The Council of Ways and Means . 
The Poet and the Editor . 
The Robber and the Burglar . 
'Lo , the Poor Indian ! . 
Our ancestral home is in the Lewisham Road . 
It is semi detached and has a garden , not a large one . 
There are six of us besides Father . 
Our Mother is dead , and if you think we don't care because I don't tell you much about her you only show that you do not understand people at all . 
Then Oswald and then Dicky . 
Oswald won the Latin prize at his preparatory school and Dicky is good at sums . 
Alice and Noel are twins they are ten , and Horace Octavius is my youngest brother . 
It is one of us that tells this story but I shall not tell you which only at the very end perhaps I will . 
While the story is going on you may be trying to guess , only I bet you don't . 
It was Oswald who first thought of looking for treasure . 
Oswald often thinks of very interesting things . 
Dora said it was all very well . 
She was trying to mend a large hole in one of Noel's stockings . 
He tore it on a nail when we were playing shipwrecked mariners on top of the chicken house the day H. O. fell off and cut his chin he has the scar still . 
Dora is the only one of us who ever tries to mend anything . 
Alice tries to make things sometimes . 
Once she knitted a red scarf for Noel because his chest is delicate , but it was much wider at one end than the other , and he wouldn't wear it . 
So we used it as a pennon , and it did very well , because most of our things are black or grey since Mother died and scarlet was a nice change . 
Father does not like you to ask for new things . 
That was one way we had of knowing that the fortunes of the ancient House of Bastable were really fallen . 
We think Father hadn't enough money to pay the silver man for taking out the dents and scratches . 
The new spoons and forks were yellowy white , and not so heavy as the old ones , and they never shone after the first day or two . 
Father was very ill after Mother died and while he was ill his business partner went to Spain and there was never much money afterwards . 
Then the servants left and there was only one , a General . 
A great deal of your comfort and happiness depends on having a good General . 
Then we left off going to school , and Father said we should go to a good school as soon as he could manage it . 
He said a holiday would do us all good . 
We thought he was right , but we wished he had told us he couldn't afford it . 
For of course we knew . 
I asked Eliza what that meant , and she kindly explained to me , and I was so sorry for Father . 
And once a long , blue paper came a policeman brought it , and we were so frightened . 
Because only cowards and snivellers cry , and my Father is the bravest man in the world . 
So you see it was time we looked for treasure and Oswald said so , and Dora said it was all very well . 
But the others agreed with Oswald . 
So we held a council . 
'We must do something , said Alice , 'because the exchequer is empty . 
She rattled the money box as she spoke , and it really did rattle because we always keep the bad sixpence in it for luck . 
'Yes but what shall we do ? said Dicky . 
'It's so jolly easy to say let's do something . 
Dicky always wants everything settled exactly . 
Father calls him the Definite Article . 
'Let's read all the books again . 
We shall get lots of ideas out of them . 
It was Noel who suggested this , but we made him shut up , because we knew well enough he only wanted to get back to his old books . 
He sold some of his poetry once and it was printed , but that does not come in this part of the story . 
Then Dicky said , 'Look here . 
We'll be quite quiet for ten minutes by the clock and each think of some way to find treasure . 
And when we've thought we'll try all the ways one after the other , beginning with the eldest . 
Well , we made it half an hour and we all sat quiet , and thought and thought . 
And I made up my mind before two minutes were over , and I saw the others had , all but Dora , who is always an awful time over everything . 
Oswald could tell the clock when he was six . 
We all stretched ourselves and began to speak at once , but Dora put up her hands to her ears and said 'One at a time , please . 
So Dora made us all sit in a row on the floor , in ages , and then she pointed at us with the finger that had the brass thimble on . 
Her silver one got lost when the last General but two went away . 
We think she must have forgotten it was Dora's and put it in her box by mistake . 
She was a very forgetful girl . 
She used to forget what she had spent money on , so that the change was never quite right . 
It wouldn't matter about not having horses , because coaches have gone out too . 
I must say I don't think she need have said that , especially before the little ones for it was when I was only four . 
But Oswald was not going to let her see he cared , so he said 'Oh , very well . 
I can think of lots of other ways . 
We could rescue an old gentleman from deadly Highwaymen . 
'There aren't any , said Dora . 
'Oh , well , it's all the same from deadly peril , then . 
Then he would turn out to be the Prince of Wales , and he would say , My noble , my cherished preserver ! Here is a million pounds a year . 
Rise up , Sir Oswald Bastable . 
But the others did not seem to think so , and it was Alice's turn to say . 
She said , 'I think we might try the divining rod . 
I'm sure I could do it . 
I've often read about it . 
You hold a stick in your hands , and when you come to where there is gold underneath the stick kicks about . 
'Oh , said Dora suddenly , 'I have an idea . 
I hope the divining rod isn't wrong . 
I believe it's wrong in the Bible . 
'So is eating pork and ducks , said Dicky . 
'You can't go by that . 
'Anyhow , we'll try the other ways first , said Dora . 
'Now , H. O. 'Let's be Bandits , said H. O. 'I dare say it's wrong but it would be fun pretending . 
'I'm sure it's wrong , said Dora . 
And Dicky said she thought everything wrong . 
She said she didn't , and Dicky was very disagreeable . 
So Oswald had to make peace , and he said 'Dora needn't play if she doesn't want to . 
And , Dicky , don't be an idiot do dry up and let's hear what Noel's idea is . 
That's the worst of it . 
The others are so jolly ready to quarrel . 
'Whichever it is , he added , 'none of you shall want for anything , though Oswald did kick me , and say I was a snivelling pig . 
'I didn't , said Oswald , 'I told you not to be . 
And Alice explained to him that that was quite the opposite of what he thought . 
So he agreed to drop it . 
Now that we don't go to school all our time is spare time . 
So I should think we could easily earn twenty pounds a week each . 
That would do us very well . 
We'll try some of the other things first , and directly we have any money we'll send for the sample and instructions . 
And I have another idea , but I must think about it before I say . 
We all said , 'Out with it what's the other idea ? But Dicky said , 'No . 
That is Dicky all over . 
He never will show you anything he's making till it's quite finished , and the same with his inmost thoughts . 
But he is pleased if you seem to want to know , so Oswald said 'Keep your silly old secret , then . 
Now , Dora , drive ahead . 
We've all said except you . 
, and said 'Let's try my way now . 
Besides , I'm the eldest , so it's only fair . 
Not any tiresome divining rod but just plain digging . 
People who dig for treasure always find it . 
And then we shall be rich and we needn't try your ways at all . 
I couldn't help wondering as we went down to the garden , why Father had never thought of digging there for treasure instead of going to his beastly office every day . 
CHAPTER DIGGING FOR TREASURE I am afraid the last chapter was rather dull . 
The best part of books is when things are happening . 
That is the best part of real things too . 
This is why I shall not tell you in this story about all the days when nothing happened . 
It would be sickening to write all that down , though of course it happens . 
I said so to Albert next door's uncle , who writes books , and he said , 'Quite right , that's what we call selection , a necessity of true art . 
And he is very clever indeed . 
I have often thought that if the people who write books for children knew a little more it would be better . 
I shall not tell you anything about us except what I should like to know about if I was reading the story and you were writing it . 
Albert's uncle says I ought to have put this in the preface , but I never read prefaces , and it is not much good writing things just for people to skip . 
I wonder other authors have never thought of this . 
Well , when we had agreed to dig for treasure we all went down into the cellar and lighted the gas . 
Oswald would have liked to dig there , but it is stone flags . 
We wasted a little time getting them dusted , because the girls wouldn't dig with spades that had cobwebs on them . 
Girls would never do for African explorers or anything like that , they are too beastly particular . 
It was no use doing the thing by halves . 
We marked out a sort of square in the mouldy part of the garden , about three yards across , and began to dig . 
But we found nothing except worms and stones and the ground was very hard . 
So we thought we'd try another part of the garden , and we found a place in the big round flower bed , where the ground was much softer . 
We thought we'd make a smaller hole to begin with , and it was much better . 
We dug and dug and dug , and it was jolly hard work ! We got very hot digging , but we found nothing . 
Presently Albert next door looked over the wall . 
Albert is always very tidy . 
He wears frilly collars and velvet knickerbockers . 
I can't think how he can bear to . 
So we said , 'Hallo ! And he said , 'What are you up to ? 'We're digging for treasure , said Alice 'an ancient parchment revealed to us the place of concealment . 
Come over and help us . 
When we have dug deep enough we shall find a great pot of red clay , full of gold and precious jewels . 
Albert next door only sniggered and said , 'What silly nonsense ! He cannot play properly at all . 
It is very strange , because he has a very nice uncle . 
Besides , it is wrong to be angry with people for not being so clever as you are yourself . 
It is not always their faults . 
So Oswald said , 'Come and dig ! Then you shall share the treasure when we've found it . 
But he said , 'I shan't I don't like digging and I'm just going in to my tea . 
'Come along and dig , there's a good boy , Alice said . 
'You can use my spade . 
Pincher worked too he is our dog and he is very good at digging . 
He digs for rats in the dustbin sometimes , and gets very dirty . 
But we love our dog , even when his face wants washing . 
'I expect we shall have to make a tunnel , Oswald said , 'to reach the rich treasure . 
So he jumped into the hole and began to dig at one side . 
At last the tunnel was nearly a yard long , and big enough to creep along to find the treasure , if only it had been a bit longer . 
Now it was Albert's turn to go in and dig , but he funked it . 
'Take your turn like a man , said Oswald nobody can say that Oswald doesn't take his turn like a man . 
So we had to make him , because it was only fair . 
'It's quite easy , Alice said . 
'You just crawl in and dig with your hands . 
Then when you come out we can scrape out what you've done , with the spades . 
You won't notice it being dark in the tunnel if you shut your eyes tight . 
We've all been in except Dora and she doesn't like worms . 
'I don't like worms neither . 
Albert next door said this but we remembered how he had picked a fat red and black worm up in his fingers and thrown it at Dora only the day before . 
So we put him in . 
You should never be afraid to own that perhaps you were mistaken but it is cowardly to do it unless you are quite sure you are in the wrong . 
'Let me go in feet first , said Albert next door . 
'I'll dig with my boots I will truly , honour bright . 
You should always try to think of these little things . 
Thinking of other people's comfort makes them like you . 
He is a horribly unlucky boy to have anything to do with . 
It was dreadful the way he cried and screamed , though he had to own it didn't hurt , only it was rather heavy and he couldn't move his legs . 
Dicky was a long time gone . 
Presently Dicky came back and Albert next door's uncle came with him . 
He has very long legs , and his hair is light and his face is brown . 
He has been to sea , but now he writes books . 
'This promises to be a protracted if agreeable task , said Albert next door's uncle , rubbing his hands and looking at the hole with Albert's head in it . 
'I will get another spade , so he fetched the big spade out of the next door garden tool shed , and began to dig his nephew out . 
'Mind you keep very still , he said , 'or I might chunk a bit out of you with the spade . 
Then after a while he said 'I confess that I am not absolutely insensible to the dramatic interest of the situation . 
I own that I should like to know how my nephew happened to be buried . 
But don't tell me if you'd rather not . 
I suppose no force was used ? 'Only moral force , said Alice . 
'Only moral force , eh ? said Albert next door's uncle . 
'Well ? 'Well , Dora said , 'I'm very sorry it happened to Albert I'd rather it had been one of us . 
It would have been my turn to go into the tunnel , only I don't like worms , so they let me off . 
You see we were digging for treasure . 
'Yes , said Alice , 'and I think we were just coming to the underground passage that leads to the secret hoard , when the tunnel fell in on Albert . 
He is so unlucky , and she sighed . 
It seems a strange place to put a handkerchief , but he had his coat and waistcoat off and I suppose he wanted the handkerchief handy . 
He told Albert next door to drop it , or he wouldn't proceed further in the matter , so Albert stopped screaming , and presently his uncle finished digging him out . 
Albert did look so funny , with his hair all dusty and his velvet suit covered with mould and his face muddy with earth and crying . 
We all said how sorry we were , but he wouldn't say a word back to us . 
He was most awfully sick to think he'd been the one buried , when it might just as well have been one of us . 
I felt myself that it was hard lines . 
'So you were digging for treasure , said Albert next door's uncle , wiping his face again with his handkerchief . 
'Well , I fear that your chances of success are small . 
I have made a careful study of the whole subject . 
What I don't know about buried treasure is not worth knowing . 
It was a half crown . 
We looked at each other , speechless with surprise and delight , like in books . 
'Well , that's lucky , at all events , said Albert next door's uncle . 
'Let's see , that's fivepence each for you . 
'It's fourpence something I can't do fractions , said Dicky 'there are seven of us , you see . 
'Oh , you count Albert as one of yourselves on this occasion , eh ? 'Of course , said Alice 'and I say , he was buried after all . 
Why shouldn't we let him have the odd somethings , and we'll have fourpence each . 
We all agreed to do this , and told Albert next door we would bring his share as soon as we could get the half crown changed . 
He cheered up a little at that , and his uncle wiped his face again he did look hot and began to put on his coat and waistcoat . 
When he had done it he stooped and picked up something . 
CHAPTER BEING DETECTIVES The next thing that happened to us was very interesting . 
It was as real as the half crowns not just pretending . 
I shall try to write it as like a real book as I can . 
I think this is most unfair to the boy at the bookstall . 
The books are written by a gentleman named Gaboriau , and Albert's uncle says they are the worst translations in the world and written in vile English . 
Of course they're not like Kipling , but they're jolly good stories . 
Only they put it into our heads to do what I am going to narrate . 
But every one else went , even the people next door not Albert's side , but the other . 
There is a big horse chestnut tree between their garden and ours , very useful for getting conkers out of and for making stuff to rub on your chilblains . 
This prevented our seeing whether the blinds were down at the back as well , but Dicky climbed to the top of the tree and looked , and they were . 
It was jolly hot weather , and very stuffy indoors we used to play a good deal in the garden . 
Albert's uncle called it the Turkish Bath . 
It is not nice to be kept from the seaside , but we know that we have much to be thankful for . 
Indeed we do , sometimes , when we are playing at things which require it . 
It was shipwrecked mariners that day , I remember , and we were all in the blanket tent . 
We had just finished eating the things we had saved , at the peril of our lives , from the st sinking vessel . 
They were rather nice things . 
And when we had finished some one said 'I should like to be a detective . 
I wish to be quite fair , but I cannot remember exactly who said it . 
Oswald thinks he said it , and Dora says it was Dicky , but Oswald is too much of a man to quarrel about a little thing like that . 
'I should like to be a detective , said perhaps it was Dicky , but I think not 'and find out strange and hidden crimes . 
I believe we could do it . 
'I shouldn't like to have anything to do with murders , said Dora 'somehow it doesn't seem safe 'And it always ends in the poor murderer being hanged , said Alice . 
We explained to her why murderers have to be hanged , but she only said , 'I don't care . 
I'm sure no one would ever do murdering twice . 
She stroked Pincher's ears , but he had gone to sleep because he knew well enough that all the suet pudding was finished . 
He is a very sensible dog . 
'You always get hold of the wrong end of the stick , Oswald said . 
'You can't choose what crimes you'll be a detective about . 
You just have to get a suspicious circumstance , and then you look for a clue and follow it up . 
Whether it turns out a murder or a missing will is just a fluke . 
'That's one way , Dicky said . 
'Another is to get a paper and find two advertisements or bits of news that fit . 
We sent H. O. for the paper at once , but we could not make any of the things fit in . 
The two best were about how some burglars broke into a place in Holloway where they made preserved tongues and invalid delicacies , and carried off a lot of them . 
And on another page there was , 'Mysterious deaths in Holloway . 
Oswald thought there was something in it , and so did Albert's uncle when we asked him , but the others thought not , so Oswald agreed to drop it . 
Besides , Holloway is a long way off . 
'Not murderers or robbers ? Dicky asked . 
'It wouldn't be murderers , she said 'but I have noticed something strange . 
Only I feel a little frightened . 
Let's ask Albert's uncle first . 
Alice is a jolly sight too fond of asking grown UP people things . 
And we all said it was tommyrot , and she was to tell us . 
'Well , promise you won't do anything without me , Alice said , and we promised . 
So Dora said she had had enough of tents , and she was going to look at the shops . 
H. O. went with her because he had twopence to spend . 
They thought it was only a game of Alice's but Oswald knew by the way she spoke . 
He can nearly always tell . 
And when people are not telling the truth Oswald generally knows by the way they look with their eyes . 
Oswald is not proud of being able to do this . 
He knows it is through no merit of his own that he is much cleverer than some people . 
When they had gone , the rest of us got closer together and said 'Now then . 
'Well , Alice said , 'you know the house next door ? The people have gone to Scarborough . 
And the house is shut up . 
But last night I saw a light in the windows . 
We asked her how and when , because her room is in the front , and she couldn't possibly have seen . 
And then she said 'I'll tell you if you boys will promise not ever to go fishing again without me . 
So we had to promise . 
Then she said 'It was last night . 
I had forgotten to feed my rabbits and I woke up and remembered it . 
And I was afraid I should find them dead in the morning , like Oswald did . 
'It wasn't my fault , Oswald said 'there was something the matter with the beasts . 
I fed them right enough . 
Alice said she didn't mean that , and she went on 'I came down into the garden , and I saw a light in the house , and dark figures moving about . 
I thought perhaps it was burglars , but Father hadn't come home , and Eliza had gone to bed , so I couldn't do anything . 
Only I thought perhaps I would tell the rest of you . 
'Why didn't you tell us this morning ? Noel asked . 
And Alice explained that she did not want to get any one into trouble , even burglars . 
'But we might watch to night , she said , 'and see if we see the light again . 
'They might have been burglars , Noel said . 
He was sucking the last bit of his macaroni . 
'You know the people next door are very grand . 
They won't know us and they go out in a real private carriage sometimes . 
And they have an At Home day , and people come in cabs . 
I daresay they have piles of plate and jewellery and rich brocades , and furs of price and things like that . 
Let us keep watch to night . 
'It's no use watching to night , Dicky said 'if it's only burglars they won't come again . 
But there are other things besides burglars that are discovered in empty houses where lights are seen moving . 
'You mean coiners , said Oswald at once . 
It was very good , and then we washed the seeds and made things with them and with pins and cotton . 
And nobody said any more about watching the house next door . 
So Oswald got Alice alone under pretence of showing her a caterpillar Dora does not like them , and she screamed and ran away when Oswald offered to show it her . 
Then Oswald explained , and Alice agreed to come and watch if she could . 
This made us later than we ought to have been , because Alice had to wait till Dora was quiet and then creep out very slowly , for fear of the boards creaking . 
The girls sleep with their room door open for fear of burglars . 
For the house next door was as dark as dark . 
Then suddenly we heard a sound it came from the gate at the end of the garden . 
All the gardens have gates they lead into a kind of lane that runs behind them . 
It is a sort of back way , very convenient when you don't want to say exactly where you are going . 
Oswald squeezed Alice's arm tight , and we all looked and the others were rather frightened because really we had not exactly expected anything to happen except perhaps a light . 
But now a muffled figure , shrouded in a dark cloak , came swiftly up the path of the next door garden . 
And we could see that under its cloak the figure carried a mysterious burden . 
The figure was dressed to look like a woman in a sailor hat . 
But the shutters were up . 
Indeed , I thought myself at first that perhaps it would be better to retire for the present , and return later with a strongly armed force . 
'It's not burglars , Alice whispered 'the mysterious Stranger was bringing things in , not taking them out . 
They must be coiners and oh , Oswald ! don't let's ! The things they coin with must hurt very much . 
Do let's go to bed ! But Dicky said he was going to see if there was a reward for finding out things like this he would like to have the reward . 
'They locked the back door , he whispered , 'I heard it go . 
There were holes at the top of the shutters the shape of hearts , and the yellow light came out through them as well as through the chinks of the shutters . 
Oswald said if Dicky went he should , because he was the eldest and Alice said , 'If any one goes it ought to be me , because I thought of it . 
At last we decided on a plan of action . 
Alice was to stay in the tree , and scream 'Murder ! if anything happened . 
Dicky and I were to get down into the next garden and take it in turns to peep . 
There was a pile of red flower pots under the window and one very large one was on the window ledge . 
So Oswald stood on the flower pot and tried to look through one of the holes . 
He did not really expect to see the coiners at their fell work , though he had pretended to when we were talking in the tree . 
But Oswald held on to the window frame and stood on tiptoe and then he saw . 
And just as she said 'I almost , Dicky pulled too hard and Oswald felt himself toppling on the giddy verge of the big flower pots . 
Putting forth all his strength our hero strove to recover his equi what's its name , but it was now lost beyond recall . 
'You've done it this time ! he said , then he fell heavily among the flower pots piled below . 
He heard them crash and rattle and crack , and then his head struck against an iron pillar used for holding up the next door veranda . 
His eyes closed and he knew no more . 
Now you will perhaps expect that at this moment Alice would have cried 'Murder ! If you think so you little know what girls are . 
And just when I fell , Albert's uncle was getting over the wall . 
The people next door did not come out to see what the row was . 
Albert's uncle did not wait for them to come out . 
Father was out , so we needn't have crept so when we were getting into the garden . 
Albert's uncle came in next day and talked to each of us separately . 
And the youngest young lady put an eye to the heart shaped hole , and then opened the shutter and said 'Well ? very crossly . 
Then Oswald said 'I am very sorry , and I beg your pardon . 
We wanted to be detectives , and we thought a gang of coiners infested your house , so we looked through your window last night . 
Then the lady frowned and then she laughed , and then she said 'So it was you tumbling into the flower pots last night ? We thought it was burglars . 
Why didn't you want people to know you were at home ? The lady got redder still , and then she laughed and said 'Never mind the reason why . 
I hope your head doesn't hurt much . 
Thank you for your nice , manly little speech . 
You've nothing to be ashamed of , at any rate . 
Then she kissed me , and I did not mind . 
And then she said , 'Run away now , dear . 
Dora wanted a new pair of scissors , and she said she was going to get them with her eight pence . 
But Alice said 'You ought to get her those , Oswald , because you know you broke the points off hers getting the marble out of the brass thimble . 
It was quite true , though I had almost forgotten it , but then it was H. O. who jammed the marble into the thimble first of all . 
So I said 'It's H. O. 's fault as much as mine , anyhow . 
Why shouldn't he pay ? Oswald didn't so much mind paying for the beastly scissors , but he hates injustice of every kind . 
'He's such a little kid , said Dicky , and of course H. O. said he wasn't a little kid , and it very nearly came to being a row between them . 
H. O. agreed he is not at all a mean kid , but I found out afterwards that Alice paid his share out of her own money . 
Then we wanted some new paints , and NoEl wanted a pencil and a halfpenny account book to write poetry with , and it does seem hard never to have any apples . 
So , somehow or other nearly all the money got spent , and we agreed that we must let the advertisement run loose a little longer . 
'I only hope , Alice said , 'that they won't have got all the ladies and gentlemen they want before we have got the money to write for the sample and instructions . 
Dora was sewing the buttons on H. O. 's Sunday things . 
He got himself a knife with his money , and he cut every single one of his best buttons off . 
You've no idea how many buttons there are on a suit . 
There are twenty four , counting the little ones on the sleeves that don't undo . 
We had made a fire on purpose , though it was rather warm . 
They are very good if you cut away the burnt parts but you ought to wash them first , or you are a dirty boy . 
'Well , what can we do ? said Dicky . 
'You are so fond of saying Let's do something ! and never saying what . 
'We can't try the advertisement yet . 
Shall we try rescuing some one ? said Oswald . 
'What was Noel's plan ? Alice asked . 
'A Princess or a poetry book , said Noel sleepily . 
He was lying on his back on the sofa , kicking his legs . 
'Only I shall look for the Princess all by myself . 
But I'll let you see her when we're married . 
But Noel told Alice he got the first line and a half from a book a boy at school was going to write when he had time . 
Besides this there were the 'Lines on a Dead Black Beetle that was poisoned' Beetle how I weep to see Thee lying on thy poor back ! It is so very sad indeed . 
You were so shiny and black . 
I wish you were alive again But Eliza says wishing it is nonsense and a shame . 
It was very good beetle poison , and there were hundreds of them lying dead but Noel only wrote a piece of poetry for one of them . 
Well , it was quite plain that there wasn't enough poetry for a book . 
'We might wait a year or two , said Noel . 
'I shall be sure to make some more some time . 
I thought of a piece about a fly this morning that knew condensed milk was sticky . 
'But we want the money now , said Dicky , 'and you can go on writing just the same . 
It will come in some time or other . 
'There's poetry in newspapers , said Alice . 
'Down , Pincher ! you'll never be a clever dog , so it's no good trying . 
'Do they pay for it ? Dicky thought of that he often thinks of things that are really important , even if they are a little dull . 
But I shouldn't think any one would let them print their poetry without . 
That was Dora but Noel said he wouldn't mind if he didn't get paid , so long as he saw his poetry printed and his name at the end . 
'We might try , anyway , said Oswald . 
He is always willing to give other people's ideas a fair trial . 
It was a full rigged schooner , and all the ropes and sails were correct because my cousin is in the Navy , and he showed me . 
We thought a long time whether we'd write a letter and send it by post with the poetry and Dora thought it would be best . 
But NoEl said he couldn't bear not to know at once if the paper would print the poetry , So we decided to take it . 
I went with Noel , because I am the eldest , and he is not old enough to go to London by himself . 
Dicky said poetry was rot and he was glad he hadn't got to make a fool of himself . 
that was because there was not enough money for him to go with us . 
H. O. couldn't come either , but he came to the station to see us off , and waved his cap and called out 'Good hunting ! as the train started . 
There was a lady in spectacles in the corner . 
She was writing with a pencil on the edges of long strips of paper that had print all down them . 
And where are you off to the Zoological Gardens to look for Bagheera ? We were pleased , too , to meet some one who knew the jungle book . 
So Oswald said 'We are going to restore the fallen fortunes of the House of Bastable and we have all thought of different ways and we're going to try them all . 
We told her all about digging for treasure , and what we meant to do . 
Then she asked to see Noel's poetry and he said he didn't like so she said , 'Look here if you'll show me yours I'll show you some of mine . 
The jolly lady read NoEl's poetry , and she said she liked it very much . 
And she thought a great deal of the picture of the Malabar . 
And then she said , 'I write serious poetry like yours myself too , but I have a piece here that I think you will like because it's about a boy . 
She gave it to us and so I can copy it down , and I will , for it shows that some grown up ladies are not so silly as others . 
I like it better than NoEl's poetry , though I told him I did not , because he looked as if he was going to cry . 
This was very wrong , for you should always speak the truth , however unhappy it makes people . 
But I did not want him crying in the railway carriage . 
There are so many things to do The things that make a man of you , If grown ups did not get so vexed And wonder what you will do next . 
I often wonder whether they Ever made up our kinds of play If they were always good as gold And only did what they were told . 
They like you best to play with tops And toys in boxes , bought in shops They do not even know the names Of really interesting games . 
They will not let you play with fire Or trip your sister up with wire , They grudge the tea tray for a drum , Or booby traps when callers come . 
They don't like fishing , and it's true You sometimes soak a suit or two They look on fireworks , though they're dry , With quite a disapproving eye . 
They do not understand the way To get the most out of your day They do not know how hunger feels Nor what you need between your meals . 
And when you're sent to bed at night , They're happy , but they're not polite . 
But Oswald , who always remembers what he is told , said 'Thank you very much , but Father told us we ought never to take anything from strangers . 
When you get home tell your Father all about it , and if he says No , you can just bring the shillings back to me . 
We had never heard of her , and she seemed much too jolly for a poet . 
We asked the way to Fleet Street , where Father says all the newspaper offices are . 
They said straight on down Ludgate Hill but it turned out to be quite another way . 
At least we didn't go straight on . 
We got to St Paul's . 
Noel WOULD go in , and we saw where Gordon was buried at least the monument . 
It is very flat , considering what a man he was . 
When we came out we walked a long way , and when we asked a policeman he said we'd better go back through Smithfield . 
They don't burn people any more there now , so it was rather dull , besides being a long way , and Noel got very tired . 
He's a peaky little chap it comes of being a poet , I think . 
We had a bun or two at different shops out of the shillings and it was quite late in the afternoon when we got to Fleet Street . 
The gas was lighted and the electric lights . 
There is a jolly Bovril sign that comes off and on in different coloured lamps . 
We went to the Daily Recorder office , and asked to see the Editor . 
It is a big office , very bright , with brass and mahogany and electric lights . 
They told us the Editor wasn't there , but at another office . 
So we went down a dirty street , to a very dull looking place . 
There was a man there inside , in a glass case , as if he was a museum , and he told us to write down our names and our business . 
So Oswald wrote OSWALD BASTABLE . 
Then we waited on the stone stairs it was very draughty . 
And the man in the glass case looked at us as if we were the museum instead of him . 
We waited a long time , and then a boy came down and said 'The Editor can't see you . 
Will you please write your business ? And he laughed . 
I wanted to punch his head . 
But Noel said , 'Yes , I'll write it if you'll give me a pen and ink , and a sheet of paper and an envelope . 
The boy said he'd better write by post . 
But Noel is a bit pig headed it's his worst fault . 
So he said 'No , I'll write it now . 
Oswald writes better than he does but Noel would do it and it took a very long time , and then it was inky . 
DEAR MR EDITOR , I want you to print my poetry and pay for it , and I am a friend of Mrs Leslie's she is a poet too . 
Your affectionate friend , NOEL BASTABLE . 
He licked the envelope a good deal , so that that boy shouldn't read it going upstairs and he wrote 'Very private' outside , and gave the letter to the boy . 
There were a lot of stairs and passages , and a queer sort of humming , hammering sound and a very funny smell . 
The boy was now very polite , and said it was the ink we smelt , and the noise was the printing machines . 
After going through a lot of cold passages we came to a door the boy opened it , and let us go in . 
He looked very tired and sleepy , as if he had got up very early in the morning but he was kind , and we liked him . 
Oswald thought he looked clever . 
Oswald is considered a judge of faces . 
However , I thought it would look duffing to be offended , so I said 'This is my brother Noel . 
Noel had turned quite pale . 
He is disgustingly like a girl in some ways . 
The Editor told us to sit down , and he took the poems from Noel , and began to read them . 
When the Editor had read the first poem it was the one about the beetle he got up and stood with his back to us . 
It was not manners but Noel thinks he did it 'to conceal his emotion , as they do in books . 
He read all the poems , and then he said 'I like your poetry very much , young man . 
I'll give you let me see how much shall I give you for it ? 'As much as ever you can , said Noel . 
'You see I want a good deal of money to restore the fallen fortunes of the house of Bastable . 
The gentleman put on some eye glasses and looked hard at us . 
'That's a good idea , said he . 
'Tell me how you came to think of it . 
And , I say , have you had any tea ? They've just sent out for mine . 
I suppose it was a very proud moment for Noel , though I did not think of that till afterwards . 
'You see I didn't write them to sell . 
'Why did you write them then ? he asked . 
Noel said he didn't know he supposed because he wanted to . 
'Art for Art's sake , eh ? said the Editor , and he seemed quite delighted , as though Noel had said something clever . 
'Well , would a guinea meet your views ? he asked . 
He went red and he went white , and then he got crimson , as if you were rubbing more and more crimson lake on a palette . 
But he didn't say a word , so Oswald had to say 'I should jolly well think so . 
Now go along home , and in about ten years you can bring me some more poetry . 
Not before see ? I'm just taking this poetry of yours because I like it very much but we don't put poetry in this paper at all . 
I shall have to put it in another paper I know of . 
'What do you put in your paper ? I asked , for Father always takes the Daily Chronicle , and I didn't know what the Recorder was like . 
We chose it because it has such a glorious office , and a clock outside lighted up . 
'Oh , news , said he , 'and dull articles , and things about Celebrities . 
If you know any Celebrities , now ? Noel asked him what Celebrities were . 
'Oh , the Queen and the Princes , and people with titles , and people who write , or sing , or act or do something clever or wicked . 
'I don't know anybody wicked , said Oswald , wishing he had known Dick Turpin , or Claude Duval , so as to be able to tell the Editor things about them . 
'But I know some one with a title Lord Tottenham . 
'The mad old Protectionist , eh ? How did you come to know him ? 'We don't know him to speak to . 
'What does he say ? The Editor had sat down again , and he was fiddling with a blue pencil . 
'Excellent descriptive touch , said the Editor . 
The Editor interrupted which is considered rude and said 'You're not romancing ? 'I beg your pardon ? said Oswald . 
'Drawing the long bow , I mean , said the Editor . 
Oswald drew himself up , and said he wasn't a liar . 
The Editor only laughed , and said romancing and lying were not at all the same only it was important to know what you were playing at . 
So Oswald accepted his apology , and went on . 
'We were hiding among the furze bushes one day , and we saw him do it . 
He took off his collar , and he put on a clean one , and he threw the other among the furze bushes . 
We picked it up afterwards , and it was a beastly paper one ! 'Thank you , said the Editor , and he got up and put his hand in his pocket . 
'That's well worth five shillings , and there they are . 
Would you like to see round the printing offices before you go home ? I pocketed my five bob , and thanked him , and I said we should like it very much . 
He called another gentleman and said something we couldn't hear . 
Then he said good bye again and all this time Noel hadn't said a word . 
But now he said , 'I've made a poem about you . 
It is called Lines to a Noble Editor . 
Shall I write it down ? The Editor gave him the blue pencil , and he sat down at the Editor's table and wrote . 
'Thank you , said the Editor . 
'I don't think I ever had a poem addressed to me before . 
I shall treasure it , I assure you . 
Then the other gentleman said something about Maecenas , and we went off to see the printing office with at least one pound seven in our pockets . 
It was good hunting , and no mistake ! But he never put Noel's poetry in the Daily Recorder . 
It was not at all amusing . 
It said a lot about Noel and me , describing us all wrong , and saying how we had tea with the Editor and all Noel's poems were in the story thing . 
I think myself the Editor seemed to make game of them , but Noel was quite pleased to see them printed so that's all right . 
It wasn't my poetry anyhow , I am glad to say . 
CHAPTER NOEL'S PRINCESS She happened quite accidentally . 
We were not looking for a Princess at all just then but Noel had said he was going to find a Princess all by himself and marry her and he really did . 
Which was rather odd , because when people say things are going to befall , very often they don't . 
It was different , of course , with the prophets of old . 
We did not get any treasure by it , except twelve chocolate drops but we might have done , and it was an adventure , anyhow . 
Greenwich Park is a jolly good place to play in , especially the parts that aren't near Greenwich . 
The parts near the Heath are first rate . 
I often wish the Park was nearer our house but I suppose a Park is a difficult thing to move . 
Sometimes we get Eliza to put lunch in a basket , and we go up to the Park . 
She always tells us to rinse out the cup at the drinking fountain , and the girls do but I always put my head under the tap and drink . 
Then you are an intrepid hunter at a mountain stream and besides , you're sure it's clean . 
Dicky does the same , and so does H. O. But Noel always drinks out of the cup . 
He says it is a golden goblet wrought by enchanted gnomes . 
The day the Princess happened was a fine , hot day , last October , and we were quite tired with the walk up to the Park . 
We always go in by the little gate at the top of Croom's Hill . 
It is the postern gate that things always happen at in stories . 
I have done it before now , but the Park keeper makes a row if he catches you . 
When we'd rested a little , Alice said 'It was a long way to the enchanted wood , but it is very nice now we are there . 
I remember Mother teaching me and Dora that , when we were quite little . 
I wish everybody's parents would teach them this useful lesson , and the same about orange peel . 
When we'd eaten everything there was , Alice whispered 'I see the white witch bear yonder among the trees ! Let's track it and slay it in its lair . 
'I am the bear , said NoEl so he crept away , and we followed him among the trees . 
Often the witch bear was out of sight , and then you didn't know where it would jump out from but sometimes we saw it , and just followed . 
'When we catch it there'll be a great fight , said Oswald 'and I shall be Count Folko of Mont Faucon . 
'I'll be Gabrielle , said Dora . 
She is the only one of us who likes doing girl's parts . 
'I'll be Sintram , said Alice 'and H. O. can be the Little Master . 
'What about Dicky ? 'Oh , I can be the Pilgrim with the bones . 
'See his white fairy fur gleaming amid yonder covert ! And I saw a bit of white too . 
It was Noel's collar , and it had come undone at the back . 
Noel wasn't anywhere about , and there was a door in the wall . 
And it was open so we went through . 
'The bear has hidden himself in these mountain fastnesses , Oswald said . 
'I will draw my good sword and after him . 
So I drew the umbrella , which Dora always will bring in case it rains , because Noel gets a cold on the chest at the least thing and we went on . 
The other side of the wall it was a stable yard , all cobble stones . 
We went through that too , on tiptoe . 
It really was an adventure . 
And there we were in a shrubbery , and we saw something white through the trees . 
Dora said it was the white bear . 
That is so like Dora . 
She always begins to take part in a play just when the rest of us are getting tired of it . 
I don't mean this unkindly , because I am very fond of Dora . 
I cannot forget how kind she was when I had bronchitis and ingratitude is a dreadful vice . 
But it is quite true . 
'It is not a bear , said Oswald and we all went on , still on tiptoe , round a twisty path and on to a lawn , and there was Noel . 
He was standing looking at a little girl she was the funniest little girl you ever saw . 
Her eyes were small and blue . 
She had on a funny black frock , with curly braid on it , and button boots that went almost up to her knees . 
Her legs were very thin . 
She was sitting in a hammock chair nursing a blue kitten not a sky blue one , of course , but the colour of a new slate pencil . 
The funny little girl looked pleased . 
'I thought at first you were a common boy , she said . 
Then she saw the rest of us and said 'Are you all Princesses and Princes too ? Of course we said 'Yes , and she said 'I am a Princess also . 
She said it very well too , exactly as if it were true . 
We were very glad , because it is so seldom you meet any children who can begin to play right off without having everything explained to them . 
And even then they will say they are going to 'pretend to be' a lion , or a witch , or a king . 
Now this little girl just said 'I am a Princess . 
Then she looked at Oswald and said , 'I fancy I've seen you at Baden . 
Of course Oswald said , 'Very likely . 
The little girl had a funny voice , and all her words were quite plain , each word by itself she didn't talk at all like we do . 
H. O. asked her what the cat's name was , and she said 'Katinka . 
Then Dicky said 'Let's get away from the windows if you play near windows some one inside generally knocks at them and says Don't . 
The Princess put down the cat very carefully and said 'I am forbidden to walk off the grass . 
'That's a pity , said Dora . 
'But I will if you like , said the Princess . 
'You mustn't do things you are forbidden to do , Dora said but Dicky showed us that there was some more grass beyond the shrubs with only a gravel path between . 
So I lifted the Princess over the gravel , so that she should be able to say she hadn't walked off the grass . 
We said we thought not , but she pulled a real silver box out of her pocket and showed us they were just flat , round chocolates . 
H. O. said she had fifty names , but Dicky is very good at figures , and he says there were only eighteen . 
When she'd done , H. O. said , 'That's jolly good ! Say it again ! and she did , but even then we couldn't remember it . 
So the Princess said , 'You are quite old enough to know your own name . 
She was very grave and serious . 
She told us that she was the fifth cousin of Queen Victoria . 
We asked who the other cousins were , but she did not seem to understand . 
She went on and said she was seven times removed . 
This little girl must have been very fond of the Queen to try so often to see her , and to have been seven times removed . 
We could see that it is considered something to be proud of but we thought it was hard on the Queen that her cousins wouldn't let her alone . 
Presently the little girl asked us where our maids and governesses were . 
We told her we hadn't any just now . 
And she said 'How pleasant ! And did you come here alone ? 'Yes , said Dora 'we came across the Heath . 
'You are very fortunate , said the little girl . 
She sat very upright on the grass , with her fat little hands in her lap . 
'I should like to go on the Heath . 
There are donkeys there , with white saddle covers . 
I should like to ride them , but my governess will not permit . 
'I'm glad we haven't a governess , H. O. said . 
'We ride the donkeys whenever we have any pennies , and once I gave the man another penny to make it gallop . 
'You are indeed fortunate ! said the Princess again , and when she looked sad the shelves on her cheeks showed more than ever . 
You could have laid a sixpence on them quite safely if you had had one . 
'Never mind , said Noel 'I've got a lot of money . 
Come out and have a ride now . 
But the little girl shook her head and said she was afraid it would not be correct . 
But at last Alice said we ought to be going . 
'Do not go yet , the little girl said . 
'At what time did they order your carriage ? 'Our carriage is a fairy one , drawn by griffins , and it comes when we wish for it , said Noel . 
The little girl looked at him very queerly , and said , 'That is out of a picture book . 
Then Noel said he thought it was about time he was married if we were to be home in time for tea . 
Then we showed her how to play cross touch , and puss in the corner , and tag . 
It was funny , she didn't know any games but battledore and shuttlecock and les graces . 
But she really began to laugh at last and not to look quite so like a doll . 
She was Puss and was running after Dicky when suddenly she stopped short and looked as if she was going to cry . 
And we looked too , and there were two prim ladies with little mouths and tight hair . 
One of them said in quite an awful voice , 'Pauline , who are these children ? and her voice was gruff with very curly R's . 
The little girl said we were Princes and Princesses which was silly , to a grown up person that is not a great friend of yours . 
Dicky took his off , too , when he saw me do it he says he did it first , but that is a mistake . 
If I were really a common boy I should say it was a lie . 
Then we all came away , and when we got outside Dora said , 'So she was really a Princess . 
Fancy a Princess living there ! 'Even Princesses have to live somewhere , said Dicky . 
'And I thought it was play . 
I wish I'd known ! I should have liked to ask her lots of things , said Alice . 
H. O. said he would have liked to ask her what she had for dinner and whether she had a crown . 
I felt , myself , we had lost a chance of finding out a great deal about kings and queens . 
I might have known such a stupid looking little girl would never have been able to pretend , as well as that . 
So we all went home across the Heath , and made dripping toast for tea . 
When we were eating it Noel said , 'I wish I could give her some ! It is very good . 
He sighed as he said it , and his mouth was very full , so we knew he was thinking of his Princess . 
He says now that she was as beautiful as the day , but we remember her quite well , and she was nothing of the kind . 
CHAPTER BEING BANDITS Noel was quite tiresome for ever so long after we found the Princess . 
So now we thought it was time to do something to rouse him from the stupor of despair , which is always done to heroes when anything baffling has occurred . 
, even by the one pound eight we got when we had the 'good hunting . 
We spent a good deal of that on presents for Father's birthday . 
He was most awfully pleased and surprised , and when he heard how Noel and Oswald had earned the money to buy the things he was more surprised still . 
Nearly all the rest of our money went to get fireworks for the Fifth of November . 
But I think crackers and squibs are a mistake . 
And the only amusing way is not allowed it is putting them in the fire . 
You see we had three good reasons for trying H. O. 's idea of restoring the fallen fortunes of our house by becoming bandits on the Fifth of November . 
We had a fourth reason as well , and that was the best reason of the lot . 
You remember Dora thought it would be wrong to be bandits . 
And the Fifth of November came while Dora was away at Stroud staying with her godmother . 
We were determined to do it while she was out of the way , because we did not think it wrong , and besides we meant to do it anyhow . 
We held a Council , of course , and laid our plans very carefully . 
We let H. O. be Captain , because it was his idea . 
Oswald was quite fair , because he let H. O. call himself Captain but Oswald is the eldest next to Dora , after all . 
We were all to go up on to the Heath . 
We were to lurk in ambush there , and waylay an unwary traveller . 
And they were quite big dogs . 
It was latish in the afternoon before we started . 
We thought we could lurk better if it was nearly dark . 
It was rather foggy , and we waited a good while beside the railings , but all the belated travellers were either grown up or else they were Board School children . 
We weren't going to get into a row with grown up people especially strangers and no true bandit would ever stoop to ask a ransom from the relations of the poor and needy . 
So we thought it better to wait . 
We saw him coming over the Heath just as we were deciding to go home to tea . 
, and he was coming back dragging his feet and sniffing . 
'Hist , an unwary traveller approaches ! whispered Oswald . 
'Muffle your horses' heads and see to the priming of your pistols , muttered Alice . 
She always will play boys' parts , and she makes Ellis cut her hair short on purpose . 
Ellis is a very obliging hairdresser . 
'Steal softly upon him , said Noel 'for lo ! 'tis dusk , and no human eyes can mark our deeds . 
So we ran out and surrounded the unwary traveller . 
it turned out to be Albert next door , and he was very frightened indeed until he saw who we were . 
'Surrender ! hissed Oswald , in a desperate sounding voice , as he caught the arm of the Unwary . 
And Albert next door said , 'All right ! I'm surrendering as hard as I can . 
You needn't pull my arm off . 
We explained to him that resistance was useless , and I think he saw that from the first . 
We held him tight by both arms , and we marched him home down the hill in a hollow square of five . 
When we got to where we live he said , 'All right , I don't want to tell you . 
You'll wish I had afterwards . 
You never saw such a guy . 
'I can see you ! said H. O. It was very rude , and Oswald told him so at once , because it is his duty as an elder brother . 
Let go of me ! But Alice told him , quite kindly , that he was not going in to his tea , but coming with us . 
'I'm not , said Albert next door 'I'm going home . 
Leave go ! I've got a bad cold . 
When he had tried to cough , he said , 'Leave go of me ! You see my cold's getting worse . 
'You should have thought of that before , said Dicky 'you're coming in with us . 
'Don't be a silly , said Noel 'you know we told you at the very beginning that resistance was useless . 
There is no disgrace in yielding . 
We are five to your one . 
By this time Eliza had opened the door , and we thought it best to take him in without any more parlaying . 
To parley with a prisoner is not done by bandits . 
Directly we got him safe into the nursery , H. O. began to jump about and say , 'Now you're a prisoner really and truly ! And Albert next door began to cry . 
I wonder he didn't begin long before but Alice fetched him one of the dried fruits we gave Father for his birthday . 
It was a green walnut . 
So he ate it and shut up . 
Then we explained his position to him , so that there should be no mistake , and he couldn't say afterwards that he had not understood . 
'There will be no violence , said Oswald he was now Captain of the Bandits , because we all know H. O. likes to be Chaplain when we play prisoners 'no violence . 
But you will be confined in a dark , subterranean dungeon where toads and snakes crawl , and but little of the light of day filters through the heavily mullioned windows . 
You will be loaded with chains . 
But Albert next door never enters into the spirit of a thing . 
He mumbled something about tea time . 
Now Oswald , though stern , is always just , and besides we were all rather hungry , and tea was ready . 
And we saved our crusts for the prisoner . 
Albert next door was very tiresome . 
Nobody could have had a nicer prison than he had . 
We fenced him into a corner with the old wire nursery fender and all the chairs , instead of putting him in the coal cellar as we had first intended . 
And when he said the dog chains were cold the girls were kind enough to warm his fetters thoroughly at the fire before we put them on him . 
We got the straw cases of some bottles of wine someone sent Father one Christmas it is some years ago , but the cases are quite good . 
We unpicked them very carefully and pulled them to pieces and scattered the straw about . 
It made a lovely straw pallet , and took ever so long to make but Albert next door has yet to learn what gratitude really is . 
And even then Albert next door couldn't be happy like the rest of us . 
He howled and cried and tried to get out , and he knocked the ewer over and stamped on the mouldering crusts . 
Luckily there was no water in the ewer because we had forgotten it , only dust and spiders . 
So we tied him up with the clothes line from the back kitchen , and we had to hurry up , which was a pity for him . 
We might have had him rescued by a devoted page if he hadn't been so tiresome . 
In fact Noel was actually dressing up for the page when Albert next door kicked over the prison ewer . 
We none of us mind pricking ourselves we've done it heaps of times . 
While Oswald was writing it he heard Alice whispering to the prisoner that it would soon be over , and it was only play . 
The prisoner left off howling , so I pretended not to hear what she said . 
A Bandit Captain has to overlook things sometimes . 
This was the letter 'Albert Morrison is held a prisoner by Bandits . 
On payment of three thousand pounds he will be restored to his sorrowing relatives , and all will be forgotten and forgiven . 
I was not sure about the last part , but Dicky was certain he had seen it in the paper , so I suppose it must have been all right . 
We let H. O. take the letter it was only fair , as it was his blood it was written with , and told him to leave it next door for Mrs Morrison . 
H. O. came back quite quickly , and Albert next door's uncle came with him . 
'What is all this , Albert ? he cried . 
'Alas , alas , my nephew ! Do I find you the prisoner of a desperate band of brigands ? 'Bandits , said H. O 'you know it says bandits . 
'I beg your pardon , gentlemen , said Albert next door's uncle , 'bandits it is , of course . 
This , Albert , is the direct result of the pursuit of the guy on an occasion when your doting mother had expressly warned you to forgo the pleasures of the chase . 
Albert said it wasn't his fault , and he hadn't wanted to play . 
'Very pretty and complete , he said . 
'Albert , you are more highly privileged than ever I was . 
No one ever made me a nice dungeon when I was your age . 
I think I had better leave you where you are . 
Albert began to cry again and said he was sorry , and he would be a good boy . 
'And on this old familiar basis you expect me to ransom you , do you ? Honestly , my nephew , I doubt whether you are worth it . 
Besides , the sum mentioned in this document strikes me as excessive Albert really is not worth three thousand pounds . 
Also by a strange and unfortunate chance I haven't the money about me . 
Couldn't you take less ? We said perhaps we could . 
'Say eightpence , suggested Albert next door's uncle , 'which is all the small change I happen to have on my person . 
'Thank you very much , said Alice as he held it out 'but are you sure you can spare it ? Because really it was only play . 
Now , Albert , the game is over . 
You had better run home to your mother and tell her how much you've enjoyed yourself . 
We roasted the chestnuts he sent Dicky out for , and he told us stories till it was nearly seven . 
His stories are first rate he does all the parts in different voices . 
At last he said 'Look here , young uns . 
I like to see you play and enjoy yourselves , and I don't think it hurts Albert to enjoy himself too . 
But if I hadn't , eh ? He only talks like that when he is very serious , or even angry . 
Other times he talks like people in books to us , I mean . 
We none of us said anything . 
Girls seem not to mind saying things that we don't say . 
She put her arms round Albert next door's uncle's neck and said 'We're very , very sorry . 
We didn't think about his mother . 
He said he thought we should not find the bandit business a paying industry , as a permanency , and that journalism might be . 
Besides our having seen a whole handful of money that the editor pulled out quite carelessly from his trousers pocket when he gave me my five bob . 
Because you've no idea what a bother it is . 
Everybody wanted to put in everything just as they liked , no matter how much room there was on the page . 
I give it up to you . 
But she didn't , and we did it together . 
We let Albert next door be sub editor , because he had hurt his foot with a nail in his boot that gathered . 
We did not think of that until too late . 
We called the paper the Lewisham Recorder Lewisham because we live there , and Recorder in memory of the good editor . 
I could write a better paper on my head , but an editor is not allowed to write all the paper . 
It is very hard , but he is not . 
You just have to fill up with what you can get from other writers . 
If I ever have time I will write a paper all by myself . 
We had no time to make it an illustrated paper , but I drew the ship going down with all hands for the first copy . 
But the typewriter can't draw ships , so it was left out in the other copies . 
The time the first paper took to write out no one would believe ! This was the Newspaper EDITORS DORA AND OSWALD BASTABLE Editorial Note Every paper is written for some reason . 
Ours is because we want to sell it and get money . 
If what we have written brings happiness to any sad heart we shall not have laboured in vain . 
But we want the money too . 
Many papers are content with the sad heart and the happiness , but we are not like that , and it is best not to be deceitful . 
There will be two serial stories One by Dicky and one by all of us . 
In a serial story you only put in one chapter at a time . 
But we shall put all our serial story at once , if Dora has time to copy it . 
Dicky's will come later on . 
Serial Story BY US ALL CHAPTER I by Dora The sun was setting behind a romantic looking tower when two strangers might have been observed descending the crest of the hill . 
The eldest , a man in the prime of life the other a handsome youth who reminded everybody of Quentin Durward . 
They approached the Castle , in which the fair Lady Alicia awaited her deliverers . 
She leaned from the castellated window and waved her lily hand as they approached . 
They returned her signal , and retired to seek rest and refreshment at a neighbouring hostelry . 
CHAPTER IV by Dicky I must now retrace my steps and tell you something about our hero . 
That was the education that made him able to fight Red Indians , and to be the stranger who might have been observed in the first chapter . 
CHAPTER V by Noel I think it's time something happened in this story . 
So the hero , whose name was Noeloninuris , replied 'My blade is sharp , my axe is keen , You're not nearly as big as a good many dragons I've seen . 
CHAPTER VI by H. O. I think it's a very nice Story but what about the mice ? I don't want to say any more . 
Dora can have what's left of my chapter . 
Then the Prince , whose real name didn't begin with N , but was Osrawalddo , waved his magic sword , and the dragon stood before them , bowing gracefully . 
They made him promise to be good , and then they forgave him and when the wedding breakfast came , all the bones were saved for him . 
And so they were married and lived happy ever after . 
This is the end of the story . 
Instructive it only takes four hours and a quarter now to get from London to Manchester but I should not think any one would if they could help it . 
A wicked boy told me a very instructive thing about ginger . 
But he told me that on the Sunday , when it was coming near the part where there is only juice generally , I had no idea what his feelings were . 
I don't see what he could have said when they asked him . 
I should be sorry to act like it . 
Scientific Experiments should always be made out of doors . 
The earth is , miles round , and through at least I think so , but perhaps it's the other way . 
Scientific Column in this so called Nineteenth Century Science is but too little considered in the nurseries of the rich and proud . 
But we are not like that . 
It is not generally known that if you put bits of camphor in luke warm water it will move about . 
If you drop sweet oil in , the camphor will dart away and then stop moving . 
But don't drop any till you are tired of it , because the camphor won't any more afterwards . 
Much amusement and instruction is lost by not knowing things like this . 
At least I can't do it myself , but my cousin can . 
He is in the Navy . 
You are very poetical , but I am sorry to say it will not do . 
Nothing will ever make your hair curl , so it's no use . 
Some people say it's more important to tidy up as you go along . 
I don't mean you in particular , but every one . 
H. O. We never said you were tubby , but the Editor does not know any cure . 
H. O. There are many ways how your steam engine might stop working . 
He knows one of them . 
I think it is the way yours stopped . 
If you think that by filling the garden with sand you can make crabs build their nests there you are not at all sensible . 
You have altered your poem about the battle of Waterloo so often , that we cannot read it except where the Duke waves his sword and says some thing we can't read either . 
Why did you write it on blotting paper with purple chalk ? ED . 
Curious Facts If you hold a guinea pig up by his tail his eyes drop out . 
You can't do half the things yourself that children in books do , making models or soon . 
I wonder why ? ALICE . 
If you take a date's stone out and put in an almond and eat them together , it is prime . 
If you put your wet hand into boiling lead it will not hurt you if you draw it out quickly enough . 
I have never tried this . 
If I ever keep a school everything shall be quite different . 
Nobody shall learn anything they don't want to . 
And sometimes instead of having masters and mistresses we will have cats , and we will dress up in cat skins and learn purring . 
'Now , my dears , the old cat will say , one , two , three all purr together , and we shall purr like anything . 
She won't teach us to mew , but we shall know how without teaching . 
Children do know some things without being taught . 
Quand j'etais jeune et j'etais fou J'achetai un violon pour dix huit sous Et tous les airs que je jouai Etait over the hills and far away . 
ANOTHER PIECE OF IT Mercie jolie vache qui fait Bon lait pour mon dejeuner Tous les matins tous les soirs Mon pain je mange , ton lait je boire . 
Recreations It is a mistake to think that cats are playful . 
I often try to get a cat to play with me , and she never seems to care about the game , no matter how little it hurts . 
H. O. Making pots and pans with clay is fun , but do not tell the grown ups . 
It is better to surprise them and then you must say at once how easily it washes off much easier than ink . 
'Sam Redfern the Bushranger is about this part of the Bush just now . 
I hope he will not attack us with his gang . 
'I hope not , responded Annie , a gentle maiden of some sixteen summers . 
just then came a knock at the door of the hut , and a gruff voice asked them to open the door . 
'It is Sam Redfern the Bushranger , father , said the girl . 
'The same , responded the voice , and the next moment the hall door was smashed in , and Sam Redfern sprang in , followed by his gang . 
CHAPTER II Annie's Father was at once overpowered , and Annie herself lay bound with cords on the drawing room sofa . 
Sam Redfern set a guard round the lonely hut , and all human aid was despaired of . 
Far away in the Bush a different scene was being enacted . 
'Must be Injuns , said a tall man to himself as he pushed his way through the brushwood . 
It was Jim Carlton , the celebrated detective . 
'I know them , he added 'they are Apaches . 
just then ten Indians in full war paint appeared . 
CHAPTER III The moon was low on the horizon , and Sam Redfern was seated at a drinking bout with some of his boon companions . 
They had rifled the cellars of the hut , and the rich wines flowed like water in the golden goblets of Mr Ridgway . 
'Ha ! ha ! cried Redfern , 'now I am enjoying myself ! He little knew that his doom was near upon him . 
Just then Annie gave a piercing scream , and Sam Redfern got up , seizing his revolver . 
'Who are you ? he cried , as a man entered . 
'I am Jim Carlton , the celebrated detective , said the new arrival . 
Scholastic A new slate is horrid till it is washed in milk . 
I like the green spots on them to draw patterns round . 
I know a good way to make a slate pencil squeak , but I won't put it in because I don't want to make it common . 
Peppermint is a great help with arithmetic . 
The boy who was second in the Oxford Local always did it . 
The examiner said to him , 'Are you eating peppermints ? And he said , 'No , Sir . 
He told me afterwards it was quite true , because he was only sucking one . 
I'm glad I wasn't asked . 
I should never have thought of that , and I could have had to say 'Yes . 
He isn't really but he put it in to make it seem more real . 
Hark ! what is that noise of rolling Waves and thunder in the air ? 'Tis the death knell of the sailors And officers and passengers of the good ship Malabar . 
It was a fair and lovely noon When the good ship put out of port And people said 'ah little we think How soon she will be the elements' sport . 
She was indeed a lovely sight Upon the billows with sails spread . 
Alas in vain the loud winds roared And nobody was saved . 
That was the wreck of the Malabar , Then let us toll for the brave . 
Seeds and Bulbs These are useful to play at shop with , until you are ready . 
Not at dinner parties , for they will not grow unless uncooked . 
Potatoes are not grown with seed , but with chopped up potatoes . 
Apple trees are grown from twigs , which is less wasteful . 
Oak trees come from acorns . 
A boy once dared me to eat a bulb . 
Dogs are very industrious and fond of gardening . 
Pincher is always planting bones , but they never grow up . 
There couldn't be a bone tree . 
I think this is what makes him bark so unhappily at night . 
He has never tried planting dog biscuit , but he is fonder of bones , and perhaps he wants to be quite sure about them first . 
But now I have forgotten how I meant it to end , and I have lost my book about Red Indians , and all my Boys of England have been sneaked . 
The girls say 'Good riddance ! so I expect they did it . 
They want me just to put in which Annie married , but I shan't , so they will never know . 
We have now put everything we can think of into the paper . 
It takes a lot of thinking about . 
I don't know how grown ups manage to write all they do . 
It must make their heads ache , especially lesson books . 
Albert next door only wrote one chapter of the serial story , but he could have done some more if he had wanted to . 
He could not write out any of the things because he cannot spell . 
He says he can , but it takes him such a long time he might just as well not be able . 
There are one or two things more . 
I am sick of it , but Dora says she will write them in . 
A quantity of excellent string is offered if you know whether there really is a law passed about not buying gunpowder under thirteen . 
The price of this paper is one shilling each , and sixpence extra for the picture of the Malabar going down with all hands . 
If we sell one hundred copies we will write another paper . 
And so we would have done , but we never did . 
Albert next door's uncle gave us two shillings , that was all . 
You can't restore fallen fortunes with two shillings ! CHAPTER THE G. B. Being editors is not the best way to wealth . 
We all feel this now , and highwaymen are not respected any more like they used to be . 
I am sure we had tried our best to restore our fallen fortunes . 
We felt their fall very much , because we knew the Bastables had been rich once . 
They were called prunes , but the prunes you buy at the grocer's are quite different . 
But now there is seldom anything nice brought from London , and the turkey and the prune people have forgotten Father's address . 
'How can we restore those beastly fallen fortunes ? said Oswald . 
'We've tried digging and writing and princesses and being editors . 
'And being bandits , said H. O. 'When did you try that ? asked Dora quickly . 
'You know I told you it was wrong . 
'We only caught Albert next door . 
She does that a jolly sight too often . 
Dicky looked up from the paper he was reading and said , 'This sounds likely , and he read out l secures partnership in lucrative business for sale of useful patent . 
Jobbins , , Old Street Road . 
'I wish we could secure that partnership , said Oswald . 
He is twelve , and a very thoughtful boy for his age . 
Alice looked up from her painting . 
She was trying to paint a fairy queen's frock with green bice , and it wouldn't rub . 
There is something funny about green bice . 
It never will rub off no matter how expensive your paintbox is and even boiling water is very little use . 
She said , 'Bother the bice ! And , Oswald , it's no use thinking about that . 
Noel sat sucking his pencil he had been writing poetry as usual . 
I saw the first two lines I wonder why Green Bice Is never very nice . 
Suddenly he said , 'I wish a fairy would come down the chimney and drop a jewel on the table a jewel worth just a hundred pounds . 
'She might as well give you the hundred pounds while she was about it , said Dora . 
'Or while she was about it she might as well give us five pounds a week , said Alice . 
'Or fifty , said I. 'Or five hundred , said Dicky . 
Five pounds a week would buy a great many things . 
Advances cash from l to l , on ladies' or gentlemen's note of hand alone , without security . 
And H. O. said he was a Generous Benefactor , like in Miss Edgeworth . 
'No inquiries ! said Alice . 
'Oh Dicky do you think he would ? 'Yes , I think so , said Dicky . 
'I wonder Father doesn't go to this kind gentleman . 
I've seen his name before on a circular in Father's study . 
But the rest of us were sure he hadn't , because , of course , if he had , there would have been more money to buy nice things . 
just then Pincher jumped up and knocked over the painting water . 
He is a very careless dog . 
So we played at the plague for a bit , and I was an Arab physician with a bath towel turban , and cured the plague with magic acid drops . 
After that it was time for dinner , and after dinner we talked it all over and settled that we would go and see the Generous Benefactor the very next day . 
But we thought perhaps the G. B. it is short for Generous Benefactor would not like it if there were so many of us . 
I have often noticed that it is the worst of our being six people think six a great many , when it's children . 
That sentence looks wrong somehow . 
Of course Dicky was to go , because it was his idea . 
Dora had to go to Blackheath to see an old lady , a friend of Father's , so she couldn't go . 
Alice said she ought to go , because it said , 'Ladies and gentlemen , and perhaps the G. B. wouldn't let us have the money unless there were both kinds of us . 
H. O. said Alice wasn't a lady and she said he wasn't going , anyway . 
Then he called her a disagreeable cat , and she began to cry . 
At first we thought we'd tear our oldest things a bit more , and put some patches of different colours on them , to show the G. B. how much we wanted money . 
But Dora said that would be a sort of cheating , pretending we were poorer than we are . 
And Dora is right sometimes , though she is our elder sister . 
But Dora said that would be wrong too . 
We rang a bell and a boy opened the door and we asked for Mr Rosenbaum . 
The boy was not polite he did not ask us in . 
So then Dicky gave him his visiting card it was one of Father's really , but the name is the same , Mr Richard Bastable , and we others wrote our names underneath . 
I happened to have a piece of pink chalk in my pocket and we wrote them with that . 
Then the boy shut the door in our faces and we waited on the step . 
But presently he came down and asked our business . 
It was a beautiful room . 
I wished then we had put on our best things , or at least washed a little . 
But it was too late now . 
The room had velvet curtains and a soft , soft carpet , and it was full of the most splendid things . 
Black and gold cabinets , and china , and statues , and pictures . 
There was a picture of a cabbage and a pheasant and a dead hare that was just like life , and I would have given worlds to have it for my own . 
The fur was so natural I should never have been tired of looking at it but Alice liked the one of the girl with the broken jug best . 
Then besides the pictures there were clocks and candlesticks and vases , and gilt looking glasses , and boxes of cigars and scent and things littered all over the chairs and tables . 
And he put on a pair of gold spectacles and looked at us as if he knew exactly how much our clothes were worth . 
He said 'Are you the G. B. ? 'The what ? said the little old gentleman . 
'The G. B. , said H. O. , and I winked at him to shut up , but he didn't see me , and the G. B. did . 
He waved his hand at me to shut up , so I had to , and H. O. went on 'It stands for Generous Benefactor . 
Then he said , 'Your Father sent you here , I suppose ? 'No he didn't , said Dicky . 
'Why did you think so ? The old gentleman held out the card , and I explained that we took that because Father's name happens to be the same as Dicky's . 
'Hum ! said the G. B. 'Sit down . 
He cleared the clocks and vases and candlesticks off some of the chairs , and we sat down . 
The chairs were velvety , with gilt legs . 
It was like a king's palace . 
'Now , he said , 'you ought to be at school , instead of thinking about money . 
And we said we thought the lucrative patent would be a very good thing . 
He asked a lot of questions , and we told him everything we didn't think Father would mind our telling , and at last he said 'You wish to borrow money . 
When will you repay it ? 'As soon as we've got it , of course , Dicky said . 
Then the G. B. said to Oswald , 'You seem the eldest , but I explained to him that it was Dicky's idea , so my being eldest didn't matter . 
'Minor , not miner , said the G. B. 'I mean you're not of age ? 'I shall be in ten years , though , said Dicky . 
'Then you might repudiate the loan , said the G. B. , and Dicky said 'What ? Of course he ought to have said 'I beg your pardon . 
I didn't quite catch what you said' that is what Oswald would have said . 
It is more polite than 'What . 
'Repudiate the loan , the G. B repeated . 
'I mean you might say you would not pay me back the money , and the law could not compel you to do so . 
'Oh , well , if you think we're such sneaks , said Dicky , and he got up off his chair . 
But the G. B. said , 'Sit down , sit down I was only joking . 
Then he talked some more , and at last he said 'I don't advise you to enter into that partnership . 
And I have not a hundred pounds by me to day to lend you . 
But I will lend you a pound , and you can spend it as you like . 
And when you are twenty one you shall pay me back . 
'I shall pay you back long before that , said Dicky . 
'Thanks , awfully ! And what about the note of hand ? 'Oh , said the G. B. , 'I'll trust to your honour . 
Between gentlemen , you know and ladies' he made a beautiful bow to Alice 'a word is as good as a bond . 
Then he took out a sovereign , and held it in his hand while he talked to us . 
And all the time he was stroking the sovereign and looking at it as if he thought it very beautiful . 
And so it was , for it was a new one . 
Then at last he held it out to Dicky , and when Dicky put out his hand for it the G. B. suddenly put the sovereign back in his pocket . 
'No , he said , 'I won't give you the sovereign . 
I'll give you fifteen shillings , and this nice bottle of scent . 
It's worth far more than the five shillings I'm charging you for it . 
And , when you can , you shall pay me back the pound , and sixty per cent interest sixty per cent , sixty per cent . 
'What's that ? said H. O. The G. B. said he'd tell us that when we paid back the sovereign , but sixty per cent was nothing to be afraid of . 
He gave Dicky the money . 
The G. B. paid the cabman and told him what station to go to , and so we went home . 
That evening Father had a letter by the seven o'clock post . 
And when he had read it he came up into the nursery . 
He did not look quite so unhappy as usual , but he looked grave . 
'You've been to Mr Rosenbaum's , he said . 
So we told him all about it . 
It took a long time , and Father sat in the armchair . 
He doesn't often come and talk to us now . 
He has to spend all his time thinking about his business . 
And when we'd told him all about it he said 'You haven't done any harm this time , children rather good than harm , indeed . 
Mr Rosenbaum has written me a very kind letter . 
'Is he a friend of yours , Father ? Oswald asked . 
'He is an acquaintance , said my father , frowning a little , 'we have done some business together . 
Father said , 'I haven't much time to be with you , for my business takes most of my time . 
It is an anxious business but I can't bear to think of your being left all alone like this . 
He looked so sad we all said we liked being alone . 
And then he looked sadder than ever . 
Then Alice said , 'We don't mean that exactly , Father . 
It is rather lonely sometimes , since Mother died . 
Then we were all quiet a little while . 
Father stayed with us till we went to bed , and when he said good night he looked quite cheerful . 
So we told him so , and he said 'Well , the fact is , that letter took a weight off my mind . 
I can't think what he meant but I am sure the G. B. would be pleased if he could know he had taken a weight off somebody's mind . 
He is that sort of man , I think . 
We gave the scent to Dora . 
You do not notice your general fortune so much , as long as you have money in your pocket . 
This is why so many children with regular pocket money have never felt it their duty to seek for treasure . 
So , perhaps , our not having pocket money was a blessing in disguise . 
But the disguise was quite impenetrable , like the villains' in the books and it seemed still more so when the fifteen shillings were all spent . 
But Oswald knew that a hero must rely on himself alone . 
So he stuck to it , and presently the others saw their duty , and backed him up . 
CHAPTER LORD TOTTENHAM Oswald is a boy of firm and unswerving character , and he had never wavered from his first idea . 
He felt quite certain that the books were right , and that the best way to restore fallen fortunes was to rescue an old gentleman in distress . 
The others , as I said , were very slack about it , and did not seem to care much about trying the rescue . 
They said there wasn't any deadly peril , and we should have to make one before we could rescue the old gentleman from it , but Oswald didn't see that that mattered . 
However , he thought he would try some of the easier ways first , by himself . 
So he waited about the station , pulling up railway carriage windows for old gentlemen who looked likely but nothing happened , and at last the porters said he was a nuisance . 
So that was no go . 
It would have been very unpleasant for Oswald if he hadn't happened to be a very brave boy , and knew the policeman on that beat very well indeed . 
So the policeman backed him up , and the old gentleman said he was sorry , and offered Oswald sixpence . 
Oswald refused it with polite disdain , and nothing more happened at all . 
Come buck up ! Do let's do something ! It was dinner time , and Pincher was going round getting the bits off the plates . 
There were plenty because it was cold mutton day . 
And Alice said 'It's only fair to try Oswald's way he has tried all the things the others thought of . 
Dicky said , 'Lord Tottenham's all right but where's the deadly peril ? And we couldn't think of any . 
There are no highwaymen on Blackheath now , I am sorry to say . 
Then Alice said , 'What about Pincher ? And we all saw at once that it could be done . 
Pincher is very well bred , and he does know one or two things , though we never could teach him to beg . 
But if you tell him to hold on he will do it , even if you only say 'Seize him ! in a whisper . 
So we arranged it all . 
And he would say , 'How can I reward you , my noble young preservers ? and it would be all right . 
So we went up to the Heath . 
We were afraid of being late . 
Oswald told the others what Procrastination was so they got to the furze bushes a little after two o'clock , and it was rather cold . 
Alice and H. O. and Pincher hid , but Pincher did not like it any more than they did , and as we three walked up and down we heard him whining . 
And Alice kept saying , 'I am so cold ! Isn't he coming yet ? And H. O. wanted to come out and jump about to warm himself . 
But we told him he must learn to be a Spartan boy , and that he ought to be very thankful he hadn't got a beastly fox eating his inside all the time . 
H. O. is our little brother , and we are not going to let it be our fault if he grows up a milksop . 
Besides , it was not really cold . 
It was his knees he wears socks . 
So they stayed where they were . 
So we said to Alice 'Hist ! he approaches . 
You'll know when to set Pincher on by hearing Lord Tottenham talking to himself he always does while he is taking off his collar . 
Then we three walked slowly away whistling to show we were not thinking of anything . 
Our lips were rather cold , but we managed to do it . 
Lord Tottenham came striding along , talking to himself . 
People call him the mad Protectionist . 
I don't know what it means but I don't think people ought to call a Lord such names . 
Pincher was growling and snarling and holding on . 
When we got to him I stopped and said 'Dicky , we must rescue this good old man . 
Lord Tottenham roared in his fury , 'Good old man be something or othered . 
He was dancing about in the road with Pincher hanging on like grim death and his collar flapping about , where it was undone . 
Then Noel said , 'Haste , ere yet it be too late . 
So I said to Lord Tottenham 'Stand still , aged sir , and I will endeavour to alleviate your distress . 
Nasty vicious brute ! Here's something to drink my health . 
But Dicky explained that we are teetotallers , and do not drink people's healths . 
So Lord Tottenham said , 'Well , I'm much obliged any way . 
It was very silly but now we'd done it I felt it would be beastly mean to take the old boy's chink after putting him in such a funk . 
He didn't say anything about bringing us up as his own sons so I didn't know what to do . 
Directly I let him go he began to jump about at us and bark for joy , and try to lick our faces . 
He was so proud of what he'd done . 
Lord Tottenham opened his eyes and he just said , 'The dog seems to know you . 
And then Oswald saw it was all up , and he said , 'Good morning , and tried to get away . 
But Lord Tottenham said 'Not so fast ! And he caught Noel by the collar . 
Noel gave a howl , and Alice ran out from the bushes . 
I'm sure I don't know why . 
Lord Tottenham looked at her , and he said So there are more of you ! And then H. O. came out . 
'Do you complete the party ? Lord Tottenham asked him . 
And H. O. said there were only five of us this time . 
Lord Tottenham turned sharp off and began to walk away , holding Noel by the collar . 
We caught up with him , and asked him where he was going , and he said , 'To the Police Station . 
So then I said quite politely , 'Well , don't take Noel he's not strong , and he easily gets upset . 
Besides , it wasn't his doing . 
If you want to take any one take me it was my very own idea . 
He said , 'If you take Oswald I'll go too , but don't take Noel he's such a delicate little chap . 
Lord Tottenham stopped , and he said , 'You should have thought of that before . 
Oh , I wish we'd never done it ! Dora said it was wrong . 
'Dora displayed considerable common sense , said Lord Tottenham , and he let Noel go . 
And Alice put her arm round Noel and tried to cheer him up , but he was all trembly , and as white as paper . 
Then Lord Tottenham said 'Will you give me your word of honour not to try to escape ? So we said we would . 
'Then follow me , he said , and led the way to a bench . 
We all followed , and Pincher too , with his tail between his legs he knew something was wrong . 
Then Lord Tottenham sat down , and he made Oswald and Dicky and H. O. stand in front of him , but he let Alice and NoEl sit down . 
And he said 'You set your dog on me , and you tried to make me believe you were saving me from it . 
And you would have taken my half sovereign . 
Such conduct is most No you shall tell me what it is , sir , and speak the truth . 
So I had to say it was most ungentlemanly , but I said I hadn't been going to take the half sovereign . 
'Then what did you do it for ? he asked . 
So I said , 'I see now it was very silly , and Dora said it was wrong , but it didn't seem so till we did it . 
Lord Tottenham said 'A very nice way to make your fortune by deceit and trickery . 
I have a horror of dogs . 
If I'd been a weak man the shock might have killed me . 
Let this be a lesson to you and we'll say no more about it . 
I'm an old man now , but I was young once . 
But we wanted to be like the children in the books only we never have the chances they have . 
Everything they do turns out all right . 
But we are sorry , very , very . 
And I know Oswald wasn't going to take the half sovereign . 
Directly you said that about a tip from an old boy I began to feel bad inside , and I whispered to H. O. that I wished we hadn't . 
And we promised we would remember . 
Then he took off his hat , and we took off ours , and he went away , and we went home . 
It was what Lord Tottenham had said about ungentlemanly . 
We didn't go on to the Heath for a week after that but at last we all went , and we waited for him by the bench . 
When he came along Alice said , 'Please , Lord Tottenham , we have not been on the Heath for a week , to be a punishment because you let us off . 
And we have brought you a present each if you will take them to show you are willing to make it up . 
He sat down on the bench , and we gave him our presents . 
Oswald gave him a sixpenny compass he bought it with my own money on purpose to give him . 
Oswald always buys useful presents . 
Alice had made him a shaving case , with a rose worked on it . 
And H. O. gave him his knife the same one he once cut all the buttons off his best suit with . 
We are so sorry with grief and pain We never will be so ungentlemanly again . 
Lord Tottenham seemed very pleased . 
He thanked us , and talked to us for a bit , and when he said good bye he said 'All's fair weather now , mates , and shook hands . 
Because it might easily have happened to us never to have half a crown again . 
We had seen the advertisement in the paper , and we had always wanted to do it , but we had never had the money to spare before , somehow . 
The advertisement says 'Any lady or gentleman can easily earn two pounds a week in their spare time . 
Sample and instructions , two shillings . 
A good deal of the half crown was Dora's . 
NoEl was playing admirals in it , but he had made the cocked hat without tearing the paper , and we found the advertisement , and it said just the same as ever . 
So we got a two shilling postal order and a stamp , and what was left of the money it was agreed we would spend in ginger beer to drink success to trade . 
Then we drank the ginger beer , and then we waited for the sample and instructions . 
It seemed a long time coming , and the postman got quite tired of us running out and stopping him in the street to ask if it had come . 
But on the third morning it came . 
It was quite a large parcel , and it was packed , as the advertisement said it would be , 'free from observation . 
'I don't know , said Alice 'I believe I could . 
They all looked rather down in the mouth , though , and Oswald asked how you were to make your two pounds a week . 
'Why , you've got to get people to taste that stuff in the bottle . 
I don't think we shall sell as much as that , said Dicky . 
'We might not the first week , Alice said , 'but when people found out how nice it was , they would want more and more . 
The cork broke a good deal , and some of the bits went into the bottle . 
Dora got the medicine glass that has the teaspoons and tablespoons marked on it , and we agreed to have a teaspoonful each , to see what it was like . 
'No one must have more than that , Dora said , 'however nice it is . 
Dora behaved rather as if it were her bottle . 
I suppose it was , because she had lent the money for it . 
Then she measured Out the teaspoonful , and she had first go , because of being the eldest . 
We asked at once what it was like , but Dora could not speak just then . 
Then she said , 'It's like the tonic Noel had in the spring but perhaps sherry ought to be like that . 
Then it was Oswald's turn . 
He thought it was very burny but he said nothing . 
He wanted to see first what the others would say . 
Dicky said his was simply beastly , and Alice said Noel could taste next if he liked . 
Noel said it was the golden wine of the gods , but he had to put his handkerchief up to his mouth all the same , and I saw the face he made . 
Then H. O. had his , and he spat it out in the fire , which was very rude and nasty , and we told him so . 
Then it was Alice's turn . 
She said , 'Only half a tea spoonful for me , Dora . 
We mustn't use it all up . 
And she tasted it and said nothing . 
Then Dicky said 'Look here , I chuck this . 
I'm not going to hawk round such beastly stuff . 
Any one who likes can have the bottle . 
Quis ? And Alice got out 'Ego' before the rest of us . 
Then she said , 'I know what's the matter with it . 
And at once we all saw that that was all there was the matter with the stuff . 
'You see it's all right when you get used to it , Dicky said . 
I think he was sorry he had said 'Quis ? in such a hurry . 
'Of course , Alice said , 'it's rather dusty . 
We must crush the sugar carefully in clean paper before we put it in the bottle . 
'You see , she said , 'I shall just tell them , quite truthfully , what we have done to it , and when their dozens come they can do it for themselves . 
We made Pincher have a taste , and he sneezed for ever so long , and after that he used to go under the sofa whenever we showed him the bottle . 
Then we asked Alice who she would try and sell it to . 
She said 'I shall ask everybody who comes to the house . 
And while we are doing that , we can be thinking of outside people to take it to . 
We must be careful there's not much more than half of it left , even counting the sugar . 
We did not wish to tell Eliza I don't know why . 
But about five Eliza slipped out for half an hour to see a friend who was making her a hat for Sunday , and while she was gone there was a knock . 
Alice went , and we looked over the banisters . 
When she opened the door , she said at once , 'Will you walk in , please ? The person at the door said , 'I called to see your Pa , miss . 
Then Alice shut the front door , and we saw that it was the butcher , with an envelope in his hand . 
He was not dressed in blue , like when he is cutting up the sheep and things in the shop , and he wore knickerbockers . 
Alice says he came on a bicycle . 
She led the way into the dining room , where the Castilian Amoroso bottle and the medicine glass were standIng on the table all ready . 
The others stayed on the stairs , but Oswald crept down and looked through the door crack . 
'Please sit down , said Alice quite calmly , though she told me afterwards I had no idea how silly she felt . 
And the butcher sat down . 
Then Alice stood quite still and said nothing , but she fiddled with the medicine glass and put the screw of brown paper straight in the Castilian bottle . 
'Will you tell your Pa I'd like a word with him ? the butcher said , when he got tired of saying nothing . 
'He'll be in very soon , I think , Alice said . 
And then she stood still again and said nothing . 
It was beginning to look very idiotic of her , and H. O. laughed . 
I went back and cuffed him for it quite quietly , and I don't think the butcher heard . 
But Alice did , and it roused her from her stupor . 
She spoke suddenly , very fast indeed so fast that I knew she had made up what she was going to say before . 
She had got most of it out of the circular . 
She said , 'I want to call your attention to a sample of sherry wine I have here . 
It is called Castilian something or other , and at the price it is unequalled for flavour and bouquet . 
The butcher said , 'Well I never ! And Alice went on , 'Would you like to taste it ? 'Thank you very much , I'm sure , miss , said the butcher . 
The butcher tasted a very little . 
He licked his lips , and we thought he was going to say how good it was . 
and said , 'Excuse me , miss , but isn't it a little sweet ? for sherry I mean ? 'The real isn't , said Alice . 
'If you order a dozen it will come quite different to that we like it best with sugar . 
I wish you would order some . 
It's called a purr something . 
Yes , I see , said the butcher , looking at the hole in the carpet . 
'You see there are reasons , Alice went on , 'why we want to make our fortunes as quickly as we can . 
'Quite so , said the butcher , and he looked at the place where the paper is coming off the wall . 
'And this seems a good way , Alice went on . 
'We paid two shillings for the sample and instructions , and it says you can make two pounds a week easily in your leisure time . 
'I'm sure I hope you may , miss , said the butcher . 
And Alice said again would he buy some ? 'Sherry is my favourite wine , he said . 
Alice asked him to have some more to drink . 
'No , thank you , miss , he said 'it's my favourite wine , but it doesn't agree with me not the least bit . 
But I've an uncle drinks it . 
'But I thought the wine people paid that , Alice said . 
But the butcher said not on half dozens they didn't . 
And all the evening we talked of our fortune that we had begun to make . 
Nobody came next day , but the day after a lady came to ask for money to build an orphanage for the children of dead sailors . 
I went in with Alice . 
We gave her a tablespoonful of the wine in a proper wine glass out of the sideboard , because she was a lady . 
You dreadful little girl ! you might have poisoned me . 
Then Alice said , 'I'm very sorry the butcher liked it , only he said it was sweet . 
And please don't write to Mother . 
It makes Father so unhappy when letters come for her ! and Alice was very near crying . 
'What do you mean , you silly child ? said the lady , looking quite bright and interested . 
'Why doesn't your Father like your Mother to have letters eh ? And Alice said , 'Oh , you . 
! 'and began to cry , and bolted out of the room . 
Never mind about the wine . 
I daresay your little sister meant it kindly . 
And she looked round the room just like the butcher had done . 
Then she said again , 'I didn't know I'm very sorry . 
So I said , 'Don't mention it , and shook hands with her , and let her out . 
Of course we couldn't have asked her to buy the wine after what she'd said . 
But I think she was not a bad sort of person . 
I do like a person to say they're sorry when they ought to be especially a grown up . 
They do it so seldom . 
I suppose that's why we think so much of it . 
But Alice and I didn't feel jolly for ever so long afterwards . 
I am glad I am not made to think about it every day . 
It was another clergyman , just a stray one and he asked Eliza if the dear children would not like to come to his little Sunday school . 
We always spend Sunday afternoons with Father . 
'I won't go unless you all go too , Alice said , 'and I won't do the talking . 
Dora said she thought we had much better not go but we said 'Rot ! and it ended in her coming with us , and I am glad she did . 
Oswald said he would do the talking if the others liked , and he learned up what to say from the printed papers . 
We went to the Vicarage early on Saturday afternoon , and rang at the bell . 
It is a new red house with no trees in the garden , only very yellow mould and gravel . 
It was all very neat and dry . 
Just before we rang the bell we heard some one inside call 'Jane ! Jane ! and we thought we would not be Jane for anything . 
It was the sound of the voice that called that made us sorry for her . 
Her face was red , and I think she was Jane . 
We asked if we could see Mr Mallow . 
The servant said Mr Mallow was very busy with his sermon just then , but she would see . 
But Oswald said , 'It's all right . 
He asked us to come . 
And Mr Mallow was writing at a desk with drawers , copying something out of a book . 
He was stout and short , and wore spectacles . 
He covered his writing up when we went in I didn't know why . 
He looked rather cross , and we heard Jane or somebody being scolded outside by the voice . 
I hope it wasn't for letting us in , but I have had doubts . 
'Well , said the clergyman , 'what is all this about ? 'You asked us to call , Dora said , 'about your little Sunday school . 
We are the Bastables of Lewisham Road . 
But some of us did . 
'We always spend Sunday afternoon with Father , said Dora 'but we wished to thank you for being so kind as to ask us . 
'And we wished to ask you something else ! said Oswald and he made a sign to Alice to get the sherry ready in the glass . 
She did behind Oswald's back while he was speaking . 
What is it you want ? Then Oswald quickly took the glass from Alice , and held it out to him , and said , 'I want your opinion on that . 
'On that , he said . 
'What is it ? 'It is a shipment , Oswald said 'but it's quite enough for you to taste . 
Alice had filled the glass half full I suppose she was too excited to measure properly . 
'A shipment ? said the clergyman , taking the glass in his hand . 
'Yes , Oswald went On 'an exceptional opportunity . 
'It really does taste rather like one kind of Brazil nut . 
Alice put her oar in as usual . 
The Vicar looked from Alice to Oswald , and back again , and Oswald went on with what he had learned from the printing . 
The clergyman held the glass at half arm's length , stiffly , as if he had caught cold . 
'It is of a quality never before offered at the price . 
Old Delicate Amoro what's its name 'Amorolio , said H. O. 'Amoroso , said Oswald . 
O. , you just shut up Castilian Amoroso it's a true after dinner wine , stimulating and yet . 
'Wine ? 'said Mr Mallow , holding the glass further off . 
We have each had more than a teaspoonful of it , and we were not ill at all . 
It was something else that upset H. O. Most likely all those acorns he got out of the Park . 
The clergyman seemed to be speechless with conflicting emotions , and just then the door opened and a lady came in . 
She had a white cap with lace , and an ugly violet flower in it , and she was tall , and looked very strong , though thin . 
And I do believe she had been listening at the door . 
'In books the parson loves his bottle of old port and new sherry is just as good with sugar for people who like sherry . 
And if you would order a dozen of the wine , then we should get two shillings . 
And I think that was smart of Dora , even if it was rather rude . 
We walked home very fast and not saying much , and the girls went up to their rooms . 
When I went to tell them tea was ready , and there was a teacake , Dora was crying like anything and Alice hugging her . 
I am afraid there is a great deal of crying in this chapter , but I can't help it . 
Girls will sometimes I suppose it is their nature , and we ought to be sorry for their affliction . 
Mother taught me to call her Sissy when we were very little and before the others came , but I don't often somehow , now we are old . 
I patted her on the back , and she put her head against my sleeve , holding on to Alice all the time , and she went on . 
She was in that laughy cryey state when people say things they wouldn't say at other times . 
'Oh dear , oh dear I do try , I do . 
And when Mother died she said , Dora , take care of the others , and teach them to be good , and keep them out of trouble and make them happy . 
She said , Take care of them for me , Dora dear . 
And I have tried , and all of you hate me for it and to day I let you do this , though I knew all the time it was silly . 
I hope you will not think I was a muff but I kissed Dora for some time . 
And I will never say again that she comes the good elder sister too much . 
And I have put all this in though I do hate telling about it , because I own I have been hard on Dora , but I never will be again . 
She is a good old sort of course we never knew before about what Mother told her , or we wouldn't have ragged her as we did . 
We did not tell the little ones , but I got Alice to speak to Dicky , and we three can sit on the others if requisite . 
She handed in a brown paper parcel and a letter . 
And three minutes later Father called us into his study . 
On the table was the brown paper parcel , open , with our bottle and glass on it , and Father had a letter in his hand . 
So Dicky spoke up , and he told Father the whole thing , as far as he knew it , for Alice and I had not told about the dead sailors' lady . 
Father said no , he didn't think clergymen could afford such expensive wine and he said he would like to taste it . 
So we gave him what there was left , for we had decided coming home that we would give up trying for the two pounds a week in our spare time . 
Father tasted it , and then he acted just as H. O. had done when he had his teaspoonful , but of course we did not say anything . 
Then he laughed till I thought he would never stop . 
I think it was the sherry , because I am sure I have read somewhere about 'wine that maketh glad the heart of man' . 
He had only a very little , which shows that it was a good after dinner wine , stimulating , and yet . 
But when he had done laughing he said , 'It's all right , kids . 
Only don't do it again . 
The wine trade is overcrowded and besides , I thought you promised to consult me before going into business ? 'Before buying one I thought you meant , said Dicky . 
'This was only on commission . 
CHAPTER THE NOBLENESS OF OSWALD The part about his nobleness only comes at the end , but you would not understand it unless you knew how it began . 
It began , like nearly everything about that time , with treasure seeking . 
Of course as soon as we had promised to consult my Father about business matters we all gave up wanting to go into business . 
We don't mind Albert's uncle chipping in sometimes when the thing's going on , but we are glad he never asked us to promise to consult him about anything . 
My Father says so , and he ought to know . 
We had several ideas about that time , but having so little chink always stood in the way . 
This was the case with H. O. 's idea of setting up a coconut shy on this side of the Heath , where there are none generally . 
We had no sticks or wooden balls , and the greengrocer said he could not book so many as twelve dozen coconuts without Mr Bastable's written order . 
And as we did not wish to consult my Father it was decided to drop it . 
So we gave that up too . 
It was a wet day , I remember , and mutton hash for dinner very tough with pale gravy with lumps in it . 
So then we were the Children of the New Forest , and the mutton tasted much better . 
No one in the New Forest minds venison being tough and the gravy pale . 
So we said , 'What of ? Dicky answered us at once , though his mouth was full of bread with liquorice stuck in it to look like cake . 
Dicky did not do this . 
'Well , this liquorice water 'Tea , said Alice softly . 
'Well , tea then made me think . 
So of course Oswald left off at once . 
When you are polite to Oswald he never refuses to grant your requests . 
When we were all dressed up we sat down round the camp fire , and Dicky began again . 
'Every one in the world wants money . 
The people who get it are the ones who see things . 
I have seen one thing . 
Dicky stopped and smoked the pipe of peace . 
It is the pipe we did bubbles with in the summer , and somehow it has not got broken yet . 
We put tea leaves in it for the pipe of peace , but the girls are not allowed to have any . 
It is not right to let girls smoke . 
They get to think too much of themselves if you let them do everything the same as men . 
Oswald said , 'Out with it . 
'I see that glass bottles only cost a penny . 
H. O. , if you dare to snigger I'll send you round selling old bottles , and you shan't have any sweets except out of the money you get for them . 
And the same with you , Noel . 
'NoEl wasn't sniggering , said Alice in a hurry 'it is only his taking so much interest in what you were saying makes him look like that . 
Be quiet , H. O. , and don't you make faces , either . 
Do go on , Dicky dear . 
'There must be hundreds of millions of bottles of medicines sold every year . 
Because all the different medicines say , Thousands of cures daily , and if you only take that as two thousand , which it must be , at least , it mounts up . 
Now the bottles , as I was saying , don't cost anything like that . 
'It's the medicine costs the money , said Dora 'look how expensive jujubes are at the chemist's , and peppermints too . 
'That's only because they're nice , Dicky explained 'nasty things are not so dear . 
Look what a lot of brimstone you get for a penny , and the same with alum . 
We would not put the nice kinds of chemist's things in our medicine . 
And Alice thought so too . 
And Dicky said he did not mean it , he was quite decided to let it be in bottles . 
We only had to invent the medicine . 
You might think that was easy , because of the number of them you see every day in the paper , but it is much harder than you think . 
First we had to decide what sort of illness we should like to cure , and a 'heated discussion ensued' , like in Parliament . 
Oswald would have liked wounds . 
Dicky said he did not care a straw what the loathsome disease was , as long as we hurried up and settled on something . 
Then Alice said 'It ought to be something very common , and only one thing . 
Not the pains in the back and all the hundreds of things the people have in somebody's syrup . 
What's the commonest thing of all ? And at once we said , 'Colds . 
Then we wrote a label to go on the bottle . 
When it was written it would not go on the vinegar bottle that we had got , but we knew it would go small when it was printed . 
He left off his undershirt that very day , and next morning he stood in a draught in his nightgown for quite a long time . 
And we damped his day shirt with the nail brush before he put it on . 
They always tell you that these things will give you cold , but we found it was not so . 
He walked home in his wet clothes , which they say is a sure thing , but it was no go , though his boots were quite spoiled . 
And three days after Noel began to cough and sneeze . 
So then Dicky said it was not fair . 
'I can't help it , Noel said . 
'You should have caught it yourself , then it wouldn't have come to me . 
And Alice said she had known all along Noel oughtn't to have stood about on the bank cheering in the cold . 
Noel had to go to bed , and then we began to make the medicines we were sorry he was out of it , but he had the fun of taking the things . 
We made a great many medicines . 
She got sage and thyme and savory and marjoram and boiled them all up together with salt and water , but she WOULD put parsley in too . 
Oswald is sure parsley is not a herb . 
It is only put on the cold meat and you are not supposed to eat it . 
It kills parrots to eat parsley , I believe . 
I expect it was the parsley that disagreed so with Noel . 
The medicine did not seem to do the cough any good . 
Oswald got a pennyworth of alum , because it is so cheap , and some turpentine which every one knows is good for colds , and a little sugar and an aniseed ball . 
These were mixed in a bottle with water , but Eliza threw it away and said it was nasty rubbish , and I hadn't any money to get more things with . 
It would not be honest , and besides nobody would believe you . 
Dick mixed up lemon juice and sugar and a little of the juice of the red flannel that Noel's throat was done up in . 
It comes out beautifully in hot water . 
NoEl took this and he liked it . 
NoEl's own idea was liquorice water , and we let him have it , but it is too plain and black to sell in bottles at the proper price . 
It was all right , because H. O. 's paint box is the French kind , with Couleurs non Vgngneuses on it . 
This means you may suck your brushes if you want to , or even your paints if you are a very little boy . 
It was rather jolly while Noel had that cold . 
Father was away at Liverpool on business , and Albert's uncle was at Hastings . 
We were rather glad of this , because we wished to give all the medicines a fair trial , and grown ups are but too fond of interfering . 
But when it had been in his head nearly a week , Oswald happened to tumble over Alice on the stairs . 
When we got up she was crying . 
'Don't cry silly ! said Oswald 'you know I didn't hurt you . 
I was very sorry if I had hurt her , but you ought not to sit on the stairs in the dark and let other people tumble over you . 
You ought to remember how beastly it is for them if they do hurt you . 
'Oh , it's not that , Oswald , Alice said . 
'Don't be a pig ! I am so miserable . 
Do be kind to me . 
So Oswald thumped her on the back and told her to shut up . 
'It's about Noel , she said . 
And I know the doctor's bills are awful . 
I heard Father telling Aunt Emily so in the summer . 
But he was , and perhaps he'll die or something . 
Then she began to cry again . 
Oswald thumped her again , because he knows how a good brother ought to behave , and said , 'Cheer up . 
If we had been in a book Oswald would have embraced his little sister tenderly , and mingled his tears with hers . 
Then Oswald said , 'Why not write to Father ? And she cried more and said , 'I've lost the paper with the address . 
H. O. had it to draw on the back of , and I can't find it now I've looked everywhere . 
I'll tell you what I'm going to do . 
And I say , Oswald , do pretend I'm in if Eliza asks . 
'Tell me what you're going to do , I said . 
But she said 'No' and there was a good reason why not . 
So I said I wouldn't promise if it came to that . 
Of course I meant to all right . 
But it did seem mean of her not to tell me . 
So Alice went out by the side door while Eliza was setting tea , and she was a long time gone she was not in to tea . 
When Eliza asked Oswald where she was he said he did not know , but perhaps she was tidying her corner drawer . 
Girls often do this , and it takes a long time . 
NoEl coughed a good bit after tea , and asked for Alice . 
Oswald told him she was doing something and it was a secret . 
Oswald did not tell any lies even to save his sister . 
When Alice came back she was very quiet , but she whispered to Oswald that it was all right . 
When it was rather late Eliza said she was going out to post a letter . 
It was not any of us Eliza told us about it . 
And when there was a knock at the door a long time after we thought it was Eliza come back , and that she had forgotten the back door key . 
We made H. O. go down to open the door , because it is his place to run about his legs are younger than ours . 
And we heard boots on the stairs besides H. O. 's , and we listened spellbound till the door opened , and it was Albert's uncle . 
'I am glad you've come , Oswald said . 
'Alice began to think Noel Alice stopped me , and her face was very red , her nose was shiny too , with having cried so much before tea . 
She said , 'I only said I thought Noel ought to have the doctor . 
Don't you think he ought ? She got hold of Albert's uncle and held on to him . 
'Let's have a look at you , young man , said Albert's uncle , and he sat down on the edge of the bed . 
It is a rather shaky bed , the bar that keeps it steady underneath got broken when we were playing burglars last winter . 
He began to feel Noel's pulse , and went on talking . 
'It was revealed to the Arab physician as he made merry in his tents on the wild plains of Hastings that the Presence had a cold in its head . 
So he immediately seated himself on the magic carpet , and bade it bear him hither , only pausing in the flight to purchase a few sweetmeats in the bazaar . 
He pulled out a jolly lot of chocolate and some butterscotch , and grapes for Noel . 
When we had all said thank you , he went on . 
'The physician's are the words of wisdom it's high time this kid was asleep . 
Ye have my leave to depart . 
So we bunked , and Dora and Albert's uncle made Noel comfortable for the night . 
Then they came to the nursery which we had gone down to , and he sat down in the Guy Fawkes chair and said , 'Now then . 
Alice said , 'You may tell them what I did . 
I daresay they'll all be in a wax , but I don't care . 
'I think you were very wise , said Albert's uncle , pulling her close to him to sit on his knee . 
'I am very glad you telegraphed . 
So then Oswald understood what Alice's secret was . 
She had gone out and sent a telegram to Albert's uncle at Hastings . 
But Oswald thought she might have told him . 
Afterwards she told me what she had put in the telegram . 
It was , 'Come home . 
We have given Noel a cold , and I think we are killing him . 
With the address it came to tenpence halfpenny . 
Albert's uncle looked very serious . 
'Look here , he said , 'You're old enough not to play the fool like this . 
Health is the best thing you've got you ought to know better than to risk it . 
You might have killed your little brother with your precious medicines . 
You've had a lucky escape , certainly . 
But poor Noel ! 'Oh , do you think he's going to die ? Alice asked that , and she was crying again . 
'No , no , said Albert's uncle 'but look here . 
Do you see how silly you've been ? And I thought you promised your Father And then he gave us a long talking to . 
He can make you feel most awfully Small . 
Then he went on 'Well , I will take you if you like , or I will take Noel to the sea for a week to cure his cold . 
And we went to bed . 
It must have been the middle of the night when Oswald woke up suddenly , and there was Alice with her teeth chattering , shaking him to wake him . 
'Oh , Oswald ! she said , 'I am so unhappy . 
Suppose I should die in the night ! Oswald told her to go to bed and not gas . 
But she said , 'I must tell you I wish I'd told Albert's uncle . 
I'm a thief , and if I die to night I know where thieves go to . 
So Oswald saw it was no good and he sat up in bed and said 'Go ahead . 
So Alice stood shivering and said 'I hadn't enough money for the telegram , so I took the bad sixpence out of the exchequer . 
And I paid for it with that and the fivepence I had . 
And I wouldn't tell you , because if you'd stopped me doing it I couldn't have borne it and if you'd helped me you'd have been a thief too . 
Oh , what shall I do ? Oswald thought a minute , and then he said 'You'd better have told me . 
But I think it will be all right if we pay it back . 
Cross with you ? No , stupid ! Only another time you'd better not keep secrets . 
So she kissed Oswald , and he let her , and she went back to bed . 
The next day Albert's uncle took Noel away , before Oswald had time to persuade Alice that we ought to tell him about the sixpence . 
Alice was very unhappy , but not so much as in the night you can be very miserable in the night if you have done anything wrong and you happen to be awake . 
I know this for a fact . 
I don't think I ever had such an unhappy day . 
Of course we could have written to Albert's uncle , but it would have taken a long time , and every moment of delay added to Alice's danger . 
We thought and thought , but we couldn't think of any way to get that sixpence . 
It seems a small sum , but you see Alice's liberty depended on it . 
It was quite late in the afternoon when I met Mrs Leslie on the Parade . 
She had a brown fur coat and a lot of yellow flowers in her hands . 
She stopped to speak to me , and asked me how the Poet was . 
It is a hard thing to say much harder than you would think . 
And just as she started she shoved the yellow flowers through the window and said , 'For the sick poet , with my love , and was driven off . 
Gentle reader , I will not conceal from you what Oswald did . 
Oswald sacrificed his family pride because of his little sister's danger . 
I do not say he was a noble boy I just tell you what he did , and you can decide for yourself about the nobleness . 
He sold those flowers in penny bunches and got tenpence . 
Then he went to the telegraph office at Lewisham , and said to the lady there 'A little girl gave you a bad sixpence yesterday . 
Here are six good pennies . 
The lady said she had not noticed it , and never mind , but Oswald knew that 'Honesty is the best Policy' , and he refused to take back the pennies . 
So at last she said she should put them in the plate on Sunday . 
She is a very nice lady . 
I like the way she does her hair . 
We bought peppermint bullseyes with the fourpence I had over , and the others wanted to know where we got the money , but we would not tell . 
Only afterwards when Noel came home we told him , because they were his flowers , and he said it was quite right . 
He made some poetry about it . 
I only remember one bit of it . 
The noble youth of high degree Consents to play a menial part , All for his sister Alice's sake , Who was so dear to his faithful heart . 
But Oswald himself has never bragged about it . 
We got no treasure out of this , unless you count the peppermint bullseyes . 
CHAPTER THE ROBBER AND THE BURGLAR A day or two after Noel came back from Hastings there was snow it was jolly . 
And we cleared it off the path . 
A man to do it is sixpence at least , and you should always save when you can . 
A penny saved is a penny earned . 
Father says the Water Rates is a sensible man , and knows it is always well to be prepared for whatever happens , however unlikely . 
Two of us thought of it at the same moment , so it was quite a large avalanche . 
And when the Water Rates had shaken himself he rang the bell . 
It was Saturday , and Father was at home . 
We apologized to the Water Rates when Father told us to . 
We were all sent to bed for it . 
And even quite wrong things sometimes lead to adventures as every one knows who has ever read about pirates or highwaymen . 
He had to have a fire because he still had a bit of a cold . 
she got some chestnuts from him . 
Eliza had gone out she says she gets things cheaper on Saturday nights . 
She has a great friend , who sells fish at a shop , and he is very generous , and lets her have herrings for less than half the natural price . 
So we were all alone in the house Pincher was out with Eliza , and we talked about robbers . 
And Dora thought it would be a dreadful trade , but Dicky said 'I think it would be very interesting . 
And you would only rob rich people , and be very generous to the poor and needy , like Claude Duval . 
Dora said , 'It is wrong to be a robber . 
'Yes , said Alice , 'you would never know a happy hour . 
'But you can't , said Dora 'he is too clever , and besides , it's wrong anyway . 
'Yes you can , and it isn't and murdering him with boiling oil is a right act , too , so there ! said Noel . 
'What about Ali Baba ? Now then ! And we felt it was a score for NoEl . 
'What would you do if there was a robber ? said Alice . 
H. O. said he would kill him with boiling oil but Alice explained that she meant a real robber now this minute in the house . 
Now what I am going to tell you is a very strange and wonderful thing , and I hope you will be able to believe it . 
I should not , if a boy told me , unless I knew him to be a man of honour , and perhaps not then unless he gave his sacred word . 
But it is true , all the same , and it only shows that the days of romance and daring deeds are not yet at an end . 
It was like somebody moving a chair . 
We held our breath and listened and then came another noise , like some one poking a fire . 
Now , you remember there was no one to poke a fire or move a chair downstairs , because Eliza and Father were both out . 
H. O. and Alice and Dora caught hold of each other's blankets and looked at Dicky and Oswald , and every one was quite pale . 
And Noel whispered 'It's ghosts , I know it is' and then we listened again , but there was no more noise . 
The girls said afterwards that they shivered with terror , and their teeth chattered , but we did not see or hear this at the time . 
I expect it's a stray cat got in when the coals came this morning , and she's been hiding in the cellar , and now she's moving about . 
Let's go down and see . 
The girls wouldn't , of course but I could see that they breathed more freely too . 
But Dicky said , 'All right I will if you will . 
H. O. said , 'Do you think it's really a cat ? So we said he had better stay with the girls . 
And of course after that we had to let him and Alice both come . 
Dora said if we took Noel down with his cold , she would scream 'Fire ! and 'Murder ! and she didn't mind if the whole street heard . 
So Noel agreed to be getting his clothes on , and the rest of us said we would go down and look for the cat . 
And then it would have been just as bad , and it would have lasted longer , and you would have known you were a coward besides . 
Dicky says he felt all these same things . 
Many people would say we were young heroes to go down as we did so I have tried to explain , because no young hero wishes to have more credit than he deserves . 
And we listened and listened till our ears buzzed . 
But Alice and H. O. did . 
Dicky got the poker out of Noel's room , and told Dora it was to settle the cat with when we caught her . 
Then Oswald whispered , 'Let's play at burglars Dicky and I are armed to the teeth , we will go first . 
You keep a flight behind us , and be a reinforcement if we are attacked . 
Or you can retreat and defend the women and children in the fortress , if you'd rather . 
But they said they would be a reinforcement . 
Oswald's teeth chattered a little when he spoke . 
It was not with anything else except cold . 
So Dicky and Oswald crept down , and when we got to the bottom of the stairs , we saw Father's study door just ajar , and the crack of light . 
There was no mistake about it . 
There is nothing in that cupboard but old ledgers and magazines and the tool chest , but of course , a robber could not know that beforehand . 
When Oswald saw that there really was a robber , and that he was so heavily armed with the screwdriver , he did not feel comfortable . 
Are you armed ? And the robber said , 'No , not in the least . 
And Oswald said , still pointing the pistol , and feeling very strong and brave and as if he was in a book , 'Turn out your pockets . 
The robber did and while he turned them Out , we looked at him . 
He was of the middle height , and clad in a black frock coat and grey trousers . 
His boots were a little gone at the sides , and his shirt cuffs were a bit frayed , but otherwise he was of gentlemanly demeanour . 
He had a thin , wrinkled face , with big , light eyes that sparkled , and then looked soft very queerly , and a short beard . 
In his youth it must have been of a fair golden colour , but now it was tinged with grey . 
Wait till Father comes home . 
And they all came , and we sat round the fire , and it was jolly . 
The robber was very friendly , and talked to us a great deal . 
'I wasn't always in this low way of business , he said , when Noel said something about the things he had turned out of his pockets . 
'It's a great come down to a man like me . 
But , if I must be caught , it's something to be caught by brave young heroes like you . 
My stars ! How you did bolt into the room , Surrender , and up with your hands ! You might have been born and bred to the thief catching . 
'And what made you think there was any one in the house ? the robber asked , when he had thrown his head back , and laughed for quite half a minute . 
And he applauded our valour , and Alice and H. O. explained that they would have said 'Surrender , too , only they were reinforcements . 
The robber ate some of the chestnuts and we sat and wondered when Father would come home , and what he would say to us for our intrepid conduct . 
And the robber told us of all the things he had done before he began to break into houses . 
'It is cheek , of the jolliest ! But you see I've come down in the world . 
I was a highway robber once , but horses are so expensive to hire five shillings an hour , you know and I couldn't afford to keep them . 
The highwayman business isn't what it was . 
And he talked of highwaymen as if he knew just how we liked hearing it . 
'I don't say there are no ups and downs in it , he said , 'especially in stormy weather . 
But what a trade ! And a sword at your side , and the Jolly Roger flying at the peak , and a prize in sight . 
He used such nice words , and he had a gentleman's voice . 
'I'm sure you weren't brought up to be a pirate , said Dora . 
She had dressed even to her collar and made Noel do it too but the rest of us were in blankets with just a few odd things put on anyhow underneath . 
The robber frowned and sighed . 
'No , he said , 'I was brought up to the law . 
I was at Balliol , bless your hearts , and that's true anyway . 
He sighed again , and looked hard at the fire . 
'Oh , yes why I gave it up because because I could not get over the dreadful sea sickness . 
'Nelson was sea sick , said Oswald . 
'Ah , said the robber 'but I hadn't his luck or his pluck , or something . 
He stuck to it and won Trafalgar , didn't he ? Kiss me , Hardy and all that , eh ? I couldn't stick to it I had to resign . 
I saw by his understanding about Nelson that he was really a man who had been to a good school as well as to Balliol . 
'Besides , the coins are so ugly nowadays , he said , 'no one could really find any pleasure in making them . 
And it's a hole and corner business at the best , isn't it ? and it must be a very thirsty one with the hot metal and furnaces and things . 
And again he looked at the fire . 
Oswald forgot for a minute that the interesting stranger was a robber , and asked him if he wouldn't have a drink . 
Oswald has heard Father do this to his friends , so he knows it is the right thing . 
The robber said he didn't mind if he did . 
And that is right , too . 
And Dora went and got a bottle of Father's ale the Light Sparkling Family and a glass , and we gave it to the robber . 
Dora said she would be responsible . 
Then when he had had a drink he told us about bandits , but he said it was so bad in wet weather . 
Bandits' caves were hardly ever properly weathertight . 
And bush ranging was the same . 
'As a matter of fact , he said , 'I was bush ranging this afternoon , among the furze bushes on the Heath , but I had no luck . 
I stopped the Lord Mayor in his gilt coach , with all his footmen in plush and gold lace , smart as cockatoos . 
But it was no go . 
The Lord Mayor hadn't a stiver in his pockets . 
One of the footmen had six new pennies the Lord Mayor always pays his servants' wages in new pennies . 
I spent fourpence of that in bread and cheese , that on the table's the tuppence . 
Ah , it's a poor trade ! And then he filled his pipe again . 
We had turned out the gas , so that Father should have a jolly good surprise when he did come home , and we sat and talked as pleasant as could be . 
I never liked a new man better than I liked that robber . 
And I felt so sorry for him . 
He told us he had been a war correspondent and an editor , in happier days , as well as a horse stealer and a colonel of dragoons . 
There was a scrape , scrape , scraping noise it came from downstairs . 
'They're filing something , whispered the robber , 'here shut up , give me that pistol , and the poker . 
There is a burglar now , and no mistake . 
'It's only a toy one and it won't go off , I said , 'but you can cock it . 
Then we heard a snap . 
'There goes the window bar , said the robber softly . 
'Jove ! what an adventure ! You kids stay here , I'll tackle it . 
But Dicky and I said we should come . 
So he let us go as far as the bottom of the kitchen stairs , and we took the tongs and shovel with us . 
There was a light in the kitchen a very little light . 
It is curious we never thought , any of us , that this might be a plant of our robber's to get away . 
We never thought of doubting his word of honour . 
And we heard a husky voice in the kitchen saying 'All right , governor ! Stow that scent sprinkler . 
Blowed if I ain't pretty well sick of the job , anyway . 
Our robber was standing in the grandest manner with his legs very wide apart , and the pistol pointing at the cowering burglar . 
How different from our own robber ! The burglar had a dark lantern , and he was standing by the plate basket . 
When we had lit the gas we all thought he was very like what a burglar ought to be . 
I just said 'Do you mean I'm to fetch one ? Our robber looked at the burglar and said nothing . 
Then the burglar began to speak very fast , and to look different ways with his hard , shiny little eyes . 
'Lookee 'ere , governor , he said , 'I was stony broke , so help me , I was . 
And blessed if I've nicked a haporth of your little lot . 
You know yourself there ain't much to tempt a bloke , he shook the plate basket as if he was angry with it , and the yellowy spoons and forks rattled . 
'I was just a looking through this 'ere Bank ollerday show , when you come . 
Let me off , sir . 
'No , said our robber 'you certainly are not . 
Alice and the others had come down by now to see what was happening . 
Alice told me afterwards they thought it really was the cat this time . 
'No , I ain't 'andy , as you say , sir , and if you let me off this once I'll chuck the whole blooming bizz rake my civvy , I will . 
Don't be hard on a cove , mister think of the missis and the kids . 
I've got one just the cut of little missy there bless 'er pretty 'eart . 
'Your family certainly fits your circumstances very nicely , said our robber . 
'You ask yer Father to let me go , miss , said the burglar e won't 'ave the 'art to refuse you . 
'And will you be good and not rob any more ? said Alice . 
'I'll turn over a noo leaf , miss , so help me . 
Then Alice said 'Oh , do let him go ! I'm sure he'll be good . 
But our robber said no , it wouldn't be right we must wait till Father came home . 
Then H. O. said , very suddenly and plainly 'I don't think it's at all fair , when you're a robber yourself . 
He wasn't hurt at all , except a lump at the back of his head . 
And he got up , and we dusted the kitchen floor off him . 
Eliza is a dirty girl . 
Then he said , 'Let's put up the shutters . 
It never rains but it pours . 
Now you've had two burglars I daresay you'll have twenty . 
It was the most wonderful adventure we ever had , though it wasn't treasure seeking at least not ours . 
I suppose it was the burglar's treasure seeking , but he didn't get much and our robber said he didn't believe a word about those kids that were so like Alice and me . 
And then there was the click of the gate , and we said , 'Here's Father , and the robber said , 'And now for the police . 
Then we all jumped up . 
We did like him so much , and it seemed so unfair that he should be sent to prison , and the horrid , lumping big burglar not . 
And Alice said , 'Oh , no run ! Dicky will let you out at the back door . 
Oh , do go , go now . 
And we all said , 'Yes , go , and pulled him towards the door , and gave him his hat and stick and the things out of his pockets . 
But Father's latchkey was in the door , and it was too late . 
Father came in quickly , purring with the cold , and began to say , 'It's all right , Foulkes , I've got And then he stopped short and stared at us . 
Then he said , in the voice we all hate , 'Children , what is the meaning of all this ? And for a minute nobody spoke . 
Hands up , surrender , or I fire , and all the rest of it . 
My word , Bastable , but you've got some kids worth having ! I wish my Denny had their pluck . 
Then we began to understand , and it was like being knocked down , it was so sudden . 
And our robber told us he wasn't a robber after all . 
And Father had gone over the Heath to Vanbrugh Park to see some rich people he knows and get the letter . 
We were dumb with amazement . 
It must have been moderately entertaining . 
Then our robber told my Father how I had rushed into the room with a pistol , crying out . 
but you know all about that . 
We thought it was a cat at first , and then I thought there was no one there , and I was just larking . 
We sat up till past twelve o'clock , and I never felt so pleased to think I was not born a girl . 
It was hard on the others they would have done just the same if they'd thought of it . 
But it does make you feel jolly when your pater says you're a young brick ! When Mr Foulkes was going , he said to Alice , 'Good bye , Hardy . 
And Alice understood , of course , and kissed him as hard as she could . 
And she said , 'I wanted to , when you said no one kissed you when you left off being a pirate . 
And he said , 'I know you did , my dear . 
And he jolly well did play it , and no mistake . 
We have often seen him since , and his boy Denny , and his girl Daisy , but that comes in another story . 
And if any of you kids who read this ever had two such adventures in one night you can just write and tell me . 
CHAPTER THE DIVINING ROD You have no idea how uncomfortable the house was on the day when we sought for gold with the divining rod . 
It was like a spring cleaning in the winter time . 
All the carpets were up , because Father had told Eliza to make the place decent as there was a gentleman coming to dinner the next day . 
So she got in a charwoman , and they slopped water about , and left brooms and brushes on the stairs for people to tumble over . 
Playing at Hardy made us think of our own dear robber , and we wished he was there , and wondered if we should ever see him any more . 
We were rather astonished at Father's having anyone to dinner , because now he never seems to think of anything but business . 
Before Mother died people often came to dinner , and Father's business did not take up so much of his time and was not the bother it is now . 
Eliza can't cook very nice things . 
She told Father she was a good plain cook , but he says it was a fancy portrait . 
It came up , and it was very dusty and under it we found my threepenny bit that I lost ages ago , which shows what Eliza is . 
He said he'd heard that nagging women drove a man from his home , and now he found it was quite true . 
Oswald always tries to be a peacemaker , so he told Dicky to shut up and not make an ass of himself . 
And Alice said , 'Well , Dora began And Dora tossed her chin up and said it wasn't any business of Oswald's any way , and no one asked Alice's opinion . 
So we all felt very uncomfortable till NoEl said , 'Don't let's quarrel about nothing . 
We all laughed then and stopped jawing at each other . 
Noel is very funny with his poetry . 
But that piece happened to come out quite true . 
He was quite pleased but the leaves made a mess , and Eliza said , 'Don't . 
I believe that's a word grown ups use more than any other . 
Then suddenly Alice thought of that old idea of hers for finding treasure , and she said 'Do let's try the divining rod . 
'Do ye desire to fashion of it helms and hauberks ? said Alice . 
'Yes , said Noel 'and chains and ouches . 
'I bet you don't know what an ouch is , said Dicky . 
'Yes I do , so there ! said Noel . 
I looked it out in the dicker , now then ! We asked him what a carcanet was , but he wouldn't say . 
'And we want to make fair goblets of the gold , said Oswald . 
'Yes , to drink coconut milk out of , said H. O. 'And we desire to build fair palaces of it , said Dicky . 
'And to buy things , said Dora 'a great many things . 
New Sunday frocks and hats and kid gloves and She would have gone on for ever so long only we reminded her that we hadn't found the gold yet . 
And she went down into the hall . 
We all followed chanting 'Heroes . 
It is a gloomy thing the girls learnt at the High School , and we always use it when we want a priestly chant . 
The umbrella stand was the altar of the golden idol , and it yielded her the old school umbrella . 
She carried it between her palms . 
'Now , she said , 'I shall sing the magic chant . 
Then you will dig , and the golden treasure will be revealed . 
H. O. , if you make that clatter with your boots they'll come and tell us not to . 
Now come on all of you . 
So she went upstairs and down and into every room . 
We followed her on tiptoe , and Alice sang as she went . 
What she sang is not out of a book Noel made it up while she was dressing up for the priestess . 
Ashen rod cold That here I hold , Teach me where to find the gold . 
The priestess said , 'All right , wait a minute , and went on singing . 
Then we all followed her back into the nursery , where the carpet was up and the boards smelt of soft soap . 
Then she said , 'It moves , it moves ! Once more the choral hymn ! So we sang 'Heroes' again , and in the middle the umbrella dropped from her hands . 
'The magic rod has spoken , said Alice 'dig here , and that with courage and despatch . 
Dig an you value your lives , for ere sundown the dragon who guards this spoil will return in his fiery fury and make you his unresisting prey . 
So we dug that is , we got the loose board up . 
'Let's come back and carry it away another day . 
But Alice was kneeling by the hole . 
'Let me feast my eyes on the golden splendour , she said , 'hidden these long centuries from the human eye . 
Behold how the magic rod has led us to treasures more Oswald , don't push so ! more bright than ever monarch I say , there is something down there , really . 
He wanted to be the knight and slay the great serpents with his good sword he even drew the umbrella ready but Alice said , 'All right , we will in a minute . 
But now I'm sure I saw it do get a match , Noel , there's a dear . 
'What did you see ? asked Noel , beginning to go for the matches very slowly . 
'Something bright , away in the corner under the board against the beam . 
Then I struck a match , and Alice cried , 'There it is ! And there it was , and it was a half sovereign , partly dusty and partly bright . 
We think perhaps a mouse , disturbed by the carpets being taken up , may have brushed the dust of years from part of the half sovereign with his tail . 
So we think perhaps this was part of it . 
H. O. wanted to go out at once and buy a mask he had seen for fourpence . 
It had been a shilling mask , but now it was going very cheap because Guy Fawkes' Day was over , and it was a little cracked at the top . 
but Dora said , 'I don't know that it's our money . 
Let's wait and ask Father . 
But H. O. did not care about waiting , and I felt for him . 
So we went and asked Albert next door's uncle . 
He was pegging away at one of the rotten novels he has to write to make his living , but he said we weren't interrupting him at all . 
'My hero's folly has involved him in a difficulty , he said . 
'It is his own fault . 
I will leave him to meditate on the incredible fatuity the hare brained recklessness which have brought him to this pass . 
It will be a lesson to him . 
I , meantime , will give myself unreservedly to the pleasures of your conversation . 
That's one thing I like Albert's uncle for . 
He always talks like a book , and yet you can always understand what he means . 
I think he is more like us , inside of his mind , than most grown up people are . 
I never met anyone else so good at it , except our robber , and we began it , with him . 
Albert's uncle took it and looked at it . 
'The great high priest will bite it to see if it's good , he said , and he did . 
'I congratulate you , he went on 'you are indeed among those favoured by the Immortals . 
First you find half crowns in the garden , and now this . 
The high priest advises you to tell your Father , and ask if you may keep it . 
My hero has become penitent , but impatient . 
I must pull him out of this scrape . 
Ye have my leave to depart . 
Of course we know from Kipling that that means , 'You'd better bunk , and be sharp about it , so we came away . 
I do like Albert's uncle . 
I shall be like that when I'm a man . 
He gave us our jungle books , and he is awfully clever , though he does have to write grown up tales . 
We told Father about it that night . 
He said we might certainly have the half sovereign , and he hoped we should enjoy ourselves with our treasure trove . 
Then he said , 'Your dear Mother's Indian Uncle is coming to dinner here to morrow night . 
So will you not drag the furniture about overhead , please , more than you're absolutely obliged and H. O. might wear slippers or something . 
I can always distinguish the note of H. O. 's boots . 
We said we would be very quiet , and Father went on 'This Indian Uncle is not used to children , and he is coming to talk business with me . 
It is really important that he should be quiet . 
Do you think , Dora , that perhaps bed at six for H. O. and Noel But H. O. said , 'Father , I really and truly won't make a noise . 
I'll stand on my head all the evening sooner than disturb the Indian Uncle with my boots . 
And Alice said Noel never made a row anyhow . 
So Father laughed and said , 'All right . 
And he said we might do as we liked with the half sovereign . 
'Only for goodness' sake don't try to go in for business with it , he said . 
'It's always a mistake to go into business with an insufficient capital . 
The next day we went out and bought the things . 
She was very busy cooking nice things for him to eat . 
We got the rabbit because we are so tired of beef and mutton , and Father hasn't a bill at the poultry shop . 
And we got some flowers to go on the dinner table for Father's party . 
And we got hardbake and raspberry noyau and peppermint rock and oranges and a coconut , with other nice things . 
We put it all in the top long drawer . 
It is H. O. 's play drawer , and we made him turn his things out and put them in Father's old portmanteau . 
H. O. is getting old enough now to learn to be unselfish , and besides , his drawer wanted tidying very badly . 
Then we all vowed by the honour of the ancient House of Bastable that we would not touch any of the feast till Dora gave the word next day . 
And we gave H. O. some of the hardbake , to make it easier for him to keep his vow . 
The next day was the most rememorable day in all our lives , but we didn't know that then . 
But that is another story . 
I think that is such a useful way to know when you can't think how to end up a chapter . 
I learnt it from another writer named Kipling . 
We heard the Uncle say , 'God bless my soul ! and then he went into Father's study and the door was shut we didn't see him properly at all that time . 
I don't believe the dinner was very nice . 
Something got burned I'm sure for we smelt it . 
It was an extra smell , besides the mutton . 
I know that got burned . 
Eliza wouldn't have any of us in the kitchen except Dora till dinner was over . 
Suddenly the study door opened and the Uncle came out and went and felt in his greatcoat pocket . 
It was his cigar case he wanted . 
We got a much better view of him then . 
That door has always been a little tiresome since the day we took the lock off to get out the pencil sharpener H. O. had shoved into the keyhole . 
The Uncle said , 'Pooh , pooh ! to that , and then he said he was afraid that what that same business wanted was not capital but management . 
Then I heard my Father say , 'It is not a pleasant subject I am sorry I introduced it . 
Suppose we change it , sir . 
Let me fill your glass . 
Then the poor Indian said something about vintage and that a poor , broken down man like he was couldn't be too careful . 
And then Father said , 'Well , whisky then , and afterwards they talked about Native Races and Imperial something or other and it got very dull . 
Perhaps they would not like us to hear . 
Alice said , 'Oh , do you think it could possibly matter ? and went and shut the study door softly but quite tight . 
So it was no use staying there any longer , and we went to the nursery . 
Then Noel said , 'Now I understand . 
Of course my Father is making a banquet for the Indian , because he is a poor , broken down man . 
We might have known that from Lo , the poor Indian ! you know . 
'Poor people are very proud , said Alice , 'and I expect Father thought the Indian would be ashamed , if all of us children knew how poor he was . 
Then Dora said , 'Poverty is no disgrace . 
We should honour honest Poverty . 
And we all agreed that that was so . 
'I wish his dinner had not been so nasty , Dora said , while Oswald put lumps of coal on the fire with his fingers , so as not to make a noise . 
'I am afraid the dinner was horrid . 
'The table looked very nice with the flowers we got . 
I set it myself , and Eliza made me borrow the silver spoons and forks from Albert next door's Mother . 
'I hope the poor Indian is honest , said Dicky gloomily , 'when you are a poor , broken down man silver spoons must be a great temptation . 
Oswald told him not to talk such tommy rot because the Indian was a relation , so of course he couldn't do anything dishonourable . 
I saw it when it came out . 
The apple pie looked very nice but it wasn't quite done in the apply part . 
The other thing that was burnt you must have smelt it , was the soup . 
'It is a pity , said Oswald 'I don't suppose he gets a good dinner every day . 
'No more do we , said H. O. , 'but we shall to morrow . 
I should have said it myself if she had given me time . 
You will see , if you think it over , that this would not have been at all polite to Father . 
So when the Uncle left , Father saw him to the door and let him out , and then went back to the study , looking very sad , Dora says . 
As the poor Indian came down our steps he saw me there at the gate . 
I said it again , for he stood staring at me . 
I don't suppose he was used to politeness from boys some boys are anything but especially to the Aged Poor . 
So I said , 'Good evening , Uncle , yet once again . 
Then he said 'Time you were in bed , young man . 
Eh ! what ? Then I saw I must speak plainly with him , man to man . 
I said 'You've been dining with my Father , and we couldn't help hearing you say the dinner was shocking . 
'Oswald Bastable , eh ? Bless my soul ! said the poor Indian . 
'Yes , I'll dine with you , Mr Oswald Bastable , with all the pleasure in life . 
Very kind and cordial invitation , I'm sure . 
At one o'clock , I presume ? 'Yes , at one , I said . 
Then I went in and told the others , and we wrote a paper and put it on the boy's dressing table , and it said 'The poor Indian is coming at one . 
He seemed very grateful to me for my kindness . 
We did not tell Father that the Uncle was coming to dinner with us , for the polite reason that I have explained before . 
But we had to tell Eliza so we said a friend was coming to dinner and we wanted everything very nice . 
And when one o'clock came the Indian Uncle came too . 
I let him in and helped him off with his greatcoat , which was all furry inside , and took him straight to the nursery . 
We were to have dinner there as usual , for we had decided from the first that he would enjoy himself more if he was not made a stranger of . 
We agreed to treat him as one of ourselves , because if we were too polite , he might think it was our pride because he was poor . 
He shook hands with us all and asked our ages , and what schools we went to , and shook his head when we said we were having a holiday just now . 
I felt rather uncomfortable I always do when they talk about schools and I couldn't think of anything to say to show him we meant to treat him as one of ourselves . 
I did ask if he played cricket . 
He said he had not played lately . 
And then no one said anything till dinner came in . 
When Eliza had brought in the rabbit and gone out again , we looked at each other in silent despair , like in books . 
Eh ! what ? and then we knew it was all right . 
So we at once showed the Uncle how to be a dauntless hunter . 
The Uncle's piece got a little burnt , but he said it was delicious , and he said game was always nicer when you had killed it yourself . 
It was a wild boar at bay , and very hard indeed to kill , even with forks . 
It was a very glorious and beautiful feast , and when it was over we said we hoped it was better than the dinner last night . 
And he said 'I never enjoyed a dinner more . 
He was too polite to say what he really thought about Father's dinner . 
And we saw that though he might be poor , he was a true gentleman . 
He smoked a cigar while we finished up what there was left to eat , and told us about tiger shooting and about elephants . 
We liked him very much indeed , and when he was going at last , Alice nudged me , and I said 'There's one and threepence farthing left out of our half sovereign . 
Will you take it , please , because we do like you very much indeed , and we don't want it , really and we would rather you had it . 
And I put the money into his hand . 
'I'll take the threepenny bit , he said , turning the money over and looking at it , 'but I couldn't rob you of the rest . 
Then he said he would like to see her do it again . 
'Well , silver , then , said he 'let's hide the plate basket , and little Alice shall make the divining rod find it . 
Eh ! what ? 'There isn't any silver in the plate basket now , Dora said . 
'Eliza asked me to borrow the silver spoons and forks for your dinner last night from Albert next door's Mother . 
Father never notices , but she thought it would be nicer for you . 
Our own silver went to have the dents taken out and I don't think Father could afford to pay the man for doing it , for the silver hasn't come back . 
'Bless my soul ! said the Uncle again , looking at the hole in the big chair that we burnt when we had Guy Fawkes' Day indoors . 
'And how much pocket money do you get ? Eh ! what ? 'We don't have any now , said Alice 'but indeed we don't want the other shilling . 
We'd much rather you had it , wouldn't we ? And the rest of us said , 'Yes . 
The Uncle wouldn't take it , but he asked a lot of questions , and at last he went away . 
And when he went he said 'Well , youngsters , I've enjoyed myself very much . 
I shan't forget your kind hospitality . 
Perhaps the poor Indian may be in a position to ask you all to dinner some day . 
We do not like these things , but Oswald knows how to behave . 
Then the poor Indian went away . 
We had not got any treasure by this party , but we had had a very good time , and I am sure the Uncle enjoyed himself . 
We were so sorry he was gone that we could none of us eat much tea but we did not mind , because we had pleased the poor Indian and enjoyed ourselves too . 
Besides , as Dora said , 'A contented mind is a continual feast , so it did not matter about not wanting tea . 
It is like as if our fortunes had been in an earthquake , and after those , you know , everything comes out wrong way up . 
The day after the Uncle speared the pudding with us opened in gloom and sadness . 
It was destined to be a day when things happened . 
Yet no sign of this appeared in the early morning . 
Then all was misery and upsetness . 
She makes it better than Eliza does Eliza's gruel is all little lumps , and when you suck them it is dry oatmeal inside . 
We kept as quiet as we could , and I made H. O. do some lessons , like the G. B. had advised us to . 
But it was very dull . 
Days like this are generally wet days . 
But , as I said , you never know . 
Then Dicky said if things went on like this he should run away to sea , and Alice said she thought it would be rather nice to go into a convent . 
But he began to cry , and then Oswald had to cheer him up because of Father wanting to be quiet . 
So Oswald said 'They'll eat H. O. if you don't look out ! And Dora said Oswald was too bad . 
As they were looking out at the rain splashing on the stones in the street they saw a four wheeled cab come lumbering up from the way the station is . 
Oswald called out 'Here comes the coach of the Fairy Godmother . 
It'll stop here , you see if it doesn't ! So they all came to the window to look . 
Oswald had only said that about stopping and he was stricken with wonder and amaze when the cab really did stop . 
Dora said , 'It is a pity some one doesn't tell him this isn't the house . 
Eliza opened the door , and we were all leaning over the banisters . 
Father heard the noise of parcels and boxes in the hall , and he came out without remembering how bad his cold was . 
If you do that yourself when you have a cold they call you careless and naughty . 
Then we heard the poor Indian say to Father 'I say , Dick , I dined with your kids yesterday as I daresay they've told you . 
Some were done up in old , dirty newspapers , and tied with bits of rag , and some were in brown paper and string from the shops , and there were boxes . 
We wondered if the Uncle had come to stay and this was his luggage , or whether it was to sell . 
Some of it smelt of spices , like merchandise and one bundle Alice felt certain was a bale . 
'I didn't touch , said H. O. 'Are you coming to stay ? I hope you are . 
'No harm done if you did touch , said the good , kind , Indian man to all of us . 
'For all these parcels are for you . 
Some of the things came from India . 
'Have you come from India , Uncle ? Noel asked and when he said 'Yes' we were all very much surprised , for we never thought of his being that sort of Indian . 
We thought he was the Red kind , and of course his not being accounted for his ignorance of beavers and things . 
Father came too and sat in the Guy Fawkes chair . 
I cannot begin to tell you all the things that kind friend of Uncle's had sent us . 
He must be a very agreeable person . 
There is a railway station called that I never knew what it meant before . 
The brown paper and string parcels had boxes of games in them and big cases of preserved fruits and things . 
And the shabby old newspaper parcels and the boxes had the Indian things in . 
I never saw so many beautiful things before . 
And he winked at my Father , for H. O. and I saw him . 
And my Father winked back , though he has always told us not to . 
That was a wonderful day . 
It was a treasure , and no mistake ! I never saw such heaps and heaps of presents , like things out of a fairy tale and even Eliza had a shawl . 
I do not think Eliza likes brushing things . 
It is the same with the carpets . 
But Oswald tries to make allowances even for people who do not wash their ears . 
The Indian Uncle came to see us often after that , and his friend always sent us something . 
Well , I'm going to have one a Christmas party . 
Not on Christmas Day , because every one goes home then but on the day after . 
Cold mutton and rice pudding . 
The girls made him a handkerchief case and a comb bag , out of some of the pieces of silk he had given them . 
He said it was the very nicest thing he had , and he was sure Uncle wouldn't mind his not having bought it with his own money . 
I think Father's business must have got better perhaps Uncle's friend put money in it and that did it good , like feeding the starving . 
We wondered very much where the Indian Uncle lived , because we had not been told . 
And we thought when the cab began to go up the hill towards the Heath that perhaps the Uncle lived in one of the poky little houses up at the top of Greenwich . 
But the cab went right over the Heath and in at some big gates , and through a shrubbery all white with frost like a fairy forest , because it was Christmas time . 
'I wonder whether he has taken a place as butler here ? said Dicky . 
'A poor , broken down man Noel thought it was very likely , because he knew that in these big houses there were always thousands of stately butlers . 
The Uncle came down the steps and opened the cab door himself , which I don't think butlers would expect to have to do . 
And he took us in . 
and there was a fox eating a stuffed duck in a glass case , and horns of stags and other animals over the doors . 
'We'll just come into my study first , said the Uncle , 'and wish each other a Merry Christmas . 
So then we knew he wasn't the butler , but it must be his own house , for only the master of the house has a study . 
His study was not much like Father's . 
It had hardly any books , but swords and guns and newspapers and a great many boots , and boxes half unpacked , with more Indian things bulging out of them . 
We gave him our presents and he was awfully pleased . 
Then he gave us his Christmas presents . 
I don't know what he meant . 
Then the Uncle looked at Father , and Father said , 'You tell them , sir . 
So the Uncle coughed and stood up and made a speech . 
He said 'Ladies and gentlemen , we are met together to discuss an important subject which has for some weeks engrossed the attention of the honourable member opposite and myself . 
I said , 'Hear , hear , and Alice whispered , 'What happened to the guinea pig ? Of course you know the answer to that . 
And so , if you're agreeable , we're all going to live here together , and , please God , it'll be a happy home for us all . 
Eh ! what ? He blew his nose and kissed us all round . 
As it was Christmas I did not mind , though I am much too old for it on other dates . 
Then he said , 'Thank you all very much for your presents but I've got a present here I value more than anything else I have . 
He said , 'You children gave me that when you thought I was the poor Indian , and I'll keep it as long as I live . 
And I've asked some friends to help us to be jolly , for this is our house warming . 
The Uncle replied , 'I have enough for my simple wants , thank you , H. O. and your Father's business will provide him with enough for yours . 
There is a beautiful portrait of Mother in Father's sitting room . 
The Uncle must be very rich indeed . 
Instead of which he saved up the news of his wealth till Christmas , and then told us all in one glorious burst . 
Besides , I can't help it if it is like Dickens , because it happens this way . 
Real life is often something like books . 
, and best of all our own Robber and his two kids , and our Robber had a new suit on . 
And he made her a bow like you see on a Christmas card . 
Then Alice asked , 'What about Mr Rosenbaum ? He was kind it would have been a pleasant surprise for him . 
But everybody laughed , and Uncle said 'Your father has paid him the sovereign he lent you . 
I don't think he could have borne another pleasant surprise . 
And I said there was the butcher , and he was really kind but they only laughed , and Father said you could not ask all your business friends to a private dinner . 
Then it was dinner time , and we thought of Uncle's talk about cold mutton and rice . 
But the Robber's kids stayed with their Father . 
They were very shy and frightened , and said hardly anything , but looked all about with very bright eyes . 
H. O. thought they were like white mice but afterwards we got to know them very well , and in the end they were not so mousy . 
And there is a good deal of interesting stuff to tell about them but I shall put all that in another book , for there is no room for it in this one . 
We played desert islands all the afternoon and drank Uncle's health in ginger wine . 
It was H. O. that upset his over Alice's green silk dress , and she never even rowed him . 
And now we are to go on living in the big house on the Heath , and it is very jolly . 
Mrs Leslie often comes to see us , and our own Robber and Albert next door's uncle . 
The Indian Uncle likes him because he has been in India too and is brown but our Uncle does not like Albert next door . 
He says he is a muff . 
And I am to go to Rugby , and so are Noel and H. O. , and perhaps to Balliol afterwards . 
Balliol is my Father's college . 
It has two separate coats of arms , which many other colleges are not allowed . 
Noel is going to be a poet and Dicky wants to go into Father's business . 
I thought it was rather rot , but Alice would show it to the Uncle , and he liked it very much . 
