Scanned by Charles Keller with OmniPage Professional OCR software purchased from Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
P. M. Sunday April , , and sank two and a half hours later , carrying over , of her passengers and crew with her . 
Frontispiece Caption CAPTAIN E. J. SMITH Of the ill fated giant of the sea a brave and seasoned commander who was carried to his death with his last and greatest ship . 
With a Message of Spiritual Consolation by REV . 
HENRY VAN DYKE , D. D. EDITED BY LOGAN MARSHALL Author of Life of Theodore Roosevelt , etc . 
Van Dyke's Spiritual Consolation to the Survivors of the Titanic The Titanic , greatest of ships , has gone to her ocean grave . 
What has she left behind her ? Think clearly . 
Vast sums of money have been lost . 
Some of them are covered by insurance which will be paid . 
The risk of running the northern course when it is menaced by icebergs is revealed . 
The cruelty of sending a ship to sea without enough life boats and life rafts to hold her company is exhibited and underlined in black . 
Hundreds of human hearts and homes are in mourning for the loss of dear companions and friends . 
The universal sympathy which is written in every face and heard in every voice proves that man is more than the beasts that perish . 
It is an evidence of the divine in humanity . 
But there is more than this harvest of debts , and lessons , and sorrows , in the tragedy of the sinking of the Titanic . 
There is a great ideal . 
It is clearly outlined and set before the mind and heart of the modern world , to approve and follow , or to despise and reject . 
But why ? There is no statute or enactment of any nation to enforce such an order . 
There is no trace of such a rule to be found in the history of ancient civilizations . 
There is no authority for it among the heathen races to day . 
On a Chinese ship , if we may believe the report of an official representative , the rule would have been Men First , children next , and women last . 
There is certainly no argument against this barbaric rule on physical or material grounds . 
On the average , a man is stronger than a woman , he is worth more than a woman , he has a longer prospect of life than a woman . 
Where , then , does this rule which prevailed in the sinking Titanic come from ? It comes from God , through the faith of Jesus of Nazareth . 
It is the ideal of self sacrifice . 
It is the rule that the strong ought to bear the infirmities of those that are weak . 
It is the divine revelation which is summed up in the words Greater love hath no man than this , that a man lay down his life for his friends . 
It needs a tragic catastrophe like the wreck of the Titanic to bring out the absolute contradiction between this ideal and all the counsels of materialism and selfish expediency . 
I do not say that the germ of this ideal may not be found in other religions . 
I do not say that they are against it . 
, unless his heart leads him to it . 
If what He said about our Father in Heaven is true , this ideal is supremely reasonable . 
Otherwise it is hard to find arguments for it . 
The tragedy of facts sets the question clearly before us . 
Is this ideal to survive and prevail in our civilization or not ? Without it , no doubt , we may have riches and power and dominion . 
PRINCETON , N. J. , April , . 
CHAPTER VIII THE CALL FOR HELP HEARD The value of the wireless Other ships alter their course Rescuers on the way . 
CHAPTER XIII THE STORY OF CHARLES F. HURD How the Titanic sank Water strewn with dead bodies Victims met death with hymn on their lips . 
CHAPTER XIV THRILLING ACCOUNT BY L. BEASLEY Collision only a slight jar Passengers could not believe the vessel doomed Narrow escape of life boats Picked up by the Carpathia . 
CHAPTER XVI INCIDENTS RELATED BY JAMES McGOUGH Women forced into the life boats Why some men were saved before women Asked to man life boats . 
CHAPTER XVIII STORY OF THE STEWARD Passengers and crew dying when taken aboard Carpathia One woman saved a dog English colonel swam for hours when boat with mother aboard capsized . 
CHAPTER XIX HOW THE WORLD RECEIVED THE NEWS Nations prostrate with grief Messages from kings and cardinals Disaster stirs world to necessity of stricter regulations . 
CHAPTER XXI SEARCHING FOR THE DEAD Sending out the Mackay Bennett and Minia Bremen passengers see bodies Identifying bodies Confusion in names Recoveries . 
CHAPTER XXIII THE FINANCIAL LOSS Titanic not fully insured Valuable cargo and mail No chance for salvage Life insurance loss Loss to the Carpathia . 
CHAPTER XXIV OPINIONS OF EXPERTS Captain E. K. Roden , Lewis Nixon , General Greely and Robert H. Kirk point out lessons taught by Titanic disaster and needed changes in construction . 
CHAPTER XXV OTHER GREAT MARINE DISASTERS . 
Deadly danger of icebergs Dozens of ships perish in collision Other disasters . 
CHAPTER XXVI DEVELOPMENT OF SHIPBUILDING Evolution of water travel Increases in size of vessels Is there any limit ? Achievements in speed Titanic not the last word . 
CHAPTER XXVII SAFETY AND LIFE SAVING DEVICES Wireless telegraphy Water tight bulkheads Submarine signals Life boats and rafts Nixon's pontoon Life preservers and buoys Rockets . 
CHAPTER XXIX THE SENATORIAL INVESTIGATION Prompt action of the Government Senate committee probes disaster and brings out details Testimony of Ismay , officers , crew passengers and other witnesses . 
FACTS ABOUT THE WRECK OF THE TITANIC NUMBER of persons aboard , . 
Number of life boats and rafts , . 
Capacity of each life boat , passengers and crew of . 
Utmost capacity of life boats and rafts , about . 
Number of life boats wrecked in launching , . 
Capacity of life boats safely launched , . 
Total number of persons taken in life boats , . 
Number who died in life boats , . 
Total number of Titanic's company lost , . 
The cause of the disaster was a collision with an iceberg in latitude . 
The Titanic had had repeated warnings of the presence of ice in that part of the course . 
Two official warnings had been received defining the position of the ice fields . 
It had been calculated on the Titanic that she would reach the ice fields about o'clock Sunday night . 
At that time the ship was driving at a speed of to knots , or about miles , an hour . 
There had been no details of seamen assigned to each boat . 
Some of the boats left the ship without seamen enough to man the oars . 
Some of the boats were not more than half full of passengers . 
The boats had no provisions , some of them had no water stored , some were without sail equipment or compasses . 
In some boats , which carried sails wrapped and bound , there was not a person with a knife to cut the ropes . 
In some boats the plugs in the bottom had been pulled out and the women passengers were compelled to thrust their hands into the holes to keep the boats from filling and sinking . 
The captain , E. J. Smith , admiral of the White Star fleet , went down with his ship . 
The ship had signaled her distress and another victory was set down to wireless . 
Twenty one hundred lives saved ! Additional news was soon received that the ship had collided with a mountain of ice in the North Atlantic , off Cape Race , Newfoundland , at . 
Sunday evening , April th . 
They were reported as being taken to Halifax , whence they would be sent by train to New York . 
The Baltic , Virginian and Olympic were also near the scene , according to the information received by wireless . 
While badly damaged , the giant vessel was reported as still afloat , but whether she could reach port or shoal water was uncertain . 
The White Star officials declared that the Titanic was in no immediate danger of sinking , because of her numerous water tight compartments . 
Mr. Franklin made a guess that the Titanic's passengers would get into Halifax on Wednesday . 
Monday night the world slept in peace and assurance . 
A wireless message had finally been received , reading All Titanic's passengers safe . 
CHAPTER II THE MOST SUMPTUOUS PALACE AFLOAT DIMENSIONS OF THE TITANIC CAPACITY PROVISIONS FOR THE COMFORT AND ENTERTAINMENT OF PASSENGERS MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT THE ARMY OF ATTENDANTS REQUIRED . 
THE statistical record of the great ship has news value at this time . 
Early in officials of the White Star Company announced that they would eclipse all previous records in shipbuilding with a vessel of staggering dimensions . 
The keel of the ill fated ship was laid in the summer of at the Harland Wolff yards , Belfast . 
Lord Pirrie , considered one of the best authorities on shipbuilding in the world , was the designer . 
The leviathan was launched on May , , and was completed in February , , at a cost of , , . 
SISTER SHIP OF OLYMPIC The Titanic , largest liner in commission , was a sister ship of the Olympic . 
The registered tonnage of each vessel is estimated as , , but officers of the White Star Line say that the Titanic measured , tons . 
The Titanic was commanded by Captain E. J. Smith , the White Star admiral , who had previously been on the Olympic . 
She was long , or about four city blocks , and was tons bigger than a battleship twice as large as the dreadnought Delaware . 
Like her sister ship , the Olympic , the Titanic was a four funneled vessel , and had eleven decks . 
The distance from the keel to the top of the funnels was feet . 
She had an average speed of twenty one knots . 
The Titanic could accommodate passengers . 
The steamship was divided into numerous compartments , separated by fifteen bulkheads . 
She was equipped with a gymnasium , swimming pool , hospital with operating room , and a grill and palm garden . 
CARRIED CREW OF The registered tonnage was , , and the displacement tonnage , . 
She was capable of carrying passengers and the crew numbered . 
The largest plates employed in the hull were feet long , weighing tons each , and the largest steel beam used was feet long , the weight of this double beam being tons . 
propeller tons , and each of the two wing propellers tons each . 
The after boss arms , from which were sus pended the three propeller shafts , tipped the scales at tons , and the forward boss arms at tons . 
Each link in the anchor chains weighed pounds . 
There were more than side lights and windows to light the public rooms and passenger cabins . 
Nothing was left to chance in the construction of the Titanic . 
held the solid plates of steel together . 
To insure stability in binding the heavy plates in the double bottom , half a million rivets , weighing about tons , were used . 
All the plating of the hulls was riveted by hydraulic power , driving seven ton riveting machines , suspended from traveling cranes . 
The double bottom extended the full length of the vessel , varying from feet inches to feet inches in depth , and lent added strength to the hull . 
MOST LUXURIOUS STEAMSHIP Not only was the Titanic the largest steamship afloat but it was the most luxurious . 
Elaborately furnished cabins opened onto her eleven decks , and some of these decks were reserved as private promenades that were engaged with the best suites . 
One of these suites was sold for for the boat's maiden and only voyage . 
Suites similar , but which were without the private promenade decks , sold for . 
The Titanic differed in some respects from her sister ship . 
The Olympic has a lower promenade deck , but in the Titanic's case the staterooms were brought out flush with the outside of the superstructure , and the rooms themselves made much larger . 
The sitting rooms of some of the suites on this deck were x feet . 
Adjoining it was a reception room , where hosts and hostesses could meet their guests . 
Two private promenades were connected with the two most luxurious suites on the ship . 
The suites were situated about amidships , one on either side of the vessel , and each was about fifty feet long . 
One of the suites comprised a sitting room , two bedrooms and a bath . 
These private promenades were expensive luxuries . 
The cost figured out something like forty dollars a front foot for a six days' voyage . 
They , with the suites to which they are attached , were the most expensive transatlantic accommodations yet offered . 
THE ENGINE ROOM The engine room was divided into two sections , one given to the reciprocating engines and the other to the turbines . 
There were two sets of the reciprocating kind , one working each of the wing propellers through a four cylinder triple expansion , direct acting inverted engine . 
Each set could generate , indicated horse power at seventy five revolutions a minute . 
Of the four funnels of the vessel three were connected with the engine room , and the fourth or after funnel for ventilating the ship including the gallery . 
Practically all of the space on the Titanic below the upper deck was occupied by steam generating plant , coal bunkers and propelling machinery . 
Eight of the fifteen water tight compartments contained the mechanical part of the vessel . 
There were , for instance , twenty four double end and five single end boilers , each feet inches in diameter , the larger feet long and the smaller feet inches long . 
The larger boilers had six fires under each of them and the smaller three furnaces . 
From there the stokers handed it into the furnaces . 
Perishable freight had a compartment of its own , also chilled by the plant . 
COMFORT AND STABILITY Two main ideas were carried out in the Titanic . 
One was comfort and the other stability . 
The vessel was planned to be an ocean ferry . 
One who has looked into modern methods for safeguarding illust . 
caption LIFE BOAT AND DAVITS ON THE TITANIC This diagram shows very clearly the arrangement of the life boats and the manner in which they were launched . 
a vessel of the Titanic type can hardly imagine an accident that could cause her to founder . 
Probably it was the working of these bulkheads and the water tight doors between them as they are supposed to work that saved the Titanic from foundering when she struck the iceberg . 
These bulkheads were of heavy sheet steel and started at the very bottom of the ship and extended right up to the top side . 
They could be released instantly in several ways , and once closed formed a barrier to the water as solid as the bulkhead itself . 
In the Titanic , as in other great modern ships , these doors were held in place above the openings by friction clutches . 
On the bridge was a switch which connected with an electric magnet at the side of the bulkhead opening . 
If , however , through accident the bridge switch was rendered useless the doors would close automatically in a few seconds . 
These clutches could also be released by hand . 
What a ship can stand and still float was shown a few years ago when the Suevic of the White Star Line went on the rocks on the British coast . 
More recently the battleship Maine , or what was left of her , was floated out to sea , and kept on top of the water by her water tight compartments only . 
CHAPTER III THE MAIDEN VOYAGE OF THE TITANIC PREPARATIONS FOR THE VOYAGE SCENES OF GAYETY THE BOAT SAILS INCIDENTS OF THE VOYAGE A COLLISION NARROWLY AVERTED THE BOAT ON FIRE WARNED OF ICEBERGS . 
Elaborate preparations had been made for the maiden voyage . 
Crowds of eager watchers gathered to witness the departure , all the more interested because of the notable people who were to travel aboard her . 
Friends and relatives of many of the passengers were at the dock to bid Godspeed to their departing loved ones . 
The passengers themselves were unusually gay and happy . 
Majestic and beautiful the ship rested on the water , marvel of shipbuilding , worthy of any sea . 
As this new queen of the ocean moved slowly from her dock , no one questioned her construction she was fitted with an elaborate system of illust . 
caption STEAMER TITANIC COMPARED WITH THE LARGEST STRUCTURES IN THE WORLD . 
caption J. BRUCE ISMAY Managing director of the International Mercantile Marine , and managing director of the White . 
caption CHARLES M. HAYS President of the Grand Trunk Pacific Railways , numbered among the heroic men . 
water tight compartments , calculated to make her unsinkable she had been pronounced the safest as well as the most sumptuous Atlantic liner afloat . 
There was silence just before the boat pulled out the silence that usually precedes the leave taking . 
The heavy whistles sounded and the splendid Titanic , her flags flying and her band playing , churned the water and plowed heavily away . 
THE SHIP'S CAPTAIN In command of the Titanic was Captain E. J. Smith , a veteran of the seas , and admiral of the White Star Line fleet . 
The next six officers , in the order of their rank , were Murdock , Lightollder , sic Pitman , Boxhall , Lowe and Moody . 
Dan Phillips was chief wireless operator , with Harold Bride as assistant . 
From far below the bridge sounded the strains of the ship's orchestra , playing blithely a favorite air from The Chocolate Soldier . 
All went as merry as a wedding bell . 
Indeed , among that gay ship's company were two score or more at least for whom the wedding bells had sounded in truth not many days before . 
The New York floated toward the White Star ship , and would have rammed the new ship had not the tugs Vulcan and Neptune stopped her and towed her back to the quay . 
After taking aboard some additional passengers at each port , the Titanic headed her towering bow toward the open sea and the race for a record on her maiden voyage was begun . 
NEW BURST OF SPEED EACH DAY The Titanic made miles as her first day's run , her powerful new engines turning over at the rate of seventy revolutions . 
On the second day out the speed was hit up to seventy three revolutions and the run for the day was bulletined as miles . 
Still further increasing the speed , the rate of revolution of the engines was raised to seventy five and the day's run was miles , the best yet scheduled . 
But the ship had not yet been speeded to her capacity she was capable of turning over about seventy eight revolutions . 
Had the weather conditions been propitious , it was intended to press the great racer to the full limit of her speed on Monday . 
But for the Titanic Monday never came . 
FIRE IN THE COAL BUNKERS Unknown to the passengers , the Titanic was on fire from the day she sailed from Southampton . 
Her officers and crew knew it , for they had fought the fire for days . 
This story , told for the first time by the survivors of the crew , was only one of the many thrilling tales of the fateful first voyage . 
The Titanic sailed from Southampton on Wednesday , April th , at noon , said J. Dilley , fireman on the Titanic . 
I was assigned to the Titanic from the Oceanic , where I had served as a fireman . 
From the day we sailed the Titanic was on fire , and my sole duty , together with eleven other men , had been to fight that fire . 
We had made no headway against it . 
PASSENGERS IN IGNORANCE Of course , he went on , the passengers knew nothing of the fire . 
Do you think we'd have let them know about it ? No , sir . 
The fire started in bunker No. . 
There were hundreds of tons of coal stored there . 
The dry coal at the bottom of the pile took fire , and smoldered for days . 
The wet coal on top kept the flames from coming through , but down in the bottom of the bunkers the flames were raging . 
Two men from each watch of stokers were tolled off , to fight that fire . 
The stokers worked four hours at a time , so twelve of us were fighting flames from the day we put out of Southampton until we hit the iceberg . 
The stokers were alarmed over it , but the officers told us to keep our mouths shut they didn't want to alarm the passengers . 
USUAL DIVERSION Until Sunday , April th , then , the voyage had apparently been a delightful but uneventful one . 
The smoking rooms and card rooms had been as well patronized as usual , and a party of several notorious professional gamblers had begun reaping their usual easy harvest . 
AN UNHEEDED WARNING On Sunday afternoon the Titanic's wireless operator forwarded to the Hydrographic office in Washington , Baltimore , Philadelphia and elsewhere the following dispatch April . 
reports by radio telegraph passing two large icebergs in latitude . 
S. S. Despite this warning , the Titanic forged ahead Sunday night at her usual speed from twenty one to twenty five knots . 
Many of these had purposely delayed sailing , or had hastened their departure , that they might be among the first passengers on the great vessel . 
There were aboard six men whose fortunes ran into tens of millions , besides many other persons of international note . 
Among the men were leaders in the world of commerce , finance , literature , art and the learned professions . 
Many of the women were socially prominent in two hemispheres . 
Wealth and fame , unfortunately , are not proof against fate , and most of these notable personages perished as pitiably as the more humble steerage passengers . 
Colonel Washington Roebling , builder of the great Brooklyn Bridge Charles M. Hays , president of the Grand Trunk Railway W. T. Stead . 
famous publicist Jacques Futrelle , journalist Henry S. Harper , of the firm of Harper Bros . 
Henry B. Harris , theatrical manager Major Archibald Butt , military aide to President Taft and Francis D. Millet , one of the best known American painters . 
MAJOR BUTT Major Archibald Butt , whose bravery on the sinking vessel will not soon be forgotten , was military aide to President Taft and was known wherever the President traveled . 
Major Butt had a reputation as a horseman , and it is said he was able to keep up with President Roosevelt , be the ride ever so far or fast . 
He was promoted to the rank of major in . 
He sailed for the Mediterranean on March d with his friend Francis D. Millet , the artist , who also perished on the Titanic . 
He was head of the family whose name he bore and one of the world's wealthiest men . 
He was not , however , one of the world's idle rich , for his life of forty seven years was a well filled one . 
He was also the inventor of a bicycle brake , a pneumatic road improver , and an improved turbine engine . 
BENJAMIN GUGGENHEIM Next to Colonel Astor in financial importance was Benjamin Guggenheim , whose father founded the famous house of M. Guggenheim and Sons . 
In he married Miss Floretta Seligman , daughter of James Seligman , the New York banker . 
and L. Straus Sons , a member of the firm of Abraham Straus in Brooklyn , and has been well known in politics and charitable work . 
He was a member of the Fifty third Congress from to , and as a friend of William L. Wilson was in constant consultation in the matter of the former Wilson tariff bill . 
Mr. Straus was conspicuous for his works of charity and was an ardent supporter of every enterprise to improve the condition of the Hebrew immigrants . 
Mr. Straus never enjoyed a college education . 
He was , however , one of the best informed men of the day , his information having been derived from extensive reading . 
His library , said to be one of the finest and most extensive in New York , was his pride and his place of special recreation . 
caption ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPH OF THE ICEBERG THAT SUNK THE TITANIC Lady Duff Gordon , a prominent English woman who was aboard the . 
caption HEART BREAKING FAREWELLS Both men and women were loaded into the first boats , but soon the cry of Women first was raised . 
Then came the real note of tragedy . 
Husbands and wives clung to each other in farewell some refused to be separated . 
GEORGE D. WIDENER The best known of Philadelphia passengers aboard the Titanic were Mr. and Mrs. George D. Widener . 
Mr. Widener married Miss Eleanor Elkins , a daughter of the late William L. Elkins . 
They made their home with his father at the latter's fine place at Eastbourne , ten miles from Philadelphia . 
Mr. Widener was keenly interested in horses and was a constant exhibitor at horse shows . 
In business he was recognized as his father's chief adviser in managing the latter's extensive traction interests . 
P. A. B. Widener is a director of the International Mercantile Marine . 
Mrs. Widener is said to be the possessor of one of the finest collections of jewels in the world , the gift of her husband . 
One string of pearls in this collection was reported to be worth , . 
The Wideners went abroad two months previous to the disaster , Mr. Widener desiring to inspect some of his business interests on the other side . 
Mr. Widener is survived by a daughter , Eleanor , and a son , George D. Widener , Jr . 
Harry Elkins Widener was with his parents and went down on the ship . 
COLONEL ROEBLING Colonel Washington Augustus Roebling was president of the John A. Roebling Sons' Company , manufacturers of iron and steel wire rope . 
He served in the Union Army from to , resigning to assist his father in the construction of the Cincinnati and Covington suspension bridge . 
WILLIAM T. STEAD One of the most notable of the foreign passengers was William T. Stead . 
Few names are more widely known to the world of contemporary literature and journalism than that of the brilliant editor of the Review of Reviews . 
Matthew Arnold called him the inventor of the new journalism in England . 
Mr. Stead was an earnest advocate of peace and had written many books . 
His commentary If Christ Came to Chicago raised a storm twenty years ago . 
J. BRUCE ISMAY Mr. Ismay is president and one of the founders of the International Mercantile Marine . 
He has made it a custom to be a passenger on the maiden voyage of every new ship built by the White Star Line . 
Newspaper work , chiefly in Richmond , Va . 
, engaged his attention from to , in which year he entered the theatrical business as a manager . 
In he returned to his journalistic career . 
HENRY B. HARRIS Henry B. Harris , the theater manager , had been manager of May Irwin , Peter Dailey , Lily Langtry , Amelia Bingham , and launched Robert Edeson as star . 
He became the manager of the Hudson Theater in and the Hackett Theater in . 
Among his best known productions are The Lion and the Mouse , The Traveling Salesman and The Third Degree . 
He was president of the Henry B. Harris Company controlling the Harris Theater . 
Young Harris had a liking for the theatrical business from a boy . 
Twelve years ago Mr. Harris married Miss Rene Wallach of Washington . 
He was said to have a fortune of between , , and , , . 
He owned outright the Hudson and the Harris theaters and had an interest in two other show houses in New York . 
He owned three theaters in Chicago , one in Syracuse and one in Philadelphia . 
HENRY S. HARPER Henry Sleeper Harper , who was among the survivors , is a grandson of John Wesley Harper , one of the founders of the Harper publishing business . 
H. Sleeper Harper was himself an incorporator of Harper Brothers when the firm became a corporation in . 
He had a desk in the offices of the publishers , but his hand of late years in the management of the business has been very slight . 
He has been active in the work of keeping the Adirondack forests free from aggression . 
He was in the habit of spending about half of his time in foreign travel . 
His friends in New York recalled that he had a narrow escape about ten years ago when a ship in which he was traveling ran into an iceberg on the Grand Banks . 
FRANCIS DAVID MILLET Millet was one of the best known American painters and many of his canvasses are found in the leading galleries of the world . 
He served as a drummer boy with the Sixtieth Massachusetts volunteers in the Civil War , and from early manhood took a prominent part in public affairs . 
He was director of the decorations for the Chicago Exposition and was , at the time of the disaster , secretary of the American Academy in Rome . 
He was a wide traveler and the author of many books , besides translations of Tolstoi . 
CHARLES M. HAYS Another person of prominence was Charles Melville Hays , president of the Grand Trunk and the Grand Trunk Pacific railways . 
He was returning aboard the Titanic with his wife and son in law and daughter Mr. and Mrs. Thornton Davidson , of Montreal . 
The night was clear and stars visible . 
First Officer William T. Murdock was in charge of the bridge The first intimation of the presence of the iceberg that he received was from the lookout in the crow's nest . 
Three warnings were transmitted from the crow's nest of the Titanic to the officer on the doomed steamship's bridge minutes before she struck , according to Thomas Whiteley , a first saloon steward . 
He heard a conversation between them , he asserted , in which they discussed the warnings given to the Titanic's bridge of the presence of the iceberg . 
Whiteley did not know the names of either of the lookout men and believed that they returned to England with the majority of the surviving members of the crew . 
caption A GRAPHIC ILLUSTRATION OF THE FORCE WITH WHICH A VESSEL STRIKES AN ICEBERG I heard one of them say that at . 
o'clock , minutes before the Titanic struck , he had reported to First Officer Murdock , on the bridge , that he fancied he saw an iceberg ! said Whiteley . 
Twice after that , the lookout said , he warned Murdock that a berg was ahead . 
They were very indignant that no attention was paid to their warnings . 
TARDY ATTENTION TO WARNING RESPONSIBLE FOR ACCIDENT Murdock's tardy answering of a telephone call from the crow's nest is assigned by Whiteley as the cause of the disaster . 
When Murdock answered the call he received the information that the iceberg was due ahead . 
The lookout saw a towering blue berg looming up in the sea path of the Titanic , and called the bridge on the ship's telephone . 
When , after the passing of those two or three fateful minutes an officer on the bridge lifted the telephone receiver from its hook to answer the lookout , it was too late . 
At the worst the vessel would probably have struck the mass of ice with her stern . 
The maneuver was not successful . 
He succeeded in saving his bows from crashing into the ice cliff , but nearly the entire length of the underbody of the great ship on the starboard side was ripped . 
It was really an ice pack , due to an unusually severe winter in the north Atlantic . 
No less than twenty five bergs , some of great height , were counted . 
The shock was almost imperceptible . 
Hundreds who had gone to their berths and were asleep were unawakened by the vibration . 
The four calmly got up from the table and after walking on deck and looking over the rail returned to their game . 
The bow was slowly sinking into the black water . 
THE CAPTAIN ON DECK When Captain Smith came from the chart room onto the bridge , his first words were , Close the emergency doors . 
They're already closed , sir , Mr. Murdock replied . 
Send to the carpenter and tell him to sound the ship , was the next order . 
The message was sent to the carpenter , but the carpenter never came up to report . 
He was probably the first man on the ship to lose his life . 
The captain then looked at the communicator , which shows in what direction the ship is listing . 
He saw that she carried five degrees list to starboard . 
The ship was then rapidly settling forward . 
All the steam sirens were blowing . 
All hands were ordered on deck . 
PASSENGERS NOT ALARMED The blasting shriek of the sirens had not alarmed the great company of the Titanic , because such steam calls are an incident of travel in seas where fogs roll . 
Many had gone to bed , but the hour , . 
P. M. , was not too late for the friendly contact of saloons and smoking rooms . 
And in one jarring , breath sweeping moment all of these , asleep or awake , were at the mercy of chance . 
Few among the more than aboard could have had a thought of danger . 
No ship ever sailed the seas that gave her passengers more confidence , more cool security . 
Within a few minutes stewards and other members of the crew were sent round to arouse the people . 
Some utterly refused to get up . 
ASTOR AND WIFE STROLLED ON DECK Colonel and Mrs. Astor were in their room and saw the ice vision flash by . 
They had not appreciably felt the gentle shock and supposed that nothing out of the ordinary had happened . 
They were both dressed and came on deck leisurely . 
William T. Stead , the London journalist , wandered on deck for a few minutes , stopping to talk to Frank Millet . 
What do they say is the trouble ? he asked . 
Icebergs , was the brief reply . 
Well , said Stead , I guess it is nothing serious . 
I'm going back to my cabin to read . 
From end to end on the mighty boat officers were rushing about without much noise or confusion , but giving orders sharply . 
Captain Smith told the third officer to rush downstairs and see whether the water was coming in very fast . 
And , he added , take some armed guards along to see that the stokers and engineers stay at their posts . 
In two minutes the officer returned . 
It looks pretty bad , sir , he said . 
The water is rushing in and filling the bottom . 
The locks of the water tight compartments have been sprung by the shock . 
Give the command for all passengers to be on deck with life belts on . 
Through the length and breadth of the boat , upstairs and downstairs , on all decks , the cry rang out All passengers on deck with life preservers . 
A SUDDEN TREMOR OF FEAR For the first time , there was a feeling of panic . 
Husbands sought for wives and children . 
Many who were asleep hastily caught up their clothing and rushed on deck . 
A moment before the men had been joking about the life belts , according to the story told by Mrs. Vera Dick , of Calgary , Canada . 
Try this one , one man said to her , they are the very latest thing this season . 
Another man suggested to a woman friend , who had a fox terrier in her arms , that she should put a life saver on the dog . 
It won't fit , the woman replied , laughing . 
Make him carry it in his mouth , said the friend . 
CONFUSION AMONG THE IMMIGRANTS Below , on the steerage deck , there was intense confusion . 
The women were ordered to the front , the men to the rear . 
Half a dozen healthy , husky immigrants pushed their way forward and tried to crowd into the first boat . 
Stand back , shouted the officers who were manning the boat . 
Shouting curses in various foreign languages , the immigrant men continued their pushing and tugging to climb into the boats . 
One big fellow fell over the railing into the water . 
Another dropped to the deck , moaning . 
His jaw had been shot away . 
This was the story told by the bystanders afterwards on the pier . 
One husky Italian told the writer on the pier that the way in which the men were shot down was horrible . 
His sympathy was with the men who were shot . 
They were only trying to save their lives , he said . 
Yes , old man , the Titanic wireless operator responded . 
He said afterwards he was among those rescued that he realized at once that the negro intended to kill the operator in order to take his life belt from him . 
The second operator pulled out his revolver and shot the negro dead . 
What was the trouble ? asked the operator . 
That negro was going to kill you and steal your life belt , the second man replied . 
Thanks , old man , said the operator . 
The second man went on deck to get some more information . 
He was just in time to jump overboard before the Titanic went down . 
The wireless operator and the body of the negro who tried to steal his belt went down together . 
On the deck where the first class passengers were quartered , known as deck A , there was none of the confusion that was taking place on the lower decks . 
The Titanic was standing without much rocking . 
The captain had given an order and the band was playing . 
caption WAITING FOR THE NEWS A Bird's eye view of the great crowds . 
caption WIRELESS STATION AT CAPE RACE Where the first news of the Titanic disaster was received . 
In the same way H. J. Allison , a Montreal banker , laughed at the warning , and his wife , reassured by him , took her time dressing . 
They and their daughter did not reach the Carpathia . 
Their son , less than two years old , was carried into a life boat by his nurse , and was taken in charge by Major Arthur Peuchen . 
The pulsing of the engines had ceased , and the steamship lay just as though she were awaiting the order to go on again after some trifling matter had been adjusted . 
But in a few minutes the canvas covers were lifted from the life boats and the crews allotted to each standing by , ready to lower them to the water . 
Nearly all the boats that were lowered on the port side of the ship touched the water without capsizing . 
Four of the others lowered to starboard , including one collapsible , were capsized . 
All , however , who were in the collapsible boats that practically went to pieces , were rescued by the other boats . 
Presently the order was heard All men stand back and all women retire to the deck below . 
That was the smoking room deck , or the B deck . 
The men stood away and remained in absolute silence , leaning against the rail or pacing up and down the deck slowly . 
Many of them lighted cigars or cigarettes and began to smoke . 
LOADING THE BOATS The boats were swung out and lowered from the A deck above . 
The women were marshaled quietly in lines along the B deck , and when the boats were lowered down to the level of the latter the women were assisted to climb into them . 
As each of the boats was filled with its quota of passengers the word was given and it was carefully lowered down to the dark surface of the water . 
Nobody seemed to know how Mr. Ismay got into a boat , but it was assumed that he wished to make a presentation of the case of the Titanic to his company . 
He was among those who apparently realized that the splendid ship was doomed . 
COOLEST MEN ON BOARD Captain Smith and Major Archibald Butt , military aide to the President of the United States , were among the coolest men on board . 
A number of steerage passengers were yelling and screaming and fighting to get to the boats . 
Officers drew guns and told them that if they moved towards the boats they would be shot dead . 
Major Butt had a gun in his hand and covered the men who tried to get to the boats . 
The following story of his bravery was told by Mrs. Henry B. Harris , wife of the theatrical manager The world should rise in praise of Major Butt . 
That man's conduct will remain in my memory forever . 
The American army is honored by him and the way he taught some of the other men how to behave when women and children were suffering that awful mental fear of death . 
Major Butt was near me and I noticed everything that he did . 
When the order to man the boats came , the captain whispered something to Major Butt . 
The two of them had become friends . 
The major immediately became as one in supreme command . 
You would have thought he was at a White House reception . 
A dozen or more women became hysterical all at once , as something connected with a life boat went wrong . 
Major Butt stepped over to them and said Really , you must not act like that we are all going to see you through this thing . 
He helped the sailors rearrange the rope or chain that had gone wrong and lifted some of the women in with a touch of gallantry . 
Not only was there a complete lack of any fear in his manner , but there was the action of an aristocrat . 
When the time came he was a man to be feared . 
In one of the earlier boats fifty women , it seemed , were about to be lowered , when a man , suddenly panic stricken , ran to the stern of it . 
Major Butt shot one arm out , caught him by the back of the neck and jerked him backward like a pillow . 
His head cracked against a rail and he was stunned . 
Sorry , said Major Butt , women will be attended to first or I'll break every damned bone in your body . 
FORCED MEN USURPING PLACES TO VACATE The boats were lowered one by one , and as I stood by , my husband said to me , Thank God , for Archie Butt . 
Perhaps Major Butt heard it , for he turned his face towards us for a second and smiled . 
Major Butt helped those poor frightened steerage people so wonderfully , so tenderly and yet with such cool and manly firmness that he prevented the loss of many lives from panic . 
He was a soldier to the last . 
He was one of God's greatest noblemen , and I think I can say he was an example of bravery even to men on the ship . 
Archie himself put me into the boat , wrapped blankets about me and tucked me in as carefully as if we were starting on a motor ride . 
When he had carefully wrapped me up he stepped upon the gunwale of the boat , and lifting his hat , smiled down at me . 
Good bye , Miss Young , he said . 
Good luck to you , and don't forget to remember me to the folks back home . 
Then he stepped back and waved his hand to me as the boat was lowered . 
I think I was the last woman he had a chance to help , for the boat went down shortly after we cleared the suction zone . 
COLONEL ASTOR ANOTHER HERO Colonel Astor was another of the heroes of the awful night . 
I saw that she was prostrated and said she would remain and take her chances with him , but Colonel Astor quietly insisted and tried to reassure her in a few words . 
As she took her place in the boat her eyes were fixed upon him . 
Colonel Astor smiled , touched his cap , and when the boat moved safely away from the ship's side he turned back to his place among the men . 
We saw Colonel Astor place Mrs. Astor in a boat and assure her that he would follow later , said Mrs. Hippach . 
He turned to us with a smile and said , Ladies , you are next . 
The officer in charge of the boat protested that the craft was full , and the seamen started to lower it . 
Colonel Astor exclaimed , Hold that boat , in the voice of a man accustomed to be obeyed , and they did as he ordered . 
caption LOADING THE LIFE BOATS Here occurred the heart rending separation of husbands and wives , as the women were given precedence in the boats . 
HEART BREAKING SCENES There were some terrible scenes . 
Fathers were parting from their children and giving them an encouraging pat on the shoulders men were kissing their wives and telling them that they would be with them shortly . 
One man said there was absolutely no danger , that the boat was the finest ever built , with water tight compartments , and that it could not sink . 
That seemed to be the general impression . 
A few of the men , however , were panic stricken even when the first of the fifty six foot life boats was being filled . 
Fully ten men threw themselves into the boats already crowded with women and children . 
These men were dragged back and hurled sprawling across the deck . 
Six of them , screamed with fear , struggled to their feet and made a second attempt to rush to the boats . 
About ten shots sounded in quick succession . 
The six cowardly men were stopped in their tracks , staggered and collapsed one after another . 
At least two of them vainly attempted to creep toward the boats again . 
The others lay quite still . 
This scene of bloodshed served its purpose . 
In that particular section of the deck there was no further attempt to violate the rule of women and children first . 
I helped fill the boats with women , said Thomas Whiteley , who was a waiter on the Titanic . 
Collapsible boat No. on the starboard jammed . 
In some way I got overboard myself and clung to an oak dresser . 
I wasn't more than sixty feet from the Titanic when she went down . 
Her big stern rose up in the air and she went down bow first . 
I saw all the machinery drop out of her . 
HENRY B. HARRIS Henry B. Harris , of New York , a theatrical manager , was one of the men who showed superb courage in the crisis . 
When the life boats were first being filled , and before there was any panic , Mr. Harris went to the side of his wife before the boat was lowered away . 
Women first , shouted one of the ship's officers . 
Mr. Harris glanced up and saw that the remark was addressed to him . 
All right , he replied coolly . 
Good bye , my dear , he said , as he kissed his wife , pressed her a moment to his breast , and then climbed back to the Titanic's deck . 
THREE EXPLOSIONS Up to this time there had been no panic but about one hour before the ship plunged to the bottom there were three separate explosions of bulkheads as the vessel filled . 
These were at intervals of about fifteen minutes . 
From that time there was a different scene . 
The rush for the remaining boats became a stampede . 
The stokers rushed up from below and tried to beat a path through the steerage men and women and through the sailors and officers , to get into the boats . 
They had their iron bars and shovels , and they struck down all who stood in their way . 
The first to come up from the depths of the ship was an engineer . 
From what he is reported to have said it is probable that the steam fittings were broken and many were scalded to death when the Titanic lifted . 
He said he had to dash through a narrow place beside a broken pipe and his back was frightfully scalded . 
Right at his heels came the stokers . 
The officers had pistols , but they could not use them at first for fear of killing the women and children . 
The sailors fought with their fists and many of them took the stoke bars and shovels from the stokers and used them to beat back the others . 
Several of the survivors said that men who swam to the sides of their boats were pulled in or climbed in . 
Dozens of the cabin passengers were witnesses of some of the frightful scenes on the steerage deck . 
OTHER HEROES Among the chivalrous young heroes of the Titanic disaster were Washington A. Roebling , d , and Howard Case , London representative of the Vacuum Oil Company . 
Both were urged repeatedly to take places in life boats , but scorned the opportunity , while working against time to save the women aboard the ill fated ship . 
They went to their death , it is said by survivors , with smiles on their faces . 
Afterwards relating some of her experiences Mrs. Graham said There was a rap at the door . 
It was a passenger whom we had met shortly after the ship left Liverpool , and his name was Roebling Washington A. Roebling , d . 
He was a gentleman and a brave man . 
He warned us of the danger and told us that it would be best to be prepared for an emergency . 
We heeded his warning , and I looked out of my window and saw a great big iceberg facing us . 
Immediately I knew what had happened and we lost no time after that to get out into the saloon . 
In one of the gangways I met an officer of the ship . 
What is the matter ? I asked him . 
We've only burst two pipes , he said . 
Everything is all right , don't worry . 
But what makes the ship list so ? I asked . 
Oh , that's nothing , he replied , and walked away . 
Mr. Case advised us to get into a boat . 
And what are you going to do ? we asked him . 
Oh , he replied , I'll take a chance and stay here . 
Just at that time they were filling up the third life boat on the port side of the ship . 
Just then Mr. Roebling came up , too , and told us to hurry and get into the third boat . 
Mr. Roebling and Mr. Case bustled our party of three into that boat in less time than it takes to tell it . 
They were both working hard to help the women and children . 
They shouted good bye to us . 
What do you think Mr. Case did then ? He just calmly lighted a cigarette and waved us good bye with his hand . 
Mr. Roebling stood there , too I can see him now . 
I am sure that he knew that the ship would go to the bottom . 
But both just stood there . 
In that hour , when cherished illusions of possible safety had all but vanished , manhood and womanhood aboard the Titanic rose to their sublimest heights . 
It was in that crisis of the direst extremity that many brave women deliberately rejected life and chose rather to remain and die with the men whom they loved . 
DEATH FAILS TO PART MR . 
STRAUS I will not leave my husband , said Mrs. Isidor Straus . 
Thus they stood hand in hand and heart to heart , comforting each other until the sea claimed them , united in death as they had been through a long life . 
Greater love hath no man than this , that a man lay down his life for his friends . 
Miss Elizabeth Evans fulfilled this final test of affection laid down by the Divine Master . 
The girl was the niece of the wife of Magistrate Cornell , of New York . 
She was placed in the same boat with many other women . 
As it was about to be lowered away it was found that the craft contained one more than its full quota of passengers . 
The grim question arose as to which of them should surrender her place and her chance of safety . 
Beside Miss Evans sat Mrs. J. J. Brown , of Denver , the mother of several children . 
Miss Evans was the first to volunteer to yield to another . 
GIRL STEPS BACK TO DOOM Your need is greater than mine , said she to Mrs. Brown . 
You have children who need you , and I have none . 
So saying she arose from the boat and stepped back upon the deck . 
The girl found no later refuge and was one of those who went down with the ship . 
She was twenty five years old and was beloved by all who knew her . 
Mrs. Brown thereafter showed the spirit which had made her also volunteer to leave the boat . 
There were only three men in the boat and but one of them rowed . 
Mrs. Brown , who was raised on the water , immediately picked up one of the heavy sweeps and began to pull . 
In the boat which carried Mrs. Cornell and Mrs. Appleton there were places for seventeen more than were carried . 
This too was undermanned and the two women at once took their places at the oars . 
The Countess of Rothes was pulling at the oars of her boat , likewise undermanned because the crew preferred to stay behind . 
Miss Bentham , of Rochester , showed splendid courage . 
Miss Bentham arose from her place and had the man turn around while she took her place with her feet in the water . 
Scarcely any of the life boats were properly manned . 
Two , filled with women and children , capsized immediately , while the collapsible boats were only temporarily useful . 
They soon filled with water . 
In one boat eighteen or twenty persons sat in water above their knees for six hours . 
caption In the darkness and confusion , punctuated by screams , sobs and curses , the boats were lowered after being filled with women , children and a few men . 
The sketch , drawn from description of eye witnesses , shows the lofty side of the stricken vessel and the laden boats descending . 
THE LIFE BOATS BEING LOWERED illust . 
caption Copyright by Underwood Underwood , N. Y. illust . 
caption Copyright by Underwood Underwood , N. Y. LIFE BOATS , AS SEEN FROM THE CARPATHIA Photographs taken from the rescue ship as she reached the first boats carrying the Titanic's sufferers . 
heard it , but have forgotten it . 
But I saw an order for five pounds which this man gave to each of the crew of his boat after they got aboard the Carpathia . 
It was on a piece of ordinary paper addressed to the Coutts Bank of England . 
We called that boat the money boat . 
It was lowered from the starboard side and was one of the first off . 
Our orders were to load the life boats beginning forward on the port side , working aft and then back on the starboard . 
This man paid the firemen to lower a starboard boat before the officers had given the order . 
Whiteley's own experience was a hard one . 
I floated on my life preserver for several hours , he said , then I came across a big oak dresser with two men clinging to it . 
I hung on to this till daybreak and the two men dropped off . 
When the sun came up I saw the collapsible raft in the distance , just black with men . 
They were all standing up , and I swam to it almost a mile , it seemed to me and they would not let me aboard . 
Mr. Lightoller , the second officer , was one of them . 
It's thirty one lives against yours , , he said , you can't come aboard . 
I pleaded with him in vain , and then I confess I prayed that somebody might die , so I could take his place . 
And then some one did die , and they let me aboard . 
By and by , we saw seven life boats lashed together , and we were taken into them . 
Robert Daniel , a Philadelphia passenger , told of terrible scenes at this period of the disaster . 
He said men fought and bit and struck one another like madmen , and exhibited wounds upon his face to prove the assertion . 
Mr. Daniel said that he was picked up naked from the ice cold water and almost perished from exposure before he was rescued . 
He and others told how the Titanic's bow was completely torn away by the impact with the berg . 
He believed the machinery was in some way so damaged by the crash that the front compartments failed to close tightly , although the rear ones were secure . 
Whiteman's manner of escape was unique . 
The explosions , Whiteman said were caused by the rushing in of the icy water on the boilers . 
The bow went clean down , and I caught the pile of chairs as I was washed up against the rim . 
Then came the explosions which blew me fifteen feet . 
After the water had filled the forward compartments , the ones at the stern could not save her , although they did delay the ship's going down . 
If it wasn't for the compartments hardly anyone could have got away . 
I am willing to remain and play the man's game , if there are not enough boats for more than the women and children . 
I won't die here like a beast . 
I'll meet my end as man . 
No woman shall be left aboard this ship because Ben Guggenheim was a coward . 
Tell her that my last thoughts will be of her and of our girls , but that my duty now is to these unfortunate women and children on this ship . 
Tell her I will meet whatever fate is in store for me , knowing she will approve of what I do . 
In telling the story the room steward said the last he saw of Mr. Guggenheim was when he stood fully dressed upon the upper deck talking calmly with Colonel Astor and Major Butt . 
THE SINKING VESSEL Richard Norris Williams , Jr . 
, one of the survivors of the Titanic , saw his father killed by being crushed by one of the tremendous funnels of the sinking vessel . 
We stood on deck watching the life boats of the Titanic being filled and lowered into the water , said Mr. Williams . 
The water was nearly up to our waists and the ship was about at her last . 
Suddenly one of the great funnels fell . 
I sprang aside , endeavoring to pull father with me . 
A moment later the funnel was swept overboard and the body of father went with it . 
I sprang overboard and swam through the ice to a life raft , and was pulled aboard . 
There were five men and one woman on the raft . 
Occasionally we were swept off into the sea , but always managed to crawl back . 
A sailor lighted a cigarette and flung the match carelessly among the women . 
Several screamed , fearing they would be set on fire . 
The sailor replied We are going to hell anyway and we might as well be cremated now as then . 
A huge cake of ice was the means of aiding Emile Portaleppi , of Italy , in his hairbreadth escape from death when the Titanic went down . 
Portaleppi , a second class passenger , was awakened by the explosion of one of the bulkheads of the ship . 
He hurried to the deck , strapped a life preserver around him and leaped into the sea . 
With the aid of the preserver and by holding to a cake of ice he managed to keep afloat until one of the life boats picked him up . 
There were thirty five other people in the boat , he said , when he was hauled aboard . 
His identity is not yet known , though it will be in good time . 
So foul an act as that will out like murder . 
Surely he was born and saved to set for men a new standard by which to measure infamy and shame . 
It is well that there was sufficient heroism on board the Titanic to neutralize the horrors of the cowardice . 
The officers tried to pick out the ones that volunteered merely for service and to eliminate those who volunteered merely to save their own lives . 
This elimination process however , was not wholly successful . 
They were followed immediately by others , and in a few minutes there were scores swimming around . 
Nearly all of them wore life preservers . 
One man , who had a Pomeranian dog , leaped overboard with it and striking a piece of wreckage was badly stunned . 
He recovered after a few minutes and swam toward one of the life boats and was taken aboard . 
Said one survivor , speaking of the men who remained on the ship . 
Never have I seen such chivalry and fortitude . 
Such courage in the face of fate horrible to contemplate filled us even then with wonder and admiration . 
There were men whose word of command swayed boards of directors , governed institutions , disposed of millions . 
They were accustomed merely to pronounce a wish to have it gratified . 
To many of those who went it was harder to go than to stay there on the vessel gaping with its mortal wounds and ready to go down . 
It was the tradition of Anglo Saxon heroism that was fulfilled in the frozen seas during the black hours of Sunday night . 
Confidence in the ability of the Titanic to remain afloat doubtlessly led many of the passengers to death . 
The theory that the great ship was unsinkable remained with hundreds who had entrusted themselves to the gigantic hulk , long after the officers knew that the vessel could not survive . 
Narratives of survivors do not bear out the supposition that the final hours upon the vessel's decks were passed in darkness . 
Just before she sank , some of the refugees say , the ship broke in two abaft the engine room after the bulkhead explosions had occurred . 
COLONEL ASTOR'S DEATH To Colonel Astor's death Philip Mock bears this testimony . 
Many men were hanging on to rafts in the sea . 
William T. Stead and Colonel Astor were among them . 
Their feet and hands froze and they had to let go . 
The last man among the survivors to speak to Colonel Astor was K. Whiteman , the ship's barber . 
I shaved Colonel Astor Sunday afternoon , said Whiteman . 
Where is your life belt ? I asked him . 
I didn't think there would be any need of it , he said . 
Get one while there is time , I told him . 
The last boat is gone , and we are done for . 
No , he said , I think there are some life boats to be launched , and we may get on one of them . 
There are no life rafts , I told him , and the ship is going to sink . 
I am going to jump overboard and take a chance on swimming out and being picked up by one of the boats . 
No , thank you , he said , calmly , I think I'll have to stick . 
I asked him if he would mind shaking hands with me . 
He said , With pleasure , gave me a hearty grip , and then I climbed up on the rail and jumped overboard . 
I was in the water nearly four hours before one of the boats picked me up . 
CAPTAIN WASHED OVERBOARD Murdock's last orders were to Quartermaster Moody and a few other petty officers who had taken their places in the rigid discipline of the ship and were lowering the boats . 
Captain Smith came up to him on the bridge several times and then rushed down again . 
They spoke to one another only in monosyllables . 
There were stories that Captain Smith , when he saw the ship actually going down , had committed suicide . 
There is no basis for such tales . 
The captain , according to the testimony of those who were near him almost until the last , was admirably cool . 
He carried a revolver in his hand , ready to use it on anyone who disobeyed orders . 
I want every man to act like a man for manhood's sake , he said , and if they don't , a bullet awaits the coward . 
With the revolver in his hand a fact that undoubtedly gave rise to the suicide theory the captain moved up and down the deck . 
He gave the order for each life boat to make off and he remained until every boat was gone . 
Standing on the bridge he finally called out the order Each man save himself . 
At that moment all discipline fled . 
It was the last call of death . 
If there had been any hope among those on board before , the hope now had fled . 
The Titanic was sinking rapidly by the head , with the twisting sidelong motion that was soon to aim her on her course two miles down . 
Murdock saw the skipper swept out but did not move . 
Captain Smith was but one of a multitude of lost at that moment . 
Murdock may have known that the last desperate thought of the gray mariner was to get upon his bridge and die in command . 
That the old man could not have done this may have had something to do with Murdock's suicidal inspiration . 
Of that no man may say or safely guess . 
The wave that swept the skipper out bore him almost to the thwart of a crowded life boat . 
Hands reached out , but he wrenched himself away , turned and swam back toward the ship . 
Some say that he said , Good bye , I'm going back to the ship . 
He disappeared for a moment , then reappeared where a rail was slipping under water . 
Cool and courageous to the end , loyal to his duty under the most difficult circumstances , he showed himself a noble captain , and he died a noble death . 
SAW BOTH OFFICERS PERISH Quartermaster Moody saw all this , watched the skipper scramble aboard again onto the submerged decks , and then vanish altogether in a great billow . 
As Moody's eye lost sight of the skipper in this confusion of waters it again shifted to the bridge , and just in time to see Murdock take his life . 
The man's face was turned toward him , Moody said , and he could not mistake it . 
Wherever Murdock's eye swept the water in that instant , before he drew his revolver , it looked upon veritable seas of drowning men and women . 
From the decks there came to him the shrieks and groans of the caged and drowning , for whom all hope of escape was utterly vanished . 
He evidently never gave a thought to the possibility of saving himself , his mind freezing with the horrors he beheld and having room for just one central idea swift extinction . 
The strains of the hymn and the frantic cries of the dying blended in a symphony of sorrow . 
Just before the Titanic disappeared from view men and women leaped from the stern . 
More than a hundred men , according to Colonel Gracie , jumped at the last . 
Gracie was among the number and he and the second officer were of the very few who were saved . 
As the vessel disappeared , the waves drowned the majestic illust . 
to miles out , where the Titanic struck an iceberg and sank . 
Over the Great Bank of Newfoundland the greatest depth is about fathoms , or feet . 
hymn which the musicians played as they went to their watery grave . 
The most authentic accounts agree that this hymn was not Nearer , My God , to Thee , which it seems had been illust . 
caption CARPATHIA The Cunard liner which brought the survivors of the Titanic to New York . 
caption THE HERO WIRELESS OPERATOR OF THE TITANIC Photograph of Harold . 
played shortly before , but Autumn , which is found in the Episcopal hymnal and which fits appropriately the situation on the Titanic in the last moments of pain and darkness there . 
It was a little lame schoolmaster , Tyrtaeus , who aroused the Spartans by his poetry and led them to victory against the foe . 
The way the band kept playing was a noble thing , says the wireless operator . 
How those brave fellows ever did it I cannot imagine . 
Perhaps that music , made in the face of death , would not have satisfied the exacting critical sense . 
Charles H. Lightoller , second officer of the Titanic , tells the story this way I stuck to the ship until the water came up to my ankles . 
The men stood quietly as if they were in church . 
They knew that they were in the sight of God that in a moment judgment would be passed upon them . 
Finally , the ship took a dive , reeling for a moment , then plunging . 
I was sucked to the side of the ship against the grating over the blower for the exhaust . 
There was another explosion , and I came to the surface . 
The ship seemed to be heaving tremendous sighs as she went down . 
I found myself not many feet from the ship , but on the other side of it . 
The ship had turned around while I was under the water . 
I came up near a collapsible life boat and grabbed it . 
Many men were in the water near me . 
They had jumped at the last minute . 
A funnel fell within four inches of me and killed one of the swimmers . 
Thirty clung to the capsized boat , and a life boat , with forty survivors in it already , finally took them off . 
George D. Widener and Harry Elkins Widener were among those who jumped at the last minute . 
So did Robert Williams Daniel . 
The three of them went down together . 
Daniel struck out , lashing the water with his arms until he had made a point far distant from the sinking monster of the sea . 
Later he was picked up by one of the passing life boats . 
The Wideners were not seen again , nor was John B. Thayer , who went down on the boat . 
AFLOAT WITH JACK THAYER Graphic accounts of the final plunge of the Titanic were related by two Englishmen , survivors by the merest chance . 
One of them struggled for hours to hold himself afloat on an overturned collapsible life boat , to one end of which John B. Thayer , Jr . 
, of Philadelphia , whose father perished , hung until rescued . 
The latter , a young man , had started for this country with his savings to seek his fortune , and lost all but his life . 
Mellers , like Quartermaster Moody , said Captain Smith did not commit suicide . 
The captain jumped from the bridge , Mellers declares , and he heard him say to his officers and crew You have done your duty , boys . 
Now every man for himself . 
Her four whistles kept up a deafening blast until the explosions , declare the men . 
I did not know the Thayer family well , declared Mr. Barkworth , but I had met young Thayer , a clear cut chap , and his father on the trip . 
The lad and I struggled in the water for several hours endeavoring to hold afloat by grabbing to the sides and end of an overturned life boat . 
Now and again we lost our grip and fell back into the water . 
I considered my fur overcoat helped to keep me afloat . 
I had a life preserver over it , under my arms , but it would not have held me up so well out of the water but for the coat . 
The fur of the coat seemed not to get wet through , and retained a certain amount of air that added to buoyance . 
I shall never part with it . 
There were three distinct explosions and the ship broke in the center . 
The bow settled headlong first , and the stern last . 
I was looking toward her from the raft to which young Thayer and I had clung . 
HOW CAPTAIN SMITH DIED Barkworth jumped , just before the Titanic went down . 
He said there were enough life preservers for all the passengers , but in the confusion many may not have known where to look for them . 
I was not far from where Captain Smith stood on the bridge , giving full orders to his men , said Mellers . 
The brave old seaman was crying , but he had stuck heroically to the last . 
He did not shoot himself . 
He jumped from the bridge when he had done all he could . 
I heard his final instructions to his crew , and recall that his last words were You have done your duty , boys . 
Now every man for himself . 
I thought I was doomed to go down with the rest . 
I stood on the deck , awaiting my fate , fearing to jump from the ship . 
Then came a grinding noise , followed by two others , and I was hurled into the deep . 
Great waves engulfed me , but I was not drawn toward the ship , so that I believe there was little suction . 
I swam about for more than one hour before I was picked up by a boat . 
This is an excerpt from his testimony before the Senate investigating committee What time did you leave the ship ? I didn't leave it . 
Did it leave you ? Yes , sir . 
Children shall hear that episode sung in after years and his own descendants shall recite it to their bairns . 
Mr. Lightoller acted as an officer and gentleman should , and he was not the only one . 
Here is a fac simile of the note illust . 
This note was given by Rogers to a woman he was helping into a life boat . 
The woman , who signed herself Survivor , inclosed the note with the following letter . 
You will find note that was handed to me as I was leaving the Titanic . 
Am stranger to this man , but think he was a card player . 
He helped me aboard a life boat and I saw him help others . 
Before we were lowered I saw him jump into the sea . 
If picked up I did not recognize him on the Carpathia . 
I don't think he was registered on the ship under his right name . 
Rogers' mother , Mrs. Mary A. Yates , an old woman , broke down when she learned son had perished . 
Thank God I know where he is now , she sobbed . 
I have not heard from him for two years . 
The last news I had from him he was in London . 
James Humphreys , a quartermaster , who commanded life boat No. , told a li t tle story that shows how these fifty lads met death . 
Humphreys said the boys were called to their regular posts in the main cabin entry and taken in charge by their captain , a steward . 
They were ordered to remain in the cabin and not get in the way . 
Throughout the first hour of confusion and terror these lads sat quietly on their benches in various parts of the first cabin . 
caption WHO HATH MEASURED THE WATERS IN THE HOLLOW OF HIS HAND . 
Isaiah XL xii were being taken , the bell boys scattered to all parts of the ship . 
Humphreys said he saw numbers of them smoking cigarettes and joking with the passengers . 
They seemed to think that their violation of the rule against smoking while on duty was a sufficient breach of discipline . 
Not one of them attempted to enter a life boat . 
Not one of them was saved . 
THE HEROES WHO REMAINED The women who left the ship the men who remained there is little to choose between them for heroism . 
The heroes who remained would have said , with Grenville . 
We have only done our duty , as a man is bound to do . 
They sought no palms or crowns of martyrdom . 
There was no debate as to whether the life of a financier , a master of business , was rated higher in the scale of values than that of an ignorant peasant mother . 
A woman was a woman , whether she wore rags or pearls . 
A life was given for a life , with no assertion that one was priceless and the other comparatively valueless . 
Many of those who elected to remain might have escaped . 
Chivalry is a mild appellation for their conduct . 
Some of the vaunted knights of old were desperate cowards by comparison . 
No matter what they believe about it , the effect is the same . 
He goes in tears to put together again the fragments of the few , small , pitiful things that belonged to him . 
Though Love may pine , and Reason chafe , There came a Voice without reply . 
The hearts of those who waited on the land , and agonized , and were impotent to save , have been laid upon the same altars of sacrifice . 
The mourning of those who will not be comforted rises from alien lands together with our own in a common broken intercession . 
And when she took unto herself a mate She must espouse the everlasting sea . 
Even so , for any progress of the race , there must be the ancient sacrifice of man's own stubborn heart , and all his pride . 
He must forever lay in dust life's glory dead . 
WEST WHERE MANHOOD PERISHED NOT illust . 
caption LOWERING OF THE LIFE BOATS FROM THE TITANIC It is easy to understand why . 
WHERE MANHOOD PERISHED NOT Where cross the lines of forty north And fifty fourteen west There rolls a wild and greedy sea With death upon its crest . 
No stone or wreath from human hands Will ever mark the spot Where fifteen hundred men went down , But Manhood perished not . 
Old Ocean takes but little heed Of human tears or woe . 
No shafts adorn the ocean graves , Nor weeping willows grow . 
Though countless joys and hopes and fears Were shattered at a breath , 'Tis something that the name of Man Did not go down to death . 
'Tis not an easy thing to die , E'en in the open air , Twelve hundred miles from home and friends , In a shroud of black despair . 
A wreath to crown the brow of man , And hide a former blot Will ever blossom o'er the waves Where Manhood perished not . 
Seaward and landward , J. G. Phillips , the Titanic's wireless man , had hurled the appeal for help . 
By fits and starts for the wireless was working unevenly and blurringly Phillips reached out to the world , crying the Titanic's peril . 
The early despatches from St . 
MANY LINES HEAR THE CALL Other rushing liners besides the Virginian heard the call and became on the instant something more than cargo carriers and passenger greyhounds . 
The Titanic's mate , the Olympic , the mightiest of the seagoers save the Titanic herself , turned in her tracks . 
All along the northern lane the miracle of the wireless worked for the distressed and sinking White Star ship . 
VIRGINIAN IN DESPERATE HASTE But the Virginian was nearest , barely miles away , and was the first to know of the Titanic's danger . 
She went about and headed under forced draught for the spot indicated in one of the last of Phillips' messages latitude . 
W. She is a fast ship , the Allan liner , and her wireless has told the story of how she stretched through the night to get up to the Titanic in time . 
There was need for all the power of her engines and all the experience and skill of her captain . 
The final fluttering Marconigrams that were released from the Titanic made it certain that the great ship with souls aboard was filling and in desperate peril . 
Further out at sea was the Cunarder , Carpathia , which left New York for the Mediterranean on April th . 
Round she went and plunged back westward to take a hand in saving life . 
And the third steamship within short sailing of the Titanic was the Allan liner Parisian away to the eastward , on her way from Glasgow to Halifax . 
W. Cape Race threw the appeal broadcast wherever his apparatus could carry . 
And it was not until seventeen hours after the Titanic had sunk that the words came out of the air as to her fate . 
There was a confusion and tangle of messages a jumble of rumors . 
Good tidings were trodden upon by evil . 
And no man knew clearly what was taking place in that stretch of waters where the giant icebergs were making a mock of all that the world knew best in ship building . 
TITANIC SENT OUT NO MORE NEWS It was at . 
A. M. , while the Virginian was still plunging eastward , that all communication from the Titanic ceased . 
The last word from the Titanic was that she was sinking . 
Then the sparking became fainter . 
The call was dying to nothing . 
The Virginian's operator labored over a blur of signals . 
So the Allan ship strove on , fearing that the worst had happened . 
It was this ominous silence that so alarmed the other vessels hurrying to the Titanic and that caused so much suspense here . 
Women wept for lost husbands and sons , sailors sobbed for the ship which had been their pride . 
Men choked back tears and sought to comfort the widowed . 
Perhaps , they said , other boats might have put off in another direction . 
They strove , though none too sure themselves , to convince the women of the certainty that a rescue ship would appear . 
In the distance the Titanic looked an enormous length , her great bulk outlined in black against the starry sky , every port hole and saloon blazing with light . 
But this was not yet quite the end . 
How far away were the cries from your life boat ? Several hundred yards , probably , some of them . 
Don't , sir , please ! I'd rather not talk about it . 
I'm sorry to press it , but what was it like ? Were the screams spasmodic ? It was one long continuous moan . 
The witness said the moans and cries continued an hour . 
Those in the life boats longed to return and pick up some of the poor drowning souls , but they feared this would mean swamping the boats and a further loss of life . 
It was hard to keep up hope . 
You can do no good by going back other lives will be lost if you try to do it . 
Try to calm yourself for the sake of the living . 
It may be that your husband will be picked up somewhere by one of the fishing boats . 
The woman who pleaded to go back , according to Mrs. Vera Dick , of Calgary , Canada , later tried to throw herself from the life boat . 
Even in Canada , where we have such clear nights , said Mrs. Dick , I have never seen such a clear sky . 
The stars were very bright and we could see the Titanic plainly , like a great hotel on the water . 
Floor after floor of the lights went out as we watched . 
It was horrible , horrible . 
I can't bear to think about it . 
From the distance , as we rowed away , we could hear the band playing Nearer , My God to Thee . 
To realize it , you would have to see the Titanic as I saw it the day we set sail with the flags flying and the bands playing . 
Everybody on board was laughing and talking about the Titanic being the biggest and most luxurious boat on the ocean and being unsinkable . 
To think of it then and to think of it standing out there in the night , wounded to death and gasping for life , is almost too big for the imagination . 
SCANTILY CLAD WOMEN IN LIFE BOATS The women on our boat were in nightgowns and bare feet some of them and the wealthiest women mingled with the poorest immigrants . 
One immigrant woman kept shouting My God , my poor father ! He put me in this boat and would not save himself . 
Oh , why didn't I die , why didn't I die ? Why can't I die now ? We had to restrain her , else she would have Jumped over board . 
Some of the men apparently had said they could row just to get into the boats . 
We paid no attention to cowardice , however . 
We were all busy with our own troubles . 
My heart simply bled for the women who were separated from their husbands . 
The night was frightfully cold , although clear . 
We had to huddle together to keep warm . 
Everybody drank sparingly of the water and ate sparingly of the bread . 
We did not know when we would be saved . 
Everybody tried to remain cool , except the poor creatures who could think of nothing but their own great loss . 
Those with the most brains seemed to control themselves best . 
The girl said Mrs. Widener bravely toiled throughout the night and consoled other women who had broken down under the strain . 
Mrs. William E. Carter and Mrs. John B. Thayer were in the same life boat and worked heroically to keep it free from the icy menace . 
In telling of her experience Mrs. Carter said When I went over the side with my children and got in the boat there were no seamen in it . 
Then came a few men , but there were oars with no one to use them . 
The boat had been filled with passengers , and there was nothing else for me to do but to take an oar . 
We could see now that the time of the ship had come . 
She was sinking , and we were warned by cries from the men above to pull away from the ship quickly . 
Mrs. Thayer , wife of the vice president of the Pennsylvania Railroad , was in my boat , and she , too , took an oar . 
It was cold and we had no time to clothe ourselves with warm overcoats . 
We started to pull away from the ship . 
We could see the dim outlines of the decks above , but we could not recognize anybody . 
MANY WOMEN ROWING Mrs. William R. Bucknell's account of the part women played in the rowing is as follows There were thirty five persons in the boat in which the captain placed me . 
Three of these were ordinary seamen , supposed to manage the boat , and a steward . 
One of these men seemed to think that we should not start away from the sinking ship until it could be learned whether the other boats would accommodate the rest of the women . 
He seemed to think that more could be crowded into ours , if necessary . 
I would rather go back and go down with the ship than leave under these circumstances . 
The captain shouted to him to obey orders and to pull for a little light that could just be discerned miles in the distance . 
I do not know what this little light was . 
It may have been a passing fishing vessel , which , of course could not know our predicament . 
Anyway , we never reached it . 
We rowed all night , I took an oar and sat beside the Countess de Rothes . 
Her maid had an our and so did mine . 
As we rowed we looked back at the lights of the Titanic . 
There was not a sound from her , only the lights began to get lower and lower , and finally she sank . 
Then we heard a muffled explosion and a dull roar caused by the great suction of water . 
There was not a drop of water on our boat . 
The last minute before our boat was launched Captain Smith threw aboard a bag of bread . 
I took the precaution of taking a good drink of water before we started , so I suffered no inconvenience from thirst . 
Mrs. Lucien Smith , whose young husband perished , was another heroine . 
In another boat Mrs. Cornell and her sister , who had a slight knowledge of rowing , took turns at the oars , as did other women . 
The boat in which Mrs. J. J. Brown , of Denver , Col . 
, was saved contained only three men in all , and only one rowed . 
He was a half frozen seaman who was tumbled into the boat at the last minute . 
The woman wrapped him in blankets and set him at an oar to start his blood . 
The second man was too old to be of any use . 
The third was a coward . 
Strange to say , there was room in this boat for ten other people . 
Ten brave men would have received the warmest welcome of their lives if they had been there . 
The coward , being a quartermaster and the assigned head of the boat , sat in the stern and steered . 
He was terrified , and the women had to fight against his pessimism while they tugged at the oars . 
The women sat two at each oar . 
One held the oar in place , the other did the pulling . 
Mrs. Brown coached them and cheered them on . 
She told them that the exercise would keep the chill out of their veins , and she spoke hopefully of the likelihood that some vessel would answer the wireless calls . 
Over the frightful danger of the situation the spirit of this woman soared . 
THE PESSIMIST And the coward sat in his stern seat , terrified , his tongue loosened with fright . 
He assured them there was no chance in the world . 
He had had fourteen years' experience , and he knew . 
First , they would have to row one and a half miles at least to get out of the sphere of the suction , if they did not want to go down . 
They would be lost , and nobody would ever find them . 
Oh , we shall be picked up sooner or later , said some of the braver ones . 
Don't , cried Mrs. Brown . 
Keep that to yourself , if you feel that way . 
For the sake of these women and chil dren , be a man . 
We have a smooth sea and a fighting chance . 
But the coward only knew that there was no compass and no chart aboard . 
They sighted what they thought was a fishing smack on the horizon , showing dimly in the early dawn . 
The man at the rudder steered toward it , and the women bent to their oars again . 
They covered several miles in this way but the smack faded into the distance . 
They could not see it any longer . 
And the coward said that everything was over . 
They rowed back nine weary miles . 
Then the coward thought they must stop rowing , and lie in the trough of the waves until the Carpathia should appear . 
The women tried it for a few moments , and felt the cold creeping into their bodies . 
Though exhausted from the hard physical labor they thought work was better than freezing . 
Row again ! commanded Mrs. Brown . 
No , no , don't , said the coward . 
We shall freeze , cried several of the women together . 
We have rowed all this time . 
We must keep on or freeze . 
Something about the look in the eye of that Mississippi bred oarswoman , who seemed such a force among her fellows , told him that he had better capitulate . 
COUNTESS ROTHES AN EXPERT OARSWOMAN Miss Alice Farnam Leader , a New York physician , escaped from the Titanic on the same boat which carried the Countess Rothes . 
The countess is an expert oarswoman , said Doctor Leader , and thoroughly at home on the water . 
She practically took command of our boat when it was found that the seaman who had been placed at the oars could not row skilfully . 
Several of the women took their place with the countess at the oars and rowed in turns , while the weak and unskilled stewards sat quietly in one end of the boat . 
MEN COULD NOT ROW With nothing on but a nightgown I helped row one of the boats for three hours , said Mrs. Florence Ware , of Bristol , England . 
In our boat there were a lot of women , a steward and a fireman . 
None of the men knew anything about managing a small boat , so some of the women who were used to boats took charge . 
It was cold and I worked as hard as I could at an oar until we were picked up . 
There was nothing to eat or drink on our boat . 
DEATHS ON THE LIFE BOATS The temperature must have been below freezing , testified another survivor , and neither men nor women in my boat were warmly clothed . 
The officer in charge of the life boat decided it was better to bury the illust . 
caption SURVIVORS OF THE GREAT MARINE DISASTER The first authentic photograph , . 
caption Copyright by Campbell Studio . 
N. Y. COLONEL AND MRS . 
JOHN JACOB ASTOR Mrs , Astor , nee Miss Madeline Force , was rescued . 
Colonel Astor who bravely refused to take a place in the life boats , went down with the Titanic . 
Soon they were weighted so they would sink and were put overboard . 
We could also see similar burials taking place from other life boats that were all around us . 
GAMBLERS WERE POLITE In one boat were two card sharps . 
With the same cleverness that enabled them to win money on board they obtained places in the boats with the women . 
In the boat with the gamblers were women in their night gowns and women in evening dress . 
None of the boats were properly equipped with food , but all had enough bread and water to keep the rescued from starving until the expected arrival of help . 
To the credit of the gamblers who managed to escape , it should be said that they were polite and showed the women every courtesy . 
All they wanted was to be sure of getting in a boat . 
That once accomplished , they reverted to their habitual practice of politeness and suavity . 
They were even willing to do a little manual labor , refusing to let women do any rowing . 
The people on that particular boat were a sad group . 
Fathers had kissed their daughters good bye and husbands had parted from their wives . 
The card sharps , however philosophized wonderfully about the will of the Almighty and how strange His ways . 
They said that one must be prepared for anything that good always came from evil , and that every cloud had a silvery lining . 
Who knows ? said one . 
It may be that everybody on board will be saved . 
Another added Our duty is to the living . 
You women owe it to your relatives and friends not to allow this thing to wreck your reason or undermine your health . 
And they took pains to see that all the women who were on the life boat had plenty of covering to keep them from the icy blasts of the night . 
HELP IN SIGHT The survivors were in the life boats until about . 
To the inexpressible joy of all , they moved as one ! Immediately the boats were swung around and headed for the lights . 
Someone shouted Now , boys , sing ! and everyone not too weak broke into song with Row for the shore , boys . 
Tears came to the eyes of all as they realized that safety was at hand . 
The song was sung , but it was a very poor imitation of the real thing , for quavering voices make poor songs . 
A cheer was given next , and that was better you can keep in tune for a cheer . 
THE LUCKY THIRTEEN Our rescuer showed up rapidly , and as she swung round we saw her cabins all alight , and knew she must be a large steamer . 
She was now motionless and we had to row to her . 
Just then day broke , a beautiful quiet dawn with faint pink clouds just above the horizon , and a new moon whose crescent just touched the horizon . 
Turn your money over , boys , said our cheery steersman , that is , if you have any with you , he added . 
Certainly the superstition is killed forever in the minds of those who escaped from the Titanic in boat . 
We glanced round the horizon and there were others wherever the eye could reach . 
The steamer we had to reach was surrounded by them and we had to make a detour to reach her , for between her and us lay another huge berg . 
A WONDERFUL DAWN Speaking of the moment when the Carpathia was sighted . 
Mrs. J. J. Brown , who had cowed the driveling quartermaster , said Then , knowing that we were safe at last , I looked about me . 
The most wonderful dawn I have ever seen came upon us . 
I have just returned from Egypt . 
I have been all over the world , but I have never seen anything like this . 
First the gray and then the flood of light . 
Then the sun came up in a ball of red fire . 
For the first time we saw where we were . 
Near us was open water , but on every side was ice . 
Ice ten feet high was everywhere , and to the right and left and back and front were icebergs . 
Some of them were mountain high . 
This sea of ice was forty miles wide , they told me . 
We did not wait for the Carpathia to come to us , we rowed to it . 
We were lifted up in a sort of nice little sling that was lowered to us . 
After that it was all over . 
The passengers of the Carpathia were so afraid that we would not have room enough that they gave us practically the whole ship to ourselves . 
TRANSFERRING THE RESCUED Officers of the Carpathia report that when they reached the scene of the Titanic's wreck there were fifty bodies or more floating in the sea . 
Only one mishap attended the transfer of the rescued from the life boats . 
One large collapsible life boat , in which thirteen persons were seated , turned turtle just as they were about to save it , and all in it were lost . 
But for Rigel the fourth boat picked up might have been run down by the Carpathia . 
Jonas Briggs , a seaman abroad the Carpathia , now has Rigel and told the story of the dog's heroism . 
The Carpathia was moving slowly about , looking for boats , rafts or anything which might be afloat . 
They were dangerously close to the steamship , but too weak to shout a warning loud enough to reach the bridge . 
The boat might not have been seen were it not for the sharp barking of Rigel , who was swimming ahead of the craft , and valiantly announcing his position . 
The barks attracted the attention of Captain Rostron and he went to the starboard end of the bridge to see where they came from and saw the boat . 
He immediately ordered the engines stopped , and the boat came alongside the starboard gangway . 
Care was taken to get Rigel aboard , but he appeared little affected by his long trip through the ice cold water . 
He stood by the rail and barked until Captain Rostron called Briggs and had him take the dog below . 
A THRILLING ACCOUNT OF RESCUE Mr. Wallace Bradford , of San Francisco , a passenger aboard the Carpathia , gave the following thrilling account of the rescue of the Titanic's passengers . 
None of us can tell just how many , as they have been hustled to various staterooms and to the dining saloons to be warmed up . 
I was awakened by unusual noises and imagined that I smelled smoke . 
I jumped up and looked out of my port hole , and saw a huge iceberg looming up like a rock off shore . 
When I got out on deck the first man I encountered told me that the Titanic had gone down and we were rescuing the passengers . 
The first two boats from the doomed vessel were in sight making toward us . 
Neither of them was crowded . 
This was accounted for later by the fact that it was impossible to get many to leave the steamer , as they would not believe that she was going down . 
It was a glorious , clear morning and a quiet sea . 
Our steamer was hove to about two and a half miles from the edge of this huge iceberg . 
P. M. and did not go down until two o'clock . 
Many of the passengers were in evening dress when they came aboard our ship , and most of these were in a most bedraggled condition . 
As the boats came alongside after the first two all of them contained a very large proportion of women . 
In this boat two women were handling one of the oars . 
All of the engineers went down with the steamer . 
Four bodies have been brought aboard . 
One is that of a fireman , who is said to have been shot by one of the officers because he refused to obey orders . 
Some were in sight for a long time and moved very slowly , showing plainly that the oars were being handled by amateurs or by women . 
No baggage of any kind was brought by the survivors . 
THE SORROW OF THE LIVING Of the survivors in general it may be said that they escaped death and they gained life . 
The thought of the nation to day is for the living . 
They need our sympathy , our consolation more than do the dead , and , perhaps , in the majority of the cases they need our protecting care as well . 
Watchers on the Carpathia were moved to tears . 
The first life boat reached the Carpathia about half past five o'clock in the morning , recorded one of the passengers on the Carpathia . 
And the last of the sixteen boats was unloaded before nine o'clock . 
Some of the life boats were only half filled , the first one having but two men and eleven women , when it had accommodations for at least forty . 
There were few men in the boats . 
The women were the gamest lot I have ever seen . 
Some of the men and women were in evening clothes , and others among those saved had nothing on but night clothes and raincoats . 
After the Carpathia had made certain that there were no more passengers of the Titanic to be picked up , she threaded her way out of the ice fields for fifty miles . 
It was dangerous work , but it was managed without trouble . 
AID FOR THE SUFFERING AND HYSTERICAL The shrieks and cries of the women and men picked up in life boats by the Carpathia were horrible . 
The women were clothed only in night robes and wrappers . 
The men were in their night garments . 
One was lifted on board entirely nude . 
All the passengers who could bear nourishment were taken into the dining rooms and cabins by Captain Rostron and given food and stimulants . 
Passengers of the Carpathia gave up their berths and staterooms to the survivors . 
As soon as they were landed on the Carpathia many of the women became hysterical , but on the whole they behaved splendidly . 
Men and women appeared to be stunned all day Monday , the full force of the disaster not reaching them until Tuesday night . 
After being wrapped up in blankets and filled with brandy and hot coffee , the first thoughts were for their husbands and those at home . 
Most of them imagined that their husbands had been picked up by other vessels , and they began flooding the wireless rooms with messages . 
It was almost certain that those who were not on board the Carpathia had gone down to death . 
One of the most seriously injured was a woman who had lost both her children . 
Her limbs had been severely torn but she was very patient . 
Mrs. Henry B. Harris , wife of a New York theatrical manager , checked her tears long enough to beg that some message of hope be sent to her father in law . 
Mrs. John Jacob Astor and the Countess of Rothes had been taken to staterooms soon after their arrival on shipboard . 
Before noon , at the captain's request , the first cabin passengers of the Titanic gathered in the saloon and the passengers of other classes in corresponding places on the rescue ship . 
Then the collecting of names was begun by the purser and the stewards . 
I feel better , Mrs. Futrelle said hours afterward , for I can cry now . 
Among the men conversation centered on the accident and the responsibility for it . 
I got on a boat when they were about to lower it and when , from delays below , there was no woman to take the vacant place . 
I don't think any man who was saved is deserving of censure , but I realize that , in contrast with those who went down , we may be viewed unfavorably . 
He showed a picture of his baby boy as he spoke . 
A bride of two months sat on the floor and moaned her widowhood . 
An Italian mother shrieked the name of her lost son . 
Other children clung to the necks of the fathers who , because carrying them , had been permitted to take the boats . 
In the hospital and the public rooms lay , in blankets , several others who had been benumbed by the water . 
Mrs. Rosa Abbott , who was in the water for hours , was restored during the day . 
K. Whiteman , the Titanic's barber , who declared he was blown off the ship by the second of the two explosions after the crash , was treated for bruises . 
A passenger , who was thoroughly ducked before being picked up , caused much amusement on this ship , soon after the doctors were through with him , by demanding a bath . 
The physicians of the Carpathia were praised , as was Chief Steward Hughes , for work done in making the arrivals comfortable and averting serious illness . 
Monday night on the Carpathia was one of rest . 
The wailing and sobbing of the day were hushed as widows and orphans slept . 
Tuesday , save for the crowded condition of the ship , matters took somewhat their normal appearance . 
All available space was used , some sleeping in chairs and some on the floor , while a few found rest in the bathrooms . 
Every cabin had been filled , and women and children were sleeping on the floors in the dining saloon , library and smoking rooms . 
The passengers of the Carpathia had divided their clothes with the shipwrecked ones until they had at least kept warm . 
WOMEN BEFRIENDED ONE ANOTHER The women aboard the Carpathia did what they could by word and act to relieve the sufferings of the rescued . 
Most of the survivors were in great need of clothing , and this the women of the Carpathia supplied to them as long as their surplus stock held out . 
J. A. Shuttleworth , of Louisville , Ky . 
, befriended Mrs. Lucien Smith , whose husband went down with the Titanic . 
Mrs. Smith was formerly Miss Eloise Hughes , daughter of Representative and Mrs. James A. Hughes , of Huntington , W. Va . 
, and was on her wedding trip . 
Mr. Shuttleworth asked her if there wasn't something he could do for her . 
P. Lyon , able seaman , died and was buried at sea the following morning . 
An assistant steward lost his mind upon seeing one of the Titanic's rescued firemen expire after being lifted to the deck of the Carpathia . 
An Episcopal bishop and a Catholic priest from Montreal read services of their respective churches over the dead . 
A long plank tilted at one end served as the incline down which the weighted sacks slid into the sea . 
After we got the Titanic's passengers on board our ship , said one of the Carpathia's officers , it was a question as to where we should take them . 
The parents had gone down . 
There was a woman in the second cabin who lost seven children out of ten , and there were many other losses quite as horrible . 
ISMY PITIABLE SIGHT Among the rescued ones who came on board the Carpathia was the president of the White Star Line . 
Mr. Ismay reached the Carpathia in about the tenth life boat , said an officer . 
I didn't know who he was , but afterward heard the others of the crew discussing his desire to get something to eat the minute he put his foot on deck . 
I don't care what it costs or what it is bring it to me . 
McGuire brought Mr. Ismay a load of stuff and when he had finished it , he handed McGuire a two dollar bill . 
Your money is no good on this ship , McGuire told him . 
caption DIAGRAM OF THE TITANIC'S ARRANGEMENT AND EQUIPMENT The Titanic was far and away the largest and finest vessel ever built , excepting only her sister ship , the Olympic . 
, feet Tonnage , , . 
Her huge hull , divided into thirty watertight compartments , contained nine steel decks , and provided accommodation for , passengers , besides a crew of . 
caption UPPER DECK OF THE TITANIC , LOOKING FORWARD insisted Mr. Ismay , shoving the bill in McGuire's hand . 
I am well able to afford it . 
I will see to it that the boys of the Carpathia are well rewarded for this night's work . 
This promise started McGuire making inquiries as to the identity of the man he had waited on . 
Then we learned that he was Mr. Ismay . 
I did not see Mr. Ismay after the first few hours . 
He must have kept to his cabin . 
FIVE DOGS AND ONE PIG SAVED Five women saved their pet dogs , carrying them in their arms . 
Another woman saved a little pig , which she said was her mascot . 
Though her husband is an Englishman and she lives in England she is an American and was on her way to visit her folks here . 
How she cared for the pig aboard ship I do not know , but she carried it up the side of the ship in a big bag . 
I did not mind the dogs so much , but it seemed to me to be too much when a pig was saved and human beings went to death . 
A number of whales were sighted as the Carpathia was clearing the last of the ice , one large one being close by , and all were spouting like geysers . 
The meeting was called to order and Mr. Samuel Goldenberg was elected chairman . 
Mr. T. G. Frauenthal , of New York , was made chairman of the Committee on Subscriptions . 
A committee , consisting of Mrs. J. J. Brown , Mrs William Bucknell and Mrs. George Stone , was appointed to look after the destitute . 
There was a subscription taken up and up to Wednesday the amount contributed totaled , . 
The stewards have worked with undying strength although one was overcome with so much work and died and was put to his grave at sea . 
I have never seen or felt the benefits of such royal treatment . 
Men who had paid for the best staterooms on the Carpathia left their rooms so that we might have them . 
They fixed up beds in the smoking rooms , and mattresses everywhere . 
All the women who were rescued were given the best staterooms , which were surrendered by the regular passengers . 
None of the regular passengers grumbled because their trip to Europe was interrupted , nor did they complain that they were put to the inconvenience of receiving hundreds of strangers . 
The women on board the Carpathia were particularly kind . 
It shows that for every cruelty of nature there is a kindness , for every misfortune there is some goodness . 
The men and women took up collections on board for the rescued steerage passengers . 
Mrs. Astor , I believe , contributed , her check being cashed by the Carpathia . 
Altogether something like , was collected and all the women were provided with sufficient money to reach their destination after they were landed in New York . 
Under any other circumstances the suffering would have been intolerable . 
But the Good Samaritans on the Carpathia gave many women heart's ease . 
The spectacle on board the Carpathia on the return trip to New York at times was heartrending , while at other times those on board were quite cheerful . 
The most careful and systematic plans were made for the reception and transfer to homes , hotels or institutions of the Titanic's survivors . 
For two blocks to the north , south and east of the docks lines were established through which none save those bearing passes from the Government and the Cunard Line could penetrate . 
With all arrangements made that experience or information could suggest , the authorities settled down to await the docking of the Carpathia . 
Coroners Feinberg and Holtzhauser with Coroner's Physician Weston arranged to go down the bay on the Patrol , while Coroner Hellenstein waited at the pier . 
An undertaker was notified to be ready if needed . 
Fortunately there was no such need . 
Commis sioner of Charities Drummond did not know , of course , just how great the call would be for the services of his department . 
He went to the Cunard pier to direct his part of the work in person . 
Meanwhile he had twenty ambulances ready for instant movement on the city's pier at the foot of East Twenty sixth Street . 
They were ready to take patients to the reception hospital connected with Bellevue or the Metropolitan Hospital on Blackwell's Island . 
Ambulances from the Kings County Hospital in Brooklyn were also there to do their share . 
All the other hospitals in the city stood ready to take the Titanic's people and those that had ambulances promised to send them . 
Vincent's Hospital had beds ready , New York Hospital twelve , Bellevue and the reception hospital and Flower Hospital twelve . 
The House of Shelter maintained by the Hebrew Sheltering and Immigrant Aid Society announced that it was able to care for at least fifty persons as long as might be necessary . 
Mrs. W. A. Bastede , whose husband is a member of the staff of St . 
Luke's Hospital , offered to the White Star Line the use of the newly opened ward at St . 
Luke's , which will accommodate from thirty to sixty persons . 
She said the hospital would send four ambulances with nurses and doctors and that she had collected clothing enough for fifty persons . 
The line accepted her offer and said that the hospital would be kept informed as to what was needed . 
A trustee of Bellevue also called at the White Star offices to offer ambulances . 
He said that five or six , with two or three doctors and nurses on each , would be sent to the pier if required . 
Many other hospitals as well as individuals called at the mayor's office , expressing willingness to take in anybody that should be sent to them . 
A woman living in Fiftieth Street just off Fifth Avenue wished to put her home at the disposal of the survivors . 
D. H. Knott , of Waverley Place , told the mayor that he could take care of and give them both food and lodging at the Arlington , Holly and Earl Hotels . 
Commissioner Drummond visited the City Hall and arranged with the mayor the plans for the relief to be extended directly by the city . 
Mr. Drummond said that omnibuses would be provided to transfer passengers from the ship to the Municipal Lodging House . 
VANDERBILT'S EFFORTS Mrs. W. K. Vanderbilt , Jr . 
, spent the day telephoning to her friends , asking them to let their automobiles be used to meet the Carpathia and take away those who needed surgical care . 
It was announced that as a result of Mrs. Vanderbilt's efforts limousine automobiles and all the Fifth Avenue and Riverside Drive automobile buses would be at the Cunard pier . 
Immigration Commissioner Williams said that he would be at the pier when the Carpathia came in . 
There was to be no inspection of immigrants at Ellis Island . 
The immigrants who had no friends to meet them were to be provided for until their cases could be disposed of . 
Mr. Williams thought that some of them who had lost everything might have to be sent back to their homes . 
Those who were to be admitted to the United States were to be cared for by the Women's Relief Committee . 
The Red Cross Committee announced that careful plans had been made to provide for every possible emergency . 
The emergency committee received a telegram that Ernest P. Bicknell , director of the American Red Cross , was coming from Washington . 
The Red Cross Emergency Relief Committee was to have several representatives at the pier to look out for the passengers on the Carpathia . 
Devine were to be there and it was planned to have others . 
The army's training school at West Fourteenth Street was ready to take twenty or thirty survivors . 
R. H. Farley , head of the White Star Line's third class department , said that the line would give all the steerage passengers railroad tickets to their destination . 
Mayor Gaynor estimated that more than persons could be accommodated in quarters offered through his orders . 
Most of these offers of course would have to be rejected . 
The mayor also said that Colonel Conley of the Sixty ninth Regiment offered to turn out his regiment to police the pier , but it was thought that such service would be unnecessary . 
In the next hour the crowd with passes trebled in number . 
By o'clock the pier held half as many as it could comfortably contain . 
The early crowd did not contain many women relatives of the survivors . 
Few nervous people could be seen , but here and there was a woman , usually supported by two male escorts , weeping softly to herself . 
On the whole it was a frantic , grief crazed crowd . 
Laborers rubbed shoulders with millionaires . 
The relatives of the rich had taxicabs waiting outside the docks . 
The relatives of the poor went there on foot in the rain , ready to take their loved ones . 
A special train was awaiting Mrs. Charles M. Hays , widow of the president of the Grand Trunk Railroad . 
A private car also waited Mrs. George D. Widener . 
Mr. Thomas carried a long black box which contained in small bills , which was to be handed out to the needy steerage survivors of the Titanic as they disembarked . 
The limousine was kept waiting outside to take Mrs. Astor to the Astor home on Fifth Avenue . 
THIRTY FIVE AMBULANCES AT THE PIER At one time there were thirty five ambulances drawn up outside the Cunard pier . 
Every hospital in Manhattan , Brooklyn and the Bronx was represented . 
Several of the ambulances came from as far north as the Lebanon Hospital , in the Bronx , and the Brooklyn Hospital , in Brooklyn . 
Accompanying them were seventy internes and surgeons from the staffs of the hospitals , and more than male and female nurses . 
Vincent's sent the greatest number of ambulances , at one time , eight of them from this hospital being in line at the pier . 
The Sheltering Society and various other similar organizations also were represented , all ready to take care of those who needed them . 
An officer of the Sixty ninth Regiment , N. G. N. Y. , offered the White Star Line officials , the use of the regiment's armory for any of the survivors . 
Mrs. Thomas Hughes , Mrs. August Belmont and Mgrs . 
Lavelle and McMahon , of St . 
The Pennsylvania also had eight taxicabs at the pier for conveyance of the rescued to the Pennsylvania Station , in Thirty third Street . 
Among those who later arrived at the pier before the Carpathia docked were P. A. B. Widener , of Philadelphia , two women relatives of J. B. Thayer , William Harris , Jr . 
, the theatrical man , who was accompanied by Dr Dinkelspiel , and Henry Arthur Jones , the playwright . 
RELATIVES OF SAVED AND LOST Commander Booth , of the Salvation Army , was there especially to meet Mrs. Elizabeth Nye and Mrs. Rogers Abbott , both Titanic survivors . 
Mrs. Abbott's two sons were supposed to be among the lost . 
Miss Booth had received a cablegram from London saying that other Salvation Army people were on the Titanic . 
She was eager to get news of them . 
Also on the pier was Major Blanton , U. S. A. , stationed at Washington , who was waiting for tidings of Major Butt , supposedly at the instance of President Taft . 
Senator William A. Clark and Mrs. Clark were also in the company . 
John R. MacKenty was waiting for Mr. and Mrs. Henry S. Harper . 
Ferdinand W. Roebling and Carl G. Roebling , cousins of Washington A. Roebling , Jr . 
, whose name is among the list of dead , went to the pier to see what they could learn of his fate . 
J. P. Morgan , Jr . 
, arrived at the pier about half an hour before the Carpathia docked . 
He said he had many friends on the Titanic and was eagerly awaiting news of all of them . 
Fire Commissioner Johnson was there with John Peel , of Atlanta , Gal , a brother of Mrs. Jacques Futrelle . 
A MAN IN HYSTERICS There was one man in that sad waiting company who startled those near him about o'clock by dancing across the pier and back . 
He seemed to be laughing , but when he was stopped it was found that he was sobbing . 
He said that he had a relative on the Titanic and had lost control of his nerves . 
H. H. Brunt , of Chicago , was at the gangplank waiting for A. Saalfeld , head of the wholesale drug firm of Sparks , White Co . 
, of London , who was coming to this country on the Titanic on a business trip and whose life was saved . 
WAITING FOR CARPATHIA During the afternoon and evening tugboats , motor boats and even sailing craft , had been waiting off the Ambrose Light for the appearance of the Carpathia . 
Some of the waiting craft contained friends and anxious relatives of the survivors and those reported as missing . 
The sea was rough and choppy , and a strong east wind was blowing . 
There was a light fog , so that it was possible to see at a distance of only a few hundred yards . 
This lifted later in the evening . 
First to discover the incoming liner with her pitiful cargo was one of the tugboats . 
From out of the mist there loomed far out at sea the incoming steamer . 
RESCUE BOAT SIGHTED Liner ahead ! cried the lookout on the tug to the captain . 
She must be the Carpathia , said the captain , and then he turned the nose of his boat toward the spot on t he horizon . 
Then the huge black hull and one smokestack could be distinguished . 
It's the Carpathia , said the captain . 
I can tell her by the stack . 
The announcement sent a thrill through those who heard it . 
Here , at the gate of New York , was a ship whose record for bravery and heroic work would be a famuliar sic name in history . 
caption Copyright by G. V. Buck . 
LUCIEN P. SMITH Formerly Miss Eloise Hughes , daughter of Representative and Mrs. James A. Hughes , of West Virginia . 
Mrs. Smith and her husband were passengers on the Titanic . 
Mrs. Smith was saved , but her husband went to a watery grave . 
Mr. and Mrs. Smith were married only a few months ago . 
caption MAJOR ARCHIBALD BUTT Military Aide to President Taft . 
Of Major Butt , who was one of the victims of the Titanic , one of the survivors said Major Butt was the real leader in all of that rescue work . 
He made the men stand back and helped the women and children into the boats . 
He was surely one of God's noblemen . 
It was a few minutes after seven o'clock when she arrived at the entrance to Ambrose Channel . 
She was coming fast steaming at better than fifteen knots an hour , and she was sighted long before she was expected . 
Except for the usual side and masthead lights she was almost dark , only the upper cabins showing a glimmer here and there . 
There was almost complete silence on the pier . 
Doctors and nurses , members of the Women's Relief Committee , city and government officials , as well as officials of the line , moved nervously about . 
Seated where they had been assigned beneath the big customs letters corresponding to the initials of the names of the survivors they came to meet , sat the mass of on the pier . 
Slowly and majestically the ship slid through the water , still bearing the details of that secret of what happened and who perished when the Titanic met her fate . 
Convoying the Carpathia was a fleet of tugs bearing men and women anxious to learn the latest news . 
The Cunarder had been as silent for days as though it , too , were a ship of the dead . 
A list of survivors had been given out from its wireless station and that was all . 
Even the approximate time of its arrival had been kept a secret . 
Five or six persons , apparently members of the crew or the ship's officers , were seen along the rail but otherwise the boat appeared to be deserted . 
Off quarantine the Carpathia slowed down and , hailing the immigration inspection boat , asked if the health officer wished to board . 
She was told that he did , and came to a stop while Dr . 
O'Connell and two assistants climbed on board . 
Again the newspaper men asked for some word of the catastrophe to the Titanic , but there was no answer , and the Carpathia continued toward her pier . 
Entering the North River she laid her course close to the New Jersey side in order to have room to swing into her pier . 
By this time the rails were lined with men and women . 
There were a few requests for news from those on board and a few answers to questions shouted from the tugs . 
The liner began to slacken her speed , and the tugboat soon was alongside . 
Some of them , perhaps , had passed through that inferno of the deep sea which sprang up to destroy the mightiest steamship afloat . 
Carpathia , ahoy ! was shouted through a megaphone . 
There was an interval of a few seconds , and then , Aye , aye , came the reply . 
Is there any assistance that can be rendered ? was the next question . 
Thank you , no , was the answer in a tone that carried emotion with it . 
Meantime the tugboat was getting nearer and nearer to the Carpathia , and soon the faces of those leaning over the railing could be distinguished . 
TALK WITH SURVIVORS More faces appeared , and still more . 
A woman who called to a man on the tugboat was asked ? Are you one the Titanic survivors ? Yes , said the voice , hesitatingly . 
Do you need help ? No , after a pause . 
If there is anything you want done it will be attended to . 
I have been informed that my relatives will meet me at the pier . 
Is it true that some of the life boats sank with the Titanic ? Yes . 
There was some trouble in manning them . 
They were not far enough away from her . 
All of this questioning and receiving replies was carried on with the greatest difficulty . 
The pounding of the liner's engines , the washing of the sea , the tugboat's engines , made it hard to understand the woman's replies . 
ALL CARED FOR ON BOARD Were the women properly cared for after the crash ? she was asked . 
Oh , yes , came the shrill reply . 
The men were brave very brave . 
Here her voice broke and she turned and left the railing , to reappear a few moments later and cry Please report me as saved . 
What name ? was asked . 
She shouted a name that could not be understood , and , apparently believing that it had been , turned away again and disappeared . 
Nearly all of us are very ill , cried another woman . 
Here several other tugboats appeared , and those standing at the railing were besieged with questions . 
Did the crash come without warning ? a voice on one of the smaller boats megaphoned . 
Yes , a woman answered . 
Most of us had retired . 
We saved a few of our belongings . 
How long did it take the boat to sink ? asked the voice . 
TITANIC CREW HEROES Not long , came the reply ? The crew and the men were very brave . 
Oh , it is dreadful dreadful to think of ! Is Mr. John Jacob Astor on board ? No. Did he remain on the Titanic after the collision ? I do not know . 
RUSHES ON TO DOCK Are you going to anchor for the night ? Captain Rostron was asked by megaphone as his boat approached Ambrose Light . 
It was then raining heavily . 
No , came the reply . 
I am going into port . 
There are sick people on board . 
We tried to learn when she would dock , said Dr . 
The childish deception that has been practiced for days by the people who are responsible for the Titanic has been carried up to the very moment of the landing of the survivors . 
She proceeded past the Cunard pier , where persons were waiting her , and steamed to a spot opposite the White Star piers at Twenty first Street . 
Then the Carpathia started for her own pier . 
As the boats were towed away the picture taking and shouting of questions began again . 
John Badenoch , a buyer for Macy Co . 
, called down to a representative of the firm that neither Mr. nor Mrs. Isidor Straus were among the rescued on board the Carpathia . 
An officer of the Carpathia called down that of the Titanic's passengers were on board , but refused to reply to other questions . 
The heavy hawsers were made fast without the customary shouting of ship's officers and pier hands . 
From the crowd on the pier came a long , shuddering murmur . 
In it were blended sighs and hundreds of whispers . 
The burden of it all was Here they come . 
These were the husbands and wives , children , parents , sweethearts and friends of those who had sailed upon the Titanic on its maiden voyage . 
They spoke in whispers , each group intent upon its own sad business . 
Newspaper writers , with pier passes showing in their hat bands , were everywhere . 
A sailor hurried outside the fence and disappeared , apparently on a mission for his company . 
There was a deep drawn sigh as he walked away , shaking his head toward those who peered eagerly at him . 
Then came a man and woman of the Carpathia's own passengers , as their orderly dress showed them to be . 
Again a sigh like a sob swept over the crowd , and again they turned back to the canopied gangplank . 
THE FIRST SURVIVORS Several minutes passed and then out of the first cabin gangway tunneled by a somber awning , streamed the first survivors . 
A young woman , hatless , her light brown hair disordered and the leaden weight of crushing sorrow heavy upon eyes and sensitive mouth , was in the van . 
She stopped , perplexed , almost ready to drop with terror and exhaustion , and was caught by a customs official . 
A survivor ? he questioned rapidly , and a nod of the head answering him , he demanded Your name . 
The answer given , he started to lead her toward that section of the pier where her friends would be waiting . 
When she stepped from the gangplank there was quiet on the pier . 
Dorothy , Dorothy ! cried a man from the number . 
He broke through the double line of customs inspectors as though it was composed of wooden toys and caught the woman to his breast . 
She opened her lips inarticulately , weakly raised her arms and would have pitched forward upon her face had she not been supported . 
RUMORS AFLOAT The arrival of the Carpathia was the signal for the most sensational rumors to circulate through the crowd on the pier . 
First , Mrs. John Jacob Astor was reported to have died at . 
o'clock , when the Carpathia was on her way up the harbor . 
Captain Smith and the first engineer were reported to have shot themselves when they found that the Titanic was doomed to sink . 
Afterward it was learned that Captain Smith and the engineer went down with their ship in perfect courage and coolness . 
It was said that this agreement had been carried out . 
Later it was shown that , like many other men on the ship , they had gone down without the exhibition of a sign of fear . 
CORNELL SAFE Magistrate Cornell's wife and her two sisters were among the first to leave the ship . 
They were met at the first cabin pier entrance by Magistrate Cornell and a party of friends . 
None of the three women had hats . 
One of those who met them was Magistrate Cornell's son . 
One of Mrs. Cornell's sisters was overheard to remark that it would be a dreadful thing when the ship began really to unload . 
The three women appeared to be in a very nervous state . 
Their hair was more or less dishevelled . 
They were apparently fully dressed save for their hats . 
Clothing had been supplied them in their need and everything had been done to make them comfortable . 
One of the party said that the collision occurred at . 
Following closely the Cornell party was H. J. Allison of Montreal , who came to meet his family . 
One of the party , who was weeping bitterly as he left the pier , explained that the only one of the family that was rescued was the young brother . 
ASTOR APPEARED In a few minutes young Mrs. Astor with her maid appeared . 
She came down the gangplank unassisted . 
She was wearing a white sweater . 
The young woman was white faced and silent . 
Nobody cared to intrude upon her thoughts . 
Her stepson said little to her . 
He did not feel like questioning her at such a time , he said . 
Mr. Clark and others said that Colonel and Mrs. Astor were in their suite when the crash came , and that they appeared quietly on deck a few minutes afterward . 
Here and there among the passengers of the Carpathia and from the survivors of the Titanic the story was gleaned of the rescue . 
That was at o'clock on Monday morning . 
FRAUENTHAL WELCOMED Efforts were made to learn from Dr . 
Henry Franenthal sic something about the details of how he was rescued . 
Just then , or as he was leaving the pier , beaming with evident delight , he was surrounded by a big crowd of his friends . 
There's Harry ! There he is ! they yelled and made a rush for him . 
All the doctor's face that wasn't covered with red beard was aglow with smiles as his friends hugged him and slapped him on the back . 
They rushed him off bodily through the crowd and he too was whirled home . 
It is the story of a disaster that nations , it is hoped , will make impossible in the years to come . 
MORE THAN SEVENTY WIDOWS More than seventy widows were in the weeping company . 
The only large family that was saved in its entirety was that of the Carters , of Philadelphia . 
Millionaire and pauper , titled grandee and weeping immigrant , Ismay , the head of the White Star Company , and Jack Jones from the stoke hole were surrounded instantly . 
Some would gladly have escaped observation . 
Every man among the survivors acted as though it were first necessary to explain how he came to be in a life boat . 
Some of the stories smacked of Munchausen . 
Others were as plain and unvarnished as a pike staff . 
Those that were most sincere and trustworthy had to be fairly pulled from those who gave their sad testimony . 
Far into the night the recitals were made . 
They were told in the rooms of hotels , in the wards of hospitals and upon trains that sped toward saddened homes . 
It was a symposium of horror and heroism , the like of which has not been known in the civilized world since man established his dominion over the sea . 
STEERAGE PASSENGERS The two hundred and more steerage passengers did not leave the ship until o'clock . 
They were in a sad condition . 
The women were without wraps and the few men there were wore very little clothing . 
A poor Syrian woman who said she was Mrs. Habush , bound for Youngstown , Ohio , carried in her arms a six year old baby girl . 
This woman had lost her husband and three brothers . 
I lost four of my men folks , she cried . 
Miss Hays , also a survivor of the Titanic , took charge of the almost naked waifs on the Carpathia . 
She became warmly attached to the two boys , who unconcernedly played about , not understanding the great tragedy that had come into their lives . 
The two little curly heads did not understand it all . 
All three became aliens on an alien shore . 
Miss Hays , unable to learn the names of the little fellows , had dubbed the older Louis and the younger Lump . 
Lump was all that his name implies , for he weighed almost as much as his brother . 
They were dark eyed and brown curly haired children , who knew how to smile as only French children can . 
He cried to the passengers in one of the boats and held the children aloft . 
Three or four sailors and passengers held up their arms . 
The father dropped the older boy . 
Then he dropped the little fellow and saw him folded in the arms of a sailor . 
Then the boat pulled away . 
The last seen of the father , whose last living act was to save his babes , he was waving his hand in a final parting . 
Then the Titanic plunged to the ocean's bed . 
His father , H. J. Allison , and mother and Lorraine , a child of three , were victims of the catastrophe . 
Baby Travers , in the excitement following the crash , was separated from the rest of the family just before the Titanic went down . 
With the party were two nurses and a maid . 
She had gone to the deck without her husband , and , frantically seeking him , was directed by an officer to the other side of the ship . 
J. W. Allison , a cousin of H. J. Allison , was at the pier to care for Baby Travers and his nurse . 
They were taken to the Manhattan Hotel . 
Describing the details of the perishing of the Allison family , the rescued nurse said they were all in bed when the Titanic hit the berg . 
We did not get up immediately , said she , for we had illust . 
caption WHITE STAR STEAMER TITANIC GYMNASIUM illust . 
caption Copyright , , Underwood Underwood . 
CAPTAIN A. H. ROSTROM Commander of the Carpathia , which rescued the survivors of the Titanic from the life boats in the open sea and brought them to New York . 
Later we were told to get up , and I hurriedly dressed the baby . 
We hastened up on deck , and confusion was all about . 
With other women and children we clambered to the life boats , just as a matter of precaution , believing that there was no immediate danger . 
In about an hour there was an explosion and the ship appeared to fall apart . 
We were in the life boat about six hours before we were picked up . 
THE RYERSON FAMILY Probably few deaths have caused more tears than Arthur Ryerson's , in view of the sad circumstances which called him home from a lengthy tour in Europe . 
Mr. Ryerson's eldest son , Arthur Larned Ryerson , a Yale student , was killed in an automobile accident Easter Monday , . 
A cablegram announcing the death plunged the Ryerson family into mourning and they boarded the first steamship for this country . 
If sic happened to be the Titanic , and the death note came near being the cause of the blotting out of the entire family . 
The children who accompanied them were Miss Susan P. Ryerson , Miss Emily B. Ryerson and John Ryerson . 
The latter is years old . 
They did not know their son intended to spend the Easter holidays at their home at Haverford , Pa . 
until they were informed of his death . 
John Lewis Hoffman , also of Haverford and a student of Yale , was killed with young Ryerson . 
The two were hurrying to Philadelphia to escort a fellow student to his train . 
In turning out of the road to pass a cart the motor car crashed into a pole in front of the entrance to the estate of Mrs. B. Frank Clyde . 
The college men were picked up unconscious and died in the Bryn Mawr Hospital . 
Mr. Norris spoke of the feeling of relief that came over him as , watching from the pier , he saw Jack Ryerson come from a cabin and stand at the railing . 
The name of the boy was missing from some of the lists and for two days it was reported that he had perished . 
Captain A. H. Rostron , of the Carpathia , addressed an official report , giving his account of the Carpathia's rescue work , to the general manager of the Cunard Line , Liverpool . 
The report read I beg to report that at . 
A. M. Monday th inst . 
I was informed of urgent message from Titanic with her position . 
A. M. saw flare half a point on port bow . 
Taking this for granted to be ship , shortly after we sighted our first iceberg . 
I had previously had lookouts doubled , knowing that Titanic had struck ice , and so took every care and precaution . 
We stopped at A. M. , thus doing distance in three hours and a half , picking up the first boat at . 
A. M. boat in charge of officer , and he reported that Titanic had foundered . 
A. M. last boat picked up . 
All survivors aboard and all boats accounted for , viz . 
one Berthon boat had not been launched , it having got jammed , making sixteen life boats and four Berthon boats accounted for . 
By the time we had cleared first boat it was breaking day , and I could see all within area of four miles . 
At A. M. the Leyland S. S. California came up . 
I gave him the principal news and asked him to search and I would proceed to New York at . 
We got thirteen lifeboats , six on forward deck and seven in davits . 
I thought it best to go to New York . 
Again , the passengers were all hysterical about ice , and I pointed out to Mr. Ismay the possibilities of seeing ice if I went to Halifax . 
Then I knew it would be best to keep in touch with land stations as best I could . 
We have experienced great difficulty in transmitting news , also names of survivors . 
Our wireless is very poor , and again we have had so many interruptions from other ships and also messages from shore . 
I gave instructions to send first all official messages , then names of passengers , then survivors' private messages . 
We had haze early Tuesday morning for several hours again more or less all Wednesday from . 
A. M. to P. M. strong south southwesterly winds and clear weather Thursday , with moderate rough sea . 
I am pleased to say that all survivors have been very plucky . 
The majority of women , first , second and third class , lost their husbands , and , considering all , have been wonderfully well . 
Tuesday our doctor reported all survivors physically well . 
Our first class passengers have behaved splendidly , given up their cabins voluntarily and supplied the ladies with clothes , etc . 
We all turned out of our cabins and gave them to survivors saloon , smoking room , library , etc . 
, also being used for sleeping accommodation . 
Our crew , also turned out to let the crew of the Titanic take their quarters . 
I am pleased to state that owing to preparations made for the comfort of survivors , none were the worse for exposure , etc . 
I beg to specially mention how willing and cheerful the whole of the ship's company behaved , receiving the highest praise from everybody . 
And I can assure you I am very proud to have such a company under my command . 
The following list of the survivors and dead contains the latest revisions and corrections of the White Star Line officials , and was furnished by them exclusively for this book . 
LIST OF SURVIVORS FIRST CABIN ANDERSON , HARRY . 
E. D. ABBOTT , MRS . 
ALLISON , MASTER , and nurse . 
ANDREWS , MISS CORNELIA I. ALLEN , MISS . 
E. W. ASTOR , MRS . 
JOHN JACOB , and maid . 
BARRATT , KARL B. BESETTE , MISS . 
BARKWORTH , A. H. BUCKNELL , MRS . 
W. BOWERMAN , MISS E. BROWN , MRS . 
J. J. BURNS , MISS C. M. BISHOP , MR . 
D. H. BLANK , H. BESSINA , MISS A. BAXTER , MRS . 
J. M. BOWEN , MISS G. C. BECKWITH , MR . 
R. L. BISLEY , MR . 
BONNELL , MISS C. CASSEBEER , MRS . 
H. A. CARDEZA , MRS . 
J. W. CANDELL , MRS . 
CASE , HOWARD B. CAMARION , KENARD . 
CASSEBORO , MISS D. D. CLARK , MRS . 
W. M. CHIBINACE , MRS . 
B. C. CHARLTON , W. M. CROSBY , MRS E. G. CARTER , MISS LUCILLE . 
CALDERHEAD , E. P. CHANDANSON , MISS VICTOTRINE . 
H. I. CARDEZA , MR . 
N. C. CARTER , MR . 
W. E. CARTER , MASTER WILLIAM . 
A. T. COMPTON , MISS S. R. CROSBY , MRS . 
E. G. CROSBY , MISS HARRIET . 
R. C. CHIBNALL , MRS . 
DANIEL , ROBERT W. DAVIDSON , MR . 
A. A. DANIELL , H. HAREN . 
DRACHENSTED , A. DALY , PETER D. ENDRES , MISS CAROLINE . 
EUSTIS , MISS E. EMMOCK , PHILIP E. FLAGENHEIM , MRS . 
FYNN , J. I. FORTUNE , MISS ALICE FORTUNE , MISS ETHEL . 
H. W. FRAUENTHAL , MR . 
T. G FROLICHER , MISS MABGARET . 
FROLICHER , MAY AND MRS . 
FROLICHER , MISS N. FUTRELLE , MRS . 
GRAHAM , MISS M. GORDON , SIR COSMO DUFF . 
L. P. GREENFIELD , G. B. GREENFIELD , WILLIAM . 
HENRY B. HARRIS , MRS . 
H. B. HOLVERSON , MRS . 
J. C. HAWKSFORD , W. J. HARPER , HENRY , and man servant . 
H. S. HOLD , MISS J. A. HOPE , NINA . 
HORNER , HENRY R. HARDER , MR . 
CHARLES M. , and daughter . 
IDA S. ISMAY , J. BRUCE . 
N. KENNYMAN , F. A. KENCHEN , MISS EMILE . 
LONGLEY , MISS G. F. LEADER , MRS . 
A. F. LEAHY , MISS NORA . 
LESNEUR , GUSTAVE , JR . 
MADILL , MISS GEORGETTE A. MAHAN , MRS . 
D. W. MARECHELL , PIERRE . 
E. I. MOCK , MR . 
P. E. MIDDLE , MME . 
W. E. MCGOUGH , JAMES . 
E. POMROY , MISS ELLEN . 
PEERCAULT , MISS A. RYERSON , JOHN . 
ROSIBLE , MISS H. ROTHES , COUNTESS . 
ROLMANE , C. RYERSON , AIISS SUSAN P. RYERSON , MISS EMILY . 
GEORGE M. SKELLER , MRS . 
SLOPER , WILLIAM T. SWIFT , MRS . 
LUCIEN P. STEPHENSON , MRS . 
WILLIAM B STENMEL , MR . 
W. A. , and maid . 
F. O. , and child . 
STEFFANSON , H. B. STRAUS , MRS . 
E. SIMMONS , A. TAYLOR , MISS . 
J. B. THAYER , J. B. , JR . 
E. THOR , MISS ELLA . 
E. Z TROUT , MISS JESSIE . 
WILLIAMS , RICHARD M. , JB . 
P. WILSON , MISS HELEN A. WILLIARD , MISS C. WICK , MISS MARY . 
GEORGE D. , and maid . 
LIST OF SURVIVORS SECOND CABIN ABESSON , MRS . 
ANGEL , F. ANGLE , WILLIAM . 
ADA E. BUSS , MISS KATE . 
A. O. , and three children BEANE , EDWARD . 
ETHEL , BRYHI , MISS D. BEESLEY , MR . 
T. W. S. BROWN , MISS E. BROWN , MRS . 
BENTHAN , LILLIAN W. BYSTRON , KAROLINA BRIGHT , DAGMAR . 
C. CALDWELL , ALBERT F. CALDWELL , MRS . 
SYLVAN CALDWELL , ALDEN , infant . 
COLLYER , MISS MARJORIE CHRISTY , MRS . 
DAVIS , JOHN M. DUVAN , FLORENTINE . 
DUVAN , MIBS A. DAVIDSON , MISS MARY . 
LIZZIE FORMERY , MISS ELLEN . 
HEBBER , MISS S. HOFFMAN , LOLA . 
JANE , daughters HEALY , NORA . 
HAMATAINEN , W. HAMATAINEN , ANNA . 
HARNLIN , ANNA , and Chjld ILETT , BERTHA . 
KEANE , MISS NORA H. KELLY , MRS . 
MALLETT , A. MALLETT , MRS . 
MELLOR , W. J. McDEARMONT , MISS LELA . 
A. OXENHAM , PEBCY J. PHILLIPS , ALICE . 
L. PLETT , B. QUICK , MRS . 
VERA W. QUICK , MISS PHYLLIS . 
REINARDO , MISS E. RIDSDALE , LUCY . 
RICHARDS , M. ROGERS , MISS SELINA . 
EMILIA , two boys , and MR . 
TRANT , MRS J. TOOMEY , MISS . 
E. TROUTT , MISS E. TROUTT , MISS CECELIA . 
WARE , MISS H. WATTER , MISS N. WILHELM , CB AS . 
A. , and two children . 
WILLIAMS , RICBARD M. , JR . 
E. A. WEST , MISS CONSTANCE . 
A list of surviving third cabin passengers and crew is omitted owing to the impossibility of obtaining the correct names of many . 
ROLL OF THE DEAD FIRST CABIN ALLISON , H. J. ALLISON , MRS . 
J. J. , and servant . 
BEATTIE , T. BRANDEIS , E. BVCKNELL , MRS . 
BAHMANN , J. BAXTER , MR . 
BJORNSTROM , H. BIRNBAHM , JACOB . 
BLACKWELL , S. W. BOREBANK , J. J. BOWEN , MISS . 
BRADY , JOHN B. BREWE , ARLBLIR J. BUTT , MAJOR A. CLARK , WALTER M. CLLFFORD , GEORGE Q. COLLEY , E. P. CARDEZA , T. D. M. , servant of . 
J. W. , maid of . 
CORRAN , F. M. CORRAN , J. P. CHAFEE , MR . 
H. I. CHISHOLM , ROBERT . 
COMPTON , A. T. CRAFTON , JOHN B. CROSBY , EDWARD G. CUMMINGS , JOBN BRADLEY . 
DULLES , WILLIAM C. DOUGLAS , W. D. DOUGLAS , MASTER R. , nurse of . 
EVANS , MISS E. FORTUNE , MARK . 
FOREMAN , B. L. FORTUNE , CHARLES . 
FRANKLIN , T. P. FUTRELLE , J. GEE , ARTHUR . 
GOLDENBERG , E. L. GOLDSCHMIDT , G. B. GIGLIO , VICTOR . 
GUGGENHEIM , BENJAMIN , HAYS , CHARLES M. HAYS , MRS . 
HILLIARD , H. H. HIPKINS , W. E. HOGENHEIM , MRS . 
A. HARRI , HENRY B. HARP , MR . 
CHARLES M. HARP , MISS MARGARET , and maid . 
HOLVERSON , A. M. ISLAM , MISS A. E. ISMAY , J. BRUCE , servant of . 
JULIAN , H. F. JONES , C. C. KENT , EDWARD A. KENYON , MR . 
F. R. KLABER , HERMAN . 
LAMBERTH , WILLIAM , F. F. LAWRENCE , ARTHUR . 
LEWY , E. G. LOPING , J. H. LINGREY , EDWARD . 
MAGUIRE , J. E. McCAFFRY , T. McCAFFRY , T. , JR . 
McCARTHY , T. MIDDLETON , J. C. MILLET , FRANK D. MINAHAN , DR . 
MEYER , EDGAR J. MOLSON , H. M. MOORE , C. , servant . 
PARR , M. H. W. PEARS , MR . 
PARTNER , M. A. PAYNE , Y. POND , FLORENCE , and maid . 
PUFFER , C. C. REUCHLIN , J. ROBERT , MRS . 
ROEBLING , WASHINGTON A. , d . 
ROOD , HUGH R. ROES , J. HUGO . 
ROTHES , COUNTESS , maid of . 
ROTHSCHILD , M. ROWE , ARTHUR . 
RYERSON , A. SILVEY , WILLIAM B. SPEDDEN , MRS . 
F. O. , maid of SPENCER , W. A. STEAD , W. T. STEHLI , MR . 
SMART , JOHN M. SMITH , CLINCH . 
SMITET , R. W. SMITH , L. P. TAUSSIC , , EMIL . 
THAYER , JOHN B. THORNE , G. VANDERHOOF , WYCKOFF . 
WALKER , W. A. WARREN , F. M. WHITE , PERCIVAL A. WHITE , RICHARD F. WIDENER , G. D. WIDENER , HARRY . 
FRANK P. WEIR , J. WILLIAMS , DUANE . 
SECOND CABIN ABELSON , SAMSON . 
ALDWORTH , C. ANDREW , EDGAR . 
BRACKEN , JAMES H. BROWN , MRS . 
BAINBRIDGE , C. R. BYLES , THE REV . 
BEAUCHAMP , H. J. BERG , MISS E. BENTHAN , I. BATEMAN , ROBERT J. BUTLER , REGINALD . 
C. P. CARTER , THE REV . 
COLERIDGE , REGINALD , CHAPMAN , CHARLES . 
CHAPMAN , JOHN E. CHAPMAN , MRS . 
DENBORNY , H. DREW , JAMES . 
DREW , MASTER M. DAVID , MASTER J. W. DOUNTON , W. J. DEL VARLO , S. DEL VARLO , MRS . 
EITEMILLER , G. F. FROST , A. FYNNERY , MR . 
FAUNTHORPE , H. FILLBROOK , C. FUNK , ANNIE . 
FAHLSTROM , A. FOX , STANLEY W. GREENBERG , S. GILES , RALPH . 
GALL , S. GLLL , JOHN . 
GARVEY , LAWRENCE , HICKMAN , LEONARD . 
HOOD , AMBROSE , HODGES , HENRY P. HART , BENJAMIN . 
HARBECK , W. H. HOFFMAN , MR . 
S. HOWARD , B. HOWARD , MRS . 
E. T. HALE , REGINALD . 
HILTUNEN , M. HUNT , GEORGE . 
JARVIS , JOHN D. KEANE , DANIEL . 
F. G. KEYNALDO , MISS . 
KRILLNER , J. H. KRINS , bandsman . 
KNIGHT , R. LENGAM , JOHN . 
LEVY , R. J. LAHTIMAN , WILLIAM . 
LEYSON , R. W. N. LAROCHE , JOSEPH . 
LAMB , J. J McKANE , PETER . 
MANTOILA , JOSEPEI , MALACHARD , NOLL . 
MANGIOVACCHI , E. McCRAE , ARTHUR G. McCRIE , JAMES M. McKANE , PETER D. MUDD , THOMAS . 
MAYBERG , FRANK H. MEYER , AUGUST . 
MATTHEWS , W. J. NESSEN , ISRAEL . 
NICHOLLS , JOSEPH C. NORMAN , ROBERT D. OTTER , RICHARD . 
PENGELLY , F. PERNOT , RENE . 
PULBAUM , FRANK RENOUF , PETER H. ROGERS , HARRY . 
SLEMEN , R. J. SOBEY , HAYDEN . 
SLATTER , MISS H. M. STANTON , WARD . 
SWORD , HANS K. STOKES , PHILIP J. SHARP , PERCIVAL . 
F. W. SMITH , AUGUSTUS . 
TURPIN , WILLIAM J. TURPIN , MRS . 
TURNER , JOHN H. TROUPIANSKY , M. TIRVAN , MRS . 
WATSON , E. WOODWARD , bandsman . 
WARE , WILLIAM J. WEISZ , LEOPOLD . 
WARE , JOHN J. WEST , E. ARTHUR . 
The total death list was . 
Third cabin passengers and crew are not included in the list here given owing to the impossibility of obtaining the exact names of many . 
Captain Smith was on the bridge a moment later , summoning all on board to put on life preservers and ordering the life boats lowered . 
The first boats had more male passengers , as the men were the first to reach the deck . 
When the rush of frightened men and women and crying children to the decks began , the women first' rule was rigidly enforced . 
Officers drew revolvers , but in most cases there was no use for them . 
Captain Smith was last seen on the bridge just before the ship sank , leaping only after the decks had been washed away . 
What became of the men with the life preservers was a question asked by many since the disaster . 
Many of these with life preservers were seen to go down despite the preservers , and dead bodies floated on the surface as the boats moved away . 
That the Titanic's speed , nearly knots an hour , was not slackened . 
That the number of life boats on the Titanic was insufficient to accommodate more than one third of the passengers , to say nothing of the crew . 
Most members of the crew say there were sixteen life boats and two collapsibles none say there were more than twenty boats in all . 
The escaped filled most of the sixteen life boats and the one collapsible which got away , to the limit of their capacity . 
Had the ship struck the iceberg head on at whatever illust . 
GEORGE D. WIDENER Mrs. Widener was saved , . 
caption George D. WIDENER Who with his son . 
caption Copyright by Underwood Underwood , N. Y. WILLIAM T. STEAD The great English writer , who was a passenger on board the ill fated White Star Line Steamer Titanic . 
speed and with whatever resulting shock , the bulkhead system of water tight compartments would probably have saved the vessel . 
After telling of the shock and the lowering of the boats the account continues Some of the boats , crowded too full to give rowers a chance , drifted for a time . 
There a steward , who explained to the passengers that he had been shipwrecked twice before , appeared carrying three oranges and a green light . 
That green light , many of the survivors say , was to the shipwrecked hundreds as the pillar of fire by night . 
Long after the ship had disappeared , and while confusing false lights danced about the boats , the green lantern kept them together on the course which led them to the Carpathia . 
Only the hardiest of constitutions could endure for more than a few moments such a numbing bath . 
The first vigor ous strokes gave way to heart breaking cries of Help ! Help ! and stiffened forms were seen floating on the water all around us . 
In the joy of that moment , the heaviest griefs were forgotten . 
Soon afterward Captain Rostron and Chief Steward Hughes were welcoming the chilled and bedraggled arrivals over the Carpathia's side . 
Terrible as were the San Francisco , Slocum and Iroquois disasters , they shrink to local events in comparison with this world catastrophe . 
True , there were others of greater qualifications and longer experience than I nearer the tragedy but they , by every token of likelihood , have become a part of the tragedy . 
Our stewardess , meeting me outside , pointed to a wailing host in the rear dining room and said . 
She's at the bottom of the ocean . 
For lack of room to put them , several of the Titanic's boats , after unloading , were set adrift . 
At our north was a broad ice field , the length of hundreds of Carpathias . 
Around us on other sides were sharp and glistening peaks . 
One black berg , seen about A. M. , was said to be that which sunk the Titanic . 
He said The voyage from Queenstown had been quite uneventful very fine weather was experienced , and the sea was quite calm . 
ONLY A SLIGHT JAR I had been in my berth for about ten minutes , when , at about . 
However , the engines stopped immediately afterward , and my first , thought was , She has lost a propeller . 
They thought we had just grazed it with a glancing blow , and that the engines had been stopped to see if any damage had been done . 
No one , of course , had any conception that the vessel had been pierced below by part of the submerged iceberg . 
The game went on without any thought of disaster and I retired to my cabin , to read until we went on again . 
I never saw any of the players or the onlookers again . 
SOME WERE AWAKENED A little later , hearing people going upstairs , I went out again and found everyone wanting to know why the engines had stopped . 
No doubt many were awakened from sleep by the sudden stopping of a vibration to which they had become accustomed during the four days we had been on board . 
I went down again to put on warmer clothing , and as I dressed heard an order shouted , All passengers on deck with life belts on . 
She lay just as if she were waiting the order to go on again when some trifling matter had been adjusted . 
Presently we heard the order All men stand back away from the boats , and all ladies retire to next deck below' the smoking room deck or B deck . 
MEN STOOD BACK The men all stood away and remained in absolute silence leaning against the end railings of the deck or pacing slowly up and down . 
The boats were swung out and lowered from A deck . 
When they were to the level of B deck , where all the women were collected , they got in quietly , with the exception of some who refused to leave their husbands . 
In some cases they were torn from them and pushed into the boats , but in many instances they were allowed to remain because there was no one to insist they should go . 
An officer in uniform came up as one boat went down and shouted , When you are afloat row round to the companion ladder and stand by with the other boats for orders . 
Aye , aye , sir , came up the reply but I don't think any boat was able to obey the order . 
They no doubt anticipated that suction from such an enormous vessel would be more dangerous than usual to a crowded boat mostly filled with women . 
One by one , the boats were filled with women and children , lowered and rowed away into the night . 
Presently the word went round among the men , the men are to be put in boats on the starboard side . 
Then you had better jump . 
I dropped in , and fell in the bottom , as they cried lower away . 
Immediately below our boat was the exhaust of the condensers , a huge stream of water pouring all the time from the ship's side just above the water line . 
It was plain we ought to be quickly away from this , not to be swamped by it when we touched water . 
NO OFFICER ABOARD We had no officer aboard , nor petty officer or member of the crew to take charge . 
So one of the stokers shouted Someone find the pin which releases the boat from the ropes and pull it up ! No one knew where it was . 
We felt on the floor and sides , but found nothing , and it was hard to move among so many people we had sixty or seventy on board . 
Stop lowering , our crew shouted , and the crew of No. , now only twenty feet above , shouted the same . 
The next drop would have brought her on our heads , but just before she dropped another stoker sprang to the ropes , with his knife . 
We drifted away easily , as the oars were got out , and headed directly away from the ship . 
The crew seemed to me to be mostly stewards or cooks in white jackets , two to an oar , with a stoker at the tiller . 
It was now about A. M. a beautiful starlight night , with no moon , and so not very light . 
WATCHED THE TITANIC The captain stoker told us that he had been at sea twenty six years , and had never yet seen such a calm night on the Atlantic . 
As we rowed away from the Titanic , we looked back from time to time to watch her , and a more striking spectacle it was not possible for anyone to see . 
In the distance it looked an enormous length , its great bulk outlined in black against the starry sky , every port hole and saloon blazing with light . 
When his mother was put into the life boat he kissed her and told her to be brave , saying that he and his father would be all right . 
He and Mr. Thayer stood on the deck as the small boat in which Mrs. Thayer was a passenger made off from the side of the Titanic over the smooth sea . 
There was no great shock , I was on my feet at the time and I do not think it was enough to throw anyone down . 
I put on an overcoat and rushed up on A deck on the port side . 
I then went forward to the bow to see if I could see any signs of ice . 
The only ice I saw was on the well deck . 
I could not see very far ahead , having just come out of a brightly lighted room . 
I then went down to our room and my father and mother came on deck with me , to the starboard side of A deck . 
We could not see anything there . 
Father thought he saw small pieces of ice floating around , but I could not see any myself . 
There was no big berg . 
We walked around to the port side , and the ship had then a fair list to port . 
We stayed there looking over the side for about five minutes . 
The list seemed very slowly to be increasing . 
We then went down to our rooms on C deck , all of us dressing quickly , putting on all our clothes . 
We all put on life preservers , and over these we put our overcoats . 
Then we hurried up on deck and walked around , looking out at different places until the women were all ordered to collect on the port side . 
SEPARATED FROM PARENTS Father and I said good bye to mother at the top of the stairs on A deck . 
She and the maid went right out on A deck on the port side and we went to the starboard side . 
As at this time we had no idea the boat would sink we walked around A deck and then went to B deck . 
Then we thought we would go back to see if mother had gotten off safely , and went to the port side of A deck . 
We met the chief steward of the main dining saloon and he told us that mother had not yet taken a boat , and he took us to her . 
Father and mother went ahead and I followed . 
They went down to B deck and a crowd got in front of me and I was not able to catch them , and lost sight of them . 
As soon as I could get through the crowd I tried to find them on B deck , but without success . 
That is the last time I saw my father . 
This was about one half an hour before she sank . 
I then went to the starboard side , thinking that father and mother must have gotten off in a boat . 
All of this time I was with a fellow named Milton C. Long , of New York , whom I had just met that evening . 
On the starboard side the boats were getting away quickly . 
Some boats were already off in a distance . 
He and I stood by the davits of one of the boats that had left . 
I did not notice anybody that I knew except Mr. Lindley , whom I had also just met that evening . 
I lost sight of him in a few minutes . 
Long and I then stood by the rail just a little aft of the captain's bridge . 
THOUGHT SHIP WOULD FLOAT The list to the port had been growing greater all the time . 
About this time the people began jumping from the stern . 
I thought of jumping myself , but was afraid of being stunned on hitting the water . 
He then sat down and I stood up waiting to see what would happen . 
Even then we thought she might possibly stay afloat . 
I got a sight on a rope between the davits and a star and noticed that she was gradually sinking . 
About this time she straightened up on an even keel and started to go down fairly fast at an angle of about degrees . 
As she started to sink we left the davits and went back and stood by the rail about even with the second funnel . 
Long and myself said good bye to each other and jumped up on the rail . 
He put his legs over and held on a minute and asked me if I was coming . 
I told him I would be with him in a minute . 
He did not jump clear , but slid down the side of the ship . 
I never saw him again . 
About five seconds after he jumped I jumped out , feet first . 
I was clear of the ship went down , and as I came up I was pushed away from the ship by some force . 
I saw the ship in a sort of a red glare , and it seemed to me that she broke in two just in front of the third funnel . 
As I pushed my hand from my head it touched the cork fender of an over illust . 
caption READING ROOM OF THE TITANIC illust . 
THE SENATORIAL INVESTIGATION ISMAY ON THE GRILL J. Bruce Ismay , Managing Director of the . 
I looked up and saw some men on the top and asked them to give me a hand . 
One of them , who was a stoker , helped me up . 
In a short time the bottom was covered with about twenty five or thirty men . 
When I got on this I was facing the ship . 
caption SKETCHES OF THE TITANIC BY JACK THAYER These sketches were outlined by John B. Thayer , Jr . 
, on the day of the disaster , and afterwards filled in by L. D. Skidmon , of Brooklyn . 
The stern then seemed to rise in the air and stopped at about an angle of degrees . 
It seemed to hold there for a time and then with a hissing sound it shot right down out of sight with people jumping from the stern . 
The stern either pivoted around towards our boat , or we were sucked towards it , and as we only had one oar we could not keep away . 
There did not seem to be very much suction and most of us managed to stay on the bottom of our boat . 
We were then right in the midst of fairly large wreckage , with people swimming all around us . 
The sea was very calm and we kept the boat pretty steady , but every now and then a wave would wash over it . 
SAID THE LORD'S PRAYER The assistant wireless operator was right next to me , holding on to me and kneeling in the water . 
We all sang a hymn and said the Lord's Prayer , and then waited for dawn to come . 
It was very cold and none of us were able to move around to keep warm , the water washing over her almost all the time . 
Toward dawn the wind sprang up , roughening up the water and making it difficult to keep the boat balanced . 
The wireless man raised our hopes a great deal by telling us that the Carpathia would be up in about three hours . 
or o'clock some men on our boat on the bow sighted her mast lights . 
I could not see them , as I was sitting down with a man kneeling on my leg . 
He finally got up and I stood up . 
We had the second officer , Mr. Lightoller , on board . 
We had an officer's whistle and whistled for the boats in the distance to come up and take us off . 
It took about an hour and a half for the boats to draw near . 
The first took half and the other took the balance , including myself . 
As the Carpathia docked , Mrs. McGough , a brother and several friends of the buyer , met him , and after the touching reunion had taken place the party proceeded to Philadelphia . 
Vivid in detail , Mr. McGough's story differs essentially from one the imagination would paint . 
The Titanic did not plunge into the water suddenly , he declared , but settled slowly into the deep with its hundreds of passengers . 
The collision occurred at minutes of , said Mr. McGough . 
I was sleeping in my cabin when I felt a wrench , not severe or terrifying . 
We dressed hurriedly and ran to the upper deck . 
There was little noise or tumult at the time . 
The promenade decks being higher from the base of the ship and thus more insecure , strained and creaked so we went to the lower decks . 
By this time the engines had been reversed , and I could feel the ship backing off . 
Officers and stewards ran through the corridors , shouting for all to be calm , that there was no danger . 
We were warned , however , to dress and put life preservers on us . 
I had on what clothing I could find and had stuffed some money in my pocket . 
PARTING OF ASTOR AND BRIDE As I passed the gymnasium I saw Colonel Astor and his young wife together . 
She was clinging to him , piteously pleading that he go into the life boat with her . 
He refused almost gruffly and was attempting to calm her by saying that all her fears were groundless , that the accident she feared would prove a farce . 
It proved different , however . 
None , I believe , knew that the ship was about to sink . 
I did not realize it just then . 
When I reached the upper deck and saw tons of ice piled upon our crushed bow the full realization came to me . 
Officers stood with drawn guns ordering the women into the boats . 
All feared to leave the comparative safety of a broad and firm deck for the precarious smaller boats . 
Women clung to their husbands , crying that they would never leave without them , and had to be torn away . 
On one point all the women were firm . 
They would not enter a Life boat until men were in it first . 
They feared to trust themselves to the seas in them . 
It required courage to step into the frail crafts as they swung from the creaking davits . 
Few men were willing to take the chance . 
An officer rushed behind me and shouted You're big enough to pull an oar . 
Jump into this boat or we'll never be able to get the women off . 
I was forced to do so , though I admit that the ship looked a great deal safer to me than any small boat . 
Our boat was the second off . 
Forty or more persons were crowded into it , and with myself and members of the crew at the oars , were pulled slowly away . 
Huge icebergs , larger than the Pennsylvania depot at New York , surrounded us . 
As we pulled away we could see boat after boat filled and lowered to the waves . 
BAND CONTINUED PLAYING As the life boats pulled away the officers ordered the bands to play , and their music did much to quell panic . 
It was a heart breaking sight to us tossing in an eggshell three fourths of a mile away , to see the great ship go down . 
First she listed to the starboard , on which side the collision had occurred , then she settled slowly but steadily , without hope of remaining afloat . 
The Titanic was all aglow with lights as if for a function . 
First we saw the lights of the lower deck snuffed out . 
A while later and the second deck illumination was extinguished in a similar manner . 
Then the third and upper decks were darkened , and without plunging or rocking the great ship disappeared slowly from the surface of the sea . 
People were crowded on each deck as it lowered into the water , hoping in vain that aid would come in time . 
Some of the life boats caught in the merciless suction were swallowed with her . 
The sea was calm calm as the water in a tumbler . 
But it was freezing cold . 
None had dressed heavily , and all , therefore , suffered intensely . 
The women did not shriek or grow hysterical while we waited through the awful night for help . 
We men stood at the oars , stood because there was no room for us to sit , and kept the boat headed into the swell to prevent her capsizing . 
Another boat was at our side , but all the others were scattered around the water . 
Finally , shortly before o'clock , we saw the lights of the Carpathia approaching . 
Gradually she picked up the survivors in the other boats and then approached us . 
When we were lifted to the deck the women fell helpless . 
They were carried to whatever quarters offered themselves , while the men were assigned to the smoking room . 
Of the misery and suffering which was witnessed on the rescue ship I know nothing . 
With the other men survivors I was glad to remain in the smoking room until New York was reached , trying to forget the awful experience . 
To us aboard the Carpathia came rumors of misstatements which were being made to the public . 
The details of the wreck were wofully misunderstood . 
Let me emphasize that the night was not foggy or cloudy . 
There was just the beginning of the new moon , but every star in the sky was shining brightly , unmarred by clouds . 
The boats were lowered from both sides of the Titanic in time to escape , but there was not enough for all . 
Mr. Bride said I was standing by Phillips , the chief operator , telling him to go to bed , when the captain put his head in the cabin . 
We've struck an iceberg , the captain said , and I'm having an inspection made to tell what it has done for us . 
You better get ready to send out a call for assistance . 
But don't send it until I tell you . 
The captain went away and in ten minutes , I should estimate the time , he came back . 
We could hear a terrific confusion outside , but there was not the least thing to indicate that there was any trouble . 
The wireless was working perfectly . 
Send the call for assistance , ordered the captain , barely putting his head in the door . 
What call shall I send ? Phillips asked . 
The regulation international call for help . 
Then the captain was gone Phillips began to send C. Q. D. He flashed away at it and we joked while he did so . 
All of us made light of the disaster . 
The Carpathia answered our signal . 
We told her our position and said we were sinking by the head . 
I did so , and I went through an awful mass of people to his cabin . 
The decks were full of scrambling men and women . 
I saw no fighting , but I heard tell of it . 
I came back and heard Phillips giving the Carpathia fuller directions . 
Phillips told me to put on my clothes . 
Until that moment I forgot that I was not dressed . 
I went to my cabin and dressed . 
I brought an overcoat to Phillips . 
I slipped the overcoat upon him while he worked . 
Every few minutes Phillips would send me to the captain with little messages . 
They were merely telling how the Carpathia was coming our way and gave her speed . 
I noticed as I came back from one trip that they were putting off women and children in life boats . 
I noticed that the list forward was increasing . 
Phillips told me the wireless was growing weaker . 
The captain came and told us our engine rooms were taking water and that the dynamos might not last much longer . 
We sent that word to the Carpathia . 
I went out on deck and looked around . 
The water was pretty close up to the boat deck . 
There was a great scramble aft , and how poor Phillips worked through it right to the end I don't know . 
He was a brave man . 
I learned to love him that night and I suddenly felt for him a great reverence to see him standing there sticking to his work while everybody else was raging about . 
I will never live to forget the work of Phillips for the last awful fifteen minutes . 
I thought it was about time to look about and see if there was anything detached that would float . 
I remembered that every member of the crew had a special life belt and ought to know where it was . 
I remembered mine was under my bunk . 
I went and got it . 
Then I thought how cold the water was . 
I remembered I had an extra jacket and a pair of boots , and I put them on . 
I saw Phillips standing out there still sending away , giving the Carpathia details of just how we were doing . 
We picked up the Olympic and told her we were sinking by the head and were about all down . 
As Phillips was sending the message I strapped his life belt to his back . 
I had already put on his overcoat . 
Every minute was precious , so I helped him all I could . 
BAND PLAYS IN RAG TIME From aft came the tunes of the band . 
It was a rag time tune , I don't know what . 
Phillips ran aft and that was the last I ever saw of him . 
I guess there wasn't a sailor in the crowd . 
I went up to them and was just lending a hand when a large wave came awash of the deck . 
The big wave carried the boat off . 
I had hold of a row lock and I went off with it . 
The next I knew I was in the boat . 
But that was not all . 
I was in the boat and the boat was upside down and I was under it . 
And I remember realizing I was wet through , and that whatever happened I must not breathe , for I was under water . 
I knew I had to fight for it and I did . 
How I got out from under the boat I do not know , but I felt a breath of air at last . 
There were men all around me hundreds of them . 
The sea was dotted with them , all depending on their life belts . 
I felt I simply had to get away from the ship . 
She was a beautiful sight then . 
Smoke and sparks were rushing out of her funnel , and there must have been an explosion , but we had heard none . 
We only saw the big stream of sparks . 
The ship was gradually turning on her nose just like a duck does that goes down for a dive . 
I had one thing on my mind to get away from the suction . 
The band was still playing , and I guess they all went down . 
They were playing Autumn' then . 
I swam with all my might . 
I suppose I was feet away when the Titanic , on her nose , with her after quarter sticking straight up in the air , began to settle slowly . 
When at last the waves washed over her rudder there wasn't the least bit of suction I could feel . 
She must have kept going just as slowly as she had been . 
I forgot to mention that , besides the Olympic and Carpathia , we spoke some German boat , I don't know which , and told them how we were . 
We also spoke the Baltic . 
I remembered those things as I began to figure what ships would be coming toward us . 
I felt , after a little while , like sinking . 
I saw a boat of some kind near me and put all my strength into an effort to swim to it . 
I was all done when a hand reached out from the boat and pulled me aboard . 
It was our same collapsible . 
There was just room for me to roll on the edge . 
I lay there , not caring what happened . 
Somebody sat on my legs they were wedged in between slats and were being wrenched . 
I had not the heart left to ask the man to move . 
It was a terrible sight all around men swimming and sinking . 
I lay where I was , letting the man wrench my feet out of shape . 
Nobody gave them a hand . 
The bottom up boat already had more men than it would hold and it was sinking . 
At first the larger waves splashed over my head and I had to breathe when I could . 
Some splendid people saved us . 
They had a right side up boat , and it was full to its capacity . 
Yet they came to us and loaded us all into it . 
I saw some lights off in the distance and knew a steamship was coming to our aid . 
I didn't care what happened . 
I just lay , and gasped when I could and felt the pain in my feet . 
At last the Carpathia was alongside and the people were being taken up a rope ladder . 
Our boat drew near , and one b y one the men were taken off of it . 
The way the band kept playing was a noble thing . 
How they ever did it I cannot imagine . 
I then learned that the White Star liner Titanic , the greatest ship afloat , had struck an iceberg and was in serious difficulties . 
Within a very few minutes every preparation had been made to receive two or three thousand persons . 
Blankets were placed ready , tables laid with hot soups and coffee , bedding , etc . 
, prepared , and hospital supplies laid out ready to attend to any injured . 
The men were then mustered in the saloon and addressed by the chief steward . 
Every life boat was manned and ready to be launched at a moment's notice . 
Nothing further could be done but anxiously wait and look out for the ship's distress signal . 
At last a blue flare was observed , to which we replied with a rocket . 
Day was just dawning when we observed a boat in the distance . 
ICEBERG AND FIRST BOAT SIGHTED Eastward on the horizon a huge iceberg , the cause of the disaster , majestically reared two noble peaks to heaven . 
Under the command of our chief officer , who worked indefatigably at the noble work of rescue , the survivors in illust . 
caption Above MAIN STAIRWAY ON TITANIC . 
TOP E DECK Below SECOND LANDING . 
JOHN B. THAYER Mrs. Thayer and her son were . 
caption JOHN B. THAYER Second Vice President of the . 
the boat were rapidly but carefully hauled aboard and given into the hands of the medical staff under the organization of Dr . 
We then learned the terrible news that the gigantic vessel , the unsinkable Titanic , had gone down one hour and ten minutes after striking . 
From this time onward life boats continued to arrive at frequent intervals . 
Every man of the Carpathia's crew was unsparing in his efforts to assist , to tenderly comfort each and every survivor . 
Most conspicuous was the coolness and self possession , particularly of the women . 
Pathetic and heartrending incidents were many . 
There was not a man of the rescue party who was not moved almost to tears . 
Women arrived and frantically rushed from one gangway to another eagerly scanning the fresh arrivals in the boats for a lost husband or brother . 
A CAPSIZED BOAT One boat arrived with the unconscious body of an English colonel . 
He had been taking out his mother on a visit , to three others of her sons . 
He had succeeded in getting her away in one of the boats and he himself had found a place in another . 
When but a few yards from the ill fated ship the boat containing his mother capsized before his eyes . 
Immediately he dived into the water and commenced a frantic search for her . 
The doctor gives little hope of his recovery . 
There were , I understand , twelve newly married couples aboard the big ship . 
The twelve brides have been saved , but of the husbands all but one have perished . 
That one would not have been here , had he not been urged to assist in manning a life boat . 
Many similar pathetic incidents could be related . 
Sad eyed women roam aimlessly about the ship still looking vainly for husband , brother or father . 
To comfort them is impossible . 
All human efforts are being exerted on their behalf . 
Their material needs are satisfied in every way . 
But who can cure a broken heart ? SAVED HER POMERANIAN One of the earliest boats to arrive was seen to contain a woman tenderly clasping a pet Pomeranian . 
When assisted to the rope ladder and while the rope was being fastened around her she emphatically refused to give up for a second the dog which was evidently so much to her . 
He is now receiving as careful and tender attention as his mistress . 
A survivor informs me that there was on the ship a lady who was taking out a huge great Dane dog . 
When the boats were rapidly filling she appeared on deck with her canine companion and sadly entreated that he should be taken off with her . 
Human lives , those of women and children , were the first consideration . 
She was urged to seize the opportunity to save her own life and leave the dog . 
She refused to desert him and , I understand , sacrificed her life with him . 
One elderly lady was bewailing to a steward that she had lost everything . 
He indignantly replied that she should thank God her life was spared , never mind her replaceable property . 
The reply was pathetic I have lost everything my husband , and she broke into uncontrollable grief . 
They were W. H. Hoyte , Esq . 
Abraham Hornner , third class passenger . 
S. C. Siebert , steward . 
The sailor and steward were unfortunately dead when taken aboard . 
The passengers lived but a few minutes after . 
They were treated with the greatest attention . 
The funeral service was conducted amid profound silence and attended by a large number of survivors and rescuers . 
The bodies , covered by the national flag , were reverently consigned to the mighty deep from which they had been , alas , vainly , saved . 
Most gratifying to the officers and men of the Carpathia is the constantly expressive appreciation of the survivors . 
He then told of the meeting of the survivors in the cabin of the Carpathia and of the resolution adopted , a statement of which has already been given in another chapter . 
Even Wall Street was neglected . 
Nor was the grief confined to America . 
European nations felt the horror of the calamity and sent expressions of sympathy . 
The President's responses to both messages were also made public . 
The American people share in the sorrow of their kinsmen beyond the sea . 
On behalf of my countrymen I thank you for your sympathetic message . 
The President's acknowledgment follows I deeply appreciate your sympathy with my fellow countrymen who have been stricken with affliction through the disaster to the Titanic . 
We send you our sincerest condolence , and wish to assure you and your nation of the sentiments of friendship and sympathy we feel toward you . 
A similar telegram was sent to the King of England . 
JAMES CARDINAL GIBBONS , Archbishop of Baltimore . 
JOHN CARDINAL FARLEY , Archbishop of New York . 
WILLIAM CARDINAL O'CONNELL , Archbishop of Boston . 
HOUSE ADJOURNED Formal tribute to the Titanic's dead was paid by the House of Representatives when it adjourned for twenty four hours . 
The prayer of the Rev . 
The flags on the White House and other Government buildings throughout the country were at half staff . 
ROME MOURNED MAJOR BUTT A special telegram from Rome stated that one of the victims most regretted was Major Butt , whose jovial , bright character made many friends there . 
Besides autograph letters from the Pope and Cardinal Merry del VaI sic ? to President Taft , the major had with him a signed photograph of the Pontiff , given by him personally . 
Cardinal Merry del Val had several conversations with Major Butt , who declared that the cardinal was the first gentleman of Europe . 
Shortly before he was leaving Rome , regretting that he had not a signed picture of Cardinal Merry del Val , Major Butt entrusted a friend to ask for one . 
The cardinal willingly put an autograph dedication on a picture , recalling their pleasant intercourse . 
It will be insisted that there be an investigation of the loss of life in the Titanic and that the shortage of boats be gone into thoroughly . 
It was pointed out at this time that German vessels , much smaller in size than the Olympic , carried more boats and also that these boats were of greater capacity . 
Modern liners are so designed that they have no accommodations for more life boats . 
Among practical seamen it has long been recognized that the modern passenger ship has nothing like adequate boat capacity . 
The Board of Trade has its own views , and the shipowners also have their views , which are largely based upon the economical factor . 
The naval architects have their opinions , but the practical merchant seaman is not consulted . 
He frankly admitted the necessity for increased equipment without delay . 
The board , he said , was utterly unable to compel the transatlantic vessels to reduce their speed in the contest for express train ships . 
He also said the board could not force ships to take the southerly passage in the spring to avoid ice . 
The regulations under which the Titanic carried life boat accommodations for only about one third of her passengers and crew had not been revised by the committee since . 
At that time the regulations were made for ships of , tons or more . 
The Titanic's tonnage was , , for which the present requirements are altogether insufficient . 
WORK OF RAISING RELIEF FUNDS PROMPT Several foreign governments telegraphed to the British Government messages of condolence for the sufferers . 
The King sent a donation of to the Mansion House fund . 
Queen Mary donated and Queen Alexandra to the same fund . 
Oscar Hammerstein proffered , and the lord mayor accepted , the use of his opera house for an entertainment in aid of the fund . 
The Shipping Federation donated , to the Mayor of Southampton's fund , taking care to explain that the White Star Line was not affiliated with the Federation . 
Some public institutions also offered to take care of the orphaned children of the crew . 
Large firms contributed liberally to the various relief funds , while Covent Garden and other leading theaters prepared special performances to aid in the relief work . 
INDIGNANT GERMANY DEMANDS REFORMS All Germany as well as England was stunned and grieved by the magnitude of the horror of the Titanic catastrophe . 
The Kaiser , with his characteristic promptitude , was one of the first to communicate his sympathy by telegraph to King George and to the White Star Line . 
GERMAN LAWS ALSO INADEQUATE The German laws , governing the safety appliances on board trans oceanic vessels , seem to be as archaic and inadequate as those of the British Board of Trade . 
The maximum provision contained in the German statutes refers to vessels with the capacity of , cubic metres , which must carry sixteen life boats . 
Vice president John B. Thayer and family , of Philadelphia , were also in Berlin a fortnight ago and were guests of the American Consul General and Mrs. Thackara . 
Their anxiety was aggravated by the old fogey methods of the German newspapers , which are invariably twelve or fifteen hours later than journals elsewhere in Europe on world news events . 
William T. Stead was well and favorably known in Germany , and his fate was keenly and particularly mourned . 
Germans have also noted that many Americans of direct Teutonic ancestry or origin were among the shining marks in the death list . 
Colonel John Jacob Astor is claimed as of German , extraction , as well as Isidor Straus , Benjamin Guggenheim , Washington Roebling and Henry B. Harris . 
All of them had been in Germany frequently and had a wide circle of friends and acquaintances . 
Only one well known resident of Berlin was aboard the Titanic , Frau Antoinette Flegenheim , whose name appears among the rescued . 
There is something Calvinistic about such men of the old sea breed . 
They go down with their ships , of their own choice . 
Into the last life boat that was launched from the ship Captain Smith with his own hand lifted a small child into a seat beside its mother . 
Courteous , kindly , of quiet demeanor and soft words , he was known and loved by thousands of travelers . 
When the English firm , A. Gibson Co . 
of Liverpool , purchased the American clipper , Senator Weber , in , Captain Smith , then a boy , sailed on her . 
For seven years he was an apprentice on the Senator Weber , leaving that vessel to go to the Lizzie Fennell , a square rigger , as fourth officer . 
From there he went to the old Celtic of the White Star Line as fourth officer and in he became captain of that vessel . 
For a time he was in command of the freighters Cufic and Runic then he became skipper of the old Adriatic . 
, Germanic , Baltic , Majestic , Olympic and Titanic , an illustrious list of vessels for one man to have commanded during his career . 
It was not easy to get Captain Smith to talk of his experiences . 
One might think that a captain taken from a small ship and put on a big one might feel the transition , he once said . 
The skippers of the big vessels have grown up to them , year after year , through all these years . 
First there was the sailing vessel and then what we would now call small ships they were big in the days gone by and finally the giants to day . 
The Hawke came steaming out of Portsmouth and drew alongside the giantess . 
She was several months in dry dock . 
The result of a naval court inquiry was to put all the blame for the collision on the Olympic . 
Captain Smith , in his testimony before the naval court , said that he was on the bridge when he saw the Hawke overhauling him . 
The Olympic began to draw ahead later or the Hawke drop astern , the captain did not know which . 
Then the cruiser turned very swiftly and struck the Olympic at right angles on the quarter . 
The pilot gave the signal for the Olympic to port , which was to minimize the force of the collision . 
The Olympic's engines had been stopped by order of the pilot . 
Up to the moment the Hawke swerved , Captain Smith said , he had no anxiety . 
The pilot , Bowyer , corroborated the testimony of Captain Smith . 
Up to the time of the collision with the Hawke Captain Smith when asked by interviewers to describe his experiences at sea would say one word , uneventful . 
I have seen but one vessel in distress . 
That was a brig the crew of which was taken off in a boat by my third officer . 
I never saw a wreck . 
I never have been wrecked . 
I have never been in a predicament that threatened to end in disaster of any sort . 
The love of the ocean that took me to sea as a boy has never died . 
I have never outgrown the wild grandeur of the sea . 
I cannot conceive of any vital disaster happening to the Adriatic , he said . 
Modern shipbuilding has gone beyond that . 
There will be bigger boats . 
The depth of harbors seems to be the great drawback at present . 
I cannot say , of course , just what the limit will be , but the larger boat will surely come . 
But speed will not develop with size , so far as merchantmen are concerned . 
The traveling public prefers the large comfortable boat of average speed , and anyway that is the boat that pays . 
High speed eats up money mile by mile , and extreme high speed is suicidal . 
Captain Smith believed the Titanic to be unsinkable . 
I am sure that Captain Smith did everything in his power to save his passengers . 
The disaster is one about which he could have had no warning . 
Things may happen at sea that give no warning to ships' crews and commanders until the harm comes . 
I believe from what I read that the Titanic hit an iceberg and glanced off , but that the berg struck her from the bottom and tore a great hole . 
At that moment , according to the fireman's story , Captain Smith jumped into the sea from the promenade deck of the Titanic with a little girl clutched in his arms . 
Captain Smith was dragged onto the upturned boat , said the fireman . 
He had a life buoy and a life preserver . 
He clung there for a moment and then he slid off again . 
For a second time he was dragged from the icy water . 
Then he took off his life preserver , tossed the life buoy on the inky waters , and slipped into the water again with the words I will follow the ship . 
OTHER FAITHFUL MEN Nor was the captain the only faithful man on the ship . 
Of the many stories told by survivors all seem to agree that both officers and crew behaved with the utmost gallantry and that they stuck by the ship nobly to the last . 
Immediately after the Titanic struck the iceberg , said one of the survivors , the officers were all over the ship reassuring the passengers and calming the more excitable . 
They said there was no cause for alarm . 
When everything was quieted they told us we might go back to bed , as the ship was safe . 
There was no confusion and many returned to their beds . 
We did not know that the ship was in danger until a comparatively short time before she sank . 
Then we were called on deck and the life boats were filled and lowered . 
The behavior of the ship's officers at this time was wonderful . 
There was no panic , no scramble for places in the boats . 
The boat was in command of the fifth officer , H. Lowe , whose actions she described as saving the lives of many people . 
When the collapsible was launched Officer Lowe succeeded in putting up a mast and a small sail . 
He collected the other boats together , in some cases the boats were short of adequate crews , and he directed an exchange by which each was adequately manned . 
He threw lines connecting the boats together , two by two , and thus all moved together . 
Later on he went back to the wreck with the crew of one of the boats and succeeded in picking up some of those who had jumped overboard and were swimming about . 
On his way back to the Carpathia he passed one of the collapsible boats which was on the point of sinking with thirty passengers aboard , most of them in scant night clothing . 
They were rescued just in the nick of time . 
ENGINEERS DIED AT POSTS There were brave men below deck , too . 
A lot has been printed in the papers about the heroism of the officers , said one survivor , but little has been said of the bravery of the men below decks . 
Then they stood up , clasped hands so as to form a circle and died together . 
All of these men helped rake the fires out from ten of the forward boilers after the crash . 
This delayed the explosion and undoubtedly permitted the ship to remain afloat nearly an hour longer , and thus saved hundreds of lives . 
In the list of heroes who went down on the Titanic the names of her engineers will have a high place , for not a single engineer was saved . 
Many of them , no doubt , could not get to the deck , but they had equally as good a chance as the firemen , sixty nine of whom were saved . 
The supposition of those who manned the Titanic was that the engineers , working below , were the first to know the desperate character of the Titanic's injury . 
It was engineers who kept the lights going , saw to the proper closing of bulkhead doors and kept the stoke hole at work until the uselessness of the task was apparent . 
Most of them probably died at their post of duty . 
This supplementary force was under Archie Frost , the builders' chief engineer , and the regular force was under Chief Engineer William Bell , of the White Star Line . 
On the line's ships there is the chief engineer , senior and junior second , senior and junior third , and senior and junior fourth engineers . 
The men are assigned each to his own task . 
There are hydraulic , electric , pump and steam packing men , and the guarantee engineers , representing the builders and the contractors . 
The duty of the guarantee engineers is to watch the working of the great engines , and to see that they are tuned up and in working order . 
They also watch the working of each part of the machinery which had nothing to do with the actual speed of the ship , principally the electric light dynamos and the refrigerating plant . 
One of their first queries was about the musicians of the Titanic . 
Their anxiety was greater than that of any New Yorker , for the members of the band of the Celtic knew intimately the musicians of the ill fated liner . 
Not one of them saved ! cried John S. Carr , 'cellist on the Celtic . 
It doesn't seem possible they have all gone . 
We knew most of them well . 
They were Englishmen , you know every one of them , I think . 
Nearly all the steamship companies hire their musicians abroad , and the men interchange between the ships frequently , so we get a chance to know one another pretty well . 
The thing I can't realize is that happy Jock' Hume is dead , exclaimed Louis Cross , a player of the bass viol . 
He was the merriest , happiest young Scotchman you ever saw . 
His family have been making musical instruments in Scotland for generations . 
I heard him say once that they were minstrels in the old days . 
It is certainly hard to believe that he is not alive and having his fun somewhere in the world . 
At least he helped to make the deaths of many less cruel . 
The first message , which was dated April th , read Steamer Rhein reports passing wreckage and bodies . 
west , eight miles west of three big icebergs . 
Now making for that position . 
Expect to arrive o'clock to night . 
and arrived on ground at o'clock P. M. Start on operation to morrow . 
Have been considerably delayed on passage by dense fog . 
Every effort will be made to identify bodies recovered , and any news will be sent through immediately by wireless . 
The search for bodies will not be abandoned until not a vestige of hope remains for any more recoveries . 
The Mackay Bennett will not make any soundings , as they would not serve any useful purpose , because the depth where the Titanic sank is more than fathoms . 
On April d the first list of twenty seven names of bodies recovered was made public . 
It contained that of Frederick Sutton , a well known member of the Union League of Philadelphia . 
The wireless message , after listing the names , concluded , All preserved , presumably referring to the condition of the bodies . 
Heavy southwest swell has interfered with operations . 
All not embalmed will be buried at sea at o'clock to night with divine service . 
Can bring only embalmed bodies to port . 
He said it was very important that every effort be made to bring all of the bodies possible to port . 
Mr. Franklin then directed A. G. Jones , the Halifax agent of the White Star Line , to charter the Minia and send her to the assistance of the Mackay Bennett . 
Mr. Jones answered this telegram , and said that the Minia was ready to proceed to sea , but that a southeast gale , which generally brings fog , might delay her departure . 
BREMEN SIGHTED MORE THAN A HUNDRED BODIES When the German liner Bremen reached New York the account of its having sighted bodies of the Titanic victims was obtained . 
In the vicinity was seen an iceberg which answered the description of the one the Titanic struck . 
Smaller bergs were sighted the same day , but at some distance from where the Titanic sank . 
Mrs. Johanna Stunke , a first cabin passenger , described the scene from the liner's rail . 
It was between and o'clock , Saturday , April th , she said , when our ship sighted an iceberg off the bow to the starboard . 
As we drew nearer , and could make out small dots floating around in the sea , a feeling of awe and sadness crept over everyone on the ship . 
We saw one woman in her night dress , with a baby clasped closely to her breast . 
Several women passengers screamed and left the rail in a fainting condition . 
There was another woman , fully dressed , with her arms tight around the body of a shaggy dog . 
Those were the only bodies we passed near enough to distinguish , but we could see the white life preservers of many more dotting the sea , all the way to the iceberg . 
The officers told us that was probably the berg hit by the Titanic , and that the bodies and ice had drifted along together . 
Other passengers corroborated Mrs. Stunke . 
On April th the White Star Line officials issued a corrected list of the identified dead . 
THE MACKAY BENNETT RETURNS TO PORT After completing her search the Mackay Bennett steamed for Halifax , reaching that port on Tuesday , April th . 
With her flag at half mast , the death ship docked slowly . 
Her crew manned the rails with bared heads , and on the aft deck were stacked the caskets with the dead . 
The vessel carried on board bodies , and announcement was made that other bodies had been buried at sea . 
Everybody picked up had been in a life belt and there were no bullet holes in any . 
Among those brought to port were the bodies of two women . 
Thus did the waves completely enforce the payment of their terrible toll . 
caption ISADOR STRAUS The New York millionaire merchant and philanthropist who lost his life when the giant Titanic foundered at sea after hitting an iceberg . 
caption ICEBERG PHOTOGRAPHED NEAR SCENE OF DISASTER This photograph shows what is quite . 
LIST OF IDENTIFIED DEAD Following is a list of those whose identity was wholly or partially established ASTOR , JOHN JACOB . 
ADONIS , J. ALE , WILLIAM . 
ASHE , H. W. ADAHL , MAURITZ . 
ADAMS , J. ASPALANDE , CARL . 
ALLEN , H. ANDERSON , W. Y. ALLISON , H. J. BUTT , W. . 
BAILEY , G. F. BARKER , E. T. BUTLER , REGINALD . 
BRISTOW , R. C. BUCKLEY , KATHERINE . 
CHAPMAN , JOHN H. CHAPMAN , CHARLES . 
CONNORS , P. CLONG , MILTON . 
CARBINES , W. DUTTON , F. DASHWOOD , WILLIAM . 
ENGINEER , A. E. F. ELLIOTT , EDWARD . 
FAUNTHORPE , H. GILL , J. H. GREENBERG , H. GILINSKI , LESLIE . 
GIVARD , HANS C. HANSEN , HENRY D. HAYTOR , A. HAYS , CHALES M. HODGES , H. P. HELL , J. C. HEWITT , T. HARRISON , H. H. HALE , REG . 
HOFFMAN , LOUIS M. HINCKLEY , G. Hospital Attendant , no name given . 
JOHANSSON , GUSTAF J. JOHANSEN , A. F. JONES , C. C. KELLY , JAMES , LAURENCE , A. LOUCH , CHARLES . 
LONG , MILTON C. LILLY , A. LINHART , WENZELL . 
MOEN , SEGURD H. NEWELL , T. H. NASSER , NICOLAS . 
NORMAN , ROBERT D. PETTY , EDWIN H. PARTNER , AUSTIN . 
PENNY , OLSEN F. POGGI , . 
RICE , J. R. ROBINS , A. ROBINSON , J. M. ROSENSHINE , GEORGE . 
STONE , J. STEWARD , . 
STOKES , PHILIP J. STANTON , W. STRAUS , ISIDOR . 
WIDENER , GEORGE W. WILLIAMS , LESLIE . 
WIRZ , ALBERT WIKLUND , JACOB A. WAILENS , ACHILLE . 
WHITE , F. F. WOODY , O. S. WERSZ , LEOPOLD . 
Bitter criticism held that he should have been the last to leave the doomed vessel . 
Even in England his survival was held to be the one great blot on an otherwise noble display of masculine courage . 
A prominent official of the White Star Line shook his head meaningly when asked what he thought of Ismay's escape with the women and children . 
He was also charged with urging a speed record and with ignoring information received with regard to icebergs . 
The anguish endured by the families of members of the crew was reported as indescribable , and Southampton was literally turned into a city of weeping and tragic pathos . 
The wives of two members of the crew died of shock and suspense . 
CRIED FOR FOOD Mr. Ismay's actions while on the Carpathia were also criticised as selfish and unwarrantable . 
For God's sake get me something to eat , I'm starved . 
I don't care what it costs or what it is . 
This was the first statement made by Mr. Ismay a few minutes after he was landed on the Carpathia . 
It is vouched for by an officer of the Carpathia who requested that his name be withheld . 
Ismay reached the Carpathia in about the seventh life boat , said the officer . 
I didn't know who he was , but afterward I heard the other members of the crew discussing his desire to get something to eat the minute he put his foot on deck . 
The steward who waited on him reported that Ismay came dashing into the dining room and said . 
Hurry , for God's sake , and get me something to eat , I'm starved . 
I don't care what it costs or what it is . 
The steward brought Ismay a load of stuff and when he had finished it he handed the man a two dollar bill . 
Your money is no good on this ship , the steward told him . 
Take it , insisted Ismay . 
I am well able to afford it . 
I will see to it that the boys of the Carpathia are well rewarded for this night's work . 
This promise started the steward making inquiries as to the identity of the man he had waited on . 
Then we learned that he was Ismay . 
I did not see Ismay after the first few hours . 
He must have kept to his cabin . 
He laid the responsibility for the tragedy on Captain Smith . 
He expressed astonishment that his own conduct in the disaster had been made the subject of inquiry . 
He denied that he gave any order to Captain Smith . 
His position aboard was that of any other first cabin passenger , he insisted , and he was never consulted by the captain . 
He denied telling anyone that he wished the ship to make a speed record . 
He called attention to the routine clause in the instructions to White Star captains ordering them to think of safety at all times . 
He did not dine with the captain , he said , and when the ship struck the berg , he was not sitting with the captain in the saloon . 
The managing director added that he was in his stateroom when the collision occurred . 
, entered the collapsible boat the last small craft left on that side of the vessel . 
Ismay asserted that he did not know there was to be an investigation until the Cunarder docked . 
Mr. William E. Carter , of Bryn Mawr , who , with his family , was saved , confirmed Mr. Ismay's assertions . 
Mr. Ismay's statement is absolutely correct , said Mr. Carter . 
There were no women on the deck when that boat was launched . 
We were the very last to leave the deck , and we entered the life boat because there were no women to enter it . 
The deck was deserted when the boat was launched , and Mr. Ismay and myself decided that we might as well enter the boat and pull away from the wreck . 
If he wants me , I assume that he will write to me . 
I can say nothing , however , that he has not already said , as our narratives are identical the circumstances under which we were rescued from the Titanic were similar . 
We left the boat together and were picked up together , and , further than that , we were the very last to leave the deck . 
I am ready to go to Washington to testify to the truth of Mr. Ismay's statement , and also to give my own account at any time I may be called upon . 
If Mr. Ismay writes to me , asking that I give a detailed account of our rescue I will do so . 
It was , however , the biggest ever suffered by marine insurance brokers . 
The actual amount of insurance was , , , of which the owners themselves held , . 
As to the cargo , it was insured by the shippers . 
The company has nothing to do with the insurance of the cargo , which , according to the company's manifest , was conservatively estimated at about , . 
Cargo , however , was a secondary matter , so far as the Titanic was concerned . 
The ship was built for high priced passengers , and what little cargo she carried was also of the kind that demanded quick transportation . 
LOST MAIL MAY COST MILLIONS Prior to the sailing of the vessel the postal authorities of Southampton cabled the New York authorities that bags of mail matter were on board . 
In a load of bags , said Postmaster Morgan , of New York , it is a safe estimate to say that contained registered mail . 
The size of registered mail packages varies greatly , but packages for each mail bag should be a conservative guess . 
That would mean that , registered packages and letters went down with the Titanic . 
This does not mean , however , that Great Britain will be held financially responsible for all these losses . 
There were probably thousands of registered packages from the Continent , and in such cases the countries of origin will have to reimburse the senders . 
Moreover , in the case of money being sent in great quantities , it is usual to insure the registry over and above the limit of responsibility set by the country of origin . 
In the case of money orders , the postmaster explained , there would be no loss , except of time , as duplicates promptly would be shipped without further expense . 
The postmaster did not know the exact sum which the various European countries set as the limit of their guarantee in registered mail . 
Underwriters will probably have to meet heavy claims of passengers for luggage , including jewelry . 
Pearls of one American woman insured in London were valued at , . 
NO CHANCE FOR SALVAGE The Titanic and her valuable cargo can never be recovered , said the White Star Line officials . 
Sinking in mid ocean , at the depth which prevails where the accident occurred , said Captain James Parton , manager of the company , absolutely precludes any hopes of salvage . 
LIFE INSURANCE LOSS In the life insurance offices there was much figuring over the lists of those thought to be lost aboard the Titanic . 
Nothing but rough estimates of the company's losses through the wreck were given out . 
LOSS TO THE CARPATHIA The loss to the Carpathia , too , was considerable . 
Therefore , the Cunard line in extending the courtesies of the sea to the survivors of the Titanic asked for nothing more than the mere acknowledgment of the little act of kindness . 
The return of the Carpathia cost the line close to , . 
Captain Roden , a well known Swedish navigator , had written an article maintaining this theory in the Navy , a monthly service magazine , in November , . 
With seeming prophetic insight he had mentioned the Titanic by name and portrayed some of the dangers to which shipbuilding for luxury is leading . 
VIEW OF LEWIS NIXON Lewis Nixon , the eminent naval architect and designer of the battleship Oregon , contributed a very interesting comment . 
THE UNSINKABLE SHIP An unsinkable ship is possible , but it would be of little use except for flotation . 
It may be said that vessels cannot be built to withstand such an accident . 
The proper plan is to avoid the accident , and if an accident is unavoidable to minimize the loss of life and property . 
VIEW OF ROBERT H. KIRK The Titanic disaster was discussed by Robert H. Kirk , who installed the compartment doors in the ships of the United States Navy . 
Mr. Kirk's opinion follows The Titanic's disaster will cause endless speculation as to how similar disasters may be avoided in the future . 
She also had doors in the bulkheads , and probably plenty of them , for she was enormous and needed easy access from one compartment to another . 
A Lloyds surveyor in testing one of these hand operated doors started two men on the main deck to close it . 
They worked four hours before they had carried out his order . 
He gave his opinion that the Titanic came to grief through an attempt on the part of the steamship management to establish a new record by the vessel on her maiden voyage . 
The Titanic , General Greely declared , had absolutely no business above Cape Race and north of Sable Island on the trip on which she went to her doom . 
Then , the ship was plunging ahead at such frightful velocity that the Titanic was too close to avert striking the barrier lined up across its path . 
THE ARIZONA A most remarkable case of an iceberg collision is that of the Guion Liner , Arizona , in . 
She was then the greyhound of the Atlantic , and the largest ship afloat tons except the Great Eastern . 
John's , she rammed a monster ice island at full speed eighteen knots . 
The welcome word was passed along that the ship , though sorely stricken , would still float until she could make harbor . 
The vast white terror had lain across her course , illust . 
caption THE SHAPE OF AN ICEBERG Showing the bulk and formation under water and the consequent danger to vessels even without actual contact with the visible part of the iceberg . 
stretching so far each way that , when described , it was too late to alter the helm . 
She was headed for St . 
John's at slow speed , so as not to strain the bulkhead too much , and arrived there thirty six hours later . 
Begob , captain ! said the pilot , as he swung himself over the rail . 
I've heard of carrying coals to Newcastle , but this is the first time I've seen a steamer bringing a load of ice into St . 
DOZENS OF SHIPS PERISH But to the one wounded ship that survives collision with a berg , a dozen perish . 
As long ago as , the steamer President , with people aboard , crossing from New York to Liverpool in March , vanished from human ken . 
In , in the same month , the City of Glasgow left Liverpool for Philadelphia with souls , and was never again heard of . 
In February , , the Pacific , from Liverpool for New York , carrying persons , passed away down to a sunless sea . 
In May , , the City of Boston , from that port for Liverpool , mustering souls , met a similar fate . 
It has always been thought that these ships were sunk by collision with icebergs or floes . 
As shipping traffic has expanded , the losses have been more frequent . 
John's all disappeared without leaving a trace . 
TOLL OF THE SEA Among the important marine disasters recorded since are the following , Jan . 
Steamer London , on her way to Melbourne , foundered in the Bay of Biscay lives lost . 
Steamer Evening Star , from New York to New Orleans , foundered about lives lost . 
Royal Mail steamers Rhone and Wye and about fifty other vessels driven ashore and wrecked at St Thomas , West Indies , by a hurricane about , lives lost . 
British steamer Northfleet sunk in collision off Dungeness lives lost , Nov . 
White Star liner Atlantic wrecked off Nova Scotia lives lost . 
French line Ville du Havre , from New York to Havre , in collision with ship Locharn and sunk in sixteen minutes lives lost . 
Emigrant vessel Cospatrick took fire and sank off Auckland lives lost . 
Hamburg Mail steamer Schiller wrecked in fog on Scilly Islands lives lost . 
American steamer Pacific in collision thirty miles southwest of Cape Flattery lives lost . 
British training ship Eurydice , a frigate , foundered near the Isle of Wight lives lost . 
British iron steamer Princess Alice sunk in the Thames River lives lost . 
French steamer Byzantin sunk in collision in the Dardanelles with the British steamer Rinaldo lives lost . 
Steamer Borussia sank off the coast of Spain lives lost . 
British trading ship Atlanta left Bermuda with men and was never heard from . 
Steamer Teuton wrecked off the Cape of Good Hope lives lost . 
Steamer Daphne turned turtle in the Clyde lives lost . 
American steamer City of Columbus wrecked off Gay Head Light , Massachusetts lived lost . 
Spanish steamer Gijon and British steamer Lux in collision off Finisterre lives lost . 
Steamer Kapunda in collision with bark Ada Melore off coast of Brazil lives lost . 
British steamer Wah Young caught fire between Canton and Hong Kong lives lost . 
Italian steamship Sud America and steamer La France in collision near the Canary Islands lives lost . 
United States warships Trenton , Vandalia and Nipsic and German ships Adler and Eber wrecked on Samoan Islands lives lost . 
Steamer Persia wrecked on Corsica lives lost . 
British steamer Duburg wrecked in the China Sea lives lost . 
British steamship Quetta foundered in Torres Straits lives lost . 
British steamer Shanghai burned in China Seas lives lost . 
Anchor liner Utopia in collision with British steamer Anson off Gibraltar and sunk lives lost . 
Steamer Namehow wrecked in China Sea lives lost . 
Anchor liner Romania , wrecked off Portugal lives lost . 
Anchor liner Trinairia , wrecked off Spain lives lost . 
Steamer Norge , wrecked on Rockall Reef , in the North Atlantic nearly lives lost . 
German steamer Elbe sunk in collision with British steamer Crathie in North Sea lives lost . 
French line steamer La Bourgogne in collision with British sailing vessel Cromartyshire lives lost . 
American steamer Portland , wrecked off Cape Cod , Mass . 
Turkish transport Aslam wrecked in the Red Sea over lives lost . 
Steamer Primus sunk in collision with the steamer Hansa on the Lower Elbe lives lost . 
French steamer Libau sunk in collision with steamer Insulerre near Marseilles lives lost . 
General Slocum , excursion steamboat , took fire going through Hell Gate , East River more than lives lost . 
Brazilian battleship Aquidaban sunk near Rio Janeiro by an explosion of the powder magazines lives lost . 
American steamer Valencia lost off Cloose , Pacific Coast lives lost . 
Italian emigrant ship Sirio struck a rock off Cape Palos lives lost . 
Russian steamer Variag , on leaving Vladivostock , struck by a torpedo and sunk lives lost . 
American steamer Larchmond sunk in collision off Rhode Island coast lives lost . 
American steamers Columbia and San Pedro collided on the Californian coast lives lost . 
Turkish steamer Kaptain foundered in the North Sea lives lost . 
Japanese steamer Mutsu Maru sunk in collision near Hakodate lives lost . 
Japanese training cruiser Matsu Shima sunk off the Pescadores owing to an explosion lives lost . 
The Republic sank while being towed lives lost . 
French line steamer General Chanzy off Minorca lives lost . 
French battleship Liberte sunk by explosion in Toulon harbor lives lost . 
CHAPTER XXVI DEVELOPMENT OF SHIPBUILDING EVOLUTION OF WATER TRAVEL INCREASES IN SIZE OF VESSELS IS THERE ANY LIMIT ? ACHIEVEMENTS IN SPEED TITANIC NOT THE LAST WORD . 
This was for inland water travel , and many centuries passed before the navigation of the sea was dreamed of by adventurous mariners . 
The paintings and sculptures of early Egypt show us boats built of sawn planks , regularly constructed and moved both by oars and sails . 
The Carthaginians and Romans come next in the history of shipbuilding , confining themselves chiefly to the Mediterranean , and using oars as the principal means of propulsion . 
Their galleys ranged from one to five banks of oars . 
The Roman vessels in the first Punic war were over feet long and had rowers , while they carried soldiers . 
Spain , which soon became her rival in this field , built larger ships and long held the lead . 
Yet the ships with which Columbus made the discovery of America were of a size and character in which few sailors of the present day would care to venture far from land . 
England was later in coming into the field of adventurous navigation , being surpassed not only by the Portuguese and Spanish , but by the Dutch , in ventures to far lands . 
Europe long held the precedence in shipbuilding and enterprise in navigation , but the shores of America had not long been settled before the venturous colonists had ships upon the seas . 
The first of these was built at the mouth of the Kennebec River in Maine . 
This was a staunch little two masted vessel , which was named the Virginia , supposed to have been about sixty feet long and seventeen feet in beam . 
Next in time came the Restless , built in or at New York , by Adrian Blok , a Dutch captain whose ships had been burned while lying at Manhattan Island . 
This vessel , thirty eight feet long and of eleven feet beam , was employed for several years in exploring the Atlantic coast . 
The steamship appeared , and grew in size and power until such giants of the wave as the Titanic and Olympic were set afloat . 
To the development of this modern class of ships our attention must now be turned . 
As the reckless cowboy of the West is fast becoming a thing of the past , so is the daring seaman of fame and story . 
Thus has the old time hero of the waves been transformed into one fitted to serve as a clown of the vaudeville stage . 
The advent of steam navigation came early in the nineteenth century , though interesting steps in this direction were taken earlier . 
No sooner was the steam engine developed than men began to speculate on it as a moving power on sea and land . 
Early among these were several Americans , Oliver Evans , one of the first to project steam railway travel , and James Rumsey and John Fitch , steamboat inventors of early date . 
A crude affair was the Clermont , with a top speed of about seven miles an hour but it was the dwarf from which the giant steamers of to day have grown . 
Boats of this type quickly made their way over the American rivers and before regular lines of steamboats were running between England and Ireland . 
In James Watt , the inventor of the practical steam engine , crossed in a steamer from England to Belgium . 
But these short voyages were far surpassed by an American enterprise , that of the first ocean steamship , the Savannah , which crossed the Atlantic from Savannah to Liverpool in . 
Twelve years passed before this enterprise was repeated , the next steam voyage being in , when the Royal William crossed from Quebec to England . 
She used coal for fuel , having utilized her entire hold to store enough for the voyage . 
The Savannah had burned pitch pine under her engines , for in America wood was long used as fuel for steam making purposes . 
Steam engines in those days were not very economical , needing four or five times as much fuel for the same power as the engines of recent date . 
It was not until that the problem was solved . 
On April d of that year a most significant event took place . 
Two steamships dropped anchor in the harbor of New York , the Sirius and the Great Western . 
Both of these had made the entire voyage under steam , the Sirius , in eighteen and a half and the Great Western in fourteen and a half days , measuring from Queenstown . 
The Great Western , on the contrary , had coal to spare . 
Two innovations in shipbuilding were soon introduced . 
These were the building of iron instead of wooden ships and the replacing of the paddle wheel by the screw propeller . 
The screw propeller was first successfully introduced by the famous Swede , John Ericsson , in . 
Ericsson , not being appreciated in England , came to America to experiment . 
Other inventors were also at work in the same line . 
Their experiments attracted the attention of Isambard Brunel , one of the greatest engineers of the period , who was then engaged in building a large paddle wheel steamer , the Great Britain . 
Appreciating the new idea , he had the engines of the new ship changed and a screw propeller introduced . 
By the date named the crossing of the Atlantic by steamships had become a common event . 
The first fleet of the Cunard Line comprised four vessels , the Britannia , Acadia , Caledonia and Columbia . 
The Unicorn , sent out by this company as a pioneer , entered Boston harbor on June , , being the first steamship from Europe to reach that port . 
Regular trips began with the Britannia , which left Liverpool on July , . 
For a number of years later this line enjoyed a practical monopoly of the steam carrying trade between England and the United States . 
Then other companies came into the field , chief among them being the Collins Line , started in , and of short duration , and the Inman Line , instituted in . 
We should say something here of the comforts and conveniences provided for the passengers on these early lines . 
Then there were none of the comfortable smoking rooms , well filled libraries , drawing rooms , electric lights , and other modern improvements . 
By paying nearly double fare a passenger might secure a room for himself , but the room given him did not compare well even with that of small and unpretentious modern steamers . 
Other ocean steamship companies gradually arose , some of which are still in existence . 
But no especial change in ship building was introduced until , when the Oceanic Company , now known as the White Star Line , built the Britannic and Germanic . 
These were the largest of its early ships . 
They were feet long and feet wide , constituting a new type of extreme length as compared with their width . 
In the first White Star ship , the Oceanic , the improvements above mentioned were introduced , the saloons and staterooms being brought as near as possible to the center of the ship . 
All the principal lines built since that date have followed this example , thus adding much to the comfort of the first class passengers . 
Speed and economy in power also became features of importance , the tubular boiler and the compound engine being introduced . 
The side wheel was continued in use in the older ships until this period , but after it disappeared . 
It has been said that the life of iron ships , barring disasters at sea , is unlimited , that they cannot wear out . 
The Olympic and Titanic engines were a combination of the turbine and reciprocating types . 
In regard to the driving power , one of the recent introductions is that of the multiple propeller . 
The best record up to October , , was that of the Teutonic , of five days , sixteen hours , and thirty minutes . 
The Titanic was not built especially for speed , but in every other way she was the master product of the shipbuilders' art . 
Progress through the centuries has been steady , and perhaps the twentieth century will prepare a vessel that will be unsinkable as well as magnificent . 
Until the fatal accident the Titanic and Olympic were considered the last words on ship building but much may still remain to be spoken . 
By various experiments in the Isle of Wight and at St . 
John's I finally succeeded in sending the letter S miles . 
We have since found that the fog and the dull skies in the vicinity of England are exceptionally favorable for wireless telegraphy . 
Then the inventor told of wireless messages being transmitted miles across the Abyssinian desert , and of preparation for similar achievements . 
The one necessary requirement for continued success is that governments keep from being enveloped in political red tape , said he . 
The fact that a message can be flashed across the wide expanse of ocean in ten minutes has exceeded my fondest expectations . 
Some idea of the progress made may be had by citing the fact that in eleven years the range of wireless telegraphy has increased from to miles . 
Not once has wireless telegraphy failed in calling and securing help on the high seas . 
A recognition of this is shown in the attitude of the United States Government in compelling all passenger carrying vessels entering our ports to be equipped with wireless apparatus . 
SUBMARINE SIGNALS Then there are submarine signals to tell of near by vessels or shores . 
This signal arrangement includes a small tank on either side of the vessel , just below the water line . 
Within each is a microphone with wires leading to the bridge . 
If the vessel is near any other or approaching shore , the sounds conveyed through the water from the distant object are heard through the receiver of the microphone . 
If both ears record , the object is ahead . 
LIFEBOATS AND RAFTS The construction of life boats adapts them for very rough weather . 
Those carried on board ship are lighter than those used in life saving service on shore . 
Safety is provided by air tight tanks which insure buoyancy in case the boat is filled with water . 
They have also self righting power in case of being overturned likewise self emptying power . 
Life boats are usually of the whaleboat type , with copper air tight tanks along the side beneath the thwarts , and in the ends . 
Life boats range from twenty four to thirty feet in length and carry from thirty to sixty persons . 
The rafts carry from twenty to forty persons . 
The old fashioned round bar davits can be got for to a set . 
The new style davits , quick launchers in type , come as low as a set . 
Nowadays all life boats are equipped with air tanks to prevent sinking , with the result that metal boats are as unsinkable as wooden ones . 
Comparatively few of the transatlantic steamships have adopted metal life boats . 
Most of the boats are of wood , according to the official United States Government record of inspection . 
caption CHAMBERS COLLAPSIBLE LIFE RAFT Life rafts are of several kinds . 
They are commonly used on large passenger steamers where it is difficult to carry sufficient life boats . 
In most cases they consist of two or more hollow metal or inflated rubber floats which support a wooden deck . 
The small rafts are supplied with life lines and oars , and the larger ones with life lines only , or with life lines and sails . 
The collapsible feature of the Chambers raft consists of canvas covered steel frames extending up twenty five inches from the sides to prevent passengers from being pitched off . 
When the rafts are not in use these side frames are folded down on the raft . 
Some of the German lines stack their collapsible rafts one above another on deck . 
One compartment would accommodate the wireless outfit . 
Another compartment would hold drinking water , and still another would be filled with food . 
The pontoon would follow the line of the ship and seem to be a part of it . 
The means for releasing it before the sinking of the vessel present no mechanical problem . 
It would be too large and too buoyant to be sucked down with the wreck . 
The pontoon would accommodate , not comfortably but safely , all those who failed to find room in the life boats . 
It is Mr. Nixon's plan to instal a gas engine in one of the compartments . 
With this engine the wireless instrument would remain in commission and direct the rescuers after the ship itself had gone down . 
The use of cork is usually considered preferable , as the inflated articles are liable to injury , and jackets are preferable to belts as they can be put on more quickly . 
The latter are usually carried by sea going vessels and are fitted with lamps which are automatically lighted when the buoy is dropped into the water . 
ROCKETS American ocean going steamers are required to have some approved means of firing lines to the shore . 
Cunningham rockets and the Hunt gun are largely used . 
The inaccuracy of the rocket is of less importance when fired from a ship than when fired from shore . 
She is not , however , proof against disaster . 
In view of this fact it is of the utmost importance that present day vessels should be thoroughly provided with the most efficient life saving devices . 
These would seem more important than fireplaces , squash courts and many other luxuries with which the Titanic was provided . 
The comparatively few survivors of the ill fated Titanic were saved by the life boats . 
The hundreds of others who went down with the vessel perished because there were no life boats to carry them until rescue came . 
SURVIVORS URGE REFORM The survivors urge the need of reform . 
The following facts were observed and should be considered in this connection The insufficiency of life boats , rafts , etc . 
not enough officers to carry out emergency orders on the bridge and superintend the launching and control of life boats the absence of search lights . 
The Board of Trade allows for entirely too many people in each boat to permit the same to be properly handled . 
Boats at all times should be properly equipped with provisions , water , lamps , compasses , lights , etc . 
Life saving boat drills should be more frequent and thoroughly carried out and officers should be armed at both drills . 
There should be greater reduction of speed in fog and ice , as damage if collision actually occurs is liable to be less . 
That ocean liners take chances with their passengers , though known to the well informed , is newly revealed and comes with a shock of surprise and dismay to most people . 
If boats are unsinkable as well as fireproof there is no need of any life boats at all . 
But no such steamship has ever been constructed . 
That it is realized that life boats may be necessary on the best and newest steamships is proved by the fact that they carry them even beyond the law's requirements . 
But if life boats for one third of those on the ship are necessary , life boats for all on board are equally necessary . 
True , a steamship is rarely crowded to her capacity , and ordinarily accommodations in life boats for a full list would not be needed . 
But that is no argument against maximum safety facilities , for when disaster comes it comes unexpectedly , and it might come when every berth was occupied . 
So there must be life boats for use in every possible emergency . 
Places must be found for them and methods for handling them promptly . 
The Titanic could have saved everyone aboard . 
In heavy weather , no . 
So there is a problem which it is the duty of marine designers to solve . 
They have heretofore turned their attention to the invention of some new contrivance for comfort and luxury . 
Now let them grasp the far more important question of taking every soul from a sinking ship . 
They can do it , and while they are about it , it would be well to supplement life boats with other methods . 
We like to think and to say that nothing is impossible in these days of ceaseless and energetic progress . 
Certainly it is possible for the brains of marine designers to find a better way for rescue work . 
Lewis Nixon , ship builder and designer for years , is sure that we can revolutionize safety appliances . 
He has had a plan for a long time for the construction of a considerable section of deck that could be detached and floated off like an immense raft . 
He figures that such a deck raft could be made to carry the bulk of the passengers . 
That may seem a bit chimerical to laymen , but Nixon is no layman . 
His ideas are worthy of every consideration . 
Captain William S. Sims , of the United States Navy , who is in a position to know what he is talking about , has made some very pointed comments on the subject . 
The shortest course between New York and the English Channel lies across Nova Scotia and Newfoundland . 
Consequently the shortest water route is over seas where navigation is dangerous by reason of fog and ice . 
It is a notorious fact that the transatlantic steamships are not navigated with due regard to safety that they steam at practically full speed in the densest fogs . 
PROMPT REFORMS The terrible sacrifice of the Titanic , however , is to have its fruit in safety for the future . 
The official announcement is illust . 
caption A diagrammatic map showing how . 
Prompt , immediate and gratifying reform marks this action of the International Mercantile Marine . 
It is doubtless true that this precaution ought to have been taken without waiting for a loss of life such as makes all previous marine disasters seem trivial . 
But the public itself has been inert . 
There were no questions in Parliament and no measures introduced in Congress . 
attracted no public attention , and occasional references to the subject by those better informed did nothing to awake action . 
Those who died bravely without complaint and with sacrificing regard for others did not lose their lives in vain . 
The safety of all travelers for all times to come under every civilized flag is to be greater through their sac rifice . 
Under modern conditions life can be made as safe at sea as on the land . 
There has never been so great a disaster in the history of civilization due to the neglect of so small an expenditure . 
It would be idle to think that this was due simply to parsimony . 
It was really due to the false and vicious notion that life at sea must be made showy , sumptuous and magnificent . 
On April th the Senate , without a dissenting vote , ordered an investigation of the wreck of the Titanic , with particular reference to the inadequacy of life saving boats and apparatus . 
The resolution also directed inquiry into the use by the Titanic of the northern course over a route commonly regarded as dangerous from icebergs . 
Besides investigating the disaster , the committee was directed to look into the feasibility of international agreements for the further protection of ocean traffic . 
, of Oregon , Senator George C. Perkins of California , Senator Theodore E. Burton of Ohio , Senator Furnifold McL . 
Simmons of North Carolina and Senator Duncan U. Fletcher of Florida . 
The Senate Committee began its investigation in New York on Friday , April th , the morning after the arrival of the Carpathia . 
Ismay , the first witness , came to the witness chair with a smile upon his face . 
He was sworn and then told the committee that he made the voyage on the Titanic only as a voluntary passenger . 
Nobody designated him to come to see how the newly launched monster would behave on the initial trip . 
He said that no money was spared in the construction , and as she was built on commission there was no need for the builders to slight the work for their own benefit . 
The accident had happened on Sunday night , April th . 
I was in bed and asleep , he said . 
The ship was not going at full speed , as has been printed , because full speed would be from seventy eight to eighty revolutions , and we were making only seventy five . 
After the impact with the iceberg I dressed and went on deck . 
I asked the steward what the matter was and he told me . 
Then I went to Captain Smith and asked him if the ship was in danger and he told me he thought she was . 
Ismay said that he went on the bridge and remained there for some time and then lent a hand in getting the life boats ready . 
He helped to get the women and children into the boats . 
But Ismay , seeming to scent the drift of the questions , said that he never interfered in any way with the handling of the ship . 
Ismay was asked to give more particulars about his departure from the ship . 
CAPTAIN ROSTRON'S TESTIMONY Captain Rostron , of the Carpathia , followed Mr. Ismay . 
He said the first message received from the Titanic was that she was in immediate danger . 
I gave the order to turn the ship around as soon as the Titanic had given her position . 
I set a course to pick up the Titanic , which was fifty eight miles west of my position . 
I sent for the chief engineer , told him to put on another watch of stokers and make all speed for the Titanic . 
I told the first officer to stop all deck work , get out the life boats and be ready for any emergency . 
The chief steward and doctors of the Carpathia I called to my office and instructed as to their duties . 
The English doctor was assigned to the first class dining room , the Italian doctor to the second class dining room , the Hungarian doctor to the third class dining room . 
They were instructed to be ready with all supplies necessary for any emergency . 
caption DIAGRAM SHOWING THE PROXIMITY OF OTHER STEAMSHIPS TO THE TITANIC ON NIGHT OF DISASTER . 
The captain told in detail of the arrangements made to prepare the life boats and the ship for the receipt of the survivors . 
WEEPS AS HE TELLS STORY Then with tears filling his eyes , Captain Rostron said he called the purser . 
I told him , said Captain Rostron , I wanted to hold a service of prayer thanksgiving for the living and a funeral service for the dead . 
I went to Mr. Ismay . 
He told me to take full charge . 
An Episcopal clergyman was found among the passengers and he conducted the services . 
TITANIC WAS A LIFE BOAT . 
Captain Rostron said that the Carpathia had twenty lifeboats of her own , in accordance with the British regulations . 
Wouldn't that indicate that the regulations are out of date , your ship being much smaller than the Titanic , which also carried twenty life boats ? Senator Smith asked . 
No. The Titanic was supposed to be a life boat herself . 
WIRELESS FAILED Why so few messages came from the Carpathia was gone into . 
Captain Rostron declared the first messages , all substantially the same , were sent to the White Star Line , the Cunard Line and the Associated Press . 
Then the first and second cabin passenger lists were sent , when the wireless failed . 
Senator Smith said some complaint had been heard that the Carpathia had not answered President Taft's inquiry for Major Butt . 
Captain Rostron declared a reply was sent , Not on board . 
Absolutely no censorship was exercised , he said . 
The wire less continued working all the way in , the Marconi operator being constantly at the key . 
Guglielmo Marconi , the wireless inventor , was the next witness . 
Marconi said he was chairman of the British Marconi Company . 
Under instructions of the company , he said , operators must take their orders from the captain of the ship on which they are employed . 
Do the regulations prescribe whether one or two operators should be aboard the ocean vessels ? Yes , on ships like the late Titanic and Olympic two are carried , said Marconi . 
The Carpathia , a smaller boat , carries one . 
The Carpathia's wireless apparatus is a short distance equipment . 
TITANIC WELL EQUIPPED Do you consider that the Titanic was equipped with the latest improved wireless apparatus ? Yes I should say that it had the very best . 
Did you hear the captain of the Carpathia say , in his testimony , that they caught this distress message from the Titanic almost providentally ? asked Senator Smith . 
Is there any signal for the operator if he is not at his post ? I think there is none , said Marconi . 
Ought it not be incumbent upon ships to have an operator always at the key ? Yes but ship owners don't like to carry two operators when they can get along with one . 
The smaller boat owners do not like the expense of two operators . 
SECOND OFFICER TESTIFIES Charles Herbert Lightoller , second officer of the Titanic , followed Marconi on the stand . 
Mr. Lightoller said he understood the maximum speed of the Titanic , as shown by its trial tests , to have been twenty two and a half to twenty three knots . 
Senator Smith asked if the rule requiring life saving apparatus to be in each room for each passenger was complied with . 
Everything was complete , said Lightoller . 
Sixteen life boats , of which four were collapsible , were on the Titanic , he added . 
During the tests , he said , Captain Clark , of the British Board of Trade , was aboard the Titanic to inspect its life saving equipment . 
How thorough are these captains of the Board of Trade in inspecting ships ? asked Senator Smith . 
Captain Clark is so thorough that we called him a nuisance . 
TITANIC KILLED RAPIDLY After testifying to the circumstances under which the life boats were filled and lowered , Lightoller continued . 
The boat's deck was only ten feet from the water when I lowered the sixth boat . 
When we lowered the first , the distance to the water was seventy feet . 
I have inquired especially and have found that for every six persons picked up , five were either firemen or stewards . 
COTTAM TELLS HIS STORY Thomas Cottam , of Liverpool , the Marconi operator on the Carpathia , was the next witness . 
Cottam called the Titanic operator to inform him of the fact , and received the reply . 
Come at once this is a distress message . 
C. Q. D. What did you do then ? I confirmed the distress message by asking the Titanic if I should report the distress message to the captain of the Carpathia . 
How much time elapsed after you received the Titanic's distress message before you reported it to Captain Rostron ? About a couple of minutes , Cottam answered . 
COTTAM RECALLED When the committee resumed the investigation on April th , Cottam was recalled to the stand . 
Senator Smith asked the witness if he had received any messages from the time the Carpathia left the scene of the disaster until it reached New York . 
The purpose of this question was to discover whether any official had sought to keep back the news of the disaster . 
No , sir , answered Cottam . 
I reported the entire matter myself to the steamship Baltic at . 
I told her we had been to the wreck and had picked up as many of the passengers as we could . 
Cottam denied that he had sent any message that all passengers had been saved , or anything on which such a report could be based . 
Cottam said he was at work Monday and until Wednesday . 
He repeated his testimony of the previous day and said he had been without sleep throughout Sunday , Monday , Tuesday and until late Wednesday afternoon when he had been relieved by Bride . 
Did you or Bride send any message declaring that the Titanic was being towed into Halifax ? No , sir , said the witness , with emphasis . 
MARCONI EXPLAINS In an effort to determine whether the signal C. Q. D. might not have been misunderstood by passing ships , Senator Smith called upon Mr. Marconi . 
The C. Q. , said Marconi , is an international signal which meant that all stations should cease sending except the one using the call . 
The D. was added to indicate danger . 
Time after time Senator Smith asked in varying forms why the Titanic did not explain its condition to the Frankfurt . 
Any operator receiving C. Q. D. and the position of the ship , if he is on the job , said Bride , would tell the captain at once . 
Marconi again testified to the distress signals , and said that the Frankfurt was equipped with Marconi wireless . 
He said that the receipt of the signal C. Q. D. by the Frankfurt's operator should have been all sufficient to send the Frankfurt to the immediate rescue . 
ALL APPEALS RECEIVED Under questioning by Senator Smith , Bride said that undoubtedly the Frankfurt received all of the urgent appeals for help sent subsequently to the Carpathia . 
INVESTIGATION CARRIED TO WASHINGTON The first witness when the investigation was resumed in Washington on April d was P. A. S. Franklin , vice president of the International Mercantile Marine Company . 
Franklin testified that he had had no communication with Captain Smith during the Titanic's voyage , nor with Ismay , except one cable from Southampton . 
, as follows Titanic proceeding to Halifax . 
Passengers probably land on Wednesday . 
Since it was mentioned at the Waldorf Saturday we have had the entire passenger staff examined and we cannot find out . 
Asked when he first knew that the Titanic had sunk , Franklin said he first knew it about . 
Mr. Franklin then produced a thick package of telegrams which he had received in relation to the disaster . 
I asked him where he got the information . 
He told me that it had come by wireless from the steamship Virginian , which had been appealed to by the Titanic for aid . 
I asked the Associated Press , said Mr. Franklin , not to send out the dispatch until we had more detailed information , in order to avoid causing unnecessary alarm . 
I was told , however , that the story already had been sent . 
The reassuring statements sent out by the line in the early hours of the disaster next were made the subject of inquiry . 
Tell the committee on what you based those statements , directed Senator Smith . 
We based them on reports and rumors received at Cape Race by individuals and by the newspapers . 
They were rumors , and we could not place our finger on anything authentic . 
west that the Carpathia picked up all the boats and had on board about Titanic survivors passengers and crew . 
It was such a terrible shock that it took me several moments to think what to do . 
Then I went downstairs to the reporters , I began to read the message , holding it high in my hand . 
I had read only to the second line , which said that the Titanic had sunk , when there was not a reporter left they were so anxious to get to the telephones . 
SAFETY EQUIPMENT The Titanic's equipment was in excess of the law , said the witness . 
It carried its clearance in the shape of a certificate from the British Board of Trade . 
I might say that no vessel can leave a British port without a certificate that it is equipped to care for human lives aboard in case of accident . 
Do you know of anyone , any officer or man or any official , whom you deem could be held responsible for the accident and its attendant loss of life ? Positively not . 
No one thought such an accident could happen . 
I think it would be absurd to try to hold some individual responsible . 
Every precaution was taken that the precautions were of no avail is a source of the deepest sorrow . 
But the accident was unavoidable . 
FOURTH OFFICER TESTIFIES J. B. Boxhall , the fourth officer , was then questioned . 
Were there any drills or any inspection before the Titanic sailed ? he was asked . 
Both , said the witness . 
The men were mustered and the life boats lowered in the presence of the inspectors from the Board of Trade . 
How many boats were lowered ? Just two , sir . 
One on each side of the ship ? No , sir . 
They were both on the same side . 
We were lying in dock . 
The witness said he did not know whether the lowering tackle ran free or not on that occasion . 
In lowering the life boats at the test , did the gear work satisfactorily ? So far as I know . 
In lowering a life boat , he said , first the boat has to be cleared , chocks knocked down and the boat hangs free . 
Then the davits are screwed out to the ship's side and the boat lowered . 
At the time of the tests all officers of the Titanic were present . 
Boxhall said that under the weather conditions experienced at the time of the collision the life boats were supposed to carry sixty five persons . 
All of these supplies , said Boxhall , were in the boats when the Titanic left Belfast . 
He could not say whether they were in when the vessel left Southampton . 
It would depend largely upon the people who were to enter . 
If they did as they were told I believe each boat could accommodate sixty five persons . 
Boxhall testified to the sobriety and good habits of his superior and brother officers . 
CARPENTER FOUND LEAKS The captain ordered me to send a carpenter to sound the ship , but I found a carpenter coming up with the announcement that the ship was taking water . 
In the mail room I found mail sacks floating about while the clerks were at work . 
I went to the bridge and reported , and the captain ordered the life boats to be made ready . 
Boxhall testified that at Captain Smith's orders he took word of the ship's position to the wireless operators . 
What position was that ? Forty one forty six north , fifty fourteen west . 
Was that the last position taken ? Yes , the Titanic stood not far from there when she sank . 
After that Boxhall went back to the life boats , where there were many men and women . 
He said they had been provided with life belts . 
caption THE EFFECTS OF STRIKING AN ICEBERG Shows normal . 
DISTRESS ROCKETS FIRED After that I was on the bridge most of the time sending out distress signals , trying to attract the attention of boats ahead , he said . 
I sent up distress rockets until I left the ship , to try to attract the attention of a ship directly ahead . 
I had seen her lights . 
She seemed to be meeting us and was not far away . 
She got close enough , so she seemed to me , to read our Morse electric signals . 
Suppose you had a powerful search light on the Titanic , could you not have thrown a beam on the vessel and have compelled her attention ? We might . 
H. J. Pitman , the third officer of the ship , was the first witness on April d . 
Frederick Fleet , a sailor and lookout man on the Titanic , followed Pitman on the stand . 
Fleet said he had had five or six years' experience at sea and was lookout on the Oceanic prior to going on the Titanic . 
He was in the crow's nest at the time of the collision . 
Fleet stated that he had kept a sharp lookout for ice , and testified to seeing the iceberg and signaling the bridge . 
HAD ASKED FOR BINOCULARS It was made to appear that the blame for being without glasses did not rest with the lookout men . 
Fleet said they had asked for them at Southampton and were told there were none for them . 
One glass , in a pinch , would have served in the crow's nest . 
The committee tried to discover whether it would add to human safety if the ships were fitted with search lights so that at night objects could be seen at a greater distance . 
The testimony so far along this line had been conflicting . 
One of the witnesses said that much dependence is not placed upon the lookout , and that those lookouts who used binoculars constantly found them detrimental . 
Harold G. Lowe , fifth officer of the Titanic , told the committee his part in the struggle of the survivors for life following the catastrophe . 
The details of this struggle have have already been told in a previous chapter . 
In allowing the operator's to sell their stories , said Mr. Marconi , there was no question of suppressing or monopolizing the news . 
He had done everything he could , he said , to have the country informed as quickly as possible of the details of the disaster . 
That was why he was particularly glad for the narratives of such important witnesses as the operators to receive publication , regardless of the papers that published them . 
He repeated the testimony of Cottam that every effort had been made to get legitimate dispatches ashore . 
The Salem , he said , had never got in touch with the Carpathia operator . 
SAW DISTRESS ROCKETS Ernest Gill , a donkey engineman on the steamship Californian , was the first witness on April th . 
He said that Captain Stanley Lord , of the Californian , refused later to go to the aid of the Titanic , the rockets from which could be plainly seen . 
He says the captain was apprised of these signals , but made no effort to get up steam and go to the rescue . 
The Californian was drifting with the floe . 
So indignant did he become , said Gill , that he endeavored to recruit a committee of protest from among the crew , but the men failed him . 
Captain Lord entered a sweeping denial of Gill's accusations and read from the Californian's log to support his contention . 
Cyril Evans , the Californian's wireless operator , however , told of hearing much talk among the crew , who were critical of the captain's course . 
Gill , he said , told him he expected to get for his story when the ship reached Boston . 
Evans told of having warned the Titanic only a brief time before the great vessel crashed into the berg that the sea was crowded with ice . 
The Titanic's operators , he said , at the time were working with the wireless station at Cape Race , and they told him to shut up and keep out . 
Within a half hour the pride of the sea was crumpled and sinking . 
Members of the committee who examined individually the British sailors and stewards of the Titanic's crew prepared a report of their investigations for the full committee . 
This testimony was ordered to be incorporated in the record of the hearings . 
Most of this testimony was but a repetition of experiences similar to the many already related by those who got away in the life boats . 
Within his view from the bridge he discerned , he said , a strange steamship , probably a tramp , and a schooner which was making her way out of the ice . 
The lights of this schooner , he thought , probably were those seen by the anxious survivors of the Titanic and which they were frantically trying to reach . 
WOMEN AT HEARING WEEP Steward Crawford also related a thrilling story in regard to loading the life boats with women first . 
He told of several instances that came under his observation of women throwing their arms around their husbands and crying out that they would not leave the ship without them . 
The pathetic recital caused several women at the hearing to weep , and all within earshot of the steward's story were thrilled . 
William Burke , a first class steward , told of serving dinner at . 
o'clock to Mr. and Mrs. Straus , and later Mrs. Straus' refusal to leave her husband was again told to the committee . 
On April th Marconi produced copies of several messages which passed between the Marconi office and the Carpathia in an effort to get definite information of the wreck and the survivors . 
The senatorial committee investigating the Titanic disaster has served several good purposes . 
J. Bruce Ismay , managing director of the White Star Line , is not held responsible for the ship's high speed . 
In fact , he is barely mentioned in the report . 
Ice positions , so definitely reported to the Titanic just preceding the accident , located ice on both sides of the lane in which she was traveling . 
No discussion took place among the officers , no conference was called to consider these warnings , no heed was given to them . 
The speed was not relaxed , the lookout was not increased . 
The supposedly water tight compartments of the Titanic were not water tight , because of the non water tight condition of the decks where the transverse bulkheads ended . 
Had assistance been promptly proffered the Californian might have had the proud distinction of rescuing the lives of the passengers and crew of the Titanic . 
The mysterious lights on an unknown ship , seen by the passengers on the Titanic , undoubtedly were on the Californian , less than nineteen miles away . 
Eight ships , all equipped with wireless , were in the vicinity of the Titanic , the Olympic farthest away miles . 
The full capacity of the Titanic's life boats was not utilized , because , while only persons were saved , the ship's boats could have carried . 
The Titanic's crew were only meagerly acquainted with their positions and duties in an accident and only one drill was held before the maiden trip . 
Many of the crew joined the ship only a few hours before she sailed and were in ignorance of their positions until the following Friday . 
Many more lives could have been saved had the survivors been concentrated in a few life boats , and had the boats thus released returned to the wreck for others . 
The first official information of the disaster was the message from Captain Haddock , of the Olympic , received by the White Star Line at . 
P. M. , Monday , April . 
In the face of this information a message reporting the Titanic being towed to Halifax was sent to Representative J. A. Hughes , at Huntington , W. Va . 
The message was delivered to the Western Union office in the same building as the White Star Line offices . 
Whoever sent this message , says the report , under the circumstances , is guilty of the most reprehensible conduct . 
The wireless operator on the Carpathia was not duly vigilant in handling his messages after the accident . 
The practice of allowing wireless operators to sell their stories should be stopped . 
It is recommended that all ships carrying more than passengers shall have two searchlights . 
That a revision be made of steamship inspection laws of foreign countries to conform to the standard proposed in the United States . 
That every ship be required to carry sufficient life boats for all passengers and crew . 
That the use of wireless be regulated to prevent interference by amateurs , and that all ships have a wireless operator on constant duty . 
Detailed recommendations are made as to water tight bulkhead construction on ocean going ships . 
Bulkheads should be so spaced that any two adjacent compartments of a ship might be flooded without sinking . 
Transverse bulkheads forward and abaft the machinery should be continued watertight to the uppermost continuous structural deck , and this deck should be fitted water tight . 
