The text is from the first American appearance in book form . 
It was this observation that drew from Douglas not immediately , but later in the evening a reply that had the interesting consequence to which I call attention . 
Someone else told a story not particularly effective , which I saw he was not following . 
This I took for a sign that he had himself something to produce and that we should only have to wait . 
We waited in fact till two nights later but that same evening , before we scattered , he brought out what was in his mind . 
I quite agree in regard to Griffin's ghost , or whatever it was that its appearing first to the little boy , at so tender an age , adds a particular touch . 
But it's not the first occurrence of its charming kind that I know to have involved a child . 
I can see Douglas there before the fire , to which he had got up to present his back , looking down at his interlocutor with his hands in his pockets . 
Nobody but me , till now , has ever heard . 
Nothing at all that I know touches it . 
For sheer terror ? I remember asking . 
He seemed to say it was not so simple as that to be really at a loss how to qualify it . 
He passed his hand over his eyes , made a little wincing grimace . 
For dreadful dreadfulness ! Oh , how delicious ! cried one of the women . 
He took no notice of her he looked at me , but as if , instead of me , he saw what he spoke of . 
For general uncanny ugliness and horror and pain . 
Well then , I said , just sit right down and begin . 
He turned round to the fire , gave a kick to a log , watched it an instant . 
Then as he faced us again I can't begin . 
I shall have to send to town . 
There was a unanimous groan at this , and much reproach after which , in his preoccupied way , he explained . 
It's in a locked drawer it has not been out for years . 
I could write to my man and enclose the key he could send down the packet as he finds it . 
It was to me in particular that he appeared to propound this appeared almost to appeal for aid not to hesitate . 
He had broken a thickness of ice , the formation of many a winter had had his reasons for a long silence . 
The others resented postponement , but it was just his scruples that charmed me . 
I adjured him to write by the first post and to agree with us for an early hearing then I asked him if the experience in question had been his own . 
To this his answer was prompt . 
Oh , thank God , no ! And is the record yours ? You took the thing down ? Nothing but the impression . 
I took that HERE he tapped his heart . 
Then your manuscript ? Is in old , faded ink , and in the most beautiful hand . 
She has been dead these twenty years . 
She sent me the pages in question before she died . 
They were all listening now , and of course there was somebody to be arch , or at any rate to draw the inference . 
But if he put the inference by without a smile it was also without irritation . 
She was a most charming person , but she was ten years older than I. She was my sister's governess , he quietly said . 
She was the most agreeable woman I've ever known in her position she would have been worthy of any whatever . 
It was long ago , and this episode was long before . 
I was at Trinity , and I found her at home on my coming down the second summer . 
Oh yes don't grin I liked her extremely and am glad to this day to think she liked me , too . 
If she hadn't she wouldn't have told me . 
She had never told anyone . 
It wasn't simply that she said so , but that I knew she hadn't . 
I was sure I could see . 
You'll easily judge why when you hear . 
Because the thing had been such a scare ? He continued to fix me . 
You'll easily judge , he repeated YOU will . 
I fixed him , too . 
He laughed for the first time . 
Yes , she was in love . 
That is , she had been . 
That came out she couldn't tell her story without its coming out . 
I saw it , and she saw I saw it but neither of us spoke of it . 
I remember the time and the place the corner of the lawn , the shade of the great beeches and the long , hot summer afternoon . 
It wasn't a scene for a shudder but oh ! He quitted the fire and dropped back into his chair . 
You'll receive the packet Thursday morning ? I inquired . 
Probably not till the second post . 
Well then after dinner You'll all meet me here ? He looked us round again . 
Isn't anybody going ? It was almost the tone of hope . 
Everybody will stay ! I will and I will ! cried the ladies whose departure had been fixed . 
Mrs. Griffin , however , expressed the need for a little more light . 
Who was it she was in love with ? The story will tell , I took upon myself to reply . 
Oh , I can't wait for the story ! The story WON'T tell , said Douglas not in any literal , vulgar way . 
More's the pity , then . 
That's the only way I ever understand . 
Won't YOU tell , Douglas ? somebody else inquired . 
He sprang to his feet again . 
Now I must go to bed . 
And quickly catching up a candlestick , he left us slightly bewildered . 
From our end of the great brown hall we heard his step on the stair whereupon Mrs. Griffin spoke . 
Well , if I don't know who she was in love with , I know who HE was . 
She was ten years older , said her husband . 
Raison de plus at that age ! But it's rather nice , his long reticence . 
Forty years ! Griffin put in . 
With this outbreak at last . 
The last story , however incomplete and like the mere opening of a serial , had been told we handshook and candlestuck , as somebody said , and went to bed . 
Then he became as communicative as we could desire and indeed gave us his best reason for being so . 
We had it from him again before the fire in the hall , as we had had our mild wonders of the previous night . 
It appeared that the narrative he had promised to read us really required for a proper intelligence a few words of prologue . 
Let me say here distinctly , to have done with it , that this narrative , from an exact transcript of my own made much later , is what I shall presently give . 
But that only made his little final auditory more compact and select , kept it , round the hearth , subject to a common thrill . 
The first of these touches conveyed that the written statement took up the tale at a point after it had , in a manner , begun . 
One could easily fix his type it never , happily , dies out . 
He was handsome and bold and pleasant , offhand and gay and kind . 
She conceived him as rich , but as fearfully extravagant saw him all in a glow of high fashion , of good looks , of expensive habits , of charming ways with women . 
The awkward thing was that they had practically no other relations and that his own affairs took up all his time . 
There were plenty of people to help , but of course the young lady who should go down as governess would be in supreme authority . 
There had been for the two children at first a young lady whom they had had the misfortune to lose . 
So far had Douglas presented his picture when someone put a question . 
And what did the former governess die of ? of so much respectability ? Our friend's answer was prompt . 
Excuse me I thought that was just what you ARE doing . 
In her successor's place , I suggested , I should have wished to learn if the office brought with it Necessary danger to life ? Douglas completed my thought . 
She did wish to learn , and she did learn . 
You shall hear tomorrow what she learned . 
Meanwhile , of course , the prospect struck her as slightly grim . 
She was young , untried , nervous it was a vision of serious duties and little company , of really great loneliness . 
She hesitated took a couple of days to consult and consider . 
But the salary offered much exceeded her modest measure , and on a second interview she faced the music , she engaged . 
She saw him only twice . 
Yes , but that's just the beauty of her passion . 
A little to my surprise , on this , Douglas turned round to me . 
It WAS the beauty of it . 
There were others , he went on , who hadn't succumbed . 
He told her frankly all his difficulty that for several applicants the conditions had been prohibitive . 
They were , somehow , simply afraid . 
It sounded dull it sounded strange and all the more so because of his main condition . 
But was that all her reward ? one of the ladies asked . 
She never saw him again . 
The whole thing took indeed more nights than one , but on the first occasion the same lady put another question . 
What is your title ? I haven't one . 
Oh , I have ! I said . 
But Douglas , without heeding me , had begun to read with a fine clearness that was like a rendering to the ear of the beauty of his author's hand . 
I I remember the whole beginning as a succession of flights and drops , a little seesaw of the right throbs and the wrong . 
This convenience , I was told , had been ordered , and I found , toward the close of the June afternoon , a commodious fly in waiting for me . 
I suppose I had expected , or had dreaded , something so melancholy that what greeted me was a good surprise . 
I had no drop again till the next day , for I was carried triumphantly through the following hours by my introduction to the younger of my pupils . 
The little girl who accompanied Mrs. Grose appeared to me on the spot a creature so charming as to make it a great fortune to have to do with her . 
She was the most beautiful child I had ever seen , and I afterward wondered that my employer had not told me more of her . 
The only thing indeed that in this early outlook might have made me shrink again was the clear circumstance of her being so glad to see me . 
I perceived within half an hour that she was so glad stout , simple , plain , clean , wholesome woman as to be positively on her guard against showing it too much . 
I wondered even then a little why she should wish not to show it , and that , with reflection , with suspicion , might of course have made me uneasy . 
To watch , teach , form little Flora would too evidently be the making of a happy and useful life . 
There were naturally things that in Flora's presence could pass between us only as prodigious and gratified looks , obscure and roundabout allusions . 
And the little boy does he look like her ? Is he too so very remarkable ? One wouldn't flatter a child . 
Oh , miss , MOST remarkable . 
Yes if I do ? You WILL be carried away by the little gentleman ! Well , that , I think , is what I came for to be carried away . 
I'm afraid , however , I remember feeling the impulse to add , I'm rather easily carried away . 
I was carried away in London ! I can still see Mrs. Grose's broad face as she took this in . 
In Harley Street ? In Harley Street . 
Well , miss , you're not the first and you won't be the last . 
Oh , I've no pretension , I could laugh , to being the only one . 
My other pupil , at any rate , as I understand , comes back tomorrow ? Not tomorrow Friday , miss . 
He arrives , as you did , by the coach , under care of the guard , and is to be met by the same carriage . 
I have not seen Bly since the day I left it , and I daresay that to my older and more informed eyes it would now appear sufficiently contracted . 
The first day had been , on the whole , as I have expressed , reassuring but I was to see it wind up in keen apprehension . 
This , I recognize , is from the headmaster , and the headmaster's an awful bore . 
Read him , please deal with him but mind you don't report . 
I had better have let it wait till morning , for it gave me a second sleepless night . 
What does it mean ? The child's dismissed his school . 
She gave me a look that I remarked at the moment then , visibly , with a quick blankness , seemed to try to take it back . 
But aren't they all ? Sent home yes . 
But only for the holidays . 
Miles may never go back at all . 
Consciously , under my attention , she reddened . 
They won't take him ? They absolutely decline . 
At this she raised her eyes , which she had turned from me I saw them fill with good tears . 
She shook her head sadly . 
Such things are not for me , miss . 
Is he really BAD ? The tears were still in her eyes . 
Do the gentlemen say so ? They go into no particulars . 
They simply express their regret that it should be impossible to keep him . 
That can have only one meaning . 
At this , with one of the quick turns of simple folk , she suddenly flamed up . 
I found myself , to meet my friend the better , offering it , on the spot , sarcastically . 
To his poor little innocent mates ! It's too dreadful , cried Mrs. Grose , to say such cruel things ! Why , he's scarce ten years old . 
Yes , yes it would be incredible . 
She was evidently grateful for such a profession . 
See him , miss , first . 
Mrs. Grose was aware , I could judge , of what she had produced in me , and she followed it up with assurance . 
You might as well believe it of the little lady . 
Nonetheless , the rest of the day I watched for further occasion to approach my colleague , especially as , toward evening , I began to fancy she rather sought to avoid me . 
I overtook her , I remember , on the staircase we went down together , and at the bottom I detained her , holding her there with a hand on her arm . 
I take what you said to me at noon as a declaration that YOU'VE never known him to be bad . 
She threw back her head she had clearly , by this time , and very honestly , adopted an attitude . 
Oh , never known him I don't pretend THAT ! I was upset again . 
Then you HAVE known him ? Yes indeed , miss , thank God ! On reflection I accepted this . 
You mean that a boy who never is ? Is no boy for ME ! I held her tighter . 
You like them with the spirit to be naughty ? Then , keeping pace with her answer , So do I ! I eagerly brought out . 
But not to the degree to contaminate To contaminate ? my big word left her at a loss . 
She stared , taking my meaning in but it produced in her an odd laugh . 
But the next day , as the hour for my drive approached , I cropped up in another place . 
What was the lady who was here before ? The last governess ? She was also young and pretty almost as young and almost as pretty , miss , even as you . 
Ah , then , I hope her youth and her beauty helped her ! I recollect throwing off . 
I mean that's HIS way the master's . 
But of whom did you speak first ? She looked blank , but she colored . 
Did SHE see anything in the boy ? That wasn't right ? She never told me . 
I had a scruple , but I overcame it . 
Was she careful particular ? Mrs. Grose appeared to try to be conscientious . 
But not about all ? Again she considered . 
Well , miss she's gone . 
I don't know what there was in this brevity of Mrs. Grose's that struck me as ambiguous . 
She was taken ill , you mean , and went home ? She was not taken ill , so far as appeared , in this house . 
We had then a young woman a nursemaid who had stayed on and who was a good girl and clever and SHE took the children altogether for the interval . 
But our young lady never came back , and at the very moment I was expecting her I heard from the master that she was dead . 
But of what ? He never told me ! But please , miss , said Mrs. Grose , I must get to my work . 
III Her thus turning her back on me was fortunately not , for my just preoccupations , a snub that could check the growth of our mutual esteem . 
He was incredibly beautiful , and Mrs. Grose had put her finger on it everything but a sort of passion of tenderness for him was swept away by his presence . 
As soon as I could compass a private word with Mrs. Grose I declared to her that it was grotesque . 
You mean the cruel charge ? It doesn't live an instant . 
My dear woman , LOOK at him ! She smiled at my pretention to have discovered his charm . 
I assure you , miss , I do nothing else ! What will you say , then ? she immediately added . 
In answer to the letter ? I had made up my mind . 
And to his uncle ? I was incisive . 
And to the boy himself ? I was wonderful . 
She gave with her apron a great wipe to her mouth . 
Then I'll stand by you . 
We'll see it out ! I ardently echoed , giving her my hand to make it a vow . 
She held me there a moment , then whisked up her apron again with her detached hand . 
What I look back at with amazement is the situation I accepted . 
I was lifted aloft on a great wave of infatuation and pity . 
I am unable even to remember at this day what proposal I framed for the end of his holidays and the resumption of his studies . 
It was the first time , in a manner , that I had known space and air and freedom , all the music of summer and all the mystery of nature . 
And then there was consideration and consideration was sweet . 
Oh , it was a trap not designed , but deep to my imagination , to my delicacy , perhaps to my vanity to whatever , in me , was most excitable . 
The best way to picture it all is to say that I was off my guard . 
They gave me so little trouble they were of a gentleness so extraordinary . 
I used to speculate but even this with a dim disconnectedness as to how the rough future would handle them and might bruise them . 
It may be , of course , above all , that what suddenly broke into this gives the previous time a charm of stillness that hush in which something gathers or crouches . 
The change was actually like the spring of a beast . 
I daresay I fancied myself , in short , a remarkable young woman and took comfort in the faith that this would more publicly appear . 
Well , I needed to be remarkable to offer a front to the remarkable things that presently gave their first sign . 
It was plump , one afternoon , in the middle of my very hour the children were tucked away , and I had come out for my stroll . 
Someone would appear there at the turn of a path and would stand before me and smile and approve . 
What arrested me on the spot and with a shock much greater than any vision had allowed for was the sense that my imagination had , in a flash , turned real . 
He did stand there ! but high up , beyond the lawn and at the very top of the tower to which , on that first morning , little Flora had conducted me . 
My second was a violent perception of the mistake of my first the man who met my eyes was not the person I had precipitately supposed . 
There came to me thus a bewilderment of vision of which , after these years , there is no living view that I can hope to give . 
I had not seen it in Harley Street I had not seen it anywhere . 
The place , moreover , in the strangest way in the world , had , on the instant , and by the very fact of its appearance , become a solitude . 
To me at least , making my statement here with a deliberation with which I have never made it , the whole feeling of the moment returns . 
It was as if , while I took in what I did take in all the rest of the scene had been stricken with death . 
I can hear again , as I write , the intense hush in which the sounds of evening dropped . 
The rooks stopped cawing in the golden sky , and the friendly hour lost , for the minute , all its voice . 
But there was no other change in nature , unless indeed it were a change that I saw with a stranger sharpness . 
The gold was still in the sky , the clearness in the air , and the man who looked at me over the battlements was as definite as a picture in a frame . 
That's how I thought , with extraordinary quickness , of each person that he might have been and that he was not . 
The great question , or one of these , is , afterward , I know , with regard to certain matters , the question of how long they have lasted . 
It lasted while I just bridled a little with the sense that my office demanded that there should be no such ignorance and no such person . 
He was in one of the angles , the one away from the house , very erect , as it struck me , and with both hands on the ledge . 
He stopped at the other corner , but less long , and even as he turned away still markedly fixed me . 
He turned away that was all I knew . 
IV It was not that I didn't wait , on this occasion , for more , for I was rooted as deeply as I was shaken . 
The most singular part of it , in fact singular as the rest had been was the part I became , in the hall , aware of in meeting Mrs. Grose . 
Here it was another affair here , for many days after , it was a queer affair enough . 
There were hours , from day to day or at least there were moments , snatched even from clear duties when I had to shut myself up to think . 
It took little time to see that I could sound without forms of inquiry and without exciting remark any domestic complications . 
Of whatever it was that I knew , nothing was known around me . 
There was but one sane inference someone had taken a liberty rather gross . 
That was what , repeatedly , I dipped into my room and locked the door to say to myself . 
If he had given me such a bold hard stare , that was but a part of his indiscretion . 
The good thing , after all , was that we should surely see no more of him . 
This was not so good a thing , I admit , as not to leave me to judge that what , essentially , made nothing else much signify was simply my charming work . 
My charming work was just my life with Miles and Flora , and through nothing could I so like it as through feeling that I could throw myself into it in trouble . 
I don't mean by this , of course , that we studied only fiction and verse I mean I can express no otherwise the sort of interest my companions inspired . 
There was one direction , assuredly , in which these discoveries stopped deep obscurity continued to cover the region of the boy's conduct at school . 
It had been promptly given me , I have noted , to face that mystery without a pang . 
Perhaps even it would be nearer the truth to say that without a word he himself had cleared it up . 
He had made the whole charge absurd . 
that kept them how shall I express it ? almost impersonal and certainly quite unpunishable . 
He had never for a second suffered . 
I took this as a direct disproof of his having really been chastised . 
If he had been wicked he would have caught it , and I should have caught it by the rebound I should have found the trace . 
I found nothing at all , and he was therefore an angel . 
He never spoke of his school , never mentioned a comrade or a master and I , for my part , was quite too much disgusted to allude to them . 
Of course I was under the spell , and the wonderful part is that , even at the time , I perfectly knew I was . 
But I gave myself up to it it was an antidote to any pain , and I had more pains than one . 
I was in receipt in these days of disturbing letters from home , where things were not going well . 
But with my children , what things in the world mattered ? That was the question I used to put to my scrappy retirements . 
I was dazzled by their loveliness . 
The rain happily stopped , and I prepared for our walk , which , through the park and by the good road to the village , would be a matter of twenty minutes . 
The gloves had been dropped there , and I turned in to recover them . 
One step into the room had sufficed my vision was instantaneous it was all there . 
The person looking straight in was the person who had already appeared to me . 
His face was close to the glass , yet the effect of this better view was , strangely , only to show me how intense the former had been . 
On the spot there came to me the added shock of a certitude that it was not for me he had come there . 
He had come for someone else . 
I say courage because I was beyond all doubt already far gone . 
But it was in sight of nothing now my visitor had vanished . 
I stopped , I almost dropped , with the real relief of this but I took in the whole scene I gave him time to reappear . 
I call it time , but how long was it ? I can't speak to the purpose today of the duration of these things . 
That kind of measure must have left me they couldn't have lasted as they actually appeared to me to last . 
The terrace and the whole place , the lawn and the garden beyond it , all I could see of the park , were empty with a great emptiness . 
There were shrubberies and big trees , but I remember the clear assurance I felt that none of them concealed him . 
He was there or was not there not there if I didn't see him . 
I got hold of this then , instinctively , instead of returning as I had come , went to the window . 
It was confusedly present to me that I ought to place myself where he had stood . 
I did so I applied my face to the pane and looked , as he had looked , into the room . 
With this I had the full image of a repetition of what had already occurred . 
She saw me as I had seen my own visitant she pulled up short as I had done I gave her something of the shock that I had received . 
She turned white , and this made me ask myself if I had blanched as much . 
She stared , in short , and retreated on just MY lines , and I knew she had then passed out and come round to me and that I should presently meet her . 
I remained where I was , and while I waited I thought of more things than one . 
But there's only one I take space to mention . 
I wondered why SHE should be scared . 
V Oh , she let me know as soon as , round the corner of the house , she loomed again into view . 
What in the name of goodness is the matter ? She was now flushed and out of breath . 
I said nothing till she came quite near . 
With me ? I must have made a wonderful face . 
Do I show it ? You're as white as a sheet . 
I considered I could meet on this , without scruple , any innocence . 
I put out my hand to her and she took it I held her hard a little , liking to feel her close to me . 
There was a kind of support in the shy heave of her surprise . 
You came for me for church , of course , but I can't go . 
Has anything happened ? Yes . 
Did I look very queer ? Through this window ? Dreadful ! Well , I said , I've been frightened . 
Mrs. Grose's eyes expressed plainly that SHE had no wish to be , yet also that she knew too well her place not to be ready to share with me any marked inconvenience . 
Oh , it was quite settled that she MUST share ! Just what you saw from the dining room a minute ago was the effect of that . 
What I saw just before was much worse . 
What was it ? An extraordinary man . 
What extraordinary man ? I haven't the least idea . 
Mrs. Grose gazed round us in vain . 
Then where is he gone ? I know still less . 
Have you seen him before ? Yes once . 
She could only look at me harder . 
Do you mean he's a stranger ? Oh , very much ! Yet you didn't tell me ? No for reasons . 
But now that you've guessed Mrs. Grose's round eyes encountered this charge . 
Ah , I haven't guessed ! she said very simply . 
How can I if YOU don't imagine ? I don't in the very least . 
You've seen him nowhere but on the tower ? And on this spot just now . 
Mrs. Grose looked round again . 
What was he doing on the tower ? Only standing there and looking down at me . 
Was he a gentleman ? I found I had no need to think . 
No. She gazed in deeper wonder . 
No. Then nobody about the place ? Nobody from the village ? Nobody nobody . 
I didn't tell you , but I made sure . 
She breathed a vague relief this was , oddly , so much to the good . 
It only went indeed a little way . 
But if he isn't a gentleman What IS he ? He's a horror . 
It's time we should be at church . 
Oh , I'm not fit for church ! Won't it do you good ? It won't do THEM ! I nodded at the house . 
The children ? I can't leave them now . 
You're afraid ? I spoke boldly . 
When was it on the tower ? About the middle of the month . 
Almost at dark , said Mrs. Grose . 
Oh , no , not nearly . 
I saw him as I see you . 
Then how did he get in ? And how did he get out ? I laughed . 
I had no opportunity to ask him ! This evening , you see , I pursued , he has not been able to get in . 
He only peeps ? I hope it will be confined to that ! She had now let go my hand she turned away a little . 
I waited an instant then I brought out Go to church . 
Slowly she faced me again . 
Do you fear for them ? We met in another long look . 
Don't YOU ? Instead of answering she came nearer to the window and , for a minute , applied her face to the glass . 
You see how he could see , I meanwhile went on . 
How long was he here ? Till I came out . 
I came to meet him . 
Mrs. Grose at last turned round , and there was still more in her face . 
I couldn't have come out . 
Neither could I ! I laughed again . 
So have I mine , she replied after which she added What is he like ? I've been dying to tell you . 
Then seeing in her face that she already , in this , with a deeper dismay , found a touch of picture , I quickly added stroke to stroke . 
His eyebrows are , somehow , darker they look particularly arched and as if they might move a good deal . 
His eyes are sharp , strange awfully but I only know clearly that they're rather small and very fixed . 
His mouth's wide , and his lips are thin , and except for his little whiskers he's quite clean shaven . 
He gives me a sort of sense of looking like an actor . 
An actor ! It was impossible to resemble one less , at least , than Mrs. Grose at that moment . 
I've never seen one , but so I suppose them . 
He's tall , active , erect , I continued , but never no , never ! a gentleman . 
My companion's face had blanched as I went on her round eyes started and her mild mouth gaped . 
A gentleman ? she gasped , confounded , stupefied a gentleman HE ? You know him then ? She visibly tried to hold herself . 
But he IS handsome ? I saw the way to help her . 
Remarkably ! And dressed ? In somebody's clothes . 
They're smart , but they're not his own . 
She broke into a breathless affirmative groan They're the master's ! I caught it up . 
You DO know him ? She faltered but a second . 
Quint ? Peter Quint his own man , his valet , when he was here ! When the master was ? Gaping still , but meeting me , she pieced it all together . 
He never wore his hat , but he did wear well , there were waistcoats missed . 
They were both here last year . 
Then the master went , and Quint was alone . 
I followed , but halting a little . 
Alone ? Alone with US . 
Then , as from a deeper depth , In charge , she added . 
And what became of him ? She hung fire so long that I was still more mystified . 
He went , too , she brought out at last . 
Went where ? Her expression , at this , became extraordinary . 
God knows where ! He died . 
Died ? I almost shrieked . 
She seemed fairly to square herself , plant herself more firmly to utter the wonder of it . 
The result of our having everything out was simply to reduce our situation to the last rigor of its elements . 
It was the idea , the second movement , that led me straight out , as I may say , of the inner chamber of my dread . 
I could take the air in the court , at least , and there Mrs. Grose could join me . 
Perfectly can I recall now the particular way strength came to me before we separated for the night . 
We had gone over and over every feature of what I had seen . 
He was looking for someone else , you say someone who was not you ? He was looking for little Miles . 
A portentous clearness now possessed me . 
THAT'S whom he was looking for . 
But how do you know ? I know , I know , I know ! My exaltation grew . 
And YOU know , my dear ! She didn't deny this , but I required , I felt , not even so much telling as that . 
She resumed in a moment , at any rate What if HE should see him ? Little Miles ? That's what he wants ! She looked immensely scared again . 
The child ? Heaven forbid ! The man . 
He wants to appear to THEM . 
The children , in especial , I should thus fence about and absolutely save . 
I recall one of the last things I said that night to Mrs. Grose . 
It does strike me that my pupils have never mentioned She looked at me hard as I musingly pulled up . 
His having been here and the time they were with him ? The time they were with him , and his name , his presence , his history , in any way . 
Oh , the little lady doesn't remember . 
She never heard or knew . 
The circumstances of his death ? I thought with some intensity . 
But Miles would remember Miles would know . 
Ah , don't try him ! broke from Mrs. Grose . 
I returned her the look she had given me . 
That he has never spoken of him ? Never by the least allusion . 
And you tell me they were great friends' ? Oh , it wasn't HIM ! Mrs. Grose with emphasis declared . 
It was Quint's own fancy . 
To play with him , I mean to spoil him . 
She paused a moment then she added Quint was much too free . 
This gave me , straight from my vision of his face SUCH a face ! a sudden sickness of disgust . 
It had neither bad name nor ill fame , and Mrs. Grose , most apparently , only desired to cling to me and to quake in silence . 
I even put her , the very last thing of all , to the test . 
It was when , at midnight , she had her hand on the schoolroom door to take leave . 
I have it from you then for it's of great importance that he was definitely and admittedly bad ? Oh , not admittedly . 
I knew it but the master didn't . 
And you never told him ? Well , he didn't like tale bearing he hated complaints . 
All the same , I pressed my interlocutress . 
I promise you I would have told ! She felt my discrimination . 
I daresay I was wrong . 
But , really , I was afraid . 
Afraid of what ? Of things that man could do . 
Quint was so clever he was so deep . 
I took this in still more than , probably , I showed . 
You weren't afraid of anything else ? Not of his effect ? His effect ? she repeated with a face of anguish and waiting while I faltered . 
On innocent little precious lives . 
They were in your charge . 
No , they were not in mine ! she roundly and distressfully returned . 
The master believed in him and placed him here because he was supposed not to be well and the country air so good for him . 
So he had everything to say . 
Yes she let me have it even about THEM . 
Them that creature ? I had to smother a kind of howl . 
And you could bear it ! No. I couldn't and I can't now ! And the poor woman burst into tears . 
I myself had kept back nothing , but there was a word Mrs. Grose had kept back . 
I was sure , moreover , by morning , that this was not from a failure of frankness , but because on every side there were fears . 
It was an immense help to me I confess I rather applaud myself as I look back ! that I saw my service so strongly and so simply . 
We were cut off , really , together we were united in our danger . 
They had nothing but me , and I well , I had THEM . 
It was in short a magnificent chance . 
This chance presented itself to me in an image richly material . 
I was a screen I was to stand before them . 
The more I saw , the less they would . 
I began to watch them in a stifled suspense , a disguised excitement that might well , had it continued too long , have turned to something like madness . 
What saved me , as I now see , was that it turned to something else altogether . 
It didn't last as suspense it was superseded by horrible proofs . 
Proofs , I say , yes from the moment I really took hold . 
This moment dated from an afternoon hour that I happened to spend in the grounds with the younger of my pupils alone . 
They were never importunate and yet never listless . 
My attention to them all really went to seeing them amuse themselves immensely without me this was a spectacle they seemed actively to prepare and that engaged me as an active admirer . 
I forget what I was on the present occasion I only remember that I was something very important and very quiet and that Flora was playing very hard . 
We were on the edge of the lake , and , as we had lately begun geography , the lake was the Sea of Azof . 
Suddenly , in these circumstances , I became aware that , on the other side of the Sea of Azof , we had an interested spectator . 
The way this knowledge gathered in me was the strangest thing in the world the strangest , that is , except the very much stranger in which it quickly merged itself . 
The old trees , the thick shrubbery , made a great and pleasant shade , but it was all suffused with the brightness of the hot , still hour . 
There was an alien object in view a figure whose right of presence I instantly , passionately questioned . 
That reminder had as little effect on my practical certitude as I was conscious still even without looking of its having upon the character and attitude of our visitor . 
Nothing was more natural than that these things should be the other things that they absolutely were not . 
This was her attitude when I at last looked at her looked with the confirmed conviction that we were still , together , under direct personal notice . 
This second morsel , as I watched her , she was very markedly and intently attempting to tighten in its place . 
My apprehension of what she was doing sustained me so that after some seconds I felt I was ready for more . 
Then I again shifted my eyes I faced what I had to face . 
VII I got hold of Mrs. Grose as soon after this as I could and I can give no intelligible account of how I fought out the interval . 
Two hours ago , in the garden I could scarce articulate Flora SAW ! Mrs. Grose took it as she might have taken a blow in the stomach . 
She has told you ? she panted . 
Not a word that's the horror . 
She kept it to herself ! The child of eight , THAT child ! Unutterable still , for me , was the stupefaction of it . 
Mrs. Grose , of course , could only gape the wider . 
Then how do you know ? I was there I saw with my eyes saw that she was perfectly aware . 
Do you mean aware of HIM ? No of HER . 
I was conscious as I spoke that I looked prodigious things , for I got the slow reflection of them in my companion's face . 
I was there with the child quiet for the hour and in the midst of it she came . 
Came how from where ? From where they come from ! She just appeared and stood there but not so near . 
Was she someone you've never seen ? Yes . 
But someone the child has . 
Then , to show how I had thought it all out My predecessor the one who died . 
Miss Jessel ? Miss Jessel . 
You don't believe me ? I pressed . 
She turned right and left in her distress . 
How can you be sure ? This drew from me , in the state of my nerves , a flash of impatience . 
Then ask Flora SHE'S sure ! But I had no sooner spoken than I caught myself up . 
No , for God's sake , DON'T ! She'll say she isn't she'll lie ! Mrs. Grose was not too bewildered instinctively to protest . 
Ah , how CAN you ? Because I'm clear . 
Flora doesn't want me to know . 
It's only then to spare you . 
I don't know what I DON'T see what I DON'T fear ! Mrs. Grose tried to keep up with me . 
You mean you're afraid of seeing her again ? Oh , no that's nothing now ! Then I explained . 
It's of NOT seeing her . 
But my companion only looked wan . 
Why , it's that the child may keep it up and that the child assuredly WILL without my knowing it . 
Dear , dear we must keep our heads ! And after all , if she doesn't mind it ! She even tried a grim joke . 
Perhaps she likes it ! Likes SUCH things a scrap of an infant ! Isn't it just a proof of her blessed innocence ? my friend bravely inquired . 
She brought me , for the instant , almost round . 
Mrs. Grose , at this , fixed her eyes a minute on the ground then at last raising them , Tell me how you know , she said . 
Then you admit it's what she was ? I cried . 
Tell me how you know , my friend simply repeated . 
Know ? By seeing her ! By the way she looked . 
At you , do you mean so wickedly ? Dear me , no I could have borne that . 
She gave me never a glance . 
She only fixed the child . 
Mrs. Grose tried to see it . 
Fixed her ? Ah , with such awful eyes ! She stared at mine as if they might really have resembled them . 
Do you mean of dislike ? God help us , no . 
Worse than dislike ? this left her indeed at a loss . 
With a kind of fury of intention . 
I made her turn pale . 
Intention ? To get hold of her . 
Mrs. Grose her eyes just lingering on mine gave a shudder and walked to the window and while she stood there looking out I completed my statement . 
After a little she turned round . 
The person was in black , you say ? In mourning rather poor , almost shabby . 
But yes with extraordinary beauty . 
I now recognized to what I had at last , stroke by stroke , brought the victim of my confidence , for she quite visibly weighed this . 
Oh , handsome very , very , I insisted wonderfully handsome . 
She slowly came back to me . 
She once more took my hand in both her own , holding it as tight as if to fortify me against the increase of alarm I might draw from this disclosure . 
They were both infamous , she finally said . 
So , for a little , we faced it once more together and I found absolutely a degree of help in seeing it now so straight . 
I appreciate , I said , the great decency of your not having hitherto spoken but the time has certainly come to give me the whole thing . 
She appeared to assent to this , but still only in silence seeing which I went on I must have it now . 
Of what did she die ? Come , there was something between them . 
In spite of the difference ? Oh , of their rank , their condition she brought it woefully out . 
I turned it over I again saw . 
Yes she was a lady . 
And he so dreadfully below , said Mrs. Grose . 
The fellow was a hound . 
Mrs. Grose considered as if it were perhaps a little a case for a sense of shades . 
I've never seen one like him . 
He did what he wished . 
With HER ? With them all . 
It was as if now in my friend's own eyes Miss Jessel had again appeared . 
Fancy it here for a governess ! And afterward I imagined and I still imagine . 
And what I imagine is dreadful . 
Not so dreadful as what I do , I replied on which I must have shown her as I was indeed but too conscious a front of miserable defeat . 
It brought out again all her compassion for me , and at the renewed touch of her kindness my power to resist broke down . 
I burst , as I had , the other time , made her burst , into tears she took me to her motherly breast , and my lamentation overflowed . 
It was my new suspicion that was intolerable and yet even to this complication the later hours of the day had brought a little ease . 
She had looked at me in sweet speculation and then had accused me to my face of having cried . 
I should not for instance have been able to asseverate to my friend that I was certain which was so much to the good that I at least had not betrayed myself . 
I don't believe anything so horrible , I recollect saying no , let us put it definitely , my dear , that I don't . 
Therefore you might perfectly have made the claim for him if you had not , as it happened , seen an exception to take . 
What my friend had had in mind proved to be immensely to the purpose . 
It was neither more nor less than the circumstance that for a period of several months Quint and the boy had been perpetually together . 
Miss Jessel had , with a most strange manner , requested her to mind her business , and the good woman had , on this , directly approached little Miles . 
What she had said to him , since I pressed , was that SHE liked to see young gentlemen not forget their station . 
I pressed again , of course , at this . 
You reminded him that Quint was only a base menial ? As you might say ! And it was his answer , for one thing , that was bad . 
And for another thing ? I waited . 
He repeated your words to Quint ? No , not that . 
It's just what he WOULDN'T ! she could still impress upon me . 
I was sure , at any rate , she added , that he didn't . 
But he denied certain occasions . 
What occasions ? When they had been about together quite as if Quint were his tutor and a very grand one and Miss Jessel only for the little lady . 
When he had gone off with the fellow , I mean , and spent hours with him . 
He then prevaricated about it he said he hadn't ? Her assent was clear enough to cause me to add in a moment I see . 
Oh ! Mrs. Grose mumbled . 
This was a suggestion that it didn't matter which indeed she backed up by a further remark . 
You see , after all , Miss Jessel didn't mind . 
Did he put that to you as a justification ? At this she dropped again . 
No , he never spoke of it . 
Never mentioned her in connection with Quint ? She saw , visibly flushing , where I was coming out . 
Well , he didn't show anything . 
He denied , she repeated he denied . 
Lord , how I pressed her now ! So that you could see he knew what was between the two wretches ? I don't know I don't know ! the poor woman groaned . 
But I shall get it out of you yet ! There was something in the boy that suggested to you , I continued , that he covered and concealed their relation . 
Only , put it to me again ! I cried in a way that made my friend stare . 
There are directions in which I must not for the present let myself go . 
Meanwhile I returned to her first example the one to which she had just previously referred of the boy's happy capacity for an occasional slip . 
Then I went on At all events , while he was with the man Miss Flora was with the woman . 
His having lied and been impudent are , I confess , less engaging specimens than I had hoped to have from you of the outbreak in him of the little natural man . 
Still , I mused , They must do , for they make me feel more than ever that I must watch . 
This came out when , at the schoolroom door , she quitted me . 
Surely you don't accuse HIM Of carrying on an intercourse that he conceals from me ? Ah , remember that , until further evidence , I now accuse nobody . 
Then , before shutting her out to go , by another passage , to her own place , I must just wait , I wound up . 
IX I waited and waited , and the days , as they elapsed , took something from my consternation . 
I trembled lest they should see that they WERE so immensely more interesting . 
There were moments when , by an irresistible impulse , I found myself catching them up and pressing them to my heart . 
They had shown me from the first a facility for everything , a general faculty which , taking a fresh start , achieved remarkable flights . 
They got their little tasks as if they loved them , and indulged , from the mere exuberance of the gift , in the most unimposed little miracles of memory . 
They not only popped out at me as tigers and as Romans , but as Shakespeareans , astronomers , and navigators . 
Let me add that in their company now and I was careful almost never to be out of it I could follow no scent very far . 
We lived in a cloud of music and love and success and private theatricals . 
The musical sense in each of the children was of the quickest , but the elder in especial had a marvelous knack of catching and repeating . 
I had had brothers myself , and it was no revelation to me that little girls could be slavish idolaters of little boys . 
What surpassed everything was that there was a little boy in the world who could have for the inferior age , sex , and intelligence so fine a consideration . 
They were extraordinarily at one , and to say that they never either quarreled or complained is to make the note of praise coarse for their quality of sweetness . 
There is a naive side , I suppose , in all diplomacy but if my pupils practiced upon me , it was surely with the minimum of grossness . 
It was all in the other quarter that , after a lull , the grossness broke out . 
I find that I really hang back but I must take my plunge . 
I had not gone to bed I sat reading by a couple of candles . 
I remember that the book I had in my hand was Fielding's Amelia also that I was wholly awake . 
I recall further both a general conviction that it was horribly late and a particular objection to looking at my watch . 
At this point I precipitately found myself aware of three things . 
They were practically simultaneous , yet they had flashes of succession . 
My candle , under a bold flourish , went out , and I perceived , by the uncovered window , that the yielding dusk of earliest morning rendered it unnecessary . 
Without it , the next instant , I saw that there was someone on the stair . 
I speak of sequences , but I required no lapse of seconds to stiffen myself for a third encounter with Quint . 
He was absolutely , on this occasion , a living , detestable , dangerous presence . 
I had plenty of anguish after that extraordinary moment , but I had , thank God , no terror . 
And he knew I had not I found myself at the end of an instant magnificently aware of this . 
It was the dead silence of our long gaze at such close quarters that gave the whole horror , huge as it was , its only note of the unnatural . 
If I had met a murderer in such a place and at such an hour , we still at least would have spoken . 
Something would have passed , in life , between us if nothing had passed , one of us would have moved . 
The moment was so prolonged that it would have taken but little more to make me doubt if even I were in life . 
She stood there in so much of her candor and so little of her nightgown , with her pink bare feet and the golden glow of her curls . 
as on my consciousness that she addressed me with a reproach . 
You naughty where HAVE you been ? instead of challenging her own irregularity I found myself arraigned and explaining . 
She herself explained , for that matter , with the loveliest , eagerest simplicity . 
She had known suddenly , as she lay there , that I was out of the room , and had jumped up to see what had become of me . 
I remember closing my eyes an instant , yieldingly , consciously , as before the excess of something beautiful that shone out of the blue of her own . 
You were looking for me out of the window ? I said . 
You thought I might be walking in the grounds ? Well , you know , I thought someone was she never blanched as she smiled out that at me . 
Instead of succumbing I sprang again to my feet , looked at her bed , and took a helpless middle way . 
You may imagine the general complexion , from that moment , of my nights . 
But I never met him there again and I may as well say at once that I on no other occasion saw him in the house . 
I just missed , on the staircase , on the other hand , a different adventure . 
I had been there but an instant , however , when she vanished without looking round at me . 
Well , there continued to be plenty of chance for nerve . 
It was precisely the first night during this series that , weary with watching , I had felt that I might again without laxity lay myself down at my old hour . 
I had left a light burning , but it was now out , and I felt an instant certainty that Flora had extinguished it . 
This brought me to my feet and straight , in the darkness , to her bed , which I found she had left . 
A glance at the window enlightened me further , and the striking of a match completed the picture . 
Hidden , protected , absorbed , she evidently rested on the sill the casement opened forward and gave herself up . 
There was a great still moon to help her , and this fact had counted in my quick decision . 
She was face to face with the apparition we had met at the lake , and could now communicate with it as she had not then been able to do . 
What I , on my side , had to care for was , without disturbing her , to reach , from the corridor , some other window in the same quarter . 
I got to the door without her hearing me I got out of it , closed it , and listened , from the other side , for some sound from her . 
I preternaturally listened I figured to myself what might portentously be I wondered if his bed were also empty and he too were secretly at watch . 
It was a deep , soundless minute , at the end of which my impulse failed . 
He was quiet he might be innocent the risk was hideous I turned away . 
There was a figure in the grounds a figure prowling for a sight , the visitor with whom Flora was engaged but it was not the visitor most concerned with my boy . 
I hesitated afresh , but on other grounds and only for a few seconds then I had made my choice . 
There were empty rooms at Bly , and it was only a question of choosing the right one . 
The right one suddenly presented itself to me as the lower one though high above the gardens in the solid corner of the house that I have spoken of as the old tower . 
Then I saw something more . 
The presence on the lawn I felt sick as I made it out was poor little Miles himself . 
I drew a great security in this particular from her mere smooth aspect . 
There was nothing in her fresh face to pass on to others my horrible confidences . 
She believed me , I was sure , absolutely if she hadn't I don't know what would have become of me , for I couldn't have borne the business alone . 
Mrs. Grose watched them with positive placidity then I caught the suppressed intellectual creak with which she conscientiously turned to take from me a view of the back of the tapestry . 
I had made her a receptacle of lurid things , but there was an odd recognition of my superiority my accomplishments and my function in her patience under my pain . 
She offered her mind to my disclosures as , had I wished to mix a witch's broth and proposed it with assurance , she would have held out a large clean saucepan . 
It would tax his invention , certainly , and I felt , this time , over his real embarrassment , a curious thrill of triumph . 
I was confronted at last , as never yet , with all the risk attached even now to sounding my own horrid note . 
I had no alternative but , in form at least , to put it to him . 
You must tell me now and all the truth . 
If I tell you why , will you understand ? My heart , at this , leaped into my mouth . 
WOULD he tell me why ? I found no sound on my lips to press it , and I was aware of replying only with a vague , repeated , grimacing nod . 
He was gentleness itself , and while I wagged my head at him he stood there more than ever a little fairy prince . 
It was his brightness indeed that gave me a respite . 
Would it be so great if he were really going to tell me ? Well , he said at last , just exactly in order that you should do this . 
It was practically the end of everything . 
I met his kiss and I had to make , while I folded him for a minute in my arms , the most stupendous effort not to cry . 
I sat up and read . 
And when did you go down ? At midnight . 
When I'm bad I AM bad ! I see , I see it's charming . 
But how could you be sure I would know it ? Oh , I arranged that with Flora . 
His answers rang out with a readiness ! She was to get up and look out . 
Which is what she did do . 
It was I who fell into the trap ! So she disturbed you , and , to see what she was looking at , you also looked you saw . 
While you , I concurred , caught your death in the night air ! He literally bloomed so from this exploit that he could afford radiantly to assent . 
How otherwise should I have been bad enough ? he asked . 
It all lies in half a dozen words , I said to her , words that really settle the matter . 
'Think , you know , what I MIGHT do ! He threw that off to show me how good he is . 
He knows down to the ground what he might' do . 
That's what he gave them a taste of at school . 
Lord , you do change ! cried my friend . 
I don't change I simply make it out . 
The four , depend upon it , perpetually meet . 
If on either of these last nights you had been with either child , you would clearly have understood . 
The more I've watched and waited the more I've felt that if there were nothing else to make it sure it would be made so by the systematic silence of each . 
NEVER , by a slip of the tongue , have they so much as alluded to either of their old friends , any more than Miles has alluded to his expulsion . 
What I've seen would have made YOU so but it has only made me more lucid , made me get hold of still other things . 
Their more than earthly beauty , their absolutely unnatural goodness . 
They haven't been good they've only been absent . 
It has been easy to live with them , because they're simply leading a life of their own . 
They're not mine they're not ours . 
They're his and they're hers ! Quint's and that woman's ? Quint's and that woman's . 
They want to get to them . 
And to ply them with that evil still , to keep up the work of demons , is what brings the others back . 
Laws ! said my friend under her breath . 
There could have been no such justification for me as the plain assent of her experience to whatever depth of depravity I found credible in our brace of scoundrels . 
It was in obvious submission of memory that she brought out after a moment They WERE rascals ! But what can they now do ? she pursued . 
Do ? I echoed so loud that Miles and Flora , as they passed at their distance , paused an instant in their walk and looked at us . 
Don't they do enough ? I demanded in a lower tone , while the children , having smiled and nodded and kissed hands to us , resumed their exhibition . 
They don't know , as yet , quite how but they're trying hard . 
They've only to keep to their suggestions of danger . 
Their uncle must do the preventing . 
He must take them away . 
And who's to make him ? She had been scanning the distance , but she now dropped on me a foolish face . 
Mrs. Grose considered , following the children again . 
Yes , he do hate worry . 
That was the great reason Why those fiends took him in so long ? No doubt , though his indifference must have been awful . 
As I'm not a fiend , at any rate , I shouldn't take him in . 
My companion , after an instant and for all answer , sat down again and grasped my arm . 
Make him at any rate come to you . 
To ME ? I had a sudden fear of what she might do . 
'Him' ? He ought to BE here he ought to help . 
I quickly rose , and I think I must have shown her a queerer face than ever yet . 
You see me asking him for a visit ? No , with her eyes on my face she evidently couldn't . 
If you should so lose your head as to appeal to him for me She was really frightened . 
Yes , miss ? I would leave , on the spot , both him and you . 
All roads lead to Rome , and there were times when it might have struck us that almost every branch of study or subject of conversation skirted forbidden ground . 
Forbidden ground was the question of the return of the dead in general and of whatever , in especial , might survive , in memory , of the friends little children had lost . 
There were things enough , taking one with another , to chatter about , if one went very fast and knew by instinct when to go round . 
I was invited with no visible connection to repeat afresh Goody Gosling's celebrated mot or to confirm the details already supplied as to the cleverness of the vicarage pony . 
The fact that the days passed for me without another encounter ought , it would have appeared , to have done something toward soothing my nerves . 
The summer had turned , the summer had gone the autumn had dropped upon Bly and had blown out half our lights . 
The place , with its gray sky and withered garlands , its bared spaces and scattered dead leaves , was like a theater after the performance all strewn with crumpled playbills . 
I recognized the signs , the portents I recognized the moment , the spot . 
But they remained unaccompanied and empty , and I continued unmolested if unmolested one could call a young woman whose sensibility had , in the most extraordinary fashion , not declined but deepened . 
I was ready to know the very worst that was to be known . 
What I had then had an ugly glimpse of was that my eyes might be sealed just while theirs were most opened . 
Well , my eyes WERE sealed , it appeared , at present a consummation for which it seemed blasphemous not to thank God . 
I approached it from one side and the other while , in my room , I flung myself about , but I always broke down in the monstrous utterance of names . 
Then it was that the others , the outsiders , were there . 
When do you think he WILL come ? Don't you think we OUGHT to write ? there was nothing like that inquiry , we found by experience , for carrying off an awkwardness . 
He of course was their uncle in Harley Street and we lived in much profusion of theory that he might at any moment arrive to mingle in our circle . 
They were too beautiful to be posted I kept them myself I have them all to this hour . 
This was a rule indeed which only added to the satiric effect of my being plied with the supposition that he might at any moment be among us . 
It was exactly as if my charges knew how almost more awkward than anything else that might be for me . 
I call it relief , though it was only the relief that a snap brings to a strain or the burst of a thunderstorm to a day of suffocation . 
It was at least change , and it came with a rush . 
XIV Walking to church a certain Sunday morning , I had little Miles at my side and his sister , in advance of us and at Mrs. Grose's , well in sight . 
It was an odd accident of thought that I should have happened at such a moment to be particularly and very gratefully struck with the obedience of my little charges . 
I was like a gaoler with an eye to possible surprises and escapes . 
But all this belonged I mean their magnificent little surrender just to the special array of the facts that were most abysmal . 
I was by the strangest of chances wondering how I should meet him when the revolution unmistakably occurred . 
I could feel in him how he already , from my at first finding nothing to reply , perceived the advantage he had gained . 
It was so respectfully easy . 
And always with the same lady ? I returned . 
He neither blanched nor winked . 
The whole thing was virtually out between us . 
Ah , of course , she's a jolly , perfect' lady but , after all , I'm a fellow , don't you see ? that's well , getting on . 
I lingered there with him an instant ever so kindly . 
Yes , you're getting on . 
Oh , but I felt helpless ! I have kept to this day the heartbreaking little idea of how he seemed to know that and to play with it . 
No , I can't say that , Miles . 
Except just that one night , you know ! That one night ? I couldn't look as straight as he . 
Why , when I went down went out of the house . 
But I forget what you did it for . 
You forget ? he spoke with the sweet extravagance of childish reproach . 
Why , it was to show you I could ! Oh , yes , you could . 
I felt that I might , perhaps , after all , succeed in keeping my wits about me . 
No , not THAT again . 
It was nothing , I said . 
But we must go on . 
He resumed our walk with me , passing his hand into my arm . 
Then when AM I going back ? I wore , in turning it over , my most responsible air . 
Were you very happy at school ? He just considered . 
Not half I want to ! Miles honestly professed . 
But it isn't so much that . 
What is it , then ? Well I want to see more life . 
There are not many of your own sort , Miles ! I laughed . 
Unless perhaps dear little Flora ! You really compare me to a baby girl ? This found me singularly weak . 
Mrs. Grose and Flora had passed into the church , the other worshippers had followed , and we were , for the minute , alone among the old , thick graves . 
We had paused , on the path from the gate , by a low , oblong , tablelike tomb . 
Yes , if you didn't ? He looked , while I waited , at the graves . 
Well , you know what ! But he didn't move , and he presently produced something that made me drop straight down on the stone slab , as if suddenly to rest . 
Does my uncle think what YOU think ? I markedly rested . 
How do you know what I think ? Ah , well , of course I don't for it strikes me you never tell me . 
But I mean does HE know ? Know what , Miles ? Why , the way I'm going on . 
I perceived quickly enough that I could make , to this inquiry , no answer that would not involve something of a sacrifice of my employer . 
Yet it appeared to me that we were all , at Bly , sufficiently sacrificed to make that venial . 
I don't think your uncle much cares . 
Miles , on this , stood looking at me . 
Then don't you think he can be made to ? In what way ? Why , by his coming down . 
But who'll get him to come down ? I will ! the boy said with extraordinary brightness and emphasis . 
He gave me another look charged with that expression and then marched off alone into church . 
XV The business was practically settled from the moment I never followed him . 
It was a pitiful surrender to agitation , but my being aware of this had somehow no power to restore me . 
What I said to myself above all was that Miles had got something out of me and that the proof of it , for him , would be just this awkward collapse . 
My fear was of having to deal with the intolerable question of the grounds of his dismissal from school , for that was really but the question of the horrors gathered behind . 
What was so unnatural for the particular boy I was concerned with was this sudden revelation of a consciousness and a plan . 
That was what really overcame me , what prevented my going in . 
I walked round the church , hesitating , hovering I reflected that I had already , with him , hurt myself beyond repair . 
For the first minute since his arrival I wanted to get away from him . 
I might easily put an end to my predicament by getting away altogether . 
Here was my chance there was no one to stop me I could give the whole thing up turn my back and retreat . 
It was only a question of hurrying again , for a few preparations , to the house which the attendance at church of so many of the servants would practically have left unoccupied . 
No one , in short , could blame me if I should just drive desperately off . 
I got , so far as the immediate moment was concerned , away I came straight out of the churchyard and , thinking hard , retraced my steps through the park . 
It seemed to me that by the time I reached the house I had made up my mind I would fly . 
The Sunday stillness both of the approaches and of the interior , in which I met no one , fairly excited me with a sense of opportunity . 
Were I to get off quickly , this way , I should get off without a scene , without a word . 
My quickness would have to be remarkable , however , and the question of a conveyance was the great one to settle . 
But I opened the door to find again , in a flash , my eyes unsealed . 
In the presence of what I saw I reeled straight back upon my resistance . 
Then it was with the very act of its announcing itself that her identity flared up in a change of posture . 
Dishonored and tragic , she was all before me but even as I fixed and , for memory , secured it , the awful image passed away . 
While these instants lasted , indeed , I had the extraordinary chill of feeling that it was I who was the intruder . 
She looked at me as if she heard me , but I had recovered myself and cleared the air . 
There was nothing in the room the next minute but the sunshine and a sense that I must stay . 
Oh , yes , they asked me to say nothing and to please them so long as they were there of course I promised . 
But what had happened to you ? I only went with you for the walk , I said . 
I had then to come back to meet a friend . 
A friend YOU ? Oh , yes , I have a couple ! I laughed . 
But did the children give you a reason ? For not alluding to your leaving us ? Yes they said you would like it better . 
Do you like it better ? My face had made her rueful . 
And what did Flora say ? Miss Flora was too sweet . 
She said , Oh , of course , of course ! and I said the same . 
You were too sweet , too I can hear you all . 
But nonetheless , between Miles and me , it's now all out . 
All out ? My companion stared . 
But what , miss ? Everything . 
I've made up my mind . 
I came home , my dear , I went on , for a talk with Miss Jessel . 
A talk ! Do you mean she spoke ? It came to that . 
I found her , on my return , in the schoolroom . 
And what did she say ? I can hear the good woman still , and the candor of her stupefaction . 
That she suffers the torments ! It was this , of a truth , that made her , as she filled out my picture , gape . 
Do you mean , she faltered , of the lost ? Of the lost . 
And that's why , to share them I faltered myself with the horror of it . 
But my companion , with less imagination , kept me up . 
To share them ? She wants Flora . 
Mrs. Grose might , as I gave it to her , fairly have fallen away from me had I not been prepared . 
I still held her there , to show I was . 
As I've told you , however , it doesn't matter . 
Because you've made up your mind ? But to what ? To everything . 
And what do you call everything' ? Why , sending for their uncle . 
Oh , miss , in pity do , my friend broke out . 
ah , but I will , I WILL ! I see it's the only way . 
What's out , as I told you , with Miles is that if he thinks I'm afraid to and has ideas of what he gains by that he shall see he's mistaken . 
that if I'm to be reproached with having done nothing again about more school Yes , miss my companion pressed me . 
Well , there's that awful reason . 
There were now clearly so many of these for my poor colleague that she was excusable for being vague . 
But a which ? Why , the letter from his old place . 
You'll show it to the master ? I ought to have done so on the instant . 
Oh , no ! said Mrs. Grose with decision . 
After all , I said , it's their uncle's fault . 
If he left here such people ! He didn't really in the least know them . 
She had turned quite pale . 
Well , you shan't suffer , I answered . 
The children shan't ! she emphatically returned . 
I was silent awhile we looked at each other . 
Then what am I to tell him ? You needn't tell him anything . 
Do you mean you'll write ? Remembering she couldn't , I caught myself up . 
How do you communicate ? I tell the bailiff . 
The tears were again in her eyes . 
Ah , miss , YOU write ! Well tonight , I at last answered and on this we separated . 
XVII I went so far , in the evening , as to make a beginning . 
Finally I went out , taking a candle I crossed the passage and listened a minute at Miles's door . 
I say , you there come in . 
It was a gaiety in the gloom ! I went in with my light and found him , in bed , very wide awake , but very much at his ease . 
I stood over him with my candle . 
How did you know I was there ? Why , of course I heard you . 
Did you fancy you made no noise ? You're like a troop of cavalry ! he beautifully laughed . 
Then you weren't asleep ? Not much ! I lie awake and think . 
Well , I think also , you know , of this queer business of ours . 
I marked the coolness of his firm little hand . 
Of what queer business , Miles ? Why , the way you bring me up . 
Certainly you shall go back to school , I said , if it be that that troubles you . 
But not to the old place we must find another , a better . 
But he clearly gained time he waited , he called for guidance . 
No , never from the hour you came back . 
You've never mentioned to me one of your masters , one of your comrades , nor the least little thing that ever happened to you at school . 
Never , little Miles no , never have you given me an inkling of anything that MAY have happened there . 
Therefore you can fancy how much I'm in the dark . 
Until you came out , that way , this morning , you had , since the first hour I saw you , scarce even made a reference to anything in your previous life . 
You seemed so perfectly to accept the present . 
made him , in spite of the faint breath of his inward trouble , appear as accessible as an older person imposed him almost as an intellectual equal . 
I thought you wanted to go on as you are . 
It struck me that at this he just faintly colored . 
He gave , at any rate , like a convalescent slightly fatigued , a languid shake of his head . 
I want to get away . 
You're tired of Bly ? Oh , no , I like Bly . 
Well , then ? Oh , YOU know what a boy wants ! I felt that I didn't know so well as Miles , and I took temporary refuge . 
You want to go to your uncle ? Again , at this , with his sweet ironic face , he made a movement on the pillow . 
Ah , you can't get off with that ! I was silent a little , and it was I , now , I think , who changed color . 
My dear , I don't want to get off ! You can't , even if you do . 
You can't , you can't ! he lay beautifully staring . 
My uncle must come down , and you must completely settle things . 
If we do , I returned with some spirit , you may be sure it will be to take you quite away . 
And how much will YOU , Miles , have to tell him ? There are things he'll ask you ! He turned it over . 
But what things ? The things you've never told me . 
To make up his mind what to do with you . 
He can't send you back Oh , I don't want to go back ! he broke in . 
I want a new field . 
It overwhelmed me now that I should never be able to bear that , and it made me let myself go . 
I threw myself upon him and in the tenderness of my pity I embraced him . 
Dear little Miles , dear little Miles ! My face was close to his , and he let me kiss him , simply taking it with indulgent good humor . 
I've told you I told you this morning . 
There was even a singular little dignity in it , something that made me release him , yet , when I had slowly risen , linger beside him . 
I've just begun a letter to your uncle , I said . 
Well , then , finish it ! I waited a minute . 
What happened before ? He gazed up at me again . 
Before what ? Before you came back . 
And before you went away . 
For some time he was silent , but he continued to meet my eyes . 
I jumped to my feet again and was conscious of darkness . 
So for a moment we remained , while I stared about me and saw that the drawn curtains were unstirred and the window tight . 
Why , the candle's out ! I then cried . 
It was I who blew it , dear ! said Miles . 
XVIII The next day , after lessons , Mrs. Grose found a moment to say to me quietly Have you written , miss ? Yes I've written . 
But I didn't add for the hour that my letter , sealed and directed , was still in my pocket . 
There would be time enough to send it before the messenger should go to the village . 
Meanwhile there had been , on the part of my pupils , no more brilliant , more exemplary morning . 
It was exactly as if they had both had at heart to gloss over any recent little friction . 
They performed the dizziest feats of arithmetic , soaring quite out of MY feeble range , and perpetrated , in higher spirits than ever , geographical and historical jokes . 
It was conspicuous of course in Miles in particular that he appeared to wish to show how easily he could let me down . 
David playing to Saul could never have shown a finer sense of the occasion . 
It was literally a charming exhibition of tact , of magnanimity , and quite tantamount to his saying outright The true knights we love to read about never push an advantage too far . 
Well , I come , you see but I don't go ! There'll be plenty of time for that . 
I do really delight in your society , and I only want to show you that I contended for a principle . 
It may be imagined whether I resisted this appeal or failed to accompany him again , hand in hand , to the schoolroom . 
For at the end of a time that under his influence I had quite ceased to measure , I started up with a strange sense of having literally slept at my post . 
It was after luncheon , and by the schoolroom fire , and yet I hadn't really , in the least , slept I had only done something much worse I had forgotten . 
I went straight to my room , but his sister was not there then , before going downstairs , I looked into several others . 
As she was nowhere about she would surely be with Mrs. Grose , whom , in the comfort of that theory , I accordingly proceeded in quest of . 
I found her where I had found her the evening before , but she met my quick challenge with blank , scared ignorance . 
Of course now indeed she might be with the maids , so that the immediate thing was to look for her without an air of alarm . 
She'll be above , she presently said in one of the rooms you haven't searched . 
No she's at a distance . 
I had made up my mind . 
Without a hat ? I naturally also looked volumes . 
Isn't that woman always without one ? She's with HER ? She's with HER ! I declared . 
My hand was on my friend's arm , but she failed for the moment , confronted with such an account of the matter , to respond to my pressure . 
She communed , on the contrary , on the spot , with her uneasiness . 
And where's Master Miles ? Oh , HE'S with Quint . 
Lord , miss ! My view , I was myself aware and therefore I suppose my tone had never yet reached so calm an assurance . 
The trick's played , I went on they've successfully worked their plan . 
He found the most divine little way to keep me quiet while she went off . 
'Divine' ? Mrs. Grose bewilderedly echoed . 
Infernal , then ! I almost cheerfully rejoined . 
He has provided for himself as well . 
But come ! She had helplessly gloomed at the upper regions . 
You leave him ? So long with Quint ? Yes I don't mind that now . 
She always ended , at these moments , by getting possession of my hand , and in this manner she could at present still stay me . 
But after gasping an instant at my sudden resignation , Because of your letter ? she eagerly brought out . 
Luke will take it , I said as I came back . 
I reached the house door and opened it I was already on the steps . 
My companion still demurred the storm of the night and the early morning had dropped , but the afternoon was damp and gray . 
I came down to the drive while she stood in the doorway . 
Try meanwhile , yourself , upstairs . 
The usual place of embarkation was half a mile from the house , but I had an intimate conviction that , wherever Flora might be , she was not near home . 
You're going to the water , Miss ? you think she's IN ? She may be , though the depth is , I believe , nowhere very great . 
But what I judge most likely is that she's on the spot from which , the other day , we saw together what I told you . 
When she pretended not to see ? With that astounding self possession ? I've always been sure she wanted to go back alone . 
And now her brother has managed it for her . 
Mrs. Grose still stood where she had stopped . 
You suppose they really TALK of them ? I could meet this with a confidence ! They say things that , if we heard them , would simply appall us . 
And if she IS there Yes ? Then Miss Jessel is ? Beyond a doubt . 
Oh , thank you ! my friend cried , planted so firm that , taking it in , I went straight on without her . 
She exhaled a moan of relief as we at last came in sight of the greater part of the water without a sight of the child . 
We looked at the empty expanse , and then I felt the suggestion of my friend's eyes . 
I knew what she meant and I replied with a negative headshake . 
No , no wait ! She has taken the boat . 
My companion stared at the vacant mooring place and then again across the lake . 
Then where is it ? Our not seeing it is the strongest of proofs . 
She has used it to go over , and then has managed to hide it . 
All alone that child ? She's not alone , and at such times she's not a child she's an old , old woman . 
But if the boat's there , where on earth's SHE ? my colleague anxiously asked . 
That's exactly what we must learn . 
And I started to walk further . 
By going all the way round ? Certainly , far as it is . 
It will take us but ten minutes , but it's far enough to have made the child prefer not to walk . 
Laws ! cried my friend again the chain of my logic was ever too much for her . 
There was a gate in the fence , through which we passed , and that brought us , after a trifling interval , more into the open . 
Then , There she is ! we both exclaimed at once . 
Flora , a short way off , stood before us on the grass and smiled as if her performance was now complete . 
The next thing she did , however , was to stoop straight down and pluck quite as if it were all she was there for a big , ugly spray of withered fern . 
I instantly became sure she had just come out of the copse . 
She waited for us , not herself taking a step , and I was conscious of the rare solemnity with which we presently approached her . 
She smiled and smiled , and we met but it was all done in a silence by this time flagrantly ominous . 
While this dumb convulsion lasted I could only watch it which I did the more intently when I saw Flora's face peep at me over our companion's shoulder . 
It was serious now the flicker had left it but it strengthened the pang with which I at that moment envied Mrs. Grose the simplicity of HER relation . 
Still , all this while , nothing more passed between us save that Flora had let her foolish fern again drop to the ground . 
What she and I had virtually said to each other was that pretexts were useless now . 
I'll be hanged , it said , if I 'll speak ! It was Flora who , gazing all over me in candid wonder , was the first . 
She was struck with our bareheaded aspect . 
Why , where are your things ? Where yours are , my dear ! I promptly returned . 
She had already got back her gaiety , and appeared to take this as an answer quite sufficient . 
And where's Miles ? she went on . 
I'll tell you if you'll tell ME I heard myself say , then heard the tremor in which it broke . 
Well , what ? Mrs. Grose's suspense blazed at me , but it was too late now , and I brought the thing out handsomely . 
Where , my pet , is Miss Jessel ? XX Just as in the churchyard with Miles , the whole thing was upon us . 
I seized my colleague's arm . 
She was there , and I was justified she was there , and I was neither cruel nor mad . 
I quailed even though my certitude that she thoroughly saw was never greater than at that instant , and in the immediate need to defend myself I called it passionately to witness . 
My elder companion , the next moment , at any rate , blotted out everything but her own flushed face and her loud , shocked protest , a burst of high disapproval . 
Into this attitude Mrs. Grose immediately and violently entered , breaking , even while there pierced through my sense of ruin a prodigious private triumph , into breathless reassurance . 
I've said it already she was literally , she was hideously , hard she had turned common and almost ugly . 
I don't know what you mean . 
In this position she produced an almost furious wail . 
Take me away , take me away oh , take me away from HER ! From ME ? I panted . 
From you from you ! she cried . 
If I had ever doubted , all my doubt would at present have gone . 
I've been living with the miserable truth , and now it has only too much closed round me . 
I've done my best , but I've lost you . 
Of what first happened when I was left alone I had no subsequent memory . 
I must have lain there long and cried and sobbed , for when I raised my head the day was almost done . 
She passed that night , by the most tacit , and I should add , were not the word so grotesque a false note , the happiest of arrangements , with Mrs. Grose . 
I saw neither of them on my return , but , on the other hand , as by an ambiguous compensation , I saw a great deal of Miles . 
I saw I can use no other phrase so much of him that it was as if it were more than it had ever been . 
Her little belongings had all been removed . 
When later , by the schoolroom fire , I was served with tea by the usual maid , I indulged , on the article of my other pupil , in no inquiry whatever . 
So , when he appeared , I was sitting in the glow with my thoughts . 
He paused a moment by the door as if to look at me then as if to share them came to the other side of the hearth and sank into a chair . 
We sat there in absolute stillness yet he wanted , I felt , to be with me . 
XXI Before a new day , in my room , had fully broken , my eyes opened to Mrs. Grose , who had come to my bedside with worse news . 
It was not against the possible re entrance of Miss Jessel on the scene that she protested it was conspicuously and passionately against mine . 
I was promptly on my feet of course , and with an immense deal to ask the more that my friend had discernibly now girded her loins to meet me once more . 
This I felt as soon as I had put to her the question of her sense of the child's sincerity as against my own . 
She persists in denying to you that she saw , or has ever seen , anything ? My visitor's trouble , truly , was great . 
Ah , miss , it isn't a matter on which I can push her ! Yet it isn't either , I must say , as if I much needed to . 
It has made her , every inch of her , quite old . 
Oh , I see her perfectly from here . 
She resents , for all the world like some high little personage , the imputation on her truthfulness and , as it were , her respectability . 
I DID put my foot in it ! She'll never speak to me again . 
Hideous and obscure as it all was , it held Mrs. Grose briefly silent then she granted my point with a frankness which , I made sure , had more behind it . 
I think indeed , miss , she never will . 
I , too , on my side , had so much more than worked it out . 
Has she said to you since yesterday except to repudiate her familiarity with anything so dreadful a single other word about Miss Jessel ? Not one , miss . 
And of course you know , my friend added , I took it from her , by the lake , that , just then and there at least , there WAS nobody . 
Rather ! and , naturally , you take it from her still . 
What else can I do ? Nothing in the world ! You've the cleverest little person to deal with . 
Yes , miss but to WHAT end ? Why , that of dealing with me to her uncle . 
And him who thinks so well of you ! He has an odd way it comes over me now , I laughed , of proving it ! But that doesn't matter . 
What Flora wants , of course , is to get rid of me . 
Never again to so much as look at you . 
I've a better idea the result of my reflections . 
My going WOULD seem the right thing , and on Sunday I was terribly near it . 
It's YOU who must go . 
My visitor , at this , did speculate . 
But where in the world ? Away from here . 
Away , even most of all , now , from me . 
Only to tell on you ? No , not only' ! To leave me , in addition , with my remedy . 
And what IS your remedy ? Your loyalty , to begin with . 
She looked at me hard . 
Do you think he ? Won't , if he has the chance , turn on me ? Yes , I venture still to think it . 
At all events , I want to try . 
Get off with his sister as soon as possible and leave me with him alone . 
There's one thing , of course , I went on they mustn't , before she goes , see each other for three seconds . 
Then it came over me that , in spite of Flora's presumable sequestration from the instant of her return from the pool , it might already be too late . 
Do you mean , I anxiously asked , that they HAVE met ? At this she quite flushed . 
And yet and yet ! There were too many things . 
And yet what ? Well , are you so sure of the little gentleman ? I'm not sure of anything but YOU . 
But I have , since last evening , a new hope . 
I think he wants to give me an opening . 
I do believe that poor little exquisite wretch ! he wants to speak . 
Last evening , in the firelight and the silence , he sat with me for two hours as if it were just coming . 
Mrs. Grose looked hard , through the window , at the gray , gathering day . 
My friend appeared on this ground more reluctant than I could quite understand . 
What do you mean by more time ? Well , a day or two really to bring it out . 
He'll then be on MY side of which you see the importance . 
So I put it before her , but she continued for a little so inscrutably embarrassed that I came again to her aid . 
Unless , indeed , I wound up , you really want NOT to go . 
I could see it , in her face , at last clear itself she put out her hand to me as a pledge . 
I wanted to be very just . 
If you SHOULD wish still to wait , I would engage she shouldn't see me . 
No , no it's the place itself . 
She held me a moment with heavy eyes , then brought out the rest . 
Your idea's the right one . 
I myself , miss Well ? I can't stay . 
The look she gave me with it made me jump at possibilities . 
You mean that , since yesterday , you HAVE seen ? She shook her head with dignity . 
I've HEARD ! Heard ? From that child horrors ! There ! she sighed with tragic relief . 
It was quite in another manner that I , for my part , let myself go . 
Oh , thank God ! She sprang up again at this , drying her eyes with a groan . 
'Thank God' ? It so justifies me ! It does that , miss ! I couldn't have desired more emphasis , but I just hesitated . 
She's so horrible ? I saw my colleague scarce knew how to put it . 
And about me ? About you , miss since you must have it . 
It only , in truth , left my friend still more grave . 
But I must go back . 
I kept her , however . 
Ah , if you can't bear it ! How can I stop with her , you mean ? Why , just FOR that to get her away . 
Far from this , she pursued , far from THEM She may be different ? She may be free ? I seized her almost with joy . 
Yes , it was a joy , and we were still shoulder to shoulder if I might continue sure of that I should care but little what else happened . 
On the point of taking leave of her , nonetheless , I was to some extent embarrassed . 
There's one thing , of course it occurs to me to remember . 
My letter , giving the alarm , will have reached town before you . 
I now perceived still more how she had been beating about the bush and how weary at last it had made her . 
Your letter won't have got there . 
What then became of it ? Goodness knows ! Master Miles Do you mean HE took it ? I gasped . 
She hung fire , but she overcame her reluctance . 
I mean that I saw yesterday , when I came back with Miss Flora , that it wasn't where you had put it . 
Later in the evening I had the chance to question Luke , and he declared that he had neither noticed nor touched it . 
And don't you see anything else ? I faced her a moment with a sad smile . 
It strikes me that by this time your eyes are open even wider than mine . 
They proved to be so indeed , but she could still blush , almost , to show it . 
I make out now what he must have done at school . 
And she gave , in her simple sharpness , an almost droll disillusioned nod . 
He stole ! I turned it over I tried to be more judicial . 
She looked as if she found me unexpectedly calm . 
He stole LETTERS ! She couldn't know my reasons for a calmness after all pretty shallow so I showed them off as I might . 
I seemed to myself , for the instant , to have mastered it , to see it all . 
Leave us , leave us I was already , at the door , hurrying her off . 
I'll get it out of him . 
He'll meet me he'll confess . 
If he confesses , he's saved . 
And if he's saved Then YOU are ? The dear woman kissed me on this , and I took her farewell . 
I'll save you without him ! she cried as she went . 
XXII Yet it was when she had got off and I missed her on the spot that the great pinch really came . 
If I had counted on what it would give me to find myself alone with Miles , I speedily perceived , at least , that it would give me a measure . 
What had happened naturally caused them all to stare there was too little of the explained , throw out whatever we might , in the suddenness of my colleague's act . 
The maids and the men looked blank the effect of which on my nerves was an aggravation until I saw the necessity of making it a positive aid . 
I wandered with that manner , for the next hour or two , all over the place and looked , I have no doubt , as if I were ready for any onset . 
So , for the benefit of whom it might concern , I paraded with a sick heart . 
The person it appeared least to concern proved to be , till dinner , little Miles himself . 
I had too much , from this moment , my other ideas . 
No attempt , nonetheless , could well require more tact than just this attempt to supply , one's self , ALL the nature . 
It was indeed as if he had found even now as he had so often found at lessons still some other delicate way to ease me off . 
The roast mutton was on the table , and I had dispensed with attendance . 
But what he presently produced was I say , my dear , is she really very awfully ill ? Little Flora ? Not so bad but that she'll presently be better . 
London will set her up . 
Bly had ceased to agree with her . 
Come here and take your mutton . 
He alertly obeyed me , carried the plate carefully to his seat , and , when he was established , went on . 
Did Bly disagree with her so terribly suddenly ? Not so suddenly as you might think . 
One had seen it coming on . 
Then why didn't you get her off before ? Before what ? Before she became too ill to travel . 
She's NOT too ill to travel she only might have become so if she had stayed . 
This was just the moment to seize . 
The journey will dissipate the influence oh , I was grand ! and carry it off . 
I see , I see Miles , for that matter , was grand , too . 
He settled to his repast with the charming little table manner that , from the day of his arrival , had relieved me of all grossness of admonition . 
Whatever he had been driven from school for , it was not for ugly feeding . 
He was irreproachable , as always , today but he was unmistakably more conscious . 
He was discernibly trying to take for granted more things than he found , without assistance , quite easy and he dropped into peaceful silence while he felt his situation . 
Our meal was of the briefest mine a vain pretense , and I had the things immediately removed . 
He turned round only when the waiter had left us . 
Well so we're alone ! XXIII Oh , more or less . 
I fancy my smile was pale . 
We shouldn't like that ! I went on . 
No I suppose we shouldn't . 
Of course we have the others . 
We have the others we have indeed the others , I concurred . 
He remained there awhile , with his forehead against the glass , in contemplation of the stupid shrubs I knew and the dull things of November . 
I had always my hypocrisy of work , behind which , now , I gained the sofa . 
But an extraordinary impression dropped on me as I extracted a meaning from the boy's embarrassed back none other than the impression that I was not barred now . 
This inference grew in a few minutes to sharp intensity and seemed bound up with the direct perception that it was positively HE who was . 
The frames and squares of the great window were a kind of image , for him , of a kind of failure . 
I felt that I saw him , at any rate , shut in or shut out . 
He was admirable , but not comfortable I took it in with a throb of hope . 
When he at last turned round to meet me , it was almost as if this genius had succumbed . 
I hope , I went on bravely , that you've been enjoying yourself . 
Oh , yes , I've been ever so far all round about miles and miles away . 
I've never been so free . 
He had really a manner of his own , and I could only try to keep up with him . 
Well , do you like it ? He stood there smiling then at last he put into two words Do YOU ? more discrimination than I had ever heard two words contain . 
Before I had time to deal with that , however , he continued as if with the sense that this was an impertinence to be softened . 
Nothing could be more charming than the way you take it , for of course if we're alone together now it's you that are alone most . 
But I hope , he threw in , you don't particularly mind ! Having to do with you ? I asked . 
My dear child , how can I help minding ? Though I've renounced all claim to your company you're so beyond me I at least greatly enjoy it . 
You stay on just for THAT ? Certainly . 
I stay on as your friend and from the tremendous interest I take in you till something can be done for you that may be more worth your while . 
My voice trembled so that I felt it impossible to suppress the shake . 
Only that , I think , was to get me to do something for YOU ! It was partly to get you to do something , I conceded . 
But , you know , you didn't do it . 
Oh , yes , he said with the brightest superficial eagerness , you wanted me to tell you something . 
What you have on your mind , you know . 
It was as if what I had yearned for had come at last only to astonish me . 
Well , yes I may as well make a clean breast of it . 
it was precisely for that . 
He looked round him uneasily , and I had the rare oh , the queer ! impression of the very first symptom I had seen in him of the approach of immediate fear . 
It was as if he were suddenly afraid of me which struck me indeed as perhaps the best thing to make him . 
Yet in the very pang of the effort I felt it vain to try sternness , and I heard myself the next instant so gentle as to be almost grotesque . 
You want so to go out again ? Awfully ! He smiled at me heroically , and the touching little bravery of it was enhanced by his actually flushing with pain . 
So we circled about , with terrors and scruples , like fighters not daring to close . 
But it was for each other we feared ! That kept us a little longer suspended and unbruised . 
I'll tell you everything , Miles said I mean I'll tell you anything you like . 
You'll stay on with me , and we shall both be all right , and I WILL tell you I WILL . 
Then he was before me again with the air of a person for whom , outside , someone who had frankly to be reckoned with was waiting . 
I have to see Luke . 
I had not yet reduced him to quite so vulgar a lie , and I felt proportionately ashamed . 
But , horrible as it was , his lies made up my truth . 
I achieved thoughtfully a few loops of my knitting . 
Well , then , go to Luke , and I'll wait for what you promise . 
Only , in return for that , satisfy , before you leave me , one very much smaller request . 
He looked as if he felt he had succeeded enough to be able still a little to bargain . 
Very much smaller ? Yes , a mere fraction of the whole . 
The appearance was full upon us that I had already had to deal with here Peter Quint had come into view like a sentinel before a prison . 
It came to me in the very horror of the immediate presence that the act would be , seeing and facing what I saw and faced , to keep the boy himself unaware . 
The inspiration I can call it by no other name was that I felt how voluntarily , how transcendently , I MIGHT . 
I have likened it to a sentinel , but its slow wheel , for a moment , was rather the prowl of a baffled beast . 
My present quickened courage , however , was such that , not too much to let it through , I had to shade , as it were , my flame . 
Meanwhile the glare of the face was again at the window , the scoundrel fixed as if to watch and wait . 
It was the very confidence that I might now defy him , as well as the positive certitude , by this time , of the child's unconsciousness , that made me go on . 
What did you take it for ? To see what you said about me . 
You opened the letter ? I opened it . 
I felt that the cause was mine and that I should surely get ALL . 
And you found nothing ! I let my elation out . 
He gave the most mournful , thoughtful little headshake . 
Nothing , nothing ! I almost shouted in my joy . 
Nothing , nothing , he sadly repeated . 
I kissed his forehead it was drenched . 
So what have you done with it ? I've burned it . 
Burned it ? It was now or never . 
Yet it did reach him . 
Was it for that you mightn't go back ? The only thing he felt was rather a dreary little surprise . 
Did you know I mightn't go back ? I know everything . 
He gave me at this the longest and strangest look . 
Therefore DID you ? But I couldn't say it again . 
Miles could , very simply . 
What then did you do ? He looked in vague pain all round the top of the room and drew his breath , two or three times over , as if with difficulty . 
He might have been standing at the bottom of the sea and raising his eyes to some faint green twilight . 
Well , I suppose I oughtn't . 
But to whom did you say them ? He evidently tried to remember , but it dropped he had lost it . 
But I was infatuated I was blind with victory , though even then the very effect that was to have brought him so much nearer was already that of added separation . 
Was it to everyone ? I asked . 
No it was only to But he gave a sick little headshake . 
I don't remember their names . 
Were they then so many ? No only a few . 
And did they repeat what you said ? I went on after a moment . 
He was soon at some distance from me , still breathing hard and again with the air , though now without anger for it , of being confined against his will . 
Once more , as he had done before , he looked up at the dim day as if , of what had hitherto sustained him , nothing was left but an unspeakable anxiety . 
Oh , yes , he nevertheless replied they must have repeated them . 
To those THEY liked , he added . 
There was , somehow , less of it than I had expected but I turned it over . 
And these things came round ? To the masters ? Oh , yes ! he answered very simply . 
But I didn't know they'd tell . 
The masters ? They didn't they've never told . 
That's why I ask you . 
He turned to me again his little beautiful fevered face . 
Yes , it was too bad . 
Too bad ? What I suppose I sometimes said . 
For there again , against the glass , as if to blight his confession and stay his answer , was the hideous author of our woe the white face of damnation . 
I felt a sick swim at the drop of my victory and all the return of my battle , so that the wildness of my veritable leap only served as a great betrayal . 
No more , no more , no more ! I shrieked , as I tried to press him against me , to my visitant . 
Is she HERE ? Miles panted as he caught with his sealed eyes the direction of my words . 
Then as his strange she staggered me and , with a gasp , I echoed it , Miss Jessel , Miss Jessel ! he with a sudden fury gave me back . 
I seized , stupefied , his supposition some sequel to what we had done to Flora , but this made me only want to show him that it was better still than that . 
It's not Miss Jessel ! But it's at the window straight before us . 
It's HE ? I was so determined to have all my proof that I flashed into ice to challenge him . 
Whom do you mean by he' ? Peter Quint you devil ! His face gave again , round the room , its convulsed supplication . 
WHERE ? They are in my ears still , his supreme surrender of the name and his tribute to my devotion . 
But he had already jerked straight round , stared , glared again , and seen but the quiet day . 
We were alone with the quiet day , and his little heart , dispossessed , had stopped . 
