Scanned by Charles Keller for Tina with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
com TWILIGHT STORIES BY MARGARET SYDNEY , SUSAN COOLIDGE , JOAQUIN MILLER , AUTHOR OF JOHN HALIFAX , GENTLEMAN , MRS . 
AMY THERESE POWELSON , Etc . 
We went to the show one night , And it certainly was a great sight , This tiger to see , Fierce as he could be , And roaring with all his might . 
THE ONLY WOMAN IN THE TOWN . 
One hundred years' and one ago , in Boston , at ten of the clock one April night , a church steeple had been climbed and a lantern hung out . 
At mid night , a hundred ears had heard the flying horseman cry , Up and arm . 
The Regulars are coming out ! You know the story well . 
There is one thing about that day that you have NOT heard and I will tell you now . 
It is , how one little woman staid in the town of Concord , whence all the women save her had fled . 
Just who Uncle John was , is not now known , but he was probably Martha Moulton's uncle . 
The uncle , it appears by record , was eighty five years old while the niece was ONLY three score and eleven . 
Whew ! Mother Moulton , what are you doing ? I'm getting Uncle John his breakfast to be sure , Joe , she answered . 
Hungry Joe had been astir since the first drum had beat to arms at two of the clock . 
So they tell me , she said , serenely . 
I won't believe a word of it , she said , stoutly , until I see the soldiers coming . 
Ah ! Hear that ! cried Joe , tossing back his hair and swinging his arms triumphantly at an airy foe . 
You won't have to wait long . 
THAT SIGNAL is for the minute men . 
They are going to march out to meet the Red coats . 
Wish I was a minute man , this minute . 
Meanwhile , poor Uncle John was getting down the steps of the stairway , with many a grimace and groan . 
, I'd make 'em quiet long enough to let an old man get a wink of sleep , when the rheumatism lets go . 
I'm real sorry for you , said Joe , but you don't know the news . 
The king's troops , from camp , in Boston , are marching right down here , to carry off all our arms that they can find . 
Are they ? was the sarcastic rejoined . 
It's the best news I've heard in a long while . 
Wish they had my arms , this minute . 
They wouldn't carry them a step farther than they could help , I know . 
Run and tell them mine are ready , Joe . 
I know a first rate place up in the woods . 
Used to be a honey tree , you know , and it's just as hollow as anything . 
Presently he rushed back to the house with cheeks aflame and eyes ablaze with excitement . 
They're a coming ! he cried . 
They're in sight down by the rocks . 
What in the world shall I do with them , she cried , returning with her apron well filled with treasures , and borne down by the weight thereof . 
Give 'em to me , cried Joe . 
Here's a basket , drop 'em in , and I'll run like a brush fire through the town and across the old bridge , and hide 'em as safe as a weasel's nap . 
No ! No ! she replied , to his repeated offers . 
I know what I'll do . 
You , Joe Devins , stay right where you are till I come back , and , don't you ever LOOK out of the window . 
Dear , dear me ! she cried , flushed and anxious when she was out of sight of Uncle John and Joe . 
I WISH I'd given 'em to Col . 
Barrett when he was here before daylight , only , I WAS afraid I should never get sight of them again . 
Of course , they EXPECT to find things in wells ! Why didn't you tell me before , Joe ? but now it is too late . 
I would , if I'd known what you was going to do they'd been a sight safer , in the honey tree . 
Everybody will know , if you do , there . 
Martha ! Martha ? shrieked Uncle John's quavering voice from the house door . 
Bless my heart ! she exclaimed , hurrying back over the stones . 
What's the matter with your heart ? questioned Joe . 
I was thinking of Uncle John's money , she answered . 
Has he got money ? cried Joe . 
I thought he was poor , and you took care of him because you were so good Not one word that Joe uttered did the little woman hear . 
She was already by Uncle John's side and asking him for the key to his strong box . 
Uncle John's rheumatism was terribly exasperating . 
No , I won't give it to you ! he cried , and nobody shall have it as long as I'm above ground . 
Then the soldiers will carry it off , she said . 
Let 'em ! was his reply , grasping his staff firmly with both hands and gleaming defiance out of his wide , pale eyes . 
YOU won't get the key , even if they do . 
The idea of being taken prisoner in such a manner , and by a woman , too , was too much for the lad's endurance . 
Let me go ! he cried , the instant he could recover his breath . 
I won't hide away in your garret , like a woman , I won't . 
I want to see the militia and the minute men fight the troops , I do . 
Help me first , Joe . 
Here , quick now let's get this box out and up garret . 
We'll hide it under the corn and it'll be safe , she coaxed . 
The box was under Uncle John's bed . 
What's in the old thing any how ? questioned Joe , pulling with all his strength at it . 
The box , or chest , was painted red , and was bound about by massive iron bands . 
I've never seen the inside of it , said Mother Moulton . 
It holds the poor old soul's sole treasure , and I DO want to save it for him if I can . 
They had drawn it with much hard endeavor , as far as the garret stairs , but their united strength failed to lift it . 
Heave it , now ! cried Joe , and lo ! it was up two steps . 
In the very midst of the overturnings , a voice from below had been heard crying out , Let my box alone ! Don't break it open . 
Now , Joe , she said . 
Then he sprang to the high up window ledge in the point of the roof and took one glance out . 
Oh , I see them , the Red coats . 
True's I live , there go the militia UP THE HILL . 
I thought they was going to stand and defend . 
Shame on 'em , I say . 
What did you help her for , you scamp , he demanded of Joe , flourishing his staff unpleasantly near the lad's head . 
'Cause she asked me to , and couldn't do it alone , returned Joe , dodging the stick and disappearing from the scene , at the very moment Martha Moulton encountered Uncle John . 
Once there , she paused a second or two to take resolution regarding her next act . 
She knew full well that there was not one second to spare , and yet she stood looking , apparently , into the glowing embers on the hearth . 
She was flushed and excited , both by the unwonted toil , and the coming events . 
Cobwebs from the rafters had fallen on her hair and home spun dress , and would readily have betrayed her late occupation , to any discerning soldier of the king . 
A smile broke suddenly over her face , displacing for a brief second every trace of care . 
It's my only weapon , and I must use it , she said , making a stately courtesy to an imaginary guest and straightway disappeared within an adjoining room . 
With buttoned door and dropped curtains the little woman made haste to array herself in her finest raiment . 
In five minutes she reappeared in the kitchen , a picture pleasant to look at . 
In all New England , there could not be a more beautiful little old lady than Martha Moulton was that day . 
Once more Joe Devins looked in . 
I'd go and hide behind the nubbins . 
They'll be here in less than five minutes now , he cried , and I'm going over the North Bridge to see what's going on there . 
She threw a few sticks of hickory wood on the embers , and then drew out the little round stand , on which the family Bible was always lying . 
Recollecting that the British soldiers probably belonged to the Church of England , she hurried away to fetch Uncle John's prayer book . 
They'll have respect to me , if they find me reading that , I know , she thought . 
Having drawn the round stand within sight of the well , and where she could also command a view of the staircase , she sat and waited for coming events . 
Uncle John was keeping watch of the advancing troops from an upper window . 
Martha , he called , you'd better come up . 
They're close by , now . 
The rap of a musket , quick and ringing on the front door , startled the little woman from her apparent devotions . 
She did not move at the call of anything so profane . 
It was the custom of the time to have the front door divided into two parts , the lower half and the upper half . 
The former was closed and made fast , the upper could be swung open at will . 
The soldier getting no reply , and doubtless thinking that the house was deserted , leaped over the chained lower half of the door . 
Good , sound English metal , too , she thought , that an English soldier ought to know how to respect . 
As she heard the tramp of coming feet she only bent the closer over the Book of Prayer that lay open on her knee . 
Not one word did she read or see she was inwardly trembling and outwardly watching the well and the staircase . 
As the King's troops , Major Pitcairn at their head , reached the open door and saw the old lady , they paused . 
Good morning , Mother , said Major Pitcairn , raising his hat . 
Good morning , gentlemen and soldiers , returned Martha Moulton . 
You will pardon my not meeting you at the door , when you see that I was occupied in rendering service to the Lord of all . 
She reverently closed the book , laid it on the table , and arose , with a stately bearing , to demand their wishes . 
We're hungry , good woman , spoke the commander , and your hearth is the only hospitable one we've seen since we left Boston . 
With your good leave I'll take a bit of this , and he stooped to lift up the Johnny cake that had been all this while on the hearth . 
Advancing toward the staircase with bold and soldierly front , Major Pitcairn said to Uncle John Stand aside , old man , and we'll hold you harmless . 
There ! she said , he is safe out of mischief for awhile , and your heads are safe as well . 
Pardon a poor old man , who does not know what he is about . 
He seems to know remarkably well , exclaimed an officer . 
Meanwhile , behind the strong door , Uncle John's wrath knew no bounds . 
In his frantic endeavors to burst the fastenings of the wooden buttons , rheumatic cramps seized him and carried the day , leaving him out of the battle . 
Meanwhile , a portion of the soldiery clustered about the door . 
, to draw all the water that was taken from that well . 
A remnant of witchcraft ! remarked a soldier within hearing . 
Do I look like a witch ? she demanded . 
If you do , replied Major Pitcairn , I admire New England witches , and never would condemn one to be hung , or burned , or smothered . 
Martha Moulton never wore so brilliant a color on her aged cheeks as at that moment . 
During this time the cold , frosty morning spent itself into the brilliant , shining noon . 
You know what happened at Concord on that th of April in the year . 
Everything's lost ! Major Pitcairn , at that moment , was on the green in front of her door , giving orders . 
The town house is on fire ! she cried , laying her hand upon the commander's arm . 
He turned and looked at her . 
Already flames were issuing from it . 
Go in the house and let it burn , INDEED ! thought she . 
He knows me , don't he ? Oh , sir ! for the love of Heaven won't you stop it ? she said , entreatingly . 
Run in the house , good mother . 
That is a wise woman , he advised . 
He turned and looked at her . 
Poor little woman ! What could she do ? The wind was rising , and the fire grew . 
Flame was creeping out in a little blue curl in a new place , under the rafter's edge , AND NOBODY CARED . 
That was what increased the pressing misery of it all . 
Until that moment the little woman did not know how utterly deserted she was . 
Thus equipped with facts and feeling , she once more appeared to Major Pitcairn . 
Have you a mother in old England ? she cried . 
If so , for her sake , stop this fire . 
Her words touched his heart . 
And if I do ? he answered . 
THEN YOUR JOHNNY CAKE ON MY HEARTH WON'T BURN UP , she said , with a quick little smile , adjusting her cap . 
Major Pitcairn laughed , and two soldiers , at his command , seized the pails and made haste to the court house , followed by many more . 
For awhile the fire seemed victorious , but , by brave effort , it was finally overcome , and the court house saved . 
After the fire was extinguished , he thought of Martha Moulton , and he could not help feeling a bit guilty at the consciousness that he had gone off and left her alone . 
Going to the house he found her entertaining the king's troopers with the best food her humble store afforded . 
It was , lest Joe Devins should spoil it all by ill timed words . 
She made haste to meet him , basket in hand . 
Here , Joe , she said , fetch me some small wood , there's a good boy . 
As she gave him the basket she was just in time to stop the rejoinder that was issuing from his lips . 
In time to intercept his return she was at the wood pile . 
I won't , responded Joe . 
Their hands are red with blood . 
They've killed two men at the bridge . 
Who's killed ? she asked , trembling , but Joe would not tell her . 
He demanded to know what had been done with Uncle John . 
At least , that was what Joe thought , and , having deposited the basket of wood on the threshold of the kitchen door , he departed around the corner of the house . 
Presently he had climbed a pear tree , dropped from one of its overhanging branches on the lean to , raised a sash and crept into the window . 
Slipping off his shoes , heavy with spring mud , he proceeded to search for Uncle John . 
He was not in his own room he was not in the guest chamber he was not in any one of the rooms . 
On the floor , by the window in the hall , looking out upon the green , he found the broken cup and saucer that Martha Moulton had let fall . 
Having made a second round , in which he investigated every closet and penetrated into the spaces under beds , Joe thought of the garret . 
Joe went up , and was startled by a groan . 
Why , Uncle John , are you dead ? asked Joe , climbing over to his side . 
Is the house afire ? was the response . 
House afire ? No ! The confounded red coats up and put it out . 
I thought they was going to let me burn to death up here ! groaned Uncle John . 
Can I help you up ? and Joe proffered two strong hands , rather black with toil and smoke . 
No , no ! You can't help me . 
If the house isn't afire , I'll stand it till the fellows are gone , and then , Joe you fetch the doctor as quick as you can . 
YOU can't get a doctor for love nor money this night , Uncle John . 
There's too much work to be done in Lexington and Concord to night for wounded and dying men and there'll be more of 'em too afore a single red coat sees Boston again . 
They'll be hunted down every step of the way . 
They've killed Captain Davis , from Acton . 
You don't say so ! Yes , they have , and I say , Joe Devins , go down and do do something . 
There's my niece , a feeding the murderers ! I'll disown her . 
But now the feast was spent , and the soldiers were summoned to begin their painful march . 
Assembled on the green , all was ready , when Major Pitcairn , remembering the little woman who had ministered to his wants , returned to the house to say farewell . 
I would like to say good by , he said you've been very kind to me to day . 
to her eye , she arose . 
Major Pitcairn extended his hand , but she folded her own closely together , and said I wish you a pleasant journey back to Boston , sir . 
And yet I put out the fire for you , he said . 
For your mother's sake , in old England , it was , you remember , sir . 
I remember , said Major Pitcairn , with a sigh , as he turned away . 
And for HER sake I will shake hands with you , said Martha Moulton . 
Martha Moulton saw Major Pitcairn mount his horse heard the order given for the march to begin , the march of which you all have heard . 
The men of that day are long dead . 
The same soil holds regulars and minute men . 
The tree of Liberty grows yet , stately and fair , for the men of the Revolution planted it well and surely . 
God himself HATH given it increase . 
So we gather to day , in this our story , a forget me not more , from the old town of Concord . 
At last Joe Devins summoned returning neighbors , who came to the rescue , and the poor nubbins were left to the rats once more . 
Martha Moulton was the heroine of the day . 
Sweep , sweep , sweep ! Up all this dirt and dust , For Mamma is busy today and help her I surely must . 
Everything now is spick and span away to my play I will run . 
It will be such a 'sprise to Mamma to find all this work is done . 
There reigned a king in the land of Persia , mighty and great was he grown , On the necks of the kings of the conquered earth he builded up his throne . 
There sate a king on the throne of Persia and he was grown so proud That all the life of the world was less to him than a passing cloud . 
He reigned in glory joy and sorrow lying between his hands . 
If he sighed a nation shook , his smile ripened the harvest of lands . 
He was the saddest man beneath the everlasting sky , For all his glories had left him old , and the proudest king must die . 
He who was even as God to all the nations of men , Must die as the merest peasant dies , and turn into earth again . 
And his life with the fear of death was bitter and sick and accursed , As brackish water to drink of which is to be forever athirst . 
The hateful years rolled on and on , but once it chanced at noon The drowsy court was thrilled to gladness , it echoed so sweet a tune . 
Low as the lapping of tile sea , as the song of the lark is clear , Wild as the moaning of pine branches the king was fain to hear . 
Seven mighty kings went out the minstrel man to find And all they found was a dead cyprus soughing in the wind . 
And as he thought the music wandered by . 
Into the presence of the king , singing , the singer came , And his face was like the spring in flower , his eyes were clear as flame . 
What is the song you play , and what the theme your praises sing ? It is sweet I knew not I owned a thing so sweet , said the weary king . 
I sing my country , said the singer , a land that is sweeter than song . 
Which of my kingdoms is your country ? Thither would I along . 
O my distant home ! he sighed Oh , alas ! away and afar I watch thee now as a lost sailor watches a shining star . 
Oh , I am thirsty , and long to drink of the river of Life , and I Am fain to find my own country , where no man shall die . 
Out of the light of the throne the king looked down as in the spring The green leaves burst from their dusky buds , so was hope in the eyes of the king . 
Oh , the way to my country is ever north till you pass the mouth of hell , Past the limbo of dreams and the desolate land where shadows dwell . 
And when you have reached the fount of wonder , you ford the waters wan To the land of elves and the land of fairies , enchanted Masinderan . 
The singer ceased and the lyre in his hand snapped , as a cord , in twain And neither lyre nor singer was seen in the kingdom of Persia again . 
Rather for this we beseech thee , O master , for thine own sake refrain From the blasphemous madness of pride , from the fever of impious gain . 
You seek my death , the king thundered you cry , forbear to save The life of a king too old to frolic let him sleep in the grave . 
But I will live for all your treason and , by my own right hand ! I will set out this day with you to conquer Fairyland . 
Then all the nations paled aghast , for the battle to begin Was a war with God , and a war with death , and they knew the thing was sin . 
Sick at heart they gathered together , but none denounced the wrong , For the will of God was unseen , unsaid , and the will of the king was strong . 
So the air grew bright with spears , and the earth shook under the tread Of the mighty horses harnessed for battle the standards flaunted red . 
And the wind was loud with the blare of trumpets , and every house was void Of the strength and stay of the house , and the peace of the land destroyed . 
Many a day they marched in the sun till their silver armour was lead To sink their bodies into the grave , and many a man fell dead . 
And they passed the mouth of hell , and the shadowy country gray , Where the air is mist and the people mist and the rain more real than they . 
And they came to the fount of wonder , and forded the waters wan , And the king of Persia and all his armies marched on Masinderan . 
And they turned the rivers to blood , and the fields to a ravaged camp , And they neared the golden faery town , that burned in the dusk as a lamp . 
And they stood and shouted for joy to see it stand so nigh , Given into their hands for spoil and their hearts beat proud and high . 
And the armies longed for the morrow , to conquer the shining town , For there was no death in the land , neither any to strike them down . 
The hosts were many in numbers , mighty , and skilled in the strife , And they lusted for gold and conquest as the old king lusted for life . 
Darkness and deafening sounds confused the black , tempestuous air , And no man saw his neighbor's face , nor heard his neighbor's prayer . 
Handy Spandy , Jack a Dandy , Loved plum cake and sugar candy He bought some at a grocer's shop And out he come with a hop . 
Jocko is a monkey , Dressed just like a clown With the grinding organ man He travels round the town . 
Jocko , Jocko , climb a pole , Jocko climb a tree , Jocko , Jocko , tip your cap , And make a bow to me . 
I was at work that morning . 
As near they drew and nearer , my heart beat fast in alarm ! But still I stood in the doorway , with baby on my arm . 
They came they passed with spur and whip in haste they sped along Morgan , Morgan the raider , and his band six hundred strong . 
Moses was a camel that traveled o'er the sand . 
Who said that I was a naughty dog , And could not behave if I tried ? I only chewed up Katrina's French doll , And shook her rag one until it cried . 
He was seven years old , lived in Cheyenne , and his name was Tommy . 
Moreover he was going to school for the first time in his life . 
Out here little people are not allowed to attend school when they are five or six , for the Law says Children under seven must not go to school . 
There was something painfully fascinating about those whippings to restless , mischievous little Tommy who had never learned the art of sitting still . 
Tommy , child , what in the world are you doing ? she asked . 
Dick's face flushed with anger . 
All the rest of the morning Tommy kept thinking , thinking , thinking . 
One thing was certain the present situation was not to be endured one moment longer than was absolutely necessary . 
But what could he do ? Should he fight Dicky ? This plan was rejected at once , on high , moral grounds . 
There seemed something nice about this plan , very nice the more Tommy thought of it , the better he liked it only there were two objections to it . 
Firstly Daisy never by any chance ventured out doors after dark . 
Then too , it was his first term at school , and hitherto he had been very good . 
So she decided to keep him after school and talk to him of the sinfulness of bad conduct in general , and of whispering in particular . 
He was just going to tell her all about Daisy , when in walked a friend of Miss Linnet's , so he went home instead . 
It was more than flesh and blood could stand . 
All Tom's good resolutions flew sky high . 
When twelve o'clock came Miss Linnet's list of delinquents begun in this wise WHISPER MARKS . 
There was great excitement among the little people . 
How dared any one be so dreadfully bad ! Tommy's heart sank , sank , sank , when Miss Linnet said When school begins this afternoon I shall punish Tommy and Melinda . 
Oh , how mortified and ashamed Tommy was ! If only she had whipped him , or if it had been some other girl . 
But MELINDA JONES ! ! ! At the end of ten minutes Miss Linnet let them take their seats but Tommy's heart burned within him . 
Later in the day the children were startled by a sudden commotion on the other side of the room . 
Oh , please whip me ! And Miss Linnet did whip him , while Daisy , filled with remorse , clung to him sobbing as if her heart would break . 
And did my little man cry ? asked mamma . 
No , indeed ! I stood up big as I could , looked at Daisy and smiled , 'cause I was so glad it wasn't her . 
Then that proud and happy mamma took him in her arms and kissed him and right in the midst of the kissing in walked Daisy . 
Would Tommy please come and take supper with her ? Of course he would , and they walked off hand in hand . 
When they passed Dicky's house Tommy suggested . 
S'posing they forgive Dick and let him go 'long too . 
And Daisy agreeing , they called that young gentleman out and magnanimously informed him that he was forgiven and might come and have supper with them . 
What in the world they had to forgive , nobody knows but then , so long as forgiveness proved such an eminently satisfactory arrangement , all round why , nobody need care . 
Baby thinks it fine , In the summer time , To wade in the brook clear and bright . 
But a big green frog Jumped off of a log , And gave Baby Charlotte quite a fright . 
But men must work and women must weep , Though storms be sudden and waters deep , And the harbor bar be moaning . 
Striving , under his skin of tan , With the years of a lad to act like a man . 
And who was Apples ? I hear you ask . 
To trace his descent were indeed a task . 
Winding and vague was the family road And , perhaps , like Topsy , he only growed . 
Boom ! roared the gun the ship swung free , With her good prow turned to the Carib Sea . 
Pity it was , for the little cuss , We couldn't take 'Apples' along with us , The trooper said , as he walked the deck , And Tampa became a vanishing speck . 
You know how our brave men , white and black , Landed and followed the Spaniard's track And the Tenth was there in the very front , Seeking and finding the battle's brunt . 
About him the shrapnel burst in vain He was up and on with his work again . 
The sharpshooters rattled a sharp tattoo , The singing mausers around him flew . 
But Apples was busy too busy to care For the instant death and the danger there . 
In the forward trenches , at close of day , Burning with fever , Finkey lay . 
He seemed to think through the long , wet night , He still was out in the raging fight , For once he spoke in his troubled sleep I'se comin' , Cap . 
But the troopers gave what they had to give That the little mascot might stick and live . 
Over him many a dark face bent , And through it all he was well content Well content as a soldier should Who had fought his fight and the foe withstood . 
JOHN JEROME ROONEY , in New York Sun . 
Down at the pond in zero weather , To have a fine skate the girls and boys gather . 
Even the Baby thinks it a treat , But somehow cannot stay upon his feet . 
Tom , Tom , the piper's son , Stole a pig and away he run ! The pig was eat , And Tom was beat , And Tom went roaring down the street . 
I thought , Mr. Allen , when I gave my Bennie to his country , that not a father in all this broad land made so precious a gift no , not one . 
The dear boy only slept a minute , just one little minute at his post I know that was all , for Bennie never dozed over a duty . 
How prompt and reliable he was ! I know he only fell asleep one little second he was so young and not strong , that boy of mine . 
Why , he was as tall as I , and only eighteen ! And now they shoot him because he was found asleep when doing sentinel duty . 
Twenty four hours , the telegram said , only twenty fours hours . 
Where is Bennie now ? We will hope with his heavenly Father , said Mr. Allen soothingly . 
Palsy it , rather than keep it at the plow . 
'Go , then , my boy , and God keep you ! I said . 
God has kept him , I think , Mr. Allen ! And the farmer repeated these last words slowly , as if in spite of his reason his heart doubted them . 
Like the apple of the eye , Mr. Owen doubt it not . 
Blossom sat near them listening with blanched cheek . 
She had not shed a tear . 
Her anxiety had been so concealed that no one had noticed it . 
She had occupied herself mechanically in the household cares . 
Now , she answered a gentle tap at the door , opening it to receive from a neighbor's hand a letter . 
It is from him , was all she said . 
The minister opened it and read as follows Dear Father When this reaches you I shall be in eternity . 
At first it seemed awful to me , but I have thought so much about it that now it has no terror . 
They say they will not bind me , nor blind me , but that I may meet death like a man . 
You know I promised Jemmie Carr's mother I would look after her boy and when he fell sick I did all I could for him . 
He was not strong when he was ordered back into the ranks , and the day before that night , I carried all his luggage besides my own on our march . 
I was all tired out when we came into camp , and then it was Jemmie's turn to be sentry . 
I would take his place but I was too tired , father . 
I could not have kept awake if a gun had been pointed at my head but I did not know it until well , until it was too late . 
God be thanked interrupted Mr. Owen , reverently , I knew Bennie was not the boy to sleep carelessly at his post . 
They tell me to day that I have a short reprieve , 'time to write to you , the good Colonel says . 
Forgive him , Father , he only does his duty he would gladly save me if he could and do not lay my death against Jemmie . 
The poor boy is heart broken , and does nothing but beg and entreat them to let him die in my place . 
I can't bear to think of mother and Blossom . 
A deep sigh burst from Mr. Owen's heart . 
Amen , he said , solemnly , amen . 
She seemed rather flying than walking , turning her head neither to the right nor left , looking only now and then to heaven , and folding her hands is if in prayer . 
A few questions and ready answers told him all and no father could have cared more tenderly for his only child than he for our little Blossom . 
She was on her way to Washington to ask President Lincoln for her brother's life . 
She had stolen away , leaving only a note to tell them where and why she had gone . 
She had brought Bennie's letter with her no good , kind heart like the President's could refuse to be melted by it . 
The next morning they reached New York , and the conductor hurried her on to Washington . 
Every minute , now , might be the means of saving her brother's life . 
And so , in an incredibly short time , Blossom reached the Capitol and hastened to the White House . 
Well , my child , he said in his pleasant , cheerful tones , what do you want so bright and early this morning ? Bennie's life , sir , faltered Blossom . 
Who is Bennie ? My brother , sir . 
They are going to shoot him for sleeping at his post . 
O , yes , and Mr. Lincoln ran his eye over the papers before him . 
It was a fatal sleep . 
You see , my child , it was a time of special danger . 
Thousands of lives might have been lost by his culpable negligence . 
So my father said , replied Blossom , gravely . 
But poor Bennie was so tired , sir , and Jemmie so weak . 
Blossom went to him he put his hand tenderly on her shoulder and turned up the pale face toward his . 
He read it carefully then taking up his pen , wrote a few hasty lines , and rang his bell . 
Go back , or wait until tomorrow . 
Bennie will need a change after he has so bravely faced death he shall go with you . 
He was called into the President's private room and a strap fastened upon his shoulder . 
Mr. Lincoln then said The soldier that could carry a sick comrade's baggage and die for the act so uncomplainingly deserves well of his country . 
Then Bennie and Blossom took their way to their Green Mountain home . 
This tall Giraffe , Measures ten feet and a half , And I wonder if his neck Of rubber is made . 
Out of the sun He thinks he has run But only his feet Are in the shade . 
THE STORY OF THE EMPTY SLEEVE . 
Here , sit ye down alongside of me I'm getting old and gray But something in the paper , boy , has riled my blood today . 
To steal a purse is mean enough , the most of men agree But stealing reputation seems a meaner thing to me . 
A shattered arm hung at my side that day on Lookout's crag , And yet I'd give the other now to save the dear old flag . 
The regimental roll when called on Lookout's crest that night Was more than doubled by the roll Death called in realms of light . 
He swung his cap as tears of joy slow trickled down his cheek , And as our cheering died away , the general tried to speak . 
I was there with Fighting Joe . 
R. L. CARY , JR . 
The fat little elf , Says he can't run a race all by himself . 
Glad I am , mother , the holidays are over . 
It's quite different going back to school again when one goes to be captain as I'm sure to be . 
Isn't it jolly ? Mrs. Boyd's face as she smiled back at Donald was not exactly jolly . 
Still , she did smile and then there came out the strong likeness often seen between mother and son , even when , as in this case , the features were very dissimilar . 
Mrs. Boyd was a pretty , delicate little English woman and Donald took after his father , a big , brawny Scotsman , certainly not pretty , and not always sweet . 
Poor man ! he had of late years had only too much to make him sour . 
Though she tried to smile and succeeded , the tears were in Mrs. Boyd's eyes , and her mouth was quivering . 
But she set it tightly together , and then she looked more than ever like her son , or rather , her son looked like her . 
He was too eager in his delight to notice her much . 
Mr. Boyd had long been troubled with his eyes , about as serious a trouble as could have befallen a man in his profession an accountant as they call it in Scotland . 
Blind , poor father blind ! Donald put his hand before his own eyes . 
But you are not old enough to manage the business your father will require to take a partner immediately , which will reduce our income one half . 
Therefore we cannot possibly afford to send you to school again . 
The little ones must go , they are not nearly educated yet , but you are . 
You will have to face the world and earn your own living , as soon as ever you can . 
My poor boy ! Don't call me poor , mother . 
I've got you and father and the rest . 
And , as you say , I've had a good education so far . 
And I'm fifteen and a half , no , fifteen and three quarters almost a man . 
No I am not afraid because my boy has to earn his bread I had earned mine for years as a governess when father married me . 
I began work before I was sixteen . 
My son will have to do the same , that is all . 
That day the mother and son spoke no more together . 
It was as much as they could do to bear their trouble , without talking about it , and besides , Donald was not a boy to make a fuss over things . 
He could meet sorrow when it came , that is , the little of it he had ever known , but he disliked speaking of it , and perhaps he was right . 
So he just made himself scarce till bedtime , and never said a word to anybody until his mother came into the boys' room to bid them good night . 
There were three of them , but all were asleep except Donald . 
As his mother bent down to kiss him , he put both arms round her neck . 
Mother , I'm going to begin to morrow . 
Begin what , my son ? Facing the world , as you said I must . 
I can't go to school again , so I mean to try and earn my own living . 
How ? I don't quite know , but I'll try . 
There are several things I could be , a clerk or even a message boy . 
I shouldn't like it , but I'd do anything rather than do nothing . 
Mrs. Boyd sat down on the side of the bed . 
If she felt inclined to cry she had too much sense to show it . 
She only took firm hold of her boy's hand , and waited for him to speak on . 
I've been thinking , mother , I was to have a new suit at Christmas will you give it now ? And let it be a coat , not a jacket . 
I'm tall enough five feet seven last month , and growing still I should look almost a man . 
Then I would go round to every office in Edinburgh and ask if they wanted a clerk . 
I wouldn't mind taking anything to begin with . 
But alas ! no college career was now possible to Donald Boyd . 
The best he could hope for was to earn a few shillings a week as a common clerk . 
He knew this , and so did his mother . 
It was no fault of theirs , nor of anybody's . 
It was just as they devoutly called it , The will of God . 
Your Latin and Greek may come in some day , my boy , said Mrs. Boyd cheerfully . 
Good work is never lost . 
In the meantime , your plan is a good one , and you shall have your new clothes at once . 
Then , do as you think best . 
All right good night , mother , said Donald , and in five minutes more was fast asleep . 
He kept his eyes open to everything , and never let the golden minute slip by him . 
He never idled about play he didn't consider idling . 
The clothes came home on Saturday night , and he went to church in them on Sunday , to his little sister's great admiration . 
His mother saw this , and she also forbore . 
She was not surprised that the bright , brave face of the morning looked dull and tired , and that evidently Donald had no good news of the day to tell her . 
I think I'll go to bed , was all he said . 
Mother , will you give me a 'piece' in my pocket to morrow ? One can walk better when one isn't so desperately hungry . 
The same thing went on day after day , for seven days . 
Sometimes he told his mother what had happened to him and where he had been , sometimes not what was the good of telling ? It was always the same story . 
Nobody wanted a boy or a man , for Donald , trusting to his inches and his coat , had applied for man's work also , but in vain . 
Mrs. Boyd was not astonished . 
She knew how hard it is to get one's foot into ever so small a corner in this busy world , where ten are always struggling for the place of one . 
Still , she also knew that it never does to give in that one must leave no stone unturned if one wishes to get work at all . 
Also she believed firmly in an axiom of her youth Nothing is denied to well directed labor . 
But it must be real hard labor , and it must also be well directed . 
I've been all over Edinburgh , to every place I could think of writers' offices , merchants' offices , wharves , railway stations but it's no use . 
Everybody wants to know where I've been before , and I've been nowhere except to school . 
I said I was willing to learn , but nobody will teach me they say they can't afford it . 
It is like keeping a dog , and barking yourself . 
Which is only too true , added Donald , with a heavy sigh . 
May be , said Mrs. Boyd . 
I remember once , when I was only a few years older than you , finding myself with only half a crown in my pocket . 
However , it did come . 
I earned two pounds ten , the very day after that day . 
Did you really , mother ? said Donald , his eyes brightening . 
The rest of them well , mother , I've stood a good deal these seven days , Donald added , gulping down something between a fuff of wrath and a sob . 
I am sure you have , my boy . 
But I'll hold on only you'll have to get my boots mended , and meantime , I should like to try a new dodge . 
My bicycle , it lies in the washing house you remember I broke it and you didn't wish it mended , lest I should break something worse than a wheel , perhaps . 
It wasn't worth while risking my life for mere pleasure , but I want my bicycle now for use . 
But to get work was at once so essential and so hopeless , that she would not throw any cold water on Donald's eagerness and pluck . 
For his father had now fallen into a state of depression which made all application to him for either advice or help worse than useless . 
And as both he and Mrs. Boyd had been solitary orphans when they were married , there were no near relatives of any kind to come to the rescue . 
Donald knew , and his mother knew too , that he must shift for himself , to sink or swim . 
Also , he was able to come home pretty regularly at the same hour , which was a great relief to his mother . 
But he came home nearly as tired as ever , and with a despondent look which deepened every day . 
But he had one quality , the root of all success in the end , dogged perseverance . 
Never say die , was Donald's word to his mother night after night . 
After a fortnight , Mrs. Boyd made up her mind that this could not go on any longer , and said so . 
Very well , Donald answered , accepting her decision as he had been in the habit of doing all his life . 
Mrs. Boyd's children knew very well that whatever her will was , it was sure to be a just and wise will , herself being the last person she ever thought of . 
Yes , I'll give in , if you think I ought , for it's only wearing out myself and my clothes to no good . 
Only let me have one day more and I'll go as far as ever I can , perhaps to Dunfermline , or even Glasgow . 
In the dusk of the afternoon a card was brought up to her , with the message that an old gentleman was waiting below , wishing to see her . 
A shudder ran through the poor mother , who , like many another mother , hated bicycles , and never had an easy mind when Donald was away on his . 
The stranger's first word was anything but reassuring . 
I saw the lad at light this morning . 
He seemed to be managing his machine uncommonly well . 
I met him at the foot of a hill near Edinburgh Castle . 
He had got off and was walking so he saw me , and took off his cap . 
I like respect , especially in a young fellow towards an old one . 
Did he know you , for I have not that pleasure ? said Mrs. Boyd , polite , though puzzled . 
I cannot say he knew me , but he remembered me , which was civil of him . 
And then I minded the lad as the one that had come to me for work a week or two ago , and I took his name and address . 
That's your son's writing ? he jumbled out and showed a scrap of paper . 
No , ma'am you're right , he doesn't . 
He carries his character in his face which , maybe , is better than in his pocket . 
It was that which made me ask his name and address , though I could do nothing for him . 
Then you were the gentleman who told him you couldn't keep a dog and bark yourself ? said Mrs. Boyd , amused , and just a shade hopeful . 
Material , ma'am , is what we want . 
I don't care for its being raw material , if it's only of the right sort . 
I've made up my mind to try your boy . 
Thank God ! What did you say , ma'am ? But I beg your pardon . 
For he saw that Mrs. Boyd had quite broken down . 
In truth , the strain had been so long and so great that this sudden relief was quite too much for her . 
I ought to beg your pardon , she said at last , for being so foolish , but we have had hard times of late . 
And then , in a few simple words , she told Donald's whole story . 
The old man listened to it in silence . 
Sometimes he nodded his head , or beat his chin on his stout stick as he sat but he made no comment whatever , except a brief Thank you , ma'am . 
Now to business , continued he , taking out his watch for I'm due at dinner and I always keep my appointments , even with myself . 
I hope your Donald is a punctual lad ? Yes . 
He promised to be back by dark , and I am sure he will be . 
Could you not wait ? No. I never wait for anybody but keep nobody waiting for me . 
, Leith Merchants practically , old John Bethune , who began life as a message boy , and has done pretty well , considering . 
He had , as Mrs. Boyd was well aware . 
was a name so well known that she could hardly believe in her boy's good luck in getting into that house in any capacity whatever . 
So all is settled , said Mr. Bethune , rising . 
Let him come to me on Monday morning , and I'll see what he is fit for . 
He'll have to start at the very bottom sweep the office , perhaps I did it myself once and I'll give him let me see ten shillings a week to begin with . 
'To begin with , repeated Mrs. Boyd , gently but firmly but he will soon be worth more . 
I am sure of that . 
When I see what stuff he is made of , he shall have a rise . 
But I never do things at haphazard and it's easier going up than coming down . 
I'm not a benevolent man , Mrs. Boyd , and you need not think it . 
But I've fought the world pretty hard myself , and I like to help those that are fighting it . 
Isn't that your son coming round the corner ? Well , he's back exact to his time , at any rate . 
Tell him I hope he will be as punctual on Monday morning . 
There is always something at the back of it which furnishes a key to the whole . 
Practically , a man's lot is of his own making . 
He may fail , for a while undeservedly , or he may succeed undeservedly , but , in the long run , time brings its revenges and its rewards . 
As it did to Donald Boyd . 
He has not been taken into the house of Bethune Co . 
, as a partner and it was long before he became even a clerk at least with anything like a high salary . 
But a young man who deserves to find room generally does find it , or make it . 
And though Donald started at the lowest rung of the ladder , he may climb to the top yet . 
He had a fair field , and no favor . 
Indeed , he neither wished nor asked favor . 
He determined to stand on his own feet from the first . 
Still he did learn them for , unless you can trust yourself , be sure nobody else will trust you . 
This was Donald's great point . 
and other offices , too If you wish a thing done , go to Boyd . 
BY THE AUTHOR OF JOHN HALIFAX , GENTLEMAN . 
We went to the Zoo the Leopard to see , But found him an unsociable fellow . 
He would not look at us or say where he bought His polka dot suit of yellow . 
Chee , chee , chee . 
Robert of Lincoln is gayly dressed . 
Chee , chee , chee . 
Chee , chee , chee . 
Chee , chee , chee . 
Chee , chee , chee . 
Soon as the little ones chip the shell Six wide mouths are open for food Robert of Lincoln bestirs him well , Gathering seed for the hungry brood . 
Bob o' link , bob o' link , Spink , spank , spink This new life is likely to be Hard for a gay young fellow like me . 
Chee , chee , chee . 
Chee , chee , chee . 
Chee , chee , chee . 
Riggity rig , Dance a jig , Dance a Highland Fling Dance a Cake walk , Give us o Clog , Or cut a Pigeon's Wing . 
My papa's all dressed up to day He never looked so fine I thought when I first looked at him My papa wasn't mine . 
He's got a beautiful new suit The old one was so old It's blue , with buttons , oh , so bright , I guess they must be gold . 
And papa's sort o' glad and sort O' sad I wonder why And ev'ry time she looks at him It makes my mamma cry . 
Who's Uncle Sam ? My papa says That he belongs to him But papa's joking , 'cause he knows My uncle's name is Jim . 
My papa just belongs to me And mamma . 
And I guess The folks are blind who cannot see His buttons marked U. S. U. S. spells Us . 
He's ours and yet My mamma can't help cry , And papa tries to smile at me And can't I wonder why . 
I was born 'way down in Dixie , Reared beneath the Southern skies , And they didn't have to teach me Every Yankee to despise . 
I was but a country youngster When I donned a suit of gray , When I shouldered my old musket , And marched forth the Yanks to slay . 
Four long years I fought and suffered , Dixie was my battle cry Dixie always and forever , Down in Dixie let me die . 
And to night I'm down in Dixie , Dixie still so grand and true But to night I am appareled In a uniform of blue . 
And to night the band is playing 'Tis not Dixie's strains I hear , But the strains of Yankee Doodle Ring out strong and clear . 
Long I listen to the music By my side a comrade stands He's a Yank and I'm a Rebel , But we grasp each other's hands . 
Here together we united 'Way down South in Dixie stand , And my comrade whispers softly , There's no land like 'Dixie's land . 
But my eyes are filled with teardrops , Tears that make my heart feel glad And I whisper to my comrade 'Yankee Doodle' ain't so bad . 
A game of marbles We were having one day , When Baby chanced to come along that way . 
Too little he was to join our game , But he pocketed our marbles just the same . 
Prince thou art the grown up man Only is republican . 
Let the million dollared ride ! Barefoot , trudging at his side , Thou hast more than he can buy , In the reach of ear and eye Outward sunshine , inward joy . 
I was monarch pomp and joy Waited on the barefoot boy . 
Ah ! that thou couldst know thy joy , Ere it passes , barefoot boy ! JOHN GREENLEAF WHITTIER . 
Gallop , gallop ! far away . 
Pony and I are going today . 
Please get out of our way , Don't ask us to stay We'll both come back Some sunshiny day . 
Who is Babouscka ? Is she Santa Klaus' wife ? No , indeed . 
She is always in a hurry . 
One hears her running fast along the crowded streets and over the quiet country fields . 
She seems to be out of breath and tired , yet she hurries on . 
You must not think she leaves handsome gifts such as Santa Klaus brings for you . 
She does not bring bicycles to the boys or French dolls to the girls . 
She does not come in a gay little sleigh drawn by reindeer , but hobbling along on foot , and she leans on a crutch . 
She has her old apron filled with candy and cheap toys , and the children all love her dearly . 
I never saw her myself . 
What is she looking for ? Ah , that you can't guess unless you know her sad story . 
Long , long ago , a great many yesterdays ago , the Babouscka , who was even then an old woman , was busy sweeping her little hut . 
She lived in the coldest corner of cold Russia , and she lived alone in a lonely place where four wide roads met . 
These roads were at this time white with snow , for it was winter time . 
You must know the Babouscka was poor and could not afford to do her work by candle light . 
Presently , down the widest and the lonesomest of the white roads , there appeared a long train of people coming . 
They were walking slowly , and seemed to be asking each other questions as to which way they should take . 
As the procession came nearer , and finally stopped outside the little hut , Babouscka was frightened at the splendor . 
There were Three Kings , with crowns on their heads , and the jewels on the Kings' breastplates sparkled like sunlight . 
Their heavy fur cloaks were white with the falling snow flakes , and the queer humpy camels on which they rode looked white as milk in the snow storm . 
The harness on the camels was decorated with gold , and plates of silver adorned the saddles . 
The saddle cloths were of the richest Eastern stuffs , and all the servants had the dark eyes and hair of an Eastern people . 
The slaves carried heavy loads on their backs , and each of the Three Kings carried a present . 
One carried a beautiful transparent jar , and in the fading light Babouscka could see in it a golden liquid which she knew from its color must be myrrh . 
Another had in his hand a richly woven bag , and it seemed to be heavy , as indeed it was , for it was full of gold . 
The third had a stone vase in his hand , and from the rich perfume which filled the snowy air , one could guess the vase to have been filled with incense . 
You know she had never studied a geography lesson in her life , was old and stupid and scared . 
She knew the way across the fields to the nearest village , but she know nothing else of all the wide world full of cities . 
The snow was in the sky now , and the Star was lost out of sight . 
Who is the Child ? asked the old woman . 
He is a King , and we go to worship him , they answered . 
These presents of gold , frankincense and myrrh are for Him . 
When we find Him we will take the crowns off our heads and lay them at His feet . 
No , the night was dark and cheerless , and her little home was warm and cosy . 
She looked up into the sky , and the Star was nowhere to be seen . 
Besides , she wanted to put her hut in order perhaps she would be ready to go to morrow . 
But the Three Kings could not wait so when to morrow's sun rose they were far ahead on their journey . 
It seemed like a dream to poor Babouscka , for even the tracks of the camels' feet were covered by the deep white snow . 
Now that the sun was shining , and she remembered the glitter of the gold and the smell of the sweet gums and myrrh , she wished she had gone with the travelers . 
And she thought a great deal about the dear Baby the Three Kings had gone to worship . 
It is a dreadful feeling to realize that one has lost a chance of happiness . 
There is a feeling called remorse that can gnaw like a sharp little tooth . 
Babouscka felt this little tooth cut into her heart every time she remembered the visit of the Three Kings . 
After a while the thought of the Little Child became her first thought at waking and her last at night . 
One day she shut the door of her house forever , and set out on a long journey . 
She had no hope of overtaking the Three Kings , but she longed to find the Child , that she too might love and worship Him . 
She asked every one she met , and some people thought her crazy , but others gave her kind answers . 
These answers puzzled the old dame mightily . 
She had but one idea in her ignorant head . 
The Three Kings had gone to seek a Baby . 
She would , if not too late , seek Him too . 
She forgot , I am sure , how many long years had gone by . 
She looked in vain for the Christ child in His manger cradle . 
She spent all her little savings in toys and candy so as to make friends with little children , that they might not run away when she came hobbling into their nurseries . 
Now you know for whom she is sadly seeking when she pushes back the bed curtains and bends down over each baby's pillow . 
But the little children know her and love her . 
Two thousand years ago she lost the chance of finding Him . 
Crooked , wrinkled , old , sick and sorry , she yet lives on , looking into each baby's face always disappointed , always seeking . 
Will she find Him at last ? Come , Bossy , come Bossy ! Here I am with my cup , Come give me some milk , rich and sweet . 
I will pay you well with red clover hay , The nicest you ever did eat . 
When the pie was opened The birds began to sing . 
Out of the clover and blue eyed grass , He turned them into the river lane One after another he let them pass , Then fastened the meadow bars again . 
Along by the willows and over the hill He patiently followed their sober pace The merry whistle for once was still And something shadowed the sunny face . 
Only a boy , and his father had said He never could let his youngest go , Two already were lying dead Under the feet of the trampling foe . 
But , after the evening work was done , And the frogs were loud in the meadow swamp , Over his shoulder he slung his gun And stealthily followed the footpath damp . 
Across the clover and through the wheat , With resolute heart and purpose grim , Though cold was the dew on his hurrying feet , And the blind bat's flitting startled him . 
For Southern prisons will sometimes yawn And yield their dead to life again , And the day that comes with a cloudy dawn In golden glory at last may wane . 
The great tears sprang to their meeting eyes , For the hearts must speak when the lips are dumb , And under the silent evening skies Together they followed the cattle home . 
To and fro , See us go ! Up so high , Down so low Now quite fast , Now real slow . 
Singing , Swinging , This is the way , to get fresh air In a pleasant way . 
AN INCIDENT OF THE CIVIL WAR . 
They reach the spot where a mother stands With a baby shaking its little hands , Laughing aloud at the gallant sight Of the mounted soldiers , fresh from the fight . 
The captain laughs out , I will give you this , A bright piece of gold , your baby to kiss . 
My darling's kisses cannot be sold , But gladly he'll kiss a soldier bold . 
He lifts up the babe with a manly grace , And covers with kisses its smiling face . 
Its rosy cheeks and its dimpled charms , And it crows with delight in the soldier's arms . 
Not all for the captain , the troopers call The baby , we know , has a kiss for all . 
To each soldier's breast the baby is pressed By the strong rough men , and kissed and caressed . 
And louder it laughs , and the lady's face Wears a mother's smile at the fond embrace . 
Such were the words of these soldiers brave , And their eyes were moist when the kiss they gave . 
THE LOST DIAMOND SNUFF BOX . 
In one of the humblest houses of a proud nobleman's estate , a low , whitewashed cottage , one of these veterans lived not so very many years ago . 
It made no difference that the bread and the coffee were both black , and the clothes of the veteran were coarse and seldom new . 
This was the beginning of terrible trouble to the veteran of Waterloo . 
It was an invitation to dine at the castle with a company of noblemen and officers of the army . 
The old soldier rose up proudly , and gave the lackey a military salute . 
Tell his lordship , he said , that I shall report myself at headquarters , and present my thanks for the honor he has done me . 
The lackey galloped off , and the veteran pushed his chair over with his wooden leg , and clattered across the cottage floor . 
Just wait a bit and you shall see ! and he turned hastily away , for his heart came up in his throat so that he could not speak . 
All the rest of that day he sat in the door , brushing and darning and polishing his stained uniform . 
But when he had fairly reached it , and the servant had shown him into the drawing room , his heart almost failed him for a moment . 
This diamond snuff box was presented to me by the stout old Blucher himself , in remembrance of service I was able to perform at Waterloo . 
Has any one the snuff box at present ? asked his lordship , rather anxiously , for as he turned to reach it no snuff box was to be seen . 
At last one of the most famous officers rose from his seat My lord , he said , a very unlucky accident must have occurred here . 
Some one of us must have slipped the box into his pocket unconsciously , mistaking it for his own . 
The old soldier's turn came last , and with it came the surprise . 
With burning cheeks and arms folded closely across his breast he stood up and confronted the company like a stag at bay . 
But the old soldier only held his arms the tighter , while the color grew deeper in his face . 
In his perplexity his lordship thought of another expedient . 
No one shall look on , and if we find the box at last , no one can guess whose hand placed it there . 
It was quickly done , and hand after hand was thrust in , until at last came the old soldier's turn once more . 
But he was nowhere to be seen . 
Then , at last the indignation of the company broke forth . 
Meantime the old soldier , with his faithful cloak wrapped closely round him once more , was fighting his way through the sharp winds and over the moors again . 
But a battle against something a thousand times sharper and colder was going on in his breast . 
One night a cry of fire roused all the country side . 
All but the old soldier . 
Where is the veteran of Waterloo ? asked his lordship's voice , and when the old soldier stepped forward , he threw his arms about his neck with tears and sobs . 
In the first alarm of fire the butler had rushed to the plate closet to save the silver . 
Those goblets from the high shelf ! Quick ! he said , to the footman who was helping him , and with the haste about the goblets something else came tumbling down . 
The lost diamond snuff box ! cried the butler . 
Two good lessons may be learned from the story Never believe any one guilty who is not really proved to be so . 
Never let false shame keep you from confessing the truth , whether trifling or of importance . 
This big Reindeer must have run away From Santa Claus and his Christmas sleigh . 
Do you think if I should take him back A present I would get out of Santa's pack ? THE AMERICAN FLAG . 
When freedom from her mountain height Unfurled her standard to the air , She tore the azure robe of night , And set the stars of glory there . 
Flag of the free heart's hope and home , By angel hands to valor given Thy stars have lit the welkin dome , And all thy hues were born in heaven . 
Forever float that standard sheet ! Where breathes the foe but falls before us , With freedom's soil beneath our feet , And freedom's banner streaming o'er us ? JOSEPH RODMAN DRAKE . 
So what I am going to tell you now is how , and where , we youngsters spent the three days that the British occupied our houses . 
I was about twelve years old at the time . 
Then we followed father out of doors and into the school house yard where a score or more of children were already gathered still as mice for intense terror . 
'Come , children , called out Aunt Polly cheerily , 'you're all here now , and we'll start right off . 
I'll go ahead , an' all you little ones had best keep close to me the bigger ones can come along behind . 
Aunt Polly's gentle tones were unheeded . 
There's pertaters in the cellar , an' they can roast an' eat what they want . 
I'll give 'em salt an' what milk an' brown bread they want , an' that's what they'll have to live on for the present . 
As for housin' 'em , the boys can sleep on the hay in the barn , an' the girls can camp down on rugs an' comforters on the kitchen floor . 
that's the best I can do , an' if they ain't satisfied they can go furder . 
We felt that Aunt Polly would take care of us , let what would come . 
The hours dragged slowly away . 
Aunt Polly told us that the distant firing meant that our men had not retreated without an effort to defend the village . 
When this firing ceased , we began to watch and hope that some message would come from our fathers and mothers . 
We wondered among our little selves if they all had been put to death by the British , and even the oldest among us shed some dreary tears . 
Dan Parsons , who was the biggest boy among us and of an adventurous turn , went in the gathering twilight gloom down as near the village as he dared . 
He came shivering back to us with such tales of vague horror that our very hearts stopped beating while we listened . 
'I crep' along under the shadder of the alders and black berry bushes , he began , 'til I got close ter De'con Milleses house . 
'Twas as still as death 'round there , but jest as I turned the corner by the barn I see somethin' gray a flappin' and a flutterin' jest inside the barn door . 
'What's all this hullabaloo about ? he asked crossly and when he had heard the story he seized Dan and shook him till his teeth chattered . 
'What do you mean by tellin' such stuff an' scarin' these young ones ter death ? he demanded . 
Dan wriggled himself from his grasp and looked sulkily defiant 'I didn't say 'TWAS that , he muttered . 
'I said it MIGHT be , an' p'r'aps 'twas or it might 'a' been the deacon's old mare switchin' 'er tail ter keep off the flies . 
I'm sure I don't know which 'twas . 
But girls are always a squealin' at nothin' . 
Aunt Polly laid a caressing hand upon my hair 'La , child , said she soothingly , 'don't you worry yourself a bit over Dan Parson's stories . 
That boy was BORN to tell stories . 
There won't be no sculpin' nor burnin' o' houses no , dear . 
And now , giving me a little reassuring pat , 'you're all tired out , an' ought ter be asleep . 
I shouldn't wonder if your folks come for you in the mornin' . 
The next day passed slowly and anxiously for us all . 
Some of the older boys were for venturing to return , but Aunt Polly held them back with her prudent arguments . 
If their parents had considered it safe for them to come home they would have sent for them . 
The British , she said , had been known to impress boys , as well as men , into service , and the wisest way was to keep out of their sight . 
Poor critters ! Mebbe there ain't nobody left ter want one . 
He did this with the audible remark that 'if folks thought he was a feedin' an' a housin' their young ones for nothin' they'd find themselves mightily mistaken . 
The third morning dragged slowly away . 
Dinner was over and still no message for us forlorn little ones . 
At last Aunt Polly slowly arose from her seat upon the doorstep , with the light of a strong , courageous resolve on her little face . 
We're in the way , and the little ones would be better off at home with their mothers . 
Here she drew a handkerchif from her pocket . 
This she fastened carefully to a stick . 
I'll follow next with the biggest boys , and the girls , with the little ones , must keep behind where it's safest . 
The Gubtils watched us off without a word of encouragement or friendliness . 
The officer stared , and his mouth twitched mischievously as if he had hard work to keep from laughing outright . 
But he was a gentleman and when he spoke , he spoke like one . 
'My good woman , he said kindly , 'these children are nothing to me . 
If they didn't say 'twas amusing , I sh'd think 'twas stupid to play , To tug at such tiresome strings An' make them come over this way But it must be delightful . 
Mr. Bunny was a rabbit , Mr. Bunny was a thief ! He hopped into my garden And stole a cabbage leaf . 
He ate up all my parsnips Without asking if he may , And when I tried to catch him Kicked up his heels and ran away . 
Up from the meadows rich with corn , Clear in the cool September morn , The clustered spires of Frederick stand Green walled by the hills of Maryland . 
Up the street came the rebel tread , Stonewall Jackson riding ahead . 
Under his slouched hat , left and right , He glanced the old flag met his sight . 
Halt the dust brown ranks stood fast , Fire ! out blazed the rifle blast . 
It shivered the window , pane and sash It rent the banner with seam and gash . 
Quick as it fell from the broken staff , Dame Barbara snatched the silken scarf She leaned far out on the window sill , And shook it forth with a royal will . 
Shoot if you must this old gray head , But spare your country's flag , she said . 
A shade of sadness , a blush of shame , Over the face of the leader came The nobler nature within him stirred To life at that woman's deed and word . 
Who touches a hair of yon gray head Dies like a dog ! March on ! he said . 
All day long through Frederick street Sounded the tread of marching feet . 
Barbara Frietchie's work is o'er , And the rebel rides on his raids no more . 
Honor to her ! and let a tear Fall , for her sake , on Stonewall's bier . 
A sturdy cow boy I would be And chase this buffalo out in the West . 
An Indian pony I know I could ride , And round up with all the rest . 
Under his spurning feet the road Like an arrowy Alpine river flowed And the landscape sped away behind Like an ocean flying before the wind . 
See saw , Margery Daw , Jenny shall have a new master , She shall have but a penny a day , Because she can't work any faster . 
An old Hippopotamus lived on the Nile , If she hasn't gone away , she's been there quite a while . 
She gives all her children a ride on her back , Broad enough to accommodate the whole scrambling pack . 
THE CHILDREN'S HOUR Between the dark and daylight , When the night is beginning to lower , Comes a pause in the day's occupations That is known as the Children's Hour . 
I hear in the chamber above me The patter of little feet , The sound of a door that is opened , And voices soft and sweet . 
From my study I see in the lamp light , Descending the broad hall stair , Grave Alice and laughing Allegra , And Edith with golden hair . 
A whisper , and then a silence Yet I know by their merry eyes They are plotting and planning together To take me by surprise . 
And there I will keep you forever , Yes , forever and a day , Till the walls shall crumble to ruin , And moulder in dust away . 
He put in his thumb And pulled out a plum . 
So sang Caryl over the stairs . 
Now if HE pulled out a plum , why shouldn't SHE ? she said to herself , halting a bit by the landing window . 
And a good big plum too nice and juicy . 
O Aunt Sylvia , Aunt Sylvia ! She fairly hugged herself in glee , then drew one long breath and dashed on to her own poor little room . 
Oh , you here , Viny ? she exclaimed in surprise as she flung open the door . 
Caryl remembered leaving the key in the drawer after taking out a bit of lavender ribbon the night before for Aunt Sylvia's cap . 
Ben doin' ? repeated Viny , scared almost to death inwardly , but preserving a cool exterior . 
Nothin' , only shettin' the draw' plaguey thing wouldn't stay put . 
Tore my dress , she added mumblingly to fill out the pause . 
Where ? said Caryl , looking sharply at her . 
Well , somefin tore , said Viny . 
I donno whar 'tis , but it's somewhars . 
A mighty smart tare , too , Miss Ca . 
MOVE ? echoed Viny with a start Oh , lawks ! whatever's dat , Miss ? Why , go to a new place , said Caryl , laughing in spite of herself . 
For mercy's sake , child , do take your eyes in ! It'll be very fine , Viny , oh , so fine ! she cried enthusiastically . 
You are crazy , child ! exclaimed Caryl , bursting into a laugh and holding her fast . 
We can't go this moment , no matter how bad the old house is . 
Will you STOP ! cried Caryl in perfect despair . 
Threats had the power to do what nothing else could . 
Viny's eyes widened fearfully , but she didn't stir . 
Think of that , lots and lots ! Then we can move , and Aunt Sylvia will maybe get well . 
Caryl's gray eyes were only a thought less big than those of her small black audience , who presently caught the infectious enthusiasm and emitted several lusty crows . 
Oh er oh er r Caryl came to her rescue by giving her a new idea . 
See how splendid you can be , Viny dear , she said kindly . 
I know how , said Viny , perfectly overcome with the greatness thrust upon her it's to slip crickets under her feet to put her toes onter . 
I'll slip 'em all day . 
An' it's to wipe her specs , an' to say yes , no , an' to To be good , finished Caryl solemnly that comprehends the whole business . 
To be good , repeated the small nurse yet more solemnly , an' to compren' the whole bus'ness I will . 
You are a ridiculous child , cried Caryl impatiently I don't really suppose you are fit to be trusted , but then , it's the only thing to try . 
Viny , having been duly elected to office , considered her honors settled , so she was little disturbed by any opinions that might be held concerning her . 
Therefore she squatted and wriggled in great delight , grinning at every word that fell from her young mistress' lips . 
The trees were scraggy , loppy old things hanging down in dismal sweep over the leaky roof and damp walls . 
They had to stay the lodgers , but the birds and the sunshine tossed off the whole responsibility of life in such a gloomy old home , and flitted to gayer quarters . 
You shouldn't speak so , child , said Caryl with the greatest dignity it's very fine work , and you couldn't possibly understand it . 
Ho , ho ! laughed the small black figure , nowise impressed and cramming her stumpy fingers up to her mouth to keep the laugh in as she saw her young mistress' displeasure . 
It's an awful old dirty muss , an' I wish I could do it , she added under her breath . 
And I shall begin tomorrow , declared Caryl with still greater dignity , and drawing herself to her full height . 
Aunt Sylvia says she'll try you . 
Now you'll be good , won't you ? she added anxiously . 
It's only for two hours a day , Viny . 
I'll be good , declared Viny , 'strue's I live an' breeve . 
Meanwhile the darkest of plans ran riot in her little black head . 
Heart's Delight Heart's Delight ! sang Caryl's happy voice all that day and like St . 
Patrick's poor imprisoned snake , she began to feel that to morrow would never come . 
But hours come and go , and Caryl awoke the next morning , the brightest , cheeriest morning that ever called a happy girl out of bed . 
Aunt Sylvia won't have many more days in that dark little room of hers , she cried to herself , throwing on her clothes rapidly . 
I'll do well enough while you are gone , said her aunt , smiling up from the pillows into the bright face above hers . 
Now you're not to worry about me in the least , for you cannot do justice to yourself if your mind is troubled . 
Remember , Caryl , and be thorough in your efforts to teach your little pupils . 
Then , Auntie oh , then ! The young girl in her eagerness climbed upon the old bed to lay her fresh young cheek against the pale thin one . 
How she longed to put brightness into the poor invalid's life ! Remember , said Aunt Sylvia lightly , to hide the tears in her voice , your fortune's to be made . 
Only be prompt and thorough , and put your whole mind to your work . 
That is the secret of success . 
Viny will prove a capital little nurse , I expect , said Miss Sylvia cheerfully now the day won't wait , Caryl , so get your old auntie up . 
The best cap , Aunt Sylvia the best cap ! she cried , running for the one with the fresh lavender ribbons . 
What an extravagant puss ! exclaimed Aunt Sylvia , willing to humor the gay little heart , and tapping her cheek as the young girl settled the cap on the lovely gray hair . 
Everything must be best to day , cried Caryl recklessly . 
It's all fresh and new and fine ! All the world is made just for us . 
Dat chile can't make no fortin' like she's a tinkin' of , but laws ! let her try . 
Here , yer Viny , yer , be off up to de Missis' room . 
'Twarn't so in ole Patty's day . 
Den dar wos plenty pies and turkeys . 
Missis ud feel more like folks , she said at each disdainful scrutiny , an' like as not git well , ef we cud cut sticks inter anudder home . 
Ef de chile only CUD do it ! She peered anxiously down the dirty little brick walk again , then fetched a still longer sigh . 
I don't darst to ! she declared in a mighty burst at last . 
I don't , cos wot ud keep us all from the pore 'us den . 
Meantime the little black nurse had begun her work . 
Peering around Miss Sylvia's half closed door , Viny exclaimed to herself , Umph ! she don't want me guess she's a'readin' now . 
Viny , called Miss Sylvia's soft voice , hearing a rustle at the door . 
These afforded her intense comfort . 
When she came up bright and shining after this celebration of her independence , she drew herself up with a serious face and proceeded at once to stern business . 
Two hours ain't long , she observed wisely , an' I mus' be back some of de time . 
Ruthlessly , then , they were pulled out and overhauled , while Viny reveled in each new discovery , chattering softly to herself in glee . 
She tied on all the bright bits of ribbons she could lay her hands on , to the little tiny tails adorning her head . 
Viny was nowise disturbed in her enjoyment at certain ominous crackings and creakings that proclaimed the giving way of the delicate material . 
I want sumfin to shine , she said at last , tired of this jew EL lery an' stuns . 
Le's see ef she's got any . 
Maum Patty was droning away in the kitchen some old Methodist hymns . 
It filled her whole soul with dismay , rooting her like a little frozen thing to the spot . 
It was Miss Sylvia , she knew . 
With one mighty effort she tore herself from the spot , and rushed headlong into the hall . 
Oh oh OH ! came from the invalid's room . 
At that Viny wrung her hands and writhed in dire distress . 
A doctor ! was all her thought . 
She remembered hearing Caryl say he lived in a big brown house that had lots of flowers in the windows . 
But where upon the face of the earth the house was situated , Viny knew no more than a bird . 
Oh , my goodness ! cried the old lady , startled out of all fine speeches by the collision , and jumping in fright to the extreme edge of the curbstone . 
I know it , she cried , oh , dear , I know it ! she's dead , an' grandma 'll beat me . 
The old lady , now her attention was drawn off from her own annoyance , settled her eyes on the brooch half concealed by a fold of the little lace spenser . 
That's TOO much ! The little black figure being too wretched to hear this tirade , could only mumble and wail and wriggle closer and closer into the folds of the rich gown . 
Get out of my dress ! cried the old lady excitedly . 
A pair of handsome bays were coming in their best step down from the Square , drawing a carriage full of people who seemed in the very best of spirits . 
Look out , Caryl ! called the others in the carriage after her . 
Oh , she'll be killed , moaned a little girl leaning out as far as she dared over the wheels . 
And then she can't ever get into the pretty new house , wailed another . 
Oh , what shall we do ! Come back , Bessie ! she cried , tugging at her sister's skirts . 
Caryl made her way through the crowd with flushed face , her little brown hat hanging by its strings around her neck , pantingly dragging after her the little black girl . 
Drive just as fast as you can , Thomas , to No. , you know , she commanded hurriedly . 
Then the first thing Caryl did was to turn upon Viny and unhook the precious brooch as a low sob came from her white lips . 
If it had been lost ! A soft hand stole under the little brown cloak to clasp her own but Madam Grant said never a word . 
She knew what the young girl's heart was too full for speech that the mother's brooch would speak more tenderly than ever she could , of forgiveness to the little ignorant black girl . 
Maum Patty was singing in the little kitchen the refrain she never indulged in except in her most complacent moods . 
Massy , how yer look ! Tain't wurth it don't ! He hain't spile't it I stopped him , she added exultingly . 
Stopped what ? echoed Caryl in bewildered distress . 
Oh , do tell me ! Is'nt Aunt Sylvia sick ? Tell me , Maum Patty , she pleaded . 
And she grasped the old woman's arm in an agony of suspense . 
But I stopped him I stopped him ! she added triumphantly . 
Caryl had no strength to ask further , nor to stir . 
The reaction was too great , and she leaned up against the door for support . 
He shuck it , an' shuck it , said the old woman , laughing immoderately . 
Lawks , but I couldn't help it ! I laughed till I cried to see dat dog carry on . 
Ding Dong bell ! Pussy's in the well ! Who put her in ? '' Little Tommy Green . 
'' Who pulled her out ? '' Big Jack Stout . 
'' What a naughty act was that , To drown poor Pussy Cat ! '' OUR TWO OPINIONS . 
Seemed like we knew ther wuz goin' to be Serious trouble f'r me and him Us two shuck hands , did Jim 'nd me . 
