Scanned by Charles Keller with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
com TALES FROM TWO HEMISPHERES . 
CONTENTS THE MAN WHO LOST HIS NAME THE STORY OF AN OUTCAST A GOOD FOR NOTHING A SCIENTIFIC VAGABOND TRULS , THE NAMELESS ASATHOR'S VENGEANCE TALES FROM TWO HEMISPHERES . 
THE MAN WHO LOST HIS NAME . 
ON the second day of June , , a young Norseman , Halfdan Bjerk by name , landed on the pier at Castle Garden . 
He passed through the straight and narrow gate where he was asked his name , birthplace , and how much money he had , at which he grew very much frightened . 
And your destination ? demanded the gruff looking functionary at the desk . 
America , said the youth , and touched his hat politely . 
Do you think I have time for joking ? roared the official , with an oath . 
whose function it was to open and shut the gate . 
There aint many as go to Nebraska . 
His mouth and chin were well cut , but their lines were , perhaps , rather weak for a man . 
When in repose , the ensemble of his features was exceedingly pleasing and somehow reminded one of Correggio's St . 
He had left his native land because he was an ardent republican and was abstractly convinced that man , generically and individually , lives more happily in a republic than in a monarchy . 
Halfdan was an only child . 
In the Latin school Halfdan had enjoyed the reputation of being a bright youth , and at the age of eighteen , he had entered the university under the most promising auspices . 
He could make very fair verses , and play all imaginable instruments with equal ease , which made him a favorite in society . 
Whatever he turned his hand to , he did well , in fact , astonishingly well for a dilettante , and yet not well enough to claim the title of an artist . 
Nor did it ever occur to him to make such a claim . 
And in return for all his exertions they called him sweet and beautiful , and applied to him many other enthusiastic adjectives seldom heard in connection with masculine names . 
If this had been the fate of our friend Bjerk , we should have dismissed him here with a confident vale on his life's pilgrimage . 
It was , like everything that pertained to him , a cheerful , genial conviction , without the slightest tinge of bitterness . 
The old institutions were obsolete , rotten to the core , he said , and needed a radical renovation . 
These were the sunny days in Halfdan's career , days long to be remembered . 
They came to an abrupt end when old Mrs. Bjerk died , leaving nothing behind her but her furniture and some trifling debts . 
for the modest sum of dollars specie . 
From Castle Garden , Halfdan made his way up through Greenwich street , pursued by a clamorous troop of confidence men and hotel runners . 
Ich bin auch Deutsch , cried one . 
Voila , voila , je parle Francais , shouted another , seizing hold of his valise . 
Tale Dansk , roared a third , with an accent which seriously impeached his truthfulness . 
The conductor called for fares , and received an English shilling , which , after some ineffectual expostulation , he pocketed , but gave no change . 
At last after about an hour's journey , the car stopped , the conductor called out Central Park , and Halfdan woke up with a start . 
He dismounted with a timid , deliberate step , stared in dim bewilderment at the long rows of palatial residences , and a chill sense of loneliness crept over him . 
The hopeless strangeness of everything he saw , instead of filling him with rapture as he had once anticipated , Sent a cold shiver to his heart . 
What is your name , my little girl ? he asked , in a tone of friendly interest . 
I do not speak as well as you do , yet but I shall soon learn . 
How old are you ? she asked , raising her parasol , and throwing back her head with an air of superiority . 
I am twenty four years old . 
She began to count half aloud on her fingers One , two , three , four , but , before she reached twenty , she lost her patience . 
Twenty four , she exclaimed , that is a great deal . 
I am only seven , and papa gave me a pony on my birthday . 
Have you got a pony ? No I have nothing but what is in this valise , and you know I could not very well get a pony into it . 
Clara glanced curiously at the valise and laughed then suddenly she grew serious again , put her hand into her pocket and seemed to be searching eagerly for something . 
Presently she hauled out a small porcelain doll's head , then a red painted block with letters on it , and at last a penny . 
Do you want them ? she said , reaching him her treasures in both hands . 
You may have them all . 
Halfdan rose and wandered for hours aimlessly along the intertwining roads and footpaths . 
A strange , unconquerable dread took possession of him , as if he had been caught in a swift , strong whirlpool , from which he vainly struggled to escape . 
He crouched down among the foliage and shuddered . 
He could not return to the city . 
No , no he never would return . 
During these reflections he fell asleep , and slept soundly for two or three hours . 
Once , he seemed to hear footsteps and whispers among the trees , and made an effort to rouse himself , but weariness again overmastered him and he slept on . 
At last , he felt himself seized violently by the shoulders , and a gruff voice shouted in his ear Get up , you sleepy dog . 
He rubbed his eyes , and , by the dim light of the moon , saw a Herculean policeman lifting a stout stick over his head . 
His former terror came upon him with increased violence , and his heart stood for a moment still , then , again , hammered away as if it would burst his sides . 
Come along ! roared the policeman , shaking him vehemently by the collar of his coat . 
But the official Hercules was inexorable . 
My valise , my valise cried Halfdan . 
Pray let me get my valise . 
They returned to the place where he had slept , but the valise was nowhere to be found . 
The grand the happy republic , he murmured , spontaneous blossoming of the soul . 
Alas ! I have rooted up my life I fear it will never blossom . 
The next morning , Halfdan was released from the Police Station , having first been fined five dollars for vagrancy . 
In order to increase his capital he bought some fifty Tribunes , but , as it was already late in the day , he hardly succeeded in selling a single copy . 
He made a vain effort to defend himself the situation appeared so utterly incomprehensible to him , and in his dumb helplessness he looked pitiful enough to move the heart of a stone . 
No English phrase suggested itself to him , only a few Norse interjections rose to his lips . 
The man's anger suddenly abated he picked up the paper which he had thrown on the sidewalk , and stood for a while regarding Halfdan curiously . 
Are you a Norwegian ? he asked . 
Yes , I came from Norway yesterday . 
What's your name ? Halfdan Bjerk . 
Halfdan Bjerk ! My stars ! Who would have thought of meeting you here ! You do not recognize me , I suppose . 
Halfdan declared with a timid tremor in his voice that he could not at the moment recall his features . 
No , I imagine I must have changed a good deal since you saw me , said the man , suddenly dropping into Norwegian . 
I am Gustav Olson , I used to live in the same house with you once , but that is long ago now . 
Gustav Olson to be sure , he was the porter's son in the house , where his mother had once during his childhood , taken a flat . 
Since that time he had vanished from Halfdan's horizon . 
But his linen was irreproachable , and a certain dash in his manner , and the loud fashionableness of his attire , gave unmistakable evidences of prosperity . 
That won't pay here , you know . 
Come along to our office and I will see if something can't be done for you . 
Hurry up , I haven't much time to spare . 
The office is only two blocks from here . 
You don't look as if you could afford to throw away a friendly offer . 
The last words suddenly roused Halfdan from his apathy for he felt that they were true . 
A drowning man cannot afford to make nice distinctions cannot afford to ask whether the helping hand that is extended to him be that of an equal or an inferior . 
So he swallowed his humiliation and threaded his way through the bewildering turmoil of Broadway , by the side of his officious friend . 
They entered a large , elegantly furnished office , where clerks with sleek and severely apathetic countenances stood scribbling at their desks . 
You will have to amuse yourself as best you can , said Olson . 
Mr. Van Kirk will be here in twenty minutes . 
I haven't time to entertain you . 
A dreary half hour passed . 
There was something brisk , determined , and business like in his manner , which made it seem very hopeless to Halfdan to appear before him as a petitioner . 
Presently Olson entered the private office , closing the door behind him , and a few minutes later re appeared and summoned Halfdan into the chief's presence . 
You are a Norwegian , I hear , said the merchant , looking around over his shoulder at the supplicant , with a preoccupied air . 
What can you do ? What can you do ? A fatal question . 
But here was clearly no opportunity for mental debate . 
Examen artium is the entrance examination to the Norwegian University , and philosophicum the first degree . 
, laudabilis or laud , haud illaudabilis , or haud , etc . 
Mr. Van Kirk wheeled round on his chair and faced the speaker That is all Greek to me , he said , in a severe tone . 
Can you keep accounts ? No. I am afraid not . 
Keeping accounts was not deemed a classical accomplishment in Norway . 
Then you don't know book keeping ? I think not . 
Then you may be sure you don't know it . 
But you must certainly have tried your hand at something . 
Is there nothing you can think of which might help you to get a living ? I can play the piano and and the violin . 
You may come this afternoon to my house . 
Mr. Olson will tell you the address . 
I will give you a note to Mrs. Van Kirk . 
Perhaps she will engage you as a music teacher for the children . 
All was so strange , so strange nowhere a familiar object to give rest to the wearied eye . 
It read as follows DEAR MARTHA , The bearer of this note is a young Norwegian , I forgot to ascertain his name , a friend of Olson's . 
He wishes to teach music . 
Your name , if you please ? said Mrs. Van Kirk , having for awhile measured her visitor with a glance of mild scrutiny . 
Half dan B , how do you spell that ? B j e r k . 
Well , but I mean , what is your name in English ? Halfdan looked blank , and blushed to his ears . 
I wish to know , continued the lady energetically , evidently anxious to help him out , what your name would mean in plain English . 
Bjerk , it certainly must mean something . 
Bjerk is a tree a birch tree . 
Very well , Birch , that is a very respectable name . 
And your first name ? What did you say that was ? H a l f d a n . 
Why not a whole Dan and be done with it ? Dan Birch , or rather Daniel Birch . 
Indeed , that sounds quite Christian . 
As you please , madam , faltered the victim , looking very unhappy . 
You will pardon my straightforwardness , won't you ? B jerk . 
I could never pronounce that , you know . 
Whatever may be agreeable to you , madam , will be sure to please me . 
That is very well said . 
And you will find that it always pays to try to please me . 
And you wish to teach music ? If you have no objection I will call my oldest daughter . 
Halfdan bowed assent , and Mrs. Van Kirk rustled out into the hall where she rang a bell , and re entered . 
A servant in dress coat appeared , and again vanished as noiselessly as he had come . 
To our Norseman there was some thing weird and uncanny about these silent entrances and exits he could hardly suppress a shudder . 
And now , dear , you will have to decide about the merits of Mr. Birch . 
I don't know enough about music to be anything of a judge . 
If Mr. Birch will be kind enough to play , said Miss Edith with a languidly musical intonation , I shall be happy to listen to him . 
Halfdan silently signified his willingness and followed the ladies to a smaller apartment which was separated from the drawing room by folding doors . 
And still , all the while he had a painful sub consciousness of his own unfortunate appearance , which was thrown into cruel relief by her splendor . 
And she was most profoundly impressed . 
she rose and hurried to his side with a heedless eagerness , which was more eloquent than emphatic words of praise . 
as rather a blemish of an otherwise perfect composition . 
But as you play it , it is anything but monotonous . 
You put into this single phrase a more intense meaning and a greater variety of thought than I ever suspected it was capable of expressing . 
It is my favorite composition , answered he , modestly . 
I have listened to you with profound satisfaction . 
Halfdan acknowledged the compliment by a bow and a blush , and repeated the latter part of the nocturne according to Edith's request . 
And now , resumed Edith , may I trouble you to play the G minor , which has even puzzled me more than the one you have just played . 
It ought really to have been played first , replied Halfdan . 
It is far intenser in its coloring and has a more passionate ring , but its conclusion does not seem to be final . 
There is no rest in it , and it seems oddly enough to be a mere transition into the major , which is its proper supplement and completes the fragmentary thought . 
Mr. Birch , said Edith , as he arose from the piano with a flushed face , and the agitation of the music still tingling through his nerves . 
You are a far greater musician than you seem to be aware of . 
I hardly know if I can teach you anything , answered he , while his eyes dwelt with keen delight on her beautiful form . 
But in my present position I can hardly afford to decline so flattering an offer . 
You mean to say that you would decline it if you were in a position to do so , said she , smiling . 
No , only that I should question my convenience more closely . 
I take all the responsibility . 
I shall cheerfully consent to being imposed upon by you . 
Somebody else might make the same discovery that we have made to day , and outbid us . 
And we do not want to be cheated out of our good fortune in having been the first to secure so valuable a prize . 
You need have no fear on that score , madam , retorted Halfdan , with a vivid blush , and purposely misinterpreting the polite subterfuge . 
You may rely upon my promise . 
I shall be here again , as soon as you wish me to return . 
Then , if you please , we shall look for you to morrow morning at ten o'clock . 
And Mrs. Van Kirk hesitatingly folded up her notes and replaced them in her pocket book . 
To our idealist there was something extremely odious in this sudden offer of money . 
It was the first time any one had offered to pay him , and it seemed to put him on a level with a common day laborer . 
Her presence seemed so intense , so all absorbing , that it left no thought for the music . 
Edith had opened one of those small red covered volumes of Chopin where the rich , wondrous melodies lie peacefully folded up like strange exotic flowers in an herbarium . 
She began to play the fantasia impromtu , which ought to be dashed off at a single heat , whose passionate impulse hurries it on breathlessly toward its abrupt finale . 
But Edith toiled considerably with her fingering , and blurred the keen edges of each swift phrase by her indistinct ar ticulation . 
And still there was a sufficiently ardent intention in her play to save it from being a failure . 
She made a gesture of disgust when she had finished , shut the book , and let her hands drop crosswise in her lap . 
But your fingers , as yet , refuse to carry out your fine intentions . 
And do you suppose you can discipline them ? They are a fearfully obstinate set , and cause me infinite mortification . 
Would you allow me to look at your hand ? She raised her right hand , and with a sort of impulsive heedlessness let it drop into his . 
An exclamation of surprise escaped him . 
If you will pardon me , he said , it is a superb hand a hand capable of performing mira cles musical miracles I mean . 
so firmly set in the joint and still so flexible . 
I doubt if Liszt himself can boast a finer row of fingers . 
Your hands will surely not prevent you from becoming a second Von Bulow , which to my mind means a good deal more than a second Liszt . 
Thank you , that is quite enough , she exclaimed , with an incredulous laugh you have done bravely . 
That at all events throws the whole burden of responsibility upon myself , if I do not become a second somebody . 
You are too modest you do not No , no , I am not modest , she interrupted him with an impetuosity which startled him . 
I beg of you not to persist in paying me compliments . 
I get too much of that cheap article elsewhere . 
I hate to be told that I am better than I know I am . 
If you are to do me any good by your instruction , you must be perfectly sincere toward me , and tell me plainly of my short comings . 
I promise you beforehand that I shall never be offended . 
Now , is it a bargain ? His fingers closed involuntarily over the soft beautiful hand , and once more the luxury of her touch sent a thrill of delight through him . 
I have not been insincere , he murmured , but I shall be on my guard in future , even against the appearance of insincerity . 
And when I play detestably , you will say so , and not smooth it over with unmeaning flatteries ? I will try . 
Very well , then we shall get on well together . 
Do not imagine that this is a mere feminine whim of mine . 
I never was more in earnest . 
They exert themselves to the utmost to make us mere playthings , and , as such , contemptible both in our own eyes and in theirs . 
No sincere respect can exist where the truth has to be avoided . 
But the majority of American women are made of too stern a stuff to be dealt with in that way . 
They feel the lurking insincerity even where politeness forbids them to show it , and it makes them disgusted both with themselves , and with the flatterer . 
He hardly knew what to answer . 
I am afraid I have shocked you , she resumed , noticing the startled expression of his countenance . 
But really it was quite inevitable , if we were at all to understand each other . 
You will forgive me , won't you ? Forgive ! stammered he , I have nothing to forgive . 
It was only your merciless truth fulness which startled me . 
I rather owe you thanks , if you will allow me to be grateful to you . 
It seems an enviable privilege . 
Now , interrupted Edith , raising her forefinger in playful threat , remember your promise . 
The lesson was now continued without further interruption . 
Clara was evidently greatly impressed by the change in his appearance , and could with difficulty be restrained from commenting upon it . 
She proved a very apt scholar in music , and enjoyed the lessons the more for her cordial liking of her teacher . 
It will be necessary henceforth to omit the less significant details in the career of our friend Mr. Birch . 
Before a month was past , he had firmly established himself in the favor of the different members of the Van Kirk family . 
Mrs. Van Kirk spoke of him to her lady visitors as a perfect jewel , frequently leaving them in doubt as to whether he was a cook or a coachman . 
Mr. Van Kirk himself , of course , was non committal , but paid the bills unmurmuringly . 
Halfdan in the meanwhile was vainly struggling against his growing passion for Edith but the more he rebelled the more hopelessly he found himself entangled in its inextricable net . 
Thus he too kicked against the pricks , hoped , feared , rebelled against his destiny , and again , from sheer weariness , relapsed into a dull , benumbed apathy . 
In spite of her friendly sympathy , he never felt so keenly his alienism as in her presence . 
But it never occurred to her to regard his devotion in a serious light , and to look upon him as a possible lover had evidently never entered her head . 
, often with false accent , but always with intense enthusiasm . 
removed him at times almost beyond the reach of her sympathy . 
, became by degrees a very palpable and intelligible fact to her . 
Frequently while her American self was thus loudly asserting itself , Edith inflicted many a cruel wound upon her foreign adorer . 
While waiting , they naturally enough spent their time in singing national songs , and Halfdan's clear tenor did good service in keeping the straggling voices together . 
When they had finished , Edith went up to him and was quite effusive in her expressions of gratitude . 
I am sure we ought all to be very grateful to you , Mr. Birch , she said , and I , for my part , can assure you that I am . 
Grateful ? Why ? demanded Halfdan , looking quite unhappy . 
For singing OUR national songs , of course . 
Now , won't you sing one of your own , please ? We should all be so delighted to hear how a Swedish or Norwegian , is it ? national song sounds . 
Yes , Mr. Birch , DO sing a Swedish song , echoed several voices . 
They , of course , did not even remotely suspect their own cruelty . 
Edith had taken pains to dispel the happy illusion , and had sent him once more whirling toward his cold native Pole . 
Suddenly his voice burst out into the Swedish national anthem , Our Land , our Land , our Fatherland , and the air shook and palpitated with strong martial melody . 
His indignation , his love and his misery , imparted strength to his voice , and its occasional tremble in the PIANO passages was something more than an artistic intention . 
He was loudly applauded as he arose , and the young ladies thronged about him to ask if he wouldn't please write out the music for them . 
Thus month after month passed by , and every day brought its own misery . 
Mrs. Van Kirk's patronizing manners , and ostentatious kindness , often tested his patience to the utmost . 
And he , listening passively in admiring silence to her argument , thanked her even for the momentary pain because it was followed by so great a happiness . 
For it was so sweet to be defended by Edith , to feel that he and she were standing together side by side against the outer world . 
Then , to touch that delicate Elizabethan frill which wound itself so daintily about Edith's neck what inconceivable rapture ! But it was quite impossible . 
It is one of the tragic facts of this life , that a relation so unequal as that which existed between Halfdan and Edith , is at all possible . 
As for Edith , I must admit that she was well aware that her teacher was in love with her . 
It was of course no fault of Edith's that she had become possessed of Halfdan's heart secret . 
She regarded it as on the whole rather an absurd affair , and prized it very lightly . 
strike us rather as part of a supposed mental alienism , and as such , naturally suspicious . 
It is rather disgraceful than otherwise to have your music teacher in love with you , and critical friends will never quite banish the suspicion that you have encouraged him . 
Edith had , in her first delight at the discovery of Halfdan's talent , frankly admitted him to a relation of apparent equality . 
He appeared so well in a parlor , and had really such a distinguished presence , that it was a pleasure to look at him . 
his politeness was unobtrusive and subdued , and of his accent there was just enough left to give an agreeable color of individuality to his speech . 
But , for all that , Edith could never quite rid herself of the impression that he was intensely un American . 
An American could never have been content to remain in an inferior position without trying , in some way , to better his fortunes . 
And if Clara , to coax him into continuing the entertainment , offered to kiss him , his measure of joy was full . 
This fair child , with her affectionate ways , and her confiding prattle , wound herself ever more closely about his homeless heart , and he clung to her with a touching devotion . 
For she was the only one who seemed to be unconscious of the difference of blood , who had not yet learned that she was an American and he a foreigner . 
Three years had passed by and still the situation was unchanged . 
Halfdan still taught music and told fairy stories to the children . 
It was getting to be quite fashionable to admire his quiet , unostentatious style of playing , which was so far removed from the noisy bravado and clap trap then commonly in vogue . 
Even professional musicians began to indorse him , and some , who had discovered that there was money in him , made him tempting offers for a public engagement . 
But , with characteristic modesty , he distrusted their verdict his sensitive nature shrank from anything which had the appearance of self assertion or display . 
But Edith ah , if it had not been for Edith he might have found courage to enter at the door of fortune , which was now opened ajar . 
That fame , if he should gain it , would bring him any nearer to her , was a thought that was alien to so unworldly a temperament as his . 
And any action that had no bearing upon his relation to her , left him cold seemed unworthy of the effort . 
And at last Edith did ask him to play . 
She and Olson had plotted together , and from the very friendliest motives agreed to play into each other's hands . 
If you only WOULD consent to play , said she , in her own persuasive way , one day as they had finished their lesson , we should all be so happy . 
Only think how proud we should be of your success , for you know there is nothing you can't do in the way of music if you really want to . 
Do you really think so ? exclaimed he , while his eyes suddenly grew large and luminous . 
Indeed I do , said Edith , emphatically . 
Do you hear ? When Edith assumed this tone toward him , she might well have made him promise to perform miracles . 
She was too intent upon her benevolent scheme to heed the possible inferences which he might draw from her sudden display of interest . 
Then you promise ? repeated she , eagerly , as he hesitated to answer . 
Halfdan reddened up to his temples , and began to twist his watch chain nervously . 
You must have small confidence in my ability , he murmured , since you resort to precautions like these . 
But my dear Mr. Birch , cried Edith , who was quick to discover that she had made a mistake , it is not kind in you to mistrust me in that way . 
If a New York audience were as highly cultivated in music as you are , I admit that my precautions would be superfluous . 
But the papers , you know , will take their tone from the audience , and therefore we must make use of a little innocent artifice to make sure of it . 
You don't know the American way of doing things as well as I do , therefore you must stand by your promise , and leave everything to me . 
It was impossible not to believe that anything Edith chose to do was above reproach . 
She looked so bewitching in her excited eagerness for his welfare that it would have been inhuman to oppose her . 
So he meekly succumbed , and began to discuss with her the programme for the concert . 
He carried his audience by storm . 
As his eyes rested on her , they became suddenly suffused with tears , and a vast bewildering happiness vibrated through his frame . 
At last he tore himself away and wandered aimlessly through the long , lonely streets . 
It had hardly occurred to him , then , to question whether she would love him in return , it had appeared so very natural that she should . 
Now he had found this maiden , and she had been very kind to him but her kindness had been little better than cruelty , because he had demanded something more than kindness . 
And still he had never told her of his love . 
He must tell her even this very night while the moon rode high in the heavens and all the small differences between human beings seemed lost in the vast starlit stillness . 
He knew well that by the relentless glare of the daylight his own insignificance would be cruelly conspicuous in the presence of her splendor his scruples would revive , and his courage fade . 
The night was clear and still . 
A clock struck eleven in some church tower near by . 
The Van Kirk mansion rose tall and stately in the moonlight , flinging a dense mass of shadow across the street . 
Up in the third story he saw two windows lighted the curtains were drawn , but the blinds were not closed . 
All the rest of the house was dark . 
He raised his voice and sang a Swedish serenade which seemed in perfect concord with his own mood . 
H. H. B. The curtain was drawn aside , the window cautiously raised , and the outline of Edith's beautiful head appeared dark and distinct against the light within . 
You must go away , Mr. Birch , came her voice in an anxious whisper out of the shadow . 
You will wake up the people . 
Her words were audible enough , but they failed to convey any meaning to his excited mind . 
Dear Mr. Birch , she whispered once more in tones of distress . 
Or perhaps , she interrupted herself wait one moment and I will come down . 
With one leap Halfdan sprang up the stairs and pushed through the half opened door . 
Edith closed the door behind him , then with rapid steps led the way to the back parlor where the moon broke feebly through the bars of the closed shutters . 
Now Mr. Birch , she said , seating herself upon a lounge , you may explain to me what this unaccountable behavior of yours means . 
I should hardly think I had deserved to be treated in this way by you . 
Halfdan was utterly bewildered a nervous fit of trembling ran through him , and he endeavored in vain to speak . 
He had been prepared for passionate reproaches , but this calm severity chilled him through , and he could only gasp and tremble , but could utter no word in his defense . 
Then to morrow we should have seen it in all the newspapers , and I should have been the laughing stock of the whole town . 
No , surely he had never thought of it in that light the idea struck him as entirely new . 
There was a long pause . 
A cock crowed with a drowsy remoteness in some neighboring yard , and the little clock on the mantel piece ticked on patiently in the moonlit dusk . 
If you have nothing to say , resumed Edith , while the stern indifference in her voice perceptibly relaxed , then I will bid you good night . 
She arose , and with a grand sweep of her drapery , moved toward the door . 
Miss Edith , cried he , stretching his hands despairingly after her , you must not leave me . 
She paused , tossed her hair back with her hands , and gazed at him over her shoulder . 
He threw himself on his knees , seized the hem of her dress , and pressed it to his lips . 
It was a gesture of such inexpressible humility that even a stone would have relented . 
Do not be foolish , Mr. Birch , she said , try ing to pull her dress away from him . 
Get up , and if you have anything rational to say to me , I will stay and listen . 
Yes , yes , he whispered , hoarsely , I shall be rational . 
Only do not leave me . 
She again sank down wearily upon the lounge , and looked at him in expectant silence . 
Miss Edith , pleaded he in the same hoarse , passionate undertone , have pity on me , and do not despise me . 
I love you oh if you would but allow me to die for you , I should be the happiest of men . 
Again he shuddered , and stood long gazing at her with a mute , pitiful appeal . 
A tear stole into Edith's eye and trickled down over her cheek . 
Ah , Mr. Birch , she murmured , while a sigh shook her bosom , I am sorry very sorry that this misfortune has happened to you . 
You have deserved a better fate than to love me to love a woman who can never give you anything in return for what you give her . 
But I see that it cannot be . 
It will perhaps be best for you henceforth not to see me , at least not until pardon the expression you have out lived this generous folly . 
And now , you know , you will need me no more . 
You have made a splendid reputation , and if you choose to avail yourself of it , your fortune is already made . 
I shall always rejoice to hear of your success , and and if you should ever need a FRIEND , you must come to no one but me . 
I know that these are feeble words , Mr. Birch , and if they seem cold to you , you must pardon me . 
I can say nothing more . 
They were indeed feeble words , although most cordially spoken . 
He tried to weigh them , to measure their meaning , but his mind was as if benumbed , and utterly incapable of thought . 
He walked across the floor , perhaps only to do something , not feeling where he trod , but still with an absurd sensation that he was taking immoderately long steps . 
Then he stopped abruptly , wrung his hands , and gazed at Edith . 
It seemed strangely familiar , and in the next instant strangely mean ingless and unreal . 
The walls , the floor everything began to move , to whirl about him he struck his hands against his forehead , and sank down into a damask covered easy chair . 
With a faint cry of alarm , Edith sprang up , seized a bottle of cologne which happened to be within reach , and knelt down at his side . 
She put her arm around his neck , and raised his head . 
Thank heaven ! he is better , she murmured , still continuing to bathe his temples . 
How do you feel now , Mr. Birch ? she added , in a tone of anxious inquiry . 
Thank you , it was an unpardonable weakness , he muttered , without changing his attitude . 
Do not trouble yourself about me . 
I shall soon be well . 
Had you not better stay ? she asked , as he rose to put on his overcoat . 
I will call one of the servants and have him show you a room . 
We will say to morrow morning that you were taken ill , and nobody will wonder . 
No , no , he responded , energetically . 
I am perfectly strong now . 
But he still had to lean on a chair , and his face was deathly pale . 
Farewell , Miss Edith , he said and a tender sadness trembled in his voice . 
We shall probably never meet again . 
Do not speak so , she answered , seizing his hand . 
You will try to forget this , and you will still be great and happy . 
And when fortune shall again smile upon you , and and you will be content to be my friend , then we shall see each other as before . 
No , no , he broke forth , with a sudden hoarseness . 
Then Edith's measure of misery , too , seemed full . 
He was too generous a man to misinterpret the act so he whispered but once more Farewell , and hastened away . 
After that eventful December night , America was no more what it had been to Halfdan Bjerk . 
A strange torpidity had come over him every rising day gazed into his eyes with a fierce unmeaning glare . 
The noise of the street annoyed him and made him childishly fretful , and the solitude of his own room seemed still more dreary and depressing . 
He went mechanically through the daily routine of his duties as if the soul had been taken out of his work , and left his life all barrenness and desolation . 
Olson , who was now a junior partner in the firm of Remsen , Van Kirk and Co . 
, stood by him faithfully in these days of sorrow . 
That Edith might be the moving cause of Olson's kindness was a thought which , strangely enough , had never occurred to Halfdan . 
At last , when spring came , the vacancy of his mind was suddenly invaded with a strong desire to revisit his native land . 
Olson was running back and forth , attending to his baggage but he himself took no thought , and felt no more responsibility than if he had been a helpless child . 
His heart still clung to the place which held the corpse of his ruined life , as a man may cling to the spot which hides his beloved dead . 
About two weeks later Halfdan landed in Norway . 
He was half reluctant to leave the steamer , and the land of his birth excited no emotion in his breast . 
He was but conscious of a dim regret that he was so far away from Edith . 
Now that was all past . 
Perhaps he should never see Edith again . 
The next day he sauntered through the city , meeting some old friends , who all seemed changed and singularly uninteresting . 
They were all engaged or married , and could talk of nothing but matrimony , and their prospects of advancement in the Government service . 
All had the most absurd theories about American democracy , and indulged freely in prophecies of coming disasters but about their own government they had no opinion whatever . 
But as Christmas drew near , and the day wrestled feebly with the all conquering night , the old sorrow revived . 
In the darkness which now brooded over land and sea , the thoughts needed no longer be on guard against themselves they could roam far and wide as they listed . 
Thus ran his fancies day by day , and the night only lent a deeper intensity to the yearnings of the day . 
Edith Edith , the very name had a strange , potent fascination . 
Every thought whispered Edith , his pulse beat Edith , and his heart repeated the beloved name . 
It was his pulse beat , his heartbeat , his life beat . 
And one morning as he stood absently looking at his fingers against the light and they seemed strangely wan and transparent the thought at last took shape . 
It rushed upon him with such vehemence , that he could no more resist it . 
So he bade the clergyman good bye , gathered his few worldly goods together and set out for Bergen . 
There he found an English steamer which carried him to Hull , and a few weeks later , he was once more in New York . 
It was late one evening in January that a tug boat arrived and took the cabin passengers ashore . 
The moon sailed tranquilly over the deep blue dome of the sky , the stars traced their glittering paths of light from the zenith downward , and it was sharp , bitter cold . 
Northward over the river lay a great bank of cloud , dense , gray and massive , the spectre of the coming snow storm . 
There it lay so huge and fantastically human , ruffling itself up , as fowls do , in defense against the cold . 
There was the great jewel store where Edith had taken him so often to consult his taste whenever a friend of hers was to be married . 
Here , farther up the avenue , they had once been to a party , and he had danced for the first time in his life with Edith . 
Her dress had always seemed to him as something absolute and final , exalted above criticism , incapable of improvement . 
As I have said , Halfdan walked briskly up the avenue , and it was something after eleven when he reached the house which he sought . 
The great cloud bank in the north had then begun to expand and stretched its long misty arms eastward and westward over the heavens . 
The windows on the ground floor were dark , but the sleeping apartments in the upper stories were lighted . 
In Edith's room the inside shutters were closed , but one of the windows was a little down at the top . 
And as he stood gazing with tremulous happiness up to that window , a stanza from Heine which he and Edith had often read together , came into his head . 
I bring this waxen image , The image of my heart , Heal thou my bitter sorrow , And cure my deadly smart ! Translation , from Exotics . 
By J. F. C. C. L. Then came the thought that for him , too , as for the poor youth of Cologne , there was healing only in death . 
And still in this moment he was so near Edith , should see her perhaps , and the joy at this was stronger than all else , stronger even than death . 
So he sat down beside the steps of the mansion opposite , where there was some shelter from the wind , and waited patiently till Edith should close her win dow . 
He was cold , perhaps , but , if so , he hardly knew it , for the near joy of seeing her throbbed warmly in his veins . 
Once more her wondrous profile traced itself in strong relief against the outer gloom . 
There came a cry from the street below , a feeble involuntary one , but still distinctly audible . 
Edith peered anxiously out into the darkness , but the darkness had grown denser and she could see nothing . 
The window was fastened , the shutters closed , and the broad pathway of light which she had flung out upon the night had vanished . 
Halfdan closed his eyes trying to retain the happy vision . 
Yes , there she stood still , and there was a heavenly smile upon her lips ugh , he shivered the snow swept in a wild whirl up the street . 
He wrapped his plaid more closely about him , and strained his eyes to catch one more glimpse of the beloved Edith . 
There , she bent over him , touched him again , how cold her hands were the touch chilled him to the heart . 
But surely there was Edith again , how wonderful ! in a long snow white robe , grave and gracious , still with the wistful smile on her lips . 
See , she beckons to him with her hand , and he rises to follow , but something heavy clings to his feet and he cannot stir from the spot . 
He tries to cry for help , but he cannot , can only stretch out his hands to her , and feel very unhappy that he cannot follow her . 
But now she pauses in her flight , turns about , and he sees that she wears a myrtle garland in her hair like a bride . 
She comes toward him , her countenance all radiant with love and happiness , and she stoops down over him and speaks Come they are waiting for us . 
I will follow thee in life and in death , wherever thou goest . 
Come , repeats Edith , they have long been waiting . 
And he imagines he knows who they all are , although he has never heard of them , nor can he recall their names . 
But but , he stammers , I I am a foreigner It appeared then that for some reason this was an insurmountable objection . 
And Edith's happiness dies out of her beautiful face , and she turns away weeping . 
Edith , beloved ! Then she is once more at his side . 
Thou art no more a foreigner to me , beloved . 
Whatever thou art , I am . 
And she presses her lips to his it was the sweetest kiss of his life the kiss of death . 
Presently they were joined by her father , who had just finished his breakfast and was on his way to the office . 
A terrible foreboding seized her . 
She threw a shawl about her shoulders and rushed down stairs . 
In the hall she was met by her father , who was just entering , followed by four men , carrying something between them . 
She well knew what it was . 
The snow flakes which hung in his hair had touched him with their sudden age , as if to bridge the gulf between youth and death . 
And still he was beautiful the clear brow , the peaceful , happy indolence , the frozen smile which death had perpetuated . 
THE STORY OF AN OUTCAST . 
THERE was an ancient feud between the families and Bjarne Blakstad was not the man to make it up , neither was Hedin Ullern . 
So they looked askance at each other whenever they met on the highway , and the one took care not to cross the other's path . 
Now I have done my duty before God and men , thought Bjarne , and it is his turn to take the next step . 
The fellow is proud , said Hedin to himself , and he wants to show off his generosity . 
But I know the wolf by his skin , even if he has learned to bleat like a ewe lamb . 
What the feud really was about , they had both nearly forgotten . 
All they knew was that some thirty years ago there had been a quarrel between the pastor and the parish about the right of carrying arms to the church . 
And then Bjarne's father had been the spokesman of the parish , while Hedin's grandsire had been a staunch defender of the pastor . 
Bjarne was tall and grave , like the weather beaten fir trees in his mast forest . 
He had a large clean shaven face , narrow lips , and small fierce eyes . 
He seldom laughed , and when he did , his laugh seemed even fiercer than his frown . 
He loved everything that was old , in dress as well as in manners , took no newspapers , and regarded railroads and steamboats as inventions of the devil . 
Bjarne had married late in life , and his marriage had brought him two daughters , Brita and Grimhild . 
Hedin Ullern was looked upon as an upstart . 
Hedin was no unwelcome guest in the houses of gentlefolks , and he was often seen at the judge's and the pastor's omber parties . 
And for all this Bjarne Blakstad only hated him the more . 
They had one son , whose name was Halvard . 
Brita Blakstad , Bjarne's eldest daughter , was a maid whom it was a joy to look upon . 
Beware of that crown , child , her father had said to her , and wear it not before the time . 
There is not always blessing in the bridal silver . 
And she looked wonderingly up into his eyes and answered But it glitters , father and from that time forth they had named her Glitter Brita . 
And Glitter Brita grew up to be a fair and winsome maiden , and wherever she went the wooers flocked on her path . 
Bjarne would often sit for hours watching her , and a strange spring feeling would steal into his heart . 
He felt a father's pride in her stately growth and her rich womanly beauty . 
Ah ! he would say to himself , she has the pure blood in her veins and , as true as I live , the farm shall be hers . 
When Brita was twenty years old , however , her father thought that it was time for her to make her choice . 
There were many fine , brave lads in the valley , and , as Bjarne thought , Brita would have the good sense to choose the finest and the bravest . 
And Brita danced and laughed so that her hair flew around her and the silver brooches tinkled and rang on her bosom . 
Thus the winter passed and the summer drew near . 
In the country districts of Norway Saturday evening is regarded as the wooer's eve . 
In the middle of June , Brita went to the saeter with the cattle and her sister , Grimhild , remained at home to keep house on the farm . 
The saeter is a place in the mountains where the Norwegian peasants spend their summers pasturing their cattle . 
Every large farm has its own saeter , consisting of one or more chalets , hedged in by a fence of stone or planks . 
Her eyes wandered over the broad valley which was stretched out below , and she could see the red roofs of the Blakstad mansion peeping forth between the fir trees . 
Good evening , said Brita , and thanks for last meeting although she was not sure that she had ever seen him before . 
It was that bay mare , you know , stammered the man in a half apologetic tone , and shook the bridle , as if in further explanation . 
Ah , you have lost your mare , said the girl , and she could not help smiling at his helplessness and his awkward manner . 
And then since they took the colt away from her the milk has been troubling her , and she hasn't been quite like herself . 
I haven't seen her anywhere hereabouts , said Brita you may have to wander far , before you get on the track of her . 
Yes , that is very likely . 
And I am tired already . 
Slowly his mouth broadened into a smile but his smile had more of sadness than of joy in it . 
She had , from the moment she saw him , been possessed of a strangely patronizing feeling toward him . 
She could not but treat him as if he had been a girl or some person inferior to her in station . 
His gaze reminded her of that of an ox , but it had not only the ox's dullness , but also its simplicity and good nature . 
They sat talking on for a while about the weather , the cattle , and the prospects of the crops . 
What is your name ? she asked , at last . 
A sudden shock ran through her at the sound of that name in the next moment a deep blush stole over her countenance . 
And my name , she said , slowly , is Brita Bjarne's daughter Blakstad . 
She fixed her eyes upon him , as if to see what effect her words produced . 
But his features wore the same sad and placid expression and no line in his face seemed to betray either surprise or ill will . 
Then her sense of patronage grew into one of sympathy and pity . 
He must either be weak minded or very unhappy , thought she , and what right have I then to treat him harshly . 
She noticed the change and rejoiced . 
But for a long time he remained sitting on the grass , and strange thoughts passed through his head . 
He had quite forgotten his bay mare . 
The next evening when the milking was done , and the cattle were gathered within the saeter enclosure , Brita was again sitting on the large stone , looking out over the valley . 
She felt a kind of companionship with the people when she saw the smoke whirling up from their chimneys , and she could guess what they were going to have for supper . 
You have not found your bay mare yet ? she exclaimed , laughingly . 
And you think she is likely to be in this neighborhood ? I don't know , he answered and I don't care if she isn't . 
He spread his jacket on the grass , and sat down on the spot where he had sat the night before . 
Brita looked at him in surprise and remained silent she didn't know how to interpret this second visit . 
You are very handsome , he said , suddenly , with a gravity which left no doubt as to his sincerity . 
Do you think so ? she answered , with a merry laugh . 
He appeared to her almost a child , and it never entered her mind to feel offended . 
On the contrary , she was not sure but that she felt pleased . 
I have thought of you ever since yesterday , he continued , with the same imperturbable manner . 
And if you were not angry with me , I thought I would like to look at you once more . 
You are so different from other folks . 
God bless your foolish talk , cried Brita , with a fresh burst of merriment . 
No , indeed I am not angry with you I should just as soon think of being angry with with that calf , she added for want of another comparison . 
You think I don't know much , he stammered . 
The sad smile again settled on his countenance . 
A feeling of guilt sent the blood throbbing through her veins . 
She saw that she had done him injustice . 
He evidently possessed more sense , or at least a finer instinct , than she had given him credit for . 
Halvard , she faltered , if I have offended you , I assure you I didn't mean to do it and a thousand times I beg your pardon . 
You haven't offended me , Brita , answered he , blushing like a girl . 
You are the first one who doesn't make me feel that I am not so wise as other folks . 
He listened attentively while she spoke , gazing earnestly into her face , but never interrupting her . 
His manner was so simple and straightforward that what Brita probably would have found strange in another , she found perfectly natural in him . 
It was nearly midnight when they parted . 
She hardly slept at all that night , and she was half vexed with herself for the interest she took in this simple youth . 
The next morning her father came up to pay her a visit and to see how the flocks were thriving . 
She understood that it would be dangerous to say anything to him about Halvard , for she knew his temper and feared the result , if he should ever discover her secret . 
Therefore , she shunned an opportunity to talk with him , and only busied herself the more with the cattle and the cooking . 
Bjarne soon noticed her distraction , but , of course , never suspected the cause . 
She hastened to assure him that that was quite unnecessary the cattle boy who was there to help her was all the company she wanted . 
Toward evening , Bjarne Blakstad loaded his horses with buckets , filled with cheese and butter , and started for the valley . 
All day she had been walking about with a heavy heart there seemed to be something weighing on her breast , and she could not throw it off . 
She felt her purpose melt within her he looked so good and so unhappy . 
Then again came the thought of her father and of her own wrong , and the bitterness again revived . 
Go away , cried she , in a voice half reluctantly tender and half defiant . 
Go away , I say I don't want to see you any more . 
I will go to the end of the world if you wish it , he answered , with a strange firmness . 
He picked up his jacket which he had dropped on the ground , then turned slowly , gave her mother long look , an infinitely sad and hopeless one , and went . 
Her bosom heaved violently remorse , affection and filial duty wrestled desperately in her heart . 
No , no , she cried , why do you go ? I did not mean it so . 
I only wanted He paused and returned as deliberately as he had gone . 
And strange to say , this very isolation from her father made her cling only the more desperately to him . 
It seemed to her as if Bjarne had deliberately thrown her off that she herself had been the one who took the first step had hardly occurred to her . 
Alas , her grief was as irrational as her love . 
By what strange devious process of reasoning these convictions became settled in her mind , it is difficult to tell . 
It is sufficient to know that she was a woman and that she loved . 
She even knew herself that she was irrational , and this very sense drew her more hopelessly into the maze of the labyrinth from which she saw no escape . 
His visits were as regular as those of the sun . 
She knew that there was only a word of hers needed to banish him from her presence forever . 
And how many times did she not resolve to speak that word ? But the word was never spoken . 
At times a company of the lads from the valley would come to spend a merry evening at the saeter but she heeded them not , and they soon disappeared . 
Thus the summer went amid passing moods of joy and sorrow . 
She had long known that he loved her , and when at last his slow confession came , it added nothing to her happiness it only increased her fears for the future . 
They laid many plans together in those days but winter came as a surprise to both , the cattle were removed from the mountains , and they were again separated . 
Bjarne Blakstad looked long and wistfully at his daughter that morning , when he came to bring her home . 
She wore no more rings and brooches , and it was this which excited Bjarne's suspicion that everything was not right with her . 
Formerly he was displeased because she wore too many now he grumbled because she wore none . 
The winter was half gone and in all this time Brita had hardly once seen Halvard . 
She could not but believe that his father must have made some discovery , and that he was watched . 
In the mean time the black cloud thickened over her head for a secret gnawed at the very roots of her heart . 
It was a time of terrible suspense and suffering such as a man never knows , such as only a woman can endure . 
It was almost a relief when the cloud burst , and the storm broke loose , as presently it did . 
One Sunday , early in April , Bjarne did not return at the usual hour from church . 
His daughters waited in vain for him with the dinner , and at last began to grow uneasy . 
It was not his habit to keep irregular hours . 
There was a great excitement in the valley just then the America fever had broken out . 
The family feeling , too , has ever been strong in the Norseman's breast he lives for his children , and seems to live his life over again in them . 
It is his greatest pride to be able to trace his blood back into the days of Sverre and St . 
Olaf , and with the same confidence he expects to see his race spread into the future in the same soil where once it has struck root . 
Then comes the storm from the Western seas , wrestles with the sturdy trunk , and breaks it and the shattered branches fly to all the four corners of the heavens . 
No wonder , then , like a tree that has lost its crown , his strength is broken and he expects but to smoulder into the earth and die . 
But it was already eight o'clock and Bjarne was not yet to be seen . 
The night was dark and stormy a cold sleet fiercely lashed the window panes , and the wind roared in the chimney . 
Grimhild , the younger sister , ran restlessly out and in and slammed the doors after her . 
Brita sat tightly pressed up against the wall in the darkest corner of the room . 
Every time the wind shook the house she started up then again seated herself and shuddered . 
Dark forebodings filled her soul . 
At last , the clock had just struck ten , there was a noise heard in the outer hall . 
Grimhild sprang to the door and tore it open . 
A tall , stooping figure entered , and by the dress she at once recognized her father . 
Good God , cried she , and ran up to him . 
Go away , child , muttered he , in a voice that sounded strangely unfamiliar , and he pushed her roughly away . 
For a moment he stood still , then stalked up to the table , and , with a heavy thump , dropped down into a chair . 
There he remained with his elbows resting on his knees , and absently staring on the floor . 
His long hair hung in wet tangles down over his face , and the wrinkles about his mouth seemed deeper and fiercer than usual . 
Now and then he sighed , or gave vent to a deep groan . 
Tell me I did not see it , he broke forth , in a hoarse whisper , seizing her by the arm and thrusting the burning brand close up to her face . 
Tell me it is a lie a black , poisonous lie . 
She raised her eyes slowly to his and gazed steadfastly into his face . 
Ah , he continued in the same terrible voice , it was what I told them down there at the church a lie an infernal lie . 
And I drew blood blood , I say I did from the slanderer . 
Ha , ha , ha ! What a lusty sprawl that was ! The color came and departed from Brita's cheeks . 
And still she was strangely self possessed . 
She even wondered at her own calmness . 
Alas , she did not know that it was a calmness that is more terrible than pain , the corpse of a forlorn and hopeless heart . 
Then , almost imploringly , Open thy mouth , Brita , and tell thy father that thou art pure pure as the snow , child my own my beautiful child . 
There was a long and painful pause , in which the crackling of the brand , and the heavy breathing of the old man were the only sounds to break the silence . 
With every moment the hope died in Bjarne's bosom . 
His visage was fearful to behold . 
Terror and fierce indomitable hatred had grimly distorted his features , and his eyes burned like fire coals beneath his bushy brows . 
Harlot , he shrieked , harlot ! A cold gust of wind swept through the room . 
The windows shook , the doors flew open , as if touched by a strong invisible hand and the old man stood alone , holding the flickering brand above his head . 
It was after midnight , the wind had abated , but the snow still fell , thick and silent , burying paths and fences under its cold white mantle . 
Onward she fled onward and ever onward . 
And whither , she knew not . 
A cold numbness had chilled her senses , but still her feet drove her irresistibly onward . 
A dark current seemed to have seized her , she only felt that she was adrift , and she cared not whither it bore her . 
In spite of the stifling dullness which oppressed her , her body seemed as light as air . 
When she opened her eyes , she found herself lying in a comfortable bed , and a young woman with a kind motherly face was sitting at her side . 
It was all like a dream , and she made no effort to account for what appeared so strange and unaccountable . 
This was the second day since her arrival . 
They knew who she was , but had kept the doors locked and had told no one that she was there . 
She heard the story of the good woman without emotion it seemed an intolerable effort to think . 
That same evening there came a little boy with a bundle for her . 
She opened it and found therein the clothes she had left behind , and her brooches . 
She knew that it was her sister who had sent them then there was one who still thought of her with affection . 
And yet her first impulse was to send it all back , or to throw it into the ocean but she looked at her child and forbore . 
A week passed , and Brita recovered . 
Of Halvard she had heard nothing . 
For her fevered fancy had in these last days frequently beguiled her into similar visions . 
She often thought of him , but , strangely enough , no more with bitterness , but with pity . 
Had he been strong enough to be wicked , she could have hated him , but he was weak , and she pitied him . 
Huge clouds of fantastic shapes chased each other desperately along the horizon , and now and then the slender new moon glanced forth from the deep blue gulfs between . 
She chose a boat at random and was about to unmoor it , when she saw the figure of a man tread carefully over the stones and hesitatingly approach her . 
Brita , came in a whisper from the strand . 
Who's there ? It is I. Father knows it all , and he has nearly killed me and mother , too . 
Is that what you have come to tell me ? No , I would like to help you some . 
I have been trying to see you these many days . 
And he stepped close up to the boat . 
Thank you I need no help . 
But , Brita , implored he , I have sold my gun and my dog , and everything I had , and this is what I have got for it . 
He stretched out his hand and reached her a red handkerchief with something heavy bound up in a corner . 
She took it mechanically , held it in her hand for a moment , then flung it far out into the water . 
A smile of profound contempt and pity passed over her countenance . 
Farewell , Halvard , said she , calmly , and pushed the boat into the water . 
He understood what she meant , and stood for a moment wavering . 
Suddenly , he covered his face with his hands and burst into tears . 
It was a long and wearisome voyage . 
There was an old English clergyman on board , who collected curiosities to him she sold her rings and brooches , and thereby obtained more than sufficient money to pay her passage . 
She hardly spoke to any one except her child . 
Those of her fellow parishioners who knew her , and perhaps guessed her history , kept aloof from her , and she was grateful to them that they did . 
From morning till night , she sat in a corner between a pile of deck freight and the kitchen skylight , and gazed at her little boy who was lying in her lap . 
All her hopes , her future , and her life were in him . 
For herself , she had ceased to hope . 
I can give thee no fatherland , my child , she said to him . 
Thou shalt never know the name of him who gave thee life . 
Thou and I , we shall struggle together , and , as true as there is a God above , who sees us , He will not leave either of us to perish . 
But let us ask no questions , child , about that which is past . 
Thou shalt grow and be strong , and thy mother must grow with thee . 
During the third week of the voyage , the English clergyman baptized the boy , and she called him Thomas , after the day in the almanac on which he was born . 
He should never know that Norway had been his mother's home therefore she would give him no name which might betray his race . 
One morning , early in the month of June , they hailed land , and the great New World lay before them . 
Suffice it to say that at the end of the second month , she succeeded in obtaining service as milkmaid with a family in the neighborhood of New York . 
With the linguistic talent peculiar to her people , she soon learned the English language and even spoke it well . 
For the same reason she also exchanged her picturesque Norse costume for that of the people among whom she was living . 
Thus five years passed then there was a great rage for emigrating to the far West , and Brita , with many others , started for Chicago . 
And , indeed , she was sadly changed ! Her features had become sharper , and the firm lines about her mouth expressed severity , almost sternness . 
Her clear blue eyes seemed to have grown larger , and their glance betrayed secret , ever watchful care . 
Only her yellow hair had resisted the force of time and sorrow for it still fell in rich and wavy folds over a smooth white forehead . 
She was , indeed , half ashamed of it , and often took pains to force it into a sober , matronly hood . 
This Thomas , her son , was a strange child . 
She always took care to check him whenever he indulged in these imaginary flights , and he at last came to look upon them as something wrong and sinful . 
The boy , as he grew up , often strikingly reminded her of her father , as , indeed , he seemed to have inherited more from her own than from Halvard's race . 
Only the bright flaxen hair and his square , somewhat clumsy stature might have told him to be the latter's child . 
He had a hot temper , and often distressed his mother by his stubbornness and then there would come a great burst of repentance afterwards , which distressed her still more . 
For she was afraid it might be a sign of weakness . 
Strange to say , much as she loved this child , she seldom caressed him . 
It was a penance she had imposed upon herself to atone for her guilt . 
God had Himself sent her this perplexing doubt and it was her duty to bear His burden . 
In the mean while the years slipped by , and great changes were wrought in the world about her . 
The few hundred dollars which Brita had been able to save , during the first three years of her stay in Chicago , she had invested in a piece of land . 
The boy had since his eighth year attended the public school , and had made astonishing progress . 
Every day when school was out , she would meet him at the gate , take him by the hand and lead him home . 
If any of the other boys dared to make sport of her , or to tease him for his dependence upon her , it was sure to cost that boy a black eye . 
was fifteen years old he was offered a position as clerk in the office of a lumber merchant , and with his mother's consent he accepted it . 
He was a fine young lad now , large and well knit , and with a clear earnest countenance . 
One evening , when Thomas was in his nineteenth year , he returned from his office with a graver face than usual . 
His mother's quick eye immediately saw that something had agitated him , but she forbore to ask . 
Mother , said he at last , who is my father ? Is he dead or alive ? God is your father , my son , answered she , tremblingly . 
If you love me , ask me no more . 
I do love you , mother , he said , and gave her a grave look , in which she thought she detected a mingling of tenderness and reproach . 
And it shall be as you have said . 
He began pacing up and down the floor with his head bent and his hands on his back . 
It suddenly occurred to her that he was a grown man , and that she could no longer hold the same relation to him as his supporter and protector . 
Alas , thought she , if God will but let me remain his mother , I shall bless and thank Him . 
It was the first time this subject had been broached , and it gave rise to many a doubt and many a question in the anxious mother's mind . 
She began to suspect that her whole course with her son had been wrong from the very beginning . 
Fiercely she wrestled with God in prayer , until she thought that even God had deserted her . 
Thus months passed and years , and the constant care and anxiety began to affect her health . 
She grew pale and nervous , and the slightest noise would annoy her . 
In the mean while , her manner toward the young man had become strangely altered , and he soon noticed it , although he forbore to speak . 
She was scrupulously mindful of his comfort , anxiously anticipated his wants , and observed toward him an ever vigilant consideration , as if he had been her master instead of her son . 
When Thomas was twenty two years of age , he was offered a partnership in his employer's business , and with every year his prospects brightened . 
The sale of his mother's property brought him a very handsome little fortune , which enabled him to build a fine and comfortable house in one of the best portions of the city . 
At last , Thomas , too , began to urge her , until she finally yielded . 
It was on a bright morning in May that they both started for New York , and three days later they took the boat for Europe . 
What countries they were to visit they had hardly decided , but after a brief stay in England we find them again on a steamer bound for Norway . 
Warm and gentle as it is , June often comes to the fjord valleys of Norway with the voice and the strength of a giant . 
The glaciers totter and groan , as if in anger at their own weakness , and send huge avalanches of stones and ice down into the valleys . 
It was while the month was in this latter mood that Brita and her son entered once more the valley whence , twenty five years ago , they had fled . 
Even Thomas's breast was moved with vaguely sympathetic throbs , as this wondrous scene spread itself before him . 
They soon succeeded in hiring a farm house , about half an hour's walk from Blakstad , and , according to Brita's wish , established themselves there for the summer . 
Her conscience accused her of playing a false part , but for her son's sake she kept silent . 
There was Sabbath in the air the soft breath of summer , laden with the perfume of fresh leaves and field flowers , gently wafted into their faces . 
You are not well , mother , said the son . 
It was imprudent in me to allow you to exert yourself in this way . 
Let us sit down on this stone , answered she . 
I shall soon be better . 
Do not look so anxiously at me . 
Indeed , I am not sick . 
He spread his light summer coat on the stone and carefully seated her . 
She lifted her veil and raised her eyes to the large red roofed mansion , whose dark outlines drew themselves dimly on the dusky background of the pine forest . 
Thomas remained standing at her side and looked at her with anxiety and wonder . 
He knew that she had concealed many things from him , but whatever her reasons might be , he was confident that they were just and weighty . 
It was not for him to question her about what he might have no right to know . 
He suddenly stooped down , took her pale , thin face between his hands and kissed her . 
The long pent up emotion burst forth in a flood of tears she buried her face in her lap and wept long and silently . 
Then the church bells began to peal down in the valley , and the slow mighty sound floated calmly and solemnly up to them . 
Presently the church folk began to appear , and Brita raised her head and drew her veil down over her face . 
No one passed without greeting the strangers , and the women and maidens , according to old fashion , stopped and courtesied . 
At last , there came an old white haired man , leaning on the arm of a middle aged woman . 
His whole figure was bent forward , and he often stopped and drew his breath heavily . 
Oh , yes , yes , he said , ill a hoarse , broken voice , as he passed before them , age is gaining on me fast . 
I can't move about any more as of old . 
But to church I must this day . 
God help me ! I have done much wrong and need to pray for forgiveness . 
You had better sit down and rest , father , said the woman . 
Here is a stone , and the fine lady , I am sure , will allow a weak old man to sit down beside her . 
Thomas rose and made a sign to the old man to take his seat . 
O yes , yes , he went on murmuring , as if talking to himself . 
God help us all miserable sinners . 
He who hateth not father and mother and daughter is not worthy of me . 
O , yes yes God comfort us all . 
Help me up , Grimhild . 
I think I can move on again , now . 
Thanks to you , young man , said the peasant . 
And may God reward your kindness . 
And the two , father and daughter , moved on , slowly and laboriously , as they had come . 
Thomas stood following them with his eyes , until a low , half stifled moan suddenly called him to his mother's side . 
God forgive me thou must know it all . 
He sat down at her side and drew her closely up to him and she hid her face on his bosom . 
There was a long silence , only broken by the loud chirruping of the crickets . 
My son , she began at last , still hiding her face , thou art a child of guilt . 
That has been no secret to me , mother , answered he , gravely and tenderly , since I was old enough to know what guilt was . 
She quickly raised her head , and a look of amazement , of joyous surprise , shone through the tears that veiled her eyes . 
It was the very words of her own secret wish , and upon his lips they sounded like a blessed assurance , like a miraculous fulfillment of her motherly prayer . 
Still , another thing , my child , she went on in a more confident voice . 
This is thy native land , and the old man who was just sitting here at my side was my father . 
Late in the afternoon , Brita and her son were seen returning to the farm house . 
But her bodily strength had given out , and her limbs almost refused to support her . 
The strain upon her nerves and the constant effort had hitherto enabled her to keep up , but now , when that strain was removed , exhausted nature claimed its right . 
The next day she could not leave her bed , and with every hour her strength failed . 
A physician was sent for . 
He gave medicine , but no hope . 
He shook his head gravely , as he went , and both mother and son knew what that meant . 
Toward evening , Bjarne Blakstad was summoned , and came at once . 
Thomas left the room , as the old man entered , and what passed in that hour between father and daughter , only God knows . 
When the door was again opened , Brita's eyes shone with a strange brilliancy , and Bjarne lay on his knees before the bed , pressing her hand convulsively between both of his . 
This is my son , father , said she , in a language which her son did not understand and a faint smile of motherly pride and happiness flitted over her pale features . 
I would give him to thee in return for what thou hast lost but God has laid his future in another land . 
Bjarne rose , grasped his grandson's hand , and pressed it and two heavy tears ran down his furrowed cheeks . 
Alas , murmured he , my son , that we should meet thus . 
There they stood , bound together by the bonds of blood , but , alas , there lay a world between them . 
All night they sat together at the dying woman's bedside . 
Not a word was spoken . 
Toward morning , as the sun stole into the darkened chamber , Brita murmured their names , and they laid their hands in hers . 
God be praised , whispered she , scarcely audibly , I have found you both my father and my son . 
A deep pallor spread over her countenance . 
Two days later , when the body was laid out , Thomas stood alone in the room . 
The windows were covered with white sheets , and a subdued light fell upon the pale , lifeless countenance . 
Death had dealt gently with her , she seemed younger than before , and her light wavy hair fell softly over the white forehead . 
Then there came a middle aged man , with a dull eye , and a broad forehead , and timidly approached the lonely mourner . 
He walked on tip toe and his figure stooped heavily . 
For a long while he stood gazing at the dead body , then he knelt down at the foot of the coffin , and began to sob violently . 
At last he arose , took two steps toward the young man , paused again , and departed silently as he had come . 
Close under the wall of the little red painted church , they dug the grave and a week later her father was laid to rest at his daughter's side . 
But the fresh winds blew over the Atlantic and beckoned the son to new fields of labor in the great land of the future . 
RALPH GRIM was born a gentleman . 
He had the misfortune of coming into the world some ten years later than might reasonably have been expected . 
The only previous addition to the family had been a daughter , and she was then ten summers old . 
Ralph was a very feeble child , and could only with great difficulty be persuaded to retain his hold of the slender thread which bound him to existence . 
As Ralph grew up from infancy to childhood , he began to give decided promise of future distinction . 
He was fond of sitting down in a corner and sucking his thumb , which his mother interpreted as the sign of that brooding disposition peculiar to poets and men of lofty genius . 
At the age of five , he had become sole master in the house . 
On such occasions , the Colonel would hide his face behind his newspaper , and chuckle with delight it was evident that nature had intended his son for a great military commander . 
As soon as Ralph himself was old enough to have any thoughts about his future destiny , he made up his mind that he would like to be a pirate . 
The parents spent long evenings gravely discussing these indications of uncommon genius , and each interpreted them in his or her own way . 
He is not like any other child I ever knew , said the mother . 
To be sure , responded the father , earnestly . 
He is a most extraordinary child . 
The Colonel probably spoke the truth but he forgot to take into account that he had never read Robinson Crusoe . 
Of Ralph's school days there is but little to report , for , to tell the truth , he did not fancy going to school , as the discipline annoyed him . 
The day after his having entered the gymnasium , which was to prepare him for the Military Academy , the principal saw him waiting at the gate after his class had been dismissed . 
He approached him , and asked why he did not go home with the rest . 
I am waiting for the servant to carry my books , was the boy's answer . 
Give me your books , said the teacher . 
Colonel Grim and his wife , divining the teacher's intention , agreed that it was a great outrage , but they did not mention the matter to Ralph . 
Henceforth , however , the boy refused to be accompanied by his servant . 
A week later he was impudent to the teacher of gymnastics , who whipped him in return . 
At the age of sixteen , Ralph went to the capital with the intention of entering the Military Academy . 
He was a tall , handsome youth , slender of stature , and carried himself as erect as a candle . 
He had a light , clear complexion of almost feminine delicacy blonde , curly hair , which he always kept carefully brushed a low forehead , and a straight , finely modeled nose . 
There was an expression of extreme sensitiveness about the nostrils , and a look of indolence in the dark blue eyes . 
But the ensemble of his features was pleasing , his dress irreproachable , and his manners bore no trace of the awkward self consciousness peculiar to his age . 
Immediately on his arrival in the capital he hired a suite of rooms in the aristocratic part of the city , and furnished them rather expensively , but in excellent taste . 
He accordingly bought these articles at a curiosity shop . 
During the first weeks of his residence in the city he made some feeble efforts to perfect himself in mathematics , in which he suspected he was somewhat deficient . 
The time for the examination came the French ballet did not prove a good preparation Ralph failed . 
It quite shook him for the time , and he felt humiliated . 
It provoked him that everybody else should be so light hearted , when he was , or at least fancied himself , in trouble . 
The parlor grew intolerable he sought refuge in his bedroom . 
, and stared out upon the gray stone walls which on all sides enclosed the narrow court yard . 
The round stupid face of the moon stood tranquilly dozing like a great Limburger cheese suspended under the sky . 
Ralph , at least , could think of a no more fitting simile . 
She had been reading Ivanhoe all the afternoon , until the twilight had overtaken her quite unaware , and now she suddenly remembered that she had forgotten to write her German exercise . 
She lifted her face and saw a pair of sad , vacant eyes , gazing at her from the next window in the angle of the court . 
She was a little startled at first , but in the next moment she thought of her German exercise and took heart . 
Do you know German ? she said then immediately repented that she had said it . 
I do , was the answer . 
She took up her apron and began to twist it with an air of embarrassment . 
I didn't mean anything , she whispered , at last . 
I only wanted to know . 
That answer roused her he was evidently making sport of her . 
Well , then , if you do , you may write my exercise for me . 
I have marked the place in the book . 
And she flung her book over to his window , and he caught it on the edge of the sill , just as it was falling . 
You are a very strange girl , he remarked , turning over the leaves of the book , although it was too dark to read . 
How old are you ? I shall be fourteen six weeks before Christmas , answered she , frankly . 
No , indeed , cried she , vehemently . 
You needn't excuse me at all . 
If you don't want to write my exercise , you may send the book back again . 
I am very sorry I spoke to you , and I shall never do it again . 
But you will not get the book back again without the exercise , replied he , quietly . 
The girl stood long looking after him , hoping that he would return . 
Then , with a great burst of repentance , she hid her face in her lap , and began to cry . 
Oh , dear , I didn't mean to be rude , she sobbed . 
But it was Ivanhoe and Rebecca who upset me . 
The next morning she was up before daylight , and waited for two long hours in great suspense before the curtain of his window was raised . 
He greeted her politely threw a hasty glance around the court to see if he was observed , and then tossed her book dexterously over into her hands . 
I have pinned the written exercise to the fly leaf , he said . 
You will probably have time to copy it before breakfast . 
I am ever so much obliged to you , she managed to stammer . 
He looked so tall and handsome , and grown up , and her remorse stuck in her throat , and threatened to choke her . 
She had taken him for a boy as he sat there in his window the evening before . 
By the way , what is your name ? he asked , carelessly , as he turned to go . 
Well , my dear Bertha , I am happy to have made your acquaintance . 
And he again made her a polite bow , and entered his parlor . 
How provokingly familiar he is , thought she but no one can deny that he is handsome . 
The bright roguish face of the young girl haunted Ralph during the whole next week . 
He had been in love at least ten times before , of course but , like most boys , with young ladies far older than himself . 
He found himself frequently glancing over to her window in the hope of catching another glimpse of her face but the curtain was always drawn down , and Bertha remained invisible . 
During the second week , however , she relented , and they had many a pleasant chat together . 
He now volunteered to write all her exercises , and she made no objections . 
, and that she was going to school in the city , and boarded with an old lady who kept a pension in the house adjoining the one in which he lived . 
One day in the autumn Ralph was surprised by the sudden arrival of his father , and the fact of his failure in the examination could no longer be kept a secret . 
He at last felt satisfied that it was envy of his own greatness and rapid advancement which had induced the rascals to take vengeance on his son . 
Ralph reluctantly followed his father back to the country town where the latter was stationed , and the fair haired Bertha vanished from his horizon . 
His mother's wish now prevailed , and he began , in his own easy way , to prepare himself for the University . 
He took quite a fancy , however , to the ode in Horace ending with the lines Dulce ridentem , Dulce loquentem , Lalagen amabo . 
And in his thought he substituted for Lalage the fair haired Bertha , quite regardless of the requirements of the metre . 
To make a long story short , three years later Ralph returned to the capital , and , after having worn out several tutors , actually succeeded in entering the University . 
He was certainly not the man to be sentimental over the loss of a young girl whom , moreover , he had only known for a few weeks . 
Nevertheless , he thought of her at odd times , but not enough to disturb his pleasure . 
The standing of his family , his own handsome appearance , and his immaculate linen opened to him the best houses of the city , and he became a great favorite in society . 
Two months passed , and then came the great annual ball which the students give at the opening of the second semester . 
Ralph was a man of importance that evening first , because he belonged to a great family secondly , because he was the handsomest man of his year . 
, and a badge of colored ribbons in his button hole . 
The ball was a brilliant affair , and everybody was in excellent spirits , especially the ladies . 
Ralph danced incessantly , twirled his soft mustache , and uttered amiable platitudes . 
But when he looked once more the dark blue eyes were gone , and his unruly heart went on hammering against his side . 
He laid his hand on his breast and glanced furtively at his fair neighbor , but she looked happy and unconcerned , for the flavor of the ice cream was delicious . 
It seemed an endless meal , but , when it was done , Ralph rose , led his partner back to the ball room , and hastily excused himself . 
In another moment he was at Bertha's side . 
You must have been purposely hiding yourself , Miss Bertha , said he , when the usual greetings were exchanged . 
I have not caught a glimpse of you all this evening , until a few moments ago . 
But I have seen you all the while , answered the girl , frankly . 
I knew you at once as I entered the hall . 
She raised her large grave eyes to his , as if questioning his sincerity but she made no answer . 
Good gracious ! thought Ralph . 
She takes things terribly in earnest . 
You look so serious , Miss Bertha , said he , after a moment's pause . 
I confess I don't find it quite easy to identify this grave young lady with my merry friend of three years ago . 
In other words , you are disappointed at not finding me the same as I used to be . 
No , not exactly that but Ralph paused and looked puzzled . 
There was something in the earnestness of her manner which made a facetious compliment seem grossly inappropriate , and in the moment no other escape suggested itself . 
But what ? demanded Bertha , mercilessly . 
Have you ever lost an old friend ? asked he , abruptly . 
Yes how so ? Then , answered he , while his features lighted up with a happy inspiration then you will appreciate my situation . 
I fondly cherished my old picture of you in my memory . 
Now I have lost it , and I cannot help regretting the loss . 
I do not mean , however , to imply that this new acquaintance this second edition of yourself , so to speak will prove less interesting . 
She again sent him a grave , questioning look , and began to gaze intently upon the stone in her bracelet . 
I suppose you will laugh at me , began she , while a sudden blush flitted over her countenance . 
I feel so dreadfully forlorn . 
I hardly know anybody here except my cousin , who invited me , and I hardly think I know him either . 
Come , let us make the plunge together . 
He offered her his arm , and she arose , somewhat hesitatingly , and followed . 
If that is the case , I should prefer to be led back to my seat . 
What a base imputation ! cried Ralph . 
There was something so charmingly na i ive in this self depreciation something so altogether novel in his experience , and , he could not help adding , just a little bit countrified . 
Never fear , answered he , quickly reversing his step , and whirling with many a capricious turn away among the thronging couples . 
Some weeks later Colonel Grim received an appointment at the fortress of Aggershuus , and immediately took up his residence in the capital . 
He saw that his son cut a fine figure in the highest circles of society , and expressed his gratification in the most emphatic terms . 
But the Colonel suspected nothing , and it was well for the peace of the family that he did not . 
At last it became too intolerable , he could endure it no longer . 
Let it make or break , certainty , at all risks , was at least preferable to this sickening suspense . 
That he loved her , he could no longer doubt let his parents foam and fret as much as they pleased for once he was going to stand on his own legs . 
And in the end , he thought , they would have to yield , for they had no son but him . 
Bertha was going to return to her home on the sea coast in a week . 
Ralph stood in the little low ceiled parlor , as she imagined , to bid her good bye . 
Her words had kindled a vague hope in his breast , but in their very frankness and friendly regard there was something which slew the hope they had begotten . 
He held her hand in his , and her large confiding eyes shone with an emotion which was beautiful , but was yet not love . 
She dropped his hand , and stood for a moment silent . 
I am sorry that it should have come to this , Mr. Grim , said she , visibly struggling for calmness . 
And I am perhaps more to blame than you . 
Blame , muttered he , why are you to blame ? Because I do not love you although I sometimes feared that this might come . 
But then again I persuaded myself that it could not be so . 
He took a step toward the door , laid his hand on the knob , and gazed down before him . 
You use strong language , answered she , hesitatingly but there is truth in what you say . 
Again there was a long pause , in which the ticking of the old parlor clock grew louder and louder . 
Ralph stood transfixed , gazing at her with open mouth he felt a kind of stupid fright , as if some one had suddenly seized him by the shoulders and shaken him violently . 
He tried vainly to remove his eyes from Bertha . 
She held him as by a powerful spell . 
He saw that her face was lighted with an altogether new beauty he noticed the deep glow upon her cheek , the brilliancy of her eye , the slight quiver of her lip . 
But he saw all this as one sees things in a half trance , without attempting to account for them the door between his soul and his senses was closed . 
I know that I have been bold in speaking to you in this way , she said at last , seating herself in a chair at the window . 
But it was yourself who asked me . 
And I have felt all the time that I should have to tell you this before we parted . 
Ralph carefully avoided all the fashionable thoroughfares he felt degraded before himself , and he had an idea that every man could read his humiliation in his countenance . 
But this sort of reasoning he knew to he both weak and contemptible , and his better self soon rose in loud rebellion . 
After all , he muttered , in the main thing she was right . 
As Ralph turned the corner of a street , he heard himself hailed from the other sidewalk by a chorus of merry voices . 
, in the name of this illustrious company , allow me to salute you . 
But why the deuce what is the matter with you ? If you have the Katzenjammer , soda water is the thing . 
Come along , it's my treat ! Katzenjammer is the sensation a man has the morning after a carousal . 
The students instantly thronged around Ralph , who stood distractedly swinging his cane and smiling idiotically . 
I am not quite well , said he leave me alone . 
No , to be sure , you don't look well , cried a jolly youth , against whom Bertha had frequently warned him but a glass of sherry will soon restore you . 
It would be highly immoral to leave you in this condition without taking care of you . 
Ralph again vainly tried to remonstrate but the end was , that he reluctantly followed . 
He had always been a conspicuous figure in the student world but that night he astonished his friends by his eloquence , his reckless humor , and his capacity for drinking . 
He made a speech for Woman , which bristled with wit , cynicism , and sarcastic epigrams . 
The others loudly applauded this proposal , and Ralph accepted the wager . 
The letters were written on the spot , and immediately dispatched . 
Toward morning , the merry carousal broke up , and Ralph was conducted in triumph to his home . 
Two days later , Ralph again knocked on Bertha's door . 
It is done , he said , as he seated himself opposite her . 
Going ! cried she , startled at his unusual appearance . 
How , where ? To America . 
I have followed your advice , you see . 
I have cut off the last bridge behind me . 
But , Ralph , she exclaimed , in a voice of alarm . 
Something dreadful must have happened . 
Tell me quick I must know it . 
No nothing dreadful , muttered he , smiling bitterly . 
I have made a little scandal , that is all . 
My father told me to day to go to the devil , if I chose , and my mother gave me five hundred dollars to help me along on the way . 
If you wish to know , here is the explanation . 
And he pulled from his pocket six perfumed and carefully folded notes , and threw them into her lap . 
Do you wish me to read them ? she asked , with growing surprise . 
Why not ? She hastily opened one note after the other , and read . 
I proposed to them all , and , you see , they all accepted me . 
I received all these letters to day . 
I only wished to know whether the whole world regarded me as such a worthless scamp as you told me I was . 
She did not answer , but sat mutely staring at him , fiercely crumpling a rose colored note in her hand . 
He began to feel uncomfortable under her gaze , and threw himself about uneasily in his chair . 
Well , said he , at length , rising , I suppose there is nothing more . 
One moment , Mr. Grim , demanded she , sternly . 
And what convinced you that I was selfish , if I may ask ? What convinced me ? repeated she , in a tone of inexpressible contempt . 
In a certain sense , yes because to gratify a mere momentary wish is hardly doing one's self good . 
Then I have , at all events , followed the Biblical precept , and treated my neighbor very much as I treat myself . 
The hard , benumbed look in Ralph's face thawed in the warmth of her presence , and her words , though stern , touched a secret spring in his heart . 
The fervor of his words touched her , for she felt that they were sincere . 
Perhaps he read in her eyes the unspoken wish . 
He seized her hand , and his words fell with a warm and alluring cadence upon her ear . 
It would be unjust to yourself , and perhaps also to me for a sacred promise is a terrible thing , Ralph . 
Let us both remain free and , if you return and still love me , then come , and I shall receive you and listen to you . 
You know best , he murmured . 
Let it be as you have said . 
He arose , took her face between his hands , gazed long and tenderly into her eyes , pressed a kiss upon her forehead , and hastened away . 
That night Ralph boarded the steamer for Hull , and three weeks later landed in New York . 
The first three months of Ralph's sojourn in America were spent in vain attempts to obtain a situation . 
Day after day he walked down Broadway , calling at various places of business and night after night he returned to his cheer less room with a faint heart and declining spirits . 
It was , after all , a more serious thing than he had imagined , to cut the cable which binds one to the land of one's birth . 
Then the wolf was often roused within him , and he felt a momentary wild desire to become what the people here evidently believed him to be . 
Many a night he sauntered irresolutely about the gambling places in obscure streets , and the glare of light , the rude shouts and clamors in the same moment repelled and attracted him . 
If he went to the devil , who would care ? His father had himself pointed out the way to him and nobody could blame him if he followed the advice . 
One day , as Ralph was raking the gravel walks in the garden , his employer's daughter , a young lady of seventeen , came out and spoke to him . 
His culture and refinement of manner struck her with wonder , and she asked him to tell her his history but then he suddenly grew very grave , and she forbore pressing him . 
From that time she attached a kind of romantic interest to him , and finally induced her father to obtain him a situation that would be more to his taste . 
And , before winter came , Ralph saw the dawn of a new future glimmering before him . 
He had wrestled bravely with fate , and had once more gained a victory . 
He began the career in which success and distinction awaited him , as proof reader on a newspaper in the city . 
He had fortunately been familiar with the English language before he left home , and by the strength of his will he conquered all difficulties . 
He felt in himself a stronger and fuller manhood , as if the great arteries of the vast universal world life pulsed in his own being . 
Society had flung its doors open to him , and what was more , he had found some warm friends , in whose houses he could come and go at pleasure . 
He felt a strange fascination in the presence of these women , and the conviction grew upon him that their type of womanhood was superior to any he had hitherto known . 
The mountain peaks rose cold and blue in the distance . 
Many half thoughts grazed his mind , and ere the first had taken shape , the second , and the third came and chased it away . 
Onward he hastened , while his heart throbbed with the quickening tempo of mingled expectation and fear . 
Ralph concluded , from his increasing agitation , that he must be very near Bertha's home . 
He stopped and looked around him . 
He sprang up on the road , not crossing , however , her line of vision , and approached her noiselessly from behind . 
You came so suddenly , she murmured . 
I was a pretty thick skinned animal in those days , Bertha . 
You said the right word at the right moment you gave me a hold and a good piece of advice , which my own ingenuity would never have suggested to me . 
I will not thank you , because , in so grave a case as this , spoken thanks sound like a mere mockery . 
Whatever I am , Bertha , and whatever I may hope to be , I owe it all to that hour . 
On their way to the house they talked together of many things , but in a guarded , cautious fashion , and without the cheerful abandonment of former years . 
Ralph , too , was loath to analyze the impression his old love made upon him . 
But , alas ! though the heart be warm and generous , the eye is a merciless critic . 
He received his guest with dignified reserve , and Ralph thought he detected in his eyes a lurking look of distrust . 
I know your errand , that look seemed to say , but you had better give it up at once . 
It will be of no use for you to try . 
As he came down to breakfast the next morning , he found Bertha sitting at the window , engaged in hemming what appeared to be a rough kitchen towel . 
She bent eagerly over her work , and only a vivid flush upon her cheek told him that she had noticed his coming . 
He took a chair , seated himself opposite her , and bade her good morning . 
She raised her head , and showed him a sweet , troubled countenance , which the early sunlight illumined with a high spiritual beauty . 
It was easy for me to give you daring advice , then , Ralph , she said . 
Like most school girls , I thought that life was a great and glorious thing , and that happiness was a fruit which hung within reach of every hand . 
My thoughts have moved so long within the narrow circle of these mountains that they have lost their youthful elasticity , and can no more rise above them . 
At the dinner table , her father again sat eyeing his guest with that same cold look of distrust and suspicion . 
And when the meal was at an end , he rose abruptly and called his daughter into another room . 
Presently Ralph heard his angry voice resounding through the house , interrupted now and then by a woman's sobs , and a subdued , passionate pleading . 
When Bertha again entered the room , her eyes were very red , and he saw that she had been weeping . 
She threw a shawl over her shoulders , beckoned to him with her hand , and he arose and followed her . 
She led the way silently until they reached a thick copse of birch and alder near the strand . 
She dropped down upon a bench between two trees , and he took his seat at her side . 
And YOU , Bertha ? Well yes I wish it too . 
She saw the painful shock which her words gave him , and she strove hard to speak . 
Her lips trembled , her eyes became suffused with tears , which grew and grew , but never fell she could not utter a word . 
Well , Bertha , answered he , with a little quiver in his voice , if you , too , wish me to go , I shall not tarry . 
He turned sharply , and , before he knew it , she lay sobbing upon his breast . 
Ralph , she murmured , while the tears almost choked her words , I could not have you leave me thus . 
Ah , no , you do not love me , she whispered , sadly . 
But you cannot disguise yourself , Ralph , and I saw from the first moment that you loved me no more . 
Do not be such an unreasonable child , he remonstrated , feebly . 
A sudden shudder seemed to shake her whole frame , and she drew herself more tightly up to him . 
Ah , no , she continued , after a while , sinking back upon her seat . 
It is a hopeless thing to compel a reluctant heart . 
I will accept no sacrifice from you . 
But , Bertha , exclaimed he , looking mournfully at her , it is not true when you say that I owe you nothing . 
Alas ! it is a sad tale , but it is true . 
He read that look aright , and it pierced him like a sharp sword . 
Toward evening , Ralph was sitting in an open boat , listening to the measured oar strokes of the boatmen who were rowing him out to the nearest stopping place of the steamer . 
The mountains lifted their great placid heads up among the sun bathed clouds , and the fjord opened its cool depths as if to make room for their vast reflections . 
And in that hour he looked fearlessly into the gulf which separates the New World from the Old . 
He had hoped to bridge it but , alas ! it cannot be bridged . 
I. THE steamer which as far back as passed every week on its northward way up along the coast of Norway , was of a very sociable turn of mind . 
It seemed , on the whole , from an aesthetic point of view , an objectionable phenomenon a blot upon the perfect summer day . 
it was regarded in a very different light . 
, and had with them boarded the steamer to receive his nephew , Arnfinn Vording , who was returning from the university for his summer vacation . 
The parsonage lay snugly nestled at the end of the bay , shining contentedly through the green foliage from a multitude of small sun smitten windows . 
Her ridicule was always very good natured , to be sure , but therefore no less annoying . 
But what of your friend , Arnfinn ? exclaimed Inga , as she ran up the stairs of the pier . 
He of whom you have written so much . 
I have been busy all the morning making the blue guest chamber ready for him . 
Ah , yes , you are right . 
Happiness is too often selfish . 
But tell me only why he didn't come and I'll release you . 
Ah ! And when ? That I don't know . 
He preferred to take the journey on foot , and he may be here at almost any time . 
But , as I have told you , he is very uncertain . 
He may be as likely to turn up at the North Pole as at the Gran Parsonage . 
You don't know how curious I am to see him . 
And Inga walked on in silence under the sunny birches which grew along the road , trying vainly to picture to herself this strange phenomenon of a man . 
I brought his book , remarked Arnfinn , making a gigantic effort to be generous , for he felt dim stirrings of jealousy within him . 
If you care to read it , I think it will explain him to you better than anything I could say . 
The Oddsons were certainly a happy family though not by any means a harmonious one . 
It was the third Sunday after Arnfinn's return . 
It was Inga's week in the kitchen , therefore her sister was Arnfinn's companion . 
As they reached the crest of the Hood , Augusta seated herself on a flat bowlder , and the young student flung himself on a patch of greensward at her feet . 
I thought you were looking at the sun , Arnfinn , answered she , smiling reluctantly . 
And so I am , cousin , laughed he , with an other emphatic slap of his boot . 
That compliment is rather stale . 
But the opportunity was too tempting . 
Never mind , I will excuse you from further efforts . 
Turn around and notice that wonderful purple halo which is hovering over the forests below . 
Isn't it glorious ? No , don't let us be solemn , pray . 
The sun I have seen a thousand times before , but you I have seen very seldom of late . 
Somehow , since I returned this time , you seem to keep me at a distance . 
You no longer confide to me your great plans for the abolishment of war , and the improvement of mankind generally . 
Yes , I know you think me flippant and boyish , retorted he , with sudden energy , and tossing a stone down into the gulf below . 
But , by the way , my friend Strand , if he ever comes , would be just the man for you . 
Your friend is a great man , said the girl , earnestly . 
I have read his book on The Wading Birds of the Norwegian Highlands , and none but a great man could have written it . 
He is an odd stick , but , for all that , a capital fellow and I have no doubt you would get on admirably with him . 
Why don't you speak to the pastor , and have him arrested ? said Arnfinn , impatient of Hans's long winded recital . 
No , no , say nothing to father , demanded Augusta , eagerly . 
The moon came up pale and mist like over the eastern mountain ridges , struggled for a few brief moments feebly with the sunlight , and then vanished . 
It is strange , said Arnfinn , how everything reminds me of Strand to night . 
What gloriously absurd apostrophes to the moon he could make ! I have not told you , cousin , of a very singular gift which he possesses . 
How delightful , cried Augusta , with sudden animation . 
What a glorious man your friend must be ! Because the snipes and the wild ducks like him ? You seem to have greater confidence in their judgment than in mine . 
Of course I have at least as long as you persist in joking . 
I suppose you know that his little book has been translated into French , and rewarded with the gold medal of the Academy . 
Hush ! What is that ? Augusta sprang up , and held her hand to her ear . 
Some love lorn mountain cock playing yonder in the pine copse , suggested Arnfinn , amused at his cousin's eagerness . 
You silly boy ! Don't you know the mountain cock never plays except at sunrise ? He would have a sorry time of it now , then , when there IS no sunrise . 
And so he has he does not play except in early spring . 
The noise , at first faint , now grew louder . 
There was a whizzing of wing beats in the air two large birds swept over their heads and struck down into the copse whence the sound had issued . 
This is indeed a most singular thing , said Augusta , under her breath , and with wide eyed wonder . 
Let us go nearer , and see what it can be . 
I am sure I can go if you can , responded Arnfinn , not any too eagerly . 
Give me your hand , and we can climb the better . 
Augusta stole with soundless tread through the transparent gloom which lingered under those huge black crowns , and Arnfinn followed impatiently after . 
Suddenly she motioned to him to stand still , and herself bent forward in an attitude of surprise and eager observation . 
Again there was a frightened flutter over head , a shrill anxious whistle rose in the air , and all was silence . 
Augusta had stepped on a dry branch it had broken under her weight hence the sudden confusion and flight . 
The unknown man had sprung up , and his eye , after a moment's search , had found the dark , beautiful face peering forth behind the red fir trunk . 
Pardon me , I have not introduced you . 
This is my cousin , Miss Oddson , and this is my miraculous friend , the world renowned author , vagrant , and naturalist , Mr. Marcus Strand . 
But , whatever you do , have the goodness to release Augusta's hand . 
Suppose I help you carry your knapsack , said Arnfinn , who was flitting about like a small nimble spaniel trying to make friends with some large , good natured Newfoundland . 
I am afraid you would rue your bargain if I accepted it . 
I suppose you have a great many stuffed birds at home , remarked the girl , looking with self forgetful admiration at the large brawny figure . 
No , I have hardly any , answered he , seating himself on the ground , and pulling a thick note book from his pocket . 
Their anatomical and physiological peculiarities have been studied by others , and volumes have been written about them . 
It is their psychological traits , ii you will allow the expression , which interest me , and those I can only get at while they are alive . 
How delightful ! Some minutes later they were all on their way to the Parsonage . 
She had no suspicion but that her enthusiasm had been all for the sunset . 
, that , with her habitual disregard of appearances , she would have scorned the notion that their intercourse had any ultimate end beyond that of mutual pleasure and instruction . 
It was early in the morning in the third week of Strand's stay at the Parsonage . 
A heavy dew had fallen during the night , and each tiny grass blade glistened in the sun , bending under the weight of its liquid diamond . 
Ah , yes , you poor little sickly thing ! she heard him mutter . 
Don't you make such an ado now . 
You shall soon be quite well , if you will only mind what I tell you . 
Stop , stop ! Take it easy . 
It is all for your own good , you know . 
If you had only been prudent , and not stepped on your lame leg , you might have been spared this affliction . 
But , after all , it was not your fault it was that foolish little mother of yours . 
She will remember now that a skein of hemp thread is not the thing to line her nest with . 
If she doesn't , you may tell her that it was I who said so . 
She gave a little cry , the tree shook violently , and Strand was at her side . 
It seemed to her that she had ungenerously intruded upon his privacy , watching him , while he thought himself unobserved . 
, and he looked pityingly at it while he spoke . 
The mother of this little linnet , he said , smiling , did what many foolish young mothers are apt to do . 
She took upon her the responsibility of raising offspring without having acquired the necessary knowledge of housekeeping . 
Only notice this scar , if you please , Miss Oddson , and you may imagine what the poor thing must have suffered . 
Augusta gave a start she timidly raised her eyes , and saw Strand's grave gaze fixed upon her . 
She felt as if some intolerable spell had come over her , and , as her agitation increased , her power of speech seemed utterly to desert her . 
Ah , you have not been listening to me ? said Strand , in a tone of wondering inquiry . 
Pardon me for presuming to believe that my little invalid could be as interesting to you as he is to me . 
Mr. Strand , stammered the girl , while the invisible tears came near choking her voice . 
Mr. Strand I didn't mean really She knew that if she said another word she should burst into tears . 
With a violent effort , she gathered up her wrapper , which somehow had got unbuttoned at the neck , and , with heedlessly hurrying steps , darted away toward the house . 
Strand stood looking after her , quite unmindful of his feathered patient , which flew chirping about him in the grass . 
Two hours later Arnfinn found him sitting under the birches with his hands clasped over the top of his head , and his surgical instruments scattered on the ground around him . 
I wonder what is up between Strand and Augusta ? said Arnfinn to his cousin Inga . 
Arnfinn , after a minute's silence , repeated his remark , whereupon his fair cousin wrenched his cane out of his hand , and held it threateningly over his head . 
Will you be a good boy and listen ? she exclaimed , playfully emphasizing each word with a light rap on his curly pate . 
Ouch ! that hurts , cried Arnfinn , and dodged . 
It was meant to hurt , replied Inga , with mock severity , and returned to Copperfield . 
Joke ! Indeed I am not joking . 
I wish to heaven that I were . 
You are not angry with me , are you ? And if you will only promise me not to tell , I have something here which I should like to show you . 
With a resolute movement , she brushed her tears away , bent eagerly forward , and , in the next moment , her face was all expectancy and animation . 
His pulse is to day , for the first time , normal . 
He is beginning to step on the injured leg without apparent pain . 
A. M. Miss Augusta's eyes have a strange , lustrous brilliancy whenever she speaks of subjects which seem to agitate the depths of her being . 
TO be noticed in future , how particular emotions affect the eye . 
P. M. I met a plover on the beach this afternoon . 
By imitating his cry , I induced him to come within a few feet of me . 
The plover , as his cry indicates , is a very melancholy bird . 
In fact I believe the melancholy temperament to be prevailing among the wading birds , as the phlegmatic among birds of prey . 
The singing birds are choleric or sanguine . 
Tease a thrush , or even a lark , and you will soon be convinced . 
A snipe , or plover , as far as my experience goes , seldom shows anger you cannot tease them . 
To be considered , how far the voice of a bird may be indicative of its temperament . 
August I am in a most singular state . 
My pulse beats , which is a most unheard of thing for me , as my pulse is naturally full and slow . 
And , strangely enough , I do not feel at all unwell . 
On the contrary , my physical well being is rather heightened than otherwise . 
The life of a whole week is crowded into a day , and that of a day into an hour . 
Inga , who , at several points of this narrative , had been struggling hard to preserve her gravity , here burst into a ringing laugh . 
That is what I call scientific love making , said Arnfinn , looking up from the book with an expression of subdued amusement . 
But Arnfinn , cried the girl , while the laughter quickly died out of her face , does Mr. Strand know that you are reading this ? To be sure he does . 
And that is just what to my mind makes the situation so excessively comical . 
He has himself no suspicion that this book contains anything but scientific notes . 
He appears to prefer the empiric method in love as in philosophy . 
I verily believe that he is innocently experimenting with himself , with a view to making some great physiological discovery . 
And so he will , perhaps , rejoined the girl , the mixture of gayety and grave solicitude making her face , as her cousin thought , particularly charming . 
Only not a physiological , but possibly a psychological one , remarked Arnfinn . 
Here is something rich August Miss Augusta once said something about the possibility of animals being immortal . 
Her eyes shone with a beautiful animation as she spoke . 
I am longing to continue the subject with her . 
It haunts me the whole day long . 
There may be more in the idea than appears to a superficial observer . 
Oh , how charmingly he understands how to deceive himself , cried Inga . 
Merely a quid pro quo , said Arnfinn . 
I know what I shall do ! And so do I. Won't you tell me , please ? No. Then I sha'n't tell you either . 
, each to ponder on some formidable plot for the reconciliation of the estranged lovers . 
All his friend's entreaties were in vain he would and must go . 
Strand was an exasperatingly head strong fellow , and persuasions never prevailed with him . 
Inexperienced as he was , he could see no reason why she should avoid him , if she did not hate him . 
They sat talking until mid night , each entangling himself in those passionate paradoxes and contradictions peculiar to passionate and impulsive youth . 
His knapsack was strapped over his shoulders , his long staff was in his hand , and there was an expression of conscious martyrdom in his features . 
The figure advanced to the bed , extended a broad , sun burned hand , and a deep bass voice was heard to say Good bye , brother . 
But the sunshine drove the dust in a dumb , confused dance through the room . 
Some four hours later , Arnfinn woke up with a vague feeling as if some great calamity had happened he was not sure but that he had slept a fortnight or more . 
He dressed with a sleepy , reckless haste , being but dimly conscious of the logic of the various processes of ablution which he underwent . 
He hurried up to Strand's room , but , as he had expected , found it empty . 
Now gloom had , in some unaccountable fashion , obscured the common atmosphere . 
affected a half scientific interest in their clamorous pursuits . 
But from the rocks close by came a long melancholy whistle like that of a bird in distress , and the girl rose and hastened with eager steps toward the spot . 
She climbed up on a stone , fringed all around with green slimy sea weeds , in order to gain a wider view of the beach . 
Then suddenly some huge figure started up between the rocks at her feet she gave a little scream , her foot slipped , and in the next moment she lay in Strand's arms . 
He offered no apology , but silently carried her over the slippery stones , and deposited her tenderly upon the smooth white sand . 
There it occurred to her that his attention was quite needless , but at the moment she was too startled to make any remonstrance . 
But how in the world , Mr. Strand , did you come here ? she managed at last to stammer . 
We all thought that you had gone away . 
I hardly know myself , said Strand , in a beseeching undertone , quite different from his usual confident bass . 
I only know that that I was very wretched , and that I had to come back . 
The broad mountain guarded valley , flooded now to the brim with a soft misty light , spread out about them , and filled them with a delicious sense of security . 
The fjord lifted its grave gaze toward the sky , and deepened responsively with a bright , ever receding immensity . 
The young girl felt this blessed peace gently stealing over her doubt and struggle were all past , and the sun shone ever serene and unobscured upon the widening expanses of the future . 
And in his breast , too , that mood reigned in which life looks boundless and radiant , human woes small or impossible , and one's own self large and all conquering . 
That night was the happiest and most memorable night in the history of the Gran Parsonage . 
The pastor walked up and down on the floor , rubbing his hands in quiet contentment . 
Inga , to whom an engagement was essentially a sol emn affair , sat in a corner and gazed at her sister and Strand with tearful radiance . 
Arnfinn gave vent to his joy by bestowing embraces promiscuously upon whomsoever chanced to come in his way . 
This story , however , has a brief but not unimportant sequel . 
It was not many weeks after this happy evening that Arnfinn and the maiden with the amusingly unclassical nose presented themselves in the pastor's study and asked for his paternal and unofficial blessing . 
So , at present , Arnfinn is still studying , and the fair haired Inga is still waiting . 
HE was born in the houseman's lodge she in the great mansion . 
He did not know who his father was she was the daughter of Grim of Skogli , and she was the only daughter he had . 
That was the way in which they began life he as a child of sin , she as the daughter of a mighty race . 
She had round cheeks and merry eyes , and her lips were redder than the red rose . 
On the strand where they played the billows came and went , and they murmured faintly with a sound of infinite remoteness . 
I should like it very well , he answered , if you would follow me . 
No , I won't follow you , she cried . 
It is cold and wet down in the water . 
And I should spoil the ribbons on my new bodice . 
And may I go with you ? asked he , timidly . 
Yes , you may steer my boat and be my helmsman , or you may be my bridegroom , if you would like that better . 
Yes , I think I should rather be your bridegroom , and he gave her a long , strange look which almost frightened her . 
The years slipped by , and before Borghild knew it , she had grown into womanhood . 
The down on Truls's cheeks became rougher , and he , too , began to suspect that he was no longer a boy . 
But , when the milkmaids passed by , she would suddenly forget what she had been saying , and then they sat gazing at each other in silence . 
That set her thinking , and the more she thought , the more curious she grew . 
He played the violin well suppose she should ask him to come and fiddle at the party her father was to give at the end of the harvest . 
She resolved to do it , and he , not knowing what moved her , gave his promise eagerly . 
O'er the billows the fleet footed storm wind rode , The billows blue are the merman's abode , So strangely that harp was sounding . 
The memory was sweet but it was bitter too and the bitterness rose and filled her heart . 
She threw her head back proudly , and laughed a strange , hollow laugh . 
A bastard's bride , ha , ha ! A fine tale were that for the parish gossips . 
A yellow butterfly lighted on her arm , and with a fierce frown on her face she caught it between her fingers . 
the tall , straight tallow candles , stuck in many armed candlesticks , shone dimly through a sort of misty halo , and only suffused the dusk with a faint glimmering of light . 
And every time a guest entered , the flames of the candles flickered and twisted themselves with the wind , struggling to keep erect . 
And Borghild's courage , too , rose and fell with the flickering motion of a flame which wrestles with the wind . 
Presently he came , threw his fiddle on a bench , and with a reckless air walked up to her and held out his hand . 
She laid her hand in his , and there it lay for a while listlessly for neither dared trust the joy which the sight of the other enkindled . 
Beware that you do not play with a life , Borghild , even though it be a worthless one . 
There was something so hopelessly sad in his words , that they stung her to the quick . 
They laid bare a hidden deep in her heart , and she shrank back st the sight of her own vileness . 
He had a square face , strong features , and a huge crop of towy hair . 
His race was far famed for wit and daring . 
Tardy is your welcome , Borghild of Skogli , quoth he . 
But what a faint heart does not give a bold hand can grasp , and what I am not offered I take unbidden . 
So saying , he flung his arm about her waist , lifted her from the floor and put her down in the middle of the room . 
Truls stood and gazed at them with large , bewildered eyes . 
He tried hard to despise the braggart , but ended with envying him . 
Truls still followed them with his eyes suddenly he leaped up , and a wild thought burned in his breast . 
But with an effort he checked himself , grasped his violin , and struck a wailing chord of lament . 
A stave is an improvised responsive song . 
It is an ancient pastime in Norway , and is kept up until this day , especially among the peasantry . 
The students , also , at their social gatherings , throw improvised rhymes to each other across the table , and the rest of the company repeat the refrain . 
The hot and flushed dancers straggled over the floor by twos and threes , and the big beer horns were passed from hand to hand . 
He ran his fingers over his forehead , but he hardly felt the touch of his own hand . 
It was as if something was dead within him as if a string had snapped in his breast , and left it benumbed and voiceless . 
Ah , Borghild , is it you ? said he , in a hoarse voice . 
What do you want with me ? I thought you had done with me now . 
You are a very unwitty fellow , answered she , with a forced laugh . 
The branch that does not bend must break . 
She turned quickly on her heel and was lost in the crowd . 
He sat long pondering on her words , but their meaning remained hidden to him . 
The branch that does not bend must break . 
The fresh night air would do him good . 
The thought breathes more briskly in God's free nature , under the broad canopy of heaven . 
The white mist rose from the fields , and made the valley below appear like a white sea whose nearness you feel , even though you do not see it . 
And out of the mist the dark pines stretched their warning hands against the sky , and the moon was swimming , large and placid , between silvery islands of cloud . 
Truls began to beat his arms against his sides , and felt the warm blood spreading from his heart and thawing the numbness of his limbs . 
Not caring whither he went , he struck the path leading upward to the mountains . 
He took to humming an old air which happened to come into his head , only to try if there was life enough left in him to sing . 
He walked on briskly for a while , and , looking back upon the pain he had endured but a moment ago , he found it quite foolish and irrational . 
An absurd merriment took possession of him but all the while he did not know where his foot stepped his head swam , and his pulse beat feverishly . 
About midway between the forest and the mansion , where the field sloped more steeply , grew a clump of birch trees , whose slender stems glimmered ghostly white in the moonlight . 
Something drove Truls to leave the beaten road , and , obeying the impulse , he steered toward the birches . 
A strange sound fell upon his ear , like the moan of one in distress . 
It did not startle him indeed , he was in a mood when nothing could have caused him wonder . 
If the sky had suddenly tumbled down upon him , with moon and all , he would have taken it as a matter of course . 
Peering for a moment through the mist , he discerned the outline of a human figure . 
With three great strides he reached the birch tree at his feet sat Borghild rocking herself to and fro and weeping piteously . 
Without a word he seated himself at her side and tried to catch a glimpse of her face but she hid it from him and went on sobbing . 
Still there could be no doubt that it was Borghild one hour ago so merry , reckless , and defiant , now cowering at his feet and weeping like a broken hearted child . 
Borghild , he said , at last , putting his arm gently about her waist , you and I , I think , played together when we were children . 
So we did , Truls , answered she , struggling with her tears . 
And as we grew up , we spent many a pleasant hour with each other . 
She raised her head , and he drew her more closely to him . 
But since then I have done you a great wrong , began she , after a while . 
Nothing done that cannot yet be undone , he took heart to answer . 
It was long before her thoughts took shape , and , when at length they did , she dared not give them utterance . 
Nevertheless , she was all the time conscious of one strong desire , from which her conscience shrank as from a crime and she wrestled ineffectually with her weakness until her weakness prevailed . 
I am glad you came , she faltered . 
I knew you would come . 
There was something I wished to say to you . 
And what was it , Borghild ? I wanted to ask you to forgive me Forgive you He sprang up as if something had stung him . 
And why not ? she pleaded , piteously . 
Ah , girl , you know not what you ask , cried he , with a sternness which startled her . 
If I had more than one life to waste but you caress with one hand and stab with the other . 
Fare thee well , Borghild , for here our paths separate . 
He turned his back upon her and began to descend the slope . 
For God's sake , stay , Truls , implored she , and stretched her arms appealingly toward him tell me , oh , tell me all . 
With a leap he was again at her side , stooped down over her , and , in a hoarse , passionate whisper , spoke the secret of his life in her ear . 
She gazed for a moment steadily into his face , then , in a few hurried words , she pledged him her love , her faith , her all . 
And in the stillness of that summer night they planned together their flight to a greater and freer land , where no world old prejudice frowned upon the union of two kindred souls . 
During that winter Truls and Borghild seldom saw each other . 
The parish was filled with rumors , and after the Christmas holiday it was told for certain that the proud maiden of Skogli had been promised in marriage to Syvert Stein . 
It was the general belief that the families had made the match , and that Borghild , at least , had hardly had any voice in the matter . 
But Borghild sat alone in her gable window and looked longingly toward the ocean . 
The glaciers glittered , the rivers swelled , the buds of the forest burst , and great white sails began to glimmer on the far western horizon . 
The midnight came , but she stirred not . 
With the hour of midnight the music ceased . 
The week went and the wedding came . 
When the birds scattered , the ospray had vanished , and the waters again glittered calmly in the morning sun . 
Truls stood long , vacantly staring out upon the scene of the conflict , and many strange thoughts whirled through his head . 
Halloo , fiddler ! cried a couple of lads who had come to clear the wedding boats , you are early on foot to day . 
Come on and help us bail the boats . 
His limbs seemed half frozen , and a dull pain gathered about his head and in his breast in fact , everywhere and nowhere . 
About ten o'clock the bridal procession descended the slope to the fjord . 
She wore the ancestral bridal crown on her head , and the little silver disks around its edge tinkled and shook as she walked . 
They hailed her with firing of guns and loud hurrahs as she stepped into the boat still she did not raise her eyes , but remained silent . 
A small cannon , also an heir loom in the family , was placed amidships , and Truls , with his violin , took his seat in the prow . 
The shadow of thunder upon a life that was opening it was an ill omen , and its gloom sank into the hearts of the wedding guests . 
They spoke in undertones and threw pitying glances at the bride . 
Then at length Syvert Stein lost his patience . 
Truls heard the words , and in a slow , mechanical way he took the violin out of its case and raised it to his chin . 
Syvert in the mean while put a huge silver beer jug to his mouth , and , pledging his guests , emptied it even to the dregs . 
But the bride's cheek was pale and it was so still in the boat that every man could hear his own breathing . 
Ha , to day is Syvert Stein's wedding day ! shouted the bridegroom , growing hot with wrath . 
Let us try if the iron voice of the cannon can wake my guests from their slumber . 
He struck a match and put it to the touch hole of the cannon a long boom rolled away over the surface of the waters and startled the echoes of the distant glaciers . 
A faint hurrah sounded from the nearest craft , but there came no response from the bridal boat . 
Syvert pulled the powder horn from his pocket , laughed a wild laugh , and poured the whole contents of the horn into the mouth of the cannon . 
Now may the devil care for his own , roared he , and sprang up upon the row bench . 
Then there came a low murmuring strain as of wavelets that ripple against a sandy shore . 
Borghild lifted her eyes , and they met those of the fiddler . 
Ah , I think I should rather be your bridegroom , whispered she , and a ray of life stole into her stony visage . 
And she saw herself as a little rosy cheeked girl sitting at his side on the beach fifteen years ago . 
The wedding guests raised their heads , and a murmur of applause ran over the waters . 
Bravo ! cried the bridegroom . 
Now at last the tongues are loosed . 
Truls's gaze dwelt with tender sadness on the bride . 
Beware that thou dost not play with a life ! sighed the bride , even though it be a worthless one . 
The wedding guests clapped their hands and shouted wildly against the sky . 
The bride's countenance burned with a strange feverish glow . 
The fiddler arose in the prow of the boat , his eyes flamed , he struck the strings madly , and the air trembled with melodious rapture . 
The voice of that music no living tongue can interpret . 
But the bride fathomed its meaning her bosom labored vehemently , her lips quivered for an instant convulsively , and she burst into tears . 
A dark suspicion shot through the bridegroom's mind . 
He stared intently upon the weeping Borghild then turned his gaze to the fiddler , who , still regarding her , stood playing , with a half frenzied look and motion . 
You cursed wretch ! shrieked Syvert , and made a leap over two benches to where Truls was standing . 
With a tremendous crash something black darted through the air and a white smoke brooded over the bridal boat . 
The bridegroom stood pale and stunned . 
At his feet lay Borghild lay for a moment still , as if lifeless , then rose on her elbows , and a dark red current broke from her breast . 
No one saw how it was done but a moment later Truls , the Nameless , lay kneeling at Borghild's side . 
It WAS a worthless life , beloved , whispered he , tenderly . 
Now it is at an end . 
And he lifted her up in his arms as one lifts a beloved child , pressed a kiss on her pale lips , and leaped into the water . 
Like lead they fell into the sea . 
A throng of white bubbles whirled up to the surface . 
What life denied them , would to God that death may yield them ! ASATHOR'S VENGEANCE . 
I. IT was right up under the steel mountain wall where the farm of Kvaerk lay . 
However , it was not Lage Kvaerk who had built the house , so he could hardly be made responsible for its situation . 
An old tree grows but poorly in a new soil . 
So Lage Kvaerk thought , and so he said , too , whenever his wife Elsie spoke of her sunny home at the river . 
Gloomy as Lage usually was , he had his brighter moments , and people noticed that these were most likely to occur when Aasa , his daughter , was near . 
But perhaps no one did know her if her father was right , no one really did at least no one but himself . 
It made little difference where she was if the tears came , she yielded to them as if they were something she had long desired in vain . 
Few could weep like her , and weep like Aasa Kvaerk , was soon also added to the stock of parish proverbs . 
Had she been poor and homely , then of course nothing could have saved her but she happened to be both rich and beautiful , and to wealth and beauty much is pardoned . 
Now Aasa was eighteen years old , and could knit , weave , and spin , and it was full time that wooers should come . 
The farm of Kvaerk was indeed most singularly situated . 
The common road to Kvaerk made a large circuit around the forest , and reached the valley far up at its northern end . 
It was difficult to get anything to grow at Kvaerk . 
But what did thrive at Kvaerk in spite of both snow and night frost was legends , and they throve perhaps the better for the very sterility of its material soil . 
Aasa of course had heard them all and knew them by heart they had been her friends from childhood , and her only companions . 
If any still dared to slaughter a horse to the old gods , he cut off their ears , burned their farms , and drove them houseless from the smoking ruins . 
Therefore the peasants paid little heed to King Olaf's god , and continued to bring their offerings to Odin and Asathor . 
This reached the king's ear , and he summoned his bishop and five black priests , and set out to visit our valley . 
The next night the red cock crew over ten farms in the valley , and it happened to he theirs who had spoken against King Olaf's god . 
Then the peasants flocked to the Ting stone and received the baptism of Christ the White . 
Some few , who had mighty kinsmen in the North , fled and spread the evil tidings . 
Only one neither fled nor was baptized , and that one was Lage Ulfson Kvaerk , the ancestor of the present Lage . 
Then the peasants trembled , for they knew that Asathor was wroth . 
Only the king sat calm and fearless with his bishop and priests , quaffing the nut brown mead . 
The tempest raged until morn . 
When the sun rose , Saint Olaf called his hundred swains , sprang into the saddle and rode down toward the river . 
Few men who saw the angry fire in his eye , and the frown on his royal brow , doubted whither he was bound . 
But having reached the ford , a wondrous sight met his eye . 
The red cock crew is the expression used in the old Norwegian Fagas for incendiary fire . 
Rams , said he , were every day fare they could redeem no promise . 
Brynhild , his daughter , was the reward Asathor demanded . 
Lage prayed and besought him to ask for something else . 
He would gladly give him one of his sons for he had three sons , but only one daughter . 
In the mean time King Olaf built a church to Christ the White on the headland at the river , where it stands until this day . 
Lage Ulfson was not the man to be afraid yet the church bells many a time drove the blood from his cheeks for he also heard the moan from the mountain . 
The year went , and Asathor returned . 
If he had not told his name , however , Lage would not have recognized him . 
That a year could work so great a change in a god , he would hardly have believed , if his own eyes had not testified to it . 
Asathor's cheeks were pale and bloodless , the lustre of his eye more than half quenched , and his gray hair hung in disorder down over his forehead . 
Methinks thou lookest rather poorly to day , said Lage . 
It is only those cursed church bells , answered the god they leave me no rest day or night . 
Aha , thought Lage , if the king's bells are mightier than thou , then there is still hope of safety for my daughter . 
Where is Brynhild , thy daughter ? asked Asathor . 
Then the god gave a fearful roar , fell on the ground , writhed and foamed and vanished into the mountain . 
Not long after he took his sons and his daughter , and hastened with them southward , until he found King Olaf . 
And , so the Saga relates , they all fell down on their knees before him , prayed for his forgiveness , and received baptism from the king's own bishop . 
So ends the Saga of Lage Ulfson Kvaerk . 
Aasa Kvaerk loved her father well , but especially in the winter . 
Then , while she sat turning her spinning wheel in the light of the crackling logs , his silent presence always had a wonderfully soothing and calming effect upon her . 
Then Elsie had bright visions of wooers and thrifty housewives , and even Lage dreamed of seeing the ancient honor of the family re established . 
She was the last of the mighty race . 
But when summer came , the bright visions fled and the spring winds , which to others bring life and joy , to Kvaerk brought nothing but sorrow . 
Prayers and threats were equally useless . 
Aasa was nineteen years old before she had a single wooer . 
But when she was least expecting it , the wooer came to her . 
It was late one summer night the young maiden was sitting on the brink of the ravine , pondering on the old legend and peering down into the deep below . 
It was not the first time she had found her way hither , where but seldom a human foot had dared to tread . 
But hark ! a huge stone rolls down over the mountain side , then another , and another the noise grows , the birches down there in the gorge tremble and shake . 
He stood calm and silent , and looked at her with a timid but strangely bitter smile . 
His dress was not the national costume of the valley , neither was it like anything that Aasa had ever known . 
On his head he wore a cap that hung all on one side , and was decorated with a long , heavy silk tassel . 
Inconvenience ? said she , surprised , and again slowly turned on her heel no , not that I know . 
Then tell me if there are people living here in the neighborhood , or if the light deceived me , which I saw from the other side of the river . 
What do you do up here in the long winter ? asked he , after a pause . 
Have you ever heard the forest sing ? asked she , curiously . 
That is why I came here . 
And again they walked on in silence . 
It was near midnight when they entered the large hall at Kvaerk . 
Aasa went before , still leading the young man by the hand . 
And there they stood , all gazing at the bewildered traveler , who indeed was no less startled than they , and as utterly unable to account for his own sudden apparition . 
Forgive me , I was not sure but it was all a dream for I dream so much . 
Lage then told his guest Vigfusson something about his family , but of the legend of Asathor and Saint Olaf he spoke not a word . 
The father's gaze dwelt fondly upon her , and the collegian was but conscious of one thought that she was wondrously beautiful . 
She , however , was aware of no such restraint . 
I find my songs on the lips of the people , answered he , and I write them down as the maidens or the old men sing them . 
She did not seem quite to comprehend that . 
Do you hear maidens sing them ? asked she , astonished . 
A minute ago her presence had embarrassed him now , strange to say , he met her eye , and smiled happily as he met it . 
Do you mean to say that you make your living by writing songs ? asked Lage . 
The trouble is , answered Vigfusson , that I make no living at all but I have invested a large capital , which is to yield its interest in the future . 
There is a treasure of song hidden in every nook and corner of our mountains and forests , and in our nation's heart . 
If that is your object , remarked Lage , I think you have hit upon the right place in coming here . 
Lage could not but attribute to Vigfusson the merit of having kept Aasa at home a whole day , and that in the month of midsummer . 
And here was one who was likely to understand her , and to whom she seemed willing to yield all the affection of her warm but wayward heart . 
Thus ran Lage Ulfson's reflections and at night he had a little consultation with Elsie , his wife , who , it is needless to add , was no less sanguine than he . 
And then Aasa will make an excellent housewife , you know , observed Elsie . 
I will speak to the girl about it to morrow . 
She is not like other girls , you know . 
Very well , Lage , I shall not say a single word . 
Alas , you are right , she is not like other girls . 
And Elsie again sighed at her husband's sad ignorance of a woman's nature , and at the still sadder fact of her daughter's inferiority to the accepted standard of womanhood . 
So they lived on from day to day and from week to week , and , as old Lage remarked , never had Kvaerk been the scene of so much happiness . 
And why not , Aasa ? he would say summer is ten times summer there when the drowsy noonday spreads its trembling maze of shadows between those huge , venerable trunks . 
He understood her not , but fearing to ask , he remained silent . 
One evening Vigfusson and old Lage Ulfson had been walking about the fields to look at the crop , both smoking their evening pipes . 
For it is so dark , so dark in the forest . 
Oh let me no more in the sunshine hear Its quivering noonday call The bold knight's love is the sun of my heart Is my life , and my all in all . 
But it is so dark , so dark in the forest . 
The young man felt the blood rushing to his face his heart beat violently . 
There was a keen sense of guilt in the blush on his cheek , a loud accusation in the throbbing pulse and the swelling heart beat . 
And now he had no doubt that he had gained her heart . 
Vigfusson sat down on the moss grown rock and pondered . 
How long he sat there he did not know , but when he rose and looked around , Aasa was gone . 
Then remembering her father's request to bring her home , he hastened up the hill side toward the mansion , and searched for her in all directions . 
It was near midnight when he returned to Kvaerk , where Aasa sat in her high gable window , still humming the weird melody of the old ballad . 
By what reasoning Vigfusson arrived at his final conclusion is difficult to tell . 
Aasa was rich he had nothing it was a reason for delay , but hardly a conclusive one . 
They did not know him he must go out in the world and prove himself worthy of her . 
He would come back when he should have compelled the world to respect him for as yet he had done nothing . 
But Aasa , poor thing , could do nothing by halves a nature like hers brooks no delay to her love was life or it was death . 
The next morning he appeared at breakfast with his knapsack on his back , and otherwise equipped for his journey . 
It was of no use that Elsie cried and begged him to stay , that Lage joined his prayers to hers , and that Aasa stood staring at him with a bewildered gaze . 
It was easy to cross , however a light foot might jump from stone to stone , and be over in a minute . 
Here she sat one fair summer day the day after Vigfusson's departure . 
It was noon , and the sun stood high over the forest . 
And as she tried to listen , to fix the air in her mind , it all ceased again , and she heard but the monotonous murmuring of the brook . 
Everything seemed so empty and worthless , as if that faint melody had been the world of the moment . 
The water , the trees , the air , were full of it . 
What a strange melody ! Aasa well knew that every brook and river has its Neck , besides hosts of little water sprites . 
And that they could sing also , she doubted not it was their voices she heard through the murmuring of the brook . 
Thus sat Aasa and gazed and gazed , and in one moment she seemed to see what in the next moment she saw not . 
Then a sudden great hush stole through the forest , and in the hush she could hear the silence calling her name . 
It was so long since she had been in the forest , it seemed ages and ages ago . 
The sunshine smote upon her eyelids , and his name was blotted out from her life there was nothing but emptiness all around her . 
Gradually the forest drew nearer and nearer , the water bubbled and rippled , and the huge , bare stemmed pines stretched their long gnarled arms toward her . 
And the word that trembled on his lips was , Come . 
She felt no fear nor reluctance , but rose to obey . 
There was something in the wistful look of his eye which she knew so well , which she had seen so often , although she could not tell when or where . 
The old man extended his hand Aasa took it , and fearlessly or rather spontaneously followed . 
They approached the steep , rocky wall as they drew near , a wild , fierce laugh rang through the forest . 
The features of the old man were twisted as it were into a grin so also were the features of the rock but the laugh blew like a mighty blast through the forest . 
Aasa clung to the old man's hand and followed him she knew not whither . 
At home in the large sitting room at Kvaerk sat Lage , brooding over the wreck of his hopes and his happiness . 
Aasa had gone to the woods again the very first day after Vigfusson's departure . 
What would be the end of all this ? It was already late in the evening , and she had not returned . 
The father cast anxious glances toward the door , every time he heard the latch moving . 
At last , when it was near midnight , he roused all his men from their sleep , and commanded them to follow him . 
Soon the dusky forests resounded far and near with the blast of horns , the report of guns , and the calling and shouting of men . 
The affrighted stag crossed and recrossed the path of the hunters , but not a rifle was leveled at its head . 
Toward morning it was before the sun had yet risen Lage , weary and stunned , stood leaning up against a huge fir . 
Then suddenly a fierce , wild laugh rang through the forest . 
Lage shuddered , raised his hand slowly and pressed it hard against his forehead , vainly struggling to clear his thoughts . 
The men clung fearfully together a few of the more courageous ones drew their knives and made the sign of the cross with them in the air . 
Again the same mad laugh shook the air , and swept over the crowns of the pine trees . 
Then Lage lifted his eyes toward heaven and wrung his hands for the awful truth stood before him . 
He remained a long while leaning against that old fir as in a dead stupor and no one dared to arouse him . 
A suppressed murmur reached the men's ears . 
But deliver us from evil were the last words they heard . 
When Lage and his servants came home to Kvaerk with the mournful tidings of Aasa's disappearance , no one knew what to do or say . 
It was laid upon four large wagons , which had been joined together with ropes and planks , and drawn away by twelve strong horses . 
Long after the strange caravan had vanished in the twilight , the children stood gazing up into the empty bell tower . 
Anon , the muffled noise and bustle of the work being at an end , the laborers withdrew , and a strange , feverish silence seemed to brood over the forest . 
It was well nigh morn , but the dense fog still brooded over the woods , and it was dark as night . 
Lage was sitting on the ground , his head leaning on both his elbows at his side lay the flickering torch , and the huge bell hung dumb overhead . 
Lage seized his torch , sprang to his feet , and saw Vigfusson . 
He stretched his arm with the blazing torch closer to the young man's face , stared at him with large eyes , and his lip quivered but he could not utter a word . 
Vigfusson ? faltered he at last . 
It is I and the second stroke followed , stronger and more solemn than the first . 
The same fierce , angry voices chorused forth from every nook of the rock and the woods . 
Then came the third the noise grew fourth and it sounded like a hoarse , angry hiss when the twelfth stroke fell , silence reigned again in the forest . 
Vigfusson dropped the bell rope , and with a loud voice called Lage Kvaerk and his men . 
He lit a torch , held it aloft over his head , and peered through the dusky night . 
The men spread through the highlands to search for the lost maiden Lage followed close in Vigfusson's footsteps . 
They had not walked far when they heard the babbling of the brook only a few feet away . 
Thither they directed their steps . 
On a large stone in the middle of the stream the youth thought he saw something white , like a large kerchief . 
Quick as thought he was at its side , bowed down with his torch , and fell backward . 
And at his side stood Vigfusson , pale and aghast , with the burning torch in his hand . 
The footsteps of the men awakened the father , but when he turned his face on them they shuddered and started back . 
Then Lage rose , lifted the maiden from the stone , and silently laid her in Vigfusson's arms her rich yellow hair flowed down over his shoulder . 
The youth let his torch fall into the waters , and with a sharp , serpent like hiss its flame was quenched . 
He crossed the brook the men followed , and the dark pine trees closed over the last descendant of Lage Ulfson's mighty race . 
