She is a daughter of Lord Yu Keng , a member of the Manchu White Banner Corps , and one of the most advanced and progressive Chinese officials of his generation . 
Later he was Minister to Japan , which post he quitted in to become President of the Tsung li yamen . 
In he was appointed Minister to France , where he remained four years . 
At a period when the Chinese Government was extremely conservative and reactionary , Lord Yu Keng labored indefatigably for reform . 
The progressive spirit of Lord Yu Keng was shown in the education of his children . 
His children got their early education in missionary schools , and the daughters later attended a convent in France , where the author of this work finished her schooling and entered society . 
While on leave from her duties to attend upon her father , who was fatally ill in Shanghai , Princess Der Ling took a step which terminated connexion with the Chinese Court . 
This was her engagement to Mr. Thaddeus C. White , an American , to whom she was married on May , . 
CONTENTS CHAPTER I. INTRODUCTORY II . 
A PLAY AT THE COURT IV . 
A LUNCHEON WITH THE EMPRESS V. AN AUDIENCE WITH THE EMPRESS VI . 
IN ATTENDANCE ON HER MAJESTY VII . 
SOME INCIDENTS OF THE COURT VIII . 
THE EMPEROR KWANG HSU X. THE YOUNG EMPRESS XI . 
THE MID AUTUMN FESTIVAL XVI . 
THE NEW YEAR FESTIVALS XIX . 
, altogether fifty five people , arrived in Shanghai on January , , on the S. S. Annam from Paris , where for four years my father had been Chinese Minister . 
, the Shanghai Magistrate and numerous other officials , all dressed in their official robes . 
The building is very old and very much out of repair . 
It was a beautiful place in its prime , but had been allowed to go to rack and ruin . 
The custom is that the magistrate has to find a place and supply the food , etc . 
At last we did safely arrive in the Hotel des Colonies , where my father found awaiting him two telegrams from the Imperial Palace . 
In view of all these difficulties , he telegraphed that , after the ice had broken up in the Peiho River , we would come by the first steamer leaving Shanghai for Tientsin . 
There is a very curious custom of reverence , which must be performed by all high officials on their return from abroad . 
, a Taotai being considered of too low a rank for such an honor . 
, which is especially built for functions of this kind , where they were met by a large number of officials of the lower grades . 
The Viceroy , or in this case Yuan Shih Kai , and the other officials arrived first . 
Yuan stood at the left side of this table and the others arranged themselves in two diminishing lines starting from the front corners of the table . 
After this ceremony was over my father immediately arose and inquired after Their Majesties' health , and Yuan replied that they were quite well . 
We stayed in Tientsin for three days , arriving in Peking on the twenty ninth . 
My father's condition was much worse and he begged for four months' leave of absence , in which to recuperate , which was granted by Her Majesty , the Empress Dowager . 
Our old house was not entirely new . 
, were foreign , but the arrangement of the house itself and courtyard was Chinese . 
This , like all Chinese houses in Peking , was built in a very rambling fashion , and with the gardens , covered about ten acres of ground . 
However , this is only one of the many trials that a high official in China is called upon to bear . 
The houses in Peking are built in a very rambling fashion , covering a large amount of ground , and our former house was no exception to the rule . 
It had sixteen small houses . 
, and chair coolies , it was not a difficult task to use them . 
After some little trouble one was secured , and it turned out to be a very famous place indeed . 
It was the house where Li Hung Chang signed the treaties with the Foreign Powers after the Boxer Rising and also where he died . 
However , in view of our having lost our place by fire , I am inclined to think that their fears were well founded . 
at six o'clock the following morning . 
My mother told Prince Ching that we had been wearing foreign clothes all these years , while abroad , and had no suitable Manchu clothes to wear . 
My mother had always made us dress exactly alike , ever since we were little girls . 
I said that I preferred to wear my red velvet gown , as I had the idea it might please Her Majesty . 
After a long discussion I had my way . 
We had lovely red hats trimmed with plumes and the same color shoes , and stockings to match . 
My mother wore a lovely gown of sea green chiffon cloth embroidered with pale mauve iris and trimmed with mauve velvet she wore her large black velvet hat with long white plumes . 
, we had to start at three o'clock in the morning , in order to be there at six . 
It was in this way that the late Empress Dowager was selected by the Emperor Hsien Feng . 
We started at three o'clock that morning in total darkness riding in four coolie sedan chairs , one on each side of the chair . 
In going such a long distance it was necessary to have two relays of chair coolies . 
This meant twenty four coolies for the three chairs , not counting an extra coolie for each chair who acted as a sort of head chair bearer . 
Besides this there were three military officers on horses , one for each chair and two servants riding at the back of each chair . 
In addition there were three big Chinese carts following behind for the chair coolies to ride in and rest . 
This made a cavalcade consisting of fortyfive men , nine horses and three carts . 
This ride was a very long one and I felt quite stiff and tired by the time I reached the Palace gates . 
CHAPTER TWO AT THE PALACE WHEN we reached the City gates , which were about half way between our house and the Summer Palace , they were wide open for us to pass . 
This quite surprised us , as all gates are closed at seven o'clock in the evening and are not opened except on special occasions until daylight . 
We inquired of the guard why this was , and were told that orders had been given for the gates to be opened for us to pass . 
The officials who had charge were standing in a double line dressed in full official dress and saluted us as we passed . 
It was still quite dark when we had passed through the gate and I thought of the many experiences of my short life but this was by far the strangest of them all . 
I wondered what Her Majesty would be like and whether she would like me or not . 
While I was still dreaming of these pleasant prospects , a faint red line appeared on the horizon heralding the coming of a most perfect day , and so it proved . 
The tops of the wall and buildings were covered with yellow and green tiles and made a most dazzling picture in the bright sunlight . 
This was good news , as I began to think we would never get there . 
The children trouped out to see the procession pass , and I heard one remark to another Those ladies are going to the Palace to become Empresses , which amused me very much . 
, a very beautiful piece of old Chinese architecture and carved work , and from here got our first view of the Palace gates , which were about yards ahead . 
These gates are cut into the solid wall surrounding the Palace and consist of one very large gate in the center and two smaller ones on each side . 
The center gate is only opened when their Majesties pass in and out of the Palace . 
Our chairs were set down in front of the left gate , which was open . 
Outside of these gates , at a distance of about yards , were two buildings where the guard stayed at night . 
When we got out of our chairs , we were met by two eunuchs of the fourth rank . 
which is found in Szechuen Province . 
They are grey and are dyed black , and are much wider than the peacock feather . 
These two eunuchs were accompanied by ten small eunuchs carrying yellow silk screens , which they placed around our chairs when we alighted . 
should be brought to us . 
This is considered a great honor . 
They were ten feet long and twenty feet high and were held by two eunuchs . 
These two eunuchs of high rank were extremely polite and stood at each side of the gate and invited us to enter . 
The courtyard was full of people dressed in official robes of the different ranks , and , after the Chinese fashion , all seemed to be very busy doing nothing . 
When they saw us they stood still and stared . 
The two eunuchs who were showing us the way conducted us to one of these rooms . 
This room was about twenty feet square , just ordinarily furnished in black wood furniture with red cloth cushions and silk curtains hanging from the three windows . 
and young ladies to wait in the East side Palace . 
On his saying this , the two eunuchs who were with us knelt down and replied Jur . 
is situated on the north side and the other buildings were a little larger . 
In different parts of the room were fourteen clocks of all sizes and shapes . 
I know this , for I counted them . 
In a little while two servant girls came and waited on us and told us that Her Majesty was dressing and that we were to wait a little time . 
This little time proved to be a matter of more than two hours and a half , but as this is considered nothing in China , we did not get impatient . 
From time to time eunuchs came and brought milk to drink and about twenty or more dishes of various kinds of food which Her Majesty sent . 
She also sent us each a gold ring with a large pearl in the center . 
Later the chief eunuch , Li Lien Ying , came dressed in his official clothes . 
He was of the second rank and wore a red button and peacock feather and was the only eunuch that was ever allowed to wear the peacock feather . 
We were very much surprised that she should give us such beautiful presents before she had even seen us , and felt most kindly disposed toward her for her generosity . 
I was the first one to speak , and told them of course we could speak our own language , although we knew several others . 
They were very much surprised and said Oh ! how funny , they can talk the language as well as we do . 
We in turn were very much surprised to find such ignorant people in the Imperial Palace and concluded that their opportunities for acquiring knowledge were very limited . 
Then they told us Her Majesty was waiting to receive us , and we went immediately . 
After walking through three courtyards very similar to those we had previously passed through , we came to a magnificent building just one mass of exquisite carving . 
There were two smaller buildings flanking this large one , also one mass of carvings and hung with lanterns . 
This lady came out to meet us , smiling , and shook hands with us in the most approved foreign fashion . 
We were told later that this was the Young Empress , wife of the Emperor Kwang Hsu . 
She said Her Majesty has sent me to meet you , and was very sweet and polite , and had beautiful manners but was not very pretty . 
Then we heard a loud voice from the hall saying , Tell them to come in at once . 
Over her gown she wore a cape , the most magnificent and costly thing I ever saw . 
This cape was made of about three thousand five hundred pearls the size of a canary bird's egg , all exactly alike in color and perfectly round . 
It was made on the fish net pattern and had a fringe of jade pendants and was joined with two pure jade clasps . 
Her shoes were trimmed with small tassels made of pearls and embroidered with tiny pieces of different colored jade . 
Her Majesty stood up when she saw us and shook hands with us . 
She had a most fascinating smile and was very much surprised that we knew the Court etiquette so well . 
, you are a wonder the way you have brought your daughters up . 
I am pleased to hear their father has been so careful with them , Her Majesty said , and given them such a fine education . 
We were very much pleased at this and thanked her for her kindness . 
Her Majesty asked all sorts of questions about our Paris gowns and said we must wear them all the time , as she had very little chance to see them at the Court . 
She was particularly in love with our Louis XV high heel shoes . 
and call me Lao Tsu Tsung . 
His Majesty shyly shook hands with us . 
I noticed he had a very sad look , although he was smiling all the time we were there . 
It was a beautiful day and her open chair was waiting . 
This chair is carried by eight eunuchs all dressed in official robes , a most unusual sight . 
The head eunuch walked on her left side and the second eunuch on her right side , each with a steadying hand on the chair pole . 
Four eunuchs of the fifth rank in front and twelve eunuchs of the sixth rank walked behind . 
and four servant girls all carrying something . 
This procession was most interesting to see and made one think it a lady's dressing room on legs . 
The Emperor walked on Her Majesty's right and the Young Empress on the left , as did also the Court ladies . 
The Audience Hall was about two hundred feet long by about one hundred and fifty feet wide , and at the left side was a long table covered with yellow satin . 
These two openings were reached by a flight of six steps . 
At the back of this dais was a small screen and immediately in front of this , in the center , was Her Majesty's throne . 
Immediately behind was an immense carved wood screen , the most beautiful thing I ever saw , twenty feet long by ten feet high . 
In front of Her Majesty's throne was a long narrow table . 
At the left side was a smaller throne for the Emperor . 
The theme of the carving and furnishings of this dais was the phoenix and peony most exquisitely carved in ebony wood , in fact the theme of the entire room was the same . 
Just before Her Majesty took her seat on her throne she ordered us to go behind this screen with the Young Empress and the Court ladies . 
This we did , and could hear the conversation between Her Majesty and the Ministers very plainly , and as my readers will see later , I made good use of this . 
CHAPTER THREE A PLAY AT THE COURT THIS day to me was a medley of brilliant impressions . 
I was a great novelty among these exclusive Court ladies , brought up rigidly apart from foreign life and customs , and I was subjected to a rapid fire of questions . 
I soon found that these women were the same as others the world over in point of curiosity and love of gossip . 
, a young widow and a strikingly handsome woman , spoke to me . 
Were you brought up in Europe and educated ? she asked . 
I am told that when people go to that country and drink the water there , they quickly forget their own country . 
Her sister , wife of the brother of the Young Empress , a most intelligent , quiet and dignified lady , stood by smiling and listening to the eager questions . 
After numerous questions had been asked the Young Empress finally said How ignorant you are . 
I know that each country has its ruler and that some countries are republics . 
What I should like to see is some of our good Manchu people go , as then they would see what we really are . 
She afterwards told me she had been reading a history of the different countries , which had been translated into Chinese , and she seemed to be very well informed . 
After the Audience was over , Her Majesty called us out from behind the screen and told us to go with her to see the theatre . 
She said , as it was such a beautiful day , she preferred to walk , so we started , walking a little behind her , as is the custom . 
This , as I afterwards found out , was a great condescension on her part and a thing that she very seldom ever did . 
She , like everybody else , had her pets and hobbies , such as flowers , trees , plants , dogs , horses , etc . 
, and there was one dog in particular that was her favorite pet . 
This dog was with Her Majesty always and followed her wherever she went , and a more homely dog I never saw . 
It had absolutely nothing to recommend it in any way . 
Her Majesty thought it beautiful , and called it Shui Ta . 
A short distance from the Audience Hall we came to a large courtyard . 
On each side of this courtyard were two immense baskets fifteen feet in height , built of natural logs and literally covered with purple wisteria . 
They were simply gorgeous and great favorites of Her Majesty . 
She was always very proud of them when in bloom and took great delight in showing them to the people . 
From this courtyard we entered a sort of passageway which ran along the sides of a big hill and led directly to the theatre , where we soon arrived . 
This theatre is quite unlike anything that you can imagine . 
It is built around the four sides of an open courtyard , each side being separate and distinct . 
The building has five stories . 
It is entirely open on the front and has two stages , one above the other . 
The three top stories are used for holding the drops and for store rooms . 
On the two sides were long , low buildings with large verandas running their entire length , where the Princes and Ministers sat when invited by Her Majesty to witness the play . 
Directly opposite this stage was a spacious building , containing three large rooms , which was used exclusively by Her Majesty . 
The floor was raised about ten feet above the ground , which brought it on a level with the stage . 
Large glass windows ran along in front , so made that they could be removed in the summer and replaced with pale blue gauze screens . 
This day she invited us to go to this room with her . 
Later I was told that she would very often come to this room , look at the play for a while and then take her siesta . 
She could certainly sleep soundly , for the din and noise did not disturb her in the least . 
If any of my readers have ever been to a Chinese theatre , they can well imagine how difficult it would be to woo the God of Sleep in such a pandemonium . 
As soon as we were in this bedroom the play commenced . 
It was a religious play called The Empress of Heaven's Party or Feast to all the Buddhist Priests to eat her famous peaches and drink her best wine . 
This party or feast is given on the third day of the third moon of each year . 
I was very much surprised to see this actor apparently suspended in the air and actually floating on this cloud , which was made of cotton . 
The clever way in which they moved the scenery , etc . 
Then four other smaller pagodas slowly rose from the four corners of the stage , each containing a buddha the same as the first . 
When the first Buddhist Priest had descended , the five buddhas came out of the pagodas , which immediately disappeared , and walked about the stage , still singing . 
Gradually from the wing came numbers of buddhas singing until the stage was full , and they all formed into a ring . 
dressed all in white silk , with a white hood on her head , standing in the center of this flower . 
As the leaves opened I saw a girl and a boy in the center of them . 
The girl standing in the leaf on the Goddess' right side held a bottle made of jade and a willow branch . 
The legend of this is that if the Goddess dips the willow branch into the jade bottle and spreads it over a dead person it will bring the person to life . 
The boy and the girl are the two attendants of the buddha . 
Finally the three came down from the flower and leaves and joined the rest of the buddhas . 
This ended the first scene . 
The second scene opened with tables set for the feast to be given by the Empress of Heaven . 
These tables were loaded down with peaches and wine and four attendants guarding them . 
Suddenly a bee came buzzing near and scattered a powder under the nostrils of the attendants , which made them sleepy . 
When they had fallen asleep , this bee transformed itself into a big monkey and this monkey ate all the peaches and drank all the wine . 
As soon as he had finished he disappeared . 
A blast of trumpets announced the coming of the Empress of Heaven and she soon arrived accompanied by all the Buddhist Priests and their attendants . 
When the Empress of Heaven saw all the peaches and wine had disappeared , she woke the attendants and asked them why they were asleep and where the peaches and wine had gone . 
They said that they did not know , that they were waiting for her to come and fell asleep . 
When she was told this , she ordered the soldiers of heaven and several buddhas to go and find him at his place . 
It seems that this monkey had originally been made from a piece of stone and lived in a large hole in a mountain on the earth . 
He was endowed with supernatural powers and could walk on the clouds . 
He was allowed to come to heaven and the Empress of Heaven gave him a position looking after the Imperial orchards . 
When they got to his place on the earth , they found that he had taken some of the peaches with him and he , with other monkeys , was having a feast . 
The soldiers challenged him to come out and fight . 
He immediately accepted this challenge , but the soldiers could do nothing with him . 
He pulled the hair out of his coat and transformed each hair into a little monkey and each monkey had an iron rod in its hand . 
He himself had a special iron rod , which had been given to him by the King of Sea Dragons . 
This rod he could make any size he wanted from a needle to a crowbar . 
Among the buddhas who had gone with the soldiers was one named Erh Lang Yeh , who was the most powerful of them all and had three eyes . 
When they got there the Empress of Heaven ordered that he should be handed to Lao Chun , an old taoist god , and that he should burn him in his incense burner . 
After he had watched for a long time he thought the monkey must be dead and went out for a few minutes . 
These pills were very powerful and if one of them were eaten it would give eternal life , and the monkey knew this . 
The monkey ate one and it tasted good and he gave the little monkeys some . 
When Lao Chun came back and found both the monkey and the pills gone he went and informed the Empress of Heaven . 
This ended the second scene . 
The third scene opened with the buddhas and soldiers at the monkey's place in the mountains and they again asked him to come out and fight . 
The monkey said What ! Coming again ? and laughed at them . 
They started to fight again , but he was so strong they could not get the best of him . 
When the monkey saw this , he transformed himself also into the same thing . 
The little god again transformed himself into fire to burn the monkey , but the monkey transformed himself into water and put the fire out . 
Again the little god transformed himself , this time into a very fierce lion , but the monkey transformed himself into a big net to catch the lion . 
When they arrived at the hole in the mountain the monkey came out and looked at Ju Li , but did not say a word , as he knew who this god was . 
This god pointed a finger at him and he knelt down and submitted . 
Ju Li said Come with me , and took the monkey and put him under another mountain and told him he would have to stay there until he promised he would be good . 
This finished the play , which was very interesting , and I enjoyed it from beginning to end . 
It was acted very cleverly and quite realistic , and I was very much surprised to know that the eunuchs could act so well . 
Her Majesty told us that the scenery was all painted by the eunuchs and that she had taught them about all they knew . 
Unlike most theatres in China , it had a curtain which was closed between the acts , also wing slides and drop scenes . 
Her Majesty had never seen a foreign theatre and I could not understand where she got all her ideas from . 
She was very fond of reading religious books and fairy tales , and wrote them into plays and staged them herself , and was extremely proud of her achievement . 
Then she said in such a charming way Oh ! I am so interested in talking with you that I have forgotten to order my lunch . 
These boxes or trays are made of wood painted yellow and are large enough to hold four small and two large bowls of food . 
I should also mention that these bowls were of Imperial yellow with silver covers . 
Some were ornamented with green dragons and some with the Chinese character Shou . 
There were about one hundred and fifty different kinds of food , for I counted them . 
They were placed in long rows , one row of large bowls and one row of small plates , and then another row of small bowls , and so on . 
As the setting of the tables was going on , two Court ladies came into the bedroom , each carrying a large yellow box . 
As these plates were being placed on the tables Her Majesty said that she liked these dainties better than meat and gave us some and told us to make ourselves at home . 
We thanked her for her kindness and enjoyed them very much . 
I noticed that she ate quite a quantity from the different plates and wondered how she would be able to eat her lunch . 
After this a eunuch came in carrying a cup of tea . 
This tea cup was made of pure white jade and the saucer and cover was of solid gold . 
Then another eunuch came in carrying a silver tray on which were two jade cups similar to the others , one containing honeysuckle flowers and the other rose petals . 
He also brought a pair of gold chopsticks . 
They both knelt on the floor in front of Her Majesty and held the trays up so that she could reach them . 
She took the golden cover off of the cup containing tea and took some of the honeysuckle flowers and placed them in the tea . 
While she was doing this and sipping the tea , she was telling how fond she was of flowers and what a delicate flavor they gave to the tea . 
When it came , she put some of the honeysuckle flowers in the cup for us and watched us drink it . 
It was the most delicious tea I had ever tasted and the putting of flowers in it gave it an extremely delicate flavour . 
As soon as she was inside the room , she ordered the covers to be removed and they were all taken off at one time . 
Then she took her seat at the head of the table and told us to stand at the foot . 
She then said generally the Emperor takes lunch with me when we have the theatre , but he is shy to day , as you are all new to him . 
I hope he will get over it and not be so bashful . 
You three had better eat with me to day . 
Of course , we knew that this was an especial favor , and thanked her by kowtowing before we commenced to eat . 
This kowtowing , or bowing our heads to the ground , was very tiring at first and made us dizzy , until we got used to it . 
When we commenced to eat , Her Majesty ordered the eunuchs to place plates for us and give us silver chopsticks , spoons , etc . 
, and said I am sorry you have to eat standing , but I cannot break the law of our great ancestors . 
Even the Young Empress cannot sit in my presence . 
I am sure the foreigners must think we are barbarians to treat our Court ladies in this way and I don't wish them to know anything about our customs . 
You will see how differently I act in their presence , so that they cannot see my true self . 
I was watching her while she was talking to my mother and marvelled to see how she could eat , after having eaten such a quantity of candy , walnuts , etc . 
, while in her bedroom . 
Beef was a thing that was tabooed within the precincts of the Palace , as it was considered a great sin to kill and eat animals that were used as beasts of burden . 
The food consisted mostly of pork , mutton and game , fowls and vegetables . 
Chopped pork with chopped bamboo shoots , pork cut in cubes and cooked with cherries and pork cooked with onions and sliced thin . 
This last dish was Her Majesty's favorite and I must say it was good . 
Then there was a sort of pancake made of eggs , pork and mushrooms chopped fine and fried , also pork cooked with cabbage and another dish cooked with turnips . 
The fowl and mutton was cooked in several different ways . 
Shark fins are considered a great delicacy in China . 
Besides this there was roast chicken , boneless chicken and roast duck . 
Ducks and chickens are stuffed with little pine needles to give them a fine flavor and roasted in open air ovens . 
, and one kind was made with mincemeat inside . 
Then we had a number of different kinds of pickles , of which Her Majesty was very fond . 
Then there was beans and green peas , and peanuts made into cakes and served with sugarcane syrup . 
I did not eat very much , as I was too busy watching Her Majesty and listening to what she said , although she told us to eat all we could . 
, and Her Majesty said that we must all eat porridge after our meat . 
We went with her and I stood near the door between the two rooms and saw the Young Empress and Court ladies come in and stand around the table eating very quietly . 
They were never allowed to sit down and eat their food . 
All this time the theatre had been going on playing some fairy tales , but they were not near as interesting as the first play that we had seen . 
Her Majesty sat on her long couch in the bedroom and the eunuch brought her some tea and she ordered some brought for us . 
My reader can imagine how delighted I was to be treated in this way . 
In China the people think their sovereign is the supreme being and that her word is law . 
One must never raise their eyes when talking to her . 
This is a sign of great respect . 
I thought these extreme favors must be most unusual . 
When Her Majesty had rested a while , she told us that it was time we were returning to the city , as it was getting late . 
She gave us eight big yellow boxes of fruit and cakes to take home with us . 
to get better soon and tell him to take the medicine I am sending by you and to rest well . 
Also give him these eight boxes of fruit and cakes . 
I thought my father , who had been quite ill since we returned from Paris , would not be much benefited if he ate all those cakes . 
However , I knew he would appreciate her kind thoughtfulness even if it were detrimental to his health . 
Just as we were leaving , Her Majesty said to my mother that she liked us very much and wanted us to come and be her Court ladies and stay at the Palace . 
This house contained three very large rooms and was situated on the right side of her own or private Palace . 
In this Palace she had quite a number of bedrooms and made use of them all . 
When we got into the house , we were surprised to find several eunuchs waiting our return . 
They had brought us each four rolls of Imperial brocade from Her Majesty . 
Once more we had to bend to custom in thanking her for these gifts . 
She also asked them numerous questions about our house , whether we were pleased with her , etc . 
These people are extremely fond of talking and after we had returned to the Palace again , they told us what Her Majesty had said about us the first day we were there . 
Our first day there was a busy one for us . 
When we first arrived we went and thanked Her Majesty for the present that she had sent us . 
She asked me if I could speak Russian . 
I told her that I could not , but that most Russians spoke French , which seemed to satisfy her . 
I concluded that someone must be fooling her , for she seemed to appreciate the fact that I had told her the truth . 
This afterwards proved to be true and one of the Court ladies was dismissed for pretending she could talk foreign languages when she could not speak a word . 
Besides this audience there was the theatre and the engagement ceremony of Her Majesty's nephew , Ter Ju . 
The meaning of the symbol or sceptre Ru Yee is May all joy be yours . 
During this entire ceremony absolute silence is maintained and immediately they have finished , they return to the Palace and inform Her Majesty that the ceremony has been completed . 
CHAPTER FIVE AN AUDIENCE WITH THE EMPRESS No one informed us the day before that there was to be an audience to receive the Russian Minister's wife on that very day . 
We told Her Majesty that we must go and change our clothes in order to receive this lady . 
The dresses we wore that day were very simply made and short . 
We had made up our minds that short dresses for general wear every day would be more practical . 
Her Majesty said Why must you change your clothes ? I see you look much better without that tail dragging behind you on the floor . 
I laughed at the idea of having a tail on one's dresses . 
I noticed that the first day when you came to the Court . 
Then she said Go and put on your most beautiful gowns at once . 
We immediately went and changed . 
My sister and myself wore our pink crepe de chine gowns , trimmed with Brussels lace and transparent yokes of the same color chiffon . 
My mother wore her gray crepe de chine embroidered with black roses and a little touch of pale blue satin on her collar and belt . 
We dressed in a great hurry , as Her Majesty had sent eunuchs to see if we were ready . 
When she saw us she exclaimed Here are three fairies with long tails . 
I wonder what these foreigners will think of me having you dressed in their costume . 
I am sure they won't like the idea . 
My reason is this I want them to see you in foreign clothes in order to let them understand I know something about the way they dress . 
I must say that no foreign ladies have yet been presented to me dressed in such lovely gowns as you three have . 
I don't believe foreigners are as wealthy as the Chinese . 
I also notice they wear very little jewelry . 
I was told that I have more jewelry than any sovereign in the world and yet I am getting more all the time . 
We were very busy getting ready to receive Mdme . 
The Emperor was present , sitting on Her Majesty's left hand and I stood on her right to interpret for her . 
and trimmed with gold braid . 
Her hair was dressed in the same style as usual . 
Plancon entered the hall , my sister brought her to the steps of the dais and she courtesied to Her Majesty . 
I then went forward and brought her up onto the dais and Her Majesty shook hands with her and she presented the photograph which she had brought to Her Majesty . 
Her Majesty made a very pretty speech of acceptance , expressing her appreciation of the gift of their Majesties , the Czar and Czarina . 
I interpreted this speech in French to Mdme . 
Plancon , as she could not speak English . 
After this , Her Majesty told me to take Mdme . 
Plancon to the Emperor , which I did . 
He stood up when she came near and shook hands with her and asked after their Majesties' health . 
This over , Her Majesty stepped down from her throne and took Mdme . 
From there we went to the banquet hall , where luncheon was served in Manchu style . 
Here I must explain the difference between the Chinese way of eating and the Manchu . 
The Manchus eat quite differently and are served with individual bowls and dishes , the same as in any other country . 
Her Majesty was very proud of this and said that it saved time , not to mention being cleaner . 
Her Majesty had given me the order that morning to have the tables nicely decorated and they did look very nice when we sat down . 
Besides the usual tableware , we had gold dragon menu holders , little peach shaped silver saucers filled with almonds and dried watermelon seeds , and knives and forks in addition to chopsticks . 
Her Majesty and the Emperor never ate with guests , so Mdme . 
Plancon was entertained by the Imperial Princess and the Court ladies . 
When luncheon was half over a eunuch came and told me that Her Majesty wanted to see me at once . 
She told me what a nice , polite lady Mdme . 
She said They seem to think we are only Chinese and do not know anything , and look down upon us . 
I notice these things very quickly and am surprised to see people who claim to be well educated and civilized acting the way they do . 
I think we whom they call barbarians are much more civilized and have better manners . 
After she had finished saying this , she gave me a beautiful piece of green jade to give to Madame Plancon . 
When I gave it to her , she said she wished to thank Her Majesty , and I took her to the Palace again . 
Her Majesty had made a rule or custom that after all guests had departed , we must go to her and report everything . 
I suppose she was like all women , a bit of a gossip as well as the rest it appeared so at any rate . 
She wanted to know what Mdme . 
Plancon said , whether she liked the jade and whether she enjoyed her luncheon , etc . 
Her Majesty was very well pleased that I had interpreted so well for her and said I have never had anyone to interpret for me this way before . 
Although I don't understand the language , I can see that you speak it fluently . 
How did you learn ? I will never let you go away from me any more . 
I afterwards told my mother about it and she told me not to worry , as I could always refuse when the time came . 
When we had told Her Majesty all that Mdme . 
We courtesied to her according to the custom when saying good night , and retired . 
He also said his name was Li , but as there were so many by this name , including the head eunuch , it was very hard to tell them apart . 
I could not understand why it had taken us so long to come , when the Palace was so near , and asked him about it . 
The view on the lake was beautiful and I told him I liked it much better the way it was . 
He smiled and said You will have to learn a lot before you find out this wicked place . 
I was surprised at what the eunuch said , but did not like to ask him any questions . 
He also told us that the Emperor's Palace was just behind our place and was a large building similar to Her Majesty's Palace . 
We looked and could see the trees of his courtyard above the roof . 
It had two buildings flanking it on each side and the eunuch told us that the one on the left was the Secondary Wife's bedroom . 
, as the eunuchs called Her Majesty , had blocked it up so that the Emperor and Empress could not communicate with each other , except through Her Majesty's own Palace . 
I suppose this was the way she kept watch over them and knew at all times what they were doing . 
This was all news to me and I did not know what to think of it . 
All the bedrooms were just alike . 
was made of brick covered with the same kind of wood and ran along the wall under the front window . 
It had high teaster posts with slats running across on which red curtains were hung . 
These kongs are very curiously built . 
They are made of brick and have a hole in the front center in which fire is placed to heat the brick in winter time . 
During the day a sort of table is placed on top of the kong and removed again at night . 
Shortly after we had gone to our rooms , some eunuchs came and brought our dinner , which they placed on a table in the center of the hall . 
They told us the food had been sent by Her Majesty and that she had ordered them to tell us to make ourselves comfortable . 
Immediately after this we went to bed , but did not sleep immediately , as we wanted to talk over the events of the day , which had been many and strange . 
After we did finally get to bed , it seemed as if we had just fallen asleep when I heard someone knocking on my window . 
I woke up with a start and asked what the matter was and a eunuch told me it was five o'clock and time to get up . 
I immediately got up and opened my window and looked out . 
The day was just dawning and the sky was a beautiful deep red which was reflected in the lake , which was perfectly calm . 
The scenery was lovely and in the distance I could see Her Majesty's peony mountain , which was literally covered with these beautiful flowers . 
I dressed at once and went to Her Majesty's Palace and there met the Young Empress sitting on the veranda . 
I courtesied to her as a good morning salute . 
The Emperor's Secondary wife was there also , but we had been ordered not to courtesy to her , as she was considered not to have any standing there . 
There was also a number of young Court ladies , many of whom I had never seen before . 
The Young Empress introduced me to them , saying that they were also Court ladies . 
They were daughters of high Manchu officials and some were very pretty and bright . 
were never allowed to go near Her Majesty , as they were just learning the court etiquette . 
They were all dressed very nicely in pretty Manchu gowns , the same design as that worn by the Young Empress . 
Both were busy getting things ready for Her Majesty . 
Her Majesty was still in bed and smiled to us and asked us if we had slept well . 
We told her the rooms were very comfortable , etc . 
I thought to myself , we had slept very well for the little time we had , but I had not had half enough . 
The day before had been very hard for us and we were quite unused to it and it had made us very lame and sore running around so much . 
She asked us if we had had any breakfast and we told her not yet . 
She scolded Li for not having given the order for our breakfast to be brought to our rooms and said You must not feel like strangers , order anything you may want . 
Then she arose and started to dress . 
She put on her white silk socks first , having slept in her pantaloons as is the custom , and tied them at the ankle with pretty ribbon . 
I must tell you here that although she always slept in her clothes , she changed them for clean ones every day . 
After she had dressed she walked over to a window in front of which were two long tables covered with toilet articles of every kind and description . 
When it comes your turn , you can superintend the others and don't have to do the work with your own hands . 
Then Her Majesty said to me Der Ling you are a great help to me in every way and I make you my first lady in waiting . 
You must not work too much for you will have to make all the arrangements for the audiences for foreigners and you will have to interpret for me . 
I also want you to look after my jewels and don't want you to do rough work at all . 
Roon Ling can choose what she likes to do . 
I have two more besides you , Sze Gurgur and Yuen Da Nai Nai , making four altogether and you must all work together . 
It is not necessary to be too polite to them and if they are not nice to you , you let me know . 
I am surprised to see what a perfect little Manchu lady you are , knowing even such small etiquette as this , although you have spent many years outside of China . 
As this would be one of my duties , I watched while the bed was being fixed . 
Then three thick mattresses made of yellow brocade were placed over the felt . 
After this came the sheets made of different colored soft silk , and over the whole thing was placed a covering of plain yellow satin embroidered with gold dragons and blue clouds . 
She had a great many pillows , all beautifully embroidered , which were placed on the bed during the daytime but had a particular one stuffed with tea leaves on which she slept . 
It is said that stuffing the pillow on which you sleep with tea leaves is good for the eyes . 
In addition to all these , she had another very curiously shaped pillow about twelve inches long in the middle of which was a hole about three inches square . 
I suppose in that way no one could come on her unawares . 
The odor from these bags was very strong and made one feel sick until they became used to it . 
Her Majesty was also very fond of musk and used it on all occasions . 
It took us about fifteen minutes to make the bed , and when I had finished , I turned around and saw that Her Majesty was dressing her hair . 
placed on and pinned through the knot with two large pins . 
Her Majesty always dressed her hair first and then washed her face . 
She was as fussy and particular as a young girl and would give it to the eunuch if he did not get it just to suit her . 
She had dozens of bottles of all kinds of perfume , also perfumed soap . 
When she had finished washing her face , she dried it on a soft towel and sprayed it with a kind of glycerine made of honey and flower petals . 
After that she put some kind of strong scented pink powder on her face . 
Well ! I like to dress myself up and to see others dress nicely . 
It always gives me pleasure to see pretty girls dressed nicely it makes you want to be young again yourself . 
I told her that she looked quite young and was still beautiful , and that although we were young we would never dare compare ourselves with her . 
After this Her Majesty took me into another room and showed me where her jewels were kept . 
This room was covered with shelves on three sides of the room from top to bottom , on which were placed piles of ebony boxes all containing jewels . 
Small yellow strips were pasted on some of the boxes on which was written the contents . 
The rest are all jewels which I wear on special occasions . 
There are about three thousand boxes in this room and I have a lot more locked up in my safety room , which I will show you when I am not busy . 
Then she said I am sorry you cannot read and write Chinese , otherwise I would give you a list of these things and you could keep a check on them . 
I was very much surprised at this and wondered who had told her I couldn't . 
While she was saying this , she was looking all around the room and I was sure she knew who it was that had told her , but she would not tell me . 
Then she said When we have time this afternoon , I will go over this list with you . 
Bring me those five boxes on the first row of shelves . 
I brought the boxes to her room and placed them on the table . 
She opened the first one and it contained a most beautiful peony made of coral and jade and each petal trembled like a real flower . 
This flower was made by stringing the petals which were made of coral on very fine brass wire , also the leaves which were made of pure jade . 
She took this flower and placed it on the right side of her headdress . 
Then she opened another box and took from it a magnificent jade butterfly made in the same way . 
The other two boxes contained bracelets and rings of different patterns . 
There was a pair of gold bracelets set with pearls , another pair set with jade , with a piece of jade hanging from the end of a small gold chain , etc . 
The last two contained chains of pearls , the like of which I never saw before , and I fell in love with them at once . 
At this juncture one of the Court ladies came in carrying several gowns for Her Majesty to select from . 
She looked at them and said that none of them suited her , to take them back and bring more . 
I had a look at them and thought they were perfectly lovely , such pretty colors and so beautifully embroidered . 
In a short while the same Court lady came back carrying more , and from these Her Majesty selected a sea green one embroidered all over with white storks . 
She put this gown on and looked at herself in the mirror for a while , then took off her jade butterfly . 
She said You see I am very particular about little details . 
The jade butterfly is too green and it kills my gown . 
Put it back in the box and bring me a pearl stork in No. box . 
I went back to the jewel room and fortunately found No. box and brought it to her . 
She opened the box and took from it a stork made entirely of pearls set in silver , the bird's bill being made of coral . 
The pearls making the body of the bird were so cleverly set that the silver could not be seen at all unless one looked at it very closely . 
It was a most magnificent piece of workmanship and the pearls were of perfect color and shape . 
Her Majesty took it and placed it in her hair and did look very graceful and pretty . 
Then she picked out a mauve colored short jacket , also embroidered with storks , which she put on over her gown . 
Her handkerchief and shoes were also embroidered with storks and when she was entirely dressed she looked like the stork lady . 
Just as she had finished dressing , the Emperor Kwang Hsu came into the bedroom dressed in his official clothes . 
These clothes were exactly like other official clothes , except that he had no button on his hat and did not wear the peacock feather . 
This was only one of her many peculiarities . 
I did not know whether to courtesy to the Emperor or not , not having received any orders as to what I should do . 
In a little while the Emperor went out and I followed him out into the hall and just as I was in the act of courtesying Her Majesty came out . 
She looked at me in a very peculiar way , as if she did not approve of what I had done , but said nothing . 
I felt very uncomfortable and made up my mind that being too polite did not always pay after all . 
I then returned to the room again and saw a small eunuch placing several yellow boxes on a table at the left side of the room . 
She opened these envelopes with an ivory paper knife and read their contents . 
They were memorials from the heads of the different Boards , or from the Viceroys of the different Provinces . 
The Emperor had come back and was standing at the side of this table and after she had finished reading , she handed them over to him . 
While all this was being done I stood at the back of her chair . 
I watched the Emperor as the different papers were handed to him and noticed that it did not take him very long to finish reading their contents . 
After he was finished reading the papers , they were placed back in the boxes . 
During all this time absolute silence was maintained . 
Just as they had finished the head eunuch came in , knelt down and announced that Her Majesty's chair was ready . 
She immediately got up and went out of the house , we following her , and I took her arm while she was descending the steps to go to her chair . 
When we arrived at the Audience Hall , we took our places behind the big screen and the audience commenced . 
I was very curious to find out just how the audiences were conducted and wanted to listen to what was going on , but the Court ladies would not leave me alone . 
Trust a woman for being inquisitive . 
I also saw the members of the Grand Council come in headed by Prince Ching , who was the Councillor in Chief . 
After the General had finished , Her Majesty talked with Prince Ching about the appointment of some minor officials , a list of whose names had been handed to her . 
Her Majesty said All right , I leave it all to you . 
Then I heard Her Majesty say to the Emperor , Is that correct ? and he replied , Yes . 
This finished the Audience for the morning and the Ministers and Grand Councillors took their leave . 
We came out from behind the screen to Her Majesty and she said that she wanted to go for a walk to get some fresh air . 
She wanted to change some of the flower jewels and I opened a box which one of the eunuchs had brought and took out some very dainty flowers made of pearls . 
I handed her one which she placed at the side of this knot , then she selected a jade dragonfly which she placed on the other side . 
She said these small flowers were favorites of hers and she liked to wear them when she took off her heavy headdress . 
I was watching her very closely and wondered what I was going to do with the flowers she had taken off . 
However , I saw a eunuch come in carrying these boxes and felt much relieved . 
I quickly placed the things in the boxes where they belonged . 
I saw she was talking to my mother , so I waited a little time and finally made up my mind I would risk it and take them back , which I did . 
As I was returning I met Her Majesty in the big courtyard . 
She had just changed her gown again and looked much shorter as she had also changed her shoes for ones with lower heels . 
This gown was made of heavy sky blue crepe with no embroidery at all , just trimmed with pale pink ribbons , and she looked very nice in it . 
When Her Majesty saw me , she asked me Where have you been ? I told her that I had just been putting her jewels away . 
Then she said Has anyone told you to put them away as soon as I am finished with them ? I forgot to tell you this morning , although I had meant to . 
Her Majesty looked at me and said I can see that these girls don't tell you anything and I am very glad to see that you have done just the right thing . 
That is why I thought someone must have told you what to do . 
Anything you want to know you can ask me , but don't talk to these mean people here . 
There is a nice place up there and I am sure you will like it . 
Come , let us go . 
The Emperor had gone back to his own Palace , and the head eunuch had also disappeared . 
As we were walking along , Her Majesty was talking and smiling as if she had never a care or trouble in the world , or any important questions of state to settle . 
I thought from what I had seen so far that she had a very sweet disposition . 
She looked back and said Just see how many people are following us . 
I turned and saw the same crowd that had accompanied Her Majesty earlier in the day to the Audience Hall . 
It was very prettily made of solid carved work from one end to the other . 
Electric lights were hanging from the ceiling at intervals , and when they were lighted at night , made a beautiful sight . 
Her Majesty was a very fast walker and we had to step lively to keep up with her . 
This stool she used to rest on when taking a walk . 
She asked me if I liked the Palace and whether I would be satisfied to live with her , etc . 
We finally arrived at the place where the marble boat was kept , and I was about finished . 
This boat was magnificent , being one mass of carved work , but the inside was all spoiled . 
Her Majesty showed us all over the boat , and whilst we were looking at the ruin , she said Look at those colored glasses in the windows and these beautiful paintings . 
They were all spoiled by the foreign troops in . 
I don't intend to have it repaired as I don't want to forget the lesson I have learned and this is a good reminder . 
After we had been standing there a few minutes , a eunuch who had been carrying the famous satin stool , came forward , and Her Majesty sat down to rest . 
While we were talking I noticed two large and very fancy looking boats approaching us , with several smaller ones coming along behind . 
As they came nearer I saw that they were also very beautifully made , and looked like floating pagodas of beautifully carved natural wood . 
The windows of the pagodas were hung with red gauze curtains and all was trimmed with silk . 
Her Majesty said There are the boats . 
We must go over to the west side of the lake and have luncheon . 
Her Majesty got up and walked to the edge of the lake , two eunuchs supporting her , one at each side . 
She stepped into the boat and we all followed her example . 
The inside of the boat was very nicely furnished with carved ebony furniture with blue satin cushions , one with many pots of flowers on both sides of the window . 
There were two more cabins behind this sitting room . 
Her Majesty told me to go in to see those two rooms . 
One little room was a dressing room full of toilet articles . 
The other one had two couches and several small chairs for Her Majesty to rest whenever she felt tired . 
Her Majesty sat on her throne and ordered us to sit on the floor . 
The eunuchs brought in red satin cushions for us to sit upon . 
Her Majesty noticed how very uncomfortable we looked sitting on the floor . 
She said You can stand up if you want to and just watch those boats following us . 
I put my head out of the window and noticed the Young Empress and several other Court ladies were in the other boat . 
They waved to me , and I waved back . 
Her Majesty laughed and said to me I give you this apple to throw to them . 
While saying this she took one from the big plates that stood upon the center table . 
I tried very hard , but the apple did not reach the other boat , but went to the bottom of the lake . 
Her Majesty laughed and told me to try again , but I failed . 
Finally , she took one and threw it herself . 
It went straight to the other boat and hit one of the ladies' head . 
We all laughed quite heartily . 
Then I began to enjoy myself . 
There were several open boats full of eunuchs , and another one of servant girls , amahs and the rest with Her Majesty's luncheon . 
The lake was beautiful and looked so green in the sun . 
I told Her Majesty that this color reminded me of the sea . 
She said You have travelled so much , and yet you have not had enough , but are still thinking of the sea . 
You must not go abroad any more , but stay with me . 
I want you to enjoy this sailing on this lake instead of the rough sea . 
I promised her that I would be only too happy to stay with her . 
I was so extremely happy there that even Paris pleasures had gone out of my memory entirely . 
At last we arrived at another part of the lake . 
This was more of a stream , very narrow , just wide enough for one boat to pass . 
On both sides of the bank were planted drooping willow trees that reminded me of the Chinese Fairy tales I have read . 
This time I saw the servant girls , amahs , and also eunuchs carrying boxes , walking on both sides of the shore . 
Only two boats were going then , the Young Empress' and ours . 
Her Majesty said We will arrive at the bottom of the hill in a few minutes . 
When we came near the shore I saw her yellow chair and several red chairs waiting . 
We landed and walked to the chairs . 
I watched Her Majesty get into hers and noticed this was not the same chair she used this morning . 
I give you and your daughters special favor and give you a red chair with red cord that I have given to only a few people . 
The Young Empress looked at us , which I understood at once was meant for us to kowtow to her , which we did , and waited until the Empress got into hers . 
Then we went to search for ours . 
To my surprise our own eunuchs were standing waiting beside our chairs . 
On the poles I noticed that my name was written and I asked our eunuch the reason . 
He said that Her Majesty gave the order the night before . 
It was a lovely ride going to the top of the hill . 
I saw Her Majesty's chair in front , and the Young Empress' . 
I was quite nervous and was very much afraid that they might fall off and injure me . 
Our eunuchs were walking beside our chairs . 
I said to one of them that I was afraid the chair bearers might slip . 
He told me that these chair bearers practice for such purposes and that there was no danger at all . 
At last we arrived at the top of the hill . 
This Palace had only two rooms , with windows on every side . 
Her Majesty used one large one to take her luncheon in and the other as a toilet room . 
I noticed that wherever we went we found Her Majesty's toilet room . 
Her Majesty took us around the compound and showed us the lovely flowers planted everywhere . 
One of the young eunuchs told me that Her Majesty's dainties were ready . 
That was my first day of real work . 
I went out and found two large yellow boxes of different kinds of candies and fruits , as I have before mentioned . 
I carried two plates at a time , and finished in nine times , placing them on a square table near her . 
She was talking to my mother then about flowers . 
I noticed that although she was talking , she was watching me at the same time . 
I placed the plates upon the table very carefully , and already having noticed the day before what were her favorite dishes , and placed these near her . 
She smiled at me and said You have done it very nicely . 
and are not like the crowd I have here they haven't the brains of a bird . 
She was soon busy eating , and gave me some candies , and told me to eat right there in her presence . 
Of course I never forgot to thank her , for I thought I had rather thank her too much than too little . 
She told me Whenever I give you small things you need not kowtow . 
Just say Hsieh Lao Tsu Tsung Shang' , that is enough . 
After a little while she finished eating , and told me to take the dishes away . 
She said To day is your day , so these things are yours . 
Take them out and sit down on the veranda and enjoy yourself . 
You see I could not eat all . 
There are lots of things left . 
If you like you can tell your own eunuch to send them to your room . 
I placed the little dishes back in the boxes and took them to the veranda . 
There I placed them upon the table and told the Young Empress to eat some . 
I did not know whether it was right to offer them to her or not and thought I could not do her any harm , even if I tried . 
She said all right , that she would eat some . 
I took a piece of candy and had just put it into my mouth when I heard Her Majesty calling my name . 
I hurried in and found her sitting at her table ready to take her lunch . 
She said What else did Mdme . 
I don't mind owning up that I like our old ways the best , and I don't see any reason why we should adopt the foreign style . 
She looked quite serious and it seemed to me she was quite annoyed . 
I assured her that no one ever said anything about Her Majesty but nice things . 
The foreigners told me how nice she was , and how graceful , etc . 
I can't worry too much , but I hate to see China in such a poor condition . 
Although the people around me seem to comfort me by telling that almost every nation feels very friendly towards China , I don't think that is true . 
I hope we will be strong some day . 
While she was saying this I noticed her worried expression . 
I did not know what to say , but tried to comfort her by saying that that time will come , and we are all looking forward to it . 
Something told me to be silent . 
I kept thinking all the time she was talking to me , and finally made up my mind that the time was not yet ripe for me to make any suggestion . 
I had grown to love her very much , so I wanted to take care not to offend her that would probably finish my ambition . 
I wanted to study her first thoroughly and then try to influence her to reform China . 
I stood all the time while she was eating . 
One corner was turned in , and a golden butterfly was fastened to it . 
It had a hook at the back of this butterfly so as to hook on her collar . 
She said I am sure you must be hungry . 
Go and tell the Young Empress and the rest of the people to come and eat . 
You can eat anything you want from these tables , so eat all you can . 
I was very , very hungry . 
Just imagine , I had been up since o'clock and had only a light breakfast , and had walked a great deal . 
It was almost noon when Her Majesty sat down at her table . 
She ate so slowly , too . 
While I stood there talking to her I thought she would never finish . 
She ate a good meal . 
The Young Empress stood at the head of the table , and we all stood on either side . 
We did not like to be forward , so we stood at the other end of the table . 
The food was very much the same as the first day we were there . 
Her Majesty came out from the inner room , had just finished washing her face and hands , and had changed into another gown . 
This one was simple , but very pretty . 
It was woven with pink and gray raw silks , which gave it a changeable light whenever she moved . 
So we moved from our end of the table to the other . 
Her Majesty stood near me , and pointed to a smoked fish and wanted me to try it , as it was her favorite , and said Make yourselves at home . 
You know you have to fight your own battles here with this crowd . 
Of course you can come and tell me if anyone does not treat you fair . 
Her Majesty then went out , saying that she would walk a bit . 
I noticed that some of the court ladies did not look pleased , seeing that Her Majesty paid so much attention to us . 
I could see they were a little jealous of me , but that did not worry me in the least . 
I would not give them the chance . 
I heard Her Majesty talking to the eunuchs who looked after the garden , about some branches which ought to be cut down , saying they were lazy . 
So we went to her . 
She said to us You see I have to look after everything myself , if not , my flowers would be ruined . 
I can't depend on them at all . 
I wonder what they are good for . 
They ought to look around every day and cut down the dead branches and leaves . 
They have not been punished for several days and they are looking forward to it . 
She laughed and said I will not disappoint them , but give them all they wish to have . 
I thought these people must be idiots , looking forward to a whipping , and wondered who would whip them . 
She said That is nothing . 
The convicts are not half so wicked as these eunuchs . 
Of course they deserve a heavier punishment when they are bad . 
Her Majesty sat on her throne and said to me I will show you how to play this game . 
In the center of the map was written the direction of the game . 
It said This game is called the Eight Fairies Travel across the Sea . 
The names are Lu Hsien , Chang Hsien , Li Hsien , Lan Hsien , Hang Hsien , Tsao Hsien and Hain Hsien . 
These seven were masculine fairies . 
Hor Hsien was the only lady fairy . 
This map was the map of the Chinese Empire , and the names of the different provinces were written on the drawing . 
There were eight pieces of round ivory , about one inch and a half in diameter and a quarter of an inch thick . 
The names of these fairies were engraved upon them . 
This game could be played either by eight people or four people , when each person had to take two fairies' places , instead of one . 
A porcelain bowl was placed in the center of the map , to compare the point by throwing six dice into the bowl . 
For instance , four people play . 
One throws these six dice into the bowl and counts the points on them . 
The highest that one could get was , and should be thrown the fairy should go to Hangehow to enjoy the beautiful scenery . 
This person threw dice for Lu Hsien and had points and placed this ivory piece of Lu Hsien on Hangehow upon the map . 
The same person has to throw another time for another fairy , so each person throws twice if four people play the game , and once if played by eight . 
These different points count different provinces . 
They are counted thus Six dice alike . 
One pair in six dice , to three pairs . 
The lowest was the double , , . 
If any unfortunate fairy got this he should go on exile and be left out altogether . 
Any one of the fairies that travelled round the map to reach the Imperial Palace , the first , was the winner . 
I read this to Her Majesty . 
She seemed to be quite pleased , and said I had no idea that you could read so well . 
This game was my own invention and I taught three Court ladies to play . 
I had a very hard time teaching them . 
I am sure you know how to play it now . 
I was very much surprised to hear that these Court ladies were as ignorant as this . 
I thought they must be excellent scholars , so did not dare to show my knowledge of Chinese literature . 
We began to play the game . 
The two fairies held by her were way ahead of ours . 
One of the Court ladies said to me You will be surprised to see that Lao Tsu Tsung is always the winner . 
Her Majesty smiled and said to me You will never be able to catch my fairies . 
She said You are the first day here to play this game and if any of your fairies beat any of mine I will give you a nice present , so hurry up . 
I did , but it came out something so different that it amused her a great deal . 
I had no idea how long we were playing this game . 
We counted who came next , and that was one of my fairies , so Her Majesty said to me I was sure you could not beat me , as no one could . 
Seeing that yours are next to mine , I will give you the present just the same . 
While she was saying this she told a servant girl to bring her some embroidered handkerchiefs . 
This girl brought several colored ones to her , and she asked me what color I preferred . 
She handed me a pink one and a pale blue one , all embroidered with purple wisteria , and said These two are the best , and I want you to take them . 
I was just going to thank her by bowing to the ground , but I found that my legs could not move . 
I tried hard and succeeded finally , with difficulty . 
Her Majesty laughed very heartily at me and said You see you are not accustomed to standing so long and you cannot bend your knees any more . 
She said You must go and sit on the veranda and rest a minute . 
I was only too glad to sit down , so I went to the veranda and found the Young Empress sitting there with several Court ladies . 
The Young Empress said You must be tired standing so long . 
Come and sit near me . 
My legs were very stiff and my back was tired . 
Of course Her Majesty did not know how uncomfortable we were while she was sitting on her cozy throne . 
Foreign attire is out of the question for the Imperial Palace of Peking . 
I had hoped that Her Majesty would tell us to change into our Manchu gowns . 
I wouldn't be squeezed that way for anything . 
Although she was saying such things she did not suggest that we should give them up , so we had to wait patiently for her orders . 
The Young Empress took her watch out of her pocket , and said to me This game has lasted just two hours . 
I said to her that it seemed to me longer than that . 
While we were talking I saw our own eunuchs bringing four round boxes , made of thin board , carried at each end of bamboo poles . 
They put them down near where we sat , and one of them brought me a cup of tea . 
When my mother and sister came the same eunuch brought another two cups , and there were several Court ladies talking with us . 
This eunuch did not give them any . 
He did not give any to the others . 
While we were talking Her Majesty came out . 
Before she reached the veranda I got up and told the Young Empress that Her Majesty was coming . 
I saw her first because I sat facing her back hall . 
Her Majesty said to us all It is almost three o'clock now , and I am going to rest a while . 
We all stood in a line for her to enter her chair , and then we went to ours . 
It was quite a fast ride and we got out of our chairs before arriving at the courtyard of her own Palace . 
We walked ahead of her chair and formed into another line for her to alight . 
She walked to her bedroom and we all followed . 
A eunuch brought her a cup of hot water and another brought a bowl of sugar . 
She took her golden spoon and took two teaspoonfuls of sugar and put it into her cup of hot water , and drank it very slowly . 
She said You know before one goes to sleep or ever lies down , sugar water will quiet one's nerves . 
I always take it , and find it very good indeed . 
She took the flowers off from her headdress and I fixed them back in their boxes at once , and placed them in the jewel room . 
When I came out of this jewel room she was in bed already , and said to us You all go and rest a while . 
I don't need you now . 
CHAPTER EIGHT THE COURT LADIES WE retired from her room , but I noticed that two of the Court ladies did not come out with us . 
One of them said to me I am glad that I can rest a bit to day , for I have been sitting three afternoons in succession . 
At first I did not know what she meant . 
Then she said Oh , your turn has not come yet . 
We don't know whether you received the order or not . 
You know two of us must stay with Her Majesty during her afternoon siesta , to watch the eunuchs and the servant girls . 
I thought that was the funniest thing I had ever heard of , and wondered how many people would be in her room . 
The Young Empress said We had better go at once and rest ourselves , otherwise Her Majesty will be up again before we get the chance . 
Of course I had not the least idea how long she slept . 
So we went back to our rooms . 
I did not realize how tired I was until I sat down in my room . 
I felt finished and awfully sleepy at the same time , for I was not used to getting up at o'clock . 
Everything was so new to me . 
All the surroundings seemed new to me , seeing the eunuchs running here and there waiting on us , as if they were chambermaids . 
I told them that I didn't need them any more . 
I wanted them to go out of the room so that I could lie down a bit . 
They brought us tea and different kinds of candies , and asked what else was wanted . 
, and two Court ladies came , and another girl of about seventeen came in . 
I had seen her that very morning when I came to the Palace , busy working , but I was not introduced to her . 
These two girls said We have come to see you and also to find out if you are comfortable . 
I thought they were kind to come and see me that way , but I did not like their faces . 
They introduced this mean looking girl to me and told me her name was Chun Shou . 
She did not look as if her life would last long , being so thin and delicate . 
She looked sick and worn out to me . 
I did not know who she was . 
She courtesied to me and I returned to her , in a sort of half way . 
The two girls then said Chun Shou's father is only a small official , so she has not much standing at the Court . 
She is not exactly a Court lady , but she is not a servant girl either . 
I almost laughed right out , to hear such a funny statement , and wondered what she must be . 
I saw her sitting down with the Court ladies that very morning , so of course I asked her to sit down , too . 
These two Court ladies asked me if I felt tired , and how I liked the Empress Dowager . 
They looked at Chun Shou and exchanged smiles . 
They did that in such a peculiar way that it annoyed me . 
They laughed and said We pity you , and are sorry for you . 
You must not expect any appreciation here , no matter how hard you work . 
If you are really going to do as you have said just now , you will be disliked by everybody . 
I did not know what they were talking about , or what their conversation referred to . 
I thought this was so strange that I had better put a stop to it , so I immediately changed the subject . 
I asked them who dressed their hair , and who made their shoes for them , as they had asked me . 
They answered my questions by saying that their maids did everything for them . 
Chun Shou said to these two girls Tell her everything about this Palace , and I am sure she will change her mind when she actually sees things for herself . 
I didn't like this Chun Shou , and her face didn't impress me . 
She was a little bit of a thing , tiny head with thin lips . 
When she laughed one could only hear the noise she made no expression was on her face at all . 
I was just going to say something to them , so as not to give them the opportunity of gossiping , but found they were too cunning . 
They noticed that I tried every way to stop them , so they said Now let us tell you everything . 
No one else will know . 
We like you very much and we want to give you some warning , so as to be able to protect yourself whenever you are in trouble . 
I told them that I would take great care to do my work and didn't think that I would ever get into trouble . 
They laughed and said That makes no difference . 
Her Majesty will find fault . 
to find fault with such helpless girls as we were , for we were her people , and she could do anything she liked with us . 
They said You don't know , and have no idea how wicked this place is such torture and suffering one could not imagine . 
We are sure that you think you must be happy to be with the great Empress Dowager , and proud to be her Court Lady . 
Your day hasn't come yet , for you all are new to her . 
Yes , she is extremely kind to you just now , but wait until she gets tired of you and then see what she will do . 
We have had enough , and know what the Court life is . 
rules this Palace behind Lao Tsu Tsung's back . 
We are all afraid of him . 
He pretends that he cannot influence Lao Tsu Tsung , but we always know the result after a long conversation consulting how to punish anyone . 
If any of us do anything wrong , we always go to him and beg him to help us out . 
Then he says he has no power to influence Her Majesty , and also that he dare not tell her much , for she would scold him . 
We hate all the eunuchs , they are such bad people . 
We can see very plainly they are awfully polite to you because they can see that you are in favor . 
To receive such rudeness from them , constantly , as we do , is unbearable . 
Lao Tsu Tsung is very changeable . 
She may like one person to day , to morrow she hates this same person worse than poison . 
She has moods , and has no appreciation whatsoever . 
is afraid of Li Lien Ying , and has to be very nice to him . 
In fact , we all have to be polite to him . 
They talked so long that I thought they would never finish . 
About this time Wang came in and brought tea for us . 
Suddenly I heard people howling in the distance , so I asked Wang what was the matter . 
The girls were listening also and a eunuch came flying in and told us Lao Fo Yeh chin la . 
The girls got up and said we must all go to see her , so they went . 
I was not at all pleased with their visit , and wished they hadn't come , especially as they told me such horrible things . 
It made me quite sad to listen to the awful way they talked about Her Majesty . 
I loved her the first day I was there , and made up my mind to forget everything they had told me . 
I was cross also because I didn't have time to change my clothes , and had to go up to Her Majesty at once . 
I went into her bedroom , and found her sitting upon the bed cross legged , with a small table placed on the bed in front of her . 
She smiled and asked Have you had a good rest ? Did you sleep at all ? I said that I was not sleepy , and could not sleep in the daytime . 
She said When you are old like me , you will be able to sleep at any time . 
Just now you are young , and fond of play . 
I think you must have been on the hills to gather flowers , or walked too much , for you look tired . 
I could only say Yes . 
The two Court ladies who had just been talking nonsense about Her Majesty came in , to assist in handing her the toilet articles . 
I looked at them , and felt ashamed for them to face her , after having said so many disagreeable things . 
Her Majesty washed her face and combed her hair , and a servant girl brought her fresh flowers , of white jasmine and roses . 
Her Majesty stuck them in her hair and said to me I am always fond of fresh flowers better than jade and pearls . 
I love to see the little plants grow , and I water them myself . 
I have been so busy ever since you came that I haven't been able to visit my plants . 
Tell them to get the dinner ready and I will take a walk afterwards . 
I came out of her room and gave the eunuch the order . 
As usual we brought little dainties to her . 
By this time Her Majesty was dressed and was sitting in the large hall , playing solitaire with her dominoes . 
The eunuch laid the tables as usual , and Her Majesty stopped play , and commenced to eat . 
She asked me How do you like this kind of life ? I told her that I very much enjoyed being with her . 
The only thing I could say was Yes , because it wouldn't be nice to tell her that I was awfully sorry to leave Paris . 
She said I think we have everything in China , only the life is different . 
What is dancing ? Someone told me that two people hold hands and jump all over the room . 
If that is the case I don't see any pleasure in it at all . 
Do you have to jump up and down with men ? They told me that old women , with white hair , dance , too . 
I explained to her about the balls given by the President , and all the private dances , and also all about the masquerade balls , etc . 
Her Majesty said I don't like this masquerade ball because you don't know whom you are dancing with if they are wearing a mask . 
I explained to her how carefully the people issued their invitations , and that anyone who behaved badly could never enter into high society . 
I told her that Her Majesty wished to see how people dance , and that we must show her . 
The Young Empress and all the Court ladies heard this , and all said that they also wished to see . 
My sister said that she had noticed a large gramophone in Her Majesty's bedroom , and that perhaps we could find some music . 
I thought that was a good idea , and went to ask her for the gramophone . 
She ordered the eunuchs to have the gramophone brought to the hall , and said You jump while I take my dinner . 
We looked over a lot of records , but they were all Chinese songs , but at last we found a waltz , so we started to dance . 
We could see that a lot of people were looking at us , who perhaps thought that we were crazy . 
When we had finished we found Her Majesty laughing at us . 
She said I could never do that . 
Are you not dizzy turning round and round ? I suppose your legs must be very tired also . 
It is very pretty , and just like the girls used to do centuries ago in China . 
I object to the hand around the girl's waist I like to see the girls dance together . 
It would never do for China for a girl to get too close to a man . 
I know the foreigners don't seem to think about that at all . 
It shows that they are broader minded than us . 
Now I see just the same thing done by the common people in China . 
I wondered who had told her such nonsense and made her believe it . 
After we had taken our dinner it was just half past five , and Her Majesty said she would take a walk along the long veranda , so we followed her . 
She showed me her flowers , and said that she had planted them herself . 
Whenever Her Majesty went anywhere there was always a lot of attendants following her , exactly the same as when she went to the morning audiences . 
These summer houses were built of nothing but bamboo , all the furniture being made of different shaped bamboo . 
Her Majesty sat down , and one of the eunuchs brought tea and honeysuckle flowers . 
She ordered the eunuchs to give us tea also . 
Her Majesty said This is my simple way of enjoying life . 
I love to see the country scenery . 
There are a great many pretty places which I will show you and I am sure that after you have seen them you will not like foreign countries any more . 
There is no scenery in the world which can beat the Chinese . 
Some returned Ministers from abroad said to me that the trees and mountains in foreign countries looked ugly and savage . 
Next time tell them to carry your wraps along with you . 
I think that foreign clothes must be quite uncomfortable either too warm or too cold . 
I don't see how you can eat , having your waist squeezed that way . 
Her Majesty got up and we all went on walking slowly towards her own Palace . 
She sat down on her favorite little throne in the hall and started to play solitaire . 
You had better wear Manchu clothes , because they are comfortable and easy to work in . 
Look at your long train you have to take it up in your hands while walking . 
I told her that I would be only too pleased to change the clothes , but that not having received an order from Her Majesty I could not make any suggestions . 
The Young Empress said No , don't ask anything , and I am sure Her Majesty will tell you to change by and by . 
Just now she wishes to see your Paris gowns , because she wants to know how foreign ladies dress on different occasions . 
She thought that some of the ladies came to the Garden Party dressed in woolen clothes . 
We thought that foreign ladies were not so extravagant as we are until we met Mdme . 
Do you remember what Her Majesty said to you ? That Mdme . 
Plancon was so different from many ladies she had met , and also dressed differently . 
It was a chiffon dress , with hand paintings , which Mdme . 
Plancon wore , which pleased Her Majesty very much . 
While I was talking with the Young Empress all the electric lights turned up , so I went to Her Majesty to see if she needed anything . 
She said Let us play a game of dice before I go to bed . 
We began to play the same thing as we had done in the afternoon . 
Her Majesty won another game , this time it took only an hour to finish the game . 
Her Majesty said to me Why can't you win once ? I knew she wanted to tease , so I said that my luck was bad . 
She laughed and said To morrow you try to put your stocking on wrong side out that is a sure sign of winning . 
I told her that I would , and I knew that pleased her . 
During the short time I was there I kept studying her most of the while . 
I could see nothing would make her happier than for me to obey her orders . 
Her Majesty said that she felt tired , and that we must bring her milk . 
She said to me I want you to burn incense sticks and bow to the ground every night to the Buddha in the next room before I go to bed . 
I hope you are not a Christian , for if you are I can never feel as if you are mine at all . 
Do tell me that you are not . 
I did not expect that question at all , and I must say that it was a very difficult question to answer . 
For my own protection I had to say that I had nothing to do with the Christians . 
I felt guilty at having deceived her that way , but it was absolutely necessary , and there was no other way out of it . 
I knew that I had to answer her question at once , because it would never do for her to see any hesitation , which would arouse her suspicions . 
Although my face showed nothing , my heart stopped beating for a while . 
I felt ashamed to have fooled her . 
The earliest training I had was never to be ashamed to tell the truth . 
On the contrary , you still keep to your own . 
Be strong and keep it as long as you live . 
You have no idea how glad I am now , for I suspected you must believe in the foreign God . 
Even if you don't want to , they can make you believe it . 
Now I am ready for bed . 
We helped her to undress , and I , as usual , put away her jewels , and noticed she wore only one pair of jade bracelets to sleep . 
She changed into her bed clothes and lay down between the silk covers and said to us You can go now . 
We courtesied to her and withdrew from her bedroom . 
Out in the hall there was on the cold stone floor six eunuchs . 
They were the watchmen and must not sleep at all during the night . 
In her bedroom were two eunuchs , two servant girls , two old women servants and sometimes two Court ladies . 
These people also must not sleep . 
They all took turns , and that was the reason why sometimes two Court ladies must sit overnight when it happened that the eunuchs were not reliable . 
Her Majesty trusted the Court ladies the most . 
I was never more surprised in my life than when one of these six eunuchs told me in the hall , for I had asked what they were all doing there . 
While saying this she smiled in a most peculiar way . 
I did not understand at the time , but found out later . 
It was my turn this morning . 
I knew that she was very tired , having had a very trying time the day before , so I had to make a little more noise than usual when waking her . 
She was very angry and scolded me dreadfully when she arose , as it was rather late . 
This very often happens when Her Majesty gets up late , as she always says that we do not make enough noise to wake her . 
However , I don't think she will do this to you , just now , as you are new here but wait until you have been here a few months . 
CHAPTER NINE THE EMPEROR KWANG HSU THE next day I arose earlier than usual and dressed in a great hurry , as I feared I might be late . 
When I got to Her Majesty's Palace there were a few Court ladies there sitting on the veranda . 
They smiled and asked me to sit down with them as it was still too early , being only five o'clock . 
I had been told to wake Her Majesty at five thirty . 
The Young Empress came up a few minutes later and we all courtesied and wished her good morning . 
After talking with us a few minutes , she asked if Her Majesty was awake and which one of us was on duty that day . 
When I informed her that it was my turn , she immediately ordered me to go to Her Majesty's room at once . 
I went very quietly and found some servant girls standing about and one Court lady , who was sitting on the floor . 
She had been on duty all night . 
After this Court lady had gone , I went near to the bed and said Lao Tsu Tsung , it is half past five . 
She was sleeping with her face toward the wall , and without looking to see who had called her , she said Go away and leave me alone . 
I did not tell you to call me at half past five . 
Call me at six , and immediately went off to sleep again . 
I waited until six and called her again . 
She woke and said This is dreadful . 
What a nuisance you are . 
After she had said this , she looked around and saw me standing by the bed . 
I made no reply to this . 
I got along as best I could that day and found it no easy matter , as Her Majesty was very exacting in everything . 
I think that as soon as my head touched the pillow I was asleep . 
The following day there was the same thing , the usual audience in the morning , of course busy all the time , which went on for fifteen days before I realized it . 
I began to take great interest in the Court life , and liked it better every day . 
Her Majesty was very sweet and kind to us always , and took us to see the different places in the Summer Palace . 
We went to see Her Majesty's farm , situated on the west side of the lake , and had to cross over a high bridge to get there . 
Her Majesty often took us under this bridge in a boat , or we walked round on the border . 
She seemed very fond of sitting on the top of this bridge on her stool and taking her tea , in fact this was one of her favorite places . 
She cooked these things herself in one of the courtyards . 
I thought that was good fun , and also turned up my sleeves to help her cook . 
We brought fresh eggs also from the farm and Her Majesty taught us how to cook them with black tea leaves . 
Her Majesty's cooking stoves were very peculiar . 
They were made of brass , lined with bricks . 
They could be moved anywhere , for they had no chimneys . 
Her Majesty said I like the country life . 
It seems more natural than the Court life . 
I am always glad to see young people having fun , and not such grand dames when we are by ourselves . 
Although I am not young any more , I am still very fond of play . 
Her Majesty would taste first what we had been cooking , and would give us all to taste . 
She asked Do you not think this food has more flavor than that prepared by the cooks ? We all said it was fine . 
So we spent the long days at the Court having good fun . 
I saw Emperor Kwang Hsu every morning , and whenever I had the time he would always ask some words in English . 
I was surprised to learn that he knew quite a bit of spelling , too . 
I found him extremely interesting . 
He had very expressive eyes . 
He was entirely a different person when he was alone with us . 
He would laugh and tease , but as soon as he was in the presence of Her Majesty he would look serious , and as if he were worried to death . 
At times he looked stupid . 
I was told by a great many people who were presented to him at the different audiences that he did not look intelligent , and that he would never talk . 
I knew better , for I used to see him every day . 
I was at the Court long enough to study him , and found him to be one of the most intelligent men in China . 
He was a capital diplomat and had wonderful brains , only he had no opportunities . 
Now a great many people have asked me the same question , if our Emperor Kwang Hsu had any courage or brains . 
Of course outsiders have no idea how strict the law is , and the way we have to respect our parents . 
He was compelled to give up a great many things on account of the law . 
I have had many long talks with him and found him a wise man , with any amount of patience . 
His life was not a happy one ever since his childhood his health was poor . 
He told me that he never had studied literature very much , but it came natural to him . 
He was a born musician and could play any instrument without studying . 
He loved the piano , and was always after me to teach him . 
There were several beautiful grand pianos at the Audience Hall . 
He had very good taste for foreign music , too . 
I taught him some easy waltzes and he kept the time beautifully . 
I found him a good companion and a good friend , and he confided in me and told me his troubles and sorrows . 
We talked a great deal about western civilization , and I was surprised to learn he was so well informed in everything . 
He used to tell me , time after time , his ambitions for the welfare of his country . 
He loved his people and would have done anything to help them whenever there was famine or flood . 
I noticed that he felt for them . 
I know that some eunuchs gave false reports about his character , that he was cruel , etc . 
I had heard the same thing before I went to the Palace . 
He was kind to the eunuchs , but there was always that distinction between the master and the servants . 
He would never allow the eunuchs to speak to him unless they were spoken to , and never listened to any kind of gossip . 
I lived there long enough , and I know just what kind of cruel people those eunuchs were . 
They had no respect for their master . 
They came from the lowest class of people from the country , had no education , no morals , no feeling for anything , not even between themselves . 
The majority of the people living in Peking get all kinds of information through them . 
I have witnessed the same thing many a time during my stay at the Palace . 
One day during the time of Her Majesty's afternoon rest we heard a dreadful noise . 
It sounded just like the firing off of fire crackers . 
Such a noise was quite unusual in the Palace for such things are not allowed to be brought into the Palace grounds . 
Of course Her Majesty woke up . 
In a few seconds time everyone became excited and were running to and fro as if the building was on fire . 
Her Majesty was furious and ordered us to bring the yellow bag to her . 
This bag was carried everywhere Her Majesty went , to be handy in case of emergency . 
Everyone of us knew where this bag was kept . 
We took all the sticks from the bag and Her Majesty ordered us to go to the courtyard and beat the eunuchs . 
It was such a funny sight to see all the Court ladies and servant girls each with a stick trying to separate the excited crowd . 
On my part I thought I was having good fun so I laughed and found the rest were laughing too . 
Her Majesty was standing on the veranda watching us but she was too far away to see well and with all that noise , we knew she could not hear us laughing . 
We tried our best to separate the crowd , but were laughing so much we did not have enough strength to hurt any of them . 
Everyone of them became frightened and stood there like statues . 
We stopped laughing , too , and turned back each with a stick in our hand , walking toward Her Majesty . 
Li Lien Ying was having a nap , too , and had heard the noise and had come to enquire what the trouble was and to report it to Her Majesty . 
It seemed one of the young eunuchs caught a crow . 
They always set traps to catch them and then tied a huge fire cracker to their legs , set fire to the cracker and then set the unfortunate birds free . 
Naturally the poor birds would be glad to fly away and by the time the powder exploded would be high up in the air and the poor bird would be blown to pieces . 
It seemed this was not the first time the eunuchs had played this cruel trick . 
I was told it always delighted them so much to see blood and torture . 
They always invited others to drink some wine with them to celebrate an occasion such as this . 
After the head eunuch had told Her Majesty what had happened , she was very angry and ordered that this young eunuch be brought in and receive punishment in her presence . 
I noticed one of the head eunuch's attendants push the culprit out from the crowd . 
The victim never uttered a word while this was going on . 
The head eunuch counted until this man had received one hundred blows , then he gave orders to stop . 
Her Majesty said that it was not his fault and ordered him to take the offender away . 
During all this time the offender was still on the ground , and did not dare to move . 
Two eunuchs each took hold of a foot and dragged him out of the courtyard . 
No one was surprised at what had happened , as we were accustomed to seeing it almost every day and were quite used to it . 
I used to pity them , but I changed my mind very soon after I had arrived . 
I thought that was too funny for anything and wanted to laugh the worst way , but of course did not dare . 
That night I asked those two girls how they felt slapping each other that way . 
The reason why I asked them was because they were laughing and joking as usual immediately they were out of Her Majesty's bedchamber . 
They told me that was nothing that they were quite used to it and never bothered themselves about such small things . 
I in turn soon became used to it , and was as callous as they were . 
Now regarding the servant girls , they are a much better class of people than the eunuchs . 
They are the daughters of Manchu soldiers , and must stay ten years at the Palace to wait upon Her Majesty , and then they are free to marry . 
One got married after my first month at the Court . 
Her Majesty gave her a small sum of money , five hundred taels . 
This girl was so attached to Her Majesty that it was very hard for her to leave the Court . 
She was an extremely clever girl . 
Her name was Chiu Yuen . 
Her Majesty named her that because she was so very delicate looking and slight . 
I liked her very much during the short time that we were together . 
She told me not to listen to anyone's gossip at the Court , also that Her Majesty had told her she was very fond of me . 
On the twenty second day of the third moon she left the Palace , and we were all sorry to lose her . 
Her Majesty did not realize how much she missed her until after she had gone . 
For a few days we had nothing but troubles . 
It seemed as if everything went wrong . 
Her Majesty was not at all satisfied without Chiu Yuen . 
Unfortunately , she stopped us , and said You have enough to do of your own work , and I do not want you to help the servants . 
You don't please me a bit that way . 
It isn't that they cannot do their work . 
They are all afraid to take Chiu Yuen's place . 
Now I have found them out , and I will only keep the stupid ones to wait on me from now . 
I almost laughed when I noticed that they all looked serious for a moment . 
I thought these people must be really stupid , and not lazy , but I had dealings with them every day and found them out all right . 
The eunuchs don't seem to have any brains at all . 
They are such queer people and have no feelings . 
They have the same mood all day long I should say they are in a cruel mood . 
and as soon as they got to our waiting room they would say to each other What was the order ? I have forgotten all about it . 
Then they used to come to one of us who had happened to be present when the order was given Please tell us what the order was . 
I did not listen while Her Majesty was talking . 
We used to laugh and make fun of them . 
We knew they were afraid to ask Her Majesty , and of course we had to tell them . 
One of the eunuch writers had to keep writing down the orders that had been given during the day , for Her Majesty wanted to keep records of everything . 
There were twenty eunuchs who were educated and they were excellent scholars . 
These had to answer any questions which Her Majesty happened to ask them about Chinese literature , while she had a good knowledge of it herself . 
I noticed that it pleased her a great deal if anyone could not answer a question , or knew less than she did . 
She took delight in laughing at them . 
Her Majesty was also very fond of teasing . 
She knew that the Court ladies did not know very much about literature , so she used to try it on us . 
We had to say something whether it was appropriate to her questions or not , and that would make her laugh . 
She certainly admired clever girls , but she did not like those who would show their cleverness too much . 
How I won her heart was this way . 
and always carried out her orders properly . 
I noticed another thing , and that was that whenever she wanted anything to be brought to her , such as cigarettes , handkerchief , etc . 
, she would only look at the article and then look at anyone who happened to be there at the time . 
I got so used to her habits that after a short time I knew just what she wanted by looking at her eyes , and I was very seldom mistaken . 
This pleased her a great deal . 
She was strong minded , and would always act the way she thought was right , and had perfect confidence in herself . 
At times I have seen her looking very sad . 
She had strong emotions , but her will was stronger . 
She could control herself beautifully , and yet she liked people to sympathize with her only by actions , not by words , for she did not like anyone to know her thoughts . 
The first day of the fourth moon Her Majesty was worried over the lack of rain . 
She prayed every day after the audience for ten days , without any result . 
Every one of us kept very quiet . 
Her Majesty did not even give any orders that day , and spoke to no one . 
I noticed that the eunuchs were scared , so we went without our luncheon . 
I worked so hard that morning , and was so hungry in fact all the Court ladies were . 
I felt sorry for Her Majesty . 
Finally she told me I could go , as she wanted to rest a while , so we came back to our own quarters . 
I questioned our own eunuch Wang as to why Her Majesty was worrying about rain , for we were having lovely weather then , day after day . 
was worried for the poor farmers , as all their crops were dead without rain for so long . 
Wang also reminded me that it had not rained once since I came to live at the Palace . 
Her Majesty took very little food at dinner that night . 
There was not a sound anywhere , and everyone kept quiet . 
The Young Empress told us to eat as fast as we could , which puzzled me . 
That same night , before Her Majesty retired , she gave orders that no pigs were to be slaughtered within the gates of Peking . 
The reason of this was that by sacrificing ourselves by not eating meat the Gods would have pity on us and send rain . 
Also that the Emperor should go to the temple inside the Forbidden City , to perform a ceremony of sacrifice . 
He was not to eat meat or hold converse with anyone , and to pray to the Gods to be merciful and send rain to the poor farmers . 
, both in Manchu and Chinese , and all the eunuchs who went with the Emperor wore the same kind of tablets . 
The idea was that this jade tablet was to remind one to be serious in performing the ceremonies . 
The next morning Her Majesty got up very early and ordered me not to bring any jewels for her . 
She dressed herself in great haste . 
Her breakfast was very simple that day , just milk and steamed bread . 
Our own breakfast was cabbage and rice cooked together , with a little salt . 
Her Majesty did not talk to us at all , except when giving orders , and so , of course , we kept silent . 
Her Majesty wore a pale gray gown , made very plain , with no embroidery or trimmings of any kind . 
She wore gray shoes to match , not to mention her gray handkerchief . 
We followed her into the hall where a eunuch knelt with a large branch of willow tree . 
Her Majesty picked a little bunch of leaves and stuck it on her head . 
The Young Empress did the same , and told us to follow her example . 
Emperor Kwang Hsu took a branch and stuck it on his hat . 
After that Her Majesty ordered the eunuchs and the servant girls to do the same thing . 
It was a funny sight , and everyone did look queer with a bunch of leaves on the head . 
The head eunuch came and knelt in front of Her Majesty and said that everything was prepared for the ceremony in the little pavilion in front of her own palace . 
She told us that she preferred to walk , as she was going to pray . 
It took us only a few minutes to cross the courtyard . 
When we arrived at this pavilion I noticed a large square table was placed in the center of the room . 
A few large sheets of yellow paper and a jade slab , containing some vermilion powder instead of ink , with two little brushes to write with . 
At each side of the table stood a pair of large porcelain vases , with two large branches of willow . 
Of course no one was allowed to speak , but I was curious and wanted to find out why everyone had to wear the willow leaves on the head . 
Her Majesty's yellow satin cushion was placed in front of this table . 
She stood there and took a piece of sandalwood and placed it in the incense burner filled with live charcoal . 
The Young Empress whispered to me to go over and help Her Majesty to burn them . 
I placed several pieces in until she told me that was enough . 
Then Her Majesty knelt on her cushion , the Young Empress knelt behind her , and we all knelt in a row behind the Young Empress , and commenced to pray . 
We are willing to sacrifice for them . 
Pray Heaven send us rain . 
We repeated the same prayer three times , and bowed three times nine times in all . 
After that Her Majesty went to her usual morning audience . 
It was much earlier than usual that morning for the Court was returning to the Forbidden City at noon . 
His Majesty , the Emperor Kwang Hsu , was to pray at the Forbidden City and Her Majesty always wanted to accompany him wherever he went . 
It was nine o'clock in the morning when the audience was over . 
She ordered me not to bring any jewels for her to the Forbidden City this time , for she would not need them at all . 
We packed all her favorite things . 
Her gowns were the most important things to pack , she had so many and it was impossible to take all . 
I noticed that the Court lady who was looking after her gowns was the busiest amongst us . 
She had to select gowns enough to last four or five days . 
She told me that she had selected about fifty different ones . 
I told her that Lao Tsu Tsung might stay at the Forbidden City four or five days , and that she would not need so many gowns . 
She said it was safer to bring many , for one was not sure what would be Her Majesty's idea for the day . 
Packing at the Court was very simple . 
Eunuchs brought many yellow trays , which are made of wood , painted yellow , about five feet by four feet and one foot deep . 
We placed a large yellow silk scarf in the tray , then the gowns , and covered them with a thick yellow cloth . 
Everything was packed the same way . 
It took us about two hours to pack fifty six trays . 
These things always started off first , carried by the eunuchs . 
The Emperor's chair and the Young Empress' chair were of the same color as Her Majesty's . 
The Secondary wife of the Emperor had a deep yellow chair . 
The chairs of the Court ladies were red , and were carried by four chair bearers , instead of eight like their Majesties . 
Our own eunuchs also rode on horseback , behind us . 
We rode a long time , it seemed to me , before I noticed the Emperor's chair begin to descend from the stone paved road , and we all followed him . 
, to await Her Majesty's arrival . 
We alighted from our chairs and started at once to prepare Her Majesty's tea and her little dishes . 
I went to help her to alight , and supported her right arm to mount the steps . 
Her Majesty sat on Her Throne , and we placed a table in front of her and my sister brought her tea . 
We placed all the dainties in front of her , and then we went to rest . 
Her Majesty always stopped at this temple on the way from the Summer Palace to the Forbidden City . 
CHAPTER TEN THE YOUNG EMPRESS I THOUGHT of so many things while I was riding in my chair . 
It was a glorious day . 
I felt sorry for Her Majesty , for she was very quiet that day . 
Generally she was happy , and made everyone laugh with her . 
I thought about the branches of willow , too , but could not understand the meaning . 
When they saw me they made signs for me to go there . 
I found them all drinking tea , and the Young Empress said to me , I am sure you must be tired and hungry . 
Come and sit near me and have a cup of tea . 
I thanked her and sat down beside her and we talked of what we saw on the roads and how we had enjoyed our long ride . 
She said We have still an hour's ride before we reach the Forbidden City . 
She also talked about the ceremony we had performed that morning and said that we must all pray earnestly for rain . 
I could not wait any longer , so I asked her what those branches of willow meant . 
She also told me that we must perform the same ceremony every morning until the rain came . 
I found the food very nice indeed , although it seemed rather funny without having meat . 
We came out into the courtyard and saw that Her Majesty was walking up and down . 
She said to us My legs are so stiff , riding in the chair . 
I must walk a little before we leave here . 
Are you all tired ? We told her that we were not tired , so she ordered us to walk with her . 
It looked very funny to see us walking round and round , Her Majesty in front , and we following her . 
Her Majesty turned and smiled at us , and said We are just like horses taking their rounds at a stable . 
It reminded me of a circus . 
All the chairs went very fast , and after an hour's ride we came near the Palace Gate . 
We followed the Emperor's chair , taking a shorter route , and noticed the gate was wide open . 
His Majesty , the Emperor , and the Young Empress' chairs went in , but we had to alight and walk in . 
There were small chairs waiting for us . 
We came to the courtyard of the Audience Hall where the Emperor and the Empress were waiting for us . 
As usual His Majesty knelt in front . 
Behind him was the Young Empress , and we knelt in a row behind her , waiting to welcome Her Majesty to her Palace . 
She went to her room where the eunuchs had placed everything in order long before her arrival . 
We held the ceremony that afternoon and evening . 
After Her Majesty had retired we came back to our rooms and found that everything was in order , our eunuchs had made up our beds already . 
It was very nice to have them , for we could not do our own work at all . 
I was so tired and my limbs were stiff . 
I immediately went to sleep and did not realize how long I had slept until I heard someone knocking at my window . 
I got up and pulled the blind away . 
I noticed that the sky looked dull and thought it was clouded . 
I felt happy , and thought it might rain , and so relieve Her Majesty . 
I got dressed in great haste , but much to my disappointment I saw the sunshine on the opposite windows . 
The Palace in the Forbidden City was so old , and built in such a queer way . 
The courtyards were small , and the verandas very broad . 
All the rooms were dark . 
We had to use candle light . 
One could not see the sky except by going into the courtyard and looking up . 
I found that I had risen before the sun was up , and I was not quite awake yet , and thought the sky was clouded . 
I went to Her Majesty's own Palace and found the Young Empress already there . 
She was always the first and always looked so tidy I often wondered how early she had to get up . 
She told me that I was not late , although Her Majesty was awake but not up yet . 
I went into her bedroom and made my usual morning courtesy to her . 
The first thing she asked me was about the weather . 
I had to tell her the truth that there was no sign of rain . 
Her Majesty got up , dressed , and had her breakfast as usual , and told us there would be no audience that morning . 
The Emperor went to the Temple , sacrificing , and there was nothing important to attend to . 
We prayed for three days in succession , but no rain came . 
I found that Her Majesty was truly discouraged , and ordered each of us to pray twenty times a day . 
We marked a spot with vermilion powder and a little water on big yellow sheets of paper each time we prayed . 
On the sixth day of the fourth moon the sky was clouded . 
I ran to Her Majesty's bedroom that morning to tell her the news , but found that someone had told her already . 
She smiled , and said to me You are not the first one to give me the good news . 
I know everyone of you wanted to be the first to tell me . 
I feel very tired today , and wish to lie down a little longer . 
You can go , and I will send for you when I am ready to get up . 
When I went to search for the Young Empress I found all the Court ladies there also . 
They all asked me if I had noticed the rain . 
We came out of the waiting room and found that the courtyard was wet , and after a while it rained very fast . 
Her Majesty got up , and we prayed as usual . 
Fortunately the rain did not stop , but came pouring down all that day . 
Her Majesty played solitaire with the dominoes , and I stood at the back of her chair watching her . 
I saw that the Young Empress and all the girls were standing on the veranda . 
Her Majesty saw them , too , and said to me Go and tell them to wait in the waiting room . 
As I said before , this building was very old , and there were no drains at all . 
While I was talking on the veranda just for a few minutes , I got quite wet . 
Her Majesty knocked at her glass window and told us to go in . 
Her Majesty was very happy that day . 
She laughed and said that we looked as if we had just been pulled out of the lake . 
The Young Empress had on a pale blue gown , and the red tassel on her headdress was dripping red water all over her gown . 
She smiled and said to us Look at those girls their gowns are all spoiled . 
While we were talking , Her Majesty gave us orders for us to change our clothes . 
After they had gone , I went back to Her Majesty . 
She looked at me and said You are wet also , only your clothes do not show . 
I had on a cashmere dress which was made very plain . 
She touched my arm and said How wet you are . 
You had better change , and put on a thick dress . 
I think foreign clothes must be very uncomfortable the waist is too small and it seems to me out of proportion to the rest of the body . 
I am sure that you will look much prettier in our Manchu gown . 
I want you to change and put your Parisian clothes away as souvenirs . 
I only wanted to know how foreign ladies dressed and now I have seen enough . 
The Dragon Boat Festival will be here next month and I will make some pretty gowns for you . 
We were planning to change into Manchu gowns before coming to the Court , but we had received orders that Lao Tsu Tsung wished to see us in foreign clothes . 
I was very glad when I received that order as there were several reasons why I wanted to wear Manchu gowns . 
First , the Court ladies at the beginning treated us as outsiders . 
We had so much work to do , and having to stand most of the time one absolutely needed loose garments . 
I tried on her gown , but it was too loose for me . 
The length was quite all right and so were the sleeves . 
Her Majesty told one of the eunuch writers to write down my measurements in order to have a gown made for me , and said she was sure it would fit me . 
She did the same thing for my mother and sister , and ordered our gowns to be made at once . 
I knew she was pleased , as she told me what color would suit me the best . 
She said that I should always wear pink and pale blue , for they suited , and were her favorite colors , too . 
She also talked about our headdress , and ordered some made the same as worn by the other Court ladies . 
She took her special book for lucky days and hours , and studied it a little while , then she said the eighteenth of that month was the best . 
Li Lien Ying , the head eunuch knew how to please Her Majesty , and said he would give orders to have everything ready for us at that time . 
A short while after she dismissed us for the day . 
It rained for three days without stopping . 
The last day the Emperor came back , and all ceremonies ceased . 
Her Majesty never liked to stay in the Forbidden City , and I was not a bit surprised , as I hated the place . 
We had to use candles to dress by , in the morning , as the rooms were in absolute darkness even in the middle of the afternoon . 
We returned to the Summer Palace on the seventh . 
It was a dull day , but no rain . 
We packed everything in just the same way we had done when we came , and stopped at Wan Shou Si and had our luncheon . 
That day we commenced to eat meat again . 
I noticed that Her Majesty enjoyed her meal very much . 
She asked me if I liked the food without meat , and I told her that everything was nicely done and that I enjoyed the food very much , although without meat . 
She told me that she could not eat that kind of food and enjoy it , and that if it were not necessary to make sacrifice she would not have abstained . 
The first garden party of the year was given by the Empress Dowager to the ladies of the Diplomatic Corps , in the fourth moon . 
These were to be given as presents to the guests . 
On this occasion Her Majesty selected a most beautiful gown of peacock blue , embroidered all over with phoenix . 
The embroidery was raised and each phoenix had a string of pearls two inches long sewed into its mouth . 
Whenever Her Majesty stirred , these strings of tiny pearls moved forwards and backwards and it made a very pretty effect . 
Of course , she wore her jade phoenix on her hair as usual and shoes and handkerchief embroidered with the same pattern . 
My mother wore a lavender silk gown , trimmed with silver braid , her hat was of the same shade with plumes to match . 
My sister and myself wore pale blue Chinese silk gowns with insertion and medallions of Irish crochet and trimmed with tiny velvet bands . 
We wore blue hats with large pink roses . 
All the Court ladies dressed in their most picturesque gowns and it was a very pretty sight to see the procession walking to the Audience Hall . 
I don't think I would need to squeeze myself so tight , either , but I don't think there is anything in the world prettier than our Manchu gowns . 
First the guests were received in audience by Their Majesties . 
They were accompanied by the Doyen , Baron Czikann , Minister for Austria , and an interpreter from each Legation . 
On entering the Audience Hall all the guests stood in line and the Doyen presented a short address to Their Majesties . 
This was translated to Prince Ching , who , in turn , communicated it to the Emperor . 
The Emperor made a suitable reply in Chinese which was translated by the Doyen's interpreter . 
Then the Doyen mounted the steps of the dais and shook hands with Their Majesties , the rest of the guests being presented in turn . 
I was standing at the right hand of the Empress Dowager and as each guest came forward , called out their names , and the Legation which they represented . 
Her Majesty had a few words for everyone , and when she saw a new face she would ask how long they had been in China whether they liked it , etc . 
All these conversations I interpreted for Her Majesty . 
As the guests finished paying their respects they passed along and remained standing in the Hall until everybody had been presented . 
After they had gone out Their Majesties descended from the dais and mixed with the guests . 
The formal ceremony now being concluded , chairs were brought in and everybody made themselves comfortable . 
officiated as hostess , Mrs. Conger sitting at her right and Madame de Carcer , wife of the Spanish Minister , on her left . 
The food was all Chinese , but knives and forks were provided for the use of the guests . 
During the luncheon the Imperial Princess stood up and spoke a few words of welcome , which I translated into English and French . 
After the luncheon was over we adjourned to the garden where Their Majesties were awaiting us . 
A brass band was playing European airs . 
On arriving at a teahouse which had been erected in the gardens , everybody rested and partook of tea . 
Their Majesties then wished everybody good bye and the guests were then conducted to their chairs and took their departure . 
As usual , we reported to Her Majesty everything that had taken place and how the guests had enjoyed themselves . 
She said How is it that these foreign ladies have such large feet ? Their shoes are like boats and the funny way they walk I cannot say I admire . 
I haven't yet seen one foreigner with pretty hands . 
Although they have white skins , their faces are covered with white hair . 
Do you think they are beautiful ? I replied that I had seen some American beauties when I was abroad . 
Her Majesty said No matter how beautiful they are they have ugly eyes . 
I can't bear that blue color , they remind me of a cat . 
After a few more remarks , she ordered us to retire , saying that we must be tired . 
We were rather used up and glad of an opportunity to rest , so made our courtesies and retired . 
We had been at the Palace more than two months , and I had had no opportunity to see my father at all , who was quite ill at that time . 
We did not know whether we could ask leave of absence from the Court . 
I received letters from my father every day , telling me to have courage , and to do my duty . 
My mother asked the Young Empress if it would be correct to ask Her Majesty for permission to go home for a day or two . 
The eighth day of the fourth moon every year is the ceremony of eating green peas . 
On this occasion Her Majesty sent to the people she liked , each a plate containing eight peas , and we had to eat them . 
The Young Empress told me that if I presented a plate of peas to Her Majesty it would please her , which I did . 
This meant May we meet in the hereafter . 
Her Majesty was very happy that day . 
We went to the west side of the lake and had our luncheon there . 
Her Majesty talked to us about the first day we came to the Court , and then said to mother I wonder if Yu Keng is any better . 
When will he be able to come to the Court ? I haven't seen him since he returned from France . 
My mother answered and said that he was feeling better , but that his legs were still very weak , and he could not walk much . 
Her Majesty then said to us Oh , I have forgotten to tell you that if you wish to go home , you can ask permission . 
I have been so busy lately , and forgot to remind you . 
We thanked her and told her that we would like to go home and see how my father was , so she gave orders that we should leave the Court the next day . 
I was so surprised when she mentioned it to us , and wondered if anyone had told her of our intentions , or if Her Majesty was a mind reader . 
When she retired that afternoon I went to see the Young Empress , who was always very nice and kind , and asked me to sit near her . 
Her eunuch brought me a cup of tea . 
Her rooms were furnished exactly the same as Her Majesty's , but everything looked extremely dainty , and showed very good taste . 
We talked about the life at the Palace for a long time , and she told me that she was very fond of us , and so was Her Majesty . 
I told her that Her Majesty had mentioned to us about going home for two or three days and that I was surprised to see how thoughtful she was . 
She said that someone had reminded Her Majesty to let us go home , for we had been at the Court for more than two months . 
I found out afterwards that it was the head eunuch Li who had heard that we were anxious to go . 
You must not talk about it to anyone , and don't show that you are excited to go home . 
Don't dress as if you are going out to morrow , but be natural and do your work as if you don't care about going at all . 
Don't you remind her , in case she forgets to tell you to go , and come back on the second day , which is the custom . 
It will show that you are anxious to see Her Majesty , so you come back one day earlier than the appointed time . 
I was so happy to get this information and asked her if it would be all right to bring Her Majesty some presents when we returned to the Court . 
She said that was just the proper thing to do . 
The next day we did the same work , and went to the Audience Hall with Her Majesty , as usual . 
After the audience was over Her Majesty ordered her luncheon to be served at the country teahouse . 
This teahouse was built in country style , and right on top of her peony mountain , with bamboo and straw , and all the furniture was made of bamboo also . 
, and butterflies , with pink silk curtain hangings . 
At the rear of this exquisite little building was a bamboo shade , with railings all around , hung with red silk lanterns . 
The seats were built against the railings , so that one could sit on them comfortably . 
This was supposed to be used by the Court ladies as their waiting room . 
We played dice with Her Majesty when luncheon was over . 
We played a very long time , and I won the game that day . 
Her Majesty laughed and said to me You have luck to day . 
I think you are so happy to go home that your fairies have helped you to win the game . 
As I mentioned before , this game was called Eight Fairies Going across the Sea . 
I think it is time for you to go now . 
While saying this she turned and asked one of the eunuchs what the time was , and he answered that it was half past two . 
We kowtowed to Her Majesty , and stood waiting for more orders . 
Then she said I am sorry to see you go although I know you are coming back within two or three days . 
I know I shall miss you . 
To my mother she said Tell Yu Keng to take care of his health and get well soon . 
I have ordered four eunuchs to accompany you , and am sending some of my own rice for him . 
We had to kowtow again in thanking Her Majesty for her kindness and finally she said Nemen tzowba . 
We withdrew , and found the Young Empress on the veranda . 
We courtesied to her , and said good bye to the Court ladies and came to our rooms to get ready to start . 
Our eunuchs were very good , and had everything packed up ready for us . 
We gave ten taels to each of our eunuchs , for that was the custom , and gave four taels to each chair bearer of the Palace . 
When we arrived at the Palace Gate our own chairs were waiting for us . 
We said good bye to our eunuchs . 
Strange to say they seemed attached to us and told us to come back soon . 
The four eunuchs ordered by Her Majesty to see us home were there , and as soon as we got into our chairs I saw them riding on horseback beside us . 
We got home after a two hours' ride , and found him looking much better , and one can imagine how happy he was to see us . 
The four eunuchs came into our parlor , and placed the yellow bag of rice on the table . 
My father thanked Her Majesty by kowtowing to the ground . 
We gave these eunuchs each a little present , and they departed . 
I told my father about my life at the Palace , and how very kind Her Majesty was to me . 
He asked me if I could influence Her Majesty to reform some day , and hoped he would live to see it . 
Somehow or other I had the idea that I could and promised him that I would try my best . 
Her Majesty sent two eunuchs to see us the next morning , and also sent us food and fruits . 
They told us that Her Majesty missed us , and had told them to ask if we missed her . 
We told these eunuchs that we were returning to the Court the next day . 
We stayed at home only two days and a great many people came to see us , and kept us busy all the time . 
My father suggested that we should start from the house at about A. M. , so as to get to the Summer Palace before Her Majesty was up . 
We left our house at A. M. in total darkness , just like we had two months before . 
I thought I was the happiest girl in the world . 
I was told by many people , especially by the Young Empress , that Her Majesty was extremely fond of me . 
I had also heard that she did not care for young people at all . 
They smiled to each other whenever Her Majesty was saying to my mother that she liked me , and that I was always careful in doing anything that pleased her . 
I knew I was going to see those people again . 
However , I made up my mind to fight my battles alone . 
I only wished to be useful to Her Majesty , and would not take any notice of them . 
It was a little after five o'clock when we reached the Summer Palace . 
We went to see the Young Empress first , and found she was ready to go to Her Majesty's Palace . 
She was also very glad to see us , and told us that our Manchu costumes were all ready , and that she had seen them and they were perfectly lovely . 
We were very hungry , and enjoyed our breakfast immensely . 
After that we went to see Her Majesty . 
She was awake , so we went into her bedroom . 
We greeted her the same way that we did every morning , and kowtowed to her and thanked her for all the things she had sent us while we were at home . 
I am glad to see you . 
How is Yu Keng ? My mother told her that my father was much better . 
She asked us what we did for those two days , staying at home . 
She also wanted to know whether we still remembered which day she had chosen for us to change into our Manchu costume . 
We told her we knew the date , and were looking forward to it . 
We kowtowed to her , and told her we were very much pleased with everything she had given us . 
Her Majesty told the eunuchs to bring everything out for us to see . 
, one sky blue , the other mauve , with very little trimming . 
I also have a lot of underwear for you . 
I was excited and told Her Majesty that I would like to commence to dress up at once . 
She smiled , and said You must wait until the day comes , the lucky day I have selected for you . 
You must try to fix your hair first , which is the most difficult thing to do . 
Ask the Young Empress to teach you . 
Although she told me to wait , I knew she was pleased to see that I showed so much enthusiasm . 
She asked me the first day when we came to the Court why my hair was so curly . 
I showed her that I curled it with paper , and she teased me ever afterwards . 
She also said that I could not pull my hair straight in time to wear Manchu clothes , that everyone would laugh at me , and how ugly I would look . 
You have lived so many years abroad we consider you are a foreigner to us . 
I told her that as long as Her Majesty considered I was one of her own , I would be satisfied and that she need not worry herself about me . 
I knew they were jealous of us , so I went in search of the Young Empress and left this girl alone . 
We were talking with the Young Empress in the waiting room , and this girl came in and sat near me , smiling to herself most of the time . 
One of the servant girls was fixing some fresh flowers for Her Majesty . 
She looked at her and asked her why she was smiling . 
The Young Empress saw , and asked her the same question . 
She would not answer , but kept on smiling all the time . 
At this moment a eunuch came and said that Her Majesty wanted me . 
I afterwards tried to find out what she had told the Young Empress but could not . 
Several days passed very quietly . 
That night , after Her Majesty had retired , I went to my own room and fixed my headdress on and went to see the Young Empress . 
She said that I looked very nice , and that she was sure Her Majesty would like me better in Manchu costume . 
I told her that I used to wear Manchu dress when I was a little girl , before we went to Europe , and of course I knew how to put it on . 
I also told her that I could not understand why these girls looked upon me as a foreigner . 
She said that they only showed their ignorance , and that they were jealous of me and I should not pay any attention to them at all . 
CHAPTER ELEVEN OUR COSTUMES THE next day we got up earlier than usual and dressed ourselves in our new gowns . 
I could not believe my own eyes , and asked several times whether that was myself or not . 
I found that I looked all right , although I hadn't been wearing this sort of costume for so long . 
They seemed to think that we would look awkward . 
Our own eunuchs were delighted to see us dressed that way . 
The Young Empress came in while passing our rooms on her way to the Empress Dowager's Palace , and waited for us to go with her . 
When we arrived at the waiting room a lot of people came in and looked at us , and talked so much about us , that it made me feel rather shy . 
Everyone told us that we looked much better that way than in foreign clothes , except the Emperor Kwang Hsu . 
He said to me I think your Parisian gowns are far prettier than this . 
I smiled and said nothing . 
He shook his head at me , and went into Her Majesty's bedroom . 
Li Lien Ying came and saw us , and was very much excited and told me to go and see Her Majesty at once . 
I told him that everyone was looking at us , as if we were curios . 
He said You don't know how nice you look now , and I wish that you would not wear foreign clothes at all . 
Her Majesty laughed so loud when she saw us that it made me uncomfortable , for I was afraid we looked unnatural to her . 
She said I cannot believe you are the same girls . 
Just look at yourselves in this looking glass . 
She pointed to a large mirror in her room . 
See how you have changed . 
I feel that you belong to me now . 
I must have some more gowns made for you . 
Then Li Lien Ying said that the twenty fourth would be the first day of the Summer . 
On that day everyone would begin to wear jade hairpins instead of gold , and we had none . 
Her Majesty said to Li I am very glad you told me that . 
I must give them each a jade hairpin after having asked them to change into Manchu dress . 
Li went away and came back with a box of hairpins of pure green jade . 
Her Majesty took a beautiful one and handed it to my mother and told her that that pin had been worn by three Empresses . 
She took two very nice ones , and gave one to me and one to my sister . 
used to wear one , and that the other was worn by herself when she was young . 
I felt ashamed that Her Majesty had given us so many presents and I had done nothing for her in any way . 
However , we thanked her most sincerely , and showed our appreciation . 
She said I look upon you as my own people , and the gowns I have made for you are the very best . 
I have also decided to let you wear the full Court dress , the same as one of the Princesses . 
You are my Court lady , so you are equally ranked here . 
Li stood there behind her and made a sign to us to kowtow to her . 
I cannot remember how many times I kowtowed that day . 
The headdress was very heavy , and I was not quite used to it I was afraid it might fall off . 
Her Majesty also said that she would make our rank known to the Court on her seventieth birthday . 
She could promote anyone at any time , but on these occasions it was something special . 
The Young Empress congratulated us , and said that Her Majesty was looking for a young Prince to marry me . 
She was also very fond of teasing . 
I wrote to my father about all the favors that had been given to me . 
He wrote me he hoped that I deserved them all , and that I must do all I could to be useful and loyal to Her Majesty as long as she lived . 
Life was perfectly lovely at the Palace . 
Her Majesty was always nice and kind . 
we had become Manchus once more . 
One day Her Majesty asked me while we were sailing on the lake in the moonlight , if I wanted to go to Europe any more . 
It was a superb night , and several boats were sailing behind us . 
, with Her Majesty singing very softly to herself . 
I told her I was satisfied to be with her , and did not wish to go anywhere at all . 
She said that I must learn to sing poetry and that she would teach me every day . 
I told her that my father had made me study all kinds of poetry and I had composed some myself . 
She looked surprised and said Why didn't you tell me that before ? I love poems . 
You must read to me sometimes . 
I have many books here containing poems of different dynasties . 
I told her that my knowledge of Chinese literature was very limited , and I dared not let her see how little I knew . 
I had only studied eight years . 
Her Majesty told me that the Young Empress and herself were the only ones who were familiar with Chinese literature at the Court . 
She told me that she tried to teach the Court ladies to read and write some time ago , but having found them so lazy she gave them up . 
My father told me to be very careful not to show them what I could do until I was asked , so I kept it to myself . 
After they found this out , some of the Court ladies were very disagreeable to me , and this went on day after day . 
Except for this unpleasantness the fourth moon passed very agreeably . 
All the Viceroys , Governors and high officials , besides the Imperial Family , Court ladies and eunuchs , all offer Her Majesty beautiful presents . 
I never saw such a lot of things as came into the Palace during this festival . 
The eunuchs took big yellow trays to bring them in . 
During these five days everyone was busy , especially the eunuchs . 
I could not count just how many people sent presents to Her Majesty . 
The presents were of every kind , such as things for the household silks and jewelry of all kinds and description . 
A large part of the presents were foreign goods of the ordinary kind . 
I also saw lovely carved thrones and embroideries . 
Her Majesty ordered them to be put away , and the foreign things to be kept in her Palace , for those were new to her . 
The third day of the fifth moon was the day for just the people of the Palace to make presents . 
It was a most beautiful sight to see . 
We were busy all night making preparations , and had to go and help the Young Empress . 
The next morning we placed our presents in the big courtyard in these big yellow trays . 
The Young Empress had her trays in the first row . 
The presents from the Young Empress to the Empress Dowager were made by her own hands . 
There were ten pairs of shoes , silk embroidered handkerchiefs , little bags for betel nuts , and bags for tobacco , all exquisitely done . 
The Secondary wife of the Emperor Kwang Hsu presented about the same to Her Majesty . 
The Court ladies' presents were all different , as we could ask permission to go out shopping before the Feast . 
We could not go out together , for one or two of us must be there at all times , and it was very exciting to tell each other what we had bought . 
We ourselves did not ask permission to go out of the Palace , for we had our presents ready long before . 
Everyone seemed to be talking about presents , whether Her Majesty would like them or not . 
My mother , my sister and myself had written to Paris to get some lovely French brocades , one set of furniture , French Empire style . 
We had learned Her Majesty's taste already during our short stay there , so including those presents we also gave her fans , perfumes , soaps and some other French novelties . 
Her Majesty always looked over everything , and noticed some of the presents were of very poor quality , and wanted to know the sender's name . 
The eunuchs and servant girls also made her good and useful presents . 
Her Majesty would select the articles she liked the best , and order the rest to be put away , and she might never see them again . 
I must say that Her Majesty liked and admired some foreign things very much , she especially loved the French fancy brocades , for she was making new gowns almost every day . 
She was also pleased with soaps and powder that would beautify the skin . 
She always thanked us in a very nice way and said how very thoughtful we were in selecting beautiful articles for her . 
Her Majesty would also say something nice to the eunuchs and girls , and that made everyone feel pleased . 
The fourth day of the fifth moon was the day that Her Majesty gave presents to us all , the different Princes , high officials , servant girls and eunuchs . 
Her memory was something extraordinary , for she could remember every one of the presents that had been given to her the day before , and the names of the givers also . 
That was a busy day for us . 
Her Majesty gave people presents according to the way they gave her . 
We had yellow sheets of paper and wrote out the names of those to whom she wished to give . 
That day Her Majesty was very angry with one of the wives of a certain Prince because her presents were the poorest . 
Her Majesty told me to keep that tray in her room and said she would go over them and see what they were . 
I knew she was not pleased , for she had a telltale face . 
She told us to measure the silks and ribbons in that tray , and leave it in the hall . 
The ribbons were all of different lengths , all too short to trim a gown , and the dress materials were not of good quality . 
Her Majesty said to me Now you look for yourself . 
They know they are obliged to send me something . 
I am surprised to see how careless they are . 
Probably they thought as I receive so many presents I would not notice . 
They are mistaken , for I notice the poorest the first , in fact I can remember everything . 
I can see those who gave me things in order to please me , and those who gave because they were obliged to . 
I will return them the same way . 
She gave the Court ladies each a beautiful embroidered gown and a few hundred taels , the same to the Young Empress and the Secondary wife . 
She said that we had not so many gowns , and instead of giving us the money , she had things made for us . 
Her Majesty said to my mother Yu Tai Tai . 
I can see you love one daughter better than the other . 
Roonling has such pretty earrings and poor Derling has none . 
Before my mother could answer her she had turned to me while I was standing at the back of her chair I will have a nice pair made for you . 
My mother told her that I did not like to wear heavy earrings . 
Her Majesty laughed and said Never mind , she is mine now , and I will give her everything she needs . 
You have nothing to do with her . 
The earrings she gave me were very heavy . 
Her Majesty said that if I would wear them every day I would get used to them , and so it proved that after some time I thought nothing of it . 
It is also called the Dragon Boat Feast . 
Some medical men search for them at that hour and place them in jars , and when they are dried , sometime use them as medicine . 
Her Majesty told me this , so that day I went all over everywhere and dug into the ground , but found nothing . 
She took a small brush and dipped it into the cup and made a few spots of this yellow paint under our nostrils and ears . 
This was to prevent any insects from crawling on us during the coming summer . 
The reason why it was also called the Dragon Boat Festival was because at the time of the Chou Dynasty the country was divided into several parts . 
Each place had a ruler . 
He could not influence the Emperor , so he made up his mind to commit suicide and jumped into the river , taking a large piece of stone with him . 
On that day the people have celebrated this feast ever since . 
At the Palace the theatre played first this history , which was very interesting , and also played the insects trying to hide themselves before the most poisonous hour arrived . 
On that day we all wore tiger shoes , the front part of which was made of a tiger's head , with little tigers made of yellow silk to wear on the headdress . 
These tigers were only for the children to wear , and signified that they would be as strong as a tiger , but Her Majesty wanted us to wear them also . 
The wives of the Manchu officials came to the Court , and when they saw us they laughed at us . 
We told them it was by Her Majesty's orders . 
, so I ordered eight boxes of different kinds . 
Early in the morning I put on full Court dress , and made myself look as nice as possible and went to wish Her Majesty good morning . 
When she had finished dressing , the eunuchs brought in the presents and , kneeling , I presented them to Her Majesty , bowing to the ground nine times . 
She thanked me and wished me a happy birthday . 
She then made me a present of a pair of sandalwood bracelets , beautifully carved , also a few rolls of brocade silk . 
She also informed me that she had ordered some macaroni in honor of my birthday . 
I again bowed and thanked her for her kindness and thoughtfulness . 
Altogether I had a very happy birthday . 
I can never forget the fifteenth day of the fifth moon as long as I live , for that was a bad day for everyone . 
As usual we went to Her Majesty's bedroom quite early that morning . 
She could not get up and complained that her back ached so much . 
We rubbed her back , in turns , and finally she got up , though a little late . 
The Emperor came in and knelt down to wish her good morning , but she scarcely took any notice of him . 
I noticed that when the Emperor saw that Her Majesty was not well , he said very little to her . 
The eunuch who dressed her hair every morning was ill , and had ordered another one to help her . 
Her Majesty told us to watch him very closely to see that he did not pull her hair off . 
She could not bear to see even one or two hairs fall out . 
This eunuch was not used to trickery , for instance , in case the hair was falling off , he could not hide it like the other one did . 
This poor man did not know what to do with any that came out . 
He was frightened , and Her Majesty , seeing him through the mirror , asked him whether he had pulled her hair out . 
He said that he had . 
This made her furious , and she told him to replace it . 
I almost laughed , but the eunuch was very much frightened and started to cry . 
Her Majesty ordered him to leave the room , and said she would punish him later . 
We helped her to fix up her hair . 
I must say it was not an easy job , for she had very long hair and it was difficult to comb . 
She went to the morning audience , as usual , and after that she told the head eunuch what had happened . 
Then Her Majesty said the food was bad , and ordered the cooks to be punished also . 
They told me that whenever Her Majesty was angry everything went wrong , so I was not surprised that so many things happened that day . 
Her Majesty said that we all looked too vain with our hair too low down at the back of the head . 
We had our hair done up the same way every day , and she had previously never said a word about it . 
She looked at us , and said Now I am going to the audience , and don't need you all here . 
Go back to your rooms and fix your hair all over again . 
If I ever see you all like that again I am going to cut your hair off . 
I was never more surprised in my life when I heard her speak so sharply to us . 
I don't know whether I was spoken to or not , but I thought it well to be wise , and I answered I would . 
We were all ready to go and Her Majesty stood there watching us . 
Her Majesty said she was pretending she was all right , and Her Majesty ordered her to go also . 
When we were walking towards our own place , some of them laughed at Chun Shou , which made her angry . 
When Her Majesty was angry with anyone , she would say that we were all doing something on purpose to make her angry . 
I must say that everyone of us was scared , and wondered who would have dared to do that . 
On the contrary , we tried our best to please her in every way . 
But that day she was furious all day and I tried to stay away from her . 
I noticed some of the eunuchs went to her to ask questions concerning important matters , but she would not look at them , but kept on reading her book . 
To tell the truth , I felt miserable that day . 
At the beginning I thought all the eunuchs were faithful servants , but seeing them every day , I got to know them . 
It did not do them any harm to be punished once in a while . 
The Young Empress told me to go in and wait on Her Majesty as usual . 
She said that probably if I would suggest playing dice with her , she might forget her troubles . 
When I entered Her Majesty's sitting room I found her reading a book . 
She looked at me and said Come over here , I would like to tell you something . 
You know these people at the Palace are no good and I don't like them at all . 
I don't want them to poison your ears by telling you how wicked I am . 
You must not fix your hair too low down at the back of your head . 
I was not angry with you this morning . 
I know you are different . 
Don't let them influence you . 
I want you to be on my side , and do as I tell you . 
Her Majesty spoke very kindly to me , and her face changed also not at all the same face she had that morning . 
Of course I promised her that I would be only too happy to do all I could to please her . 
She spoke to me just like a good mother would speak to a dear child . 
I noticed that day they all seemed to be more careful in doing their work . 
I was told that when once Her Majesty got angry , she would never finish . 
On the contrary , she talked to me very nicely , just as if there had been no troubles at all . 
She was not difficult to wait upon , only one had to watch her moods . 
I thought how fascinating she was , and I had already forgotten that she had been angry . 
She seemed to have guessed what I was thinking , and said I can make people hate me worse than poison , and can also make them love me . 
I thought she was right there . 
CHAPTER TWELVE THE EMPRESS AND MRS . 
She told him not to give any answer until the next day , just to give her time to think it over . 
I was sitting behind the large screen , listening , but the other Court ladies made too much noise , so Her Majesty ordered them not to say a word during audience . 
I was very glad myself , because I could listen to some of the interesting conversations between the Empress Dowager and her Ministers . 
After the audience , Her Majesty ordered her lunch to be served on the top of the hill at Pai Yuen Dien . 
She said that she preferred to walk , so we followed her very slowly . 
To get to this place we had to mount two hundred and seventy two steps , besides ten minutes' climbing over rough stones . 
She did not seem to mind the climbing part at all . 
It was the funniest thing to see two little eunuchs on either side , to support her arms , trying to keep pace with her . 
I noticed that she was very much preoccupied , and did not speak to any of us . 
When we arrived at our destination we were very tired and quite exhausted . 
Her Majesty , who was a good walker herself , laughed at us . 
She was always very much pleased when she excelled in games of skill or endurance . 
She said You see I am old , and can walk much faster than you young people . 
You are all no use . 
What is the matter with you ? Her Majesty was very fond of receiving compliments . 
I had been there long enough to know and had learned to say things which would please her . 
She also hated anyone to pay her compliments at the wrong moment , so one had to be very careful even in paying her compliments . 
This spreading cloud pavilion was a beautiful Palace . 
It had an open space in front of the building , just like one of the courtyards , with pink and white oleanders all over the place . 
There was a porcelain table and several porcelain stools . 
Her Majesty sat on her own yellow satin stool and was drinking her tea in silence . 
It was very windy that day , although the sky was blue with warm sunshine . 
Her Majesty sat there just for a few minutes , and then said it was too windy and went into the building . 
I was more than glad to go in , too , and whispered to the Young Empress that I thought the wind might blow off my headdress . 
The eunuchs brought the luncheon and placed everything upon the table . 
The Young Empress made a sign for us to follow her , which we did . 
When we came to the back veranda we sat down on the window seats . 
I will explain about these seats . 
All the windows were built low at the Palace , and on the veranda there was something like a bench built along the window , about a foot wide . 
There were no chairs to be seen excepting Her Majesty's thrones . 
The Young Empress asked me whether I had noticed that Her Majesty had something on her mind . 
I told her that perhaps she was thinking about the private audience which Prince Ching had mentioned that morning . 
By this time Her Majesty had finished eating and was walking up and down the room , watching us eating . 
She came over to my mother and said I am just wondering why Mrs. Conger asks for a private audience . 
Perhaps she has something to say to me . 
I would like to know just what it is so I can prepare an answer . 
My mother said that probably Mrs. Conger had someone visiting her who wished to be presented to Her Majesty . 
No , it can't be that , because they must give the list of names of those who wish to come to the Palace . 
I don't mind the formal audiences , but I don't think that I should have private ones at all . 
I don't like to be questioned , as you all know . 
The foreigners are , of course , very nice and polite , according to their own way , but they cannot compare with us , so far as etiquette is concerned . 
I may be conservative in saying that I admire our custom and will not change it as long as I live . 
You see our people are taught to be polite from their earliest childhood , and just look back at the oldest teachings and compare them with the new . 
People seem to like the latter the best . 
I mean that the new idea is to be Christians , to chop up their Ancestral Tablets and burn them . 
I know many families here who have broken up because of the missionaries , who are always influencing the young people to believe their religion . 
Now I tell you why I feel uneasy about this audience is because we are too polite to refuse anyone who asks any favors in person . 
The foreigners don't seem to understand that . 
I'll tell you what I will do . 
She is always very nice and doesn't ask any silly questions . 
Of course the Japanese are very much like ourselves , not at all forward . 
Last year , before you came to the Court , a missionary lady came with Mrs. Conger , and suggested that I should establish a school for girls at the Palace . 
I did not like to offend her , and said that I would take it into consideration . 
Now , just imagine it for a moment . 
Wouldn't it be foolish to have a school at the Palace besides , where am I going to get so many girls to study ? I have enough to do as it is . 
I don't want all the children of the Imperial family studying at my Palace . 
Her Majesty laughed while she was telling us this , and everyone else laughed , too . 
She said I am sure you will laugh . 
Mrs. Conger is a very nice lady . 
, but I cannot say that I love the missionaries , too . 
Missionaries also take the poor Chinese children and gouge their eyes out , and use them as a kind of medicine . 
I know several cases like that . 
These country people offer their deformed children to the missionaries , as they are too poor to feed and take care of them . 
I told her about their schools , and how they helped the poor people . 
, the church being burnt down by the mob . 
My father was appointed by Viceroy Chang Chih Tung to investigate the matter . 
The year after , , a Catholic church was burnt down at Mar Cheng , on the Yangtse , near Ichang . 
The mob said they saw many blind children at the church , who were made to work after having their eyes gouged out . 
The Prefect was a most wicked man , and was very anti foreign also . 
The blind children begged to go back to the school and said that they were very happy there . 
Her Majesty said That may be all right for them to help the poor and relieve their suffering . 
For instance , like our great Buddha Ju Lai , who fed the hungry birds with his own flesh . 
I would love them if they would leave my people alone . 
Let us believe our own religion . 
Do you know how the Boxer rising began ? Why , the Chinese Christians were to blame . 
The Boxers were treated badly by them , and wanted revenge . 
Of course that is always the trouble with the low class of people . 
They went too far , and at the same time thought to make themselves rich by setting fire to every house in Peking . 
It made no difference whose house . 
They wanted to burn so long as they could get money . 
These Chinese Christians are the worst people in China . 
They rob the poor country people of their land and property , and the missionaries , of course , always protect them , in order to get a share themselves . 
Then these missionaries do the best they can to protect him , whether he is wrong or not , and believe everything he says and make the magistrate set the prisoner free . 
tried to make the Emperor believe that religion . 
No one shall believe as long as I live . 
I must say that I admire the foreigners in some ways . 
For instance , their navies and armies , and engineers , but as regards civilization I should say that China is the first country by all means . 
I know that many people believe that the Government had connections with the Boxers , but that is not true . 
As soon as we found out the trouble we issued several Edicts , and ordered the soldiers to drive them out , but they had gone too far already . 
I made up my mind not to go out of the Palace at all . 
I am an old woman , and did not care whether I died or not , but Prince Tuang and Duke Lan suggested that we should go at once . 
They also suggested that we should go in disguise , which made me very angry , and I refused . 
I wonder who made that story up ? Of course everyone believed it , and such a story would get to the foreigners in Peking without any trouble . 
Now to come back to the question of the Boxer Rising . 
How badly I was treated by my own servants . 
I was very much surprised to find that there were very few standing around listening . 
Only seventeen eunuchs , two old women servants and one servant girl , that was Sho Chu . 
Those people said they would go with me , no matter what happened . 
I had , eunuchs , but they were nearly all gone before I had the chance of counting them . 
Some of the wicked ones were even rude to me , and threw my valuable vases on the stone floor , and smashed them . 
They knew that I could not punish them at that important moment , for we were leaving . 
I cried very much and prayed for our Great Ancestors' Souls to protect us . 
Everyone knelt with me and prayed . 
The Young Empress was the only one of my family who went with me . 
A certain relative of mine , whom I was very fond of , and gave her everything she asked , refused to go with me . 
I knew that the reason she would not go was because she thought the foreign soldiers would catch up the runaway Court , and kill everyone . 
After we had been gone about seven days , I sent one eunuch back , to find out who was still in Peking . 
She asked this eunuch whether there were any foreign soldiers chasing us , and whether I was killed . 
Soon after the Japanese soldiers took her Palace , and drove her out . 
She thought she was going to die anyway , and as I was not yet assassinated , she might catch up with the Court , and go with us . 
I could not understand how she traveled so fast . 
One evening we were staying at a little country house , when she came in with her husband , a nice man . 
She was telling me how much she had missed me , and how very anxious she had been all that time to know whether I was safe or not , and cried . 
I refused to listen to what she was saying and told her plainly that I did not believe a word . 
From that time she was finished for me . 
I am sure you would pity me , old as I am , that I should have had to suffer in that way . 
The Emperor went all the way in a cart , drawn by a mule , also the Empress . 
I went along , and was praying to our Great Ancestors for protection , but the Emperor was very quiet , and never opened his mouth . 
It rained so much and some of the chair carriers ran away . 
Some of the mules died suddenly . 
It was very hot , and the rain was pouring down on our heads . 
I heard these eunuchs quarreling with the Magistrate , who bowed to the ground , begging them to keep quiet , and promised them everything . 
I was of course very angry . 
Traveling under such circumstances one ought to be satisfied that one was provided for . 
It took us more than a month before we reached Shi An . 
I cannot tell you how fatigued I was , and was of course worrying very much , which made me quite ill for almost three months . 
So long as I live I cannot forget it . 
We returned to Peking early in the twenty eighth year of Kwang Hsu and I had another dreadful feeling when I saw my own Palace again . 
Oh ! it was quite changed a great many valuable ornaments broken or stolen . 
All the valuable things at the Sea Palace had been taken away , and someone had broken the fingers of my white jade Buddha , to whom I used to worship every day . 
Several foreigners sat on my throne and had their photos taken . 
It would take a long time to tell you everything I thought I had enough trouble , but this last was the worst . 
When I have time , I will tell you more about it . 
I want you to know the absolute truth . 
Now let us come back to the question of Mrs. Conger's private audience . 
There must be something special , but I hope that she will not ask for anything , for I hate to refuse her . 
I don't think it is right for her to do that besides , I cannot understand their Chinese very well . 
I like to see the ladies of the Diplomatic body sometimes , but not the missionaries . 
I will stop that when the opportunity comes . 
The next morning Prince Ching told Her Majesty that the American Admiral , and Mrs. Evans , and suite wished to be presented to her . 
The American Minister asked two private audiences . 
He said he had made a mistake by telling her that Mrs. Conger had asked an audience for herself , the day before . 
Turning to us she said Be sure and fix everything up pretty , change everything in my bedroom , so as not to show them our daily life . 
, but we knew it was going to be a hard task to turn the Palace upside down . 
It was just the night before the appointed audience . 
then we changed the cushions on the chairs to the same color . 
While we were watching the eunuchs doing the work , several of them came into the room , carrying a large tray full of clocks . 
We also took away the three embroidered door curtains , and changed them for ordinary blue satin ones . 
I must explain that these three curtains were sacred , too . 
They were embroidered to represent five hundred Buddhist deities , on old gold satin , and had been used by Emperor Tou Kwang . 
Her Majesty believed that by hanging these curtains at her door they would guard against evil spirits entering her room . 
The order was that one of us should remember to place them back again when the audience was over . 
We fixed every piece of furniture in her bedroom . 
Her toilet table was the most important thing . 
We changed her bed from pink color into blue . 
All her furniture was made of sandalwood , also carvings on her bed . 
This sandalwood , before it was made into furniture , was placed in different temples , to be sanctified , so of course no foreigner could see it . 
As we could not take this carving from her bed , we covered it up with embroidered hangings . 
The audience for Mrs. Evans and the other ladies would be the day after . 
She said it was important to see that the Audience Hall was fixed up properly . 
She said Place the only carpet we have here in the hall . 
I don't like carpets anyway , but it cannot be helped . 
After we had finished , Her Majesty started to tell us what to wear for the ladies' audience . 
She said to me You need not come to the throne to morrow , there will only be gentlemen . 
I will get one of the Ministers from Wai Wu Pu . 
I don't want you to talk to so many strange men . 
It is not the Manchu custom . 
These people are all strangers . 
They might go back to America and tell everybody what you look like . 
At the same time Her Majesty gave orders for the Imperial Yellow Gown to be brought in next day , for the gentleman's audience . 
She said that she must dress in her official robe for this occasion . 
This robe was made of yellow satin , embroidered with gold dragons . 
She wore a necklace composed of one hundred and eight pearls , which formed part of this official dress . 
She said I don't like to wear this official robe . 
It is not pretty , but I am afraid I will have to . 
She said to all of us You need not dress especially . 
The next morning Her Majesty got up early , and was busier than ever . 
It seemed to me that whenever we had an audience we always had so much trouble . 
Something was sure to go wrong and make Her Majesty angry . 
She said I want to look nice , and be amiable , but these people always make me angry . 
I know the American Admiral will go home and tell his people about me , and I don't want him to have a wrong impression . 
I look too ugly in yellow . 
It makes my face look the same color as my robe , she said . 
I suggested that as it was only a private audience , if she wished to dress differently , it would not matter at all . 
She seemed delighted , and I was afraid lest I had not made a proper suggestion , but anyway I was too busy to worry . 
, covered with precious stones and pearls , on pale green satin . 
She tried it on , and said that it was becoming to her , so she ordered me to go to the jewel room and get flowers to match for her hair . 
and on the other side was a bat . 
Of course her shoes , handkerchiefs and everything else were embroidered in the same way . 
After she was dressed , she smiled and said I look all right now . 
We had better go to the audience hall and wait for them , and at the same time we can play a game of dice . 
Then to us all she said All of you will stay at the back of the screen during the audience . 
You can see all right , but I don't wish that you should be seen . 
Her Majesty smiled and said to me I thought it was just going to be the American Minister and the Admiral , and one or two of his staff . 
Who can the rest of the people be ? However , never mind , I will receive them anyway . 
We helped her to mount her throne upon the dais , fixed her clothes , and handed her the paper containing the speech she was to give . 
Then we went back of the screen , with the Young Empress . 
It was so very quiet , not a sound anywhere , that we could hear the boots of the visitors as they walked over the stones in the courtyard . 
We were peeping from behind the screen , and could see several of the Princes mounting the steps , conducting these people to the Hall . 
The Admiral and the American Minister came in , and stood in a line . 
They bowed three times to the Empress Dowager . 
The Emperor was also on his throne , sitting at her left hand . 
His throne was very small , just like an ordinary chair . 
Her Majesty's speech was simply to welcome the Admiral to China . 
They then came up to the dais and shook hands with their Majesties , ascending on one side , and retiring down the other . 
Prince Ching took them into another Palace building , where they had lunch , and the audience was over . 
It was very simple and formal . 
I told her that it was not myself who laughed . 
She said The next time when I have men in audience you need not come into the Audience Hall at all . 
Of course it is different when I have my own people at the morning audiences . 
Her Majesty did not go to her bedroom that afternoon . 
She said she wanted to wait until these people had gone and hear what they had to say . 
After a couple of hours Prince Ching came in and reported that they had lunched , and that they were very pleased to have seen Her Majesty , and had gone away . 
I must here explain that the Admiral had entered by the left gate of the Palace . 
The middle gate was only used for Their Majesties , with one exception , viz . 
in the case of anyone presenting credentials . 
Then they entered by the center gate . 
The Admiral left by the same gate he had entered . 
, and what they had thought about it . 
Did they say anything , and were they pleased or not . 
She said to Prince Ching You can go now , and make the necessary preparations for the ladies' audience next day . 
That same evening Her Majesty said to us You must all dress alike to morrow , and wear your prettiest clothes . 
These foreign ladies who are coming to the Palace may never see us again , and if we don't show them what we have now , we will not have another opportunity . 
She ordered us all , including the Young Empress , to wear pale blue , also the Secondary wife of the Emperor . 
I have to be very careful . 
These people at the Palace here are not used to seeing so many people and they might not have nice manners , and the foreigners will laugh at them . 
Addressing me , she said You can prepare some pieces of jade , in case I need them . 
Put them in a nice box and have them all ready . 
Don't bring them to me until I ask for them . 
She said We have talked enough now , and you can all go to rest . 
I was only too glad to go to my own room . 
The next morning everything went on very nicely and there was no trouble at all . 
Her Majesty was well satisfied , for we had all taken great care in fixing ourselves up . 
She said to me You never put enough paint on your face . 
People might take you for a widow . 
You will have to paint your lips , as that is the custom . 
I don't need you yet , so go back and put some more paint on . 
So I went back to my room and painted myself just like the rest of them , but I could not help laughing at seeing myself so changed . 
By the time I got to her room again , she said Now you look all right . 
If you think that powder is expensive , I will buy some for you . 
She said that with a laugh , for she always liked to tease me . 
By the time Her Majesty had finished her toilet , one of the ladies brought a number of gowns for her to select one from . 
She said she would wear pale blue that day . 
She looked over twenty or thirty gowns , but found nothing which suited her , so she gave orders for some more to be brought in . 
Finally she chose a blue gown embroidered with one hundred butterflies , and wore a purple sleeveless jacket , which was also embroidered with butterflies . 
At the bottom of this gown were pearl tassels . 
She wore her largest pearls , one of which was almost as large as an egg , and was her favorite jewel . 
She only wore this on special occasions . 
She wore two jade butterflies on each side of her headdress . 
Her bracelets and rings were also all designed in butterflies , in fact everything matched . 
Among her beautiful jewels , she always wore some kind of fresh flowers . 
White jessamine was her favorite flower . 
The Young Empress and the Court ladies were not allowed to wear fresh flowers at all unless given to them by Her Majesty as a special favor . 
We could wear pearls and jade , etc . 
, but she said that the fresh flowers were for her , her idea being that we were too young , and might spoil fresh flowers if we wore them . 
After she was dressed we went into the Audience Hall . 
She ordered her cards to be brought in as she wanted to play solitaire . 
She talked all the time she was playing , and said that we must all be very nice and polite to the American ladies , and show them everywhere . 
She said It doesn't matter now , for we have everything changed . 
She said I want to laugh myself . 
What is the use of changing everything ? They will imagine we are always like this . 
You must tell it some day , otherwise no one will know it at all , and the trouble would not be worth the while . 
A eunuch came in , the same as the day before , and announced that the ladies had arrived at the Palace Gate , nine in all . 
Her Majesty sent some of the Court ladies to meet them in the courtyard , and bring them to the Audience Hall , which they did . 
I was standing at the right side of Her Majesty's chair , and could see them mounting the steps . 
As they got nearer , Her Majesty said Again that missionary lady with Mrs. Conger . 
I think she must like to see me . 
I will tell her I am very glad to see her always , and see if she understands what I mean . 
Mrs. Conger shook hands with Her Majesty and presented Mrs. Evans and also the wives of the American officers . 
I was watching Her Majesty and saw that she was very nice and amiable , with such a pleasant smile so different from her everyday manner . 
She told them she was delighted to see them . 
Her Majesty ordered the eunuchs to have chairs brought in for the ladies , and at the same time other eunuchs brought in tea . 
Her Majesty asked Mrs. Evans whether she liked China what she thought of Peking how long she had been there how long she was going to stay , and where she was staying . 
I was so accustomed to Her Majesty's questions that I knew exactly what she would ask . 
Mrs. Conger told her interpreter to tell Her Majesty that she had not seen her for such a long time , and enquired about Her Majesty's health . 
Her Majesty said to me You tell Mrs. Conger that I am in good health and that I am delighted to see her . 
It is a pity that I cannot hold an audience more frequently , otherwise I could see more of her . 
will accompany them to lunch . 
This room was specially furnished as a banqueting room where refreshments could be served . 
All the Court ladies went to the lunch , except Her Majesty , the Young Empress and the Secondary wife . 
It had taken me two hours to fix the table for the luncheon . 
Her Majesty ordered that a white foreign tablecloth should be used , as it looked cleaner . 
The eunuch gardeners had decorated the table with fresh flowers , and Her Majesty gave instructions as to how the seats were to be placed . 
She said Mrs. Evans is the guest of honor . 
Although Mrs. Conger is the wife of the American Minister , she is more of a resident , so Mrs. Evans must have the principal seat . 
She also told me to arrange to seat everybody according to their respective ranks . 
were hostesses , and were to sit opposite each other . 
We placed golden menu holders and little gold plates for almonds and watermelon seeds the rest all silver ware , including chopsticks . 
Her Majesty ordered that foreign knives and forks should be provided also . 
The food was served in Manchu style , and was composed of twenty four courses , besides sweetmeats candies and fruits . 
Her Majesty instructed us that only the best champagne was to be served . 
She said I know that foreign ladies love to drink . 
So when we had finished we entered her own Palace and found her waiting there for us . 
She got up and told me to ask Mrs. Evans whether she had had anything to eat that the food was not very good . 
She invited Mrs. Evans and Mrs. Conger to sit down , and the eunuchs brought in tea , as usual . 
Her Majesty asked Mrs. Evans to stay a little while in Peking , and to visit the different temples . 
She said Our country , although very old , has not such fine buildings as there are in America . 
I suppose you will find everything very strange . 
I am rather too old now , otherwise I would like to travel around the world . 
I have read much about different countries , but of course there is nothing like visiting the different places and seeing them yourself . 
However , one cannot tell . 
I may be able to go after all , by and bye , but I am afraid to leave my own country . 
By the time I returned I should not know the place any more , I'm afraid . 
Here everything seems to depend on me . 
Our Emperor is quite young . 
She then turned and ordered us to take these ladies to visit the different buildings of the Palace , also the famous temple of the King of Dragons . 
This is on a little island in the center of the lake of the Summer Palace . 
Mrs. Conger said that she had something to ask Her Majesty , and told the Missionary lady to proceed . 
While Mrs. Conger was speaking to this lady Her Majesty became rather impatient as she wanted to know what they were talking about , so she asked me . 
It was very hard for me to listen to both of the ladies and to Her Majesty at the same time . 
The only words I heard were The portrait , so I guessed the rest . 
Louis Exhibition , in order that the American people may form some idea of what a beautiful lady the Empress Dowager of China is . 
Miss Carl is the sister of Mr. F. Carl who was for so many years Commissioner of Customs in Chefoo . 
Her Majesty looked surprised , for she had been listening very carefully whilst this lady was talking . 
She did not like to say that she did not quite understand , so she turned to me , as had been previously arranged , a sign for me to interpret . 
I did not , however , do so immediately , so Mrs. Conger told her missionary friend to repeat the request in case Her Majesty had not quite understood it . 
Her Majesty then said to me I cannot quite understand what this lady says . 
I think perhaps you can tell me better . 
I must here explain that in China a portrait is only painted after death , in memorium of the deceased , in order that the following generations may worship the deceased . 
I noticed that Her Majesty was somewhat shocked when the request was made known to her . 
I did not want Her Majesty to appear ignorant before these foreign ladies , so I pulled her sleeve and told her that I would explain everything to her later . 
She replied Explain a little to me now . 
This was spoken in the Court language , which the visitors were unable to understand , it being somewhat different from the ordinary Chinese language . 
This enabled Her Majesty to form some idea of the conversation , so she thanked Mrs. Conger for her kind thought , and promised to give her answer later . 
Tell her that I have to be very careful not to do anything which would give my people an opportunity to criticize my actions . 
I have to adhere to the rules and customs of my ancestors . 
I noticed that Her Majesty did not seem inclined to discuss the subject further at the moment . 
The ladies then proceeded to the island in the Empress Dowager's pleasure boat known as the Imperial barge , previously described , and visited the temple . 
The Empress Dowager believed the popular superstition that this hole was the home of the King of Dragons from which the temple derives its name . 
I then went to report to Her Majesty in the usual way what had been said by the visitors whether they had expressed themselves as being pleased with the reception they had received . 
Her Majesty said I like Mrs. Evans . 
I think she is a very good woman . 
It seems to me that her manners are quite different from those of the other American ladies whom I have met . 
I like to meet people who are polite . 
Then , referring to the subject of the portrait Her Majesty said I wonder why Mrs. Conger has this idea . 
Now please explain to me what painting a portrait really is . 
When I explained that it would be necessary for her to sit for several hours each day she was excited , and afraid she would never have the patience to see it through . 
I told her that I had had my own portrait painted during my stay in Paris , by the same artist Mrs. Conger had proposed should paint her own portrait . 
Her Majesty said I do not understand why I must sit for the portrait Couldn't someone else do it for me . 
I explained to her that as it was her own portrait , and not that of somebody else , they wished to paint , it would be necessary for her to sit herself . 
She then enquired whether it would be necessary for her to wear the same dress at each sitting , also the same jewels and ornaments . 
I replied that it would be necessary to do so on each occasion . 
She said I wonder what kind of a person this lady artist is . 
Does she speak Chinese ? I said that I knew Miss Carl very well , and that she was a very nice lady , but that she didn't speak Chinese . 
Her Majesty said I am glad she doesn't understand Chinese . 
The only objection about this portrait painting is that I have to have a foreigner at the Palace all the time . 
With my own people gossiping they might tell her things which I don't want anyone to know . 
I told her that would be impossible as Miss Carl did not understand Chinese at all , neither did any of the people at Court understand English , with the exception of ourselves . 
Her Majesty answered You must not rely too much on that , as after spending a short time at the Court they will soon learn to understand each other . 
Her Majesty said I don't see how I can very well refuse Mrs. Conger's request . 
Of course I told her , as you know , that I would have to consult with my Ministers , just to give me time to think the matter over . 
First of all we must talk over what we are going to do , for to have a foreign lady staying in the Palace is out of the question altogether . 
Now , where can we put her ? Someone will have to watch her all the time . 
This is such a difficult matter that I hardly know what to decide upon . 
Finally she smiled and said I have it . 
We can treat her as a prisoner without her knowing it , but it will all depend on your mother , your sister and yourself to act for me in this matter . 
Each of you will have to play your part very carefully , and I mine also . 
fixed up for Miss Carl during her stay here . 
This Palace garden is quite close to Her Majesty's own Palace , about ten minutes' drive . 
It is not in the Palace ground , but is quite a separate Palace outside the Summer Palace . 
Continuing , Her Majesty said Now , you will have to come with her every morning and return to stay with her every night . 
I think this is the safest way out of the difficulty , but be careful with regard to all correspondence which she may either receive or send away . 
There is another thing you will have to be very careful about , and that is to watch that Miss Carl has no chance to talk with the Emperor . 
The reason why I say this is because , as you know , the Emperor is of a shy disposition , and might say something which would offend her . 
I will appoint four extra eunuchs to be in attendance during the sittings for the portrait , so that they will be on hand in case anything is wanted . 
Her Majesty then said I noticed that Mrs. Conger was watching you when you pulled my sleeve . 
I wonder what she thought of it . 
You needn't care , anyway . 
Let her think anything she likes . 
I understood what you meant if Mrs. Conger didn't , and that is all that is necessary . 
It is not the painting of the portrait that I mind , but it might give rise to serious results . 
The next morning I received a letter from Mrs. Conger begging me not to prejudice Her Majesty against Miss Carl in any way . 
I translated this to Her Majesty , and it made her furious . 
She said No one has any right to write to you in such a way . 
If you don't like to say that , just say that as Miss Carl is a personal friend of yours you certainly would never think of saying anything against her . 
I therefore replied to Mrs. Conger's letter in the ordinary way , making it as formal as possible . 
Her Majesty then talked of nothing but the portrait during the whole of that afternoon . 
By and bye she said I hope that Mrs. Conger will not send a missionary lady with Miss Carl to keep her company during her stay at the Palace . 
If she does I will certainly refuse to sit . 
The next morning the eunuch arrived with my portrait , and everyone at the Court had a good look at it before I took it to show to Her Majesty . 
Some of them were of the opinion that it was very much like me , while the others thought the painting a very poor one . 
When I informed Her Majesty of the arrival of the portrait she ordered that it should be brought into her bedroom immediately . 
She scrutinized it very carefully for a while , even touching the painting in her curiosity . 
Finally she burst out laughing and said What a funny painting this is , it looks as though it had been painted with oil . 
Such rough work I never saw in all my life . 
The picture itself is marvellously like you , and I do not hesitate to say that none of our Chinese painters could get the expression which appears on this picture . 
What a funny dress you are wearing in this picture . 
I cannot imagine how you could do it . 
I should have thought you would have been ashamed to expose yourself in that manner . 
Don't wear any more such dresses , please . 
It has quite shocked me . 
What a funny kind of civilization this is to be sure . 
Her Majesty laughed and exclaimed This is getting worse and worse . 
Everything seems to go backwards in foreign countries . 
Here we don't even expose our wrists when in the company of gentlemen , but foreigners seem to have quite different ideas on the subject . 
The Emperor is always talking about reform , but if this is a sample we had much better remain as we are . 
She again examined the portrait and said Why is it that one side of your face is painted white and the other black ? This is not natural your face is not black . 
Half of your neck is painted black , too . 
How is it ? I explained that it was simply the shading and was painted exactly as the artist saw me from the position in which she was sitting . 
She then asked me if I knew when the artist proposed commencing the portrait . 
I told her that the artist was still in Shanghai , but that Mrs. Conger had already written to her to come up to Peking , to make the necessary preparations . 
I translated the letter to Her Majesty , who said I am very glad that you know this lady personally . 
It will make it much easier for me . 
You know there may be some things which I may want to tell Miss Carl , but which I don't want Mrs. Conger to know . 
You understand what I mean . 
Now I must explain that the Chinese year varies as to the number of moons it contains . 
For example , one year contains the ordinary twelve months or moons . 
The following year may contain thirteen moons . 
Then the two years following that may contain twelve moons only , and thirteen moons the next year , and so on . 
At the time of the proposed visit of the artist the Chinese year contained thirteen moons , there being two fifth moons in that year . 
When Prince Ching asked Her Majesty to name the day on which Miss Carl should commence her work , she replied I will give her my answer to morrow . 
I must first consult my book , as I don't want to start this portrait on an unlucky day . 
So the next day , after her usual morning audience Her Majesty consulted this book for quite a time . 
Finally she said to me According to my book the next lucky day will not occur for another ten days or so , and handed me the book to look myself . 
Eventually she picked out the twentieth day of the second fifth moon as the most lucky day for beginning the work . 
Next she had to consult the book again in order to fix on the exact hour , finally fixing on o'clock in the evening . 
Her Majesty replied Well , we have electric lights here . 
Surely that would be sufficient light for her . 
Then I had to explain that it would not be possible to get such good results by means of artificial light as if it were painted during the daytime . 
You see I was anxious to get her to change the hour , as I was sure that Miss Carl would refuse to paint by means of electric light . 
Her Majesty replied What a bother . 
I can paint pictures myself in any kind of light , and she ought to be able to do the same . 
This was the first time she had visited me in my own room , and I was naturally very much embarrassed , as she very rarely visited the rooms of her Court ladies . 
So she sat down in an easy chair . 
A eunuch brought in her tea , which I handed to her myself instead of letting the eunuch wait upon her . 
Happening to glance into one corner of the room she exclaimed What are those pictures on the table over there , and walked across to examine them . 
As soon as she picked them up , she exclaimed in much surprise Why , they are all photographs of yourself , and are very much better than the picture you had painted . 
They are more like you . 
Still I have given my promise , and I suppose I shall have to keep it . 
However , if I do have my photograph taken , it will not interfere at all with the painting of the portrait . 
The only trouble is I cannot ask an ordinary professional photographer to the Palace . 
It would hardly be the thing . 
I would like to explain that I had two brothers at Court at that time , who held appointments under the Empress Dowager . 
One was in charge of all the electrical installation at the Summer Palace , and the other , her private steam launch . 
It was the custom for all the sons of the Manchu officials to hold certain positions at the Court for two or three years . 
They were perfectly free to walk about the grounds of the Palace , and saw Her Majesty daily . 
Her Majesty was always very kind to these young men , and chatted with them in quite a motherly way . 
When Her Majesty heard what my mother said , she was very much surprised , and asked why she had never been told that my brother was learned in photography . 
My mother replied that she had no idea that Her Majesty wished to have a photograph taken , and had not dared to suggest such a thing herself . 
Her Majesty laughed , and said You may suggest anything you like , as I want to try anything that is new to me , especially as outsiders can know nothing about it . 
She gave orders to send for my brother at once . 
On his arrival Her Majesty said to him I hear that you are a photographer . 
I am going to give you something to do . 
My brother was kneeling , as was the custom of the Court , whilst Her Majesty was addressing him . 
Everybody , with the exception of the Court ladies , had to kneel when she was speaking to them . 
Even the Emperor himself was no exception to this rule . 
Her Majesty asked my brother when he would be able to come and take her photograph , and what kind of weather was necessary . 
So Her Majesty decided to have her photograph taken the next morning . 
She said I want to have one taken first of all in my chair , when going to the audience , and you can take some others afterwards . 
She also asked my brother how long she would have to sit , and was surprised to learn that only a few seconds would suffice . 
Next she enquired how long it would be before it was finished , so that she could see it . 
My brother answered that if it were taken in the morning it could be finished late the same afternoon . 
Her Majesty said that was delightful , and expressed a wish to watch him do the work . 
She told my brother that he might select any room in the Palace to work in , and ordered a eunuch to make the necessary preparations . 
The next day was a beautiful day , and at eight o'clock my brother was waiting in the courtyard with several cameras . 
Her Majesty went to the courtyard and examined each of them . 
She said How funny it is that you can take a person's picture with a thing like that . 
She was delighted with the result of her observations , and said that it was marvellous . 
Finally she told me to go and stand there , as she wanted to have a look at me through this glass also . 
She then exchanged places with me , and desired that I should look through the glass and see if I could make out what she was doing . 
She waved her hand in front of the camera , and on my telling her of it , she was pleased . 
She then entered her chair , and ordered the bearers to proceed . 
My brother took another photograph of Her Majesty in the procession as she passed the camera . 
Next time when you are going to take one , let me know so that I may try and look pleasant . 
I knew that Her Majesty was very much pleased . 
While we were at the back of the screen during the audience , I noticed that she seemed anxious to get it over , in order to have some more photographs taken . 
It only took about twenty minutes to get that particular audience over , which was very rare . 
After the people had gone , we came from behind the screen and Her Majesty said Let us go and have some more pictures taken while the weather is fine . 
So she walked the courtyard of the Audience Hall , where my brother had a camera ready , and had another photograph taken . 
She said that she would like to have some taken sitting on her throne , exactly as though she were holding an audience . 
It took us only a few minutes to have everything prepared in the courtyard . 
At the same time I went and brought some of her favorite jewelry . 
She had two photographs taken in these costumes , one in each dress . 
Next she wanted one taken in a plain gown , without any embroidery . 
She then ordered my brother to go and finish the pictures which had already been taken , as she was anxious to see what they were like . 
She said to my brother You wait a minute , I want to go with you and see how you work on them . 
Of course , I had not considered it necessary to explain to Her Majesty the process of developing the pictures , the dark room , etc . 
, so I explained to her as well as I could the whole thing . 
Her Majesty replied It doesn't matter . 
I want to go and see the room , no matter what kind of a room it is . 
So we all adjourned to the dark room in order to see my brother work on the photographs . 
We placed a chair so that Her Majesty could sit down . 
She said to my brother You must forget that I am here , and go along with your work just as usual . 
She watched for a while , and was very pleased when she saw that the plates were developing so quickly . 
My brother held up the plate to the red light , to enable her to see more distinctly . 
Her Majesty said It is not very clear . 
She said Well , one is never too old to learn . 
This is something really new to me . 
I am not sorry that I suggested having my photograph taken , and only hope that I shall like the portrait painting as well . 
She said to my brother Don't finish these photographs until after I have had my afternoon rest . 
I want to see you do it . 
He then showed Her Majesty how the printing was done . 
There was plenty of light , as it was summer time , and as it was only four o'clock in the afternoon , the sun was still high . 
Her Majesty watched for two hours while my brother was printing , and was delighted to see each picture come out quite plainly . 
She held the first one in her hands so long while examining the others , that when she came to look at it again , she found that it had turned quite black . 
She said How very interesting , and what a lot of work there is . 
After the printing process had been finished , my brother placed the pictures in a chemical bath , as usual , finally washing them in clean water . 
This caused Her Majesty even more surprise when she saw how clear the pictures came out , and caused her to exclaim How extraordinary . 
Everything is quite true to life . 
When they were finally completed , she took the whole of them to her own room and sat down on her little throne , and gazed at them for a long time . 
She even took her mirror in order to compare her reflection with the photographs just taken . 
All this time my brother was standing in the courtyard awaiting Her Majesty's further commands . 
Suddenly she recollected this fact , and said Why , I had forgotten all about your brother . 
The poor fellow must be still standing waiting to know what I want next . 
You go and tell him no , I had better go and speak to him myself . 
He has worked so hard all the day , that I want to say something to make him feel happy . 
The following ten days it rained continually , which made Her Majesty very impatient , as it was impossible to take any more photographs until the weather improved . 
My brother tried several times , but failed to get a good picture . 
During this rainy period the Court was moved to the Sea Palace , as the Emperor was to sacrifice at the Temple of Earth . 
This was a yearly ceremony and was carried out on similar lines to all other annual ceremonies . 
On account of the rain Her Majesty ordered that boats should be brought alongside the west shore of the Summer Palace . 
On entering the boats , Her Majesty , accompanied by the Court , proceeded to the Western Gate of the city , and on arrival at the last bridge , disembarked . 
Chairs were awaiting us and we rode to the gate of the Sea Palace . 
There we again entered the boats and proceeded across the lake , a distance of about a mile . 
While crossing the lake Her Majesty noticed a lot of lotus plants which were in full bloom . 
She said We are going to stay at least three days here . 
I hope the weather will be fine , as I should like to have some photographs taken in the open boats on the lake . 
I have also another good idea , and that is , I want to have one taken as Kuan Yin' . 
The two chief eunuchs will be dressed as attendants . 
The necessary gowns were made some time ago , and I occasionally put them on . 
Whenever I have been angry , or worried over anything , by dressing up as the Goddess of Mercy it helps me to calm myself , and so play the part I represent . 
I can assure you that it does help me a great deal , as it makes me remember that I am looked upon as being all merciful . 
By having a photograph taken of myself dressed in this costume , I shall be able to see myself as I ought to be at all times . 
When we arrived at the private Palace the rain ceased . 
We walked to her bedroom , although the ground was still in bad condition . 
One of Her Majesty's peculiarities was a desire to go out in the rain and walk about . 
She would not even use an umbrella unless it was raining very heavily . 
The eunuchs always carried our umbrellas , but if Her Majesty did not use her umbrella , of course we could not very well use ours . 
The same thing applied in everything . 
The only exception to this rule was when Her Majesty , being tired walking , ordered her stool to rest on . 
We were not allowed to sit in her presence , but had to stand all the time . 
Her Majesty liked her Sea Palace better than her Palace in the Forbidden City . 
It was far prettier , and had the effect of making her good tempered . 
However , much to Her Majesty's disappointment , it rained incessantly for the next three days , so it was decided to stay a few days longer . 
On the last day of our stay it cleared up sufficiently to enable the photographs to be taken , after which we all returned to the Summer Palace . 
The day after our arrival at the Summer Palace Her Majesty said that we had better prepare everything for the audience to receive the lady artist . 
She told the chief eunuch to issue orders to all the other eunuchs not to speak to Miss Carl , but simply be polite as occasion required . 
We Court ladies received similar orders . 
Also , that we were not to address Her Majesty while Miss Carl was present . 
The Emperor received similar instructions . 
Her Majesty gave orders to have the Gardens of Prince Chung's Palace ready . 
She then said to us I trust you three to look after this lady artist . 
I have already given orders for food to be supplied by the Wai Wu Pu . 
The only thing that I have been worried about is that I have no foreign food here for Miss Carl . 
She ordered us to have our stove taken over to Prince Chung's Palace in case Miss Carl desired something cooked . 
You are doing all this for me . 
After a while she smiled , and said How selfish of me . 
The country air might benefit him . 
We kowtowed and thanked Her Majesty , as this was a special favor , no official nor anyone else having been allowed to live in Prince Chung's Palace previously . 
We all were very pleased I could now see my father every day . 
Hitherto we had only been able to see him about once a month , and then only by asking special leave . 
The next day Her Majesty sent us to Prince Chung's Palace to make all necessary arrangements for Miss Carl's stay . 
This Palace of Prince Chung's was a magnificent place . 
All the smaller dwellings were quite separate from each other , not in one large building , as was the custom . 
We ourselves were to occupy the next house to Miss Carl , in order that we might always be on hand , and at the same time keep a good eye on her . 
We returned to the Summer Palace the same evening , and told Her Majesty just how everything had been arranged . 
She said I want you all to be very careful not to let this lady know that you are watching her . 
She seemed very anxious about this , repeating these instructions for several days prior to Miss Carl's arrival . 
I felt very much relieved when the day before the audience arrived , and everything was finally fixed to Her Majesty's satisfaction . 
She ordered us to retire early that evening , as she wanted to rest and look well the next morning . 
When morning came we hurried over everything , even the usual morning audience , so that we could be ready when Miss Carl arrived . 
By that time the audience was about finished . 
The chief eunuch came in and told Her Majesty that the foreign ladies had arrived and were waiting in another room . 
Her Majesty said to us I think I will go to the courtyard and meet them there . 
While we were descending the steps we saw the ladies entering the gate of the courtyard . 
I pointed out Miss Carl to Her Majesty , and noticed that she eyed Miss Carl very keenly . 
When we arrived in the courtyard , Mrs. Conger came forward and greeted Her Majesty and then presented Miss Carl . 
Her Majesty watched Miss Carl and myself as we greeted each other , and I could see that she was satisfied . 
She told me afterwards that she had noticed Miss Carl appeared very glad to see me again , and said We will handle her pretty easily , I think . 
Her Majesty then went to her own private Palace , and we all followed . 
On our arrival , Miss Carl told me that she had brought her own canvas . 
This was a piece about six feet by four feet . 
I had told Miss Carl a little previously that Her Majesty refused to sit for a very small portrait and that she would like a life size one . 
When Her Majesty saw the canvas she appeared to be very much disappointed , as in her opinion even that was not large enough . 
We placed the tables ready for Miss Carl , and Her Majesty asked her to choose the position in which she wished to paint . 
However , Miss Carl finally placed the canvas near the door of the room . 
Her Majesty told Mrs. Conger and the rest to sit down for a while as she wanted to change into another gown . 
I followed her into her bedroom . 
I could hardly refrain from laughing outright on hearing this , and told Her Majesty that Miss Carl's hair was naturally of a light color . 
Her Majesty said that she had often seen ladies with golden hair , but never one with white hair , excepting old ladies . 
She said I think that she is very nice , however , and hope she will paint a good portrait . 
She selected one from a number which the Court lady brought , embroidered all over with purple wisteria . 
Her shoes and handkerchiefs matched . 
She also wore a blue silk scarf , embroidered with the character Shou . 
Each character had a pearl in the center . 
She wore a pair of jade bracelets and also jade nail protectors . 
In addition she wore jade butterflies and a tassel on one side of her headdress , and , as usual , fresh flowers on the other side . 
Her Majesty certainly did look beautiful on that occasion . 
By the time she came out from her room Miss Carl had everything prepared . 
She seated herself on her throne , ready to pose for the picture . 
She just sat down in an ordinary easy position , placing one hand on a cushion . 
Miss Carl explained That is an excellent position , as it is so natural . 
I told Her Majesty what Miss Carl said , and she asked me whether she looked all right , or not . 
If not , she would change her position . 
I assured her that she looked very grand in that position . 
However , she asked the opinion of the Young Empress and some of the Court ladies , who all agreed that she could not look better . 
I could see that they never looked at Her Majesty at all , they were too much interested in what Miss Carl was doing . 
When Miss Carl commenced to make the rough sketch of Her Majesty everyone watched with open mouth , as they had never seen anything done so easily and so naturally . 
The Young Empress whispered to me Although I don't know anything about portrait painting , still I can see that she is a good artist . 
She has never seen any of our clothes and headdresses , and she has copied them exactly . 
Just imagine one of our Chinese artists trying to paint a foreign lady , what a mess he would make of it . 
After the sketch was finished Her Majesty was delighted and thought it was wonderful for Miss Carl to have made it so quickly and so accurately . 
I explained that this was a rough sketch and that when Miss Carl commenced painting , she would soon see the difference . 
We then took Miss Carl to luncheon , together with Mrs. Conger , and after luncheon we accompanied Her Majesty to the theatre . 
After Mrs. Conger had departed I took Miss Carl to my room to rest . 
As soon as we arrived there , Her Majesty sent a eunuch to call me to her bedroom . 
Her Majesty said I don't want this lady to paint during my afternoon rest . 
She can rest at the same time . 
As soon as I am up you can bring her here to paint . 
I am glad that it looks like turning out better than I had anticipated . 
I therefore told Miss Carl Her Majesty's wishes in this respect and that she could paint for a little while , if she chose to , after Her Majesty had had her rest . 
Miss Carl was so interested in Her Majesty , she told me she didn't want to rest at all , but that she would like to go on with the painting right away . 
Of course , I did not like to tell her anything the first day , as it might upset her , and did not say that this was a command from Her Majesty . 
After a lot of maneuvering I got her to give up the idea of continuing straight off , without offending her . 
I took her out on the veranda as the eunuch was preparing the table for Her Majesty's dinner in the room we were then occupying . 
The Young Empress kept Miss Carl busy talking , I acting as interpreter . 
Soon one of the eunuchs came and informed us that Her Majesty had finished dinner , and would we please come and take ours . 
The Young Empress was also very much surprised and asked me whether I knew anything about it . 
I said that perhaps it was on account of Miss Carl being there . 
The Young Empress told me to go over and ask Her Majesty , as she was afraid to sit down without receiving orders to do so . 
Her Majesty whispered to me I don't want Miss Carl to think we are barbarians , and treat the Young Empress and the Court ladies in that manner . 
After Her Majesty had washed her hands she came over to our table . 
Of course we all stood up . 
Her Majesty told me to ask Miss Carl whether she liked the food , and was pleased when Miss Carl answered that she liked the food better than her own kind . 
After dinner was over I told Miss Carl to say good bye to Her Majesty . 
We courtesied to her , also to the Young Empress , and said good night to the Court ladies . 
We then took Miss Carl to the Palace of Prince Chung . 
It took us about ten minutes' ride in the carts . 
We showed Miss Carl her bedroom , and were pleased to leave her and get to our own rooms , for a good night's rest . 
The next morning we took Miss Carl to the Palace , and arrived there during the morning audience . 
Moreover , during the time I had been at Court , my one object had been to endeavor to interest Her Majesty in Western customs and civilization . 
I believed that to a great extent Her Majesty was becoming interested in these things , and would refer the subjects of our conversations to her Ministers , for their opinions . 
For instance , I had shown her photographs taken of a Naval Review at which I was present in France . 
Her Majesty seemed to be impressed , and said that she would certainly like to be able to make a similar display in China . 
This matter she consulted with her Ministers , but they gave the usual evasive answer , viz . 
There is plenty of time for that . 
My experience while at the Palace was that everybody seemed to be afraid to suggest anything new for fear they might get themselves into trouble . 
Afterwards , however , when we were alone , she asked me why Miss Carl had done this , as it was not a Chinese custom . 
She naturally thought that it must be a foreign custom , and therefore said nothing about it . 
Her Majesty then proceeded on foot to her own Palace , to change her dress for the portrait . 
Still , I had to humor Her Majesty as much as possible , otherwise she might have thrown up the whole thing . 
This pleased Her Majesty , and she said that she would try to sit again after taking her afternoon's rest . 
Her Majesty ordered me to give Miss Carl her lunch in my own room at twelve o'clock each day , my mother , my sister and myself keeping her company . 
Where she got hold of this idea , nobody knew . 
I was sure that Her Majesty had been misinformed by somebody , but it would have been bad policy to have tried to tell her different at the moment . 
After Miss Carl had gone to rest during the afternoon , Her Majesty sent for me and asked the usual question , viz . 
What had Miss Carl been saying ? etc . 
However , on my assuring her that Miss Carl had given this opinion without being asked for it , she showed very plainly that she was not at all displeased with the compliment . 
I told her that would be quite impossible , as nobody could hold the things for Miss Carl to get the proper effect . 
To my surprise she answered Well , that is easily gotten over . 
You wear them in my place . 
I hardly knew what to say , but thought I would get out of the difficulty by telling her that perhaps Miss Carl would not like such an arrangement . 
Her Majesty , however , could see no possible objection on Miss Carl's part , as she herself could pose when the time came for painting her face . 
CHAPTER FOURTEEN THE EMPEROR'S BIRTHDAY MY father's four months' leave having expired , he was received in audience by their Majesties on the first day of the sixth moon . 
He was much improved in health , but his rheumatism was still very troublesome . 
This was particularly noticeable when climbing the steps to the Audience Hall , and Her Majesty ordered two of the eunuchs to assist him . 
This ceremony was always gone through by any official who had received special favors from Their Majesties . 
He then replaced his hat on his head and remained kneeling before the throne . 
Her Majesty then questioned him about his life in Paris , from time to time complimenting him on his work . 
She said she was pleased , that although we had been away from China for such a long time , we were well acquainted with the Manchu customs . 
My father replied that it had been his care that we should be brought up according to the customs of our own country . 
My father explained that he had never had the time to study it , besides which he considered himself too old to learn a foreign language . 
The Emperor next asked what was the feeling in France towards China . 
My father replied that they were very friendly at that time , but that immediately after the Boxer trouble the post of Minister had been a very embarrassing one . 
Her Majesty said that it had been an unfortunate affair , but she was glad that everything was now settled satisfactorily . 
She told my father that he was to get well again as quickly as possible , and the audience came to an end . 
Afterwards Her Majesty said that my father was looking very old since his return from France and that he would have to be careful and take things easy until he got stronger again . 
She was pleased that he had shown appreciation of her interest in my sister and myself . 
Preparations were now commenced for celebrating the birthday of His Majesty , the Emperor Kwang Hsu , which was to take place on the th of that month . 
The official celebration lasted for seven days , three days before and four days after the actual date . 
During that time the whole of the Court dressed in official robes , and no business of any kind whatever was attended to . 
This being the Emperor's nd birthday , and as the full celebrations only took place every tenth year , i . 
On his th birthday , his th birthday , and so on , the festivities were not carried out on a very grand scale . 
However , it was quite sufficient to interfere with all business , and the usual morning audiences did not take place during these seven days . 
The Empress Dowager herself was the only person who did not dress especially during these celebrations , and who did not take any active part in the festivities . 
During this period , therefore , the painting of the portrait was postponed . 
When the morning of the th arrived , the Emperor dressed himself in his official robe yellow gown , embroidered with gold dragons and coat of a reddish black color . 
Of course , being the Emperor , in place of the usual button on the hat he wore a large pearl . 
I might mention that the Emperor was the only person who could wear this particular pearl in place of a button . 
He came as usual to wish Her Majesty Chi Hsiang and then proceeded to the temple to worship before the ancestral tablets . 
After this ceremony was over he returned to the Empress Dowager and kowtowed to her . 
All the Chinese adopt this rule of kowtowing to their parents on their own birthdays , as a sign of reverence and respect . 
The Emperor next proceeded to the Audience Hall , where all the Ministers were assembled , and received their salutations and congratulations . 
Even the Emperor himself had to laugh , it was such an extraordinary spectacle . 
The musical instruments which were used during the ceremony deserve a little description . 
The principal instrument is made of hard wood , and has a flat bottom about three feet in diameter , with a dome shaped top raised about three feet from the ground . 
The inside is quite hollow . 
A long pole made of the same material is used as a drumstick , and an official , specially appointed , beats with all his might on the drum . 
The noise can be better imagined than described . 
This is used as a signal to announce when the Emperor takes his seat upon the throne . 
In this case they did not beat the instrument , but scraped along its back over the scales , which emitted a noise similar to the letting off simultaneously of innumerable crackers . 
This noise was kept up during the whole of the ceremony , and what with the drum and this tiger instrument it was sufficient to deafen one . 
During the ceremony , an official crier used to call out the different orders , such as when to kneel , bow , stand up , kowtow , etc . 
, but with the noise it was quite impossible to hear a single word of what he uttered . 
Another instrument was composed of a frame made of wood , about eight feet high by three feet broad . 
Across this frame were three wooden bars , from which was suspended twelve bells , made out of pure gold . 
When these were struck with a wooden stick the sound was not at all unlike the dulcimer , only , of course , very much louder . 
This was placed on the right side of the Audience Hall . 
On the left side a similar instrument was placed , with the exception that the bells were carved out of white jade . 
The music which could be brought out of the instrument was very sweet . 
This is a kind of sceptre . 
Some are made out of pure jade , while others are made out of wood inlaid with jade . 
This Ru Yee is a symbol of good luck and was supposed to bring happiness and prosperity to the person to whom it was presented . 
The ceremony was gone through to the accompaniment of music played on string instruments , which was very sweet . 
Next the eunuchs were received by the Emperor , and they similarly congratulated him , but without the accompaniment of music . 
After the eunuchs came the servant girls , and the whole of the ceremony was over . 
Two days after the celebration the seventh moon commenced . 
The seventh day of the seventh moon was the occasion of another important anniversary . 
are supposed to be the patrons of agriculture and weaving and , according to tradition , were at one time man and wife . 
As the result of a quarrel , however , they were doomed to live apart , being separated from each other by the Milky Way . 
But on the seventh day of the seventh moon of each year they are allowed to see each other and the magpies are supposed to build a bridge to enable them to meet . 
The ceremony is rather peculiar . 
Several basins full of water were placed so that the sun's rays would fall upon them . 
Her Majesty then took several tiny needles and dropped one into each basin . 
These floated on the water , casting a shadow across the bottom of the basins . 
In addition , Her Majesty burned incense and offered up prayers to the two gods referred to . 
On the anniversary above referred to Her Majesty sent for hundreds of Buddhist priests to pray for those unfortunate people who had died without leaving anyone who could sacrifice for them . 
Her Majesty ordered us to light the candles and place the flowers on the water ourselves , as she said it would be appreciated by the spirits of the dead . 
Some of the eunuchs had told Her Majesty that they had actually seen some of these spirits , which assertion was thoroughly believed . 
Of course we didn't see anything , but many of the Court ladies were so frightened that they closed their eyes for fear they might see something supernatural . 
Her Majesty was devoted to the late Emperor Hsien Feng , and she was very sad and morose during this period . 
We all had to be very careful indeed not to upset her in any way , as she would find fault on the slightest provocation . 
She hardly had a word to say to any of us , and cried almost incessantly . 
I could hardly understand the reason for such grief , seeing that the Emperor had died so many years previously . 
None of the Court ladies were allowed to dress in light coloured gowns during the whole of the seventh moon . 
We all dressed either in dark blue or pale blue , while Her Majesty herself dressed in black every day without exception . 
Even her handkerchiefs were black . 
The theatres which were usually opened on the first and fifteenth of each month , were closed during the seventh moon . 
There was no music , and everything was conducted in the most solemn manner in fact , the whole Court was in deep mourning . 
On the morning of the seventeenth day of the seventh moon , Her Majesty visited the late Emperor's tablet , and knelt there crying for quite a while . 
In order to show respect for the late Emperor , none of us were allowed to eat meat for three days . 
This being my first year at the Palace , it appeared to me very strange , after the customary gaiety and noise . 
Of course I felt very sorry for Her Majesty , as I could see that it was a genuine display of grief and was not in any way put on . 
As I was her favorite at that time , she kept me close to her side during this sad period . 
The Young Empress said to me one day Her Majesty is very much attached to you , and I think you had better stay with her for the time being . 
This I did , and I was so miserable myself that when Her Majesty commenced crying I would cry also . 
When she saw that I was crying , Her Majesty would immediately stop and ask me not to cry . 
She would tell me that I was too young to cry , and that in any case I did not know what real sorrow was as yet . 
During the conversations we had at that time she would tell me quite a lot about herself . 
On one occasion she said You know I have had a very hard life ever since I was a young girl . 
I was not a bit happy when with my parents , as I was not the favorite . 
My sisters had everything they wanted , while I was , to a great extent , ignored altogether . 
When I first came to the Court , a lot of the people were jealous of me because I was considered to be a beautiful woman at that time . 
I must say myself that I was a clever one , for I fought my own battles , and won them , too . 
When I arrived at Court the late Emperor became very much attached to me and would hardly glance at any of the other ladies . 
Fortunately , I was lucky in giving birth to a son , as it made me the Emperor's undisputed favorite but after that I had very bad luck . 
During the last year of his reign the Emperor was seized with a sudden illness . 
In addition to this the foreign soldiers burnt down the Palace at Yuen Ming Yuen , so we fled to Jehol . 
Of course everybody knows what took place at that time . 
I was still a young woman , with a dying husband and a young son . 
The East Empress Dowager's nephew was a bad man , who coveted the throne , which he had no right to in any event , as he was not of royal blood . 
I would not wish anyone to experience what I myself passed through at that time . 
I naturally felt relieved when this was settled once and for all . 
These words were practically the last he spoke , for he died immediately afterwards . 
Although it is now so many years ago , I can see him now in that dying condition , just as though it all happened only yesterday . 
I thought that I could be happy with my son as the Emperor Tung Chi , but unfortunately he died before he was twenty years of age . 
Since that time I have been a changed woman , as all happiness was over as far as I was concerned when he died . 
I had also quite a lot of trouble with the East Empress Dowager and found it very difficult to keep on good terms with her . 
However , she died five years after the death of my son . 
His parents seemed to be afraid of giving him anything to eat . 
Even now , after all my trouble on his account , he is not in perfect health . 
As you know , I have had plenty of other troubles beside these , but it is useless to mention them now . 
I am disappointed with everything , as nothing has turned out as I had expected . 
With this remark Her Majesty commenced crying afresh . 
I have gone through much more than that . 
If ever anything went wrong , I was always the one who was blamed . 
The censors even dare to impeach me once in a while . 
However , I am philosopher enough to take things for what they are worth , otherwise I would have been in my own grave long , long ago . 
Just imagine how small minded these people are . 
Amongst other things they objected to my transferring my Court to the Summer Palace during the hot weather , although I could do no harm by being there . 
After the time set apart for mourning had expired , we all went back to the Summer Palace , where Miss Carl re commenced her work on Her Majesty's portrait . 
Her Majesty apparently soon got tired of this portrait painting , for one day she asked me when I thought it would be finished . 
I told Her Majesty that it could easily be arranged and that she need not worry herself . 
So we had no further trouble with Miss Carl after that . 
I had , however , quite a lot of trouble with the eunuchs , who , in spite of Her Majesty's instructions , were anything but polite to Miss Carl . 
Of course Miss Carl herself did not know this . 
I tried to make them behave better by threatening to tell Her Majesty about them , which had a good effect for a while , but they were soon as bad as ever . 
Every day we went over to water these flowers until they began to bud . 
In case it rained heavily , Her Majesty would order some of the eunuchs to go over and cover up these chrysanthemum plants with mats , so that they would not be broken . 
She also spent quite a time in looking after her orchard , where she had planted apple trees , pear trees , etc . 
Another thing which I began to notice was that when the spring and summer days had passed , she got quite irritable and sad , while in the winter she was simply unbearable . 
One day , during the eighth moon , Her Majesty was taken slightly ill , and complained of suffering from severe headaches . 
This was the only time I ever saw Her Majesty actually sick . 
She , however , got up as usual in the morning , and held audience , but was unable to take her luncheon , and very soon had to retire to her bed . 
Several doctors were summoned , each of whom took her pulse . 
This was quite a ceremony in itself . 
The doctors knelt at the bedside , and Her Majesty stretched forth her arm , resting her hand upon a small pillow which was provided for that purpose . 
After this each doctor wrote out his prescription , all of which were different from each other . 
Then she would take it all right . 
During this time it rained a great deal and was very hot . 
The climate at this time of the year is very damp , which causes the flies to make their appearance in millions . 
If there was one thing more than another that Her Majesty detested it was these flies . 
During the actual summer they were not so troublesome as at this particular time . 
We were never troubled by mosquitoes , however in fact I never saw a mosquito curtain in the Palace during the whole of my stay there . 
These flies were an abomination , and in spite of all that could be done a few would find their way into the rooms . 
Whenever they alighted on Her Majesty she would scream , while if by any chance one were to alight on her food she would order the whole lot to be thrown away . 
This would spoil her appetite for the whole day and put her into a terrible temper as well . 
Whenever she saw one anywhere near her , she would order whoever happened to be present to go and catch it . 
I myself often received this order , but I detested them almost as much as Her Majesty did , they were so dirty , and stuck to one's hands whenever they touched them . 
After her illness Her Majesty was indisposed more or less for quite a long time , and doctors were constantly in attendance . 
She took so many different kinds of medicine that instead of getting better she got worse and eventually contracted a fever . 
Another peculiarity was Her Majesty's aversion for any kind of perfume near her when she was sick , while when she was feeling well she was simply smothered in it . 
The same applied to fresh flowers in spite of her love for them under ordinary conditions , when she was sick she could not bear them anywhere near . 
Her nerves became absolutely unstrung , as she was unable to sleep during the day , and consequently the time passed very slowly to her . 
In order to make the time pass a little less tediously , she gave instructions for one of the better educated eunuchs to read to her during the daytime . 
This same program was gone through every day until she was completely herself again some ten days later . 
This must be very dangerous , as you never know what they are made of . 
Another thing I have heard is that foreign doctors generally operate on you with a knife , while we cure the same sickness by means of our medicine . 
Li Lien Ying told me that one of our little eunuchs had a boil on his wrist and someone advised him to go to the hospital . 
Of course they didn't know what they would do , and the foreign doctor there opened the boil with a knife , which frightened the child very much . 
I was very much surprised when I heard he was all right again in a couple of days . 
I did not like to offend her , so I took the pills and told her I would take them by and bye . 
However , I was afraid to take them and threw them away . 
Of course I answered that I didn't know much about medicines , to which she replied that she had seen me take foreign medicines whenever I was not feeling well . 
She then said Of course I know there are people in Peking who do take the medicines given them by foreign doctors and even some of my own relatives patronize these foreigners also . 
They try not to let me know , but I do know for all that . 
She always appeared to enjoy this kind of thing . 
It was a characteristic of Her Majesty to experience a keen sense of enjoyment at the troubles of other people . 
The eunuchs knew this quite well , and whenever opportunity offered , they would do something which they thought would amuse Her Majesty . 
Thus it was very hard to tell just what to do in order to please her . 
Another of Her Majesty's peculiarities was inquisitiveness . 
Whenever it happened that we were very busy , we did not bother with the sweetmeats at all , which Her Majesty very soon found out . 
She did not say anything , but simply ordered that the sweetmeats should be brought back again , making us believe that she wanted some more herself . 
I knew that there was something wrong , as she never ordered them back before . 
However , after thinking it over , I came to the conclusion that it would be best to tell her the truth , for I was quite certain that she knew anyhow . 
She turned to me , and said I am glad that you have told the truth , as I saw myself what was happening . 
Of course I knew the eunuchs were a bad lot , but could not see what cause they had to be against me in any way . 
I knew they dare not say anything against me to Her Majesty , so I forgot all about the matter . 
I found out afterwards that one of the tricks they used to play on any of the Court ladies who offended them was to try and prejudice Her Majesty against us . 
In this way Her Majesty would get the impression that I was too lazy to wait upon her myself , and of course the other lady would get all the credit . 
Everything proceeded as usual until the eighth moon , when the Emperor was to sacrifice at the Temple of the Sun . 
On this occasion the Emperor wore a red robe . 
About this time Mrs. Conger asked for a private audience , as she wanted to see Her Majesty and at the same time see how the portrait was progressing . 
Her Majesty replied that she would receive her and gave orders accordingly . 
At this private audience Mrs. Conger brought into the Court two of her relatives to be presented to Her Majesty , besides Miss Campbell and a missionary lady . 
As it was a private audience , the guests were conducted to Her Majesty's private Palace . 
She was in an unusually good humor that day and told me to give orders to the eunuchs to open all the buildings and show them to her guests . 
There were many chairs in this room , but they were really small thrones of Her Majesty's , although they looked like any ordinary chairs . 
I noticed her at once , and before I had a chance to warn her , Her Majesty made a sign of annoyance to me . 
I went to this lady at once and told her I wanted to show her something and naturally she was obliged to get up . 
While I was busy interpreting for her , she said in an undertone There she is again , sitting on my bed . 
We had better leave this room . 
After this the ladies were conducted to the refreshment room , and when they had partaken of lunch , bade Her Majesty good bye , leaving Miss Carl with us . 
As usual we reported to her that we had seen the guests safely off . 
She said to me That was a funny lady first she sat upon my throne , and then upon my bed . 
Perhaps she does not know what a throne is when she sees one , and yet foreigners laugh at us . 
I am sure that our manners are far superior to theirs . 
She thereupon told me to go and ask Miss Carl what it was . 
At that time I had received so many peculiar orders from Her Majesty that I was beginning to get accustomed to them and used my own discretion in carrying out her instructions . 
Therefore I did not ask Miss Carl , but set about finding out for myself . 
However , when I began to look around for the parcel , it had mysteriously disappeared and I could not find the thing anywhere . 
This naturally worried me , knowing as I did that Her Majesty liked her instructions carried out quickly . 
While I was searching , one of the eunuchs came in and told me that Her Majesty wanted to see me , and of course I had to go to her . 
So I opened up the parcel , which proved to contain nothing more than an ordinary American monthly magazine . 
After glancing through the book , I made an excuse to hurry away and inform Her Majesty . 
However , she had already gone out for her usual trip on the lake , so I took my chair and followed . 
When I reached the lake , Her Majesty , who had seen me , sent a small boat and I was rowed out to the launch . 
I was very much disappointed that I had had my journey for nothing . 
I knew that the eunuchs would report it to Her Majesty at the first opportunity , but I hardly expected they would have done so already . 
Her Majesty was now quite satisfied , and simply asked whether Miss Carl suspected that she had enquired about the matter . 
I answered that so far whenever any foreigners were present I was present also and did not think that anybody had held any conversation with the Emperor whatsoever . 
CHAPTER FIFTEEN THE MID AUTUMN FESTIVAL ON the fifteenth day of the eighth moon came the celebration of the Mid Autumn Festival , sometimes called the Moon Festival . 
This name is derived from the belief which the Chinese hold that the moon is not permanently round when full , but that on this particular day it is a perfect circle . 
The ceremony which is gone through is conducted entirely by the Court ladies and consists of worshiping the moon as soon as it appears in the sky . 
In other respects the celebrations are exactly the same as in the Dragon Boat Festival , presents were exchanged between Her Majesty and the Court officials . 
The festival concluded with a theatrical performance which describes a scene in the moon . 
The belief is that a beautiful maiden lives in the moon , her only companion being a white rabbit , called a Jade Rabbit . 
According to the play this rabbit escapes from the moon to the Earth and becomes a young and beautiful girl . 
A golden rooster which lives in the sun , becoming aware of the rabbit's descent to the earth , himself descends from the sun and changes into a handsome prince . 
Of course they very naturally meet and immediately fall in love . 
During this performance the head eunuch brought a young man into the courtyard , who kowtowed to Her Majesty . 
This was such an unusual occurrence that everybody noticed it . 
I could see that he was a stranger and did not belong to the Court and I wondered who he could be . 
At the other end of the veranda I saw two or three of the Court ladies whispering together and smiling . 
They finally came over to me and asked if I knew who he was . 
I told them that he was a stranger to me and they ought to know better than I did as they had been at the Court much longer . 
Anyhow I gave it as my opinion that he was decidedly ugly . 
I was surprised that Her Majesty should give such a lengthy explanation about this young man , but I told her that I did not think him very handsome . 
I saw that Her Majesty was holding a photograph in her hands which she showed to my mother , at the same time asking whether my mother considered him good looking . 
My mother answered not very . 
On Her Majesty replying that beauty was not everything I began to suspect that there was something going on which directly concerned me . 
I began to think of some excuse in order to get out of what I could plainly see was a proposed marriage between myself and this gentleman . 
When Her Majesty retired for her usual afternoon rest she told me she wanted to see me for a moment . 
Her Majesty informed me that it had been her intention to marry me to this young gentleman and asked my opinion . 
Her Majesty said that was no excuse as I should not have to go out of China but would be able to see my father and family any time I wished . 
I told Her Majesty that I would much rather stay with her altogether and that I did not want to marry anybody . 
Her Majesty then said I won't listen to any excuse . 
Had it not been for this fact I would simply have arranged everything with your mother and the matter would have been settled so far as you were concerned . 
I could not say anything in answer to this , so commenced to cry . 
I promised that I would stay with her forever , and that I had no desire to go away from China again . 
I explained that I should not have gone away at all had it not been that my father was transferred to Paris . 
After a lot more discussion Her Majesty said Well , I will leave you to think the matter over . 
However , I had managed to get out of it this time , and thought I would be able to arrange matters satisfactorily should the question come up again . 
Nothing further was said about the matter until nearly a month later when I heard that a marriage had been arranged between this gentleman and the daughter of one of the princes . 
So everything ended very satisfactorily from my point of view . 
The twenty sixth day of the eighth moon was the occasion of another celebration . 
Thus the anniversary of this day , even up to the present time , is always celebrated by the Manchu people , who deny themselves all luxuries , especially at the Court . 
We did not eat any meat on that day , but only rice wrapped in lettuce leaves . 
Chopsticks were also discarded and the food was conveyed to the mouth by the hands alone . 
Even the Empress Dowager was no exception to this rule . 
This is done in order to remind the present generation of the privation suffered by their ancestors who established the Manchu Dynasty . 
She would pick out those which she considered to be the most perfect in form , i . 
, those with the smallest waist and tie ribbons around them so as not to lose sight of them . 
She pointed to one of these plants one day , and said to me This reminds me of yourself when dressed in foreign clothes . 
Surely you feel more comfortable in the clothes you are now wearing . 
When these gourds were quite ripe they were cut down and Her Majesty would scrape the outer skin with a bamboo knife , afterwards wiping the fruit with a wet cloth . 
They were then allowed to dry and after a few days they would assume a brownish color , when they were ready for hanging as ornaments in the Summer Palace . 
In one room alone there were over , of these gourds , of different shapes . 
None of us cared very much about this work excepting Her Majesty . 
One day whilst attending to these gourds I happened to knock the top off one of the old ones which was Her Majesty's particular favorite . 
However , I finally decided to go and tell Her Majesty about it , and take punishment if necessary . 
For a wonder Her Majesty did not make much bother about it . 
I told Her Majesty that I was very much ashamed at being so careless , especially as I knew it was one of her favorites , and there the matter ended . 
They laughed , and said it must be nice to be a favorite which made me feel very uncomfortable . 
This trimming gives the flower a better chance of developing , a much larger blossom being the result . 
Even Her Majesty would help with this work . 
These flowers are generally in full bloom about the end of the ninth moon or beginning of the tenth moon . 
Her Majesty had a wonderful gift of being able to tell what kind of flower would bloom from each separate plant , even before the buds appeared . 
She would say This is going to be a red flower , and we would place a bamboo stick in the flower pot , with the name written on it . 
Then another , Her Majesty would declare to be a white one and we would place a similar bamboo stick in the flower pot , with the description , and so on . 
For you will see when the flowers commence to bloom . 
It was a fact as everything turned out exactly as she had predicted . 
None of us ever knew how she was able to distinguish one from the other , but she was always right . 
I did once ask her to explain how she was able to tell but she answered that it was a secret . 
She suggested decorating Miss Carl as a reward for her services , which she considered would be appreciated far more than a money present . 
There was nothing for me to say at this time but I determined to mention the matter again when a favorable opportunity occurred . 
During the ninth moon a Russian circus visited Peking and of course everybody talked of little else . 
Her Majesty was delighted with the idea , and arrangements were accordingly made for the performance . 
While everything was being fixed , the people belonging to the circus , and the animals , were quartered near our own house and we had to feed them at our own expense . 
However , we wanted to show Her Majesty what a circus was like so the expense did not matter . 
Her Majesty was very angry , and said You see how much power I have here I cannot even have a circus without somebody raising objections . 
I think we had better pay them something and let them go away . 
Of course we agreed to anything she thought best . 
So the performance duly took place and Her Majesty and all the Court were delighted . 
One item consisted of a young girl walking and dancing on a large globe . 
This especially pleased Her Majesty and she insisted on the performance being repeated several times . 
Another item of interest was the trapeze act . 
Another thing which interested Her Majesty was the bare back riding , which she thought simply wonderful . 
The only objection to the whole show which she raised was when it was suggested to bring in the lions and tigers , etc . 
She said it was not safe to bring wild beasts into the Palace and that she would rather not see this part of the performance . 
The proprietor of the circus , however , brought in a small baby elephant which performed several clever tricks . 
This delighted Her Majesty more than anything else and when the proprietor saw how pleased she was he offered the elephant as a present , which she accepted . 
So after a lot of discussion Her Majesty finally consented to allow them to be brought in but on the distinct understanding that they should not be let out of their cages . 
She said I am not afraid for myself , but they might get loose and hurt some of the people . 
This item finished the whole of the performance and the circus departed richer by some Taels , which Her Majesty had ordered to be given to them . 
For the next couple of days we discussed the merits of the circus but afterwards , Her Majesty , when referring to the subject , expressed great disappointment with the whole thing . 
She said she had expected something entirely different and far more wonderful . 
This was another characteristic of Her Majesty nothing pleased her for more than five minutes at a time . 
She said to me I don't see anything at all wonderful in foreign accomplishments . 
Take for instance this portrait which this lady is painting . 
I don't think it is going to be at all a good picture , it seems so rough . 
Then again why should she always want to have the things before her while painting them . 
An ordinary Chinese artist could paint my dress , shoes , etc . 
, after seeing the things once . 
She cannot be very much of an artist in my opinion , though you need not tell her that I said so . 
Be sure not to tell her anything connected with the Court life and do not teach her any Chinese . 
I hear that she often asks what different things are called in Chinese , but don't tell her . 
The less she knows the better for us . 
I can see that she has seen nothing of our ordinary Court life , as yet . 
I wonder what she would say if she were to see one of the eunuchs being punished , or anything like that . 
She would think that we were savages , I suppose . 
I noticed the other day , when I was angry , that you took this lady artist away . 
This was very wise of you it is better that she should not see me in a temper , she might talk about it afterwards . 
I wish this portrait was finished . 
The cool weather is coming on and we have to open up the boxes and get our winter clothes ready . 
You girls need winter clothes I know as you have none but foreign dresses . 
Then , again , my birthday is next month and there will be the usual celebrations . 
This will be a lot of trouble as it is not ten minutes' drive as at present , but nearer an hour's drive . 
Of course , I told her that instead of being tired of it , I enjoyed sitting on Her Throne , which I regarded as a great honor . 
For the next ten days we were kept very busy selecting materials for winter clothing and also official robes for my sister and myself to be worn during the forthcoming birthday celebrations . 
These dresses were full winter Court dresses , of red satin embroidered with golden dragons and blue clouds , and were trimmed with gold braid and lined with grey squirrel . 
The cuffs and collars were of sable . 
While Her Majesty was giving one of the eunuchs instructions as to how these were to be made , the Young Empress beckoned to me , and I went out . 
She said You go and kowtow to Her Majesty as it is a great favor for her to give you a dress trimmed with sable . 
This is usually only worn by a Princess . 
So when I returned to the room I availed myself of the first opportunity to kowtow and thank Her Majesty for the great favor she had granted me . 
She answered You deserve it , and I see no reason why you should not be treated as a Princess anyway many of the Princesses are not of the Imperial family . 
You may think I do not notice these things , but I do . 
You are certainly entitled to be ranked as a Princess , and in fact I never treat you different from the Princesses , but rather better in many ways . 
Turning to a eunuch she said Bring my fur cap here . 
In addition to the cap and full Court dress Her Majesty had two ordinary dresses made for everyday wear , one lined with sheepskin and the other lined with grey squirrel . 
Then she gave us four other dresses of finer material , lined with black and white fox skin , and all trimmed with gold braid and embroidered ribbons . 
In addition there were two other dresses , one of a pale pink color , embroidered with one hundred butterflies and the other of a reddish color embroidered with green bamboo leaves . 
Several short jackets , also lined with fur , were also included in Her Majesty's present , and several sleeveless jackets went to complete the lot . 
I could see she was jealous . 
This incident was the beginning of another unpleasant time for me with the ladies of the Court . 
At first I took no notice until one day one of the girls attached to the Palace joined in the unkind remarks . 
She said that before my arrival she had been Her Majesty's particular favorite , but I gave her to understand that she had no right to discuss me in any way whatsoever . 
The Young Empress , who was present , spoke to them about their treatment of me and said that some fine day I would be telling Her Majesty about it . 
This seemed to have a good effect for they never troubled me much afterwards with their talk . 
So she gave instructions for the eunuchs to prepare for the play , which should be staged without the assistance of any outside actors . 
I might here mention that certain of the eunuchs were specially trained as actors and used to study their parts every day . 
Indeed , they were far cleverer than the professionals from outside . 
After Her Majesty had gone to rest in the afternoon , during the theatrical performance I met the Emperor returning to his own Palace . 
I was surprised to see only one eunuch in attendance . 
This was the Emperor's own private eunuch and he trusted him implicitly . 
He asked me where I was going and I told him I was going to my room to rest a while . 
He remarked that he had not seen me for quite a long time , which made me laugh as I saw him every morning at the audience . 
He said I don't get as much chance of chatting with you as formerly since this portrait painting began . 
I am afraid I am not making much progress with my English as I have nobody to help me now that your time is occupied with this lady artist . 
You appear to enjoy her company very much . 
All the same I suppose it is very monotonous . 
The Emperor then said I understand there is a rumor to the effect that when this lady has finished Her Majesty's portrait she is going to paint mine . 
I should very much like to know who says so . 
I told him this was the first I had heard about it so could not say . 
I asked him whether he would like to have his portrait painted but he only answered That is rather a difficult question for me to answer . 
You know best whether I ought to have it painted or not . 
I see Her Majesty having so many photographs taken and even the eunuchs are in the picture . 
I understood at once what he meant , so I asked him if he wished me to take him with my little kodak . 
He looked surprised and asked Can you take pictures , too ? If it is not too risky for us , we might try it some day when we have an opportunity . 
Don't forget , but I think we must be very careful . 
He then changed the conversation by saying Well , now that we have time to talk I want to ask you a question and I expect you to answer me truly . 
What is the general opinion amongst the foreigners regarding myself ? Do they consider me a man of character and do they think me clever ? I am very anxious to know . 
If any wrong impression does exist regarding myself and my position at the Court , continued the Emperor , it is owing to the very conservative customs of the Chinese Court . 
I know this is so . 
Whenever they ask you about me in the future just explain to them exactly what my position here is . 
I have plenty of ideas regarding the development of this country but you know I am not able to carry them out as I am not my own master . 
I don't think the Empress Dowager herself has sufficient power to alter the state of things existing in China at present , and even if she has , she is not willing to . 
I am afraid it will be a long time before anything can be done towards reform . 
I told him that several Princesses had expressed a wish to visit the St . 
The Emperor expressed doubts as to this permission being granted as such a thing had never been heard of before . 
Just then one of my eunuchs came and said that Her Majesty was awake , so I had to hurry off to her room . 
We now arrive at the tenth moon . 
The first day it snowed , and the head eunuch enquired of Her Majesty whether it was her intention to celebrate her birthday at the Summer Palace as usual . 
As previously explained the Summer Palace was Her Majesty's favorite place of abode so she replied in the affirmative and arrangements were accordingly made for the celebration to be held there as usual . 
On this occasion she selected forty five ladies , who were duly informed that she desired their presence at the Palace . 
The celebrations commenced on the sixth day of the tenth moon . 
Miss Carl , having returned to the American Legation in Peking for the time being , my mother , my sister and myself went back to the Palace again . 
Early on the morning of the sixth , the eunuchs decorated the verandas with different colored silks and hung lanterns all over the place and amongst the trees . 
At about seven o'clock in the morning the visitors began to arrive and I quite agreed with what Her Majesty had told me about them . 
The eunuchs introduced them to all the Court ladies , but they seemed to have very little to say , appearing very shy . 
They were then conducted to the waiting room , but there were so many of them that we Court ladies had to stand outside on the veranda . 
Some of them were very expensively dressed , but their colors were , for the most part , very old fashioned , and their manners very awkward . 
We watched them for quite a while and then went off to report to Her Majesty . 
On such occasions as this Her Majesty was generally in pretty good spirits . 
She commenced asking us a lot of questions . 
Amongst other things she asked whether we had noticed an elderly lady among the visitors , dressed as a bride . 
She explained that this lady was the only Manchu lady present who was married to a Chinese official , and had been invited because of her previous connection with the Court . 
Her Majesty said she had never seen her herself , but understood that she was a very clever woman . 
We had not noticed such a person , and suggested that perhaps she had not yet arrived . 
Her Majesty dressed very quickly , and as soon as she was ready she came into the hall , where the head eunuch brought in the visitors and presented them to Her Majesty . 
We Court ladies were all standing in a row behind the Throne . 
As they came in , some kowtowed others courtesied , while others did not do anything at all , in fact nobody appeared to know what to do with herself . 
Her Majesty spoke a few words of welcome and thanked them for the presents they had sent her . 
I would like to say here that , contrary to the general idea which exists , Her Majesty always expressed her thanks for any present or service rendered , no matter how insignificant . 
They hesitated a moment , not knowing whether to go or not , until Her Majesty said to us Take them and present them to the Young Empress . 
When we arrived at the Palace of the Young Empress they were duly presented and were not nearly so shy as before . 
So we each were allotted so many guests and had to look after them and instruct them how to act on the different occasions . 
During Her Majesty's afternoon rest I paid a visit to the guests I was to take charge of . 
Among them was the bride referred to by Her Majesty . 
So I went and made myself agreeable to her and found her very interesting . 
She had evidently received a good education , unlike the majority of Manchu ladies , as I found she could read and write Chinese exceptionally well . 
I then explained to all of them what they would have to do , and how to address Her Majesty , should it be necessary to do so . 
In all Manchu families a similar rule is observed , the pronouns You and I being dispensed with and the titles Mother and Father and the son's or daughter's first name being substituted . 
Her Majesty was very particular about this rule being strictly observed . 
For the next four days , until the day of the ceremony , these visitors passed their time in learning the Court etiquette and going to the theatre . 
Every morning , as usual , we waited on Her Majesty and reported anything of interest which had occurred during the previous day . 
Then we all preceded Her Majesty to the theatre , where we awaited her arrival standing in the courtyard . 
The first two days everything went of all right , but on the third morning the Emperor , from whom we received the signal , suddenly turned and said Her Majesty is coming . 
Down we all went on our knees , the Emperor alone remaining standing and laughing at us . 
Of course there was no sign of Her Majesty and everybody joined in the laugh . 
He was never so happy as when he could work off a joke like this . 
On the evening of the ninth , none of the Court ladies went to bed , as we all had to be up betimes on the morning of the tenth . 
The visitors were told to proceed by chair to Her Majesty's special Audience Hall on the top of the hill , where they were to await our arrival . 
They arrived at the Audience Hall at three o'clock in the morning , and we followed soon afterwards , arriving there about daybreak . 
By and bye Her Majesty arrived and the ceremony commenced . 
This ceremony in no way differed from the one previously described in connection with the Emperor's birthday , so there is no need to give particulars , except one thing . 
Very early on the morning of the tenth , we had to bring another present to her and each of us brought a hundred birds of various kinds . 
Each year , on her birthday , Her Majesty did a very peculiar thing . 
She would buy , birds with her own money , from her private purse and set them free . 
It was a very pretty sight to see those huge cages hung in the courtyard of the Audience Hall . 
Her Majesty would select the most lucky hour and order the eunuchs to carry the cages and to follow her . 
The hour selected was four o'clock in the afternoon . 
Her Majesty took the whole Court with her to the top of the hill , where there was a Temple . 
Her Majesty did this very seriously and we asked each other in whispers which bird we thought was the prettiest and would like to keep it for ourselves . 
Among this lot there were a few parrots . 
Some were pink others were red and green all were chained on stands , and when the eunuchs broke the chains , the parrots would not move . 
Her Majesty said How funny each year a few parrots will not go away at all and I have kept them until they died . 
By this time the head eunuch arrived . 
Her Majesty told him what had happened and he immediately knelt down and said Your Majesty's great luck . 
These parrots understand Your Majesty's kindness and would rather stay here and serve Your Majesty . 
This ceremony is called Fang Sheng . 
It is considered a very meritorious action and will not fail of reward in Heaven . 
One of the Court ladies asked me what I thought of the parrots that would not fly away , and I told her that it was really very strange . 
She said It is very simple and not strange at all . 
These eunuchs , ordered by the head one , have bought these parrots long ago and trained them . 
During Her Majesty's afternoon rest , these parrots were brought to the top of the very same hill every day to accustom them to the place . 
The celebrations were continued until the thirteenth day . 
Nobody did any work and all was gaiety and enjoyment , the theatre being open every day . 
Towards the close of the thirteenth day the visitors were informed that the celebrations were at an end and they made arrangements to leave early the next morning . 
They all bade Her Majesty good bye that evening and departed early the following day . 
For the next few days we were all busy preparing for removing to the Sea Palace . 
Her Majesty consulted her book and finally selected the d as being the most favorable day for this removal . 
So at six o'clock on the morning of the d the whole Court left the Summer Palace . 
It was snowing very heavily and the journey was only accomplished with great difficulty . 
Of course we were all in chairs , as usual , and the eunuchs who were not employed as chair bearers rode horseback . 
Many of the horses fell on the slippery stones and one of Her Majesty's chair bearers also slipped and brought Her Majesty to the ground . 
All of a sudden I thought something dreadful had happened , horses galloping and eunuchs howling Stop ! Stop ! ! I heard someone saying See if she is still alive . 
The whole procession stopped and blocked the way . 
This happened on the stone road just before entering the Western Gate . 
Finally we saw that Her Majesty's chair was resting on the ground , so we all alighted and went forward to see what had happened . 
Li Lien Ying said that would never do , for this chair bearer must have been careless , and how dare he carry the Old Buddha in this careless way . 
and said Give him eighty blows on his back . 
This poor victim , who was kneeling on the muddy ground , heard the order . 
The beaters took him about a hundred yards away from us , pushed him down and started to do their duty . 
He looked just as calm as could be . 
While we were waiting a eunuch handed me a cup of tea , which I presented to Her Majesty , and asked her if she was hurt . 
She smiled and said it was nothing , ordering us to proceed on our journey . 
I must explain about this tea the eunuchs had it prepared all the time and always carried a little stove along with hot water . 
Although this went every time when the Court moved , it was seldom used . 
As usual , all the Court ladies take a short cut to the Palace , so as to be ready to receive Her Majesty , when she arrived . 
Her Majesty also complained of the cold and ordered that fires should be brought into the hall . 
These fires were built in brass portable stoves lined with clay , and were lighted outside and brought into the hall after the smoke had passed off somewhat . 
There were four stoves in all . 
All the windows and doors were closed , there being no ventilation of any description , and very soon I began to feel sick . 
One of the Court ladies brought me a cup of turnip juice which Her Majesty said I was to drink . 
I drank it and felt much better . 
I was informed that Her Majesty had gone to rest , and so I went off to sleep again myself . 
When I awoke , Her Majesty was standing by my bedside . 
I tried to get up , but found that I was too weak , so Her Majesty told me to lie still and keep quiet and I would soon be all right again . 
She said that I had better have a room close to her bedroom , and gave instructions for the eunuchs to remove me there as soon as it was prepared . 
Every few minutes Her Majesty would send to inquire how I was progressing and whether I wanted anything to eat . 
Towards evening the head eunuch came to see me and brought several plates of sweetmeats . 
He sat talking for some little time , and told me to eat some of the sweetmeats . 
Of course I was not able to eat anything at all , let alone sweetmeats , so I told him to leave them and I would eat them later . 
Before leaving he said that in case I wanted anything I was to let him know . 
The next morning I was able to get up and resume my duties . 
I went in to see Her Majesty and kowtowed to her , thanking her for her kindness during my indisposition . 
Her Majesty said that the head eunuch had told her the previous evening that I was much better and that she was glad I was up and about again . 
She said it was nothing serious , simply that I was unaccustomed to the fumes from the fires , which had gone to my head . 
As the snow had stopped falling , Her Majesty decided that the next day we would go and choose a place for Miss Carl to continue the painting . 
Of course there were many parts of the Palace which were kept quite private and Miss Carl would not be allowed to go there . 
So the next day Her Majesty and myself set out to find a place . 
After visiting many different rooms , all of which were too dark , we finally fixed on a room on the lake side of the Palace . 
Her Majesty said This is very convenient , as you can go to and fro either by chair or by water . 
I found that it took about three quarters of an hour by chair to get to the Palace Gate , and rather less than that by boat . 
This was anything but pleasant , but I had no other alternative than to obey Her Majesty's instructions . 
When Miss Carl arrived at the Palace the next day and saw the room which had been selected for her to work in , she was not at all pleased . 
In the first place she said it was too dark , so Her Majesty ordered the paper windows to be replaced by glass . 
This made the room too bright , and Miss Carl asked for some curtains so as to focus the light on the picture . 
When I informed Her Majesty of this request , she said Well , this is the first time I have ever changed anything in the Palace except to suit myself . 
First I alter the windows , and she is not satisfied , but must have curtains . 
I think we had better take the roof off , then perhaps she may be suited . 
However , we fixed up the curtains to Miss Carl's satisfaction . 
I notice that the pearls in my cape are painted in different colors some look white , some pink , while others are green . 
You tell her about it . 
I again explained that this was simply the tints caused by the light falling on the pearls , but she replied that she could not see any shade except white . 
However , after a while she did not seem to trouble any further about the matter . 
Situated in a room near Her Majesty's bedroom in the Sea Palace was a Pagoda , about ten feet in height , made of carved sandalwood . 
This contained various images of Buddha , which Her Majesty used to worship every morning . 
The ceremony consisted of Her Majesty burning incense before the Pagoda , while a Court lady was told off each day to kowtow before the images . 
Her Majesty told me that this Pagoda had been in the Palace for more than a hundred years . 
Among the different images was one representing the Goddess of Mercy . 
This image was only about five inches in height and was made of pure gold . 
The inside was hollow and contained all the principal anatomical parts of the human body , made out of jade and pearls . 
This Goddess of Mercy was supposed to possess wonderful powers and Her Majesty often worshiped before it when in any trouble , and maintained that on many occasions her prayers had been answered . 
They had probably lived in the Sea Palace for thousands of years and possessed this power of changing their form at will . 
She said that no doubt the eunuchs would tell me they were spirits or ghosts , but that was not true they were sacred foxes and would harm nobody . 
He went out taking his lantern along with him , but he returned almost immediately with a face as white as chalk . 
On inquiring what was the matter , he replied I have seen a ghost a woman , who came up to me , blew the light out and disappeared . 
He stuck to it that it was a ghost . 
I told him that Her Majesty had said there were no ghosts , but that it might be a fox which had taken human shape . 
He replied It was not a fox . 
Her Majesty calls them foxes , because she is afraid to call them ghosts . 
He immediately raised the alarm , and on one of the attendants coming forward with a lantern , he explained what had occurred . 
The attendant showed him that it was impossible for anybody to jump into the well , as it was covered with a large stone . 
I told him that I did not believe such things and that I would very much like to see for myself . 
He replied You will only want to see it once that will be sufficient . 
On the ninth day the Emperor was to go and worship at the Temple of Heaven . 
Not even the Young Empress , his wife , was allowed to see him during these three days . 
Another difference was that the Emperor could not appoint a substitute to officiate for him but must attend in person , no matter what the circumstances might be . 
At the end of the year the name of each person executed is written on a piece of yellow paper and sent to the Emperor . 
So we all moved to the Palace in the Forbidden City . 
Of course we did not bother ourselves about it much at the moment , but the next morning the head eunuch reported to Her Majesty that fifty eunuchs were missing . 
As there was no apparent reason for this , everybody was much excited . 
One morning , however , one of Her Majesty's personal attendants was missing , which made her furious . 
She said that she had been very kind to this particular eunuch in many ways , and this was all the thanks she got he ran away at the first sign of trouble . 
These disappearances continued from day to day until Her Majesty decided that it would be safer for us to remain in the Forbidden City until the following spring at any rate . 
While talking about Li Lien Ying , my eunuch told me in confidence that he was responsible for the death of many innocent people , mostly eunuchs . 
Furthermore , the eunuch informed me that , although not generally known , Li Lien Ying was addicted to opium smoking , which habit he indulged in very freely . 
Even Her Majesty was unaware of this , as opium smoking was strictly forbidden in the Palace . 
Each morning there was fresh news regarding the trouble between Russia and Japan , and of course everybody gradually became very much excited at the Palace . 
I told her that my father received all these papers as they were published , so I arranged that they should be brought along as directed by Her Majesty . 
This was much quicker and interested Her Majesty so much that she insisted on my not only translating the war news , but everything else of interest in the papers . 
Especially was she interested in all news appertaining to the movements , etc . 
, of the crowned heads of Europe , and was very plainly astonished when she learned that their every movement was known . 
She said Here , at any rate , it is more private , for nobody outside the Palace ever knows what is going on inside , not even my own people . 
It would be a good thing if they did know a little more , then perhaps all these rumors about the Palace would stop . 
Of course , during our stay in the Forbidden City , Miss Carl attended each morning to work on the portrait . 
Things went very slowly during this eleventh moon on account of the Court being in mourning , so one day Her Majesty suggested that she should show us round the Forbidden City . 
First we proceeded to the Audience Hall . 
This differs somewhat from the Audience Hall of the Summer Palace . 
To enter , one must mount some twenty odd steps of white marble , with rails on either side of the steps made of the same material . 
At the top of the steps a large veranda , supported by huge pillars of wood , painted red , surrounded the building . 
The windows along this verandah were of marvellously carved trellis work , designed to represent the character Shou arranged in different positions . 
Then we entered the hall itself . 
The floor is of brick , and Her Majesty told us that all these bricks were of solid gold and had been there for centuries . 
They were of a peculiar black color , doubtless painted over , and were so slippery that it was most difficult to keep on one's feet . 
The Hall was only used for audience on very rare occasions , such as the birthday of the Empress Dowager and New Year's Day , and no foreigner has ever entered this building . 
All the usual audiences were held in a smaller building in the Forbidden City . 
After spending some little time in the Audience Hall , we next visited the Emperor's quarters . 
These were much smaller than those occupied by Her Majesty , but were very elaborately furnished . 
There were thirty two rooms , many of which were never used , but all were furnished in the same expensive style . 
There were several other buildings , which were used as waiting rooms for visitors . 
Even Her Majesty said she had never been inside these buildings , as they had been sealed for many years . 
Even the entrance to the enclosure containing these buildings was always closed , and this was the only occasion that any of us ever even passed through . 
They were quite different in appearance from any other buildings in the Palace , being very dirty and evidently of great age . 
We were commanded not to talk about the place at all . 
This was Her Majesty's own idea , in order that she could keep an eye on all of us and could see when we either went out or came in . 
Her Majesty now conducted us to her own Palace , and pausing a little said I will now show you something which will be quite new to you . 
We entered a room adjoining her bedroom , which was connected by a narrow passage some fifteen feet in length . 
On either side the walls were painted and decorated very beautifully . 
I then began to realize that what I had hitherto regarded as solid walls were in reality sliding panels of wood . 
These panels when opened revealed a kind of grotto . 
There were no windows , but in the roof was a skylight . 
At one end of this room or grotto was a large rock , on the top of which was a seat with a yellow cushion , and beside the cushion an incense burner . 
Everything had the appearance of being very old . 
The room contained no furniture of any description . 
Her Majesty told us that during the Ming dynasty these rooms had been used for various purposes , principally by the Emperor when he wished to be alone . 
One of these secret rooms was used by Her Majesty as a treasure room where she kept her valuables . 
During the time of the Boxer trouble , she hid all her valuables here before she fled . 
When she returned and opened this secret room she found everything intact , not one of the vandals who ransacked the Palace even suspecting there was such a place . 
We returned to our veranda , and on looking around for the rooms we had just vacated , could see nothing excepting black stone walls , so well were they hidden . 
One of the principal reasons for Her Majesty's dislike to the Forbidden City was the mysteries which it contained , many of which she did not know of herself . 
She said I don't even talk about these places at all , as people might think that they were used for all kinds of purposes . 
When I got to know them I found that they were highly educated , one of them , Yu Fai , being exceptionally clever . 
She could write poetry and play many musical instruments , and was considered to be the best educated lady in the Empire of China . 
Her knowledge of western countries and their customs surprised me very much she seemed to know a little bit of everything . 
One day I received an invitation to visit them in their Palace . 
This was separated from all the other buildings in the city . 
It was rather a small building , and very simply furnished , with just a few eunuchs and servant girls to wait upon them . 
They said they preferred this simple life , as they never received any visitors and had nobody to please but themselves . 
Yu Fai's room was literally packed with literature of all descriptions . 
She showed me several poems which she had written , but they were of a melancholy character , plainly showing the trend of her thoughts . 
Her Majesty asked him for his opinion of the trouble between Russia and Japan . 
She then asked his opinion as to what would be the result in the event of war who would win . 
He said that it was very hard to say , but that he thought Japan would win . 
Her Majesty then spoke about the condition of things in China . 
She said that in case China were forced into war with another nation , we should be nowhere . 
We had nothing ready , no navy and no trained army , in fact nothing to enable us to protect ourselves . 
Yuan Shih Kai , however , assured her there was no need to anticipate any trouble at present so far as China was concerned . 
After this audience was over , Her Majesty held an audience with the Grand Council . 
She told them what had been said during her interview with Yuan Shih Kai , and of course they all agreed that something should be done . 
Several suggestions were discussed with regard to national defense , etc . 
Her Majesty quite agreed with these remarks and said that it would not be wise to change any Chinese custom for one which was less civilized . 
As usual , nothing definite was decided upon when the audience was over . 
For the next few days nothing was talked of but the war , and many Chinese generals were received in audience by Her Majesty . 
Many foolish suggestions were made by these generals . 
During one of the conversations Her Majesty remarked on the inefficiency of the navy and referred to the fact that we had no trained naval officers . 
Just about the end of the eleventh moon Chang Chih Tung , Viceroy of Wuchang , arrived , and was received in audience . 
Do not be afraid to give your firm opinion , as I want to be prepared for anything which is likely to happen . 
Her Majesty repeated what had been discussed at the previous audiences on this subject and also regarding reform in China . 
Chang Chih Tung replied that we had plenty of time for reform , and that if we were in too great a hurry , we should not accomplish anything at all . 
He suggested that the matter be discussed at length before deciding upon anything definite . 
In his opinion it would be foolish to go to extremes in the matter of reform . 
He said that we should adhere strictly to our own mode of living and not abandon the traditions of our ancestors . 
In other words , he simply advised the adoption of western civilization where it was an improvement on our own , and nothing more . 
Her Majesty was delighted with the interview , for Chang Chih Tung's opinions coincided exactly with her own . 
During the whole of these audiences the Emperor , although present each time , never opened his lips to say a word , but sat listening all the time . 
Of the many religious ceremonies in connection with the Buddhist religion the La pachow was the most important . 
This was held on the th day of the twelfth moon each year . 
This day was therefore set apart as an anniversary to commemorate the event . 
It was not at all pleasant to eat , being absolutely tasteless . 
CHAPTER EIGHTEEN THE NEW YEAR FESTIVALS WE now reached the time set apart for cleaning the Palace in preparation for the New Year festivals . 
Everything had to be taken down and thoroughly overhauled , and all the images , pictures , furniture and everything else were subjected to a thorough scrubbing . 
Her Majesty again consulted her book in order to choose a lucky day on which to commence these operations , finally choosing the twelfth day as being most favorable . 
As we had all received our orders previously , we commenced early on the morning of the twelfth . 
Several of the Court ladies were told off to take down and clean the images of Buddha and prepare new curtains for them . 
The rest of the cleaning was done by the eunuchs . 
I asked Her Majesty whether I was to clean her jewelry , but she answered that as nobody but herself ever wore it , it didn't need cleaning . 
After everything had been cleaned to Her Majesty's satisfaction , she prepared a list of names of the people she desired to attend the ceremony of Tzu Sui . 
The guests were invited about a fortnight ahead , so as to give them plenty of time to get ready . 
Her Majesty also ordered new winter clothing for the Court ladies . 
The only difference between these new garments and those we were then . 
wearing was that they were trimmed with the fur of the silver fox instead of the gray squirrel . 
The next thing was to prepare cakes , which were to be placed before the Buddhas and ancestors , during the New Year . 
It was necessary that Her Majesty should make the first one herself . 
The first cake turned out fine and we all congratulated Her Majesty , who was evidently much pleased herself at the result . 
Then she ordered each of the Court ladies to make one , which we did , with disastrous results , not one turning out as it should . 
Certainly I could make them just as well as she , if not better , but it would not be good policy . 
After we had all finished making our cakes , the eunuchs were ordered to make the rest , and needless to say they were perfect in every way . 
The next thing was to prepare small plates of dates and fresh fruits of every kind . 
These were decorated with evergreens , etc . 
, and placed before the images of Buddha . 
Then we prepared glass dishes of candy , which were to be offered to the God of the Kitchen . 
The idea of offering him these sweets was in order that they should stick to his mouth and prevent him from telling too much . 
When these candies were prepared , we all adjourned to the kitchen and placed the offering on a table specially placed for the purpose . 
Her Majesty took up a large brush and commenced to write . 
On some of these sheets she wrote the character Shou and on others Fu . 
By and bye , when she began to feel tired , she would get either one of the Court ladies or one of the official writers to finish them for her . 
When finished , they were distributed to the guests and different officials , the ones Her Majesty had written herself being reserved for her special favorites . 
These were given out a few days before the New Year . 
Her Majesty received New Year presents from all the Viceroys and principal officials . 
These presents consisted of small pieces of furniture , curios , jewelry , silks , in fact everything even clothing . 
It was really a magnificent thing , and must have cost a fortune . 
The only drawback was its weight it was too heavy to wear comfortably . 
Another costly present was received from the Viceroy of Canton , and consisted of four bags of pearls , each bag containing several thousands . 
They were all perfect in shape and color , and would have brought fabulous prices in Europe or America . 
However , Her Majesty had so many jewels , especially pearls , that she hardly paid any attention to them beyond remarking that they were very nice . 
The Young Empress and the Court ladies were also expected to give presents to Her Majesty each New Year . 
These were for the most part articles that we had made ourselves , such as shoes , handkerchiefs , collars , bags , etc . 
My mother , my sister and myself made presents of mirrors , perfumes , soaps and similar toilet accessories which we had brought with us from Paris . 
These Her Majesty appreciated very much she was very vain . 
The eunuchs and servant girls gave fancy cakes and other food stuffs . 
The presents were so numerous that they filled several rooms , but we were not allowed to remove them until Her Majesty gave orders to do so . 
The Court ladies also exchanged presents among themselves , which often led to confusion and amusement . 
On mentioning the fact , this lady turned and said Well , that is rather funny I was just wondering what had made you return the shoes I sent you . 
In order to settle the matter , we threw them all into a heap and divided them as evenly as possible , everybody being satisfied with the result . 
About a week before New Year's day all audiences ceased and the seals were put away until after the holidays . 
During this time no business was transacted by Her Majesty . 
Everything was much more comfortable and we could see that Her Majesty also appreciated the change from bustle to quietness . 
We had nothing whatever to do but to take things easy until the last day of the year . 
Early on the morning of the thirtieth Her Majesty went to worship before the Buddhas and Ancestral Tablets . 
After this ceremony was finished , the guests began to arrive , until by midday , all the guests , numbering about fifty , were present . 
, and Prince Ching's family . 
All these ladies were frequent visitors to the Court . 
Next day many other Princesses , not of the Imperial family , but whose titles were honorary titles bestowed by previous rulers , came . 
Next , the daughters of the high Manchu officials and many other people whom I had never seen before . 
By midday all the guests had arrived , and , after being presented to Her Majesty , were taken to their different apartments and told to rest a while . 
At two o'clock in the afternoon everybody assembled in the Audience Hall , lined up according to their different ranks and , led by the Young Empress , kowtowed to Her Majesty . 
This was the ceremony Tzu Sui already referred to , and was simply a last goodbye to Her Majesty before the New Year set in . 
When it was all over , Her Majesty gave each of us a small purse made of red satin embroidered with gold , containing a sum of money . 
This is to enable each one to commence the New Year with a kind of reserve fund for a rainy day , when they would have this money to fall back upon . 
It is an old Manchu custom and is still kept up . 
The evening was spent in music and enjoyment , and was carried on right through the night , none of us going to bed . 
At Her Majesty's suggestion we commenced gambling with dice , Her Majesty providing each of us with money , sometimes as much as . 
She told us to be serious about it , and to try and win , but of course we took good care not to win from Her Majesty . 
We knew that she wanted to see some fun , so we fought for it as hard as we could . 
At midnight the eunuchs brought into the room a large brass brazier containing live charcoal . 
Her Majesty pulled a leaf from a large evergreen tree , which had been placed there for the purpose , and threw it into the fire . 
We each followed her example , adding large pieces of resin , which perfumed the whole atmosphere . 
This ceremony was supposed to bring good luck during the coming year . 
The next item was making cakes or pies for New Year's day . 
On the first of the New Year , nobody is allowed to eat rice , these cakes taking its place . 
They were made of flour paste , with minced meat inside . 
While some of us were preparing these cakes , others were peeling lotus seeds for Her Majesty's breakfast . 
It was now well on into the morning hours and Her Majesty said that she was tired and would go and rest a while . 
She was not going to sleep , however , so we could carry on our noise as much as we liked . 
This we did for some time , and on visiting Her Majesty's bedroom , we found that she was fast asleep . 
We then all repaired to our various rooms and commenced to make ourselves tidy for the day . 
, olives , lotus seeds . 
She suitably acknowledged these gifts and wished us all good luck in return . 
She inquired whether we had been to bed and , on learning that we had been up all night , she said that was right . 
We waited on her until she had finished her toilet and then wished her a Happy New Year . 
We then proceeded to pay our respects to the Emperor and to the Young Empress . 
There was nothing further to be done in the way of ceremonies , and we therefore all accompanied Her Majesty to the theatre . 
The performance took place on a stage erected in the courtyard , and Her Majesty closed in one part of her veranda for the use of the guests and Court ladies . 
During the performance I began to feel very drowsy , and eventually fell fast asleep leaning against one of the pillars . 
On approaching Her Majesty , she asked me how I had enjoyed the candy , and told me not to sleep , but to have a good time like the rest . 
I never saw Her Majesty in better humor . 
She played with us just like a young girl , and one could hardly recognize in her the severe Empress Dowager we knew her to be . 
The guests also all seemed to be enjoying themselves very much . 
In the evening , after the theatrical performance was over , Her Majesty ordered the eunuchs to bring in their instruments and give us some music . 
She herself sang several songs , and we all sang at intervals . 
Then Her Majesty ordered the eunuchs to sing . 
Some were trained singers , and sang very nicely , but others could not sing at all and caused quite a lot of amusement by their efforts to please Her Majesty . 
The Emperor appeared to be the only one present who was not having a good time he never smiled once . 
On meeting him outside , I asked him why he looked so sad , but he only answered A Happy New Year in English , smiled once , and walked away . 
Her Majesty rose very early next morning and proceeded to the Audience Hall to worship the God of Wealth . 
We all accompanied her and took part in the ceremony . 
During the next few days we did nothing but gamble and scramble for Her Majesty's winnings . 
This was all very nice in its way , until one day one of the Court ladies began to cry , and accused me of stepping on her toes in the scramble . 
The tenth of the first moon was the birthday of the Young Empress , and we asked Her Majesty whether we would be allowed to give presents . 
She gave us permission to give whatever presents we might wish to . 
In such a case Her Majesty would tell us that she would keep it , and to give the Young Empress something else . 
The celebration was very similar to that of the Emperor's birthday , but not on such an elaborate scale . 
We presented the Ru Yee to the Young Empress and kowtowed to her . 
She always was very polite to us under all circumstances . 
On this day , as on the Emperor's birthday , the Emperor , Young Empress and Secondary wife dined together . 
These were the only two occasions when they did so , always dining separately at other times . 
Her Majesty sent two of her Court ladies to wait upon the Empress , I myself being one of them . 
I was very pleased , as I wanted to see for myself how they conducted themselves when together . 
I went into the Young Empress' room and informed her that Her Majesty had ordered us to wait upon them , to which she simply answered Very well . 
So we went to the dining room and set the table , placing the chairs into position . 
The meal was much different from what I expected . 
A very pretty ceremony was gone through at the commencement of the meal . 
The Emperor and Young Empress seated themselves , and the Secondary wife filled their cups with wine and presented it to them in turn as a sign of respect , the Emperor first . 
When the meal was over we returned to Her Majesty's apartment and told her that everything had passed off nicely . 
We knew very well that we had been sent simply to act as spies , but we had nothing interesting to tell Her Majesty . 
She asked if the Emperor had been very serious and we answered Yes . 
The New Year celebrations terminated with the Festival of Lanterns on the fifteenth day of the first moon . 
These lanterns were of different shapes , representing animals , flowers , fruits , etc . 
They were made of white gauze , painted in different colors . 
One lantern representing a dragon about fifteen feet long was fastened to ten poles , and ten eunuchs were required to hold it in position . 
In front of this dragon a eunuch was holding a lantern representing a large pearl , which the dragon was supposed to devour . 
This ceremony was gone through to the accompaniment of music . 
After the lanterns came a firework display . 
These fireworks represented different scenes in the history of China , grape vines , wisteria blossoms , and many other flowers . 
It was a very imposing sight . 
Portable wooden houses had been placed near the fireworks from which Her Majesty and the rest of the Court could see them without being out in the cold air . 
This display lasted for several hours without a stop , and thousands of firecrackers were set off during the time . 
Her Majesty seemed to enjoy the noise very much . 
Altogether it was a good finish to the celebrations and we all enjoyed it very much . 
The next morning all the guests departed from the Palace and we re commenced our everyday life . 
As usual after the guests had departed Her Majesty began to criticise their mode of dressing , their ignorance of Court etiquette , etc . 
, but added that she was rather glad , as she didn't want them to know anything about Court life . 
As Spring soon arrived it was time for the farmers to commence sowing seed for the rice crop , and of course there was another ceremony . 
The Emperor visited the Temple of Agriculture where he prayed for a good harvest . 
Then he proceeded to a small plot of ground situated in the temple and after turning the earth over with a hand plow he sowed the first seeds of the season . 
This was to show the farmers that their labors were not despised and that even the Emperor was not ashamed to engage in this work . 
Anybody could attend this ceremony , it being quite a public affair , and many farmers were present . 
About this same time the Young Empress went to see the silkworms and watch for the eggs to be hatched . 
As soon as they were out , the Young Empress gathered mulberry leaves for the worms to feed upon and watched them until they were big enough to commence spinning . 
Each day a fresh supply of leaves were gathered and they were fed four or five times daily . 
Several of the Court ladies were told off to feed the worms during the night and see that they did not escape . 
These silkworms grow very rapidly and we could see the difference each day . 
Of course when they became full grown they required more food and we were kept busy constantly feeding them . 
The Young Empress was able to tell by holding them up to the light when they were ready to spin . 
If they were transparent then they were ready , and were placed on paper and left there . 
When spinning the silkworm does not eat , therefore all we had to do was to watch that they did not get away . 
After spinning for four or five days their supply of silk becomes exhausted and they shrivel up and apparently die . 
These apparently dead worms were collected by the Young Empress and placed in a box where they were kept until they developed into moths . 
They were then placed on thick paper and left there to lay their eggs . 
If left to themselves , the silkworms when ready for spinning will spin the silk around their bodies until they are completely covered up , gradually forming a cocoon . 
In order to determine when they have finished spinning it was customary to take the cocoon and rattle it near the ear . 
If the worm was exhausted you could plainly hear the body rattle inside the cocoon . 
The cocoon is then placed in boiling water until it becomes soft . 
This , of course , kills the worm . 
In order to separate the silk a needle is used to pick up the end of the thread which is then wound on to a spool and is ready for weaving . 
When the silk had all been separated we took it to Her Majesty for inspection and approval . 
All this was done with the same object as the Emperor sowing the seeds , viz . 
to set the people a good example and to encourage them in their work . 
CHAPTER NINETEEN THE SEA PALACE THIS year we had a very hot spring and Her Majesty was desirous of getting back again to the Sea Palace . 
However , as war had already been declared between Russia and Japan it was thought best to remain in the Forbidden City until things were more settled . 
Things were very monotonous about this time and nothing particular occurred until the beginning of the second moon . 
So on the sixth day of the second moon we moved back to the Sea Palace . 
Everything looked fresh and green and many of the trees had commenced to blossom . 
She was much brighter now , but said that she would be happier still to get to the Summer Palace . 
Miss Carl was summoned to the Palace , and Her Majesty visited her and asked to see the portrait . 
She accordingly sat for two mornings , but on the third morning she made an excuse saying that she was not feeling well . 
She absolutely refused to sit again whether it was finished or not , saying that she would have nothing more to do with the portrait . 
I myself sat for the remainder of the portrait , viz . 
for Her Majesty's dress , jewels , etc . 
, and so by degrees the portrait was completed . 
When Her Majesty learned that the portrait was nearing completion she was very much pleased , and I thought it a good opportunity to again broach the subject of payment . 
Her Majesty asked me whether I really thought it necessary to pay cash for the portrait and how much . 
Her Majesty seemed very much surprised to learn this , and asked why Miss Carl's brother did not support her himself . 
I told Her Majesty that Miss Carl did not desire him to provide for her , besides which he was married and had a family to support . 
Her Majesty gave it as her opinion that this was a funny kind of civilization . 
In China when the parents were dead it was the duty of the sons to provide for their unmarried sisters until such time as they married . 
She also said that if Chinese ladies were to work for their living it would only set people talking about them . 
However , she promised to speak with Her Ministers about paying Miss Carl , and I felt somewhat relieved as there seemed to be a probability of something satisfactory being arranged after all . 
The twelfth day of the second moon was the anniversary of another interesting ceremony , viz . 
the birthday of the flowers and trees . 
After the morning audience we all went into the Palace grounds , where the eunuchs were waiting with huge rolls of red silk . 
These we all commenced to cut into narrow strips about two inches wide and three feet long . 
This took up nearly the entire morning and it made a very pretty picture , with the bright costumes of the Court ladies , green trees and beautiful flowers . 
We then went to a theatrical performance . 
This represented all the tree fairies and flower fairies celebrating their birthday . 
The Chinese believe that all the trees and flowers have their own particular fairies , the tree fairies being men and the flower fairies being women . 
The costumes were very pretty and were chosen to blend with the green trees and flowers which were on the stage . 
Whenever this fairy moved about the petals would move just as though wafted by the breeze , like a natural flower . 
Several other costumes representing different flowers were made in the same manner . 
The scene was a woodland dell , surrounded with huge rocks perforated with caves , out of which came innumerable small fairies bearing decanters of wine . 
These small fairies represented the smaller flowers , daisies , pomegranate blossoms , etc . 
The result can be better imagined than described . 
All the fairies gathered together and drank the wine , after which they commenced to sing , accompanied by stringed instruments , played very softly . 
The final scene was a very fitting ending to the performance . 
This completed the celebration and we all retired to our rooms . 
, I completed my first year at Court . 
I had quite forgotten this fact until Her Majesty reminded me of it . 
She asked whether I was comfortable and happy where I was or did I long to return to Paris . 
Her Majesty smiled and said she was afraid that sooner or later I would tire of the life in the Palace and fly away again across the ocean . 
She said that the only way to make sure of me was to marry me off . 
I am still on the lookout for a suitable husband for you . 
She made some remark about my being stubborn and said that I should probably change my mind before long . 
The th of April , , was chosen by Her Majesty as the best time , and Miss Carl was duly notified . 
However , Her Majesty said that it must be finished by four o'clock on the th day of April , and therefore there was nothing further to be said . 
About a week before the time fixed for completion Her Majesty paid a visit to the studio to finally inspect the picture . 
She seemed very much pleased with it , but still objected to her face being painted dark on one side and light on the other . 
As I have said before , I had explained that this was the shading , but Her Majesty insisted on my telling Miss Carl to make both sides of her face alike . 
Fancy putting her own name on my picture . 
This will naturally convey the impression that it is a portrait of Miss Carl , and not a portrait of myself at all . 
So Her Majesty said she supposed it was all right , and would have to remain , but she looked anything but satisfied with it . 
This was quite a private audience and Her Majesty received them in one of the small Audience Halls . 
After the usual greetings Her Majesty ordered us to conduct the ladies to the studio , which we did , Her Majesty bidding them good bye and remaining in her own apartments . 
The Young Empress in accordance with instructions from Her Majesty , accompanied us to the studio , and acted as hostess . 
Everybody expressed great admiration for the portrait and it was voted a marvellous likeness . 
After inspecting the picture we all adjourned for refreshments . 
The Young Empress sat at the head of the table and asked me to sit next to her . 
Shortly after everybody was seated a eunuch came and asked the Young Empress to inform these ladies that the Emperor was slightly indisposed and was unable to be present . 
I interpreted this , and everybody appeared satisfied . 
As a matter of fact the Emperor was quite well , but we had forgotten all about him . 
And so the guests departed without seeing him on this occasion . 
On reporting everything to Her Majesty as usual , she asked what they thought of the portrait , and we told her that they had admired it very much . 
Her Majesty said Of course they did , it was painted by a foreign artist . 
She didn't appear to be very much interested and was quite cross about something , which caused me great disappointment after all the trouble Miss Carl had taken to finish the portrait . 
I told her that I explained to them that the Emperor was not well and they evidently thought nothing further of his absence . 
This photograph turned out so well that Her Majesty said it was better than the portrait itself . 
Her Majesty noticed that I was rather quiet , and asked me the cause . 
She said I suppose you are beginning to miss your friend , the lady artist . 
So I explained to Her Majesty that I always did regret losing old friends but that I would get used to the change very soon . 
I assured her that the lady artist never mentioned the subject to me . 
Her Majesty said I hate to mention about that affair and I would not like to have foreigners ask my people questions on that subject . 
Do you know , I have often thought that I am the most clever woman that ever lived and others cannot compare with me . 
My life is not finished yet and no one knows what is going to happen in the future . 
I may surprise the foreigners some day with something extraordinary and do something quite contrary to anything I have yet done . 
England is one of great powers of the world , but this has not been brought about by Queen Victoria's absolute rule . 
I have , , people , all dependent on my judgment . 
Although I have the Grand Council to consult with , they only look after the different appointments , but anything of an important nature I must decide myself . 
What does the Emperor know ? I have been very successful so far , but I never dreamt that the Boxer movement would end with such serious results for China . 
That is the only mistake I have made in my life . 
He said , This cross is not visible to you , but I can identify a Christian by finding a cross on the head . 
Prince Tuan told me that he had witnessed this himself . 
A Boxer shot another with a revolver and the bullet hit him , but did not harm him in the least . 
Then Prince Tuan suggested that I hand these two eunuchs supposed to be Christians to the Boxer leader , which I did . 
I heard afterwards that these two eunuchs were beheaded right in the country somewhere near here . 
After that Prince Tuan also suggested that we had better let the chief Boxer come every day and teach the eunuchs their belief that nearly all of Peking was studying with the Boxers . 
The next day I was very much surprised to see all my eunuchs dressed as Boxers . 
They wore red jackets , red turbans and yellow trousers . 
I was sorry to see all my attendants discard their official robes and wear a funny costume like that . 
Duke Lan presented me with a suit of Boxer clothes . 
At that time Yung Lu , who was the head of the Grand Council , was ill and asked leave of absence for a month . 
I was puzzled to know why he should give up the balance of his leave . 
However , I was very anxious to see him , as I wished to consult him about this chief Boxer . 
Yung Lu looked grieved when he learned what had taken place at the Palace , and said that these Boxers were nothing but revolutionaries and agitators . 
They were trying to get the people to help them to kill the foreigners , but he was very much afraid the result would be against the Government . 
I told him that probably he was right , and asked him what should be done . 
When I heard this I was very much worried and anticipated serious trouble , so I sent for Yung Lu at once and kept Prince Tuan with me . 
Yung Lu came , looking very much worried , and he was more so after I had told him what the Boxers were going to do . 
When Prince Tuan heard this he was very angry and told Yung Lu that if such an Edict was issued , the Boxers would come to the Court and kill everybody . 
When Prince Tuan told me this , I thought I had better leave everything to him . 
After he left the Palace , Yung Lu said that Prince Tuan was absolutely crazy and that he was sure these Boxers would be the cause of a great deal of trouble . 
They forgot how very strong these foreign countries are , and that if the foreigners in China were all killed , thousands would come to avenge their death . 
I was very angry and refused to issue this Edict . 
After that you know what happened . 
He issued these Edicts unknown to me and was responsible for a great many deaths . 
He found that he could not carry his plans through and heard that the foreign troops were not very far from Peking . 
He was so frightened that he made us all leave Peking . 
As she finished saying this , she started to cry , and I told her that I felt very sorry for her . 
She said You need not feel sorry for me for what I have gone through but you must feel sorry that my fair name is ruined . 
That is the only mistake I have made in my whole life and it was done in a moment of weakness . 
I have regretted many , many times that I had such confidence in , and believed that wicked Prince Tuan he was responsible for everything . 
By the end of the third moon Her Majesty had had enough of the Sea Palace and the Court moved into the Summer Palace . 
This time we travelled by boat as it was very beautiful weather . 
On reaching the water gates of the Palace we found everything just lovely and the peach blossoms were in full bloom . 
Her Majesty plainly showed how glad she was to be back once more and for the time being seemed to have forgotten everything else , even the war . 
CHAPTER TWENTY CONCLUSION MY second year at the Palace was very much the same as the first . 
We celebrated each anniversary and festival in the same way as before the usual audience was held each morning by Her Majesty , after which the day was given up to enjoyment . 
Amongst other things Her Majesty took great interest in her vegetable gardens , and superintended the planting of the different seeds . 
When vegetables were ready for pulling , from time to time , all the Court ladies were supplied with a kind of small pruning fork and gathered in the crop . 
Her Majesty seemed to enjoy seeing us work in the fields , and when the fit seized her she would come along and help . 
Another hobby of Her Majesty's was the rearing of chickens , and a certain number of birds were allotted to each of the Court ladies . 
We were supposed to look after these ourselves and the eggs had to be taken to Her Majesty every morning . 
Her Majesty was very particular not to encourage untidyness or extravagance among the Court ladies . 
On one occasion she told me to open a parcel which was lying in her room . 
I was about to cut the string when Her Majesty stopped me and told me to untie it . 
This I managed to do after a lot of trouble , and opened the parcel . 
Her Majesty next made me fold the paper neatly and place it in a drawer along with the string so that I would know where to find it should it be wanted again . 
Thus under Her Majesty's tuition we learned to be careful and tidy against such time as we might be called upon to look after homes of our own . 
About this time my father began to show signs of breaking down and asked for permission to withdraw from public life . 
However , Her Majesty would not hear of this and decided to give him another six months vacation instead . 
These doctors therefore attended him for some time , prescribing all kinds of different concoctions daily . 
After a while he seemed to pick up a little but was still unable to get about on account of having chronic rheumatism . 
So we decided to remain in Peking unless my father showed signs of getting worse . 
This year very few guests attended the Garden Party but among those who did come were several strangers . 
About half a dozen ladies from the Japanese Legation came with Madame Uchida , wife of the Japanese Minister . 
Her Majesty was always very pleased to see this lady whom she very much admired on account of her extreme politeness . 
After the usual presentation we conducted the ladies to luncheon , showed them over the Palace grounds , after which we wished them good bye and they took their leave . 
We reported everything to Her Majesty , and as usual were asked many questions . 
dressed in a heavy tweed travelling costume , having enormous pockets , into which she thrust her hands as though it were extremely cold . 
She wore a cap of the same material . 
Her Majesty asked if I had noticed this lady with the clothes made out of rice bags , and wasn't it rather unusual to be presented at Court in such a dress . 
Her Majesty wanted to know who she was and where she came from . 
I replied that she certainly did not belong to any of the Legations as I was acquainted with everybody there . 
was quite certain that it was not the thing to appear at a European Court in such a costume . 
These foreigners seem to have the idea that the Chinese are ignorant and that therefore they need not be so particular as in European Society . 
In that way I can also keep the missionary element out , as well as other undesirables . 
I like to meet any distinguished foreigners who may be visiting in China , but I do not want any common people at my Court . 
I suggested that the Japanese custom could be followed , viz . 
to issue proper invitation cards , stipulating at the foot the dress to be worn on each particular occasion . 
Her Majesty thought this would meet the case and it was decided to introduce a similar rule in China . 
Whenever the weather permitted , Her Majesty would pass quite a lot of her time in the open air watching the eunuchs at work in the gardens . 
During the early Spring the lotus plants were transplanted and she would take keen interest in this work . 
All the old roots had to be cut away and the new bulbs planted in fresh soil . 
it was necessary for the eunuchs to wade into the water sometimes up to their waists in order to weed out the old plants and set the young ones . 
and superintend the eunuchs at their work , suggesting from time to time as to how the bulbs were to be planted . 
It was during the Spring that Yuan Shih Kai paid another visit to the Palace , and among other subjects discussed was the Russo Japan war . 
He told Her Majesty that it was developing into a very serious affair and that he feared China would be the principal sufferer in the long run . 
had arrived at Singapore from Batavia , I thought it might interest Her Majesty and so translated it along with the rest . 
Her Majesty immediately became very much excited which made me feel frightened as I did not know what could be the matter . 
She seemed relieved , however , to know where he was , and seemed anxious to hear what he was doing . 
She suddenly became very angry again and asked why it was that the foreign governments offered protection to Chinese political agitators and criminals . 
Her Majesty explained that this had been purely an accident and was not deliberately destroyed by the foreign troops . 
She therefore commanded the Board of Works to prepare a model of the new building in accordance with her own ideas , and submit it for her approval . 
This model was accordingly prepared and submitted to Her Majesty . 
It was only a small wooden model but was complete in every detail , even to the pattern of the windows and the carving on the ceilings and panels . 
However , I never knew anything to quite come up to Her Majesty's ideas , and this was no exception . 
She criticised the model from every standpoint , ordering this room to be enlarged and that room to be made smaller this window to be moved to another place , etc . 
So the model went back for reconstruction . 
When it was again brought for Her Majesty's inspection everybody agreed that it was an improvement on the first one , and even Her Majesty expressed great satisfaction . 
The next thing was to find a name for the new building and after serious and mature consideration it was decided to name it Hai Yen Tang . 
Building operations were commenced immediately and Her Majesty took great interest in the progress of the work . 
When everything had been selected to Her Majesty's satisfaction , my mother asked permission to defray the expense herself and make a present of this furniture . 
This Her Majesty agreed to and the order was accordingly placed with a well known Paris firm from whom we had purchased furniture when in France . 
By the time the building was completed the furniture had arrived , and it was quickly installed . 
Her Majesty went to inspect it and , of course , had to find fault as usual . 
However , the thing was finished and it was no use finding fault now , as it could not be changed . 
During the Summer months I had plenty of leisure time and devoted about an hour each day to helping the Emperor with his English . 
He was a most intelligent man with a wonderful memory and learned very quickly . 
His pronunciation , however , was not good . 
In a very short time he was able to read short stories out of an ordinary school reader and could write from dictation fairly well . 
His handwriting was exceptionally fine , while in copying old English and ornamental characters , he was an expert . 
After two lessons she lost patience , and did not mention the matter again . 
I told him that many things had been accomplished since my arrival at Court , and mentioned the new Audience Hall as an instance . 
He didn't appear to think that anything worth talking about , and advised me to give up the matter altogether . 
He said when the proper time arrived if it ever did arrive then I might be of use , but expressed grave doubts on the subject . 
He also enquired about my father and I told him that unless his health improved very soon it would be necessary for us to leave the Court for a while at any rate . 
He replied that although he should very much regret such a necessity , he really believed that it would be for the best . 
This made Her Majesty very angry , and she told me that she considered me very ungrateful after all she had done for me . 
I didn't reply , and as her Majesty did not say anything more at the time , I tried to forget about it . 
However , on my next visit home , I told my father all about it , and as before he was strongly opposed to such a marriage . 
I , therefore , took the first opportunity of speaking to him . 
I never heard anything further about my marriage , either from Her Majesty or Li Lien Ying , and therefore concluded that he had been able to arrange the matter satisfactorily . 
The Summer passed without anything further important occurring . 
These were afterwards made into chairs , tables and other useful articles for Her Majesty's teahouse . 
The younger eunuchs also took part in these lessons and some of their answers to Her Majesty's questions were very amusing . 
If Her Majesty were in a good humor she would laugh with the rest of us , but sometimes she would order them to be punished for their ignorance and stupidity . 
However , as they were quite accustomed to being punished they did not seem to mind very much and forgot all about it the next minute . 
The only difference , therefore , between this birthday and former ones was that Her Majesty gave presents to the Court , in addition to receiving them . 
These included the bestowal of titles , promotions and increases in salary . 
Among the titles conferred by Her Majesty , my sister and myself received the title of Chun Chu Hsien . 
These titles , however , were confined to members of the Court , and were granted specially by the Empress Dowager . 
Similar promotions to outside officials were always conferred by the Emperor . 
It was proposed to hold the celebrations in the Forbidden City as it was more suited for such an important event . 
This entailed a lot of unnecessary work as it necessitated decorating both the Summer Palace and the Forbidden City . 
Everything was hurry and bustle . 
To add to this , it snowed very heavily during the few days previous to the tenth . 
Her Majesty was in a very good mood . 
She was very fond of being out in the snow and expressed a wish to have some photographs taken of herself on the hillside . 
So my brother was commanded to bring his camera , and took several very good pictures of Her Majesty . 
On the seventh day the Court moved into the Forbidden City and the celebrations commenced . 
The decorations were beautiful the Courtyards being covered with glass roofs to keep out the snow . 
The theatres were in full swing each day . 
The actual ceremony , which took place on the tenth , did not differ in any respect from previous ones . 
Everything passed off smoothly , and the Court removed again into the Sea Palace . 
While at the Sea Palace we received news that my father's condition was becoming serious , and he again tendered his resignation to Her Majesty . 
She sent her eunuchs to find out exactly what the matter was , and on learning that he was really very ill , accepted his resignation . 
Her Majesty agreed that it might be better for him to go to Shanghai and see if the foreign physicians could do him any good . 
She said she supposed it would be necessary for my mother to accompany him to Shanghai , but did not consider it serious enough to send my sister and myself along also . 
We did not get away until the middle of the eleventh moon , as Her Majesty insisted on making clothes for us and other preparations for our journey . 
Of course we could do nothing but await Her Majesty's pleasure . 
When everything was ready Her Majesty referred to her book to choose a suitable day for our departure , and fixed on the thirteenth as being the best . 
We therefore left the Palace for our own house on the twelfth . 
We kowtowed and said good bye to Her Majesty , thanking her for her many kindnesses during our stay with her . 
Everybody cried , even Her Majesty . 
We then went to say good bye to the Emperor and Young Empress . 
The Emperor simply shook hands and wished us Good Luck in English . 
Everybody appeared sorry to see us leave . 
After standing about for a long time Her Majesty said it was no use wasting any more time and that we had better start . 
At the gate the head eunuch bade us good bye and we entered our carriage and drove to my father's house , our own eunuchs accompanying us to the door . 
We found everything prepared for our journey , and early the next morning we took train to Tientsin where we just managed to catch the last steamer of the season leaving for Shanghai . 
As it was , the water was so shallow that we ran aground on the Taku bar . 
On arrival in Shanghai my father immediately consulted his physician who examined him and prescribed medicine . 
The trip itself seemed to have done him a lot of good . 
Everything seemed different to what I had been accustomed to in Peking and I simply longed for the time when I should be able to return to Her Majesty . 
About two weeks after our arrival , Her Majesty sent a special messenger down to Shanghai to see how we were getting along . 
He brought us many beautiful presents and also a lot of medicine for my father . 
We were very glad to see him . 
He informed us that we were missed very much at Court and advised us to return as soon as it was possible for us to do so . 
I therefore returned early in the New Year . 
The river was frozen and I had to travel by boat to Chinwantao , from thence by rail to Peking . 
It was a most miserable journey and I was very glad when it was over . 
Her Majesty had sent my eunuchs to the station to meet me and I at once proceeded to the Palace . 
On meeting Her Majesty we both cried again by way of expressing our happiness . 
I informed her that my father was progressing favorably and that I hoped to be able to remain with her permanently . 
I resumed my previous duties , but this time I had neither my sister for a companion nor my mother to chat with and everything appeared changed . 
Her Majesty was just the same , however , and treated me most kindly . 
Still , I was not comfortable , and heartily wished myself back again in Shanghai . 
, when I received a telegram summoning me to Shanghai as my father had become worse , and was in a critical condition and wished to see me . 
I showed Her Majesty the telegram and waited for her decision . 
I again wished everybody good bye , fully expecting to return very soon but this was not to be . 
I found my father in a very dangerous condition , and after a lingering illness , he died on the th of December , . 
Of course we went into mourning for one hundred days which in itself prevented my returning to the Court . 
At heart I was a foreigner , educated in a foreign country , and , having already met my husband the matter was soon settled and I became an American citizen . 
