The Uncommercial Traveller by Charles Dickens Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
uk THE UNCOMMERCIAL TRAVELLER CHAPTER I HIS GENERAL LINE OF BUSINESS Allow me to introduce myself first negatively . 
No landlord is my friend and brother , no chambermaid loves me , no waiter worships me , no boots admires and envies me . 
When I go upon my journeys , I am not usually rated at a low figure in the bill when I come home from my journeys , I never get any commission . 
I know nothing about prices , and should have no idea , if I were put to it , how to wheedle a man into ordering something he doesn't want . 
And yet proceeding now , to introduce myself positively I am both a town traveller and a country traveller , and am always on the road . 
Figuratively speaking , I travel for the great house of Human Interest Brothers , and have rather a large connection in the fancy goods way . 
These are my chief credentials as the Uncommercial Traveller . 
CHAPTER II THE SHIPWRECK Never had I seen a year going out , or going on , under quieter circumstances . 
Eighteen hundred and fifty nine had but another day to live , and truly its end was Peace on that sea shore that morning . 
Yet , I had never seen it in my life , a minute before , and had traversed two hundred miles to get at it . 
The divers were down then , and busy . 
They were 'lifting' to day the gold found yesterday some five and twenty thousand pounds . 
Of three hundred and fifty thousand pounds' worth of gold , three hundred thousand pounds' worth , in round numbers , was at that time recovered . 
The great bulk of the remainder was surely and steadily coming up . 
As it was brought up , it went aboard the Tug steamer , where good account was taken of it . 
It had been remarked of such bodies come ashore , too , as had been seen by scientific men , that they had been stunned to death , and not suffocated . 
Observation , both of the internal change that had been wrought in them , and of their external expression , showed death to have been thus merciful and easy . 
The report was brought , while I was holding such discourse on the beach , that no more bodies had come ashore since last night . 
It began to be very doubtful whether many more would be thrown up , until the north east winds of the early spring set in . 
It was the kind and wholesome face I have made mention of as being then beside me , that I had purposed to myself to see , when I left home for Wales . 
, in all my life . 
to suppose that the peasantry had shown any superstitious avoidance of the drowned on the whole , they had done very well , and had assisted readily . 
were necessary , and three or four men , and , all things considered , it was not a great price . 
It is a little church of great antiquity there is reason to believe that some church has occupied the spot , these thousand years or more . 
The eye , with little or no aid from the imagination , could yet see how the bodies had been turned , and where the head had been and where the feet . 
Forty four shipwrecked men and women lay here at one time , awaiting burial . 
'My dearest brother had bright grey eyes and a pleasant smile , one sister wrote . 
It grew to be the business of their lives to do so . 
Any new arrival of a bereaved woman would stimulate their pity to compare the description brought , with the dread realities . 
Sometimes , they would go back able to say , 'I have found him , or , 'I think she lies there . 
Perhaps , the mourner , unable to bear the sight of all that lay in the church , would be led in blindfold . 
Many of the men were bringing over parrots , and had receipts upon them for the price of the birds others had bills of exchange in their pockets , or in belts . 
In that lonely place , it had not been easy to obtain even such common commodities in towns , as ordinary disinfectants . 
From the church , we passed out into the churchyard . 
Here , there lay , at that time , one hundred and forty five bodies , that had come ashore from the wreck . 
He had buried them , when not identified , in graves containing four each . 
He had numbered each body in a register describing it , and had placed a corresponding number on each coffin , and over each grave . 
Identified bodies he had buried singly , in private graves , in another part of the church yard . 
In all such cases he had performed the funeral service a second time , and the ladies of his house had attended . 
There had been no offence in the poor ashes when they were brought again to the light of day the beneficent Earth had already absorbed it . 
The drowned were buried in their clothes . 
To supply the great sudden demand for coffins , he had got all the neighbouring people handy at tools , to work the livelong day , and Sunday likewise . 
Similarly , one of the graves for four was lying open and ready , here , in the churchyard . 
The cheerful earnestness of this good Christian minister was as consolatory , as the circumstances out of which it shone were sad . 
I never have seen anything more delightfully genuine than the calm dismissal by himself and his household of all they had undergone , as a simple duty that was quietly done and ended . 
He was there , with his neatly arranged papers , and made no more account of his trouble than anybody else did . 
Down to yesterday's post outward , my clergyman alone had written one thousand and seventy five letters to relatives and friends of the lost people . 
In the absence of self assertion , it was only through my now and then delicately putting a question as the occasion arose , that I became informed of these things . 
I never shall think of the former , without the latter . 
The two will always rest side by side in my memory . 
I was presently seated before a shipwreck of papers , all bordered with black , and from them I made the following few extracts . 
A mother writes REVEREND SIR . 
Amongst the many who perished on your shore was numbered my beloved son . 
My darling son would have been sixteen on Christmas day next . 
He was a most amiable and obedient child , early taught the way of salvation . 
We fondly hoped that as a British seaman he might be an ornament to his profession , but , 'it is well I feel assured my dear boy is now with the redeemed . 
Good bye , dear mother good bye , dearest parents . 
Good bye , dear brother . 
Oh , it was indeed an eternal farewell . 
I do not apologise for thus writing you , for oh , my heart is so very sorrowful . 
A husband writes MY DEAR KIND SIR . 
I feel , from all I have heard of you , that you will see it done decently and in order . 
This is denied me , but it is God's hand that afflicts us , and I try to submit . 
Some day I may be able to visit the spot , and see where he lies , and erect a simple stone to his memory . 
May God bless and sustain you , and all in connection with you , in this great trial . 
into heaven ! His dear mother begs me to convey to you her heartfelt thanks . 
Those who were received at the clergyman's house , write thus , after leaving it DEAR AND NEVER TO BE FORGOTTEN FRIENDS . 
I arrived here yesterday morning without accident , and am about to proceed to my home by railway . 
I am overpowered when I think of you and your hospitable home . 
No words could speak language suited to my heart . 
God reward you with the same measure you have meted with ! I enumerate no names , but embrace you all . 
This is the first day that I have been able to leave my bedroom since I returned , which will explain the reason of my not writing sooner . 
I fear now there is but little prospect , and I mourn as one without hope . 
Words cannot express the gratitude I feel I owe to you all for your benevolent aid , your kindness , and your sympathy . 
I arrived in safety at my house yesterday , and a night's rest has restored and tranquillised me . 
I must again repeat , that language has no words by which I can express my sense of obligation to you . 
You are enshrined in my heart of hearts . 
I have seen him ! and can now realise my misfortune more than I have hitherto been able to do . 
Oh , the bitterness of the cup I drink ! But I bow submissive . 
God MUST have done right . 
I do not want to feel less , but to acquiesce more simply . 
You have , indeed , like Boaz , 'not left off your kindness to the living and the dead . 
May our heavenly Father reward you for your acts of humanity and true philanthropy ! The 'Old Hebrew congregation of Liverpool' thus express themselves through their secretary REVEREND SIR . 
A Jewish gentleman writes REVEREND AND DEAR SIR . 
Considering the circumstances connected with my poor brother's fate , it does , indeed , appear a hard one . 
He had been away in all seven years he returned four years ago to see his family . 
He was then engaged to a very amiable young lady . 
He had been very successful abroad , and was now returning to fulfil his sacred vow he brought all his property with him in gold uninsured . 
We heard from him when the ship stopped at Queenstown , when he was in the highest of hope , and in a few short hours afterwards all was washed away . 
, those locks of hair , those scraps of letters , those many many slight memorials of hidden tenderness . 
May the blessing of God await thee . 
May the sun of glory shine around thy bed and may the gates of plenty , honour , and happiness be ever open to thee . 
May no sorrow distress thy days may no grief disturb thy nights . 
A sailor had these devices on his right arm . 
On the left arm , a flag , a true lover's knot , a face , and initials . 
This tattooing was found still plain , below the discoloured outer surface of a mutilated arm , when such surface was carefully scraped away with a knife . 
It is not improbable that the perpetuation of this marking custom among seamen , may be referred back to their desire to be identified , if drowned and flung ashore . 
As I brought the Coast guard down , so I took the Postman back , with his leathern wallet , walking stick , bugle , and terrier dog . 
Many a heart broken letter had he brought to the Rectory House within two months many a benignantly painstaking answer had he carried back . 
Without the name of the clergyman to whom I hope , not without carrying comfort to some heart at some time I have referred , my reference would be as nothing . 
He is the Reverend Stephen Roose Hughes , of Llanallgo , near Moelfra , Anglesey . 
His brother is the Reverend Hugh Robert Hughes , of Penrhos , Alligwy . 
For , that Eastern police magistrates are not always the wisest men of the East , may be inferred from their course of procedure respecting the fancy dressing and pantomime posturing at St . 
I asked this apparition what it called the place ? Unto which , it replied , with a ghastly grin and a sound like gurgling water in its throat 'Mr . 
Inspiration suggested to me that Mr. Baker was the acting coroner of that neighbourhood . 
'A common place for suicide , said I , looking down at the locks . 
'Sue ? returned the ghost , with a stare . 
And Jane he sucked the iron between each name 'and all the bileing . 
Ketches off their bonnets or shorls , takes a run , and headers down here , they doos . 
Always a headerin' down here , they is . 
'And at about that hour of the morning , I suppose ? 'Ah ! said the apparition . 
Two 'ull do for THEM . 
On'y mind you ! Here the apparition rested his profile on the bar , and gurgled in a sarcastic manner . 
'There must be somebody comin' . 
They don't go a headerin' down here , wen there an't no Bobby nor gen'ral Cove , fur to hear the splash . 
According to my interpretation of these words , I was myself a General Cove , or member of the miscellaneous public . 
But I dunno about restored , said the apparition 'blow THAT ! and vanished . 
, and made bold to ring at the workhouse gate , where I was wholly unexpected and quite unknown . 
A very bright and nimble little matron , with a bunch of keys in her hand , responded to my request to see the House . 
I began to doubt whether the police magistrate was quite right in his facts , when I noticed her quick , active little figure and her intelligent eyes . 
The Traveller should see the worst first . 
He was welcome to see everything . 
Such as it was , there it all was . 
This was the only preparation for our entering 'the Foul wards . 
They were in an old building squeezed away in a corner of a paved yard , quite detached from the more modern and spacious main body of the workhouse . 
on the floor , were women in every stage of distress and disease . 
None but those who have attentively observed such scenes , can conceive the extraordinary variety of expression still latent under the general monotony and uniformity of colour , attitude , and condition . 
The wretched rooms were as clean and sweet as it is possible for such rooms to be they would become a pest house in a single week , if they were ill kept . 
I accompanied the brisk matron up another barbarous staircase , into a better kind of loft devoted to the idiotic and imbecile . 
There was at least Light in it , whereas the windows in the former wards had been like sides of school boys' bird cages . 
in mentally disparaging each other , and contemptuously watching their neighbours . 
said , 'They has 'em continiwal , sir . 
They drops without no more notice than if they was coach horses dropped from the moon , sir . 
She turned up this young woman's face with her hand as she said it . 
This young woman was seated on the floor , pondering in the foreground of the afflicted . 
There was nothing repellent either in her face or head . 
Many , apparently worse , varieties of epilepsy and hysteria were about her , but she was said to be the worst here . 
When I had spoken to her a little , she still sat with her face turned up , pondering , and a gleam of the mid day sun shone in upon her . 
, and into the adjacent nursery . 
There were many babies here , and more than one handsome young mother . 
There were ugly young mothers also , and sullen young mothers , and callous young mothers . 
The Refractories were picking oakum , in a small room giving on a yard . 
They sat in line on a form , with their backs to a window before them , a table , and their work . 
The oldest Refractory was , say twenty youngest Refractory , say sixteen . 
'Five pound indeed ! I hain't a going fur to pick five pound , said the Chief of the Refractories , keeping time to herself with her head and chin . 
'If any place is better than this , said my brisk guide , in the calmest manner , 'it is a pity you left a good place when you had one . 
'Ho , no , I didn't , matron , returned the Chief , with another pull at her oakum , and a very expressive look at the enemy's forehead . 
'Don't say that , matron , cos it's lies ! Oakum Head brought up the skirmishers again , skirmished , and retired . 
You can't open your lips here , without a pleeseman . 
, and the skirmishers followed suit . 
'I'm sure I'd be thankful , protested the Chief , looking sideways at the Uncommercial , 'if I could be got into a place , or got abroad . 
I'm sick and tired of this precious Ouse , I am , with reason . 
So would be , and so was , Number Two . 
So would be , and so was , Oakum Head . 
So would be , and so were , Skirmishers . 
'It ain't no good being nothink else here , said the Chief . 
The Uncommercial thought it might be worth trying . 
'Oh no it ain't , said the Chief . 
'Not a bit of good , said Number Two . 
'And I'm sure I'd be very thankful to be got into a place , or got abroad , said the Chief . 
'And so should I , said Number Two . 
'Truly thankful , I should . 
And , as if she had then said , 'Chorus , ladies ! all the Skirmishers struck up to the same purpose . 
In ten minutes I had ceased to believe in such fables of a golden time as youth , the prime of life , or a hale old age . 
And what was very curious , was , that these dim old women had one company notion which was the fashion of the place . 
There was no obligation whatever upon them to range themselves in this way it was their manner of 'receiving . 
I have seen as many such places as most travellers in my line , and I never saw one such , better kept . 
Among the bedridden there was great patience , great reliance on the books under the pillow , great faith in GOD . 
From some of the windows , the river could be seen with all its life and movement the day was bright , but I came upon no one who was looking out . 
The younger of the two , just turned ninety , was deaf , but not very , and could easily be made to hear . 
In her early time she had nursed a child , who was now another old woman , more infirm than herself , inhabiting the very same chamber . 
She perfectly understood this when the matron told it , and , with sundry nods and motions of her forefinger , pointed out the woman in question . 
, was a bright eyed old soul , really not deaf , wonderfully preserved , and amazingly conversational . 
She had not long lost her husband , and had been in that place little more than a year . 
Now , I reasoned with myself , as I made my journey home again , concerning those Foul wards . 
They ought not to exist no person of common decency and humanity can see them and doubt it . 
George's in the East , and had found it to be an establishment highly creditable to those parts , and thoroughly well administered by a most intelligent master . 
I remarked in it , an instance of the collateral harm that obstinate vanity and folly can do . 
'This was the Hall where those old paupers , male and female , whom I had just seen , met for the Church service , was it ? 'Yes . 
'Did they sing the Psalms to any instrument ? 'They would like to , very much they would have an extraordinary interest in doing so . 
went up into the Mount of Olives . 
'I beg your pardon , sir , he had said , in a confidential manner , on another occasion , taking me aside 'but I have seen better days . 
'I am very sorry to hear it . 
'Sir , I have a complaint to make against the master . 
'I have no power here , I assure you . 
And if I had 'But , allow me , sir , to mention it , as between yourself and a man who has seen better days , sir . 
It is so essentially a neighbourhood which has seen better days , that bad weather affects it sooner than another place which has not come down in the World . 
In its present reduced condition it bears a thaw almost worse than any place I know . 
It gets so dreadfully low spirited when damp breaks forth . 
At the pipe shop in Great Russell street , the Death's head pipes were like theatrical memento mori , admonishing beholders of the decline of the playhouse as an Institution . 
And yet , on such a night in so degenerate a time , the object of my journey was theatrical . 
And yet within half an hour I was in an immense theatre , capable of holding nearly five thousand people . 
What Theatre ? Her Majesty's ? Far better . 
Royal Italian Opera ? Far better . 
Infinitely superior to the latter for hearing in infinitely superior to both , for seeing in . 
To every part of this Theatre , spacious fire proof ways of ingress and egress . 
For every part of it , convenient places of refreshment and retiring rooms . 
Theatres with entrance prices up to half a guinea a head , whose arrangements were not half so civilised . 
Surely , therefore , a dear Theatre ? Not very dear . 
A gallery at three pence , another gallery at fourpence , a pit at sixpence , boxes and pit stalls at a shilling , and a few private boxes at half a crown . 
Magnificently lighted by a firmament of sparkling chandeliers , the building was ventilated to perfection . 
The air of this Theatre was fresh , cool , and wholesome . 
To help towards this end , very sensible precautions had been used , ingeniously combining the experience of hospitals and railway stations . 
These various contrivances are as well considered in the place in question as if it were a Fever Hospital the result is , that it is sweet and healthful . 
Luke's Hospital in the Old street road , London . 
We were a motley assemblage of people , and we had a good many boys and young men among us we had also many girls and young women . 
To represent , however , that we did not include a very great number , and a very fair proportion of family groups , would be to make a gross mis statement . 
Among our dresses there were most kinds of shabby and greasy wear , and much fustian and corduroy that was neither sound nor fragrant . 
Many of us on the whole , the majority were not at all clean , and not at all choice in our lives or conversation . 
But we had all come together in a place where our convenience was well consulted , and where we were well looked after , to enjoy an evening's entertainment in common . 
We were not going to lose any part of what we had paid for through anybody's caprice , and as a community we had a character to lose . 
We were delighted to understand that there was no liberty anywhere but among ourselves , and we highly applauded the agreeable fact . 
Our excitement at that crisis was great , and our delight unbounded . 
concerning Knights and Ladies , Fairies , Angels , or such like , but they are not to be done as to anything in the streets . 
The Pantomime was succeeded by a Melo Drama . 
Throughout the evening I was pleased to observe Virtue quite as triumphant as she usually is out of doors , and indeed I thought rather more so . 
Between the pieces , we almost all of us went out and refreshed . 
The sandwich as substantial as was consistent with portability , and as cheap as possible we hailed as one of our greatest institutions . 
When the curtain fell for the night , we still fell back upon sandwich , to help us through the rain and mire , and home to bed . 
This , as I have mentioned , was Saturday night . 
Therefore , at the same hour of half past six on the similarly damp and muddy Sunday evening , I returned to this Theatre . 
, and found myself in a large crowd of people who , I am happy to state , were put into excellent spirits by my arrival . 
Having nothing to look at but the mud and the closed doors , they looked at me , and highly enjoyed the comic spectacle . 
They were chiefly people of respectable appearance , odd and impulsive as most crowds are , and making a joke of being there as most crowds do . 
After that , I lost no time in worming myself into the building , and creeping to a place in a Proscenium box that had been kept for me . 
There must have been full four thousand people present . 
Carefully estimating the pit alone , I could bring it out as holding little less than fourteen hundred . 
Every part of the house was well filled , and I had not found it easy to make my way along the back of the boxes to where I sat . 
The chandeliers in the ceiling were lighted there was no light on the stage the orchestra was empty . 
The green curtain was down , and , packed pretty closely on chairs on the small space of stage before it , were some thirty gentlemen , and two or three ladies . 
In the centre of these , in a desk or pulpit covered with red baize , was the presiding minister . 
A portion of Scripture was being read when I went in . 
It was followed by a discourse , to which the congregation listened with most exemplary attention and uninterrupted silence and decorum . 
My own attention comprehended both the auditory and the speaker , and shall turn to both in this recalling of the scene , exactly as it did at the time . 
'A very difficult thing , I thought , when the discourse began , 'to speak appropriately to so large an audience , and to speak with tact . 
Without it , better not to speak at all . 
Infinitely better , to read the New Testament well , and to let THAT speak . 
In this congregation there is indubitably one pulse but I doubt if any power short of genius can touch it as one , and make it answer as one . 
I could not possibly say to myself as the discourse proceeded , that the minister was a good speaker . 
I could not possibly say to myself that he expressed an understanding of the general mind and character of his audience . 
, 'Ah , John ? I am sorry to see you here . 
I am sorry to see you so poor . 
'Poor , sir ! replied that man , drawing himself up , 'I am the son of a Prince ! MY father is the King of Kings . 
MY father is the Lord of Lords . 
MY father is the ruler of all the Princes of the Earth ! c . 
Surely , it includes the other designation , and some touching meanings over and above . 
, who had been personally known to the preacher , and had been quite a Crichton in all the ways of philosophy , but had been an infidel . 
Many a time had the preacher talked with him on that subject , and many a time had he failed to convince that intelligent man . 
I must confess that to me , as one of an uninstructed audience , they did not appear particularly edifying . 
I thought their tone extremely selfish , and I thought they had a spiritual vanity in them which was of the before mentioned refractory pauper's family . 
The avoidance was not complete on this occasion . 
Nothing could be better than the spirit , or the plain emphatic words of his discourse in these respects . 
And now , I am brought to the fact , that the lowest part of the audience of the previous night , WAS NOT THERE . 
There is no doubt about it . 
There was no such thing in that building , that Sunday evening . 
I have been told since , that the lowest part of the audience of the Victoria Theatre has been attracted to its Sunday services . 
When I first took my seat and looked at the house , my surprise at the change in its occupants was as great as my disappointment . 
To the most respectable class of the previous evening , was added a great number of respectable strangers attracted by curiosity , and drafts from the regular congregations of various chapels . 
It was impossible to fail in identifying the character of these last , and they were very numerous . 
I came out in a strong , slow tide of them setting from the boxes . 
The time appointed for the conclusion of the proceedings was eight o'clock . 
The hymn was then sung , in good time and tune and unison , and its effect was very striking . 
A comprehensive benevolent prayer dismissed the throng , and in seven or eight minutes there was nothing left in the Theatre but a light cloud of dust . 
That these Sunday meetings in Theatres are good things , I do not doubt . 
There is a third head , taking precedence of all others , to which my remarks on the discourse I heard , have tended . 
In the New Testament there is the most beautiful and affecting history conceivable by man , and there are the terse models for all prayer and for all preaching . 
As to the models , imitate them , Sunday preachers else why are they there , consider ? As to the history , tell it . 
find it hard to pursue the verse form in which the book is presented to them , and imagine that those breaks imply gaps and want of continuity . 
Help them over that first stumbling block , by setting forth the history in narrative , with no fear of exhausting it . 
You will never preach so well , you will never move them so profoundly , you will never send them away with half so much to think of . 
This was my thought as I walked the dock quays at Liverpool , keeping watch on poor Mercantile Jack . 
Mercantile Jack was hard at it , in the hard weather as he mostly is in all weathers , poor Jack . 
Besides that it is composed , without favour , of the best men that can be picked , it is directed by an unusual intelligence . 
Its organisation against Fires , I take to be much better than the metropolitan system , and in all respects it tempers its remarkable vigilance with a still more remarkable discretion . 
To this remarkable stick , I refer an air of mystery and magic which pervaded the whole of my perquisition among the traps that were set for Jack . 
We began by diving into the obscurest streets and lanes of the port . 
'All right , Sharpeye ? 'All right , sir . 
'All right , Trampfoot ? 'All right , sir . 
'Is Quickear there ? 'Here am I , sir . 
So , Sharpeye went before , and Mr. Superintendent and I went next , and Trampfoot and Quickear marched as rear guard . 
Sharpeye opened several doors of traps that were set for Jack , but Jack did not happen to be in any of them . 
They were all such miserable places that really , Jack , if I were you , I would give them a wider berth . 
In every trap , somebody was sitting over a fire , waiting for Jack . 
lovely Nan but they were all waiting for Jack , and were all frightfully disappointed to see us . 
'Who have you got up stairs here ? says Sharpeye , generally . 
Ah ! you know Betsy , surr . 
Come down , Betsy darlin' , and say the gintlemin . 
with a forcible expression in her protesting face , of an intention to compensate herself for the present trial by grinding Jack finer than usual when he does come . 
Generally , Sharpeye turns to Mr. Superintendent , and says , as if the subjects of his remarks were wax work 'One of the worst , sir , this house is . 
This woman has been indicted three times . 
This man's a regular bad one likewise . 
His real name is Pegg . 
Gives himself out as Waterhouse . 
'Never had sitch a name as Pegg near me back , thin , since I was in this house , bee the good Lard ! says the woman . 
Generally , the man says nothing at all , but becomes exceedingly round shouldered , and pretends to read his paper with rapt attention . 
Generally , Sharpeye directs our observation with a look , to the prints and pictures that are invariably numerous on the walls . 
Always , Trampfoot and Quickear are taking notice on the doorstep . 
, we started off to a singing house where Jack was expected to muster strong . 
It was a Friday night , and Friday night was considered not a good night for Jack . 
Still , if all hands had been got together , they would not have more than half filled the room . 
A sharp and watchful man , Mr. Licensed Victualler , the host , with tight lips and a complete edition of Cocker's arithmetic in each eye . 
Attended to his business himself , he said . 
When he heard of talent , trusted nobody's account of it , but went off by rail to see it . 
If true talent , engaged it . 
Pounds a week for talent four pound five pound . 
Banjo Bones was undoubted talent . 
A good girl , said Mr. Licensed Victualler . 
Sat in Snug , not listening to the blandishments of Mates . 
Once a merchant well to do , but over speculated himself . 
What was more conclusive was , Mr. Victualler's assurance that he 'never allowed any language , and never suffered any disturbance . 
Sharpeye confirmed the statement , and the order that prevailed was the best proof of it that could have been cited . 
much worse than trust himself to Mr. Victualler , and pass his evenings here . 
But we had not yet looked , Mr. Superintendent said Trampfoot , receiving us in the street again with military salute for Dark Jack . 
Ring the wonderful stick , rub the wonderful lantern , and cause the spirits of the stick and lantern to convey us to the Darkies . 
There was no disappointment in the matter of Dark Jack HE was producible . 
More than that Dark Jack's delight was the least unlovely Nan , both morally and physically , that I saw that night . 
Tak' yah pardlers , jebblem , for 'um QUAD rill . 
This was the landlord , in a Greek cap , and a dress half Greek and half English . 
As master of the ceremonies , he called all the figures , and occasionally addressed himself parenthetically after this manner . 
When he was very loud , I use capitals . 
'Now den ! Hoy ! ONE . 
GENT come for'ard with a lady and go back , hoppersite come for'ard and do what yer can . 
BAL loon say , and leetle lemonade . 
Now den ! Hoy ! FOUR ! Lemonade . 
BAL loon say , and swing . 
The male dancers were all blacks , and one was an unusually powerful man of six feet three or four . 
The sound of their flat feet on the floor was as unlike the sound of white feet as their faces were unlike white faces . 
They generally kept together , these poor fellows , said Mr. Superintendent , because they were at a disadvantage singly , and liable to slights in the neighbouring streets . 
I need describe but two or three of the houses in which Jack was waited for as specimens of the rest . 
Many we attained by noisome passages so profoundly dark that we felt our way with our hands . 
Among such garniture , in one front parlour in the dead of the night , four women were sitting by a fire . 
One of them had a male child in her arms . 
On a stool among them was a swarthy youth with a guitar , who had evidently stopped playing when our footsteps were heard . 
'Well I how do YOU do ? says Mr. Superintendent , looking about him . 
'Pretty well , sir , and hope you gentlemen are going to treat us ladies , now you have come to see us . 
'Order there ! says Sharpeye . 
'None of that ! says Quickear . 
Trampfoot , outside , is heard to confide to himself , 'Meggisson's lot this is . 
And a bad 'un ! 'Well ! says Mr. Superintendent , laying his hand on the shoulder of the swarthy youth , 'and who's this ? 'Antonio , sir . 
'And what does HE do here ? 'Come to give us a bit of music . 
No harm in that , I suppose ? 'A young foreign sailor ? 'Yes . 
You're a Spaniard , ain't you , Antonio ? 'Me Spanish . 
'And he don't know a word you say , not he not if you was to talk to him till doomsday . 
'Will he play something ? 'Oh , yes , if you like . 
, that I occasioned a difficulty in this establishment , by having taken the child in my arms . 
As we came out the Bottle was passed to the ferocious joker , and they all sat down as before , including Antonio and the guitar . 
to another parlour in another Entry , where several people were sitting round a fire in just the same way . 
with two large white loaves on it , and a great piece of Cheshire cheese . 
'Well ! says Mr. Superintendent , with a comprehensive look all round . 
'How do YOU do ? 'Not much to boast of , sir . 
From the curtseying woman of the house . 
'This is my good man , sir . 
'You are not registered as a common Lodging House ? 'No , sir . 
puts in the pertinent inquiry , 'Then why ain't you ? 'Ain't got no one here , Mr. Sharpeye , rejoin the woman and my good man together , 'but our own family . 
'How many are you in family ? The woman takes time to count , under pretence of coughing , and adds , as one scant of breath , 'Seven , sir . 
'What does he do for a living ? The young man here , takes the reply upon himself , and shortly answers , 'Ain't got nothing to do . 
The young man here , is modestly brooding behind a damp apron pendent from a clothes line . 
As I glance at him I become but I don't know why vaguely reminded of Woolwich , Chatham , Portsmouth , and Dover . 
When we get out , my respected fellow constable Sharpeye , addressing Mr. Superintendent , says 'You noticed that young man , sir , in at Darby's ? 'Yes . 
What is he ? 'Deserter , sir . 
Mr. Sharpeye further intimates that when we have done with his services , he will step back and take that young man . 
Which in course of time he does feeling at perfect ease about finding him , and knowing for a moral certainty that nobody in that region will be gone to bed . 
It backed up a stout old lady HOGARTH drew her exact likeness more than once and a boy who was carefully writing a copy in a copy book . 
'Well , ma'am , how do YOU do ? Sweetly , she can assure the dear gentlemen , sweetly . 
And overjoyed to see us ! 'Why , this is a strange time for this boy to be writing his copy . 
One might have thought it recommended stirring the fire , the old lady so approved it . 
Later still in the night , we came to a nauseous room with an earth floor , into which the refuse scum of an alley trickled . 
The stench of this habitation was abominable the seeming poverty of it , diseased and dire . 
The mistress herself had the misfortune of being in jail . 
Three weird old women of transcendent ghastliness , were at needlework at a table in this room . 
Says Trampfoot to First Witch , 'What are you making ? Says she , 'Money bags . 
'WHAT are you making ? retorts Trampfoot , a little off his balance . 
'Bags to hold your money , says the witch , shaking her head , and setting her teeth 'you as has got it . 
She holds up a common cash bag , and on the table is a heap of such bags . 
Witch Two laughs at us . 
Witch Three scowls at us . 
Witch sisterhood all , stitch , stitch . 
First Witch has a circle round each eye . 
I fancy it like the beginning of the development of a perverted diabolical halo , and that when it spreads all round her head , she will die in the odour of devilry . 
Adjured not to disturb the child , she lets it drop again . 
Thus we find at last that there is one child in the world of Entries who goes to bed if this be bed . 
Mr. Superintendent asks how long are they going to work at those bags ? How long ? First Witch repeats . 
Going to have supper presently . 
See the cups and saucers , and the plates . 
Some grim discourse ensues , referring to the mistress of the cave , who will be released from jail to morrow . 
Witches pronounce Trampfoot 'right there , when he deems it a trying distance for the old lady to walk she shall be fetched by niece in a spring cart . 
For , Jack came even here , and the mistress had got into jail through deluding Jack . 
, and improved dock regulations giving Jack greater benefit of fire and candle aboard ship , through my mind's wandering among the vermin I had seen . 
Afterwards the same vermin ran all over my sleep . 
This is a curious thing to consider . 
I consider it further , I must utter a passing word of wonder concerning high winds . 
I wonder why metropolitan gales always blow so hard at Walworth . 
It must surely be blown away . 
Some nameless policeman , too , is constantly , on the slightest provocation , getting himself blown into this same Surrey Canal . 
Will SIR RICHARD MAYNE see to it , and restrain that weak minded and feeble bodied constable ? To resume the consideration of the curious question of Refreshment . 
I start from home at seven or eight in the morning , after breakfasting hurriedly . 
Please to observe , expected . 
It is in vain for me to represent to them by my humble and conciliatory manners , that I wish to be liberal . 
It is in vain for me to represent to myself , for the encouragement of my sinking soul , that the young ladies have a pecuniary interest in my arrival . 
Neither my reason nor my feelings can make head against the cold glazed glare of eye with which I am assured that I am not expected , and not wanted . 
The solitary man among the bottles would sometimes take pity on me , if he dared , but he is powerless against the rights and mights of Woman . 
to a place of durance , half an hour prior to the commencement of the festivities . 
Mr. Grazinglands , of the Midland Counties , came to London by railroad one morning last week , accompanied by the amiable and fascinating Mrs. Grazinglands . 
remarked with sympathy , 'Arabella' , my dear , 'fear you are faint . 
Mrs. Grazing lands replied , 'Alexander , I am rather faint but don't mind me , I shall be better presently . 
Touched by the feminine meekness of this answer , Mr. Grazinglands looked in at a pastrycook's window , hesitating as to the expediency of lunching at that establishment . 
He beheld nothing to eat , but butter in various forms , slightly charged with jam , and languidly frizzling over tepid water . 
Over the whole , a young lady presided , whose gloomy haughtiness as she surveyed the street , announced a deep seated grievance against society , and an implacable determination to be avenged . 
As he decided against entering , and turned away , Mrs. Grazinglands becoming perceptibly weaker , repeated , 'I am rather faint , Alexander , but don't mind me . 
He might have entered even here , but for the timely remembrance coming upon him that Jairing's was but round the corner . 
That lady , likewise felt that she was going to see Life . 
Also , a sofa , of incomprehensible form regarded from any sofane point of view , murmured 'Bed while an air of mingled fluffiness and heeltaps , added , 'Second Waiter's . 
You are going off by railway , from any Terminus . 
You have twenty minutes for dinner , before you go . 
You want your dinner , and like Dr . 
Johnson , Sir , you like to dine . 
You present to your mind , a picture of the refreshment table at that terminus . 
I cannot dine on shining brown patties , composed of unknown animals within , and offering to my view the device of an indigestible star fish in leaden pie crust without . 
I cannot dine on a sandwich that has long been pining under an exhausted receiver . 
I cannot dine on barley sugar . 
I cannot dine on Toffee . 
You repair to the nearest hotel , and arrive , agitated , in the coffee room . 
It is a most astonishing fact that the waiter is very cold to you . 
Account for it how you may , smooth it over how you will , you cannot deny that he is cold to you . 
He is not glad to see you , he does not want you , he would much rather you hadn't come . 
He opposes to your flushed condition , an immovable composure . 
You impress on your waiter that you have ten minutes for dinner , and he proposes that you shall begin with a bit of fish which will be ready in twenty . 
That proposal declined , he suggests as a neat originality 'a weal or mutton cutlet . 
You close with either cutlet , any cutlet , anything . 
He goes , leisurely , behind a door and calls down some unseen shaft . 
A ventriloquial dialogue ensues , tending finally to the effect that weal only , is available on the spur of the moment . 
Or lastly , take to finish with , two cases that we all know , every day . 
We all know the doors that have cracked , and the cracked shutters through which we get a glimpse of the disconsolate moon . 
We all know the new people , who have come to keep the new hotel , and who wish they had never come , and who wish WE had never come . 
We all know how the gas , being lighted , shows maps of Damp upon the walls . 
whether we come or go , or how , or when , or why , or cares about us . 
My uncommercial travelling has not yet brought me to the conclusion that we are close to perfection in these matters . 
, except that I was going abroad . 
'Holloa ! said I , to the very queer small boy , 'where do you live ? 'At Chatham , says he . 
'What do you do there ? says I. 'I go to school , says he . 
I took him up in a moment , and we went on . 
Presently , the very queer small boy says , 'This is Gads hill we are coming to , where Falstaff went out to rob those travellers , and ran away . 
'You know something about Falstaff , eh ? said I. 'All about him , said the very queer small boy . 
, and I read all sorts of books . 
And now , I am nine , I come by myself to look at it . 
Though that's impossible ! said the very queer small boy , drawing a low breath , and now staring at the house out of window with all his might . 
Well ! I made no halt there , and I soon dropped the very queer small boy and went on . 
'How glad I am to wake ! What are we doing Louis ? 'We go to take relay of horses . 
Will you walk up the hill ? 'Certainly . 
We journeyed on again , and I welcomed every new assurance that France stood where I had left it . 
Whenever I am at Paris , I am dragged by invisible force into the Morgue . 
I never want to go there , but am always pulled there . 
I was out of the river , and dressing instantly . 
In the shock I had taken some water into my mouth , and it turned me sick , for I fancied that the contamination of the creature was in it . 
I had got back to my cool darkened room in the hotel , and was lying on a sofa there , before I began to reason with myself . 
I noticed the peculiarities of this possession , while it was a real discomfort to me . 
That very day , at dinner , some morsel on my plate looked like a piece of him , and I was glad to get up and go out . 
Later in the evening , I was walking along the Rue St . 
Honore , when I saw a bill at a public room there , announcing small sword exercise , broad sword exercise , wrestling , and other such feats . 
I went in , and some of the sword play being very skilful , remained . 
A specimen of our own national sport , The British Boaxe , was announced to be given at the close of the evening . 
In an evil hour , I determined to wait for this Boaxe , as became a Briton . 
in the little ante room of my apartment at the hotel . 
Yet the whiff of the room never failed to reproduce him . 
What was more curious , was the capriciousness with which his portrait seemed to light itself up in my mind , elsewhere . 
I might be walking in the Palais Royal , lazily enjoying the shop windows , and might be regaling myself with one of the ready made clothes shops that are set out there . 
This would happen at the theatre , in the same manner . 
Often it would happen in the street , when I certainly was not looking for the likeness , and when probably there was no likeness there . 
equally attended by the image of a living aversion . 
This lasted about a week . 
The picture did not fade by degrees , in the sense that it became a whit less forcible and distinct , but in the sense that it obtruded itself less and less frequently . 
The experience may be worth considering by some who have the care of children . 
It would be difficult to overstate the intensity and accuracy of an intelligent child's observation . 
At that impressible time of life , it must sometimes produce a fixed impression . 
On a bright morning I rattled away from Paris , in the German chariot , and left the large dark creature behind me for good . 
However , I rattled away for Switzerland , looking forward and not backward , and so we parted company . 
, in a very big headed cabriolet , with the dried mud of a dozen winters on it . 
How such a large house came to have only three people living in it , was its own affair . 
There were at least a score of windows in its high roof alone how many in its grotesque front , I soon gave up counting . 
The owner was a shopkeeper , by name Straudenheim by trade I couldn't make out what by trade , for he had forborne to write that up , and his shop was shut . 
At first , as I looked at Straudenheim's , through the steadily falling rain , I set him up in business in the goose liver line . 
But , inspection of Straudenheim , who became visible at a window on the second floor , convinced me that there was something more precious than liver in the case . 
He wore a black velvet skull cap , and looked usurious and rich . 
A large lipped , pear nosed old man , with white hair , and keen eyes , though near sighted . 
She was cheerily dressed , had a fan in her hand , and wore large gold earrings and a large gold cross . 
but for the pestilent rain . 
The housekeeper , her arms folded on her bosom and her fan tapping her chin , was bright and smiling at her open window , but otherwise Straudenheim's house front was very dreary . 
And my opinion of Straudenheim was much lowered when I saw that eminent citizen spit out of window , clearly with the hope of spitting on the housekeeper . 
The unconscious housekeeper fanned herself , tossed her head , and laughed . 
Though unconscious of Straudenheim , she was conscious of somebody else of me ? there was nobody else . 
After leaning so far out of the window , that I confidently expected to see their heels tilt up , Straudenheim and the lean man drew their heads in and shut the window . 
Presently , the house door secretly opened , and they slowly and spitefully crept forth into the pouring rain . 
The tall glazed head dress of this warrior , Straudenheim instantly knocked off , and out of it fell two sugar sticks , and three or four large lumps of sugar . 
little coat open , and shook all his ten fingers in his face , as if they were ten thousand . 
When these outrages had been committed , Straudenheim and his man went into the house again and barred the door . 
, only fanned herself and laughed as she had laughed before , and seemed to have no opinion about it , one way or other . 
But , the chief effect of the drama was the remarkable vengeance taken by the little warrior . 
Not only that , but he afterwards came back with two other small warriors , and they all three did it together . 
And then they all went away , arm in arm , singing . 
And now I came to the land of wooden houses , innocent cakes , thin butter soup , and spotless little inn bedrooms with a family likeness to Dairies . 
that it became a science to know where the nurse ended and the child began . 
in the region of wind , now in the region of fire , now in the region of unmelting ice and snow . 
'It will do very well , said I , rather sorrowfully , as I got out at the other door , and shut the carriage up . 
CHAPTER VIII THE GREAT TASMANIA'S CARGO I travel constantly , up and down a certain line of railway that has a terminus in London . 
It is the railway for a large military depot , and for other large barracks . 
To the best of my serious belief , I have never been on that railway by daylight , without seeing some handcuffed deserters in the train . 
It is in the nature of things that such an institution as our English army should have many bad and troublesome characters in it . 
But , this is a reason for , and not against , its being made as acceptable as possible to well disposed men of decent behaviour . 
Such men are assuredly not tempted into the ranks , by the beastly inversion of natural laws , and the compulsion to live in worse than swinish foulness . 
But , let us at least do our duty towards HIM . 
I had got back again to that rich and beautiful port where I had looked after Mercantile Jack , and I was walking up a hill there , on a wild March morning . 
because these men had claimed to be discharged , when their right to be discharged was not admitted . 
I almost began to hope that the hitherto never failing deserters on my railroad would by and by become a phenomenon . 
In this agreeable frame of mind I entered the workhouse of Liverpool . 
For , the cultivation of laurels in a sandy soil , had brought the soldiers in question to THAT abode of Glory . 
The men were so dreadfully cold , that those who could get near the fires were hard to be restrained from thrusting their feet in among the blazing coals . 
They were so horribly reduced , that they were awful to look upon . 
Racked with dysentery and blackened with scurvy , one hundred and forty wretched soldiers had been revived with brandy and laid in bed . 
My official friend Pangloss is lineally descended from a learned doctor of that name , who was once tutor to Candide , an ingenious young gentleman of some celebrity . 
A medical officer laid before us , a handful of rotten biscuit , and a handful of split peas . 
The biscuit was a honeycombed heap of maggots , and the excrement of maggots . 
The peas were even harder than this filth . 
A similar handful had been experimentally boiled six hours , and had shown no signs of softening . 
These were the stores on which the soldiers had been fed . 
'The beef I began , when Pangloss cut me short . 
'Was the best of all possible beef , said he . 
'Then the authorities out there I began , when Pangloss cut me short again . 
'There would certainly seem to have been something wrong somewhere , said he 'but I am prepared to prove that the authorities out there , are the best of all possible authorities . 
I never heard of any impeached public authority in my life , who was not the best public authority in existence . 
, the water supply exceedingly inadequate , and the beer sour . 
'Then the men , said Pangloss , a little irritated , 'Were the worst of all possible men . 
'In what respect ? I asked . 
'Oh ! Habitual drunkards , said Pangloss . 
They would not have strength of constitution to do it . 
'Reckless and improvident dogs , then , said Pangloss . 
'Always are nine times out of ten . 
I turned to the master of the workhouse , and asked him whether the men had any money ? 'Money ? said he . 
'I have in my iron safe , nearly four hundred pounds of theirs the agents have nearly a hundred pounds more and many of them have left money in Indian banks besides . 
We went into several such wards , one after another . 
Here , lay a man with the black scurvy eating his legs away , his gums gone , and his teeth all gaunt and bare . 
This bed was empty , because gangrene had set in , and the patient had died but yesterday . 
by deep incisions in the feet and legs . 
He was sorely wasted and keenly susceptible , but the efforts he made to subdue any expression of impatience or suffering , were quite heroic . 
Of thankfulness for present solicitude and care , I heard much of complaint , not a word . 
I think I could have recognised in the dismalest skeleton there , the ghost of a soldier . 
Something of the old air was still latent in the palest shadow of life I talked to . 
'We shall pull him through , please God , said the Doctor . 
'Plase God , surr , and thankye , said the patient . 
'You are much better to day are you not ? said the Doctor . 
'Plase God , surr 'tis the slape I want , surr 'tis my breathin' makes the nights so long . 
Probably it saved his life . 
You might have sworn to him for a soldier when he said it . 
One thing had perplexed me very much in going from bed to bed . 
A very significant and cruel thing . 
I could find no young man but one . 
I could have pronounced him , alone , to be a young man aged by famine and sickness . 
As we were standing by the Irish soldier's bed , I mentioned my perplexity to the Doctor . 
The Doctor , with a pitying glance at the patient , who had dropped into a stupor again , put the board back , and said , 'Twenty four . 
All the arrangements of the wards were excellent . 
They could not have been more humane , sympathising , gentle , attentive , or wholesome . 
The owners of the ship , too , had done all they could , liberally . 
There were bright fires in every room , and the convalescent men were sitting round them , reading various papers and periodicals . 
they knew nothing whatever , except that we were there . 
It was audacious in me , but I took another liberty with Pangloss . 
Firstly , to observe that the Inquest WAS NOT HELD IN THAT PLACE , but at some distance off . 
Secondly , to look round upon those helpless spectres in their beds . 
There was a sergeant , reading , in one of the fireside groups . 
'I was glad to see , in the evidence of an officer at the Inquest , sergeant , that he never saw men behave better on board ship than these men . 
'They did behave very well , sir . 
'I was glad to see , too , that every man had a hammock . 
The sergeant gravely shook his head . 
'There must be some mistake , sir . 
The men of my own mess had no hammocks . 
'Had the squeezed out men none then ? 'None , sir . 
As men died , their hammocks were used by other men , who wanted hammocks but many men had none at all . 
'Then you don't agree with the evidence on that point ? 'Certainly not , sir . 
A man can't , when he knows to the contrary . 
'Did any of the men sell their bedding for drink ? 'There is some mistake on that point too , sir . 
'Did any of the men sell their clothes for drink ? 'They did , sir . 
'Many ? 'Some , sir' . 
'The marching to Calcutta in the rainy season must have been severe ? 'It was very severe , sir . 
'The sick had a general disinclination for food , I am told , sergeant ? 'Have you seen the food , sir ? 'Some of it . 
I believe the sick could as soon have eaten the ship , as the ship's provisions . 
My hand and my heart fail me , in writing my record of this journey . 
, was so shocking and so shameful , that as an Englishman I blush to remember it . 
It would have been simply unbearable at the time , but for the consideration and pity with which they were soothed in their sufferings . 
No punishment that our inefficient laws provide , is worthy of the name when set against the guilt of this transaction . 
that so neglects its duty , and infamous to the nation that tamely suffers such intolerable wrong to be done in its name . 
by my adding that the journeys in question were made to churches . 
Not that I have any curiosity to hear powerful preachers . 
Time was , when I was dragged by the hair of my head , as one may say , to hear too many . 
But , it was not to hear these , any more than the powerful class , that I made my Sunday journeys . 
They were journeys of curiosity to the numerous churches in the City of London . 
I began my expeditions that very same day , and they lasted me a year . 
I never wanted to know the names of the churches to which I went , and to this hour I am profoundly ignorant in that particular of at least nine tenths of them . 
A full half of my pleasure in them arose out of their mystery mysterious I found them mysterious they shall remain for me . 
The rest of our freight were mere chance pleasure seekers and rural walkers , and went on to the Blackwall railway . 
So many bells are ringing , when I stand undecided at a street corner , that every sheep in the ecclesiastical fold might be a bell wether . 
I choose my church , and go up the flight of steps to the great entrance in the tower . 
A mouldy tower within , and like a neglected washhouse . 
He stares at me , wondering how I come there , and I stare at him , wondering how he comes there . 
Through a screen of wood and glass , I peep into the dim church . 
About twenty people are discernible , waiting to begin . 
looks as if it wouldn't come off , upon requirement . 
I perceive the altar to be rickety and the Commandments damp . 
Entering after this survey , I jostle the clergyman in his canonicals , who is entering too from a dark lane behind a pew of state with curtains , where nobody sits . 
I open the door of a family pew , and shut myself in if I could occupy twenty family pews at once I might have them . 
, glances at me knowingly , as who should say , 'You have done it now you must stop . 
Organ loft is in a small gallery across the church gallery congregation , two girls . 
I wonder within myself what will happen when we are required to sing . 
I wink , sneeze , and cough . 
all our little party wink , sneeze , and cough . 
The snuff seems to be made of the decay of matting , wood , cloth , stone , iron , earth , and something else . 
We stamp our feet to warm them , and dead citizens arise in heavy clouds . 
Dead citizens stick upon the walls , and lie pulverised on the sounding board over the clergyman's head , and , when a gust of air comes , tumble down upon him . 
But , I tried again next Sunday , and soon accustomed myself to the dead citizens when I found that I could not possibly get on without them among the City churches . 
As a congregation , we are fourteen strong not counting an exhausted charity school in a gallery , which has dwindled away to four boys , and two girls . 
, and three sniggering boys . 
The aunt and nephew in this City church are much disturbed by the sniggering boys . 
The nephew is himself a boy , and the sniggerers tempt him to secular thoughts of marbles and string , by secretly offering such commodities to his distant contemplation . 
This young Saint Anthony for a while resists , but presently becomes a backslider , and in dumb show defies the sniggerers to 'heave' a marble or two in his direction . 
, and I perceive that worthy relative to poke him in the side , with the corrugated hooked handle of an ancient umbrella . 
The nephew revenges himself for this , by holding his breath and terrifying his kinswoman with the dread belief that he has made up his mind to burst . 
Number two gets out in the same way , but rather quicker . 
Number three getting safely to the door , there turns reckless , and banging it open , flies forth with a Whoop ! that vibrates to the top of the tower above us . 
In one of these City churches , and only in one , I found an individual who might have been claimed as expressly a City personage . 
I doubt if we were a dozen , and we had no exhausted charity school to help us out . 
The personage was dressed in black of square cut , and was stricken in years , and wore a black velvet cap , and cloth shoes . 
He was of a staid , wealthy , and dissatisfied aspect . 
In his hand , he conducted to church a mysterious child a child of the feminine gender . 
The child had a beaver hat , with a stiff drab plume that surely never belonged to any bird of the air . 
The child was further attired in a nankeen frock and spencer , brown boxing gloves , and a veil . 
It had a blemish , in the nature of currant jelly , on its chin and was a thirsty child . 
Insomuch that the personage carried in his pocket a green bottle , from which , when the first psalm was given out , the child was openly refreshed . 
At all other times throughout the service it was motionless , and stood on the seat of the large pew , closely fitted into the corner , like a rain water pipe . 
The personage never opened his book , and never looked at the clergyman . 
It was a long church for a church of its size , and he was at the upper end , but he always looked at the door . 
That he had lived in the City all his life and was disdainful of other localities , no doubt . 
He appeared to expect that this would occur on a Sunday , and that the wanderers would first appear , in the deserted churches , penitent and humbled . 
Hence , he looked at the door which they never darkened . 
Whose child the child was , whether the child of a disinherited daughter , or some parish orphan whom the personage had adopted , there was nothing to lead up to . 
It never played , or skipped , or smiled . 
Four Sundays I followed them out , and this is all I ever heard or saw them say . 
One Sunday , I followed them home . 
They lived behind a pump , and the personage opened their abode with an exceeding large key . 
The one solitary inscription on their house related to a fire plug . 
The house was partly undermined by a deserted and closed gateway its windows were blind with dirt and it stood with its face disconsolately turned to a wall . 
The last time I saw them , was on this wise . 
I had been to explore another church at a distance , and happened to pass the church they frequented , at about two of the afternoon when that edifice was closed . 
But , a little side door , which I had never observed before , stood open , and disclosed certain cellarous steps . 
Methought 'They are airing the vaults to day , when the personage and the child silently arrived at the steps , and silently descended . 
, to come into the City as a new and odd excitement . 
It was wonderful to see how these young people played out their little play in the heart of the City , all among themselves , without the deserted City's knowing anything about it . 
It was as if you should take an empty counting house on a Sunday , and act one of the old Mysteries there . 
to assist in the performances , and it was pleasant to notice frantic garlands of inscription on the walls , especially addressing those poor innocents in characters impossible for them to decipher . 
There was a remarkably agreeable smell of pomatum in this congregation . 
From Rood lane to Tower street , and thereabouts , there was often a subtle flavour of wine sometimes , of tea . 
One church near Mincing lane smelt like a druggist's drawer . 
Be the scent what it would , however , there was no speciality in the people . 
There were never enough of them to represent any calling or neighbourhood . 
They had all gone elsewhere over night , and the few stragglers in the many churches languished there inexpressively . 
Among the Uncommercial travels in which I have engaged , this year of Sunday travel occupies its own place , apart from all the rest . 
In all those dusty registers that the worms are eating , there is not a line but made some hearts leap , or some tears flow , in their day . 
Still and dry now , still and dry ! and the old tree at the window with no room for its branches , has seen them all out . 
So with the tomb of the old Master of the old Company , on which it drips . 
There are few more striking indications of the changes of manners and customs that two or three hundred years have brought about , than these deserted churches . 
They remain like the tombs of the old citizens who lie beneath them and around them , Monuments of another age . 
My last special feat was turning out of bed at two , after a hard day , pedestrian and otherwise , and walking thirty miles into the country to breakfast . 
The road was so lonely in the night , that I fell asleep to the monotonous sound of my own feet , doing their regular four miles an hour . 
Mile after mile I walked , without the slightest sense of exertion , dozing heavily and dreaming constantly . 
, and that I spoke a certain language once pretty familiar to me , but which I have nearly forgotten from disuse , with fluency . 
The readiness is not imaginary , because I often recall long strings of the verses , and many turns of the fluent speech , after I am broad awake . 
My walking is of two kinds one , straight on end to a definite goal at a round pace one , objectless , loitering , and purely vagabond . 
These illustrious men are highly coloured in fighting trim , and fighting attitude . 
On the whole , the associations entwined with the pugilistic art by this artist are much in the manner of Izaak Walton . 
But , it is with the lower animals of back streets and by ways that my present purpose rests . 
For human notes we may return to such neighbourhoods when leisure and opportunity serve . 
Nothing in shy neighbourhoods perplexes my mind more , than the bad company birds keep . 
Foreign birds often get into good society , but British birds are inseparable from low associates . 
There is a whole street of them in St . 
Giles's and I always find them in poor and immoral neighbourhoods , convenient to the public house and the pawnbroker's . 
They seem to lead people into drinking , and even the man who makes their cages usually gets into a chronic state of black eye . 
In a dirty court in Spitalfields , once , I found a goldfinch drawing his own water , and drawing as much of it as if he were in a consuming fever . 
That goldfinch lived at a bird shop , and offered , in writing , to barter himself against old clothes , empty bottles , or even kitchen stuff . 
Surely a low thing and a depraved taste in any finch ! I bought that goldfinch for money . 
He was sent home , and hung upon a nail over against my table . 
to be a dyer's otherwise it would have been impossible to account for his perch sticking out of the garret window . 
He drew no water but by stealth and under the cloak of night . 
After an interval of futile and at length hopeless expectation , the merchant who had educated him was appealed to . 
The merchant was a bow legged character , with a flat and cushiony nose , like the last new strawberry . 
He wore a fur cap , and shorts , and was of the velveteen race , velveteeny . 
He sent word that he would 'look round . 
He looked round , appeared in the doorway of the room , and slightly cocked up his evil eye at the goldfinch . 
Gentility , nobility , Royalty , would appeal to that donkey in vain to do what he does for a costermonger . 
Then , starve him , harness him anyhow to a truck with a flat tray on it , and see him bowl from Whitechapel to Bayswater . 
I have known a donkey by sight we were not on speaking terms who lived over on the Surrey side of London bridge , among the fastnesses of Jacob's Island and Dockhead . 
It was the habit of that animal , when his services were not in immediate requisition , to go out alone , idling . 
I have met him a mile from his place of residence , loitering about the streets and the expression of his countenance at such times was most degraded . 
His mistress was sometimes overtaken by inebriety . 
he was in circumstances of difficulty , caused by this failing . 
Having been left alone with the cart of periwinkles , and forgotten , he went off idling . 
He was taken into custody by the police , and , the Green Yard of the district being near at hand , was backed into that place of durance . 
At that crisis , I encountered him the stubborn sense he evinced of being not to compromise the expression a blackguard , I never saw exceeded in the human subject . 
I have seen boys being taken to station houses , who were as like him as his own brother . 
The dogs of shy neighbourhoods , I observe to avoid play , and to be conscious of poverty . 
They avoid work , too , if they can , of course that is in the nature of all animals . 
represents him in the act of dragging to the earth a recreant Indian , who is supposed to have tomahawked , or essayed to tomahawk , a British officer . 
The design is pure poetry , for there is no such Indian in the piece , and no such incident . 
He is a dog of the Newfoundland breed , for whose honesty I would be bail to any amount but whose intellectual qualities in association with dramatic fiction , I cannot rate high . 
Indeed , he is too honest for the profession he has entered . 
Being at a town in Yorkshire last summer , and seeing him posted in the bill of the night , I attended the performance . 
, it scarcely afforded ground for a cool and deliberate judgment of his powers . 
He had merely to bark , run on , and jump through an inn window , after a comic fugitive . 
But it was in his greatest scene of all , that his honesty got the better of him . 
a little too obvious that he worked out that awful retribution by licking butter off his blood stained hands . 
In a shy street , behind Long acre , two honest dogs live , who perform in Punch's shows . 
The difficulty other dogs have in satisfying their minds about these dogs , appears to be never overcome by time . 
He had scarcely got a wink of sleep , when up comes Punch with Toby . 
He was darting to Toby for consolation and advice , when he saw the frill , and stopped , in the middle of the street , appalled . 
The show was pitched , Toby retired behind the drapery , the audience formed , the drum and pipes struck up . 
At this spectacle , the country dog threw up his head , gave one terrible howl , and fled due west . 
We talk of men keeping dogs , but we might often talk more expressively of dogs keeping men . 
I know a bull dog in a shy corner of Hammersmith who keeps a man . 
I once knew a fancy terrier who kept a gentleman a gentleman who had been brought up at Oxford , too . 
The dog kept the gentleman entirely for his glorification , and the gentleman never talked about anything but the terrier . 
This , however , was not in a shy neighbourhood , and is a digression consequently . 
There are a great many dogs in shy neighbourhoods , who keep boys . 
I have my eye on a mongrel in Somerstown who keeps three boys . 
, and he takes the boys out on sporting pretences into all sorts of suburban fields . 
There is a dog residing in the Borough of Southwark who keeps a blind man . 
Contrariwise , when the man has projects , the dog will sit down in a crowded thoroughfare and meditate . 
The north wall of Burlington House Gardens , between the Arcade and the Albany , offers a shy spot for appointments among blind men at about two or three o'clock in the afternoon . 
on a sloping stone there , and compare notes . 
, I know a shaggy black and white dog who keeps a drover . 
He is a dog of an easy disposition , and too frequently allows this drover to get drunk . 
On these occasions , it is the dog's custom to sit outside the public house , keeping his eye on a few sheep , and thinking . 
I have seen him perplexed by not being able to account to himself for certain particular sheep . 
In appearance , they are very like the women among whom they live . 
They seem to turn out of their unwholesome beds into the street , without any preparation . 
They leave their young families to stagger about the gutters , unassisted , while they frouzily quarrel and swear and scratch and spit , at street corners . 
the resemblance is strongly expressed in a certain dusty dowdiness , down at heel self neglect , and general giving up of things . 
I cannot honestly report that I have ever seen a feline matron of this class washing her face when in an interesting condition . 
I wonder at nothing concerning them , and take them as they are . 
I accept as products of Nature and things of course , a reduced Bantam family of my acquaintance in the Hackney road , who are incessantly at the pawnbroker's . 
I cannot say that they enjoy themselves , for they are of a melancholy temperament but what enjoyment they are capable of , they derive from crowding together in the pawnbroker's side entry . 
Here , they are always to be found in a feeble flutter , as if they were newly come down in the world , and were afraid of being identified . 
, who are always trying to get in at the door of a chapel . 
But , the family I have been best acquainted with , since the removal from this trying sphere of a Chinese circle at Brentford , reside in the densest part of Bethnal green . 
They look upon old shoes , wrecks of kettles and saucepans , and fragments of bonnets , as a kind of meteoric discharge , for fowls to peck at . 
Peg tops and hoops they account , I think , as a sort of hail shuttlecocks , as rain , or dew . 
, he goes to sleep on his back . 
He lies on the broad of his back , with his face turned up to the sky , and one of his ragged arms loosely thrown across his face . 
is thrown down beside him , and the waking woman with him sits with her legs in the ditch , and her back to the road . 
She does not often go to sleep herself in the daytime , but will sit for any length of time beside the man . 
And his slumberous propensities would not seem to be referable to the fatigue of carrying the bundle , for she carries it much oftener and further than he . 
When they are afoot , you will mostly find him slouching on ahead , in a gruff temper , while she lags heavily behind with the burden . 
He has no occupation whatever , this order of tramp , and has no object whatever in going anywhere . 
He will sometimes call himself a brickmaker , or a sawyer , but only when he takes an imaginary flight . 
He generally represents himself , in a vague way , as looking out for a job of work but he never did work , he never does , and he never will . 
He'd never know the want of it , nor more would you . 
Arriving at the bottom of the hill and coming close to the figure , you observe it to be the figure of a shabby young man . 
When he is aware of you , you discover him to be a remarkably well behaved young man , and a remarkably well spoken young man . 
You know him to be well behaved , by his respectful manner of touching his hat you know him to be well spoken , by his smooth manner of expressing himself . 
You give the well spoken young man the time . 
The well spoken young man becomes greatly agitated . 
They are a man and woman , spotless to behold John Anderson , with the frost on his short smock frock instead of his 'pow , attended by Mrs. Anderson . 
Yes one thing more remained to Mr. Anderson his character Monarchs could not deprive him of his hard earned character . 
This benevolent pastor omitted no work of his hands to fit the good couple out , for with half an eye you can recognise his autograph on the spade . 
Another class of tramp is a man , the most valuable part of whose stock in trade is a highly perplexed demeanour . 
a neat but worn old leathern purse , from which he takes a scrap of paper . 
Albans , and present him with half a crown . 
But , the most vicious , by far , of all the idle tramps , is the tramp who pretends to have been a gentleman . 
'Educated , he writes , from the village beer shop in pale ink of a ferruginous complexion 'educated at Trin . 
nursed in the lap of affluence once in my small way the pattron of the Muses , c . 
between the baby and the mother's breast . 
even the wild convolvulus and rose and sweet briar , are the worse for his going by , and need time to recover from the taint of him in the air . 
There is a tramp fellowship among them . 
They pick one another up at resting stations , and go on in companies . 
They always go at a fast swing though they generally limp too and there is invariably one of the company who has much ado to keep up with the rest . 
They generally talk about horses , and any other means of locomotion than walking or , one of the company relates some recent experiences of the road which are always disputes and difficulties . 
'So as I'm a standing at the pump in the market , blest if there don't come up a Beadle , and he ses , Mustn't stand here , he ses . 
Why not ? I ses . 
No beggars allowed in this town , he ses . 
Who's a beggar ? I ses . 
You are , he ses . 
Who ever see ME beg ? Did YOU ? I ses . 
Then you're a tramp , he ses . 
I'd rather be that than a Beadle , I ses . 
Would you ? he ses to me . 
Yes , I would , I ses to him . 
Well , he ses , anyhow , get out of this town . 
Then , there are the tramp handicraft men . 
For the worst six weeks or so , we should see the sparks we ground off , fiery bright against a background of green wheat and green leaves . 
By that time , we should have ground our way to the sea cliffs , and the whirr of our wheel would be lost in the breaking of the waves . 
Very agreeable , too , to go on a chair mending tour . 
, what encouragement would be on us to plait and weave ! No one looks at us while we plait and weave these words . 
, and so over the park ladder , and through the wood , until we came to the Keeper's lodge . 
Then , would , the Keeper be discoverable at his door , in a deep nest of leaves , smoking his pipe . 
Then , on our accosting him in the way of our trade , would he call to Mrs. Keeper , respecting 't'ould clock' in the kitchen . 
Then , should we work and work , until the day gradually turned to dusk , and even until the dusk gradually turned to dark . 
Our task at length accomplished , we should be taken into an enormous servants' hall , and there regaled with beef and bread , and powerful ale . 
Then , feeling lonesome , should we desire upon the whole , that the ash had not been blasted , or that the helper had had the manners not to mention it . 
So should we lie that night at the ancient sign of the Crispin and Crispanus , and rise early next morning to be betimes on tramp again . 
Bricklayers often tramp , in twos and threes , lying by night at their 'lodges , which are scattered all over the country . 
Bricklaying is another of the occupations that can by no means be transacted in rural parts , without the assistance of spectators of as many as can be convened . 
The stock is carried on the head in a basket , and , between the head and the basket , are the trestles on which the stock is displayed at trading times . 
On the hot dusty roads near seaport towns and great rivers , behold the tramping Soldier . 
Much better the tramping Sailor , although his cloth is somewhat too thick for land service . 
Wild flowers grow in abundance on this spot , and it lies high and airy , with a distant river stealing steadily away to the ocean , like a man's life . 
I heard only a single sentence of her uttering , yet it bespoke a talent for modest repartee . 
Later in the season , the whole country side , for miles and miles , will swarm with hopping tramps . 
Many of these hoppers are Irish , but many come from London . 
Most of us come from Dullborough who come from a country town . 
As I left Dullborough in the days when there were no railroads in the land , I left it in a stage coach . 
With this tender remembrance upon me , I was cavalierly shunted back into Dullborough the other day , by train . 
to ransom me , and marry me . 
And first of Timpson's up street . 
I found no such place as Timpson's now no such bricks and rafters , not to mention the name no such edifice on the teeming earth . 
Pickford had come and knocked Timpson's down . 
, he shall know by the expression of my eye , if it catches his , that there is something wrong between us . 
Moreover , I felt that Pickford had no right to come rushing into Dullborough and deprive the town of a public picture . 
He is not Napoleon Bonaparte . 
When he took down the transparent stage coach , he ought to have given the town a transparent van . 
With a gloomy conviction that Pickford is wholly utilitarian and unimaginative , I proceeded on my way . 
I suppose I had a very sympathetic nurse , with a large circle of married acquaintance . 
However that was , as I continued my walk through Dullborough , I found many houses to be solely associated in my mind with this particular interest . 
It was he himself he might formerly have been an old looking young man , or he might now be a young looking old man , but there he was . 
As he brought with him a dawning remembrance that he had had no proprietary interest in those babies , I crossed the road , and accosted him on the subject . 
had happened to a Mrs. What's her name , as once lodged there but he didn't call it to mind , particular . 
Nettled by this phlegmatic conduct , I informed him that I had left the town when I was a child . 
between going away from a place and remaining in it . 
Of course the town had shrunk fearfully , since I was a child there . 
I had entertained the impression that the High street was at least as wide as Regent street , London , or the Italian Boulevard at Paris . 
I found it little better than a lane . 
was so frightened for his sake , that she fainted away . 
To the Theatre , therefore , I repaired for consolation . 
But I found very little , for it was in a bad and declining way . 
Evidently , he was by degrees eating the establishment away to the core , and would soon have sole possession of it . 
No , there was no comfort in the Theatre . 
It was mysteriously gone , like my own youth . 
Unlike my own youth , it might be coming back some day but there was little promise of it . 
As the town was placarded with references to the Dullborough Mechanics' Institution , I thought I would go and look at that establishment next . 
There had been no such thing in the town , in my young day , and it occurred to me that its extreme prosperity might have brought adversity upon the Drama . 
seemed unaccountably bashful about subscribing . 
It was fitted up with a platform , and the usual lecturing tools , including a large black board of a menacing appearance . 
And yet it was ministered to , in a dull and abortive manner , by all who made this feint . 
like story tellers , and delude the young persons into the belief that they were going to be interesting . 
of what a Dustman and a Sailor may come to , when they mend their ways , was presented to me in this same shop window . 
But , the clock that had so degenerated since I saw it last , admonished me that I had stayed here long enough and I resumed my walk . 
I was beginning to have but a poor opinion of Mr. Specks , when he said reflectively , 'And yet there's a something too . 
'Why , of course , you'll remember Lucy Green , he said , after we had talked a little . 
'Of course , said I. 'Whom do you think she married ? said he . 
'Me , said Specks , 'and you shall see her . 
, I saw again , in that little daughter , the little face of the hayfield , unchanged , and it quite touched my foolish heart . 
And in Specks's society I had new occasion to observe what I had before noticed in similar communications among other men . 
But , I did not propound this difficulty to Specks , for no pause in the conversation gave me an occasion . 
, I was in a more charitable mood with Dullborough than I had been all day and yet in my heart I had loved it all day too . 
In the course of those nights , I finished my education in a fair amateur experience of houselessness . 
My principal object being to get through the night , the pursuit of it brought me into sympathetic relations with people who have no other object every night in the year . 
The month was March , and the weather damp , cloudy , and cold . 
The sun not rising before half past five , the night perspective looked sufficiently long at half past twelve which was about my time for confronting it . 
It lasted about two hours . 
If we were very lucky , a policeman's rattle sprang and a fray turned up but , in general , surprisingly little of this diversion was provided . 
But , it was always the case that London , as if in imitation of individual citizens belonging to it , had expiring fits and starts of restlessness . 
As the street experience in the night , so the street experience in the day the common folk who come unexpectedly into a little property , come unexpectedly into a deal of liquor . 
At length these flickering sparks would die away , worn out the last veritable sparks of waking life trailed from some late pieman or hot potato man and London would sink to rest . 
There was need of encouragement on the threshold of the bridge , for the bridge was dreary . 
The wild moon and clouds were as restless as an evil conscience in a tumbled bed , and the very shadow of the immensity of London seemed to lie oppressively upon the river . 
Between the bridge and the two great theatres , there was but the distance of a few hundred paces , so the theatres came next . 
One would think that nothing in them knew itself at such a time but Yorick's skull . 
A dismal cavern of an immense aspect , with the chandelier gone dead like everything else , and nothing visible through mist and fog and space , but tiers of winding sheets . 
A ghost of a watchman , carrying a faint corpse candle , haunted the distant upper gallery and flitted away . 
Methought I felt much as a diver might , at the bottom of the sea . 
Not an inappropriate time either , to linger by that wicked little Debtors' Door shutting tighter than any other door one ever saw which has been Death's Door to so many . 
There was plenty going on at the brewery and the reek , and the smell of grains , and the rattling of the plump dray horses at their mangers , were capital company . 
A very curious disease the Dry Rot in men , and difficult to detect the beginning of . 
It had carried Horace Kinch inside the wall of the old King's Bench prison , and it had carried him out with his feet foremost . 
He was a likely man to look at , in the prime of life , well to do , as clever as he needed to be , and popular among many friends . 
He was suitably married , and had healthy and pretty children . 
But , like some fair looking houses or fair looking ships , he took the Dry Rot . 
When this manifestation of the disease is observed , the observer will usually connect it with a vague impression once formed or received , that the patient was living a little too hard . 
As it is in wood , so it is in men . 
Dry Rot advances at a compound usury quite incalculable . 
A plank is found infected with it , and the whole structure is devoted . 
Thus it had been with the unhappy Horace Kinch , lately buried by a small subscription . 
I was half ashamed to reflect that so could I by night . 
Not only that , but the vast armies of dead would overflow the hills and valleys beyond the city , and would stretch away all round it , God knows how far . 
When a church clock strikes , on houseless ears in the dead of the night , it may be at first mistaken for company and hailed as such . 
in eternal space , the mistake is rectified and the sense of loneliness is profounder . 
Once it was after leaving the Abbey and turning my face north I came to the great steps of St . 
Martin's church as the clock was striking Three . 
We then stood face to face looking at one another , frightened by one another . 
The creature was like a beetle browed hair lipped youth of twenty , and it had a loose bundle of rags on , which it held together with one of its hands . 
Intending to give this ugly object money , I put out my hand to stay it for it recoiled as it whined and snapped and laid my hand upon its shoulder . 
Instantly , it twisted out of its garment , like the young man in the New Testament , and left me standing alone with its rags in my hands . 
Covent garden Market , when it was market morning , was wonderful company . 
There was early coffee to be got about Covent garden Market , and that was more company warm company , too , which was better . 
The remembrance of this man with the pudding remains with me as the remembrance of the most spectral person my houselessness encountered . 
, take out his pudding , stab his pudding , wipe the dagger , and eat his pudding all up . 
He was a man whose figure promised cadaverousness , but who had an excessively red face , though shaped like a horse's . 
On the second occasion of my seeing him , he said huskily to the man of sleep , 'Am I red to night ? 'You are , he uncompromisingly answered . 
Somehow , the pudding seemed an unwholesome pudding after that , and I put myself in its way no more . 
When there was no market , or when I wanted variety , a railway terminus with the morning mails coming in , was remunerative company . 
But like most of the company to be had in this world , it lasted only a very short time . 
, and , finally , the bell would strike up , and the train would come banging in . 
But there were few passengers and little luggage , and everything scuttled away with the greatest expedition . 
for tossing purchase at quite imaginary dogs , and giving themselves and every devoted creature associated with them a most extraordinary amount of unnecessary trouble . 
And so by faster and faster degrees , until the last degrees were very fast , the day came , and I was tired and could sleep . 
I began , as was natural , with the Chambers I had just left . 
stands in dark ambush , half open , and half shut , all day . 
The solicitor's apartments are three in number consisting of a slice , a cell , and a wedge . 
Mrs. Sweeney is one of the race of professed laundresses , and is the compiler of a remarkable manuscript volume entitled 'Mrs . 
Sweeney's Book , from which much curious statistical information may be gathered respecting the high prices and small uses of soda , soap , sand , firewood , and other such articles . 
, which I can only refer to her being one of the fraternity , yet not competing with it . 
Indeed , I look upon Gray's Inn generally as one of the most depressing institutions in brick and mortar , known to the children of men . 
to see where he walked . 
At one period of my uncommercial career I much frequented another set of chambers in Gray's Inn square . 
They were what is familiarly called 'a top set , and all the eatables and drinkables introduced into them acquired a flavour of Cockloft . 
This , however , was not the most curious feature of those chambers that , consisted in the profound conviction entertained by my esteemed friend Parkle that they were clean . 
Whether it was an inborn hallucination , or whether it was imparted to him by Mrs. Miggot the laundress , I never could ascertain . 
But , I believe he would have gone to the stake upon the question . 
It was the first large circulation I had . 
Yet Parkle lived in that top set years , bound body and soul to the superstition that they were clean . 
He used to say , when congratulated upon them , 'Well , they are not like chambers in one respect , you know they are clean . 
Concurrently , he had an idea which he could never explain , that Mrs. Miggot was in some way connected with the Church . 
To my intimacy with that top set , I am indebted for three of my liveliest personal impressions of the loneliness of life in chambers . 
They shall follow here , in order first , second , and third . 
My Gray's Inn friend , on a time , hurt one of his legs , and it became seriously inflamed . 
, I passed him and went on . 
been endeavouring for some hours to apply leeches to his leg , and as yet had only got on two out of twenty . 
After a while our united efforts prevailed , and , when the leeches came off and had recovered their spirits , we carefully tied them up in a decanter . 
For three or four years , Parkle rather knew of him than knew him , but after that for Englishmen short pause of consideration , they began to speak . 
Parkle exchanged words with him in his private character only , and knew nothing of his business ways , or means . 
He was a man a good deal about town , but always alone . 
We used to remark to one another , that although we often encountered him in theatres , concert rooms , and similar public places , he was always alone . 
As he never went out of town , Parkle said , 'Oh indeed ! At last ? 'Yes , says he , 'at last . 
For what is a man to do ? London is so small ! If you go West , you come to Hounslow . 
If you go East , you come to Bow . 
If you go South , there's Brixton or Norwood . 
If you go North , you can't get rid of Barnet . 
So , Parkle laughed and consented , and the man went out of town . 
, H. Parkle , Esq . 
This was an end of Parkle's occupancy of chambers . 
He went into lodgings immediately . 
Every day he dined at his club and drank his bottle or two of port wine , and every night came home to the Temple and went to bed in his lonely chambers . 
When he was afterwards discovered , dead , it was clearly established by the marks of his hands about the room that he must have done so . 
Thus , those two so different games of life and death were played out together , blindfolded , in the two sets of chambers . 
Such are the occurrences , which , coming to my knowledge , imbued me long ago with a strong sense of the loneliness of chambers . 
Mr. Testator took a set of chambers in Lyons Inn when he had but very scanty furniture for his bedroom , and none for his sitting room . 
He had lived some wintry months in this condition , and had found it very bare and cold . 
One night , past midnight , when he sat writing and still had writing to do that must be done before he went to bed , he found himself out of coals . 
After groping here and there among low doors to no purpose , Mr. Testator at length came to a door with a rusty padlock which his key fitted . 
Getting the door open with much trouble , and looking in , he found , no coals , but a confused pile of furniture . 
Alarmed by this intrusion on another man's property , he locked the door again , found his own cellar , filled his scuttle , and returned up stairs . 
He particularly wanted a table to write at , and a table expressly made to be written at , had been the piece of furniture in the foreground of the heap . 
He did so , that night . 
By that time , he felt he was 'in furniture stepped in so far , as that it could be no worse to borrow it all . 
Consequently , he borrowed it all , and locked up the cellar for good . 
He had always locked it , after every visit . 
He had carried up every separate article in the dead of the night , and , at the best , had felt as wicked as a Resurrection Man . 
Every article was blue and furry when brought into his rooms , and he had had , in a murderous and guilty sort of way , to polish it up while London slept . 
Mr. Testator lived in his furnished chambers two or three years , or more , and gradually lulled himself into the opinion that the furniture was his own . 
He said , 'I ask your pardon , but can you tell me and stopped his eyes resting on some object within the chambers . 
'Can I tell you what ? asked Mr. Testator , noting his stoppage with quick alarm . 
He was not unsteady with gin , either in his speech or carriage but he was stiff with gin in both particulars . 
the possible consequences of what he had done in recklessness and hardihood , flashed upon him in their fulness for the first time . 
Allow me to entreat that , without temper , without even natural irritation on your part , we may have a little 'Drop of something to drink , interposed the stranger . 
Mr. Testator had intended to say , 'a little quiet conversation , but with great relief of mind adopted the amendment . 
He produced a decanter of gin , and was bustling about for hot water and sugar , when he found that his visitor had already drunk half of the decanter's contents . 
With hot water and sugar the visitor drank the remainder before he had been an hour in the chambers by the chimes of the church of St . 
replied with much feeling , 'Deeply anxious , poor soul , but otherwise well . 
The visitor thereupon turned and went away , and fell twice in going down stairs . 
From that hour he was never heard of . 
This was the story , received with the furniture and held to be as substantial , by its second possessor in an upper set of chambers in grim Lyons Inn . 
It is to be remarked of chambers in general , that they must have been built for chambers , to have the right kind of loneliness . 
You may make a great dwelling house very lonely , but isolating suites of rooms and calling them chambers , but you cannot make the true kind of loneliness . 
In dwelling houses , there have been family festivals children have grown in them , girls have bloomed into women in them , courtships and marriages have taken place in them . 
True chambers never were young , childish , maidenly never had dolls in them , or rocking horses , or christenings , or betrothals , or little coffins . 
But , the many waters of life did run musical in those dry channels once among the Inns , never . 
Again , it is not denied that you may be robbed elsewhere . 
Elsewhere you may have for money dishonesty , drunkenness , dirt , laziness , and profound incapacity . 
Mrs. Sweeney is beyond the reach of individual art . 
It requires the united efforts of several men to ensure that great result , and it is only developed in perfection under an Honourable Society and in an Inn of Court . 
I never was in Robinson Crusoe's Island , yet I frequently return there . 
So is the cave where the flaring eyes of the old goat made such a goblin appearance in the dark . 
, I suspect we should find our nurses responsible for most of the dark corners we are forced to go back to , against our wills . 
, was a certain Captain Murderer . 
This wretch must have been an off shoot of the Blue Beard family , but I had no suspicion of the consanguinity in those times . 
His warning name would seem to have awakened no general prejudice against him , for he was admitted into the best society and possessed immense wealth . 
Captain Murderer's mission was matrimony , and the gratification of a cannibal appetite with tender brides . 
For , the spot WOULD come there , though every horse was milk white when Captain Murderer bought him . 
And the spot was young bride's blood . 
When the bride saw Captain Murderer produce the golden rolling pin and silver pie board , she remembered this , and turned up her laced silk sleeves to make a pie . 
Then said the lovely bride , 'Dear Captain Murderer , what pie is this to be ? He replied , 'A meat pie . 
Then said the lovely bride , 'Dear Captain Murderer , I see no meat . 
The Captain humorously retorted , 'Look in the glass . 
Captain Murderer went on in this way , prospering exceedingly , until he came to choose a bride from two twin sisters , and at first didn't know which to choose . 
For , though one was fair and the other dark , they were both equally beautiful . 
But the fair twin loved him , and the dark twin hated him , so he chose the fair one . 
Next day she listened all day , and heard him make his joke about the house lamb . 
Now , the dark twin had had her suspicions much increased by the filing of the Captain's teeth , and again by the house lamb joke . 
Putting all things together when he gave out that her sister was dead , she divined the truth , and determined to be revenged . 
The Captain took it as a compliment , and made a polite answer , and the marriage was quickly arranged . 
On the night before it , the bride again climbed to his window , and again saw him having his teeth filed sharp . 
Next day they went to church in a coach and twelve , and were married . 
until the whole were dead , and then they galloped away . 
This female bard may she have been repaid my debt of obligation to her in the matter of nightmares and perspirations ! reappears in my memory as the daughter of a shipwright . 
Her name was Mercy , though she had none on me . 
There was something of a shipbuilding flavour in the following story . 
As it always recurs to me in a vague association with calomel pills , I believe it to have been reserved for dull nights when I was low with medicine . 
There was once a shipwright , and he wrought in a Government Yard , and his name was Chips . 
And his father's name before him was Chips , and HIS father's name before HIM was Chips , and they were all Chipses . 
And whenever he winked his eyes , showers of blue sparks came out , and his eyelashes made a clattering like flints and steels striking lights . 
So , Chips answered never a word , but went on with his work . 
'What are you doing , Chips ? said the rat that could speak . 
'I am putting in new planks where you and your gang have eaten old away , said Chips . 
'But we'll eat them too , said the rat that could speak 'and we'll let in the water and drown the crew , and we'll eat them too . 
Chips , being only a shipwright , and not a Man of war's man , said , 'You are welcome to it . 
So , the Devil said , 'I see what you are looking at , Chips . 
You had better strike the bargain . 
Your father before you was well acquainted with them , and so were your grandfather and great grandfather before him . 
Says Chips , 'I like the copper , and I like the nails , and I don't mind the pot , but I don't like the rat . 
Says the Devil , fiercely , 'You can't have the metal without him and HE'S a curiosity . 
But , a terrible thing happened next day . 
And they could all speak to one another , and he understood what they said . 
And they got into his lodging , and into his bed , and into his teapot , and into his beer , and into his boots . 
You may believe that all this was very terrible to Chips but even all this was not the worst . 
He knew besides , what the rats were doing , wherever they were . 
At last , he was voted mad , and lost his work in the Yard , and could get no other work . 
But , King George wanted men , so before very long he got pressed for a sailor . 
And so he was taken off in a boat one evening to his ship , lying at Spithead , ready to sail . 
And so the first thing he made out in her as he got near her , was the figure head of the old Seventy four , where he had seen the Devil . 
The ship was bound for the Indies and if you don't know where that is , you ought to it , and angels will never love you . 
The ship set sail that very night , and she sailed , and sailed , and sailed . 
Nothing ever equalled his terrors . 
At last , one day he asked leave to speak to the Admiral . 
Chips went down on his knees in the Great State Cabin . 
'Your Honour no they are nibbling us away . 
'They ? 'Your Honour , them dreadful rats . 
'My poor fellow , you are a case for the doctor . 
Sentry , take care of this man ! So , he was bled and he was blistered , and he was this and that , for six whole days and nights . 
So , then he again asked leave to speak to the Admiral . 
He went down on his knees in the Great State Cabin . 
And there was a deal of seaweed on the remains . 
This pretence was , that all her ghost stories had occurred to her own relations . 
Politeness towards a meritorious family , therefore , forbade my doubting them , and they acquired an air of authentication that impaired my digestive powers for life . 
were buried under the glass case , whereas she required them to be interred , with every Undertaking solemnity up to twenty four pound ten , in another particular place . 
Such are a few of the uncommercial journeys that I was forced to make , against my will , when I was very young and unreasoning . 
The retreat into which I have withdrawn myself , is Bond street . 
From this lonely spot I make pilgrimages into the surrounding wilderness , and traverse extensive tracts of the Great Desert . 
My lodgings are at a hatter's my own hatter's . 
His young man alone remains and remains alone in the shop . 
Happily for himself and for his country the young man is a Volunteer most happily for himself , or I think he would become the prey of a settled melancholy . 
For , to live surrounded by human hats , and alienated from human heads to fit them on , is surely a great endurance . 
, is resigned , and uncomplaining . 
On a Saturday , when he closes early and gets his Knickerbockers on , he is even cheerful . 
I am gratefully particular in this reference to him , because he is my companion through many peaceful hours . 
My hatter has a desk up certain steps behind his counter , enclosed like the clerk's desk at Church . 
I shut myself into this place of seclusion , after breakfast , and meditate . 
At such times , I observe the young man loading an imaginary rifle with the greatest precision , and maintaining a most galling and destructive fire upon the national enemy . 
I thank him publicly for his companionship and his patriotism . 
The simple character of my life , and the calm nature of the scenes by which I am surrounded , occasion me to rise early . 
I go forth in my slippers , and promenade the pavement . 
On the crowded sea shore , the great demand for milk , combined with the strong local temptation of chalk , would betray itself in the lowered quality of the article . 
In Arcadian London I derive it from the cow . 
The Arcadian simplicity of the metropolis altogether , and the primitive ways into which it has fallen in this autumnal Golden Age , make it entirely new to me . 
Within a few hundred yards of my retreat , is the house of a friend who maintains a most sumptuous butler . 
I never , until yesterday , saw that butler out of superfine black broadcloth . 
with the appearance of having any mind for anything but the glory of his master and his master's friends . 
He felt that we had formerly met in another state of existence , and that we were translated into a new sphere . 
Wisely and well , he passed me without recognition . 
The meagre and mouldy old man is her husband , and the pair have a dejected consciousness that they are not justified in appearing on the surface of the earth . 
They come out of some hole when London empties itself , and go in again when it fills . 
I saw them arrive on the evening when I myself took possession , and they arrived with the flat pint of beer , and their bed in a bundle . 
The old man is a weak old man , and appeared to me to get the bed down the kitchen stairs by tumbling down with and upon it . 
, and in the shadowy hours Miss Klem became perceptible on the door step , wrestling with a bed in a bundle . 
Where she made it up for the night I cannot positively state , but , I think , in a sink . 
I know that with the instinct of a reptile or an insect , she stowed it and herself away in deep obscurity . 
In the Klem family , I have noticed another remarkable gift of nature , and that is a power they possess of converting everything into flue . 
Mrs. Klem has no idea of my name as to Mr. Klem he has no idea of anything and only knows me as her good gentleman . 
I find this to be a generic custom . 
For , I meant to have observed before now , that in its Arcadian time all my part of London is indistinctly pervaded by the Klem species . 
They creep about with beds , and go to bed in miles of deserted houses . 
In the Burlington Arcade , I observe , with peculiar pleasure , a primitive state of manners to have superseded the baneful influences of ultra civilisation . 
Nothing can surpass the innocence of the ladies' shoe shops , the artificial flower repositories , and the head dress depots . 
The children of these virtuous people exchange familiarities in the Arcade , and temper the asperity of the two tall beadles . 
Their youthful prattle blends in an unwonted manner with the harmonious shade of the scene , and the general effect is , as of the voices of birds in a grove . 
In this happy restoration of the golden time , it has been my privilege even to see the bigger beadle's wife . 
She brought him his dinner in a basin , and he ate it in his arm chair , and afterwards fell asleep like a satiated child . 
, condescend a little , as they drowsily bide or recall their turn for chasing the ebbing Neptune on the ribbed sea sand . 
Hunt and Roskell's , the jewellers , all things are absent but the precious stones , and the gold and silver , and the soldierly pensioner at the door with his decorated breast . 
In the places of business of the great tailors , the cheval glasses are dim and dusty for lack of being looked into . 
The hotels in Brook street have no one in them , and the staffs of servants stare disconsolately for next season out of all the windows . 
Among these tranquillising objects , it is my delight to walk and meditate . 
Soothed by the repose around me , I wander insensibly to considerable distances , and guide myself back by the stars . 
Then , does it appear to me that in this age three things are clamorously required of Man in the miscellaneous thoroughfares of the metropolis . 
Firstly , that he have his boots cleaned . 
Secondly , that he eat a penny ice . 
Thirdly , that he get himself photographed . 
It is my impression that much of its serene and peaceful character is attributable to the absence of customary Talk . 
, would affect me in a marvellously disagreeable way why may not too much Talk ? I don't see or hear the Ozone I don't see or hear the Talk . 
, and gloat upon the ruins of Talk . 
It is , as it were , an inexpensive Agapemone nobody's speculation everybody's profit . 
the not having much to do , is , the abounding of Love . 
The Klem species are incapable of the softer emotions probably , in that low nomadic race , the softer emotions have all degenerated into flue . 
But , with this exception , all the sharers of my retreat make love . 
I have mentioned Saville row . 
We all know the Doctor's servant . 
In the prosaic season , he has distinctly the appearance of a man conscious of money in the savings bank , and taking his stand on his respectability with both feet . 
At that time it is as impossible to associate him with relaxation , or any human weakness , as it is to meet his eye without feeling guilty of indisposition . 
I have seen him trying the piano in the Doctor's drawing room with his forefinger , and have heard him humming tunes in praise of lovely woman . 
I have seen him seated on a fire engine , and going to a fire . 
Is this the Golden Age revived , or Iron London ? The Dentist's servant . 
He takes them all on trust . 
In secluded corners of the place of my seclusion , there are little shops withdrawn from public curiosity , and never two together , where servants' perquisites are bought . 
I have been told that in sterner times loving correspondence , otherwise interdicted , may be maintained by letter through the agency of some of these useful establishments . 
In the Arcadian autumn , no such device is necessary . 
Everybody loves , and openly and blamelessly loves . 
My landlord's young man loves the whole of one side of the way of Old Bond street , and is beloved several doors up New Bond street besides . 
I never look out of window but I see kissing of hands going on all around me . 
There is nothing else to do but love and what there is to do , is done . 
In unison with this pursuit , a chaste simplicity obtains in the domestic habits of Arcadia . 
Its few scattered people dine early , live moderately , sup socially , and sleep soundly . 
A happy Golden Age , and a serene tranquillity . 
Charming picture , but it will fade . 
It is strictly a true story . 
I am newly arrived one summer evening , in a certain small town on the Mediterranean . 
I have had my dinner at the inn , and I and the mosquitoes are coming out into the streets together . 
We are in the inn yard . 
I gave a commission to 'him , and I have been inquiring about him . 
I have carried the commission about Italy several months . 
The sirocco has been blowing all day , and it is a hot unwholesome evening with no cool sea breeze . 
Mosquitoes and fire flies are lively enough , but most other creatures are faint . 
The coquettish airs of pretty young women in the tiniest and wickedest of dolls' straw hats , who lean out at opened lattice blinds , are almost the only airs stirring . 
, sit on the footway leaning against house walls . 
Everybody who has come for water to the fountain , stays there , and seems incapable of any such energetic idea as going home . 
Vespers are over , though not so long but that I can smell the heavy resinous incense as I pass the church . 
No man seems to be at work , save the coppersmith . 
In an Italian town he is always at work , and always thumping in the deadliest manner . 
I touch my hat to the figure in the cloak , and pass in , and draw a stool to a little table . 
is lighted , but the place is empty . 
The figure in the cloak has followed me in , and stands before me . 
'The master ? 'At your service , sir . 
'Please to give me a glass of the wine of the country . 
He turns to a little counter , to get it . 
As his striking face is pale , and his action is evidently that of an enfeebled man , I remark that I fear he has been ill . 
It is not much , he courteously and gravely answers , though bad while it lasts the fever . 
Do you recollect ? and I mentioned the name of my generous countryman . 
He was a political offender , having been concerned in the then last rising , and was sentenced to imprisonment for life . 
That he would have died in his chains , is certain , but for the circumstance that the Englishman happened to visit his prison . 
It was one of the vile old prisons of Italy , and a part of it was below the waters of the harbour . 
Its condition was insufferably foul , and a stranger could hardly breathe in it , or see in it with the aid of a torch . 
'Recommended , that is to say , for death ? 'Excuse me particularly recommended , was again the answer . 
'He has a bad tumour in his neck , no doubt occasioned by the hardship of his miserable life . 
If he continues to be neglected , and he remains where he is , it will kill him . 
'Excuse me , I can do nothing . 
He was an Englishman of an extraordinarily tender heart , and he could not bear the picture . 
He went back to the prison grate went back again and again , and talked to the man and cheered him . 
It look a long time , but the Englishman's station , personal character , and steadiness of purpose , wore out opposition so far , and that grace was at last accorded . 
Through the bars , when he could thus get light upon the tumour , the Englishman lanced it , and it did well , and healed . 
As it was , nothing could have been more difficult . 
Italian authorities , and English authorities who had interest with them , alike assured the Englishman that his object was hopeless . 
He met with nothing but evasion , refusal , and ridicule . 
His political prisoner became a joke in the place . 
a courage very uncommon among us he had not the least fear of being considered a bore , in a good humane cause . 
So he went on persistently trying , and trying , and trying , to get Giovanni Carlavero out . 
That prisoner had been rigorously re chained , after the tumour operation , and it was not likely that his miserable life could last very long . 
'Give me a hundred pounds to obtain Carlavero's release . 
I think I can get him a pardon , with that money . 
The Englishman decided to hazard the hundred pounds . 
He did so , and heard not another word of the matter . 
For half a year and more , the Advocate made no sign , and never once 'took on' in any way , to have the subject on his mind . 
The Englishman was then obliged to change his residence to another and more famous town in the North of Italy . 
He parted from the poor prisoner with a sorrowful heart , as from a doomed man for whom there was no release but Death . 
The Englishman lived in his new place of abode another half year and more , and had no tidings of the wretched prisoner . 
At length , one day , he received from the Advocate a cool , concise , mysterious note , to this effect . 
'If you still wish to bestow that benefit upon the man in whom you were once interested , send me fifty pounds more , and I think it can be ensured . 
Now , the Englishman had long settled in his mind that the Advocate was a heartless sharper , who had preyed upon his credulity and his interest in an unfortunate sufferer . 
He lived outside the city gates , some mile or two from the post office , and was accustomed to walk into the city with his letters and post them himself . 
As he drew nearer and nearer to the city where he was to post the letter , he became very uneasy in his mind . 
He resolved to risk it . 
Without doubt , GOD has recompensed him for the resolution . 
He went to the banker's , and got a bill for the amount , and enclosed it in a letter to the Advocate that I wish I could have seen . 
If he did otherwise no good could ever come of it , and it would lie heavy on his soul one day . 
We may meet some day , and then I may tell you what you want to know not here , and now . 
But , the two never did meet again . 
He was much watched and suspected , he said , and had had enough to do to keep himself out of trouble . 
By degrees he became so , and tranquilly walked back with me to the hotel . 
I see him now , in the bright sunshine , tears of gratitude in his eyes , proudly inviting my attention to this corpulent bottle . 
And now , what disquiet of mind this dearly beloved and highly treasured Bottle began to cost me , no man knows . 
It was my precious charge through a long tour , and , for hundreds of miles , I never had it off my mind by day or by night . 
Over bad roads and they were many I clung to it with affectionate desperation . 
Up mountains , I looked in at it and saw it helplessly tilting over on its back , with terror . 
The Imp of the same name , except that his associations were all evil and these associations were all good , would have been a less troublesome travelling companion . 
I might have served Mr. Cruikshank as a subject for a new illustration of the miseries of the Bottle . 
The National Temperance Society might have made a powerful Tract of me . 
The suspicions that attached to this innocent Bottle , greatly aggravated my difficulties . 
It was like the apple pie in the child's book . 
Parma pouted at it , Modena mocked it , Tuscany tackled it , Naples nibbled it , Rome refused it , Austria accused it , Soldiers suspected it , Jesuits jobbed it . 
Fifty times a day , I got down to harangue an infuriated soldiery about the Bottle . 
Under all discouragements , however , I stuck to my Bottle , and held firm to my resolution that every drop of its contents should reach the Bottle's destination . 
The latter refinement cost me a separate heap of troubles on its own separate account . 
It raised important functionaries out of their beds , in the dead of night . 
It was characteristic that while this innocent Bottle had such immense difficulty in getting from little town to town , Signor Mazzini and the fiery cross were traversing Italy from end to end . 
Still , I stuck to my Bottle , like any fine old English gentleman all of the olden time . 
in my first determination that my countryman should have it delivered to him intact , as the man whom he had so nobly restored to life and liberty had delivered it to me . 
If ever I had been obstinate in my days and I may have been , say , once or twice I was obstinate about the Bottle . 
But , I made it a rule always to keep a pocket full of small coin at its service , and never to be out of temper in its cause . 
Thus , I and the Bottle made our way . 
Once we had a break down rather a bad break down , on a steep high place with the sea below us , on a tempestuous evening when it blew great guns . 
We were driving four wild horses abreast , Southern fashion , and there was some little difficulty in stopping them . 
A blessed Bottle with a charmed existence , he took no hurt , and we repaired damage , and went on triumphant . 
A thousand representations were made to me that the Bottle must be left at this place , or that , and called for again . 
I never yielded to one of them , and never parted from the Bottle , on any pretence , consideration , threat , or entreaty . 
I had no faith in any official receipt for the Bottle , and nothing would induce me to accept one . 
These unmanageable politics at last brought me and the Bottle , still triumphant , to Genoa . 
While the Bottle was on his voyage to England , I read the Shipping Intelligence as anxiously as if I had been an underwriter . 
There was some stormy weather after I myself had got to England by way of Switzerland and France , and my mind greatly misgave me that the Bottle might be wrecked . 
And the Englishman told me , with much emotion in his face and voice , that he had never tasted wine that seemed to him so sweet and sound . 
And long afterwards , the Bottle graced his table . 
CHAPTER XVIII THE CALAIS NIGHT MAIL It is an unsettled question with me whether I shall leave Calais something handsome in my will , or whether I shall leave it my malediction . 
I hate it so much , and yet I am always so very glad to see it , that I am in a state of constant indecision on this subject . 
Times have changed , and now I enter Calais self reliant and rational . 
Even when it can no longer quite conceal itself in its muddy dock , it has an evil way of falling off , has Calais , which is more hopeless than its invisibility . 
It has a last dip and slide in its character , has Calais , to be especially commanded to the infernal gods . 
I particularly detest Dover for the self complacency with which it goes to bed . 
with a more brilliant display of lamp and candle than any other town . 
I know it is a good house to stay at , and I don't want the fact insisted upon in all its warm bright windows at such an hour . 
Beshrew the Warden likewise , for obstructing that corner , and making the wind so angry as it rushes round . 
All its noises smack of taunting praises of the land , and dispraises of the gloomy sea , and of me for going on it . 
The drums upon the heights have gone to bed , or I know they would rattle taunts against me for having my unsteady footing on this slippery deck . 
The many gas eyes of the Marine Parade twinkle in an offensive manner , as if with derision . 
The distant dogs of Dover bark at me in my misshapen wrappers , as if I were Richard the Third . 
A screech , a bell , and two red eyes come gliding down the Admiralty Pier with a smoothness of motion rendered more smooth by the heaving of the boat . 
The sea makes noises against the pier , as if several hippopotami were lapping at it , and were prevented by circumstances over which they had no control from drinking peaceably . 
We , the boat , become violently agitated rumble , hum , scream , roar , and establish an immense family washing day at each paddle box . 
Then the South Foreland lights begin to hiccup at us in a way that bodes no good . 
It is at about this period that my detestation of Calais knows no bounds . 
Inwardly I resolve afresh that I never will forgive that hated town . 
I have done so before , many times , but that is past . 
Let me register a vow . 
Implacable animosity to Calais everm that was an awkward sea , and the funnel seems of my opinion , for it gives a complaining roar . 
A general howling , whistling , flopping , gurgling , and scooping , I am aware of , and a general knocking about of Nature but the impressions I receive are very vague . 
In a sweet faint temper , something like the smell of damaged oranges , I think I should feel languidly benevolent if I had time . 
I have not time , because I am under a curious compulsion to occupy myself with the Irish melodies . 
'Rich and rare were the gems she wore , is the particular melody to which I find myself devoted . 
I sing it to myself in the most charming manner and with the greatest expression . 
, and they dance to the self same time and tune as the trained steed , Black Raven . 
in his first gale of wind . 
Sentiments of forgiveness of Calais , not to say of attachment to Calais , begin to expand my bosom . 
I have weak notions that I will stay there a day or two on my way back . 
a very agreeable place indeed rather hilly than otherwise . 
No article liable to local duty have I with me , Monsieur l'Officier de l'Octroi , unless the overflowing of a breast devoted to your charming town should be in that wise chargeable . 
I am yours e tout jamais for the whole of ever . 
I was not fully aware of it on the other side , but I meant Dover . 
Ding , ding ! To the carriages , gentlemen the travellers . 
are soon asleep , and then the bird and I have it all to ourselves . 
, he stands in such a whirlwind that I grip him fast by the collar , and feel it next to manslaughter to let him go . 
, while the next principal female character took the money , and the Young Saint John disported himself upside down on the platform . 
Therefore , in my different way I follow the good example . 
That is to say , Notre Dame was before me , but there was a large open space between us . 
Only the obscene little Morgue , slinking on the brink of the river and soon to come down , was left there , looking mortally ashamed of itself , and supremely wicked . 
I had but glanced at this old acquaintance , when I beheld an airy procession coming round in front of Notre Dame , past the great hospital . 
It had something of a Masaniello look , with fluttering striped curtains in the midst of it , and it came dancing round the cathedral in the liveliest manner . 
Having never before chanced upon this initiation , I constituted myself a Blouse likewise , and ran into the Morgue with the rest . 
It was a very muddy day , and we took in a quantity of mire with us , and the procession coming in upon our heels brought a quantity more . 
It set the litter down in the midst of the Morgue , and then two Custodians proclaimed aloud that we were all 'invited' to go out . 
This invitation was rendered the more pressing , if not the more flattering , by our being shoved out , and the folding gates being barred upon us . 
We had been excited in the highest degree by seeing the Custodians pull off their coats and tuck up their shirt sleeves , as the procession came along . 
It looked so interestingly like business . 
Shut out in the muddy street , we now became quite ravenous to know all about it . 
Imperceptibly , it came to be known that Monsieur the tall and sallow mason yonder , was acquainted with the facts . 
His age ? Another wave surged up against the tall and sallow mason , and our wave swept on and broke , and he was any age from sixty five to ninety . 
Perhaps they were waiting dinner for him even now ? We liked that . 
Such of us as had pocket handkerchiefs took a slow , intense , protracted wipe at our noses , and then crammed our handkerchiefs into the breast of our blouses . 
Others of us who had no handkerchiefs administered a similar relief to our overwrought minds , by means of prolonged smears or wipes of our mouths on our sleeves . 
Meantime , all faces were turned towards the building , and we men waited with a fixed and stern resolution for the most part with folded arms . 
Surely , it was the only public French sight these uncommercial eyes had seen , at which the expectant people did not form EN QUEUE . 
Now , they turned , and we rushed ! Great pressure , and a scream or two from the front . 
Then a laugh or two , some expressions of disappointment , and a slackening of the pressure and subsidence of the struggle . 
'But what would you have ? the Custodian reasonably argues , as he looks out at his little door . 
'Patience , patience ! We make his toilette , gentlemen . 
He will be exposed presently . 
It is necessary to proceed according to rule . 
His toilette is not made all at a blow . 
He will be exposed in good time , gentlemen , in good time . 
And so retires , smoking , with a wave of his sleeveless arm towards the window , importing , 'Entertain yourselves in the meanwhile with the other curiosities . 
Fortunately the Museum is not empty to day . 
Who would have thought of public fickleness even at the Morgue ? But there it was , on that occasion . 
assassinatingly knowing as to the one of the front , that it was hard to think the three had never come together in their lives , and were only chance companions after death . 
Whether or no this was the general , as it was the uncommercial , fancy , it is not to be disputed that the group had drawn exceedingly within ten minutes . 
Custodian re enters from his door . 
'Again once , gentlemen , you are invited No further invitation necessary . 
Ready dash into the street . 
This time , the interest was grown too hot to admit of toleration of the boys on the stone posts . 
The homicidal white lead worker made a pounce upon one boy who was hoisting himself up , and brought him to earth amidst general commendation . 
Closely stowed as we were , we yet formed into groups groups of conversation , without separation from the mass to discuss the old man . 
Rivals of the tall and sallow mason sprang into being , and here again was popular inconstancy . 
Again the hinges creaked , and we rushed . 
Disorderly pressure for some time ensued before the uncommercial unit got figured into the front row of the sum . 
It was strange to see so much heat and uproar seething about one poor spare , white haired old man , quiet for evermore . 
The differences of expression were not many . 
And there was a much more general , purposeless , vacant staring at it like looking at waxwork , without a catalogue , and not knowing what to make of it . 
But all these expressions concurred in possessing the one underlying expression of LOOKING AT SOMETHING THAT COULD NOT RETURN A LOOK . 
of the Custodian smoking at his door , and answering questions , between puffs , with a certain placid meritorious air of not being proud , though high in office . 
Pacing presently round the garden of the Tower of St . 
Dabbled all about her , was the water and the broken ice that had dropped from her dress , and had splashed as she was got out . 
The thing happened , say five and twenty years ago . 
I was a modest young uncommercial then , and timid and inexperienced . 
Many suns and winds have browned me in the line , but those were my pale days . 
I think the Beadle must have seen me going in or coming out , and must have observed that I tottered under the weight of my grandeur . 
Be this as it may , the Beadle did what Melancholy did to the youth in Gray's Elegy he marked me for his own . 
And the way in which the Beadle did it , was this he summoned me as a Juryman on his Coroner's Inquests . 
I roused my energies , and the next time the wily Beadle summoned me , I went . 
The Beadle was the blankest Beadle I have ever looked on when I answered to my name and his discomfiture gave me courage to go through with it . 
We were impanelled to inquire concerning the death of a very little mite of a child . 
It was the old miserable story . 
We must commit her on one of the two issues . 
The Inquest came off in the parish workhouse , and I have yet a lively impression that I was unanimously received by my brother Jurymen as a brother of the utmost conceivable insignificance . 
Also , that before we began , a broker who had lately cheated me fearfully in the matter of a pair of card tables , was for the utmost rigour of the law . 
The case was then stated to us by the Coroner , and then we went down stairs led by the plotting Beadle to view the body . 
It had been opened , and neatly sewn up , and regarded from that point of view , it looked like a stuffed creature . 
There was nothing repellent about the poor piece of innocence , and it demanded a mere form of looking at . 
, and with what a cruel pertinacity that piece of Virtue spun her thread of evidence double , by intertwisting it with the sternest thread of construction . 
, cast a look of strong encouragement in my direction . 
When the agonised girl had made those final protestations , I had seen her face , and it was in unison with her distracted heartbroken voice , and it was very moving . 
But it came to me in my sleep that night , and I selfishly dismissed it in the most efficient way I could think of . 
I regard this as a very notable uncommercial experience , because this good came of a Beadle . 
It was the having to leave off , to wish the owner of a certain bright face that looked in at my door , 'many happy returns of the day . 
I can very well remember being taken out to visit some peach faced creature in a blue sash , and shoes to correspond , whose life I supposed to consist entirely of birthdays . 
Upon seed cake , sweet wine , and shining presents , that glorified young person seemed to me to be exclusively reared . 
knowledge leads me to believe and were regaled with saccharine substances and liquids , until it was time to part . 
A bitter powder was administered to me next morning , and I was wretched . 
When I regarded my birthday as a graceful achievement of my own , a monument of my perseverance , independence , and good sense , redounding greatly to my honour . 
This was at about the period when Olympia Squires became involved in the anniversary . 
Truth is sacred , and the visions are crowned by a shining white beaver bonnet , impossibly suggestive of a little feminine postboy . 
My memory presents a birthday when Olympia and I were taken by an unfeeling relative some cruel uncle , or the like to a slow torture called an Orrery . 
It was a venerable and a shabby Orrery , at least one thousand stars and twenty five comets behind the age . 
Nevertheless , it was awful . 
, 'the lights are about to be put out , but there is not the slightest cause for alarm , it was very alarming . 
Then the planets and stars began . 
Sometimes they wouldn't come on , sometimes they wouldn't go off , sometimes they had holes in them , and mostly they didn't seem to be good likenesses . 
were discovered with exhausted countenances , screwing their knuckles into their eyes , or clutching their heads of hair . 
A pretty birthday speech when Dr . 
It was now that Globson , Bully no more , sought me out in the playground . 
he now felt this blow to have been an error of judgment , and that he wished to apologise for the same . 
This handsome proposal I modestly declined , and he then embraced me , and we walked away conversing . 
Seventeen , eighteen , nineteen , twenty and then with the waning months came an ever augmenting sense of the dignity of twenty one . 
Heaven knows I had nothing to 'come into , save the bare birthday , and yet I esteemed it as a great possession . 
I gave a party on the occasion . 
It is unnecessary to name Her , more particularly She was older than I , and had pervaded every chink and crevice of my mind for three or four years . 
I had never had the remotest intention of sending any of those letters but to write them , and after a few days tear them up , had been a sublime occupation . 
Sometimes , I had begun 'Honoured Madam . 
As thus 'For Mrs. Onowenever , these lines when the hand that traces them shall be far away . 
I could not bear the daily torture of hopelessly loving the dear one whom I will not name . 
Broiling on the coast of Africa , or congealing on the shores of Greenland , I am far far better there than here . 
'If I ever emerge from obscurity , and my name is ever heralded by Fame , it will be for her dear sake . 
If I ever amass Gold , it will be to pour it at her feet . 
I was about to pursue the statement that on my twenty first birthday I gave a party , and She was there . 
It was a beautiful party . 
that I had ever seen before . 
Everything was hired , and the mercenaries in attendance were profound strangers to me . 
Behind a door , in the crumby part of the night when wine glasses were to be found in unexpected spots , I spoke to Her spoke out to Her . 
What passed , I cannot as a man of honour reveal . 
dispersed , I issued forth , with a dissipated scorner , and , as I mentioned expressly to him , 'sought oblivion . 
is capable of being made up in another form for birthday use . 
Anybody's long lost brother will do ill to turn up on a birthday . 
If I had a long lost brother I should know beforehand that he would prove a tremendous fraternal failure if he appointed to rush into my arms on my birthday . 
The first Magic Lantern I ever saw , was secretly and elaborately planned to be the great effect of a very juvenile birthday but it wouldn't act , and its images were dim . 
My experience of adult birthday Magic Lanterns may possibly have been unfortunate , but has certainly been similar . 
I have an illustrative birthday in my eye a birthday of my friend Flipfield , whose birthdays had long been remarkable as social successes . 
Those were delightful gatherings , and were enjoyed by all participators . 
In an evil hour , a long lost brother of Flipfield's came to light in foreign parts . 
Delicacy commanded that I should repress the gloomy anticipations with which my soul became fraught when I heard of this plan . 
The fatal day arrived , and we assembled in force . 
The Long lost did not appear . 
Dinner , half an hour later than usual , was announced , and still no Long lost . 
We sat down to table . 
It was then that the Long lost gained the height of his popularity with the company for my own part , I felt convinced that I loved him dearly . 
Flipfield's dinners are perfect , and he is the easiest and best of entertainers . 
Dinner went on brilliantly , and the more the Long lost didn't come , the more comfortable we grew , and the more highly we thought of him . 
I looked round me , and perceived the sudden pallor which I knew my own visage revealed , reflected in the faces of the company . 
Flipfield hurriedly excused himself , went out , was absent for about a minute or two , and then re entered with the Long lost . 
Embodied Failure sat enthroned upon the Long lost's brow , and pervaded him to his Long lost boots . 
In vain Mrs. Flipfield senior , opening her arms , exclaimed , 'My Tom ! and pressed his nose against the counterfeit presentment of his other parent . 
Nothing he could have done would have set him right with us but his instant return to the Ganges . 
In the very same moments it became established that the feeling was reciprocal , and that the Long lost detested us . 
Not an opinion could be elicited from the Long lost , in unison with the sentiments of any individual present . 
He contradicted Flipfield dead , before he had eaten his salmon . 
He was an antipathetical being , with a peculiar power and gift of treading on everybody's tenderest place . 
They talk in America of a man's 'Platform . 
It is needless to add that Flipfield's great birthday went by the board , and that he was a wreck when I pretended at parting to wish him many happy returns of it . 
There is another class of birthdays at which I have so frequently assisted , that I may assume such birthdays to be pretty well known to the human race . 
My friend Mayday's birthday is an example . 
The guests have no knowledge of one another except on that one day in the year , and are annually terrified for a week by the prospect of meeting one another again . 
There is a fiction among us that we have uncommon reasons for being particularly lively and spirited on the occasion , whereas deep despondency is no phrase for the expression of our feelings . 
I may even go so far as to assert that there is a dumb compact among us that we will pretend that it is NOT Mayday's birthday . 
The devices and pretences that I have seen put in practice to defer the fatal moment , and to interpose between this man and his purpose , are innumerable . 
When at last the hand and the decanter come together , a shudder , a palpable perceptible shudder , goes round the table . 
We receive the reminder that it is Mayday's birthday , as if it were the anniversary of some profound disgrace he had undergone , and we sought to comfort him . 
Birthdays of this species have a public as well as a private phase . 
My 'boyhood's home , Dullborough , presents a case in point . 
The County history was looked up for a locally Immortal Somebody , but the registered Dullborough worthies were all Nobodies . 
It fell back upon Shakespeare . 
No sooner was it resolved to celebrate Shakespeare's birthday in Dullborough , than the popularity of the immortal bard became surprising . 
You might have supposed the first edition of his works to have been published last week , and enthusiastic Dullborough to have got half through them . 
Portraits of Shakespeare broke out in the bookshop windows , and our principal artist painted a large original portrait in oils for the decoration of the dining room . 
It was not in the least like any of the other Portraits , and was exceedingly admired , the head being much swollen . 
But the wheel goes round , and round , and round and because it goes round so I am told by the politest authorities it goes well . 
We suffered for these things , and they made us miserable enough . 
As to the mental portion of them being my own fault in my own case I should like to ask any well trained and experienced teacher , not to say psychologist . 
And as to the physical portion I should like to ask PROFESSOR OWEN . 
It happened that I had a small bundle of papers with me , on what is called 'The Half Time System' in schools . 
Referring to one of those papers I found that the indefatigable MR . 
Much comforted by the good Professor's being on my side , I read on to discover whether the indefatigable Mr. Chadwick had taken up the mental part of my afflictions . 
I found that he had , and that he had gained on my behalf , SIR BENJAMIN BRODIE , SIR DAVID WILKIE , SIR WALTER SCOTT , and the common sense of mankind . 
For which I beg Mr. Chadwick , if this should meet his eye , to accept my warm acknowledgments . 
But now the misgiving vanished , and I floated on with a quieted mind to see the Half Time System in action . 
For that was the purpose of my journey , both by steamboat on the Thames , and by very dirty railway on the shore . 
I had not only my eyes , nose , and ears filled , but my hat , and all my pockets , and my pocket book , and my watch . 
delivered me close to my destination , and I soon found the Half Time System established in spacious premises , and freely placed at my convenience and disposal . 
What would I see first of the Half Time System ? I chose Military Drill . 
There was perfect uniformity , and yet an individual spirit and emulation . 
No spectator could doubt that the boys liked it . 
With non commissioned officers varying from a yard to a yard and a half high , the result could not possibly have been attained otherwise . 
They marched , and counter marched , and formed in line and square , and company , and single file and double file , and performed a variety of evolutions all most admirably . 
In respect of an air of enjoyable understanding of what they were about , which seems to be forbidden to English soldiers , the boys might have been small French troops . 
The steadiness of the broadsword boys on their short legs , and the firmness with which they sustained the different positions , was truly remarkable . 
The broadsword exercise over , suddenly there was great excitement and a rush . 
Naval Drill ! In the corner of the ground stood a decked mimic ship , with real masts , yards , and sails mainmast seventy feet high . 
Hoo roar , fifer ! With a will , my lads ! Tip 'em a livelier one , fifer ! Fifer tips 'em a livelier one , and excitement increases . 
, but he was immediately recovered , none the worse . 
Presently , I observed the Skipper overboard , but forbore to mention it , as he seemed in no wise disconcerted by the accident . 
But we couldn't expect to go on in this way for ever dirty weather came on , and then worse weather , and when we least expected it we got into tremendous difficulties . 
In the trying circumstances that ensued , the Skipper and the crew proved worthy of one another . 
The Skipper got dreadfully hoarse , but otherwise was master of the situation . 
We worked into harbour under prosperous circumstances , and furled our sails , and squared our yards , and made all ship shape and handsome , and so our voyage ended . 
The next adventure that befell me in my visit to the Short Timers , was the sudden apparition of a military band . 
And my astonishment was heightened when I observed a large drum , that had previously been leaning helpless against a wall , taking up a stout position on four legs . 
, and then I found that each of the brazen instruments had brought out a boy , and was going to discourse sweet sounds . 
The band's proficiency was perfectly wonderful , and it was not at all wonderful that the whole body corporate of Short Timers listened with faces of the liveliest interest and pleasure . 
The problem is hardly stated , when a dozen small boys pour out answers . 
Wise as the serpent is the four feet of performer on the nearest approach to that instrument , whose right arm instantly appears , and quenches this arithmetical fire . 
All these questions , and many such , are put on the spur of the moment , and by one who has never examined these boys . 
Pondering ensues , two or three wrong answers are offered , and Cymbals strikes up 'Six ! but doesn't know why . 
Then modestly emerging from his Academic Grove of corduroys appears the fifer , right arm extended , right leg foremost , bump irradiated . 
'Twelve , and two over ! The feminine Short Timers passed a similar examination , and very creditably too . 
These have long been excellent schools long before the days of the Short Time . 
I first saw them , twelve or fifteen years ago . 
The good influences of music on the whole body of children have likewise been surprisingly proved . 
The last is a most important consideration , as poor parents are always impatient to profit by their children's labour . 
It will be objected Firstly , that this is all very well , but special local advantages and special selection of children must be necessary to such success . 
Secondly , that this is all very well , but must be very expensive . 
Thirdly , that this is all very well , but we have no proof of the results , sir , no proof . 
On the first head of local advantages and special selection . 
On the second head of expense . 
On the third head of no proof , sir , no proof . 
He exclaimed , Who's done that job ? The owner , who was on board , said , That was the little fellow whom I put on board two days ago . 
Into what admirable soldiers others of these boys have the capabilities for being turned , I need not point out . 
In the moral health of these schools where corporal punishment is unknown Truthfulness stands high . 
When the ship was first erected , the boys were forbidden to go aloft , until the nets , which are now always there , were stretched as a precaution against accidents . 
Certain boys , in their eagerness , disobeyed the injunction , got out of window in the early daylight , and climbed to the masthead . 
One boy unfortunately fell , and was killed . 
There was no clue to the others but all the boys were assembled , and the chairman of the Board addressed them . 
Who are the delinquents ? Instantly , the whole number of boys concerned , separated from the rest , and stood out . 
My road lies through that part of London generally known to the initiated as 'Down by the Docks . 
Down by the Docks , is a region I would choose as my point of embarkation aboard ship if I were an emigrant . 
It would present my intention to me in such a sensible light it would show me so many things to be run away from . 
Down by the Docks , they eat the largest oysters and scatter the roughest oyster shells , known to the descendants of Saint George and the Dragon . 
Down by the Docks , they consume the slimiest of shell fish , which seem to have been scraped off the copper bottoms of ships . 
Down by the Docks , the vegetables at green grocers' doors acquire a saline and a scaly look , as if they had been crossed with fish and seaweed . 
Down by the Docks , the seamen roam in mid street and mid day , their pockets inside out , and their heads no better . 
Down by the Docks , you may buy polonies , saveloys , and sausage preparations various , if you are not particular what they are made of besides seasoning . 
Gigantic in the basin just beyond the church , looms my Emigrant Ship her name , the Amazon . 
My Emigrant Ship lies broadside on to the wharf . 
To and fro , up and down , aboard and ashore , swarming here and there and everywhere , my Emigrants . 
I go aboard my Emigrant Ship . 
I go first to the great cabin , and find it in the usual condition of a Cabin at that pass . 
, find more pens and inkstands in action , and more papers , and interminable complication respecting accounts with individuals for tin cans and what not . 
Now , I have seen emigrant ships before this day in June . 
They came from various parts of England in small parties that had never seen one another before . 
Yet they had not been a couple of hours on board , when they established their own police , made their own regulations , and set their own watches at all the hatchways . 
Before nine o'clock , the ship was as orderly and as quiet as a man of war . 
I looked about me again , and saw the letter writing going on with the most curious composure . 
, only rising to the surface occasionally for a dip of ink . 
Alongside the boat , close to me on the poop deck , another girl , a fresh , well grown country girl , was writing another letter on the bare deck . 
'A stranger would be puzzled to guess the right name for these people , Mr. Uncommercial , says the captain . 
'If you hadn't known , could you ever have supposed ? 'How could I ! I should have said they were in their degree , the pick and flower of England . 
'So should I , says the captain . 
'How many are they ? 'Eight hundred in round numbers . 
A few women here and there , had got lost , and were laughing at it , and asking their way to their own people , or out on deck again . 
A few of the poor children were crying but otherwise the universal cheerfulness was amazing . 
'We shall shake down by to morrow . 
'We shall come all right in a day or so . 
'We shall have more light at sea . 
Surely , an extraordinary people in their power of self abstraction ! All the former letter writers were still writing calmly , and many more letter writers had broken out in my absence . 
, and went to work at a sum as if he were stone deaf . 
I think the most noticeable characteristic in the eight hundred as a mass , was their exemption from hurry . 
Eight hundred what ? 'Geese , villain ? EIGHT HUNDRED MORMONS . 
like what I now describe with scrupulous exactness . 
A compactly made handsome man in black , rather short , with rich brown hair and beard , and clear bright eyes . 
From his speech , I should set him down as American . 
Probably , a man who had 'knocked about the world' pretty much . 
A man with a frank open manner , and unshrinking look withal a man of great quickness . 
I believe he was wholly ignorant of my Uncommercial individuality , and consequently of my immense Uncommercial importance . 
These are a very fine set of people you have brought together here . 
Yes , sir , they are a VERY fine set of people . 
Indeed , I think it would be difficult to find Eight hundred people together anywhere else , and find so much beauty and so much strength and capacity for work among them . 
We sent out about a thousand more , yes'day , from Liverpool . 
You are not going with these emigrants ? MORMON AGENT . 
But you have been in the Mormon Territory ? MORMON AGENT . 
Yes I left Utah about three years ago . 
It is surprising to me that these people are all so cheery , and make so little of the immense distance before them . 
Well , you see many of 'em have friends out at Utah , and many of 'em look forward to meeting friends on the way . 
On the way ? MORMON AGENT . 
This ship lands 'em in New York City . 
Then they go on by rail right away beyond St . 
Louis , to that part of the Banks of the Missouri where they strike the Plains . 
There , waggons from the settlement meet 'em to bear 'em company on their journey 'cross twelve hundred miles about . 
Industrious people who come out to the settlement soon get waggons of their own , and so the friends of some of these will come down in their own waggons to meet 'em . 
They look forward to that , greatly . 
On their long journey across the Desert , do you arm them ? MORMON AGENT . 
Mostly you would find they have arms of some kind or another already with them . 
Such as had not arms we should arm across the Plains , for the general protection and defence . 
Will these waggons bring down any produce to the Missouri ? MORMON AGENT . 
Well , since the war broke out , we've taken to growing cotton , and they'll likely bring down cotton to be exchanged for machinery . 
Also we have taken to growing indigo , which is a fine commodity for profit . 
It has been found that the climate on the further side of the Great Salt Lake suits well for raising indigo . 
I am told that these people now on board are principally from the South of England ? MORMON AGENT . 
Do you get many Scotch ? MORMON AGENT . 
Highlanders , for instance ? MORMON AGENT . 
They ain't interested enough in universal brotherhood and peace and good will . 
The old fighting blood is strong in them ? MORMON AGENT . 
And besides they've no faith . 
Faith in ! MORMON AGENT . 
Would you mind my asking you what part of the country you come from ? WILTSHIRE . 
I've worked all my life o' Salisbury Plain , right under the shadder o' Stonehenge . 
You mightn't think it , but I haive . 
And a pleasant country too . 
Ah ! 'Tis a pleasant country . 
Have you any family on board ? WILTSHIRE . 
Two children , boy and gal . 
I am a widderer , I am , and I'm going out alonger my boy and gal . 
I'll go and fetch my boy . 
I'd like to show you my boy . 
It must cost you a great deal of money to go so far , three strong . 
Theer ! Eight shillen a week , eight shillen a week , eight shillen a week , put by out of the week's wages for ever so long . 
I wonder how you did it . 
Then it were unfort'net for us , you see , as we got kep' in Bristol so long nigh a fortnight , it were on accounts of a mistake wi' Brother Halliday . 
Swaller'd up money , it did , when we might have come straight on . 
You are of the Mormon religion , of course ? WILTSHIRE . 
O yes , I'm a Mormon . 
After a noontide pause for dinner , during which my Emigrants were nearly all between decks , and the Amazon looked deserted , a general muster took place . 
The muster was for the ceremony of passing the Government Inspector and the Doctor . 
They knew nothing whatever of me , I believe , and my testimony to the unpretending gentleness and good nature with which they discharged their duty , may be of the greater worth . 
There was not the slightest flavour of the Circumlocution Office about their proceedings . 
The emigrants were now all on deck . 
They were densely crowded aft , and swarmed upon the poop deck like bees . 
Two or three Mormon agents stood ready to hand them on to the Inspector , and to hand them forward when they had passed . 
By what successful means , a special aptitude for organisation had been infused into these people , I am , of course , unable to report . 
But I know that , even now , there was no disorder , hurry , or difficulty . 
All being ready , the first group are handed on . 
In every instance through the whole eight hundred , without an exception , this paper is always ready . 
Jessie Jobson , Sophronia Jobson , Jessie Jobson again , Matilda Jobson , William Jobson , Jane Jobson , Matilda Jobson again , Brigham Jobson , Leonardo Jobson , and Orson Jobson . 
This group is composed of an old grandfather and grandmother , their married son and his wife , and THEIR family of children . 
Orson Jobson is a little child asleep in his mother's arms . 
The Doctor , with a kind word or so , lifts up the corner of the mother's shawl , looks at the child's face , and touches the little clenched hand . 
If we were all as well as Orson Jobson , doctoring would be a poor profession . 
Quite right , Jessie Jobson . 
Take your ticket , Jessie , and pass on . 
Mormon agent , skilful and quiet , hands them on . 
Mormon agent , skilful and quiet , hands next party up . 
Susannah Cleverly and William Cleverly . 
Brother and sister , eh ? SISTER . 
Very good , Susannah Cleverly . 
Take your ticket , Susannah , and take care of it . 
Your husband quite blind , Mrs. Dibble ? MRS . 
Yes , sir , he be stone blind . 
Yes , sir , I be stone blind . 
Take your ticket , Mrs. Dibble , and don't lose it , and pass on . 
Doctor taps Mr. Dibble on the eyebrow with his forefinger , and away they go . 
That is me , sir . 
Going alone , Anastatia ? ANASTATIA . 
I am with Mrs. Jobson , sir , but I've got separated for the moment . 
Oh ! You are with the Jobsons ? Quite right . 
That'll do , Miss Weedle . 
Before her extensive skirts have departed from the casks , a decent widow stands there with four children , and so the roll goes . 
The faces of some of the Welsh people , among whom there were many old persons , were certainly the least intelligent . 
Some of these emigrants would have bungled sorely , but for the directing hand that was always ready . 
The intelligence here was unquestionably of a low order , and the heads were of a poor type . 
Generally the case was the reverse . 
There were many worn faces bearing traces of patient poverty and hard work , and there was great steadiness of purpose and much undemonstrative self respect among this class . 
A few young men were going singly . 
Several girls were going , two or three together . 
These latter I found it very difficult to refer back , in my mind , to their relinquished homes and pursuits . 
Perhaps they were more like country milliners , and pupil teachers rather tawdrily dressed , than any other classes of young women . 
I noticed , among many little ornaments worn , more than one photograph brooch of the Princess of Wales , and also of the late Prince Consort . 
That they had any distinct notions of a plurality of husbands or wives , I do not believe . 
that most familiar kinds of handicraft trades were represented here . 
Farm labourers , shepherds , and the like , had their full share of representation , but I doubt if they preponderated . 
Sometimes it was the father , much oftener the mother , sometimes a quick little girl second or third in order of seniority . 
Among all the fine handsome children , I observed but two with marks upon their necks that were probably scrofulous . 
Some copies were handsomely bound the plainer were the more in request , and many were bought . 
The title ran 'Sacred Hymns and Spiritual Songs for the Church of Jesus Church of Latter Day Saints . 
In accordance with their wishes , we have selected the following volume , which we hope will prove acceptable until a greater variety can be added . 
With sentiments of high consideration and esteem , we subscribe ourselves your brethren in the New and Everlasting Covenant , BRIGHAM YOUNG , PARLEY P. PRATT , JOHN TAYLOR . 
But the choir in the boat was very popular and pleasant and there was to have been a Band , only the Cornet was late in coming on board . 
In the course of the afternoon , a mother appeared from shore , in search of her daughter , 'who had run away with the Mormons . 
She received every assistance from the Inspector , but her daughter was not found to be on board . 
The saints did not seem to me , particularly interested in finding her . 
Towards five o'clock , the galley became full of tea kettles , and an agreeable fragrance of tea pervaded the ship . 
There was no scrambling or jostling for the hot water , no ill humour , no quarrelling . 
I went over the Amazon's side , feeling it impossible to deny that , so far , some remarkable influence had produced a remarkable result , which better known influences have often missed . 
After this Uncommercial Journey was printed , I happened to mention the experience it describes to Lord Houghton . 
The Mormon ship is a Family under strong and accepted discipline , with every provision for comfort , decorum and internal peace . 
A gentle fall of rain is not objectionable , and a warm mist sets off my favourite retreats to decided advantage . 
Among these , City Churchyards hold a high place . 
As I stand peeping in through the iron gates and rails , I can peel the rusty metal off , like bark from an old tree . 
Contagion of slow ruin overhangs the place . 
The discoloured tiled roofs of the environing buildings stand so awry , that they can hardly be proof against any stress of weather . 
Old crazy stacks of chimneys seem to look down as they overhang , dubiously calculating how far they will have to fall . 
In an angle of the walls , what was once the tool house of the grave digger rots away , encrusted with toadstools . 
It lies at the heart of the City , and the Blackwall Railway shrieks at it daily . 
It is a small small churchyard , with a ferocious , strong , spiked iron gate , like a jail . 
Therefore the skulls grin aloft horribly , thrust through and through with iron spears . 
'Why not ? I said , in self excuse . 
Having no other person to whom to impart my satisfaction , I communicated it to the driver . 
So far from being responsive , he surveyed me he was naturally a bottled nosed , red faced man with a blanched countenance . 
toasting their own Worshipful prosperity . 
By what means the old old man and woman had got into it , with an almost toothless hay making rake , I could not fathom . 
Gravely among the graves , they made hay , all alone by themselves . 
They looked like Time and his wife . 
The old man was quite an obsolete old man , in knee breeches and coarse grey stockings , and the old woman wore mittens like unto his stockings in texture and in colour . 
They took no heed of me as I looked on , unable to account for them . 
The old woman was much too bright for a pew opener , the old man much too meek for a beadle . 
I coughed and awoke the echoes , but the hay makers never looked at me . 
Perhaps they were Spectres , and I wanted a Medium . 
In another City churchyard of similar cramped dimensions , I saw , that selfsame summer , two comfortable charity children . 
were as much in the wrong as mere passive weakness of character can render legs . 
Immediately both dived , and became as it were non existent on this sphere . 
With an assumption of innocence I turned to leave the sacred edifice , when an obese form stood in the portal , puffily demanding Joseph , or in default of Joseph , Celia . 
It would be superfluous to hint that I have ever since deemed this the proudest passage in my life . 
But such instances , or any tokens of vitality , are rare indeed in my City churchyards . 
Then the light passes and the colours die . 
The more depressed class of beggars too , bring hither broken meats , and munch . 
You do not come upon these churchyards violently there are shapes of transition in the neighbourhood . 
A very quiet court , in combination with an unaccountable dyer's and scourer's , would prepare me for a churchyard . 
I first inferred the vicinity of Saint Ghastly Grim , from a certain air of extra repose and gloom pervading a vast stack of warehouses . 
From the hush of these places , it is congenial to pass into the hushed resorts of business . 
Down the lanes I like to see the carts and waggons huddled together in repose , the cranes idle , and the warehouses shut . 
When I draw money , it never seems so much money as when it is shovelled at me out of a bright copper shovel . 
Such reverses have been , since the days of Whittington and were , long before . 
I want to know whether the boy has any foreglittering of that glittering fortune now , when he treads these stones , hungry . 
engrave the names of their mistresses . 
After all , it is a more satisfactory process than carving , and can be oftener repeated . 
So these courts in their Sunday rest are courts of Love Omnipotent , dry as they look . 
But the wonder is , that they go clean away ! And now I think of it , the wonder is , that every working day pervader of these scenes goes clean away . 
The man who sells the dogs' collars and the little toy coal scuttles , feels under as great an obligation to go afar off , as Glyn and Co . 
, or Smith , Payne , and Smith . 
CHAPTER XXIV AN OLD STAGE COACHING HOUSE Before the waitress had shut the door , I had forgotten how many stage coaches she said used to change horses in the town every day . 
But it was of little moment any high number would do as well as another . 
It had been a great stage coaching town in the great stage coaching times , and the ruthless railways had killed and buried it . 
The sign of the house was the Dolphin's Head . 
The sign board chafed its rusty hooks outside the bow window of my room , and was a shabby work . 
No visitor could have denied that the Dolphin was dying by inches , but he showed no bright colours . 
He had once served another master there was a newer streak of paint below him , displaying with inconsistent freshness the legend , By J. MELLOWS . 
My door opened again , and J. Mellows's representative came back . 
This young woman had but shut the door on retiring again when I bethought me of adding to my order , the words , 'with nice vegetables . 
Looking out at the door to give them emphatic utterance , I found her already in a state of pensive catalepsy in the deserted gallery , picking her teeth with a pin . 
At the Railway Station seven miles off , I had been the subject of wonder when I ordered a fly in which to come here . 
My purpose was fitly inaugurated by the Dolphin's Head , which everywhere expressed past coachfulness and present coachlessness . 
Broken glasses , damaged frames , lop sided hanging , and consignment of incurable cripples to places of refuge in dark corners , attested the desolation of the rest . 
, had good reason for perking his nose and sniffing . 
Pursuing my researches in the Dolphin's Head , I found it sorely shrunken . 
the whole forming a back lane . 
This I accepted as emblematical of the struggle for post and place in railway times . 
It looked as if they had been shedding tears for the stage coaches , and drying their ineffectual pocket handkerchiefs . 
Such weakness would have been excusable for business was as one dejected porkman who kept a shop which refused to reciprocate the compliment by keeping him , informed me 'bitter bad . 
The opposition house to the Dolphin , once famous as the New White Hart , had long collapsed . 
Perhaps from their elevation they saw the railway , and it aggravated them . 
To whom I pacifically said 'Good day , sir ! 'What ? said he . 
He seemed to consider about that , and not to agree with me . 
'Was you a looking for anything ? he then asked , in a pointed manner . 
'I was wondering whether there happened to be any fragment of an old stage coach here . 
'Is that all ? 'That's all . 
It was now my turn to say 'Oh ! and I said it . 
Not another word did the dry and grizzled man say , but bent to his work again . 
Presently he looked up again . 
'You seem to have a deal of time on your hands , was his querulous remark . 
'I think it's a pity you was not brought up to something , said he . 
I said I thought so too . 
, pushed up his spectacles again , and came to the door . 
'Would a po shay do for you ? he asked . 
'I am not sure that I understand what you mean . 
'Then you keep straight along down there till you see one . 
YOU'LL see one if you go fur enough . 
With that , he turned me by the shoulder in the direction I was to take , and went in and resumed his work against a background of leaves and grapes . 
I came to the Turnpike , and I found it , in its silent way , eloquent respecting the change that had fallen on the road . 
The Turnpike house was all overgrown with ivy and the Turnpike keeper , unable to get a living out of the tolls , plied the trade of a cobbler . 
The political economy of the master of the turnpike thus expressed itself . 
'How goes turnpike business , master ? said I to him , as he sat in his little porch , repairing a shoe . 
'It don't go at all , master , said he to me . 
'That's bad , said I. 'Bad ? he repeated . 
And he pointed to one of his sunburnt dusty children who was climbing the turnpike gate , and said , extending his open right hand in remonstrance with Universal Nature . 
'I should like to know it . 
'Lay a toll on everything as comes through lay a toll on walkers . 
Lay another toll on everything as don't come through lay a toll on them as stops at home . 
'Would the last remedy be fair ? 'Fair ? Them as stops at home , could come through if they liked couldn't they ? 'Say they could . 
If they don't come through , it's THEIR look out . 
My mind now began to misgive me that the disappointed coach maker had sent me on a wild goose errand , and that there was no post chaise in those parts . 
But coming within view of certain allotment gardens by the roadside , I retracted the suspicion , and confessed that I had done him an injustice . 
For , there I saw , surely , the poorest superannuated post chaise left on earth . 
It was a post chaise taken off its axletree and wheels , and plumped down on the clayey soil among a ragged growth of vegetables . 
It was a post chaise not even set straight upon the ground , but tilted over , as if it had fallen out of a balloon . 
It was a post chaise that had been a long time in those decayed circumstances , and against which scarlet beans were trained . 
In the wonder of this discovery , I walked round and round the post chaise many times , and sat down by the post chaise , waiting for further elucidation . 
I had to scramble through a hedge and down a steep bank , and I nearly came down a top of a little spare man who sat breaking stones by the roadside . 
Do you happen to know anything about it ? 'I know it was many a year upon the road , said he . 
Then , raising his barred eyes to my features as before , he said 'To me . 
He raised himself by poising his finger on his hammer , and took his coat , on which he had been seated , over his arm . 
It was not until then that I noticed he had been working by a grass grown milestone , which looked like a tombstone erected over the grave of the London road . 
My dinner hour being close at hand , I had no leisure to pursue the goggles or the subject then , but made my way back to the Dolphin's Head . 
In the gateway I found J. Mellows , looking at nothing , and apparently experiencing that it failed to raise his spirits . 
'If I didn't belong to a better style of town than this , I'd take and drown myself in a pail . 
It then occurred to me that Mellows , having so little to do , was habitually thrown back on his internal resources by which I mean the Dolphin's cellar . 
The Petition for the Branch Bill is in the coffee room . 
Would you put your name to it ? Every little helps . 
Having achieved this constitutional feat , I asked Mr. Mellows if he could grace my dinner with a pint of good wine ? Mr. Mellows thus replied . 
'If I couldn't give you a pint of good wine , I'd there ! I'd take and drown myself in a pail . 
But I was deceived when I bought this business , and the stock was higgledy piggledy , and I haven't yet tasted my way quite through it with a view to sorting it . 
Therefore , if you order one kind and get another , change till it comes right . 
London is shabby in contrast with Edinburgh , with Aberdeen , with Exeter , with Liverpool , with a bright little town like Bury St . 
London is shabby in contrast with New York , with Boston , with Philadelphia . 
In detail , one would say it can rarely fail to be a disappointing piece of shabbiness , to a stranger from any of those places . 
There is nothing shabbier than Drury lane , in Rome itself . 
London is shabby by daylight , and shabbier by gaslight . 
No Englishman knows what gaslight is , until he sees the Rue de Rivoli and the Palais Royal after dark . 
The mass of London people are shabby . 
The absence of distinctive dress has , no doubt , something to do with it . 
The porters of the Vintners' Company , the draymen , and the butchers , are about the only people who wear distinctive dresses and even these do not wear them on holidays . 
We have nothing which for cheapness , cleanliness , convenience , or picturesqueness , can compare with the belted blouse . 
In London , on the contrary , the fashions descend and you never fully know how inconvenient or ridiculous a fashion is , until you see it in its last descent . 
It was but the other day , on a race course , that I observed four people in a barouche deriving great entertainment from the contemplation of four people on foot . 
The four people on foot were two young men and two young women the four people in the barouche were two young men and two young women . 
The four young women were dressed in exactly the same style the four young men were dressed in exactly the same style . 
Is it only in the matter of clothes that fashion descends here in London and consequently in England and thence shabbiness arises ? Let us think a little , and be just . 
O we are all agreed on that . 
But , we must not quite forget the crowds of gentlefolks who set the shamefully dangerous fashion , either . 
All this must not be eclipsed in the Blackness of the Black Country . 
Whatsoever fashion is set in England , is certain to descend . 
This is a text for a perpetual sermon on care in setting fashions . 
when it was the fashion high up . 
This is the text for a perpetual sermon on social justice . 
From imitations of Ethiopian Serenaders , to imitations of Prince's coats and waistcoats , you will find the original model in St . 
When the Serenaders become tiresome , trace them beyond the Black Country when the coats and waistcoats become insupportable , refer them to their source in the Upper Toady Regions . 
Gentlemen's clubs were once maintained for purposes of savage party warfare working men's clubs of the same day assumed the same character . 
Gentlemen's clubs became places of quiet inoffensive recreation working men's clubs began to follow suit . 
The instinctive revolt of his spirit against patronage , is a quality much to be respected in the English working man . 
It is the base of the base of his best qualities . 
Consequently , not being a fool or a fawner , he has come to acknowledge his patronage by virtually saying 'Let me alone . 
If you understand me no better than THAT , sir and madam , let me alone . 
You mean very well , I dare say , but I don't like it , and I won't come here again to have any more of it . 
Whatever is done for the comfort and advancement of the working man must be so far done by himself as that it is maintained by himself . 
And there must be in it no touch of condescension , no shadow of patronage . 
In the great working districts , this truth is studied and understood . 
The quick consequence was , that suspicion and reluctance were vanquished , and that the effort resulted in an astonishing and a complete success . 
Open from A. M. till P. M. PRICES . 
All Articles of the BEST QUALITY . 
D. THE DAILY PAPERS PROVIDED . 
The assistance of all frequenting the Depot is confidently expected in checking anything interfering with the comfort , quiet , and regularity of the establishment . 
Please do not destroy this Hand Bill , but hand it to some other person whom it may interest . 
had hired a newly built warehouse that it found to let therefore it was not established in premises specially designed for the purpose . 
But , at a small cost they were exceedingly well adapted to the purpose being light , well ventilated , clean , and cheerful . 
They consisted of three large rooms . 
I think the whole staff was female , with the exception of the steward or manager . 
, I make bold to express my Uncommercial opinion that it has no business to live , and had better die . 
It was made clear to me by the account books , that every person employed was properly paid . 
My next inquiries were directed to the quality of the provisions purchased , and to the terms on which they were bought . 
It was made equally clear to me that the quality was the very best , and that all bills were paid weekly . 
My next inquiries were directed to the balance sheet for the last two weeks only the third and fourth of the establishment's career . 
one pound ten and the previous week a profit of six pounds ten . 
By this time I felt that I had a healthy appetite for the dinners . 
Within this little window , like a pay box at a theatre , a neat and brisk young woman presided to take money and issue tickets . 
Every one coming in must take a ticket . 
, or a penny ticket for a bowl of soup , or as many penny tickets as he or she choose to buy . 
For three penny tickets one had quite a wide range of choice . 
Touching what they should have , some customers on taking their seats fell into a reverie became mildly distracted postponed decision , and said in bewilderment , they would think of it . 
The decision of the boys was as rapid as their execution , and always included pudding . 
There were several women among the diners , and several clerks and shopmen . 
There were carpenters and painters from the neighbouring buildings under repair , and there were nautical men , and there were , as one diner observed to me , 'some of most sorts . 
Some were solitary , some came two together , some dined in parties of three or four , or six . 
The latter talked together , but assuredly no one was louder than at my club in Pall Mall . 
One young fellow whistled in rather a shrill manner while he waited for his dinner , but I was gratified to observe that he did so in evident defiance of my Uncommercial individuality . 
The room of the fourpence halfpenny banquet had , like the lower room , a counter in it , on which were ranged a great number of cold portions ready for distribution . 
Behind this counter , the fragrant soup was steaming in deep cans , and the best cooked of potatoes were fished out of similar receptacles . 
Nothing to eat was touched with his hand . 
Every waitress had her own tables to attend to . 
discharged their duty , was as agreeable to see , as the neat smartness with which they wore their dress and had dressed their hair . 
If I seldom saw better waiting , so I certainly never ate better meat , potatoes , or pudding . 
The dinner service , too , was neither conspicuously hideous for High Art nor for Low Art , but was of a pleasant and pure appearance . 
Concerning the viands and their cookery , one last remark . 
I dined at my club in Pall Mall aforesaid , a few days afterwards , for exactly twelve times the money , and not half as well . 
The company thickened after one o'clock struck , and changed pretty quickly . 
It was clear to me , however , that they were there to have what they paid for , and to be on an independent footing . 
To the best of my judgment , they might be patronised out of the building in a month . 
With judicious visiting , and by dint of being questioned , read to , and talked at , they might even be got rid of in half the time . 
Another drawback on the Whitechapel establishment , is the absence of beer . 
But , there is a much higher ground on which this absence of beer is objectionable . 
It expresses distrust of the working man . 
It is a fragment of that old mantle of patronage in which so many estimable Thugs , so darkly wandering up and down the moral world , are sworn to muffle him . 
Good beer is a good thing for him , he says , and he likes it the Depot could give it him good , and he now gets it bad . 
Why does the Depot not give it him good ? Because he would get drunk . 
Now , this distrust is an affront , is exceedingly inconsistent with the confidence the managers express in their hand bills , and is a timid stopping short upon the straight highway . 
It is unjust and unreasonable , also . 
It is unjust , because it punishes the sober man for the vice of the drunken man . 
The classes for whose benefit the real depots are designed , will distinguish between the two kinds of enterprise . 
CHAPTER XXVI CHATHAM DOCKYARD There are some small out of the way landing places on the Thames and the Medway , where I do much of my summer idling . 
Running water is favourable to day dreams , and a strong tidal river is the best of running water for mine . 
Watching these objects , I still am under no obligation to think about them , or even so much as to see them , unless it perfectly suits my humour . 
, from which fort mysteriously emerges a boy , to whom I am much indebted for additions to my scanty stock of knowledge . 
He is a young boy , with an intelligent face burnt to a dust colour by the summer sun , and with crisp hair of the same hue . 
But for him , I might never have heard of 'the dumb ague , respecting which malady I am now learned . 
He has also enlightened me touching the mushrooms of the marshes , and has gently reproved my ignorance in having supposed them to be impregnated with salt . 
His manner of imparting information , is thoughtful , and appropriate to the scene . 
He never improves my mind without observing this formula . 
I found him up to everything that is done in the contracting line by Messrs . 
Peto and Brassey cunning in the article of concrete mellow in the matter of iron great on the subject of gunnery . 
While he thus discoursed , he several times directed his eyes to one distant quarter of the landscape , and spoke with vague mysterious awe of 'the Yard . 
Taken with this modesty on the part of the Yard , I resolved to improve the Yard's acquaintance . 
My good opinion of the Yard's retiring character was not dashed by nearer approach . 
And so I came to the Yard , which was shut up tight and strong with great folded gates , like an enormous patent safe . 
'Obedient monster , please to bite this mass of iron through and through , at equal distances , where these regular chalk marks are , all round . 
'Dutiful monster , observe this other mass of iron . 
It is required to be pared away , according to this delicately lessening and arbitrary line , which please to look at . 
brings down its blunt head , and , much in the manner of Doctor Johnson , closely looks along the line very closely , being somewhat near sighted . 
For my own part , I should as soon have thought of tethering an elephant to a tent peg , or the larger hippopotamus in the Zoological Gardens to my shirt pin . 
Yonder in the river , alongside a hulk , lie two of this ship's hollow iron masts . 
THEY are large enough for the eye , I find , and so are all her other appliances . 
I wonder why only her anchors look small . 
I have no present time to think about it , for I am going to see the workshops where they make all the oars used in the British Navy . 
Suddenly the noise and motion cease , and the butterflies drop dead . 
An oar has been made since I came in , wanting the shaped handle . 
As quickly as I can follow it with my eye and thought , the same oar is carried to a turning lathe . 
A whirl and a Nick ! Handle made . 
The exquisite beauty and efficiency of this machinery need no illustration , but happen to have a pointed illustration to day . 
A pair of oars of unusual size chance to be wanted for a special purpose , and they have to be made by hand . 
The machine would make a regulation oar while the man wipes his forehead . 
just sent in from the contractor's yard to be inspected and passed . 
Which salutation a callow and downy faced young officer of Engineers , going by at the moment , perceiving , appropriates and to which he is most heartily welcome , I am sure . 
Everywhere , as I saunter up and down the Yard , I meet with tokens of its quiet and retiring character . 
than a few occasional echoes . 
But for a whisper in the air suggestive of sawdust and shavings , the oar making and the saws of many movements might be miles away . 
Down below here , is the great reservoir of water where timber is steeped in various temperatures , as a part of its seasoning process . 
I used to think that I should like to play at Chinese Enchanter , and to have that apparatus placed at my disposal for the purpose by a beneficent country . 
I still think that I should rather like to try the effect of writing a book in it . 
The costly store of timber is stacked and stowed away in sequestered places , with the pervading avoidance of flourish or effect . 
Strangely twisted pieces lie about , precious in the sight of shipwrights . 
Sauntering through these groves , I come upon an open glade where workmen are examining some timber recently delivered . 
Quite a pastoral scene , with a background of river and windmill ! and no more like War than the American States are at present like an Union . 
In short , I was 'here , and I wanted an excuse for not going away from here , and I made it to my satisfaction , and stayed here . 
Monsieur P. Salcy , 'par permission de M. le Maire , had established his theatre in the whitewashed Hotel de Ville , on the steps of which illustrious edifice I stood . 
'La Famille P. SALCY , composee d'artistes dramatiques , au nombre de sujets . 
, will bring fever inside my door . 
Carts have I seen , and other agricultural instruments , unwieldy , dislocated , monstrous . 
, shut up behind a little ashy iron grate , as if it were originally put there to be cooked , and the fire had long gone out . 
Surrounded by these things , here I stood on the steps of the Hotel de Ville , persuaded to remain by the P. Salcy family , fifteen dramatic subjects strong . 
There was a Fair besides . 
The double persuasion being irresistible , and my sponge being left behind at the last Hotel , I made the tour of the little town to buy another . 
Other shops the wasps had entirely to themselves , and nobody cared and nobody came when I beat with a five franc piece upon the board of custom . 
This afforded him a final opportunity of crying and laughing and choking all at once , and sent the audience home sentimentally delighted . 
How the fifteen subjects ever got so fat upon it , the kind Heavens know . 
, resounds with the voices of the shepherds and shepherdesses who resort there this festive night . 
And it reminds me that only this afternoon , I saw a shepherd in trouble , tending this way , over the jagged stones of a neighbouring street . 
'Come in , come in ! Your opportunity presents itself to night to morrow it will be gone for ever . 
See them for the last time before their departure ! We go to commence on the instant . 
'Come in , come in ! Is there any more money , Madame , on the point of ascending ? If so , we wait for it . 
Several sous burst out of pockets , and ascend . 
'Come up , then , Messieurs ! exclaims Madame in a shrill voice , and beckoning with a bejewelled finger . 
'Come up ! This presses . 
Monsieur has commanded that they commence ! Monsieur dives into his Interior , and the last half dozen of us follow . 
His Interior is comparatively severe his Exterior also . 
A true Temple of Art needs nothing but seats , drapery , a small table with two moderator lamps hanging over it , and an ornamental looking glass let into the wall . 
Monsieur in uniform gets behind the table and surveys us with disdain , his forehead becoming diabolically intellectual under the moderators . 
'Messieurs et Mesdames , I present to you the Ventriloquist . 
He will commence with the celebrated Experience of the bee in the window . 
The bee , apparently the veritable bee of Nature , will hover in the window , and about the room . 
Achieve then , Monsieur ! Here the proprietor is replaced behind the table by the Ventriloquist , who is thin and sallow , and of a weakly aspect . 
While the bee is in progress , Monsieur the Proprietor sits apart on a stool , immersed in dark and remote thought . 
A corpulent little man in a large white waistcoat , with a comic countenance , and with a wig in his hand . 
Irreverent disposition to laugh , instantly checked by the tremendous gravity of the Face Maker , who intimates in his bow that if we expect that sort of thing we are mistaken . 
A very little shaving glass with a leg behind it is handed in , and placed on the table before the Face Maker . 
'Messieurs et Mesdames , with no other assistance than this mirror and this wig , I shall have the honour of showing you a thousand characters . 
As a preparation , the Face Maker with both hands gouges himself , and turns his mouth inside out . 
Face Maker dips behind the looking glass , brings his own hair forward , is himself again , is awfully grave . 
'A distinguished inhabitant of the Faubourg St . 
Face Maker dips , rises , is supposed to be aged , blear eyed , toothless , slightly palsied , supernaturally polite , evidently of noble birth . 
'The oldest member of the Corps of Invalides on the fete day of his master . 
would lie frightfully about his past achievements , if he were not confined to pantomime . 
'The Miser ! Face Maker dips , rises , clutches a bag , and every hair of the wig is on end to express that he lives in continual dread of thieves . 
put a top of it , Face Maker's white waistcoat much advanced , Face Maker's left hand in bosom of white waistcoat , Face Maker's right hand behind his back . 
This is the first of three positions of the Genius of France . 
In the second position , the Face Maker takes snuff in the third , rolls up his fight hand , and surveys illimitable armies through that pocket glass . 
The Face Maker then , by putting out his tongue , and wearing the wig nohow in particular , becomes the Village Idiot . 
The change was neatly effected by some extra smoking of the Russians , and by permitting the camp followers free range in the foreground to despoil the enemy of their uniforms . 
As no British troops had ever happened to be within sight when the artist took his original sketches , it followed fortunately that none were in the way now . 
The Fair wound up with a ball . 
There , in a tent prettily decorated with looking glasses and a myriad of toy flags , the people danced all night . 
It was a ball of great good humour and of great enjoyment , though very many of the dancers must have been as poor as the fifteen subjects of the P. Salcy Family . 
All wore dust coloured shoes . 
My heart beat high for , in those four male personages , although complexionless and eyebrowless , I beheld four subjects of the Family P. Salcy . 
Full of this pleasure , I shortly afterwards departed from the town , little dreaming of an addition to my good fortune . 
But more was in reserve . 
who had drawn unlucky numbers in the last conscription , and were on their way to a famous French garrison town where much of the raw military material is worked up into soldiery . 
As we went along , they were audible at every station , chorusing wildly out of tune , and feigning the highest hilarity . 
After a while , however , they began to leave off singing , and to laugh naturally , while at intervals there mingled with their laughter the barking of a dog . 
, a little military coat , and the regulation white gaiters . 
among savages often yield me matter for reflection at home . 
It is curious to trace the savage in the civilised man , and to detect the hold of some savage customs on conditions of society rather boastful of being high above them . 
I always find it extremely difficult , and I often find it simply impossible , to keep him out of my Wigwam . 
In one respect , to be sure , I am quite free from him . 
, and white and red and blue paint for the face . 
The irrationality of this particular Medicine culminates in a mock battle rush , from which many of the squaws are borne out , much dilapidated . 
I need not observe how unlike this is to a Drawing Room at St . 
The African magician I find it very difficult to exclude from my Wigwam too . 
This creature takes cases of death and mourning under his supervision , and will frequently impoverish a whole family by his preposterous enchantments . 
He is a great eater and drinker , and always conceals a rejoicing stomach under a grieving exterior . 
His charms consist of an infinite quantity of worthless scraps , for which he charges very high . 
, the more honourably and piously they grieve for the dead . 
Superstitious and wrong , but surely a more respectable superstition than the hire of antic scraps for a show that has no meaning based on any sincere belief . 
Once , I dwelt in an Italian city , where there dwelt with me for a while , an Englishman of an amiable nature , great enthusiasm , and no discretion . 
This friend discovered a desolate stranger , mourning over the unexpected death of one very dear to him , in a solitary cottage among the vineyards of an outlying village . 
The circumstances of the bereavement were unusually distressing and the survivor , new to the peasants and the country , sorely needed help , being alone with the remains . 
There was a small Protestant cemetery near the city walls , and as Mr. Kindheart came back to me , he turned into it and chose the spot . 
He was always highly flushed when rendering a service unaided , and I knew that to make him happy I must keep aloof from his ministration . 
However , Mr. Kindheart was so enraptured with his conception , that he presently wrote down into the town requesting the attendance with to morrow's earliest light of a certain little upholsterer . 
in a far more unintelligible manner than any other man alive . 
But Mr. Kindheart informed me at breakfast that measures had been taken to ensure a signal success . 
I had not walked far , when I encountered this procession . 
Mr. Kindheart , much abashed , on an immense grey horse . 
A bright yellow coach and pair , driven by a coachman in bright red velvet knee breeches and waistcoat . 
Both coach doors kept open by the coffin , which was on its side within , and sticking out at each . 
Behind the coach , the mourner , for whom the coach was intended , walking in the dust . 
Concealed behind a roadside well for the irrigation of a garden , the unintelligible Upholsterer , admiring . 
My first funeral , a fair representative funeral after its kind , was that of the husband of a married servant , once my nurse . 
, and having exclaimed , 'O here's dear Master Uncommercial ! became hysterical , and swooned as if I had been the death of her . 
An affecting scene followed , during which I was handed about and poked at her by various people , as if I were the bottle of salts . 
It made me feel uncomfortable and hypocritical besides . 
had only one idea , which was that we all wanted tea and he handed us cups of tea all round , incessantly , whether we refused or not . 
There was a young nephew of Flanders's present , to whom Flanders , it was rumoured , had left nineteen guineas . 
, because I knew that he was making game . 
to keep step with a man in a scarf , carrying a thing like a mourning spy glass , which he was going to open presently and sweep the horizon with . 
I knew that we should not all have been speaking in one particular key note struck by the undertaker , if we had not been making game . 
When we returned to Sally's , it was all of a piece . 
Real affliction , real grief and solemnity , have been outraged , and the funeral has been 'performed . 
In France , upon the whole , these ceremonies are more sensibly regulated , because they are upon the whole less expensively regulated . 
But it may be that I am constitutionally insensible to the virtues of a cocked hat . 
In provincial France , the solemnities are sufficiently hideous , but are few and cheap . 
The friends and townsmen of the departed , in their own dresses and not masquerading under the auspices of the African Conjurer , surround the hand bier , and often carry it . 
, when his fellows combine in a lugubrious stalwart drawl . 
But there is far less of the Conjurer and the Medicine Man in the business than under like circumstances here . 
The Conjurer assured me that I must positively 'follow , and both he and the Medicine Man entertained no doubt that I must go in a black carriage , and must wear 'fittings . 
I objected to fittings as having nothing to do with my friendship , and I objected to the black carriage as being in more senses than one a job . 
It is much to be hoped that no member of this facetious tribe may ever find his way to England and get committed for contempt of Court . 
These Mataboos are a privileged order , so important is their avocation , and they make the most of their high functions . 
flying out into open places and letting off guns . 
It is questionable whether our legislative assemblies might not take a hint from this . 
The uselessness of arguing with any supporter of a Government or of an Opposition , is well known . 
It is a better exercise , and has the unspeakable recommendation that it couldn't be reported . 
But this is a question of taste and ceremony , and so is the Windsor Uniform . 
The manner of entering on the business itself is another question . 
, some of which are newly founded Institutions , and some old establishments transplanted . 
I have got it into my mind that they live in a state of chronic injury and resentment , and on that account refuse to decorate the building with a human interest . 
They passed their lives in considering themselves mulcted of certain ounces of tea by a deaf old steward who lived among them in the quadrangle . 
But it is neither to old Alms Houses in the country , nor to new Alms Houses by the railroad , that these present Uncommercial notes relate . 
Sometimes , these Alms Houses belong to a Company or Society . 
Sometimes , they were established by individuals , and are maintained out of private funds bequeathed in perpetuity long ago . 
My favourite among them is Titbull's , which establishment is a picture of many . 
Titbull's Alms Houses are in the east of London , in a great highway , in a poor , busy , and thronged neighbourhood . 
I take the ground to have risen in those parts since Titbull's time , and you drop into his domain by three stone steps . 
'And a worse one , said a virulent old man with a pitcher , 'there isn't nowhere . 
It had also that peculiar smell of cupboard which seems to come of poverty . 
'The pump is rusty , perhaps , said I. 'Not IT , said the old man , regarding it with undiluted virulence in his watery eye . 
'It never were fit to be termed a pump . 
That's what's the matter with IT . 
'What gentlemen ? 'Maybe you're one of 'em ? said the old man , suspiciously . 
'The trustees ? 'I wouldn't trust 'em myself , said the virulent old man . 
'If you mean the gentlemen who administer this place , no , I am not one of them nor have I ever so much as heard of them . 
'Was you looking for anything , sir ? asked a tidy , well favoured woman . 
Really , no I couldn't say I was . 
'Oh ! HIS name is Mr. Battens , said the tidy woman , dropping her voice . 
'I have just been talking with him . 
'Indeed ? said the tidy woman . 
The door opening at once into the room without any intervening entry , even scandal must have been silenced by the precaution . 
It was a gloomy little chamber , but clean , and with a mug of wallflower in the window . 
'He is alive , I hope ? 'No , sir , said the widow , 'he were cast away in China . 
This was said with a modest sense of its reflecting a certain geographical distinction on his mother . 
'If the old gentlemen here are not given to talking , said I , 'I hope the old ladies are ? not that you are one . 
'You see they get so cross . 
And Mr. Battens he do even go so far as to doubt whether credit is due to the Founder . 
For Mr. Battens he do say , anyhow he got his name up by it and he done it cheap . 
'I am afraid the pump has soured Mr. Battens . 
'It may be so , returned the tidy widow , 'but the handle does go very hard . 
But Mrs. Saggers is very hard upon them . 
Saggers is the oldest here ? 'The oldest but one . 
Mrs. Quinch being the oldest , and have totally lost her head . 
'And you ? 'I am the youngest in residence , and consequently am not looked up to . 
But when Mrs. Quinch makes a happy release , there will be one below me . 
Nor is it to be expected that Mrs. Saggers will prove herself immortal . 
'Regarding the old gentlemen , said my widow slightingly , 'they count among themselves . 
They do not count among us . 
Mr. Battens is that exceptional that he have written to the gentlemen many times and have worked the case against them . 
Therefore he have took a higher ground . 
But we do not , as a rule , greatly reckon the old gentlemen . 
A gentleman or lady receiving visitors from without , or going out to tea , counts , as it were , accordingly but visitings or tea drinkings interchanged among Titbullians do not score . 
They make the best of their reverses , and are looked upon with great contempt . 
They are little , stooping , blear eyed old men of cheerful countenance , and they hobble up and down the court yard wagging their chins and talking together quite gaily . 
This has given offence , and has , moreover , raised the question whether they are justified in passing any other windows than their own . 
Mr. Battens , however , permitting them to pass HIS windows , on the disdainful ground that their imbecility almost amounts to irresponsibility , they are allowed to take their walk in peace . 
, and they play cribbage at night . 
They are understood to be perfectly friendless and relationless . 
the subjects of unmitigated contempt there . 
Mrs. Saggers has her celebrated palpitations of the heart , for the most part , on Saturday nights . 
But Titbull's is unfit to strive with the uproar of the streets in any of its phases . 
and the penny postage may even yet be unknown there , for I have never seen a letter delivered to any inhabitant . 
with blushes , for months afterwards . 
Herein Titbull's was to Titbull's true , for it has a constitutional dislike of all strangers . 
As concerning innovations and improvements , it is always of opinion that what it doesn't want itself , nobody ought to want . 
But I think I have met with this opinion outside Titbull's . 
Generally an antiquated chest of drawers is among their cherished possessions a tea tray always is . 
Among the poor old gentlemen there are no such niceties . 
When I recall one old gentleman who is rather choice in his shoe brushes and blacking bottle , I have summed up the domestic elegances of that side of the building . 
Judging by Titbull's , I should say the human race need never die , if they took care . 
But they don't take care , and they do die , and when they die in Titbull's they are buried at the cost of the Foundation . 
Resignation of a dwelling is of very rare occurrence in Titbull's . 
But I have been unable to substantiate it by any evidence , and regard it as an Alms House Fairy Tale . 
It is curious that the only proved case of resignation happened within my knowledge . 
It happened on this wise . 
In these circumstances much excitement was one day occasioned by Mrs. Mitts receiving a visit from a Greenwich Pensioner . 
Heard a smack which was not a blow . 
There was an air about this Greenwich Pensioner when he took his departure , which imbued all Titbull's with the conviction that he was coming again . 
He was eagerly looked for , and Mrs. Mitts was closely watched . 
They were well shrunken already , but they shrunk to nothing in comparison with the Pensioner . 
Before three weeks were out , the Pensioner reappeared . 
Again he knocked at Mrs. Mitts's door with the handle of his stick , and again was he admitted . 
It was agreed that Mr. Battens 'ought to take it up , and Mr. Battens was communicated with on the subject . 
That unsatisfactory individual replied 'that he didn't see his way yet , and it was unanimously voted by the ladies that aggravation was in his nature . 
How it came to pass , with some appearance of inconsistency , that Mrs. Mitts was cut by all the ladies and the Pensioner admired by all the ladies , matters not . 
Before another week was out , Titbull's was startled by another phenomenon . 
At ten o'clock in the forenoon appeared a cab , containing not only the Greenwich Pensioner with one arm , but , to boot , a Chelsea Pensioner with one leg . 
Thus the equipage drove away . 
No Mrs. Mitts returned that night . 
What Mr. Battens might have done in the matter of taking it up , goaded by the infuriated state of public feeling next morning , was anticipated by another phenomenon . 
A Truck , propelled by the Greenwich Pensioner and the Chelsea Pensioner , each placidly smoking a pipe , and pushing his warrior breast against the handle . 
Nevertheless , my stray visits to Titbull's since the date of this occurrence , have confirmed me in an impression that it was a wholesome fillip . 
The nine ladies are smarter , both in mind and dress , than they used to be , though it must be admitted that they despise the six gentlemen to the last extent . 
They have a much greater interest in the external thoroughfare too , than they had when I first knew Titbull's . 
As a proved notorious Thief he is always consignable to prison for three months . 
When he comes out , he is surely as notorious a Thief as he was when he went in . 
Then send him back again . 
'Just Heaven ! cries the Society for the protection of remonstrant Ruffians . 
'This is equivalent to a sentence of perpetual imprisonment ! Precisely for that reason it has my advocacy . 
I demand to have the Ruffian kept out of my way , and out of the way of all decent people . 
If this be termed an unreasonable demand , then the tax gatherer's demand on me must be far more unreasonable , and cannot be otherwise than extortionate and unjust . 
It will be seen that I treat of the Thief and Ruffian as one . 
I do so , because I know the two characters to be one , in the vast majority of cases , just as well as the Police know it . 
There are disorderly classes of men who are not thieves as railway navigators , brickmakers , wood sawyers , costermongers . 
These classes are often disorderly and troublesome but it is mostly among themselves , and at any rate they have their industrious avocations , they work early and late , and work hard . 
The generic Ruffian honourable member for what is tenderly called the Rough Element is either a Thief , or the companion of Thieves . 
When he gets a police constable down and kicks him helpless for life , it is because that constable once did his duty in bringing him to justice . 
Always a Ruffian , always a Thief . 
Always a Thief , always a Ruffian . 
His hands are in his pockets . 
This fellow looks like an executed postboy of other days , cut down from the gallows too soon , and restored and preserved by express diabolical agency . 
In all the party there obtains a certain twitching character of mouth and furtiveness of eye , that hint how the coward is lurking under the bully . 
These engaging gentry a Police constable stands contemplating . 
His Station , with a Reserve of assistance , is very near at hand . 
They cannot pretend to any trade , not even to be porters or messengers . 
It would be idle if they did , for he knows them , and they know that he knows them , to be nothing but professed Thieves and Ruffians . 
He knows where they resort , knows by what slang names they call one another , knows how often they have been in prison , and how long , and for what . 
known at Scotland Yard , too . 
The consequences of this contemplative habit on the part of the Executive a habit to be looked for in a hermit , but not in a Police System are familiar to us all . 
The Ruffian becomes one of the established orders of the body politic . 
his movements and successes are recorded on public occasions . 
Constabular contemplation had until then been the order of the day . 
CARLYLE , some time since , awakened a little pleasantry by writing of his own experience of the Ruffian of the streets . 
I have seen the Ruffian act in exact accordance with Mr. Carlyle's description , innumerable times , and I never saw him checked . 
Looking afterwards into the newest Police Act , and finding that the offence was punishable under it , I resolved , when striking occasion should arise , to try my hand as prosecutor . 
The occasion arose soon enough , and I ran the following gauntlet . 
She had turned round to me and expressed herself in the most audible manner , to the great delight of that select circle . 
I attended the party , on the opposite side of the way , for a mile further , and then encountered a Police constable . 
The party had made themselves merry at my expense until now , but seeing me speak to the constable , its male members instantly took to their heels , leaving the girl alone . 
I asked the constable did he know my name ? Yes , he did . 
'Take that girl into custody , on my charge , for using bad language in the streets . 
He had never heard of such a charge . 
Would he take my word that he should get into no trouble ? Yes , sir , he would do that . 
So he took the girl , and I went home for my Police Act . 
With this potent instrument in my pocket , I literally as well as figuratively 'returned to the charge , and presented myself at the Police Station of the district . 
, who , likewise , had never heard of such a charge . 
I showed him my clause , and we went over it together twice or thrice . 
It was plain , and I engaged to wait upon the suburban Magistrate to morrow morning at ten o'clock . 
In the morning I put my Police Act in my pocket again , and waited on the suburban Magistrate . 
Which was enough for ME . 
Conference took place between the Magistrate and clerk respecting the charge . 
During conference I was evidently regarded as a much more objectionable person than the prisoner one giving trouble by coming there voluntarily , which the prisoner could not be accused of doing . 
The prisoner had been got up , since I last had the pleasure of seeing her , with a great effect of white apron and straw bonnet . 
She reminded me of an elder sister of Red Riding Hood , and I seemed to remind the sympathising Chimney Sweep by whom she was attended , of the Wolf . 
The Magistrate was doubtful , Mr. Uncommercial Traveller , whether this charge could be entertained . 
Mr. Uncommercial Traveller replied that he wished it were better known , and that , if he could afford the leisure , he would use his endeavours to make it so . 
There was no question about it , however , he contended . 
The clause was handed in , and more conference resulted . 
After which I was asked the extraordinary question 'Mr . 
She comes from Charles Street , Drury Lane ! The Police , all things considered , are an excellent force , and I have borne my small testimony to their merits . 
Constabular contemplation is the result of a bad system a system which is administered , not invented , by the man in constable's uniform , employed at twenty shillings a week . 
He has his orders , and would be marked for discouragement if he overstepped them . 
That the system is bad , there needs no lengthened argument to prove , because the fact is self evident . 
If it were anything else , the results that have attended it could not possibly have come to pass . 
It is well known that on all great occasions , when they come together in numbers , the mass of the English people are their own trustworthy Police . 
that we are not to take the law into our own hands , but are to hand our defence over to it . 
It is clear that the common enemy to be punished and exterminated first of all is the Ruffian . 
It is clear that he is , of all others , THE offender for whose repressal we maintain a costly system of Police . 
Him , therefore , we expressly present to the Police to deal with , conscious that , on the whole , we can , and do , deal reasonably well with one another . 
I remain in the same idle employment . 
I never solicit an order , I never get any commission , I am the rolling stone that gathers no moss , unless any should by chance be found among these samples . 
Of all the good ships afloat , mine was the good steamship 'RUSSIA , CAPT . 
COOK , Cunard Line , bound for Liverpool . 
What more could I wish for ? I had nothing to wish for but a prosperous passage . 
My salad days , when I was green of visage and sea sick , being gone with better things , no coming event cast its shadow before . 
I was resting on a skylight on the hurricane deck , watching the working of the ship very slowly about , that she might head for England . 
It was high noon on a most brilliant day in April , and the beautiful bay was glorious and glowing . 
The ship was fragrant with flowers . 
These delicious scents of the shore , mingling with the fresh airs of the sea , made the atmosphere a dreamy , an enchanting one . 
As , for instance , whether it was I lying there , or some other entity even more mysterious , was a matter I was far too lazy to look into . 
Perhaps on the passage out . 
But then arose a set of circumstances so rampantly comical , that no check which the gravest intentions could put upon them would hold them in hand . 
Some seventy passengers assembled at the saloon tables . 
Rumour has related that a modest young clergyman on board has responded to the captain's request that he will officiate . 
Pause again , and very heavy rolling . 
Closed double doors suddenly burst open , and two strong stewards skate in , supporting minister between them . 
General appearance as of somebody picked up drunk and incapable , and under conveyance to station house . 
Stoppage , pause , and particularly heavy rolling . 
Desk portable , sliding away down a long table , and aiming itself at the breasts of various members of the congregation . 
Utmost point of dissent soon attained in every corner , and violent rolling . 
There was another Sunday , when an officer of the ship read the service . 
It was quiet and impressive , until we fell upon the dangerous and perfectly unnecessary experiment of striking up a hymn . 
After it was given out , we all rose , but everybody left it to somebody else to begin . 
, and blithely warbled us into a show of joining . 
I think it would do them good to smell the rum , under the circumstances . 
Over the grog , mixed in a bucket , presides the boatswain's mate , small tin can in hand . 
Enter the crew , the guilty consumers , the grown up brood of Giant Despair , in contradistinction to the band of youthful angel Hope . 
Each man's knife in its sheath in his girdle , loosened for dinner . 
Any enormous giant at a prodigious hydropathic establishment , conscientiously undergoing the water cure in all its departments , and extremely particular about cleaning his teeth , would make those noises . 
Swash , splash , scrub , rub , toothbrush , bubble , swash , splash , bubble , toothbrush , splash , splash , bubble , rub . 
And now , lying down again , awaiting the season for broiled ham and tea , I would be compelled to listen to the voice of conscience , the screw . 
It might be , in some cases , no more than the voice of stomach but I called it in my fancy by the higher name . 
Because it seemed to me that we were all of us , all day long , endeavouring to stifle the voice . 
Because it was under everybody's pillow , everybody's plate , everybody's camp stool , everybody's book , everybody's occupation . 
ill bred to acknowledge the voice of conscience . 
It was not polite to mention it . 
The ceremony of washing plates on deck , performed after every meal by a circle as of ringers of crockery triple bob majors for a prize , would keep it down . 
But the instant any break or pause took place in any such diversion , the voice would be at it again , importuning us to the last extent . 
Lights out , we in our berths , and the wind rising , the voice grows angrier and deeper . 
And now the ship sets in rolling , as only ships so fiercely screwed through time and space , day and night , fair weather and foul , CAN roll . 
Are we ever coming up again together ? I think not the partition and I are so long about it that I really do believe we have overdone it this time . 
to force me out of bed and berth . 
'All's well ! Comforting to know , though surely all might be better . 
Put aside the rolling and the rush of water , and think of darting through such darkness with such velocity . 
Everybody has seemed under a spell , compelling approach to the threshold of the grim subject , stoppage , discomfiture , and pretence of never having been near it . 
The boatswain's whistle sounds ! A change in the wind , hoarse orders issuing , and the watch very busy . 
ditto every man engaged appears to have twenty feet , with twenty times the average amount of stamping power in each . 
So I stood watch on deck all night to night , to see how we made the coast of Ireland . 
Very dark , and the sea most brilliantly phosphorescent . 
Great way on the ship , and double look out kept . 
No passengers on the quiet decks , but expectation everywhere nevertheless . 
The two men at the wheel very steady , very serious , and very prompt to answer orders . 
An order issued sharply now and then , and echoed back otherwise the night drags slowly , silently , with no change . 
A sullen solitary light is pointed out to me in the black sky yonder . 
A change is expected in the light , but none takes place . 
'Give them two more rockets , Mr. Vigilant . 
Two more , and a blue light burnt . 
All eyes watch the light again . 
The light begins to be gained upon , begins to be alongside , begins to be left astern . 
More rockets , and , between us and the land , steams beautifully the Inman steamship City of Paris , for New York , outward bound . 
We observe with complacency that the wind is dead against her , and that she rolls and pitches . 
Time rushes by as we rush on and now we see the light in Queenstown Harbour , and now the lights of the mail tender coming out to us . 
All the while the unfortunate tender plunges high and low , and is roared at . 
Roared at with contumely to the last , this wretched tender is at length let go , with a final plunge of great ignominy , and falls spinning into our wake . 
, and past the Welsh coast , and past the Cheshire coast , and past everything and everywhere lying between our ship and her own special dock in the Mersey . 
Off which , at last , at nine of the clock , on a fair evening early in May , we stopped , and the voice ceased . 
and surveyed the outer hull of the gracious monster that the voice had inhabited . 
So , perhaps , shall we all , in the spirit , one day survey the frame that held the busier voice from which my vagrant fancy derived this similitude . 
The weird skeleton rattled along the streets before me , and struck fiercely but it was never at the pains of assuming a disguise . 
It was simply a bare , gaunt , famished skeleton , slaying his way along . 
The borders of Ratcliff and Stepney , eastward of London , and giving on the impure river , were the scene of this uncompromising dance of death , upon a drizzling November day . 
A squalid maze of streets , courts , and alleys of miserable houses let out in single rooms . 
A wilderness of dirt , rags , and hunger . 
A mud desert , chiefly inhabited by a tribe from whom employment has departed , or to whom it comes but fitfully and rarely . 
They are not skilled mechanics in any wise . 
They are but labourers , dock labourers , water side labourers , coal porters , ballast heavers , such like hewers of wood and drawers of water . 
But they have come into existence , and they propagate their wretched race . 
One grisly joke alone , methought , the skeleton seemed to play off here . 
It had stuck election bills on the walls , which the wind and rain had deteriorated into suitable rags . 
It had even summed up the state of the poll , in chalk , on the shutters of one ruined house . 
but , by returning Thisman and Thatman , each naught without the other , to compound a glorious and immortal whole . 
It was a dark street with a dead wall on one side . 
Nearly all the outer doors of the houses stood open . 
I took the first entry , and knocked at a parlour door . 
Might I come in ? I might , if I plased , sur . 
had picked up some long strips of wood , about some wharf or barge and they had just now been thrust into the otherwise empty grate to make two iron pots boil . 
There was some fish in one , and there were some potatoes in the other . 
The flare of the burning wood enabled me to see a table , and a broken chair or so , and some old cheap crockery ornaments about the chimney piece . 
There was something thrown upon it and I asked what that was . 
'The what ? 'The lead , sur . 
Knowing that I could compensate myself thereafter for my self denial , if I saw fit , I had resolved that I would give nothing in the course of these visits . 
I did this to try the people . 
The woman's married daughter had by this time come down from her room on the floor above , to join in the conversation . 
She herself had been to the lead mills very early that morning to be 'took on , but had not succeeded . 
She had four children and her husband , also a water side labourer , and then out seeking work , seemed in no better case as to finding it than her father . 
She was English , and by nature , of a buxom figure and cheerful . 
Both in her poor dress and in her mother's there was an effort to keep up some appearance of neatness . 
The very smell when you stood inside the door of the works was enough to knock you down , she said yet she was going back again to get 'took on . 
What could she do ? Better be ulcerated and paralysed for eighteen pence a day , while it lasted , than see the children starve . 
A dark and squalid cupboard in this room , touching the back door and all manner of offence , had been for some time the sleeping place of the sick young woman . 
But the nights being now wintry , and the blankets and coverlets 'gone to the leaving shop , she lay all night where she lay all day , and was lying then . 
The woman of the room , her husband , this most miserable patient , and two others , lay on the one brown heap together for warmth . 
'God bless you , sir , and thank you ! were the parting words from these people , gratefully spoken too , with which I left this place . 
Some streets away , I tapped at another parlour door on another ground floor . 
There was a very scanty cinderous fire in the grate by which they sat and there was a tent bedstead in the room with a bed upon it and a coverlet . 
The wife , an intelligent , quick woman , rose and stood at her husband's elbow and he glanced up at her as if for help . 
It soon appeared that he was rather deaf . 
He was a slow , simple fellow of about thirty . 
'He ain't a mechanic , you understand , sir , the wife put in 'he's only a labourer . 
'Are you in work ? He looked up at his wife again . 
The cheery helpfulness of the wife was very remarkable . 
She did slop work made pea jackets . 
She produced the pea jacket then in hand , and spread it out upon the bed , the only piece of furniture in the room on which to spread it . 
She showed how much of it she made , and how much was afterwards finished off by the machine . 
But , you see , it come to her through two hands , and of course it didn't come through the second hand for nothing . 
Why did it come through the second hand at all ? Why , this way . 
The second hand took the risk of the given out work , you see . 
But , having no money at all , the second hand come in and took its profit , and so the whole worked down to tenpence half penny . 
When I left the room , the boiler maker's eyes were slowly turned towards her , as if his last hope of ever again seeing that vanished boiler lay in her direction . 
These people had never applied for parish relief but once and that was when the husband met with a disabling accident at his work . 
Not many doors from here , I went into a room on the first floor . 
The woman apologised for its being in 'an untidy mess . 
The day was Saturday , and she was boiling the children's clothes in a saucepan on the hearth . 
There was nothing else into which she could have put them . 
There was no crockery , or tinware , or tub , or bucket . 
There was an old gallipot or two , and there was a broken bottle or so , and there were some broken boxes for seats . 
The last small scraping of coals left was raked together in a corner of the floor . 
There were some rags in an open cupboard , also on the floor . 
The room was perfectly black . 
It was difficult to believe , at first , that it was not purposely coloured black , the walls were so begrimed . 
A child stood looking on . 
On the box nearest to the fire sat two younger children one a delicate and pretty little creature , whom the other sometimes kissed . 
This woman , like the last , was wofully shabby , and was degenerating to the Bosjesman complexion . 
'May I ask you what your husband is ? 'He's a coal porter , sir , with a glance and a sigh towards the bed . 
'Is he out of work ? 'Oh , yes , sir ! and work's at all times very , very scanty with him and now he's laid up . 
'It's my legs , said the man upon the bed . 
'Have you any older children ? 'I have a daughter that does the needle work , and I have a son that does what he can . 
She's at her work now , and he's trying for work . 
'Do they live here ? 'They sleep here . 
They can't afford to pay more rent , and so they come here at night . 
The rent is very hard upon us . 
It's rose upon us too , now , sixpence a week , on account of these new changes in the law , about the rates . 
We are a week behind the landlord's been shaking and rattling at that door frightfully he says he'll turn us out . 
I don't know what's to come of it . 
The man upon the bed ruefully interposed , 'Here's my legs . 
The skin's broke , besides the swelling . 
I have had a many kicks , working , one way and another . 
'Do your eldest son and daughter sleep in that cupboard ? 'Yes , replied the woman . 
'With the children ? 'Yes . 
We have to get together for warmth . 
We have little to cover us . 
'Have you nothing by you to eat but the piece of bread I see there ? 'Nothing . 
And we had the rest of the loaf for our breakfast , with water . 
I don't know what's to come of it . 
'Have you no prospect of improvement ? 'If my eldest son earns anything to day , he'll bring it home . 
Then we shall have something to eat to night , and may be able to do something towards the rent . 
If not , I don't know what's to come of it . 
'This is a sad state of things . 
'Yes , sir it's a hard , hard life . 
I could enter no other houses for that one while , for I could not bear the contemplation of the children . 
Such heart as I had summoned to sustain me against the miseries of the adults failed me when I looked at the children . 
I saw how young they were , how hungry , how serious and still . 
I thought of them , sick and dying in those lairs . 
I think of them dead without anguish but to think of them so suffering and so dying quite unmanned me . 
I could scarcely have seen an inscription better suited to my frame of mind and I went across and went straight in . 
I found the children's hospital established in an old sail loft or storehouse , of the roughest nature , and on the simplest means . 
But I found it airy , sweet , and clean . 
One baby mite there was as pretty as any of Raphael's angels . 
The smooth curve of the cheeks and of the chin was faultless in its condensation of infantine beauty , and the large bright eyes were most lovely . 
They remained fixed on mine , and never turned from me while I stood there . 
When the utterance of that plaintive sound shook the little form , the gaze still remained unchanged . 
I felt as though the child implored me to tell the story of the little hospital in which it was sheltered to any gentle heart I could address . 
Laying my world worn hand upon the little unmarked clasped hand at the chin , I gave it a silent promise that I would do so . 
They live in the hospital itself , and their rooms are on its first floor . 
Sitting at their dinner table , they could hear the cry of one of the children in pain . 
The lady's piano , drawing materials , books , and other such evidences of refinement are as much a part of the rough place as the iron bedsteads of the little patients . 
They are put to shifts for room , like passengers on board ship . 
sleeps in a recess in the dining room , and has his washing apparatus in the sideboard . 
That was my presentation to a perambulator , for which a coach house had been discovered in a corner down stairs , just large enough to hold it . 
was found characteristically starving at the door of the institution , and was taken in and fed , and has lived here ever since . 
An admirer of his mental endowments has presented him with a collar bearing the legend , 'Judge not Poodles by external appearances . 
He was merrily wagging his tail on a boy's pillow when he made this modest appeal to me . 
They soon came to understand the case better , and have much increased in gratitude . 
The mothers of the patients avail themselves very freely of the visiting rules the fathers often on Sundays . 
tendency in the parents to take a child away to its wretched home , if on the point of death . 
Insufficient food and unwholesome living are the main causes of disease among these small patients . 
So nourishment , cleanliness , and ventilation are the main remedies . 
Discharged patients are looked after , and invited to come and dine now and then so are certain famishing creatures who were never patients . 
The nurses of this hospital are all young , ranging , say , from nineteen to four and twenty . 
They have even within these narrow limits , what many well endowed hospitals would not give them , a comfortable room of their own in which to take their meals . 
It is a beautiful truth , that interest in the children and sympathy with their sorrows bind these young women to their places far more strongly than any other consideration could . 
The best skilled of the nurses came originally from a kindred neighbourhood , almost as poor and she knew how much the work was needed . 
She is a fair dressmaker . 
'No , she said she could never be so useful or so happy elsewhere any more she must stay among the children . 
One of the nurses , as I passed her , was washing a baby boy . 
The melting of the pleasant face into delighted smiles , as this young gentleman gave an unexpected kick , and laughed at me , was almost worth my previous pain . 
An affecting play was acted in Paris years ago , called 'The Children's Doctor . 
But no romancer that I know of has had the boldness to prefigure the life and home of this young husband and young wife in the Children's Hospital in the east of London . 
I came away from Ratcliff by the Stepney railway station to the terminus at Fenchurch Street . 
Any one who will reverse that route may retrace my steps . 
Let the place of seaside resort be , for the nonce , called Namelesston . 
Says Bullfinch , 'I have a proposal to make . 
Let us dine at the Temeraire . 
I asked Bullfinch , did he recommend the Temeraire ? inasmuch as I had not been rated on the books of the Temeraire for many years . 
Bullfinch declined to accept the responsibility of recommending the Temeraire , but on the whole was rather sanguine about it . 
He 'seemed to remember , Bullfinch said , that he had dined well there . 
A plain dinner , but good . 
, but of its kind very fair . 
Bullfinch doing me the honour to respond in the affirmative , I agreed to ship myself as an able trencherman on board the Temeraire . 
'Now , our plan shall be this , says Bullfinch , with his forefinger at his nose . 
'As soon as we get to Namelesston , we'll drive straight to the Temeraire , and order a little dinner in an hour . 
then began to babble of green geese . 
But I checked him in that Falstaffian vein , urging considerations of time and cookery . 
In due sequence of events we drove up to the Temeraire , and alighted . 
A youth in livery received us on the door step . 
'Looks well , said Bullfinch confidentially . 
conducted us to the desired haven , and was enjoined by Bullfinch to send the waiter at once , as we wished to order a little dinner in an hour . 
'Waiter , said Bullfinch piteously , 'we have been a long time waiting . 
The waiter who ought to wait upon us laid the blame upon the waiter who ought not to wait upon us , and said it was all that waiter's fault . 
'We wish , said Bullfinch , much depressed , 'to order a little dinner in an hour . 
We could have mock turtle soup , a sole , curry , and roast duck . 
At this table by this window . 
I now pointed out to Bullfinch the alarming circumstance that this traveller had DINED . 
But I also hold that there is no more certain index to personal character than the condition of a set of casters is to the character of any hotel . 
We went out to transact our business . 
We began to consider that perhaps the lonely traveller had taken physic , or done something injudicious to bring his complaint on . 
Pretty girls on horseback , and with detested riding masters pretty girls on foot mature ladies in hats , spectacled , strong minded , and glaring at the opposite or weaker sex . 
The Stock Exchange was strongly represented , Jerusalem was strongly represented , the bores of the prosier London clubs were strongly represented . 
Such is the unchanging manner of life with this nursery of our hardy seamen and very dry nurses they are , and always wanting something to drink . 
, who carried him about in a hamper , and pressed the scientific to look in at the lid . 
The sands of the hour had all run out when we got back to the Temeraire . 
'Waiter ! said a severe diner , lately finished , perusing his bill fiercely through his eye glass . 
The waiter put down our tureen on a remote side table , and went to see what was amiss in this new direction . 
'This is not right , you know , waiter . 
Look here ! here's yesterday's sherry , one and eightpence , and here we are again , two shillings . 
And what does sixpence mean ? So far from knowing what sixpence meant , the waiter protested that he didn't know what anything meant . 
He wiped the perspiration from his clammy brow , and said it was impossible to do it , not particularising what , and the kitchen was so far off . 
'Take the bill to the bar , and get it altered , said Mr. Indignation Cocker , so to call him . 
'I tell you again , said Mr. Indignation Cocker , 'here's yesterday's sherry can't you see it ? one and eightpence , and here we are again , two shillings . 
'It's quite impossible to do it , gentlemen , murmured the waiter 'and the kitchen is so far off . 
'Well , you don't keep the house it's not your fault , we suppose . 
'Waiter ! from Mr. Indignation Cocker , with a new and burning sense of injury upon him . 
The waiter , arrested on his way to our sherry , stopped short , and came back to see what was wrong now . 
'Will you look here ? This is worse than before . 
DO you understand ? Here's yesterday's sherry , one and eightpence , and here we are again two shillings . 
And what the devil does ninepence mean ? This new portent utterly confounded the waiter . 
He wrung his napkin , and mutely appealed to the ceiling . 
'Waiter , fetch that sherry , says Bullfinch , in open wrath and revolt . 
'I want to know , persisted Mr. Indignation Cocker , 'the meaning of ninepence . 
I want to know the meaning of sherry one and eightpence yesterday , and of here we are again two shillings . 
The distracted waiter got out of the room on pretext of sending somebody , and by that means got our wine . 
But the instant he appeared with our decanter , Mr. Indignation Cocker descended on him again . 
'Waiter ! 'You will now have the goodness to attend to our dinner , waiter , said Bullfinch , sternly . 
'I am very sorry , but it's quite impossible to do it , gentlemen , pleaded the waiter 'and the kitchen 'Waiter ! said Mr. Indignation Cocker . 
Is , resumed the waiter , 'so far off , that 'Waiter ! persisted Mr. Indignation Cocker , 'send somebody . 
Here's yesterday's sherry one and eightpence , and here we are again two shillings . 
And how do you explain ninepence ? However it was explained , in tones too soft to be overheard . 
Mr. Cocker was heard to say nothing more than 'Ah h h ! Indeed thank you ! Yes , and shortly afterwards went out , a milder man . 
The lonely traveller with the stomach ache had all this time suffered severely , drawing up a leg now and then , and sipping hot brandy and water with grated ginger in it . 
of miscellaneous kitchen stuff rolled into balls , we were inclined to trace his disorder to that source . 
On the other hand , there was a silent anguish upon him too strongly resembling the results established within ourselves by the sherry , to be discarded from alarmed consideration . 
And when the curry made its appearance he suddenly retired in great disorder . 
we paid only seven shillings and sixpence each . 
And Bullfinch and I agreed unanimously , that no such ill served , ill appointed , ill cooked , nasty little dinner could be got for the money anywhere else under the sun . 
to gang nae mair to the flabby Temeraire . 
The instructive monomaniac , Mr. Barlow , will be remembered as the tutor of Master Harry Sandford and Master Tommy Merton . 
He knew everything , and didactically improved all sorts of occasions , from the consumption of a plate of cherries to the contemplation of a starlight night . 
What youth came to without Mr. Barlow was displayed in the history of Sandford and Merton , by the example of a certain awful Master Mash . 
, and was a frightful instance of the enervating effects of luxury upon the human race . 
I will proceed to set forth a few of the injuries he has done me . 
In the first place , he never made or took a joke . 
, when he banished some unlucky joker from Athens . 
What right had he to bore his way into my Arabian Nights ? Yet he did . 
He was always hinting doubts of the veracity of Sindbad the Sailor . 
He would have proved , by map and compass , that there was no such kingdom as the delightful kingdom of Casgar , on the frontiers of Tartary . 
The golden sounds of the overture to the first metropolitan pantomime , I remember , were alloyed by Mr. Barlow . 
That I am particularly ignorant what most things in the universe are made of , and how they are made , is another of my charges against Mr. Barlow . 
That I consorted with idlers and dunces is another of the melancholy facts for which I hold Mr. Barlow responsible . 
That pragmatical prig , Harry , became so detestable in my sight , that , he being reported studious in the South , I would have fled idle to the extremest North . 
Thought I , with a shudder , 'Mr . 
Barlow is a bore , with an immense constructive power of making bores . 
His prize specimen is a bore . 
He seeks to make a bore of me . 
That knowledge is power I am not prepared to gainsay but , with Mr. Barlow , knowledge is power to bore . 
Therefore I took refuge in the caves of ignorance , wherein I have resided ever since , and which are still my private address . 
Irrepressible , instructive monomaniac , Mr. Barlow fills my life with pitfalls , and lies hiding at the bottom to burst out upon me when I least expect him . 
A few of these dismal experiences of mine shall suffice . 
, I systematically shun pictorial entertainment on rollers . 
But such is the designing nature of the man , that he steals in where no reasoning precaution or provision could expect him . 
As in the following case Adjoining the Caves of Ignorance is a country town . 
In this country town the Mississippi Momuses , nine in number , were announced to appear in the town hall , for the general delectation , this last Christmas week . 
Knowing Mr. Barlow to be unconnected with the Mississippi , though holding republican opinions , and deeming myself secure , I took a stall . 
All the nine rolled their eyes exceedingly , and had very red lips . 
At the extremities of the curve they formed , seated in their chairs , were the performers on the tambourine and bones . 
, performed on a Mississippi instrument closely resembling what was once called in this island a hurdy gurdy . 
The Momuses on either side of him had each another instrument peculiar to the Father of Waters , which may be likened to a stringed weather glass held upside down . 
There were likewise a little flute and a violin . 
It was a burlesque that I saw performed an uncompromising burlesque , where everybody concerned , but especially the ladies , carried on at a very considerable rate indeed . 
a young lady of a pretty figure . 
She was dressed as a picturesque young gentleman , whose pantaloons had been cut off in their infancy and she had very neat knees and very neat satin boots . 
But whatever it is , be certain that it always tends to the exaltation of Mr. Barlow , and the depression of his enforced and enslaved pupil . 
Mr. Barlow's knowledge of my own pursuits I find to be so profound , that my own knowledge of them becomes as nothing . 
He makes me a Promethean Tommy , bound and he is the vulture that gorges itself upon the liver of my uninstructed mind . 
CHAPTER XXXV ON AN AMATEUR BEAT It is one of my fancies , that even my idlest walk must always have its appointed destination . 
On such an occasion , it is my habit to regard my walk as my beat , and myself as a higher sort of police constable doing duty on the same . 
, I went on duty with a consideration which I respectfully offer to the new Chief Commissioner , in whom I thoroughly confide as a tried and efficient public servant . 
There seemed to be some unlucky inconsistency in the atmosphere that day for though the proportions of St . 
Paul's Cathedral are very beautiful , it had an air of being somewhat out of drawing , in my eyes . 
I felt as though the cross were too high up , and perched upon the intervening golden ball too far away . 
All this as if specially ordered and appointed . 
Slight changes steal over her for there is a shadowy suggestion of human skin on them now . 
The Strand may be taken as the central point about which she revolves in a half mile orbit . 
How comes she so far east as this ? And coming back too ! Having been how much farther ? She is a rare spectacle in this neighbourhood . 
, as the circumstance that it has within itself the means of locomotion . 
He stops , pricks his ears higher , makes a slight point , stares , utters a short , low growl , and glistens at the nose , as I conceive with terror . 
After much hesitation , it occurs to him that there may be a face in it somewhere . 
The Children's Hospital , to which I gave that name , is in full force . 
All its beds are occupied . 
There is a new face on the bed where my pretty baby lay , and that sweet little child is now at rest for ever . 
Much kind sympathy has been here since my former visit , and it is good to see the walls profusely garnished with dolls . 
I wonder what Poodles may think of them , as they stretch out their arms above the beds , and stare , and display their splendid dresses . 
Poodles has a greater interest in the patients . 
Poodles is anxious to make me known to a pretty little girl looking wonderfully healthy , who had had a leg taken off for cancer of the knee . 
I never saw anything in doggery finer than the deportment of Poodles , when another little girl opens her mouth to show a peculiar enlargement of the tongue . 
so very gravely and knowingly , that I feel inclined to put my hand in my waistcoat pocket , and give him a guinea , wrapped in paper . 
On my beat again , and close to Limehouse Church , its termination , I found myself near to certain 'Lead Mills . 
The purport of such works is the conversion of pig lead into white lead . 
This conversion is brought about by the slow and gradual effecting of certain successive chemical changes in the lead itself . 
In other cocklofts , where the pots were being exhumed , the heat of the steaming tan was much greater , and the smell was penetrating and peculiar . 
Some of these are unquestionably inimical to health , the danger arising from inhalation of particles of lead , or from contact between the lead and the touch , or both . 
, and gauntlet gloves , and loose gowns . 
Everywhere , there was as much fresh air as windows , well placed and opened , could possibly admit . 
The door of another oven , or stove , about to be cooled and emptied , was opened from above , for the uncommercial countenance to peer down into . 
The uncommercial countenance withdrew itself , with expedition and a sense of suffocation , from the dull glowing heat and the overpowering smell . 
On the whole , perhaps the going into these stoves to work , when they are freshly opened , may be the worst part of the occupation . 
But I made it out to be indubitable that the owners of these lead mills honestly and sedulously try to reduce the dangers of the occupation to the lowest point . 
An experienced medical attendant is provided for them , and any premonitory symptoms of lead poisoning are carefully treated . 
Their teapots and such things were set out on tables ready for their afternoon meal , when I saw their room and it had a homely look . 
On the other hand , it should be remembered that most of them are very capricious and irregular in their attendance . 
American inventiveness would seem to indicate that before very long white lead may be made entirely by machinery . 
The sooner , the better . 
In the meantime , I parted from my two frank conductors over the mills , by telling them that they had nothing there to be concealed , and nothing to be blamed for . 
Retracing my footsteps over my beat , I went off duty . 
I had followed this pursuit through an exceptionally trying winter in an always trying climate , and had resumed it in England after but a brief repose . 
giddy , jarred , shaken , faint , uncertain of voice and sight and tread and touch , and dull of spirit . 
The medical advice I sought within a few hours , was given in two words 'instant rest . 
But some very singular experiences recorded themselves on this same fly leaf , and I am going to relate them literally . 
I repeat the word literally . 
nature but it was all one for that . 
Pressure , however , so far from being overthrown by the discovery , became a greater favourite than ever . 
There was a general moralising upon Pressure , in every street . 
The idle people improved the occasion in a similar manner . 
All sorts of people seemed to become vicariously religious at my expense . 
The documents in proof lie near my hand . 
My old acquaintances the begging letter writers came out on the fly leaf , very piously indeed . 
They were glad , at such a serious crisis , to afford me another opportunity of sending that Post office order . 
I needn't make it a pound , as previously insisted on ten shillings might ease my mind . 
The number of people who were prepared to live long years after me , untiring benefactors to their species , for fifty pounds apiece down , was astonishing . 
Also , of those who wanted bank notes for stiff penitential amounts , to give away not to keep , on any account . 
Divers wonderful medicines and machines insinuated recommendations of themselves into the fly leaf that was to have been so blank . 
I was a glass piece of general property , and everybody was on the most surprisingly intimate terms with me . 
A few public institutions had complimentary perceptions of corners in my mind , of which , after considerable self examination , I have not discovered any indication . 
Neat little printed forms were addressed to those corners , beginning with the words 'I give and bequeath . 
With this , and with a laugh at the rest that shall not be cynical , I turn the Fly leaf , and go on again . 
It was a fellow creature on horseback , dressed in the absurdest manner . 
I laid down the newspaper with which I had been occupied , and surveyed the fellow man in question with astonishment . 
At length this Gilpinian triumvirate effected a halt , and , looking northward , waved their three right hands as commanding unseen troops , to 'Up , guards ! and at 'em . 
Hereupon a brazen band burst forth , which caused them to be instantly bolted with to some remote spot of earth in the direction of the Surrey Hills . 
Judging from these appearances that a procession was under way , I threw up my window , and , craning out , had the satisfaction of beholding it advancing along the streets . 
It was a Teetotal procession , as I learnt from its banners , and was long enough to consume twenty minutes in passing . 
The display was , on the whole , pleasant to see , as any good humoured holiday assemblage of clean , cheerful , and well conducted people should be . 
It was bright with ribbons , tinsel , and shoulder belts , and abounded in flowers , as if those latter trophies had come up in profusion under much watering . 
The day being breezy , the insubordination of the large banners was very reprehensible . 
Suddenly , too , a banner would shiver in the wind , and go about in the most inconvenient manner . 
At intervals , a gloom would fall on the passing members of the procession , for which I was at first unable to account . 
The procession was composed of a series of smaller processions , which had come together , each from its own metropolitan district . 
An infusion of allegory became perceptible when patriotic Peckham advanced . 
So I judged , from the circumstance of Peckham's unfurling a silken banner that fanned heaven and earth with the words , 'The Peckham Lifeboat . 
I have observed that the aggregate procession was on the whole pleasant to see . 
I made use of that qualified expression with a direct meaning , which I will now explain . 
It involves the title of this paper , and a little fair trying of teetotalism by its own tests . 
There were many people on foot , and many people in vehicles of various kinds . 
But the procession completely converted me . 
Indeed , my case had the special strength that the half pint quadruped underwent as much suffering as the half gallon quadruped . 
Moral total abstinence from horseflesh through the whole length and breadth of the scale . 
This pledge will be in course of administration to all teetotal processionists , not pedestrians , at the publishing office of 'All the Year Round , on the st day of April , . 
Observe a point for consideration . 
Manifestly , in strict accordance with teetotal doctrines , THEY must come in too , and take the total abstinence from horseflesh pledge . 
