This text was part of The John Harvard Library under the general editorship of Howard Mumford Jones . 
There were no servants present , and the gentlemen , with chairs closely approaching , seemed to be discussing some subject with great earnestness . 
For convenience sake , we have said , hitherto , two gentlemen . 
One of the parties , however , when critically examined , did not seem , strictly speaking , to come under the species . 
, the most authoritative American grammarian of his day . 
As we before stated , the two were in the midst of an earnest conversation . 
That is the way I should arrange the matter , said Mr. Shelby . 
I can't make trade that way I positively can't , Mr. Shelby , said the other , holding up a glass of wine between his eye and the light . 
You mean honest , as niggers go , said Haley , helping himself to a glass of brandy . 
No I mean , really , Tom is a good , steady , sensible , pious fellow . 
He got religion at a camp meeting , four years ago and I believe he really did get it . 
Some folks don't believe there is pious niggers Shelby , said Haley , with a candid flourish of his hand , but I do . 
He fetched me a good sum , too , for I bought him cheap of a man that was 'bliged to sell out so I realized six hundred on him . 
Yes , I consider religion a valeyable thing in a nigger , when it's the genuine article , and no mistake . 
Well , Tom's got the real article , if ever a fellow had , rejoined the other . 
Why , last fall , I let him go to Cincinnati alone , to do business for me , and bring home five hundred dollars . 
Tom , says I to him , I trust you , because I think you're a Christian I know you wouldn't cheat . 
Tom comes back , sure enough I knew he would . 
I am sorry to part with Tom , I must say . 
You ought to let him cover the whole balance of the debt and you would , Haley , if you had any conscience . 
The trader sighed contemplatively , and poured out some more brandy . 
Well , then , Haley , how will you trade ? said Mr. Shelby , after an uneasy interval of silence . 
I don't like parting with any of my hands , that's a fact . 
Here the door opened , and a small quadroon boy , between four and five years of age , entered the room . 
There was something in his appearance remarkably beautiful and engaging . 
Come here , Jim Crow , said he . 
The child came up , and the master patted the curly head , and chucked him under the chin . 
Now , Jim , show this gentleman how you can dance and sing . 
Bravo ! said Haley , throwing him a quarter of an orange . 
Now , Jim , walk like old Uncle Cudjoe , when he has the rheumatism , said his master . 
Now , Jim , said his master , show us how old Elder Robbins leads the psalm . 
The boy drew his chubby face down to a formidable length , and commenced toning a psalm tune through his nose , with imperturbable gravity . 
Hurrah ! bravo ! what a young 'un ! said Haley that chap's a case , I'll promise . 
Tell you what , said he , suddenly clapping his hand on Mr. Shelby's shoulder , fling in that chap , and I'll settle the business I will . 
There needed only a glance from the child to her , to identify her as its mother . 
There was the same rich , full , dark eye , with its long lashes the same ripples of silky black hair . 
Well , Eliza ? said her master , as she stopped and looked hesitatingly at him . 
I was looking for Harry , please , sir and the boy bounded toward her , showing his spoils , which he had gathered in the skirt of his robe . 
Well , take him away then , said Mr. Shelby and hastily she withdrew , carrying the child on her arm . 
By Jupiter , said the trader , turning to him in admiration , there's an article , now ! You might make your fortune on that ar gal in Orleans , any day . 
I've seen over a thousand , in my day , paid down for gals not a bit handsomer . 
My wife would not part with her for her weight in gold . 
Ay , ay ! women always say such things , cause they ha'nt no sort of calculation . 
Just show 'em how many watches , feathers , and trinkets , one's weight in gold would buy , and that alters the case , I reckon . 
I tell you , Haley , this must not be spoken of I say no , and I mean no , said Shelby , decidedly . 
Well , you'll let me have the boy , though , said the trader you must own I've come down pretty handsomely for him . 
What on earth can you want with the child ? said Shelby . 
Why , I've got a friend that's going into this yer branch of the business wants to buy up handsome boys to raise for the market . 
Fancy articles entirely sell for waiters , and so on , to rich 'uns , that can pay for handsome 'uns . 
It sets off one of yer great places a real handsome boy to open door , wait , and tend . 
O , you do ? La ! yes something of that ar natur . 
It is mighty onpleasant getting on with women , sometimes , I al'ays hates these yer screechin , screamin' times . 
They are mighty onpleasant but , as I manages business , I generally avoids 'em , sir . 
Now , what if you get the girl off for a day , or a week , or so then the thing's done quietly , all over before she comes home . 
Your wife might get her some ear rings , or a new gown , or some such truck , to make up with her . 
Lor bless ye , yes ! These critters ain't like white folks , you know they gets over things , only manage right . 
Now , they say , said Haley , assuming a candid and confidential air , that this kind o' trade is hardening to the feelings but I never found it so . 
Fact is , I never could do things up the way some fellers manage the business . 
I knew a real handsome gal once , in Orleans , as was entirely ruined by this sort o' handling . 
The fellow that was trading for her didn't want her baby and she was one of your real high sort , when her blood was up . 
I tell you , she squeezed up her child in her arms , and talked , and went on real awful . 
Clear waste , sir , of a thousand dollars , just for want of management , there's where 't is . 
It's always best to do the humane thing , sir that's been my experience . 
And the trader leaned back in his chair , and folded his arm , with an air of virtuous decision , apparently considering himself a second Wilberforce . 
It don't look well , now , for a feller to be praisin' himself but I say it jest because it's the truth . 
And I lays it all to my management , sir and humanity , sir , I may say , is the great pillar of my management . 
Mr. Shelby did not know what to say , and so he said , Indeed ! Now , I've been laughed at for my notions , sir , and I've been talked to . 
There was something so piquant and original in these elucidations of humanity , that Mr. Shelby could not help laughing in company . 
Mr. Shelby's laugh encouraged the trader to proceed . 
It's strange , now , but I never could beat this into people's heads . 
I used to talk to Tom . 
Why , I don't see no harm in their cryin' , says I it's natur , says I , and if natur can't blow off one way , it will another . 
Why , yes , sir , I may say so . 
'Tan't , you know , as if it was white folks , that's brought , up in the way of 'spectin' to keep their children and wives , and all that . 
Niggers , you know , that's fetched up properly , ha'n't no kind of 'spectations of no kind so all these things comes easier . 
I'm afraid mine are not properly brought up , then , said Mr. Shelby . 
S'pose not you Kentucky folks spile your niggers . 
You mean well by 'em , but 'tan't no real kindness , arter all . 
Now , I venture to say , your niggers would be quite chop fallen in a place where some of your plantation niggers would be singing and whooping like all possessed . 
It's a happy thing to be satisfied , said Mr. Shelby , with a slight shrug , and some perceptible feelings of a disagreeable nature . 
Meantime , Haley , if you want the matter carried on in the quiet way you speak of , you'd best not let your business in this neighborhood be known . 
It will get out among my boys , and it will not be a particularly quiet business getting away any of my fellows , if they know it , I'll promise you . 
O ! certainly , by all means , mum ! of course . 
Well , call up this evening , between six and seven , and you shall have my answer , said Mr. Shelby , and the trader bowed himself out of the apartment . 
And Eliza's child , too ! I know that I shall have some fuss with wife about that and , for that matter , about Tom , too . 
So much for being in debt , heigho ! The fellow sees his advantage , and means to push it . 
Perhaps the mildest form of the system of slavery is to be seen in the State of Kentucky . 
Now , it had so happened that , in approaching the door , Eliza had caught enough of the conversation to know that a trader was making offers to her master for somebody . 
She would gladly have stopped at the door to listen , as she came out but her mistress just then calling , she was obliged to hasten away . 
O , missis ! she said , raising her eyes then , bursting into tears , she sat down in a chair , and began sobbing . 
Why , Eliza child , what ails you ? said her mistress . 
O ! missis , missis , said Eliza , there's been a trader talking with master in the parlor ! I heard him . 
Well , silly child , suppose there has . 
O , missis , do you suppose mas'r would sell my Harry ? And the poor creature threw herself into a chair , and sobbed convulsively . 
There now , put my back hair up in that pretty braid you learnt the other day , and don't go listening at doors any more . 
Well , but , missis , you never would give your consent to to Nonsense , child ! to be sure , I shouldn't . 
What do you talk so for ? I would as soon have one of my own children sold . 
But really , Eliza , you are getting altogether too proud of that little fellow . 
A man can't put his nose into the door , but you think he must be coming to buy him . 
Reassured by her mistress' confident tone , Eliza proceeded nimbly and adroitly with her toilet , laughing at her own fears , as she proceeded . 
Mrs. Shelby was a woman of high class , both intellectually and morally . 
In fact , she dismissed the matter from her mind , without a second thought and being occupied in preparations for an evening visit , it passed out of her thoughts entirely . 
CHAPTER II The Mother Eliza had been brought up by her mistress , from girlhood , as a petted and indulged favorite . 
These natural graces in the quadroon are often united with beauty of the most dazzling kind , and in almost every case with a personal appearance prepossessing and agreeable . 
Eliza , such as we have described her , is not a fancy sketch , but taken from remembrance , as we saw her , years ago , in Kentucky . 
Safe under the protecting care of her mistress , Eliza had reached maturity without those temptations which make beauty so fatal an inheritance to a slave . 
She had been married to a bright and talented young mulatto man , who was a slave on a neighboring estate , and bore the name of George Harris . 
This young man had been hired out by his master to work in a bagging factory , where his adroitness and ingenuity caused him to be considered the first hand in the place . 
He had invented a machine for the cleaning of the hemp , which , considering the education and circumstances of the inventor , displayed quite as much mechanical genius as Whitney's cotton gin . 
A machine of this description was really the invention of a young colored man in Kentucky . 
He was possessed of a handsome person and pleasing manners , and was a general favorite in the factory . 
This same gentleman , having heard of the fame of George's invention , took a ride over to the factory , to see what this intelligent chattel had been about . 
He was received with great enthusiasm by the employer , who congratulated him on possessing so valuable a slave . 
What business had his slave to be marching round the country , inventing machines , and holding up his head among gentlemen ? He'd soon put a stop to it . 
He'd take him back , and put him to hoeing and digging , and see if he'd step about so smart . 
Accordingly , the manufacturer and all hands concerned were astounded when he suddenly demanded George's wages , and announced his intention of taking him home . 
No object at all , sir . 
I don't need to hire any of my hands out , unless I've a mind to . 
But , sir , he seems peculiarly adapted to this business . 
Dare say he may be never was much adapted to anything that I set him about , I'll be bound . 
But only think of his inventing this machine , interposed one of the workmen , rather unluckily . 
O yes ! a machine for saving work , is it ? He'd invent that , I'll be bound let a nigger alone for that , any time . 
They are all labor saving machines themselves , every one of 'em . 
No , he shall tramp ! George had stood like one transfixed , at hearing his doom thus suddenly pronounced by a power that he knew was irresistible . 
He folded his arms , tightly pressed in his lips , but a whole volcano of bitter feelings burned in his bosom , and sent streams of fire through his veins . 
We'll try to help you , yet . 
George was taken home , and put to the meanest drudgery of the farm . 
It was during the happy period of his employment in the factory that George had seen and married his wife . 
During that period , being much trusted and favored by his employer , he had free liberty to come and go at discretion . 
You needn't trouble yourself to talk any longer , said he , doggedly I know my own business , sir . 
I did not presume to interfere with it , sir . 
I only thought that you might think it for your interest to let your man to us on the terms proposed . 
O , I understand the matter well enough . 
I saw your winking and whispering , the day I took him out of the factory but you don't come it over me that way . 
A very humane jurist once said , The worst use you can put a man to is to hang him . 
She turned , and a bright smile lighted up her fine eyes . 
Saying this , she drew him into a neat little apartment opening on the verandah , where she generally sat at her sewing , within call of her mistress . 
How glad I am ! why don't you smile ? and look at Harry how he grows . 
The boy stood shyly regarding his father through his curls , holding close to the skirts of his mother's dress . 
Isn't he beautiful ? said Eliza , lifting his long curls and kissing him . 
I wish he'd never been born ! said George , bitterly . 
I wish I'd never been born myself ! Surprised and frightened , Eliza sat down , leaned her head on her husband's shoulder , and burst into tears . 
So we have , dear , said George . 
Then drawing his child on his knee , he gazed intently on his glorious dark eyes , and passed his hands through his long curls . 
I'm a poor , miserable , forlorn drudge I shall only drag you down with me , that's all . 
Well , it is dreadful , said Eliza but , after all , he is your master , you know . 
My master ! and who made him my master ? That's what I think of what right has he to me ? I'm a man as much as he is . 
I'm a better man than he is . 
I asked him to stop , as pleasant as I could , he just kept right on . 
I begged him again , and then he turned on me , and began striking me . 
I held his hand , and then he screamed and kicked and ran to his father , and told him that I was fighting him . 
Who made this man my master ? That's what I want to know ! he said . 
Well , said Eliza , mournfully , I always thought that I must obey my master and mistress , or I couldn't be a Christian . 
No , I won't ! he said , clenching his hand with a fierce frown . 
Eliza trembled , and was silent . 
She had never seen her husband in this mood before and her gentle system of ethics seemed to bend like a reed in the surges of such passions . 
You know poor little Carlo , that you gave me , added George the creature has been about all the comfort that I've had . 
He has slept with me nights , and followed me around days , and kind o' looked at me as if he understood how I felt . 
O , George , you didn't do it ! Do it ? not I ! but he did . 
Mas'r and Tom pelted the poor drowning creature with stones . 
Poor thing ! he looked at me so mournful , as if he wondered why I didn't save him . 
I had to take a flogging because I wouldn't do it myself . 
Mas'r will find out that I'm one that whipping won't tame . 
My day will come yet , if he don't look out . 
What are you going to do ? O , George , don't do anything wicked if you only trust in God , and try to do right , he'll deliver you . 
I an't a Christian like you , Eliza my heart's full of bitterness I can't trust in God . 
Why does he let things be so ? O , George , we must have faith . 
Mistress says that when all things go wrong to us , we must believe that God is doing the very best . 
That's easy to say for people that are sitting on their sofas and riding in their carriages but let 'em be where I am , I guess it would come some harder . 
I wish I could be good but my heart burns , and can't be reconciled , anyhow . 
You couldn't in my place , you can't now , if I tell you all I've got to say . 
You don't know the whole yet . 
Why but you were married to me , by the minister , as much as if you'd been a white man ! said Eliza , simply . 
Don't you know a slave can't be married ? There is no law in this country for that I can't hold you for my wife , if he chooses to part us . 
She would have spoken to tell her husband her fears , but checked herself . 
No , no , he has enough to bear , poor fellow ! she thought . 
No , I won't tell him besides , it an't true Missis never deceives us . 
So , Eliza , my girl , said the husband , mournfully , bear up , now and good by , for I'm going . 
Going , George ! Going where ? To Canada , said he , straightening himself up and when I'm there , I'll buy you that's all the hope that's left us . 
You have a kind master , that won't refuse to sell you . 
Well , then , Eliza , hear my plan . 
Mas'r took it into his head to send me right by here , with a note to Mr. Symmes , that lives a mile past . 
I believe he expected I should come here to tell you what I have . 
It would please him , if he thought it would aggravate Shelby's folks , as he calls 'em . 
I'm going home quite resigned , you understand , as if all was over . 
Pray for me , Eliza perhaps the good Lord will hear you . 
O , pray yourself , George , and go trusting in him then you won't do anything wicked . 
Well , now , good by , said George , holding Eliza's hands , and gazing into her eyes , without moving . 
In front it had a neat garden patch , where , every summer , strawberries , raspberries , and a variety of fruits and vegetables , flourished under careful tending . 
Let us enter the dwelling . 
A cook she certainly was , in the very bone and centre of her soul . 
Just at present , however , Aunt Chloe is looking into the bake pan in which congenial operation we shall leave her till we finish our picture of the cottage . 
In one corner of it stood a bed , covered neatly with a snowy spread and by the side of it was a piece of carpeting , of some considerable size . 
In fact , that corner was the drawing room of the establishment . 
In the other corner was a bed of much humbler pretensions , and evidently designed for use . 
At this table was seated Uncle Tom , Mr. Shelby's best hand , who , as he is to be the hero of our story , we must daguerreotype for our readers . 
There was something about his whole air self respecting and dignified , yet united with a confiding and humble simplicity . 
Isn't that cake in the skillet almost done ? Mose done , Mas'r George , said Aunt Chloe , lifting the lid and peeping in , browning beautiful a real lovely brown . 
Ah ! let me alone for dat . 
Missis let Sally try to make some cake , t' other day , jes to larn her , she said . 
This being evidently the central point of the entertainment , Aunt Chloe began now to bustle about earnestly in the supper department . 
Here you , Mose and Pete ! get out de way , you niggers ! Get away , Mericky , honey , mammy'll give her baby some fin , by and by . 
They wanted me to come to supper in the house , said George but I knew what was what too well for that , Aunt Chloe . 
So you did so you did , honey , said Aunt Chloe , heaping the smoking batter cakes on his plate you know'd your old aunty'd keep the best for you . 
Here , I've got a thin old knife , I keeps sharp a purpose . 
Dar now , see ! comes apart light as a feather ! Now eat away you won't get anything to beat dat ar . 
Tom Lincon says , said George , speaking with his mouth full , that their Jinny is a better cook than you . 
Dem Lincons an't much count , no way ! said Aunt Chloe , contemptuously I mean , set along side our folks . 
They 's 'spectable folks enough in a kinder plain way but , as to gettin' up anything in style , they don't begin to have a notion on 't . 
Well , though , I've heard you say , said George , that Jinny was a pretty fair cook . 
So I did , said Aunt Chloe , I may say dat . 
Jinny and I is good friends , ye know . 
I never said nothin' but go 'long , Mas'r George ! Why , I shouldn't sleep a wink for a week , if I had a batch of pies like dem ar . 
Why , dey wan't no 'count 't all . 
I suppose Jinny thought they were ever so nice , said George . 
Thought so ! didn't she ? Thar she was , showing em , as innocent ye see , it's jest here , Jinny don't know . 
Lor , the family an't nothing ! She can't be spected to know ! 'Ta'nt no fault o' hem . 
Ah , Mas'r George , you doesn't know half 'your privileges in yer family and bringin' up ! Here Aunt Chloe sighed , and rolled up her eyes with emotion . 
I'm sure , Aunt Chloe , I understand I my pie and pudding privileges , said George . 
Ask Tom Lincon if I don't crow over him , every time I meet him . 
Ye oughter just ask him here to dinner , some o' these times , Mas'r George , she added it would look quite pretty of ye . 
Well , I mean to ask Tom here , some day next week , said George and you do your prettiest , Aunt Chloe , and we'll make him stare . 
Won't we make him eat so he won't get over it for a fortnight ? Yes , yes sartin , said Aunt Chloe , delighted you'll see . 
And what did mother say ? said George . 
Lor ! I was fit to split myself . 
And de Gineral , he knows what cookin' is , said Aunt Chloe , drawing herself up with an air . 
Ye see , there's pints in all pies , Mas'r George but tan't everybody knows what they is , or as orter be . 
But the Gineral , he knows I knew by his 'marks he made . 
, and , therefore , he was at leisure to notice the pile of woolly heads and glistening eyes which were regarding their operations hungrily from the opposite corner . 
La , now ! said Uncle Tom , they are so full of tickle all the while , they can't behave theirselves . 
Here the boys emerged from under the table , and , with hands and faces well plastered with molasses , began a vigorous kissing of the baby . 
Get along wid ye ! said the mother , pushing away their woolly heads . 
Ye'll all stick together , and never get clar , if ye do dat fashion . 
The baby employed the intervals in pulling Tom's nose , scratching his face , and burying her fat hands in his woolly hair , which last operation seemed to afford her special content . 
O mother , we don't wanter . 
We wants to sit up to meetin' , meetin's is so curis . 
La , Aunt Chloe , shove it under , and let 'em sit up , said Mas'r George , decisively , giving a push to the rude machine . 
Aunt Chloe , having thus saved appearances , seemed highly delighted to push the thing under , saying , as she did so , Well , mebbe 't will do 'em some good . 
The house now resolved itself into a committee of the whole , to consider the accommodations and arrangements for the meeting . 
What we's to do for cheers , now , I declar I don't know , said Aunt Chloe . 
Old Uncle Peter sung both de legs out of dat oldest cheer , last week , suggested Mose . 
You go long ! I'll boun' you pulled 'em out some o' your shines , said Aunt Chloe . 
Well , it'll stand , if it only keeps jam up agin de wall ! said Mose . 
Den Uncle Peter mus'n't sit in it , cause he al'ays hitches when he gets a singing . 
He hitched pretty nigh across de room , t' other night , said Pete . 
So the maternal admonition seemed rather to fail of effect . 
Well , ole man , said Aunt Chloe , you'll have to tote in them ar bar'ls . 
Mother's bar'ls is like dat ar widder's , Mas'r George was reading 'bout , in de good book , dey never fails , said Mose , aside to Peter . 
Mas'r George is such a beautiful reader , now , I know he'll stay to read for us , said Aunt Chloe 'pears like 't will be so much more interestin' . 
George very readily consented , for your boy is always ready for anything that makes him of importance . 
The room was soon filled with a motley assemblage , from the old gray headed patriarch of eighty , to the young girl and lad of fifteen . 
After a while the singing commenced , to the evident delight of all present . 
Not even all the disadvantage of nasal intonation could prevent the effect of the naturally fine voices , in airs at once wild and spirited . 
The words were sometimes the well known and common hymns sung in the churches about , and sometimes of a wilder , more indefinite character , picked up at camp meetings . 
Various exhortations , or relations of experience , followed , and intermingled with the singing . 
And the old creature sat down , with streaming tears , as wholly overcome , while the whole circle struck up O Canaan , bright Canaan I'm bound for the land of Canaan . 
But it was in prayer that he especially excelled . 
While this scene was passing in the cabin of the man , one quite otherwise passed in the halls of the master . 
The trader and Mr. Shelby were seated together in the dining room afore named , at a table covered with papers and writing utensils . 
Mr. Shelby was busy in counting some bundles of bills , which , as they were counted , he pushed over to the trader , who counted them likewise . 
All fair , said the trader and now for signing these yer . 
Mr. Shelby hastily drew the bills of sale towards him , and signed them , like a man that hurries over some disagreeable business , and then pushed them over with the money . 
Wal , now , the thing's done ! said the trader , getting up . 
Haley , said Mr. Shelby , I hope you'll remember that you promised , on your honor , you wouldn't sell Tom , without knowing what sort of hands he's going into . 
Why , you've just done it sir , said the trader . 
Circumstances , you well know , obliged me , said Shelby , haughtily . 
Wal , you know , they may 'blige me , too , said the trader . 
Howsomever , I'll do the very best I can in gettin' Tom a good berth as to my treatin' on him bad , you needn't be a grain afeard . 
If there's anything that I thank the Lord for , it is that I'm never noways cruel . 
CHAPTER V Showing the Feelings of Living Property on Changing Owners Mr. and Mrs. Shelby had retired to their apartment for the night . 
Is he a negro trader ? said Mrs. Shelby , noticing a certain embarrassment in her husband's manner . 
Why , my dear , what put that into your head ? said Shelby , looking up . 
It will have to come out , said he , mentally as well now as ever . 
Of course , I knew you never meant to sell any of our people , least of all , to such a fellow . 
Well , Emily , said her husband , so I have always felt and said but the fact is that my business lies so that I cannot get on without . 
I shall have to sell some of my hands . 
To that creature ? Impossible ! Mr. Shelby , you cannot be serious . 
I'm sorry to say that I am , said Mr. Shelby . 
I've agreed to sell Tom . 
Well , since you must know all , it is so . 
But why , of all others , choose these ? said Mrs. Shelby . 
Why sell them , of all on the place , if you must sell at all ? Because they will bring the highest sum of any , that's why . 
I could choose another , if you say so . 
The fellow made me a high bid on Eliza , if that would suit you any better , said Mr. Shelby . 
The wretch ! said Mrs. Shelby , vehemently . 
Well , I didn't listen to it , a moment , out of regard to your feelings , I wouldn't so give me some credit . 
My dear , said Mrs. Shelby , recollecting herself , forgive me . 
I was surprised , and entirely unprepared for this but surely you will allow me to intercede for these poor creatures . 
Tom is a noble hearted , faithful fellow , if he is black . 
I do believe , Mr. Shelby , that if he were put to it , he would lay down his life for you . 
I know it , I dare say but what's the use of all this ? I can't help myself . 
Why not make a pecuniary sacrifice ? I'm willing to bear my part of the inconvenience . 
O , Mr. Shelby , I have tried tried most faithfully , as a Christian woman should to do my duty to these poor , simple , dependent creatures . 
I didn't mean to tell you this Emily but , in plain words , there is no choice between selling these two and selling everything . 
Either they must go , or all must . 
Haley has come into possession of a mortgage , which , if I don't clear off with him directly , will take everything before it . 
Haley fancied the child he agreed to settle the matter that way , and no other . 
I was in his power , and had to do it . 
If you feel so to have them sold , would it be any better to have all sold ? Mrs. Shelby stood like one stricken . 
Finally , turning to her toilet , she rested her face in her hands , and gave a sort of groan . 
Well , therein you differ from many wise and pious men , said Mr. Shelby . 
You remember Mr. B. 's sermon , the other Sunday ? I don't want to hear such sermons I never wish to hear Mr. B. in our church again . 
Ministers can't help the evil , perhaps , can't cure it , any more than we can , but defend it ! it always went against my common sense . 
And I think you didn't think much of that sermon , either . 
Well , said Shelby , I must say these ministers sometimes carry matters further than we poor sinners would exactly dare to do . 
We men of the world must wink pretty hard at various things , and get used to a deal that isn't the exact thing . 
But we don't quite fancy , when women and ministers come out broad and square , and go beyond us in matters of either modesty or morals , that's a fact . 
But now , my dear , I trust you see the necessity of the thing , and you see that I have done the very best that circumstances would allow . 
If I could only at least save Eliza's child , I would sacrifice anything I have . 
I'm sorry , very sorry , Emily , said Mr. Shelby , I'm sorry this takes hold of you so but it will do no good . 
The fact is , Emily , the thing's done the bills of sale are already signed , and in Haley's hands and you must be thankful it is no worse . 
That man has had it in his power to ruin us all , and now he is fairly off . 
If you knew the man as I do , you'd think that we had had a narrow escape . 
He'd sell his own mother at a good per centage not wishing the old woman any harm , either . 
Haley wants to drive matters , and take possession tomorrow . 
I'm going to get out my horse bright and early , and be off . 
I can't see Tom , that's a fact and you had better arrange a drive somewhere , and carry Eliza off . 
Let the thing be done when she is out of sight . 
No , no , said Mrs. Shelby I'll be in no sense accomplice or help in this cruel business . 
I'll go and see poor old Tom , God help him , in his distress ! They shall see , at any rate , that their mistress can feel for and with them . 
As to Eliza , I dare not think about it . 
The Lord forgive us ! What have we done , that this cruel necessity should come on us ? There was one listener to this conversation whom Mr. and Mrs. Shelby little suspected . 
Communicating with their apartment was a large closet , opening by a door into the outer passage . 
When the voices died into silence , she rose and crept stealthily away . 
Pale , shivering , with rigid features and compressed lips , she looked an entirely altered being from the soft and timid creature she had been hitherto . 
It was a quiet , neat apartment , on the same floor with her mistress . 
Where are you going , mother ? said he , as she drew near the bed , with his little coat and cap . 
His mother drew near , and looked so earnestly into his eyes , that he at once divined that something unusual was the matter . 
Hush , Harry , she said mustn't speak loud , or they will hear us . 
Old Bruno , a great Newfoundland , who slept at the end of the porch , rose , with a low growl , as she came near . 
A few minutes brought them to the window of Uncle Tom's cottage , and Eliza stopping , tapped lightly on the window pane . 
Good Lord ! what's that ? said Aunt Chloe , starting up and hastily drawing the curtain . 
Tom had stood , during this speech , with his hands raised , and his eyes dilated , like a man in a dream . 
Slowly and gradually , as its meaning came over him , he collapsed , rather than seated himself , on his old chair , and sunk his head down upon his knees . 
The good Lord have pity on us ! said Aunt Chloe . 
O ! it don't seem as if it was true ! What has he done , that Mas'r should sell him ? He hasn't done anything , it isn't for that . 
Master don't want to sell , and Missis she's always good . 
Yes , I heard him say there was no choice between selling these two and selling all , the man was driving him so hard . 
Master said he was sorry but oh , Missis you ought to have heard her talk ! If she an't a Christian and an angel , there never was one . 
I'm a wicked girl to leave her so but , then , I can't help it . 
Come , bustle up , and I'll get your things together . 
Tom slowly raised his head , and looked sorrowfully but quietly around , and said , No , no I an't going . 
I s'pose I can b'ar it as well as any on 'em , he added , while something like a sob and a sigh shook his broad , rough chest convulsively . 
Mas'r always found me on the spot he always will . 
I never have broke trust , nor used my pass no ways contrary to my word , and I never will . 
It's better for me alone to go , than to break up the place and sell all . 
He leaned over the back of the chair , and covered his face with his large hands . 
For , sir , he was a man , and you are but another man . 
They have pushed him to the very last standing place , and he told me , today , that he was going to run away . 
Do try , if you can , to get word to him . 
Tell him how I went , and why I went and tell him I'm going to try and find Canada . 
Call Bruno in there , she added . 
I wonder what keeps Eliza , said Mrs. Shelby , after giving her bell repeated pulls , to no purpose . 
Mr. Shelby was standing before his dressing glass , sharpening his razor and just then the door opened , and a colored boy entered , with his shaving water . 
Andy , said his mistress , step to Eliza's door , and tell her I have rung for her three times . 
Poor thing ! she added , to herself , with a sigh . 
Andy soon returned , with eyes very wide in astonishment . 
He exclaimed , Then she suspected it , and she's off ! The Lord be thanked ! said Mrs. Shelby . 
Wife , you talk like a fool ! Really , it will be something pretty awkward for me , if she is . 
Haley saw that I hesitated about selling this child , and he'll think I connived at it , to get him out of the way . 
It touches my honor ! And Mr. Shelby left the room hastily . 
One person only , who might have shed some light on the matter , was entirely silent , and that was the head cook , Aunt Chloe . 
He'll be rael mad , I'll be bound , said Andy . 
Won't he swar ! said little black Jake . 
Yes , for he does swar , said woolly headed Mandy . 
I hearn him yesterday , at dinner . 
I hearn all about it then , 'cause I got into the closet where Missis keeps the great jugs , and I hearn every word . 
When , at last , Haley appeared , booted and spurred , he was saluted with the bad tidings on every hand . 
If I had the little devils ! muttered Haley , between his teeth . 
I say now , Shelby , this yer 's a most extro'rnary business ! said Haley , as he abruptly entered the parlor . 
It seems that gal 's off , with her young un . 
Mr. Haley , Mrs. Shelby is present , said Mr. Shelby . 
I beg pardon , ma'am , said Haley , bowing slightly , with a still lowering brow but still I say , as I said before , this yer's a sing'lar report . 
Is it true , sir ? Sir , said Mr. Shelby , if you wish to communicate with me , you must observe something of the decorum of a gentleman . 
Andy , take Mr. Haley's hat and riding whip . 
Take a seat , sir . 
I did expect fair dealing in this matter , I confess , said Haley . 
Moreover , I shall feel bound to give you every assistance , in the use of horses , servants , c . 
, in the recovery of your property . 
Old lady don't like your humble servant , over and above , said Haley , with an uneasy effort to be very familiar . 
I am not accustomed to hear my wife spoken of with such freedom , said Mr. Shelby , dryly . 
Beg pardon of course , only a joke , you know , said Haley , forcing a laugh . 
Some jokes are less agreeable than others , rejoined Shelby . 
It was the topic in every mouth , everywhere and nothing was done in the house or in the field , but to discuss its probable results . 
Eliza's flight an unprecedented event on the place was also a great accessory in stimulating the general excitement . 
Yes , it's an ill wind blows nowhar , he repeated . 
Now , dar , Tom's down wal , course der's room for some nigger to be up and why not dis nigger ? dat's de idee . 
Tom , a ridin' round de country boots blacked pass in his pocket all grand as Cuffee but who he ? Now , why shouldn't Sam ? dat's what I want to know . 
Halloo , Sam O Sam ! Mas'r wants you to cotch Bill and Jerry , said Andy , cutting short Sam's soliloquy . 
Good , now ! dat's de time o' day ! said Sam . 
It's Sam dat's called for in dese yer times . 
High ! said Sam , opening his eyes . 
How you know dat ? Heard her say so , my own self , dis blessed mornin' , when I bring in Mas'r's shaving water . 
But Lor ! she'll bring him to ! I knows well enough how that'll be , it's allers best to stand Missis' side the fence , now I tell yer . 
Der an't no saying' never 'bout no kind o' thing in dis yer world , he said , at last . 
Sam spoke like a philosopher , emphasizing this as if he had had a large experience in different sorts of worlds , and therefore had come to his conclusions advisedly . 
Now , sartin I'd a said that Missis would a scoured the varsal world after Lizy , added Sam , thoughtfully . 
Haley's horse , which was a skittish young colt , winced , and bounced , and pulled hard at his halter . 
Ho , ho ! said Sam , skeery , ar ye ? and his black visage lighted up with a curious , mischievous gleam . 
I'll fix ye now ! said he . 
There was a large beech tree overshadowing the place , and the small , sharp , triangular beech nuts lay scattered thickly on the ground . 
With one of these in his fingers , Sam approached the colt , stroked and patted , and seemed apparently busy in soothing his agitation . 
Dar ! he said , rolling his eyes with an approving grin me fix 'em ! At this moment Mrs. Shelby appeared on the balcony , beckoning to him . 
Sam approached with as good a determination to pay court as did ever suitor after a vacant place at St . 
Why have you been loitering so , Sam ? I sent Andy to tell you to hurry . 
O , Lord bless my soul ! I done forgot , Missis ! I won't say nothing of de sort no more . 
Why , Sam , you just have said it again . 
Did I ? O , Lord ! I mean I didn't go fur to say it . 
You must be careful , Sam . 
Just let me get my breath , Missis , and I'll start fair . 
Well , Sam , you are to go with Mr. Haley , to show him the road , and help him . 
Be careful of the horses , Sam you know Jerry was a little lame last week don't ride them too fast . 
Mrs. Shelby spoke the last words with a low voice , and strong emphasis . 
Let dis child alone for dat ! said Sam , rolling up his eyes with a volume of meaning . 
Lord knows ! High ! Didn't say dat ! said he , suddenly catching his breath , with a ludicrous flourish of apprehension , which made his mistress laugh , spite of herself . 
You know , Andy , critturs will do such things and therewith Sam poked Andy in the side , in a highly suggestive manner . 
High ! said Andy , with an air of instant appreciation . 
Yes , you see , Andy , Missis wants to make time , dat ar's clar to der most or'nary 'bserver . 
I jis make a little for her . 
At this instant , Haley appeared on the verandah . 
Somewhat mollified by certain cups of very good coffee , he came out smiling and talking , in tolerably restored humor . 
Sam and Andy , clawing for certain fragmentary palm leaves , which they were in the habit of considering as hats , flew to the horseposts , to be ready to help Mas'r . 
Not a bit of him , Mas'r ! said Sam , putting Haley's rein in his hand , and holding his stirrup , while Andy was untying the other two horses . 
And now ensued a miscellaneous scene of confusion . 
Haley ran up and down , and cursed and swore and stamped miscellaneously . 
He's cotched ! he exclaimed , triumphantly . 
If 't hadn't been for me , they might a bust themselves , all on 'em but I cotched him ! You ! growled Haley , in no amiable mood . 
If it hadn't been for you , this never would have happened . 
Now let's be off , and have no more fooling . 
Why , Mas'r , said Sam , in a deprecating tone , I believe you mean to kill us all clar , horses and all . 
Here we are all just ready to drop down , and the critters all in a reek of sweat . 
Why , Mas'r won't think of startin' on now till arter dinner . 
Mas'rs' hoss wants rubben down see how he splashed hisself and Jerry limps too don't think Missis would be willin' to have us start dis yer way , no how . 
Lord bless you , Mas'r , we can ketch up , if we do stop . 
Lizy never was no great of a walker . 
Mrs. Shelby , who , greatly to her amusement , had overheard this conversation from the verandah , now resolved to do her part . 
She came forward , and , courteously expressing her concern for Haley's accident , pressed him to stay to dinner , saying that the cook should bring it on the table immediately . 
O , Lor , if it warn't as good as a meetin' , now , to see him a dancin' and kickin' and swarin' at us . 
will yer have yer hoss now , or wait till you cotch him ? . 
Lor , Andy , I think I can see him now . 
And Sam and Andy leaned up against the barn and laughed to their hearts' content . 
Yer oughter seen how mad he looked , when I brought the hoss up . 
Lord , he'd a killed me , if he durs' to and there I was a standin' as innercent and as humble . 
I'm sure , I was racin' so , I didn't see nothing , said Andy . 
Well , yer see , said Sam , proceeding gravely to wash down Haley's pony , I 'se 'quired what yer may call a habit o' bobservation , Andy . 
It's a very 'portant habit , Andy and I 'commend yer to be cultivatin' it , now yer young . 
Hist up that hind foot , Andy . 
Yer see , Andy , it's bobservation makes all de difference in niggers . 
Didn't I see which way the wind blew dis yer mornin' ? Didn't I see what Missis wanted , though she never let on ? Dat ar's bobservation , Andy . 
I 'spects it's what you may call a faculty . 
Faculties is different in different peoples , but cultivation of 'em goes a great way . 
I guess if I hadn't helped your bobservation dis mornin' , yer wouldn't have seen your way so smart , said Andy . 
Andy , said Sam , you's a promisin' child , der an't no manner o' doubt . 
I thinks lots of yer , Andy and I don't feel no ways ashamed to take idees from you . 
We oughtenter overlook nobody , Andy , cause the smartest on us gets tripped up sometimes . 
And so , Andy , let's go up to the house now . 
I'll be boun' Missis'll give us an uncommon good bite , dis yer time . 
CHAPTER VII The Mother's Struggle It is impossible to conceive of a human creature more wholly desolate and forlorn than Eliza , when she turned her footsteps from Uncle Tom's cabin . 
The frosty ground creaked beneath her feet , and she trembled at the sound every quaking leaf and fluttering shadow sent the blood backward to her heart , and quickened her footsteps . 
She had often been , with her mistress , to visit some connections , in the little village of T , not far from the Ohio river , and knew the road well . 
To go thither , to escape across the Ohio river , were the first hurried outlines of her plan of escape beyond that , she could only hope in God . 
After a while , they came to a thick patch of woodland , through which murmured a clear brook . 
She was many miles past any neighborhood where she was personally known . 
An hour before sunset , she entered the village of T , by the Ohio river , weary and foot sore , but still strong in heart . 
Her first glance was at the river , which lay , like Jordan , between her and the Canaan of liberty on the other side . 
It was now early spring , and the river was swollen and turbulent great cakes of floating ice were swinging heavily to and fro in the turbid waters . 
What is it ? she said . 
Isn't there any ferry or boat , that takes people over to B , now ? she said . 
No , indeed ! said the woman the boats has stopped running . 
I never heard of it till last night , and I've walked quite a piece today , in hopes to get to the ferry . 
Well , now , that's onlucky , said the woman , whose motherly sympathies were much aroused I'm re'lly consarned for ye . 
Solomon ! she called , from the window , towards a small back building . 
A man , in leather apron and very dirty hands , appeared at the door . 
That's a sweet little fellow , added the woman , offering him a cake . 
But the child , wholly exhausted , cried with weariness . 
Poor fellow ! he isn't used to walking , and I've hurried him on so , said Eliza . 
Well , take him into this room , said the woman , opening into a small bed room , where stood a comfortable bed . 
Eliza laid the weary boy upon it , and held his hands in hers till he was fast asleep . 
For her there was no rest . 
As a fire in her bones , the thought of the pursuer urged her on and she gazed with longing eyes on the sullen , surging waters that lay between her and liberty . 
Here we must take our leave of her for the present , to follow the course of her pursuers . 
Sarves him right ! said Aunt Chloe , indignantly . 
He'll get wus nor oneasy , one of these days , if he don't mend his ways . 
His master'll be sending for him , and then see how he'll look ! He'll go to torment , and no mistake , said little Jake . 
Sich'll be burnt up forever , and no mistake won't ther ? said Andy . 
I'd be glad to see it , I'll be boun' , said little Jake . 
Chil'en ! said a voice , that made them all start . 
It was Uncle Tom , who had come in , and stood listening to the conversation at the door . 
Chil'en ! he said , I'm afeard you don't know what ye're sayin' . 
Forever is a dre'ful word , chil'en it's awful to think on 't . 
You oughtenter wish that ar to any human crittur . 
We wouldn't to anybody but the soul drivers , said Andy nobody can help wishing it to them , they 's so awful wicked . 
Don't natur herself kinder cry out on 'em ? said Aunt Chloe . 
Pray for them that 'spitefully use you , the good book says , says Tom . 
Pray for 'em ! said Aunt Chloe Lor , it's too tough ! I can't pray for 'em . 
I'm sure I'd rather be sold , ten thousand times over , than to have all that ar poor crittur's got to answer for . 
So 'd I , a heap , said Jake . 
Lor , shouldn't we cotch it , Andy ? Andy shrugged his shoulders , and gave an acquiescent whistle . 
I'm glad Mas'r didn't go off this morning , as he looked to , said Tom that ar hurt me more than sellin' , it did . 
The boys all means well , but they 's powerful car'less . 
The bell here rang , and Tom was summoned to the parlor . 
Go anywhere you like , boy . 
Thank you , Mas'r , said Tom . 
Thar , says she , Tom , that's to be your young Mas'r take good care on him , says she . 
My good boy , said he , the Lord knows you say but the truth and if I was able to help it , all the world shouldn't buy you . 
And sure as I am a Christian woman , said Mrs. Shelby , you shall be redeemed as soon as I can any bring together means . 
Sir , she said to Haley , take good account of who you sell him to , and let me know . 
Lor , yes , for that matter , said the trader , I may bring him up in a year , not much the wuss for wear , and trade him back . 
I'll trade with you then , and make it for your advantage , said Mrs. Shelby . 
Of course , said the trader , all 's equal with me li'ves trade 'em up as down , so I does a good business . 
All I want is a livin' , you know , ma'am that's all any on us wants , I , s'pose . 
Mr. and Mrs. Shelby both felt annoyed and degraded by the familiar impudence of the trader , and yet both saw the absolute necessity of putting a constraint on their feelings . 
She therefore graciously smiled , assented , chatted familiarly , and did all she could to make time pass imperceptibly . 
At two o'clock Sam and Andy brought the horses up to the posts , apparently greatly refreshed and invigorated by the scamper of the morning . 
Sam was there new oiled from dinner , with an abundance of zealous and ready officiousness . 
As Haley approached , he was boasting , in flourishing style , to Andy , of the evident and eminent success of the operation , now that he had farly come to it . 
Your master , I s'pose , don't keep no dogs , said Haley , thoughtfully , as he prepared to mount . 
Heaps on 'em , said Sam , triumphantly thar's Bruno he's a roarer ! and , besides that , 'bout every nigger of us keeps a pup of some natur or uther . 
Sam knew exactly what he meant , but he kept on a look of earnest and desperate simplicity . 
Our dogs all smells round considable sharp . 
I spect they's the kind , though they han't never had no practice . 
They 's far dogs , though , at most anything , if you'd get 'em started . 
Here , Bruno , he called , whistling to the lumbering Newfoundland , who came pitching tumultuously toward them . 
You go hang ! said Haley , getting up . 
Come , tumble up now . 
I 's 'stonished at yer , Andy , said Sam , with awful gravity . 
This yer's a seris bisness , Andy . 
Yer mustn't be a makin' game . 
This yer an't no way to help Mas'r . 
I shall take the straight road to the river , said Haley , decidedly , after they had come to the boundaries of the estate . 
I know the way of all of 'em , they makes tracks for the underground . 
Sartin , said Sam , dat's de idee . 
Mas'r Haley hits de thing right in de middle . 
Cause , said Sam , I'd rather be 'clined to 'magine that Lizy 'd take de dirt road , bein' it's the least travelled . 
Haley , notwithstanding that he was a very old bird , and naturally inclined to be suspicious of chaff , was rather brought up by this view of the case . 
If yer warn't both on yer such cussed liars , now ! he said , contemplatively as he pondered a moment . 
Course , said Sam , Mas'r can do as he'd ruther , go de straight road , if Mas'r thinks best , it's all one to us . 
Now , when I study 'pon it , I think de straight road de best , deridedly . 
She would naturally go a lonesome way , said Haley , thinking aloud , and not minding Sam's remark . 
Dar an't no sayin' , said Sam gals is pecular they never does nothin' ye thinks they will mose gen'lly the contrary . 
Gals is nat'lly made contrary and so , if you thinks they've gone one road , it is sartin you'd better go t' other , and then you'll be sure to find 'em . 
Now , my private 'pinion is , Lizy took der road so I think we'd better take de straight one . 
I nebber been over it no way . 
It's despit lonesome , and we might lose our way , whar we'd come to , de Lord only knows . 
Nevertheless , said Haley , I shall go that way . 
In short , he was strictly noncommittal . 
Haley , accustomed to strike the balance of probabilities between lies of greater or lesser magnitude , thought that it lay in favor of the dirt road aforesaid . 
When , therefore , Sam indicated the road , Haley plunged briskly into it , followed by Sam and Andy . 
It was open for about an hour's ride , and after that it was cut across by various farms and fences . 
Sam knew this fact perfectly well , indeed , the road had been so long closed up , that Andy had never heard of it . 
He therefore rode along with an air of dutiful submission , only groaning and vociferating occasionally that 't was desp't rough , and bad for Jerry's foot . 
After riding about an hour in this way , the whole party made a precipitate and tumultuous descent into a barn yard belonging to a large farming establishment . 
Wan't dat ar what I telled Mas'r ? said Sam , with an air of injured innocence . 
How does strange gentleman spect to know more about a country dan de natives born and raised ? You rascal ! said Haley , you knew all about this . 
Eliza was standing by the window , looking out in another direction , when Sam's quick eye caught a glimpse of her . 
Haley and Andy were two yards behind . 
A thousand lives seemed to be concentrated in that one moment to Eliza . 
Her room opened by a side door to the river . 
She caught her child , and sprang down the steps towards it . 
In that dizzy moment her feet to her scarce seemed to touch the ground , and a moment brought her to the water's edge . 
The huge green fragment of ice on which she alighted pitched and creaked as her weight came on it , but she staid there not a moment . 
Yer a brave gal , now , whoever ye ar ! said the man , with an oath . 
Eliza recognized the voice and face for a man who owned a farm not far from her old home . 
O , Mr. Symmes ! save me do save me do hide me ! said Elia . 
Why , what's this ? said the man . 
Why , if 'tan't Shelby's gal ! My child ! this boy ! he'd sold him ! There is his Mas'r , said she , pointing to the Kentucky shore . 
O , Mr. Symmes , you've got a little boy ! So I have , said the man , as he roughly , but kindly , drew her up the steep bank . 
Besides , you're a right brave gal . 
I like grit , wherever I see it . 
When they had gained the top of the bank , the man paused . 
I'd be glad to do something for ye , said he but then there's nowhar I could take ye . 
Go thar they're kind folks . 
Thar's no kind o' danger but they'll help you , they're up to all that sort o' thing . 
The Lord bless you ! said Eliza , earnestly . 
No 'casion , no 'casion in the world , said the man . 
What I've done's of no 'count . 
Come , now , go along like a likely , sensible gal , as you are . 
You've arnt your liberty , and you shall have it , for all me . 
The woman folded her child to her bosom , and walked firmly and swiftly away . 
The man stood and looked after her . 
Somehow I never could see no kind o' critter a strivin' and pantin' , and trying to clar theirselves , with the dogs arter 'em and go agin 'em . 
Besides , I don't see no kind of 'casion for me to be hunter and catcher for other folks , neither . 
Haley had stood a perfectly amazed spectator of the scene , till Eliza had disappeared up the bank , when he turned a blank , inquiring look on Sam and Andy . 
That ar was a tolable fair stroke of business , said Sam . 
The gal 's got seven devils in her , I believe ! said Haley . 
How like a wildcat she jumped ! Wal , now , said Sam , scratching his head , I hope Mas'r'll 'scuse us trying dat ar road . 
Don't think I feel spry enough for dat ar , no way ! and Sam gave a hoarse chuckle . 
You laugh ! said the trader , with a growl . 
Lord bless you , Mas'r , I couldn't help it now , said Sam , giving way to the long pent up delight of his soul . 
I'll make ye laugh t' other side yer mouths ! said the trader , laying about their heads with his riding whip . 
Both ducked , and ran shouting up the bank , and were on their horses before he was up . 
Good evening , Mas'r ! said Sam , with much gravity . 
I berry much spect Missis be anxious 'bout Jerry . 
Mas'r Haley won't want us no longer . 
CHAPTER VIII Eliza's Escape Eliza made her desperate retreat across the river just in the dusk of twilight . 
Haley therefore slowly and discontentedly returned to the little tavern , to ponder further what was to be done . 
He was startled by the loud and dissonant voice of a man who was apparently dismounting at the door . 
He hurried to the window . 
By the land ! if this yer an't the nearest , now , to what I've heard folks call Providence , said Haley . 
I do b'lieve that ar's Tom Loker . 
Standing by the bar , in the corner of the room , was a brawny , muscular man , full six feet in height , and broad in proportion . 
In the head and face every organ and lineament expressive of brutal and unhesitating violence was in a state of the highest possible development . 
He was accompanied by a travelling companion , in many respects an exact contrast to himself . 
The great man poured out a big tumbler half full of raw spirits , and gulped it down without a word . 
The devil ! was the civil reply . 
I say , Tom , this yer's the luckiest thing in the world . 
I'm in a devil of a hobble , and you must help me out . 
Ugh ? aw ! like enough ! grunted his complacent acquaintance . 
A body may be pretty sure of that , when you're glad to see 'em something to be made off of 'em . 
What's the blow now ? You've got a friend here ? said Haley , looking doubtfully at Marks partner , perhaps ? Yes , I have . 
Here , Marks ! here's that ar feller that I was in with in Natchez . 
Shall be pleased with his acquaintance , said Marks , thrusting out a long , thin hand , like a raven's claw . 
Mr. Haley , I believe ? The same , sir , said Haley . 
And now , gentlemen , seein' as we've met so happily , I think I'll stand up to a small matter of a treat in this here parlor . 
Haley began a pathetic recital of his peculiar troubles . 
Loker shut up his mouth , and listened to him with gruff and surly attention . 
The conclusion of it appeared to amuse him extremely , for he shook his shoulders and sides in silence , and perked up his thin lips with an air of great internal enjoyment . 
So , then , ye'r fairly sewed up , an't ye ? he said he ! he ! he ! It's neatly done , too . 
This yer young un business makes lots of trouble in the trade , said Haley , dolefully . 
And the more trouble a young un is , and the more good for nothing , as a gen'l thing , the tighter they sticks to 'em . 
Wal , Mr. Haley , said Marks , 'est pass the hot water . 
Yes , sir , you say 'est what I feel and all'us have . 
It re'lly was droll to think on 't . 
Lord , there ain't no end to women's notions . 
Wal , jest so with me , said Haley . 
Fact he was stone blind . 
I won't hear one word not the beginning of a word . 
I says to 'em , This yer young un's mine , and not yourn , and you've no kind o' business with it . 
I'm going to sell it , first chance mind , you don't cut up none o' yer shines about it , or I'll make ye wish ye'd never been born . 
I tell ye , they sees it an't no play , when I gets hold . 
That ar's what ye may call emphasis , said Marks , poking Haley in the side , and going into another small giggle . 
An't Tom peculiar ? he ! he ! I say , Tom , I s'pect you make 'em understand , for all niggers' heads is woolly . 
They don't never have no doubt o' your meaning , Tom . 
I don't care , now , who hears me say it , and I think a cussed sight on it , so I may as well come out with it . 
Tend to yer soul ! repeated Tom , contemptuously take a bright lookout to find a soul in you , save yourself any care on that score . 
If the devil sifts you through a hair sieve , he won't find one . 
I can stand most any talk o' yourn but your pious talk , that kills me right up . 
There's different ways , you know , of looking at all subjects . 
Now , Mr. Haley , what is it ? you want us to undertake to catch this yer gal ? The gal's no matter of mine , she's Shelby's it's only the boy . 
I was a fool for buying the monkey ! You're generally a fool ! said Tom , gruffly . 
This yer gal , Mr. Haley , how is she ? what is she ? Wal ! white and handsome well brought up . 
I'd a gin Shelby eight hundred or a thousand , and then made well on her . 
White and handsome well brought up ! said Marks , his sharp eyes , nose and mouth , all alive with enterprise . 
Look here , now , Loker , a beautiful opening . 
We'll do a business here on our own account we does the catchin' the boy , of course , goes to Mr. Haley , we takes the gal to Orleans to speculate on . 
Tom , he does the knockin' down and that ar and I come in all dressed up shining boots everything first chop , when the swearin' 's to be done . 
You oughter see , now , said Marks , in a glow of professional pride , how I can tone it off . 
Talents is different , you know . 
Sometimes I rather wish they was more particular 't would be a heap more relishin' if they was , more fun , yer know . 
Lord bless ye , Tom , ye needn't break all the glasses ! said Marks save your fist for time o' need . 
But , gentlemen , an't I to come in for a share of the profits ? said Haley . 
An't it enough we catch the boy for ye ? said Loker . 
What do ye want ? Wal , said Haley , if I gives you the job , it's worth something , say ten per cent . 
on the profits , expenses paid . 
If you or Shelby wants to chase us , look where the partridges was last year if you find them or us , you're quite welcome . 
Ye know that , said Tom I don't pretend none of your snivelling ways , but I won't lie in my 'counts with the devil himself . 
What I ses I'll do , I will do , you know that , Dan Haley . 
But it an't all I want , by a long jump , said Tom . 
Ye don't think I did business with you , down in Natchez , for nothing , Haley I've learned to hold an eel , when I catch him . 
You've got to fork over fifty dollars , flat down , or this child don't start a peg . 
Why , when you have a job in hand that may bring a clean profit of somewhere about a thousand or sixteen hundred , why , Tom , you're onreasonable , said Haley . 
Wal , we must all keep good natured , keep easy , yer know . 
Edwards Dick and Lucy man and wife , six hundred dollars wench Polly and two children six hundred for her or her head . 
I'm jest a runnin' over our business , to see if we can take up this yer handily . 
Loker , he said , after a pause , we must set Adams and Springer on the track of these yer they've been booked some time . 
They'll charge too much , said Tom . 
I'll manage that ar they 's young in the business , and must spect to work cheap , said Marks , as he continued to read . 
Ther's three on 'em easy cases , 'cause all you've got to do is to shoot 'em , or swear they is shot they couldn't , of course , charge much for that . 
Them other cases , he said , folding the paper , will bear puttin' off a spell . 
So now let's come to the particulars . 
Now , Mr. Haley , you saw this yer gal when she landed ? To be sure , plain as I see you . 
And a man helpin' on her up the bank ? said Loker . 
To be sure , I did . 
Most likely , said Marks , she's took in somewhere but where , 's a question . 
Tom , what do you say ? We must cross the river tonight , no mistake , said Tom . 
But there's no boat about , said Marks . 
The ice is running awfully , Tom an't it dangerous ? Don'no nothing 'bout that , only it's got to be done , said Tom , decidedly . 
Suppose you want to lie by a day or two , till the gal 's been carried on the underground line up to Sandusky or so , before you start . 
O , no I an't a grain afraid , said Marks , only Only what ? said Tom . 
Well , about the boat . 
Yer see there an't any boat . 
I heard the woman say there was one coming along this evening , and that a man was going to cross over in it . 
Neck or nothing , we must go with him , said Tom . 
I s'pose you've got good dogs , said Haley . 
First rate , said Marks . 
But what's the use ? you han't got nothin' o' hers to smell on . 
Yes , I have , said Haley , triumphantly . 
Here's her shawl she left on the bed in her hurry she left her bonnet , too . 
That ar's lucky , said Loker fork over . 
Though the dogs might damage the gal , if they come on her unawars , said Haley . 
That ar's a consideration , said Marks . 
Our dogs tore a feller half to pieces , once , down in Mobile , 'fore we could get 'em off . 
Well , ye see , for this sort that's to be sold for their looks , that ar won't answer , ye see , said Haley . 
I do see , said Marks . 
Besides , if she's got took in , 'tan't no go , neither . 
Dogs is no 'count in these yer up states where these critters gets carried of course , ye can't get on their track . 
They only does down in plantations , where niggers , when they runs , has to do their own running , and don't get no help . 
After exchanging a few words of further arrangement , Haley , with visible reluctance , handed over the fifty dollars to Tom , and the worthy trio separated for the night . 
If any of our refined and Christian readers object to the society into which this scene introduces them , let us beg them to begin and conquer their prejudices in time . 
The catching business , we beg to remind them , is rising to the dignity of a lawful and patriotic profession . 
While this scene was going on at the tavern , Sam and Andy , in a state of high felicitation , pursued their way home . 
Sam was in the highest possible feather , and expressed his exultation by all sorts of supernatural howls and ejaculations , by divers odd motions and contortions of his whole system . 
Anon , slapping his sides with his arms , he would burst forth in peals of laughter , that made the old woods ring as they passed . 
Mrs. Shelby flew to the railings . 
Is that you , Sam ? Where are they ? Mas'r Haley 's a restin' at the tavern he's drefful fatigued , Missis . 
And Eliza , Sam ? Wal , she's clar 'cross Jordan . 
As a body may say , in the land o' Canaan . 
Why , Sam , what do you mean ? said Mrs. Shelby , breathless , and almost faint , as the possible meaning of these words came over her . 
Wal , Missis , de Lord he persarves his own . 
Lizy's done gone over the river into 'Hio , as 'markably as if de Lord took her over in a charrit of fire and two hosses . 
Sam's vein of piety was always uncommonly fervent in his mistress' presence and he made great capital of scriptural figures and images . 
Come up here , Sam , said Mr. Shelby , who had followed on to the verandah , and tell your mistress what she wants . 
Come , come , Emily , said he , passing his arm round her , you are cold and all in a shiver you allow yourself to feel too much . 
What sin , Emily ? You see yourself that we have only done what we were obliged to . 
There's an awful feeling of guilt about it , though , said Mrs. Shelby . 
I can't reason it away . 
Now , Sam , tell us distinctly how the matter was , said Mr. Shelby . 
Where is Eliza , if you know ? Wal , Mas'r , I saw her , with my own eyes , a crossin' on the floatin' ice . 
She crossed most 'markably it wasn't no less nor a miracle and I saw a man help her up the 'Hio side , and then she was lost in the dusk . 
Sam , I think this rather apocryphal , this miracle . 
Crossing on floating ice isn't so easily done , said Mr. Shelby . 
Easy ! couldn't nobody a done it , without de Lord . 
Why , now , said Sam , 't was jist dis yer way . 
, and when I comes by the tavern winder , sure enough there she was , right in plain sight , and dey diggin' on behind . 
Wal , I loses off my hat , and sings out nuff to raise the dead . 
Mrs. Shelby sat perfectly silent , pale with excitement , while Sam told his story . 
God be praised , she isn't dead ! she said but where is the poor child now ? De Lord will pervide , said Sam , rolling up his eyes piously . 
As I've been a sayin' , dis yer 's a providence and no mistake , as Missis has allers been a instructin' on us . 
Thar's allers instruments ris up to do de Lord's will . 
Now , if 't hadn't been for me today , she'd a been took a dozen times . 
These yer 's all providences . 
They are a kind of providences that you'll have to be pretty sparing of , Master Sam . 
I allow no such practices with gentlemen on my place , said Mr. Shelby , with as much sternness as he could command , under the circumstances . 
Mas'r quite right , quite it was ugly on me , there's no disputin' that ar and of course Mas'r and Missis wouldn't encourage no such works . 
You and Andy must be hungry . 
Missis is a heap too good for us , said Sam , making his bow with alacrity , and departing . 
I'll speechify these yer niggers , said Sam to himself , now I've got a chance . 
In fact , Sam considered oratory as his vocation , and never let slip an opportunity of magnifying his office . 
The kitchen was full of all his compeers , who had hurried and crowded in , from the various cabins , to hear the termination of the day's exploits . 
Now was Sam's hour of glory . 
For him as tries to get one o' our people is as good as tryin' to get all yer see the principle 's de same , dat ar's clar . 
Andy looked rebuked , particularly by the hard word collusitate , which most of the youngerly members of the company seemed to consider as a settler in the case , while Sam proceeded . 
Dat ar was conscience , Andy when I thought of gwine arter Lizy , I railly spected Mas'r was sot dat way . 
Sam's audience hanging on his words with open mouth , he could not but proceed . 
, why he an't persistent , hand me dat ar bit o' corn cake , Andy . 
But let's look inter it . 
I hope the gen'lmen and der fair sex will scuse my usin' an or'nary sort o' 'parison . 
Here ! I'm a trying to get top o' der hay . 
Yes , indeed ! said Sam , rising , full of supper and glory , for a closing effort . 
Niggers ! all on yer , said Sam , waving his palm leaf with benignity , I give yer my blessin' go to bed now , and be good boys . 
And , with this pathetic benediction , the assembly dispersed . 
Yes , yes , I thought I'd just make a run down , spend the night , and have a little comfort at home . 
No , no , Mary , no doctoring ! a cup of your good hot tea , and some of our good home living , is what I want . 
It's a tiresome business , this legislating ! And the senator smiled , as if he rather liked the idea of considering himself a sacrifice to his country . 
Mr. Bird , therefore , opened his eyes in surprise , and said , Not very much of importance . 
No , nonsense ! I wouldn't give a fip for all your politics , generally , but I think this is something downright cruel and unchristian . 
I hope , my dear , no such law has been passed . 
Her husband and children were her entire world , and in these she ruled more by entreaty and persuasion than by command or argument . 
I'll tell you what , Master Bill used to say , I was scared that time . 
But in cases where your doing so would involve a great public evil Obeying God never brings on public evils . 
It's always safest , all round , to do as He bids us . 
Mrs. Bird , seeing the defenceless condition of the enemy's territory , had no more conscience than to push her advantage . 
, I'd risk their wanting to run away from me , or you either , John . 
I hate reasoning , John , especially reasoning on such subjects . 
There's a way you political folks have of coming round and round a plain right thing and you don't believe in it yourselves , when it comes to practice . 
I know you well enough , John . 
After a moment , his wife's voice was heard at the door , in a quick , earnest tone , John ! John ! I do wish you'd come here , a moment . 
He drew his breath short , and stood in silence . 
Sure , now , if she an't a sight to behold ! said old Dinah , compassionately 'pears like 't was the heat that made her faint . 
Never done much hard work , guess , by the looks of her hands . 
Poor creature ! said Mrs. Bird , compassionately , as the woman slowly unclosed her large , dark eyes , and looked vacantly at her . 
O , he's here ! he's here ! she exclaimed . 
You are safe don't be afraid . 
God bless you ! said the woman , covering her face and sobbing while the little boy , seeing her crying , tried to get into her lap . 
With many gentle and womanly offices , which none knew better how to render than Mrs. Bird , the poor woman was , in time , rendered more calm . 
I wonder who and what she is ! said Mr. Bird , at last , as he laid it down . 
When she wakes up and feels a little rested , we will see , said Mrs. Bird . 
I say , wife ! said Mr. Bird after musing in silence over his newspaper . 
Well , dear ! She couldn't wear one of your gowns , could she , by any letting down , or such matter ? She seems to be rather larger than you are . 
A quite perceptible smile glimmered on Mrs. Bird's face , as she answered , We'll see . 
At this instant , Dinah looked in to say that the woman was awake , and wanted to see Missis . 
Mr. and Mrs. Bird went into the kitchen , followed by the two eldest boys , the smaller fry having , by this time , been safely disposed of in bed . 
The woman was now sitting up on the settle , by the fire . 
She was looking steadily into the blaze , with a calm , heart broken expression , very different from her former agitated wildness . 
Did you want me ? said Mrs. Bird , in gentle tones . 
You needn't be afraid of anything we are friends here , poor woman ! Tell me where you came from , and what you want , said she . 
I came from Kentucky , said the woman . 
When ? said Mr. Bird , taking up the interogatory . 
How did you come ? I crossed on the ice . 
Crossed on the ice ! said every one present . 
Yes , said the woman , slowly , I did . 
The Lord helped me nobody knows how much the Lord can help 'em , till they try , said the woman , with a flashing eye . 
Were you a slave ? said Mr. Bird . 
Yes , sir I belonged to a man in Kentucky . 
Was he unkind to you ? No , sir he was a good master . 
And was your mistress unkind to you ? No , sir no ! my mistress was always good to me . 
Then you will feel for me . 
I have lost two , one after another , left 'em buried there when I came away and I had only this one left . 
I never slept a night without him he was all I had . 
I jumped right on to the ice and how I got across , I don't know , but , first I knew , a man was helping me up the bank . 
The woman did not sob nor weep . 
She had gone to a place where tears are dry but every one around her was , in some way characteristic of themselves , showing signs of hearty sympathy . 
Because he was a kind master I'll say that of him , any way and my mistress was kind but they couldn't help themselves . 
They were owing money and there was some way , I can't tell how , that a man had a hold on them , and they were obliged to give him his will . 
I knew 't was no use of my trying to live , if they did it for 't 'pears like this child is all I have . 
Have you no husband ? Yes , but he belongs to another man . 
And where do you mean to go , my poor woman ? said Mrs. Bird . 
To Canada , if I only knew where that was . 
Is it very far off , is Canada ? said she , looking up , with a simple , confiding air , to Mrs. Bird's face . 
Poor thing ! said Mrs. Bird , involuntarily . 
Is 't a very great way off , think ? said the woman , earnestly . 
Much further than you think , poor child ! said Mrs. Bird but we will try to think what can be done for you . 
Here , Dinah , make her up a bed in your own room , close by the kitchen , and I'll think what to do for her in the morning . 
Meanwhile , never fear , poor woman put your trust in God he will protect you . 
Mrs. Bird and her husband reentered the parlor . 
She sat down in her little rocking chair before the fire , swaying thoughtfully to and fro . 
A pretty kettle of fish it would be for me , too , to be caught with them both here , just now ! No they'll have to be got off tonight . 
It will have to be done , though , for aught I see , hang it all ! and he drew the other boot anxiously on , and looked out of the window . 
There she'd be safe enough but the plague of the thing is , nobody could drive a carriage there tonight , but me . 
Why not ? Cudjoe is an excellent driver . 
Ay , ay , but here it is . 
The creek has to be crossed twice and the second crossing is quite dangerous , unless one knows it as I do . 
I have crossed it a hundred times on horseback , and know exactly the turns to take . 
And so , you see , there's no help for it . 
I shall get into business bright and early in the morning . 
At the door , however , he stopped a moment , and then coming back , he said , with some hesitation . 
Mary , I don't know how you'd feel about it , but there's that drawer full of things of of poor little Henry's . 
So saying , he turned quickly on his heel , and shut the door after him . 
Mrs. Bird slowly opened the drawer . 
Among such was the delicate woman who sits there by the lamp , dropping slow tears , while she prepares the memorials of her own lost one for the outcast wanderer . 
Mary , said her husband , coming in , with his overcoat in his hand , you must wake her up now we must be off . 
Soon , arrayed in a cloak , bonnet , and shawl , that had belonged to her benefactress , she appeared at the door with her child in her arms . 
Mr. Bird hurried her into the carriage , and Mrs. Bird pressed on after her to the carriage steps . 
Eliza leaned out of the carriage , and put out her hand , a hand as soft and beautiful as was given in return . 
She fixed her large , dark eyes , full of earnest meaning , on Mrs. Bird's face , and seemed going to speak . 
The door was shut , and the carriage drove on . 
The magic of the real presence of distress , the imploring human eye , the frail , trembling human hand , the despairing appeal of helpless agony , these he had never tried . 
And you need not exult over him , good brother of the Southern States for we have some inklings that many of you , under similar circumstances , would not do much better . 
We have reason to know , in Kentucky , as in Mississippi , are noble and generous hearts , to whom never was tale of suffering told in vain . 
Carriage sticks fast , while Cudjoe on the outside is heard making a great muster among the horses . 
Please , sir , it's powerful bad spot , this' yer . 
I don't know how we's to get clar out . 
I'm a thinkin' we'll have to be a gettin' rails . 
But we forbear , out of sympathy to our readers' bones . 
We beg them to drop a silent tear , and pass on . 
It was full late in the night when the carriage emerged , dripping and bespattered , out of the creek , and stood at the door of a large farmhouse . 
It took no inconsiderable perseverance to arouse the inmates but at last the respectable proprietor appeared , and undid the door . 
He was a great , tall , bristling Orson of a fellow , full six feet and some inches in his stockings , and arrayed in a red flannel hunting shirt . 
He stood for a few minutes holding the candle aloft , and blinking on our travellers with a dismal and mystified expression that was truly ludicrous . 
Honest old John Van Trompe was once quite a considerable land owner and slave owner in the State of Kentucky . 
Are you the man that will shelter a poor woman and child from slave catchers ? said the senator , explicitly . 
I rather think I am , said honest John , with some considerable emphasis . 
I thought so , said the senator . 
Weary , jaded , and spiritless , Eliza dragged herself up to the door , with her child lying in a heavy sleep on her arm . 
He took down a candle , and lighting it , set it upon the table , and then addressed himself to Eliza . 
Now , I say , gal , you needn't be a bit afeard , let who will come here . 
So now you jist go to sleep now , as quiet as if yer mother was a rockin' ye , said he , as he shut the door . 
Why , this is an uncommon handsome un , he said to the senator . 
Ah , well handsome uns has the greatest cause to run , sometimes , if they has any kind o' feelin , such as decent women should . 
I know all about that . 
The senator , in a few words , briefly explained Eliza's history . 
Thank you , my good friend , said the senator , I must be along , to take the night stage for Columbus . 
John equipped himself , and , with a lantern in hand , was soon seen guiding the senator's carriage towards a road that ran down in a hollow , back of his dwelling . 
When they parted , the senator put into his hand a ten dollar bill . 
It's for her , he said , briefly . 
Ay , ay , said John , with equal conciseness . 
They shook hands , and parted . 
CHAPTER X The Property Is Carried Off The February morning looked gray and drizzling through the window of Uncle Tom's cabin . 
It looked on downcast faces , the images of mournful hearts . 
Tom sat by , with his Testament open on his knee , and his head leaning upon his hand but neither spoke . 
It was yet early , and the children lay all asleep together in their little rude trundle bed . 
It's the last time , he said . 
There'll be the same God there , Chloe , that there is here . 
Well , said Aunt Chloe , s'pose dere will but de Lord lets drefful things happen , sometimes . 
I don't seem to get no comfort dat way . 
I'm in the Lord's hands , said Tom nothin' can go no furder than he lets it and thar's one thing I can thank him for . 
It's me that's sold and going down , and not you nur the chil'en . 
Here you're safe what comes will come only on me and the Lord , he'll help me , I know he will . 
Let's think on our marcies ! he added , tremulously , as if he was quite sure he needed to think on them very hard indeed . 
Ye've arnt him all he gets for ye , twice over . 
He owed ye yer freedom , and ought ter gin 't to yer years ago . 
Mebbe he can't help himself now , but I feel it's wrong . 
Nothing can't beat that ar out o' me . 
Wan't he put in my arms a baby ? it's natur I should think a heap of him . 
And he couldn't be spected to think so much of poor Tom . 
Mas'rs is used to havin' all these yer things done for 'em , and nat'lly they don't think so much on 't . 
They can't be spected to , no way . 
Yer ought ter look up to the Lord above he's above all thar don't a sparrow fall without him . 
It don't seem to comfort me , but I spect it orter , said Aunt Chloe . 
But dar's no use talkin' I'll jes wet up de corn cake , and get ye one good breakfast , 'cause nobody knows when you'll get another . 
In order to appreciate the sufferings of the negroes sold south , it must be remembered that all the instinctive affections of that race are peculiarly strong . 
Their local attachments are very abiding . 
They are not naturally daring and enterprising , but home loving and affectionate . 
The threat that terrifies more than whipping or torture of any kind is the threat of being sent down river . 
A slightly inaccurate quotation from Hamlet , Act III , scene I , lines . 
The simple morning meal now smoked on the table , for Mrs. Shelby had excused Aunt Chloe's attendance at the great house that morning . 
Lor , Pete , said Mose , triumphantly , han't we got a buster of a breakfast ! at the same time catching at a fragment of the chicken . 
Aunt Chloe gave him a sudden box on the ear . 
Thar now ! crowing over the last breakfast yer poor daddy's gwine to have to home ! O , Chloe ! said Tom , gently . 
Wal , I can't help it , said Aunt Chloe , hiding her face in her apron I 's so tossed about it , it makes me act ugly . 
The boys stood quite still , looking first at their father and then at their mother , while the baby , climbing up her clothes , began an imperious , commanding cry . 
Thar ! said Aunt Chloe , wiping her eyes and taking up the baby now I's done , I hope , now do eat something . 
This yer's my nicest chicken . 
Thar , boys , ye shall have some , poor critturs ! Yer mammy's been cross to yer . 
Now , said Aunt Chloe , bustling about after breakfast , I must put up yer clothes . 
Jest like as not , he'll take 'em all away . 
Then here's yer old shirts , and these yer is new ones . 
I toed off these yer stockings last night , and put de ball in 'em to mend with . 
But Lor ! who'll ever mend for ye ? and Aunt Chloe , again overcome , laid her head on the box side , and sobbed . 
Aunt Chloe set a chair for her in a manner decidedly gruff and crusty . 
She did not seem to notice either the action or the manner . 
She looked pale and anxious . 
Lor , now , Missis , don't don't ! said Aunt Chloe , bursting out in her turn and for a few moments they all wept in company . 
And in those tears they all shed together , the high and the lowly , melted away all the heart burnings and anger of the oppressed . 
If I give you money , it will only be taken from you . 
Haley stood there in very ill humor , having ridden hard the night before , and being not at all pacified by his ill success in recapturing his prey . 
Come , said he , ye nigger , ye'r ready ? Servant , ma'am ! said he , taking off his hat , as he saw Mrs. Shelby . 
Aunt Chloe shut and corded the box , and , getting up , looked gruffly on the trader , her tears seeming suddenly turned to sparks of fire . 
Tom rose up meekly , to follow his new master , and raised up his heavy box on his shoulder . 
His wife took the baby in her arms to go with him to the wagon , and the children , still crying , trailed on behind . 
A crowd of all the old and young hands on the place stood gathered around it , to bid farewell to their old associate . 
I's done my tears ! she said , looking grimly at the trader , who was coming up . 
Tom got in , and Haley , drawing out from under the wagon seat a heavy pair of shackles , made them fast around each ankle . 
A smothered groan of indignation ran through the whole circle , and Mrs. Shelby spoke from the verandah , Mr. Haley , I assure you that precaution is entirely unnecessary . 
Don' know , ma'am I've lost one five hundred dollars from this yer place , and I can't afford to run no more risks . 
I'm sorry , said Tom , that Mas'r George happened to be away . 
Give my love to Mas'r George , he said , earnestly . 
Haley whipped up the horse , and , with a steady , mournful look , fixed to the last on the old place , Tom was whirled away . 
Mr. Shelby at this time was not at home . 
But his wife's expostulations awoke his half slumbering regrets and Tom's manly disinterestedness increased the unpleasantness of his feelings . 
These yer 's a little too small for his build , said Haley , showing the fetters , and pointing out to Tom . 
Lor ! now , if thar an't Shelby's Tom . 
He han't sold him , now ? said the smith . 
Yes , he has , said Haley . 
Now , ye don't ! well , reely , said the smith , who'd a thought it ! Why , ye needn't go to fetterin' him up this yer way . 
He's the faithfullest , best crittur Yes , yes , said Haley but your good fellers are just the critturs to want ter run off . 
No way but to fetter 'em got legs , they'll use 'em , no mistake . 
Wal , he's got a fa'r chance . 
I promised to do well by him . 
He leaves his wife and chil'en up here , s'pose ? Yes but he'll get another thar . 
Lord , thar's women enough everywhar , said Haley . 
Tom was sitting very mournfully on the outside of the shop while this conversation was going on . 
O ! Mas'r George ! this does me good ! said Tom . 
What a shame ! he exclaimed , lifting his hands . 
I'll knock that old fellow down I will ! No you won't , Mas'r George and you must not talk so loud . 
It won't help me any , to anger him . 
I tell you , I blew 'em up well , all of 'em , at home ! That ar wasn't right , I'm 'feard , Mas'r George . 
I tell ye , Tom , I want to blow him up ! it would do me good ! No , don't Mas'r George , for it won't do me any good . 
Aunt Chloe and I have been talking about it . 
I told her not to fear I'll see to it , and I'll tease father's life out , if he don't do it . 
O ! Mas'r George , ye mustn't talk so 'bout yer father ! Lor , Uncle Tom , I don't mean anything bad . 
And now , Mas'r George , said Tom , ye must be a good boy 'member how many hearts is sot on ye . 
Al'ays keep close to yer mother . 
Don't be gettin' into any of them foolish ways boys has of gettin' too big to mind their mothers . 
Tell ye what , Mas'r George , the Lord gives good many things twice over but he don't give ye a mother but once . 
Ye'll never see sich another woman , Mas'r George , if ye live to be a hundred years old . 
And be careful of yer speaking , Mas'r George . 
Young boys , when they comes to your age , is wilful , sometimes it is natur they should be . 
But real gentlemen , such as I hopes you'll be , never lets fall on words that isn't 'spectful to thar parents . 
Ye an't 'fended , Mas'r George ? No , indeed , Uncle Tom you always did give me good advice . 
'Member yer Creator in the days o' yer youth , Mas'r George . 
I'll be real good , Uncle Tom , I tell you , said George . 
I'm going to be a first rater and don't you be discouraged . 
I'll have you back to the place , yet . 
O , you'll have good times yet ! Haley now came to the door , with the handcuffs in his hands . 
I should think you'd be ashamed to spend all your life buying men and women , and chaining them , like cattle ! I should think you'd feel mean ! said George . 
Well , good by , Uncle Tom keep a stiff upper lip , said George . 
Good by , Mas'r George , said Tom , looking fondly and admiringly at him . 
Away he went , and Tom looked , till the clatter of his horse's heels died away , the last sound or sight of his home . 
But over his heart there seemed to be a warm spot , where those young hands had placed that precious dollar . 
Tom put up his hand , and held it close to his heart . 
Calculates to do the best for 'em I can . 
Now , ye see , you'd better jest settle down comfortable , and not be tryin' no tricks because nigger's tricks of all sorts I'm up to , and it's no use . 
If niggers is quiet , and don't try to get off , they has good times with me and if they don't , why , it's thar fault , and not mine . 
Tom assured Haley that he had no present intentions of running off . 
In fact , the exhortation seemed rather a superfluous one to a man with a great pair of iron fetters on his feet . 
And here , for the present , we take our leave of Tom , to pursue the fortunes of other characters in our story . 
In the barroom he found assembled quite a miscellaneous company , whom stress of weather had driven to harbor , and the place presented the usual scenery of such reunions . 
In truth , it appeared to be the characteristic mark of every individual . 
The various hats , in fact , were quite a Shakespearean study . 
Your Kentuckian of the present day is a good illustration of the doctrine of transmitted instincts and pecularities . 
Into such an assembly of the free and easy our traveller entered . 
He was a short , thick set man , carefully dressed , with a round , good natured countenance , and something rather fussy and particular in his appearance . 
I say , stranger , how are ye ? said the aforesaid gentleman , firing an honorary salute of tobacco juice in the direction of the new arrival . 
Well , I reckon , was the reply of the other , as he dodged , with some alarm , the threatening honor . 
Any news ? said the respondent , taking out a strip of tobacco and a large hunting knife from his pocket . 
Not that I know of , said the man . 
Chaw ? said the first speaker , handing the old gentleman a bit of his tobacco , with a decidedly brotherly air . 
No , thank ye it don't agree with me , said the little man , edging off . 
What's that ? said the old gentleman , observing some of the company formed in a group around a large handbill . 
Nigger advertised ! said one of the company , briefly . 
The old gentleman read this advertisement from end to end in a low voice , as if he were studying it . 
There's my mind upon that ! said he , briefly , and sat down again . 
Why , now , stranger , what's that for ? said mine host . 
I'd do it all the same to the writer of that ar paper , if he was here , said the long man , coolly resuming his old employment of cutting tobacco . 
Any man that owns a boy like that , and can't find any better way o' treating on him , deserves to lose him . 
Let 'em know they are free to run any time , and it jest breaks up their wanting to . 
Why , my boys have been to Cincinnati , with five hundred dollars' worth of colts , and brought me back the money , all straight , time and agin . 
It stands to reason they should . 
Treat 'em like dogs , and you'll have dogs' works and dogs' actions . 
Treat 'em like men , and you'll have men's works . 
And the honest drover , in his warmth , endorsed this moral sentiment by firing a perfect feu de joi at the fireplace . 
I think you're altogether right , friend , said Mr. Wilson and this boy described here is a fine fellow no mistake about that . 
He worked for me some half dozen years in my bagging factory , and he was my best hand , sir . 
He is an ingenious fellow , too he invented a machine for the cleaning of hemp a really valuable affair it's gone into use in several factories . 
His master holds the patent of it . 
I'll warrant ye , said the drover , holds it and makes money out of it , and then turns round and brands the boy in his right hand . 
If I had a fair chance , I'd mark him , I reckon so that he'd carry it one while . 
These yer knowin' boys is allers aggravatin' and sarcy , said a coarse looking fellow , from the other side of the room that's why they gets cut up and marked so . 
If they behaved themselves , they wouldn't . 
That is to say , the Lord made 'em men , and it's a hard squeeze gettin 'em down into beasts , said the drover , dryly . 
I've had one or two of these fellers , and I jest sold 'em down river . 
I knew I'd got to lose 'em , first or last , if I didn't . 
Better send orders up to the Lord , to make you a set , and leave out their souls entirely , said the drover . 
Here the conversation was interrupted by the approach of a small one horse buggy to the inn . 
It had a genteel appearance , and a well dressed , gentlemanly man sat on the seat , with a colored servant driving . 
The whole party examined the new comer with the interest with which a set of loafers in a rainy day usually examine every newcomer . 
He was very tall , with a dark , Spanish complexion , fine , expressive black eyes , and close curling hair , also of a glossy blackness . 
His well formed aquiline nose , straight thin lips , and the admirable contour of his finely formed limbs , impressed the whole company instantly with the idea of something uncommon . 
Turning , with an indifferent air , he sauntered up to the advertisement , and read it over . 
Well , I didn't look , of course , said the stranger with a careless yawn . 
Then walking up to the landlord , he desired him to furnish him with a private apartment , as he had some writing to do immediately . 
The manufacturer , Mr. Wilson , from the time of the entrance of the stranger , had regarded him with an air of disturbed and uneasy curiosity . 
He seemed to himself to have met and been acquainted with him somewhere , but he could not recollect . 
Mr. Wilson , I think , said he , in a tone of recognition , and extending his hand . 
I beg your pardon , I didn't recollect you before . 
I see you remember me , Mr. Butler , of Oaklands , Shelby County . 
Ye yes yes , sir , said Mr. Wilson , like one speaking in a dream . 
Just then a negro boy entered , and announced that Mas'r's room was ready . 
George ! said Mr. Wilson . 
Yes , George , said the young man . 
I couldn't have thought it ! I am pretty well disguised , I fancy , said the young man , with a smile . 
A little walnut bark has made my yellow skin a genteel brown , and I've dyed my hair black so you see I don't answer to the advertisement at all . 
O , George ! but this is a dangerous game you are playing . 
I could not have advised you to it . 
I can do it on my own responsibility , said George , with the same proud smile . 
We remark , en passant , that George was , by his father's side , of white descent . 
From one of the proudest families in Kentucky he had inherited a set of fine European features , and a high , indomitable spirit . 
From his mother he had received only a slight mulatto tinge , amply compensated by its accompanying rich , dark eye . 
at the same time , I'm sorry , George , yes , decidedly I think I must say that , George it's my duty to tell you so . 
Why are you sorry , sir ? said George , calmly . 
Why , to see you , as it were , setting yourself in opposition to the laws of your country . 
George , you've got a hard master in fact , he is well he conducts himself reprehensibly I can't pretend to defend him . 
But you know how the angel commanded Hagar to return to her mistress , and submit herself under the hand and the apostle sent back Onesimus to his master . 
The angel bade the pregnant Hagar return to her mistress Sarai , even though Sarai had dealt harshly with her . 
Onesimus went back to his master to become no longer a servant but a brother beloved . 
I appeal to God Almighty I'm willing to go with the case to Him , and ask Him if I do wrong to seek my freedom . 
These feelings are quite natural , George , said the good natured man , blowing his nose . 
Yes , they're natural , but it is my duty not to encourage 'em in you . 
Yes , my boy , I'm sorry for you , now it's a bad case very bad but the apostle says , Let everyone abide in the condition in which he is called . 
So , as he stood carefully stroking his umbrella , and folding and patting down all the creases in it , he proceeded on with his exhortations in a general way . 
You see , George , you know , now , I always have stood your friend and whatever I've said , I've said for your good . 
Now , here , it seems to me , you're running an awful risk . 
You can't hope to carry it out . 
If you're taken , it will be worse with you than ever they'll only abuse you , and half kill you , and sell you down the river . 
Mr. Wilson , I know all this , said George . 
I do run a risk , but he threw open his overcoat , and showed two pistols and a bowie knife . 
There ! he said , I'm ready for 'em ! Down south I never will go . 
George , this is bad . 
See here , now , Mr. Wilson , said George , coming up and sitting himself determinately down in front of him look at me , now . 
I saw my mother put up at sheriff's sale , with her seven children . 
They were sold before her eyes , one by one , all to different masters and I was the youngest . 
I saw him do it and the last that I heard was her moans and screams , when I was tied to his horse's neck , to be carried off to his place . 
Well , then ? My master traded with one of the men , and bought my oldest sister . 
She was a pious , good girl , a member of the Baptist church , and as handsome as my poor mother had been . 
She was well brought up , and had good manners . 
At first , I was glad she was bought , for I had one friend near me . 
I was soon sorry for it . 
No , sir , it was for my mother and my sisters , it was because I hadn't a friend to love me on earth . 
I never knew what peace or comfort was . 
I never had a kind word spoken to me till I came to work in your factory . 
Then , sir , I found my wife you've seen her , you know how beautiful she is . 
And all this your laws give him power to do , in spite of God or man . 
But I'm going to have one . 
But if any man tries to stop me , let him take care , for I am desperate . 
I'll fight for my liberty to the last breath I breathe . 
Blast 'em all ! he suddenly broke out . 
Haven't I always said so the infernal old cusses ! I hope I an't swearing , now . 
Where is your wife , George ? he added , as he nervously rose , and began walking the room . 
No , my kind , good sir ! said George , you've done a great deal for me , and this might get you into trouble . 
I have money enough , I hope , to take me as far as I need it . 
No but you must , George . 
Money is a great help everywhere can't have too much , if you get it honestly . 
And now , George , how long are you going to travel in this way ? not long or far , I hope . 
It's well carried on , but too bold . 
And this black fellow , who is he ? A true fellow , who went to Canada more than a year ago . 
Has he got her ? Not yet he has been hanging about the place , and found no chance yet . 
Meanwhile , he is going with me as far as Ohio , to put me among friends that helped him , and then he will come back after her . 
Dangerous , very dangerous ! said the old man . 
George drew himself up , and smiled disdainfully . 
The old gentleman eyed him from head to foot , with a sort of innocent wonder . 
George , something has brought you out wonderfully . 
You hold up your head , and speak and move like another man , said Mr. Wilson . 
Because I'm a freeman ! said George , proudly . 
Yes , sir I've said Mas'r for the last time to any man . 
I'm free ! Take care ! You are not sure , you may be taken . 
All men are free and equal in the grave , if it comes to that , Mr. Wilson , said George . 
Jim's master don't live in this county he isn't known in these parts . 
Besides , he is given up nobody is looking after him , and nobody will take me up from the advertisement , I think . 
But the mark in your hand ? George drew off his glove , and showed a newly healed scar in his hand . 
That is a parting proof of Mr. Harris' regard , he said , scornfully . 
A fortnight ago , he took it into his head to give it to me , because he said he believed I should try to get away one of these days . 
Looks interesting , doesn't it ? he said , drawing his glove on again . 
I declare , my very blood runs cold when I think of it , your condition and your risks ! said Mr. Wilson . 
Mine has run cold a good many years , Mr. Wilson at present , it's about up to the boiling point , said George . 
I leave early tomorrow morning , before daylight by tomorrow night I hope to sleep safe in Ohio . 
I shall travel by daylight , stop at the best hotels , go to the dinner tables with the lords of the land . 
The friendly little old man shook it heartily , and after a little shower of caution , he took his umbrella , and fumbled his way out of the room . 
George stood thoughtfully looking at the door , as the old man closed it . 
A thought seemed to flash across his mind . 
He hastily stepped to it , and opening it , said , Mr. Wilson , one word more . 
The old gentleman entered again , and George , as before , locked the door , and then stood for a few moments looking on the floor , irresolutely . 
Well , sir , what you said was true . 
I am running a dreadful risk . 
She gave it to me for a Christmas present , poor child ! Give it to her , and tell her I loved her to the last . 
Will you ? Will you ? he added , earnestly . 
Yes , certainly poor fellow ! said the old gentleman , taking the pin , with watery eyes , and a melancholy quiver in his voice . 
Tell her one thing , said George it's my last wish , if she can get to Canada , to go there . 
No matter how kind her mistress is , no matter how much she loves her home beg her not to go back , for slavery always ends in misery . 
Tell her to bring up our boy a free man , and then he won't suffer as I have . 
Tell her this , Mr. Wilson , will you ? Yes , George . 
I'll tell her but I trust you won't die take heart , you're a brave fellow . 
Trust in the Lord , George . 
I wish in my heart you were safe through , though , that's what I do . 
Is there a God to trust in ? said George , in such a tone of bitter despair as arrested the old gentleman's words . 
O , I've seen things all my life that have made me feel that there can't be a God . 
You Christians don't know how these things look to us . 
There's a God , George , believe it trust in Him , and I'm sure He'll help you . 
Everything will be set right , if not in this life , in another . 
The real piety and benevolence of the simple old man invested him with a temporary dignity and authority , as he spoke . 
Mr. Haley and Tom jogged onward in their wagon , each , for a time , absorbed in his own reflections . 
They stir up the soul from its depths , and rouse , as with trumpet call , courage , energy , and enthusiasm , where before was only the blackness of despair . 
Mr. Haley pulled out of his pocket sundry newspapers , and began looking over their advertisements , with absorbed interest . 
Sold for the benefit of the creditors and heirs of the estate of Jesse Blutchford , SAMUEL MORRIS , THOMAS FLINT , Executors . 
This yer I must look at , said he to Tom , for want of somebody else to talk to . 
Ye see , I'm going to get up a prime gang to take down with ye , Tom it'll make it sociable and pleasant like , good company will , ye know . 
We must drive right to Washington first and foremost , and then I'll clap you into jail , while I does the business . 
However , the day wore on , and the evening saw Haley and Tom comfortably accommodated in Washington , the one in a tavern , and the other in a jail . 
The men and women to be sold sat in a group apart , talking in a low tone to each other . 
The woman who had been advertised by the name of Hagar was a regular African in feature and figure . 
She might have been sixty , but was older than that by hard work and disease , was partially blind , and somewhat crippled with rheumatism . 
By her side stood her only remaining son , Albert , a bright looking little fellow of fourteen years . 
The boy was the only survivor of a large family , who had been successively sold away from her to a southern market . 
The mother held on to him with both her shaking hands , and eyed with intense trepidation every one who walked up to examine him . 
Dey needn't call me worn out yet , said she , lifting her shaking hands . 
Walking up last to the boy , he felt of his arms , straightened his hands , and looked at his fingers , and made him jump , to show his agility . 
On plantation ? said Haley , with a contemptuous glance . 
What think of 'em ? said a man who had been following Haley's examination , as if to make up his own mind from it . 
Wal , said Haley , spitting , I shall put in , I think , for the youngerly ones and the boy . 
They want to sell the boy and the old woman together , said the man . 
Find it a tight pull why , she's an old rack o' bones , not worth her salt . 
You wouldn't then ? said the man . 
Anybody 'd be a fool 't would . 
She's half blind , crooked with rheumatis , and foolish to boot . 
Some buys up these yer old critturs , and ses there's a sight more wear in 'em than a body 'd think , said the man , reflectively . 
No go , 't all , said Haley wouldn't take her for a present , fact , I've seen , now . 
Wal , 't is kinder pity , now , not to buy her with her son , her heart seems so sot on him , s'pose they fling her in cheap . 
Them that's got money to spend that ar way , it's all well enough . 
I shall bid off on that ar boy for a plantation hand wouldn't be bothered with her , no way , notif they'd give her to me , said Haley . 
She'll take on desp't , said the man . 
Nat'lly , she will , said the trader , coolly . 
The conversation was here interrupted by a busy hum in the audience and the auctioneer , a short , bustling , important fellow , elbowed his way into the crowd . 
The old woman drew in her breath , and caught instinctively at her son . 
Keep close to yer mammy , Albert , close , dey'll put us up togedder , she said . 
O , mammy , I'm feard they won't , said the boy . 
Dey must , child I can't live , no ways , if they don't said the old creature , vehemently . 
The stentorian tones of the auctioneer , calling out to clear the way , now announced that the sale was about to commence . 
A place was cleared , and the bidding began . 
The different men on the list were soon knocked off at prices which showed a pretty brisk demand in the market two of them fell to Haley . 
Come , now , young un , said the auctioneer , giving the boy a touch with his hammer , be up and show your springs , now . 
Put us two up togedder , togedder , do please , Mas'r , said the old woman , holding fast to her boy . 
Be off , said the man , gruffly , pushing her hands away you come last . 
Now , darkey , spring and , with the word , he pushed the boy toward the block , while a deep , heavy groan rose behind him . 
The boy paused , and looked back but there was no time to stay , and , dashing the tears from his large , bright eyes , he was up in a moment . 
His fine figure , alert limbs , and bright face , raised an instant competition , and half a dozen bids simultaneously met the ear of the auctioneer . 
Anxious , half frightened , he looked from side to side , as he heard the clatter of contending bids , now here , now there , till the hammer fell . 
The bidding for the poor old creature was summary . 
The man who had addressed Haley , and who seemed not destitute of compassion , bought her for a trifle , and the spectators began to disperse . 
The poor victims of the sale , who had been brought up in one place together for years , gathered round the despairing old mother , whose agony was pitiful to see . 
Couldn't dey leave me one ? Mas'r allers said I should have one , he did , she repeated over and over , in heart broken tones . 
Trust in the Lord , Aunt Hagar , said the oldest of the men , sorrowfully . 
What good will it do ? said she , sobbing passionately . 
Mother , mother , don't ! don't ! said the boy . 
They say you 's got a good master . 
I don't care , I don't care . 
O , Albert ! oh , my boy ! you 's my last baby . 
Lord , how ken I ? Come , take her off , can't some of ye ? said Haley , dryly don't do no good for her to go on that ar way . 
A few days saw Haley , with his possessions , safely deposited on one of the Ohio boats . 
Boys , said Haley , coming up , briskly , I hope you keep up good heart , and are cheerful . 
Now , no sulks , ye see keep stiff upper lip , boys do well by me , and I'll do well by you . 
In a tavern a piece down here , said John I wish , now , I could see her once more in this world , he added . 
Poor John ! It was rather natural and the tears that fell , as he spoke , came as naturally as if he had been a white man . 
Tom drew a long breath from a sore heart , and tried , in his poor way , to comfort him . 
O , mamma , said a boy , who had just come up from below , there's a negro trader on board , and he's brought four or five slaves down there . 
Poor creatures ! said the mother , in a tone between grief and indignation . 
What's that ? said another lady . 
Some poor slaves below , said the mother . 
And they've got chains on , said the boy . 
What a shame to our country that such sights are to be seen ! said another lady . 
I've been south , and I must say I think the negroes are better off than they would be to be free . 
In some respects , some of them are well off , I grant , said the lady to whose remark she had answered . 
The most dreadful part of slavery , to my mind , is its outrages on the feelings and affections , the separating of families , for example . 
O , it does , said the first lady , eagerly I've lived many years in Kentucky and Virginia both , and I've seen enough to make any one's heart sick . 
Indeed , ma'am , you can know nothing of them , if you say so , answered the first lady , warmly . 
I was born and brought up among them . 
I know they do feel , just as keenly , even more so , perhaps , as we do . 
Cursed be Canaan a servant of servants shall he be , the scripture says . 
This is what Noah says when he wakes out of drunkenness and realizes that his youngest son , Ham , father of Canaan , has seen him naked . 
I say , stranger , is that ar what that text means ? said a tall man , standing by . 
It pleased Providence , for some inscrutable reason , to doom the race to bondage , ages ago and we must not set up our opinion against that . 
Yes , continued the tall man , we must all be resigned to the decrees of Providence . 
Niggers must be sold , and trucked round , and kept under it's what they's made for . 
'Pears like this yer view 's quite refreshing , an't it , stranger ? said he to Haley . 
I never thought on 't , said Haley , I couldn't have said as much , myself I ha'nt no larning . 
I took up the trade just to make a living if 'tan't right , I calculated to 'pent on 't in time , ye know . 
And now you'll save yerself the trouble , won't ye ? said the tall man . 
See what 't is , now , to know scripture . 
If ye'd only studied yer Bible , like this yer good man , ye might have know'd it before , and saved ye a heap o' trouble . 
Ye could jist have said , Cussed be' what's his name ? and 't would all have come right . 
I suppose , he added , that is scripture , as much as Cursed be Canaan . 
Wal , it seems quite as plain a text , stranger , said John the drover , to poor fellows like us , now and John smoked on like a volcano . 
Both them ar chaps parsons ? said John to one of the men , as they were going out . 
The young man who had spoken for the cause of humanity and God before stood with folded arms , looking on this scene . 
He turned , and Haley was standing at his side . 
Depend upon it , God will bring you into judgment for this . 
The trader turned away in silence . 
Haley walked reflectively to the other end of the boat . 
If I make pretty handsomely on one or two next gangs , he thought , I reckon I'll stop off this yer it's really getting dangerous . 
And he took out his pocket book , and began adding over his accounts , a process which many gentlemen besides Mr. Haley have found a specific for an uneasy conscience . 
The boat swept proudly away from the shore , and all went on merrily , as before . 
Men talked , and loafed , and read , and smoked . 
Women sewed , and children played , and the boat passed on her way . 
One day , when she lay to for a while at a small town in Kentucky , Haley went up into the place on a little matter of business . 
Tom , whose fetters did not prevent his taking a moderate circuit , had drawn near the side of the boat , and stood listlessly gazing over the railing . 
After a time , he saw the trader returning , with an alert step , in company with a colored woman , bearing in her arms a young child . 
She was dressed quite respectably , and a colored man followed her , bringing along a small trunk . 
The woman came cheerfully onward , talking , as she came , with the man who bore her trunk , and so passed up the plank into the boat . 
The bell rung , the steamer whizzed , the engine groaned and coughed , and away swept the boat down the river . 
The woman walked forward among the boxes and bales of the lower deck , and , sitting down , busied herself with chirruping to her baby . 
Haley made a turn or two about the boat , and then , coming up , seated himself near her , and began saying something to her in an indifferent undertone . 
Tom soon noticed a heavy cloud passing over the woman's brow and that she answered rapidly , and with great vehemence . 
I don't believe it , I won't believe it ! he heard her say . 
You're jist a foolin with me . 
You can ask any of these men here , that can read writing . 
Why , it's a bill of sale , signed by John Fosdick , said the man , making over to you the girl Lucy and her child . 
It's all straight enough , for aught I see . 
The woman's passionate exclamations collected a crowd around her , and the trader briefly explained to them the cause of the agitation . 
Going to take it easy , after all ! said the trader . 
Gal's got grit , I see . 
Her baby raised himself up against her , and stroked her cheeks with his little hands and , springing up and down , crowing and chatting , seemed determined to arouse her . 
The child , a boy of ten months , was uncommonly large and strong of his age , and very vigorous in his limbs . 
Never , for a moment , still , he kept his mother constantly busy in holding him , and guarding his springing activity . 
That's a fine chap ! said a man , suddenly stopping opposite to him , with his hands in his pockets . 
How old is he ? Ten months and a half , said the mother . 
Rum fellow ! said the man Knows what's what ! and he whistled , and walked on . 
When he had got to the other side of the boat , he came across Haley , who was smoking on top of a pile of boxes . 
The stranger produced a match , and lighted a cigar , saying , as he did so , Decentish kind o' wench you've got round there , stranger . 
Why , I reckon she is tol'able fair , said Haley , blowing the smoke out of his mouth . 
Taking her down south ? said the man . 
Haley nodded , and smoked on . 
Plantation hand ? said the man . 
Wal , said Haley , I'm fillin' out an order for a plantation , and I think I shall put her in . 
They telled me she was a good cook and they can use her for that , or set her at the cotton picking . 
She's got the right fingers for that I looked at 'em . 
Sell well , either way and Haley resumed his cigar . 
They won't want the young 'un on the plantation , said the man . 
I shall sell him , first chance I find , said Haley , lighting another cigar . 
S'pose you'd be selling him tol'able cheap , said the stranger , mounting the pile of boxes , and sitting down comfortably . 
Nonsense ! said Haley they is raised as easy as any kind of critter there is going they an't a bit more trouble than pups . 
This yer chap will be running all around , in a month . 
I've got a good place for raisin' , and I thought of takin' in a little more stock , said the man . 
Haley and the stranger smoked a while in silence , neither seeming willing to broach the test question of the interview . 
That won't do , no ways , he said , and began his smoking again . 
O , stranger ! that's rediculous , altogether , said the man . 
Fact ! said Haley , with a decisive nod of his head . 
I'll give thirty for him , said the stranger , but not a cent more . 
Now , I'll tell ye what I will do , said Haley , spitting again , with renewed decision . 
I'll split the difference , and say forty five and that's the most I will do . 
Well , agreed ! said the man , after an interval . 
Where do you land ? At Louisville , said the man . 
Very fair , we get there about dusk . 
And so , after a transfer of certain bills had passed from the man's pocket book to the trader's , he resumed his cigar . 
It was a bright , tranquil evening when the boat stopped at the wharf at Louisville . 
The woman had been sitting with her baby in her arms , now wrapped in a heavy sleep . 
Now's your time , said Haley , taking the sleeping child up , and handing him to the stranger . 
Don't wake him up , and set him to crying , now it would make a devil of a fuss with the gal . 
The man took the bundle carefully , and was soon lost in the crowd that went up the wharf . 
The trader was sitting there , the child was gone ! Why , why , where ? she began , in bewildered surprise . 
Lucy , said the trader , your child's gone you may as well know it first as last . 
You see , I know'd you couldn't take him down south and I got a chance to sell him to a first rate family , that'll raise him better than you can . 
His heart was exactly where yours , sir , and mine could be brought , with proper effort and cultivation . 
The wild look of anguish and utter despair that the woman cast on him might have disturbed one less practised but he was used to it . 
He had seen that same look hundreds of times . 
But the woman did not scream . 
The shot had passed too straight and direct through the heart , for cry or tear . 
Her slack hands fell lifeless by her side . 
Her eyes looked straight forward , but she saw nothing . 
The trader , who , considering his advantages , was almost as humane as some of our politicians , seemed to feel called on to administer such consolation as the case admitted of . 
I know this yer comes kinder hard , at first , Lucy , said he but such a smart , sensible gal as you are , won't give way to it . 
You see it's necessary , and can't be helped ! O ! don't , Mas'r , don't ! said the woman , with a voice like one that is smothering . 
He got up , and the woman turned away , and buried her head in her cloak . 
The trader walked up and down for a time , and occasionally stopped and looked at her . 
To him , it looked like something unutterably horrible and cruel , because , poor , ignorant black soul ! he had not learned to generalize , and to take enlarged views . 
Presbyterian clergyman , a friend of the Beecher family . 
Mrs. Stowe attempted unsuccessfully to have this identifying note removed from the stereotype plate of the first edition . 
Tom drew near , and tried to say something but she only groaned . 
Night came on , night calm , unmoved , and glorious , shining down with her innumerable and solemn angel eyes , twinkling , beautiful , but silent . 
There was no speech nor language , no pitying voice or helping hand , from that distant sky . 
One after another , the voices of business or pleasure died away all on the boat were sleeping , and the ripples at the prow were plainly heard . 
At midnight , Tom waked , with a sudden start . 
Something black passed quickly by him to the side of the boat , and he heard a splash in the water . 
No one else saw or heard anything . 
He raised his head , the woman's place was vacant ! He got up , and sought about him in vain . 
The poor bleeding heart was still , at last , and the river rippled and dimpled just as brightly as if it had not closed above it . 
Patience ! patience ! ye whose hearts swell indignant at wrongs like these . 
Not one throb of anguish , not one tear of the oppressed , is forgotten by the Man of Sorrows , the Lord of Glory . 
In his patient , generous bosom he bears the anguish of a world . 
Bear thou , like him , in patience , and labor in love for sure as he is God , the year of his redeemed shall come . 
The trader waked up bright and early , and came out to see to his live stock . 
It was now his turn to look about in perplexity . 
Where alive is that gal ? he said to Tom . 
Tom , who had learned the wisdom of keeping counsel , did not feel called upon to state his observations and suspicions , but said he did not know . 
She surely couldn't have got off in the night at any of the landings , for I was awake , and on the lookout , whenever the boat stopped . 
I never trust these yer things to other folks . 
This speech was addressed to Tom quite confidentially , as if it was something that would be specially interesting to him . 
The trader searched the boat from stem to stern , among boxes , bales and barrels , around the machinery , by the chimneys , in vain . 
Now , I say , Tom , be fair about this yer , he said , when , after a fruitless search , he came where Tom was standing . 
You know something about it , now . 
Don't tell me , I know you do . 
Now , you know something , you can't help it . 
That's all I know on 't . 
The trader was not shocked nor amazed because , as we said before , he was used to a great many things that you are not used to . 
Even the awful presence of Death struck no solemn chill upon him . 
Who does not know how our great men are outdoing themselves , in declaiming against the foreign slave trade . 
There are a perfect host of Clarksons and Wilberforces risen up among us on that subject , most edifying to hear and behold . 
, English philanthropists and anti slavery agitators who helped to secure passage of the Emancipation Bill by Parliament in . 
CHAPTER XIII The Quaker Settlement A quiet scene now rises before us . 
By her side sat a woman with a bright tin pan in her lap , into which she was carefully sorting some dried peaches . 
She might be fifty five or sixty but hers was one of those faces that time seems to touch only to brighten and adorn . 
Her face was round and rosy , with a healthful downy softness , suggestive of a ripe peach . 
Yes , ma'am , said Eliza , firmly . 
And what'll thee do , when thee gets there ? Thee must think about that , my daughter . 
My daughter came naturally from the lips of Rachel Halliday for hers was just the face and form that made mother seem the most natural word in the world . 
Eliza's hands trembled , and some tears fell on her fine work but she answered , firmly , I shall do anything I can find . 
I hope I can find something . 
Thee knows thee can stay here , as long as thee pleases , said Rachel . 
O , thank you , said Eliza , but she pointed to Harry I can't sleep nights I can't rest . 
Last night I dreamed I saw that man coming into the yard , she said , shuddering . 
Poor child ! said Rachel , wiping her eyes but thee mustn't feel so . 
The Lord hath ordered it so that never hath a fugitive been stolen from our village . 
I trust thine will not be the first . 
The door here opened , and a little short , round , pin cushiony woman stood at the door , with a cheery , blooming face , like a ripe apple . 
She was dressed , like Rachel , in sober gray , with the muslin folded neatly across her round , plump little chest . 
Ruth Stedman , said Rachel , coming joyfully forward how is thee , Ruth ? she said , heartily taking both her hands . 
Ruth , this friend is Eliza Harris and this is the little boy I told thee of . 
Where's thy baby , Ruth ? said Rachel . 
O , he's coming but thy Mary caught him as I came in , and ran off with him to the barn , to show him to the children . 
At this moment , the door opened , and Mary , an honest , rosy looking girl , with large brown eyes , like her mother's , came in with the baby . 
Mary , thee'd better fill the kettle , hadn't thee ? gently suggested the mother . 
The peaches , moreover , in obedience to a few gentle whispers from Rachel , were soon deposited , by the same hand , in a stew pan over the fire . 
And how is Abigail Peters ? said Rachel , as she went on with her biscuits . 
O , she's better , said Ruth I was in , this morning made the bed , tidied up the house . 
Leah Hills went in , this afternoon , and baked bread and pies enough to last some days and I engaged to go back to get her up , this evening . 
I will go in tomorrow , and do any cleaning there may be , and look over the mending , said Rachel . 
Ah ! that is well , said Ruth . 
I've heard , she added , that Hannah Stanwood is sick . 
John was up there , last night , I must go there tomorrow . 
John can come in here to his meals , if thee needs to stay all day , suggested Rachel . 
Thank thee , Rachel will see , tomorrow but , here comes Simeon . 
Simeon Halliday , a tall , straight , muscular man , in drab coat and pantaloons , and broad brimmed hat , now entered . 
Any news , father ? said Rachel , as she was putting her biscuits into the oven . 
Indeed ! said Rachel , looking thoughtfully , and glancing at Eliza . 
Did thee say thy name was Harris ? said Simeon to Eliza , as he reentered . 
Rachel glanced quickly at her husband , as Eliza tremulously answered yes her fears , ever uppermost , suggesting that possibly there might be advertisements out for her . 
Mother ! said Simeon , standing in the porch , and calling Rachel out . 
What does thee want , father ? said Rachel , rubbing her floury hands , as she went into the porch . 
This child's husband is in the settlement , and will be here tonight , said Simeon . 
Now , thee doesn't say that , father ? said Rachel , all her face radiant with joy . 
He is a bright , likely fellow , too . 
Shall we tell her now ? said Simeon . 
Let's tell Ruth , said Rachel . 
Here , Ruth , come here . 
Ruth laid down her knitting work , and was in the back porch in a moment . 
Ruth , what does thee think ? said Rachel . 
Father says Eliza's husband is in the last company , and will be here tonight . 
A burst of joy from the little Quakeress interrupted the speech . 
Hush thee , dear ! said Rachel , gently hush , Ruth ! Tell us , shall we tell her now ? Now ! to be sure , this very minute . 
Why , now , suppose 't was my John , how should I feel ? Do tell her , right off . 
Thee uses thyself only to learn how to love thy neighbor , Ruth , said Simeon , looking , with a beaming face , on Ruth . 
Isn't it what we are made for ? If I didn't love John and the baby , I should not know how to feel for her . 
Come , now do tell her , do ! and she laid her hands persuasively on Rachel's arm . 
Take her into thy bed room , there , and let me fry the chicken while thee does it . 
The blood flushed in Eliza's pale face she rose , trembling with nervous anxiety , and looked towards her boy . 
No , no , said little Ruth , darting up , and seizing her hands . 
Thee'll see thy father , little one . 
Does thee know it ? Thy father is coming , she said , over and over again , as the boy looked wonderingly at her . 
Meanwhile , within the door , another scene was going on . 
Rachel Halliday drew Eliza toward her , and said , The Lord hath had mercy on thee , daughter thy husband hath escaped from the house of bondage . 
The blood flushed to Eliza's cheek in a sudden glow , and went back to her heart with as sudden a rush . 
She sat down , pale and faint . 
Have courage , child , said Rachel , laying her hand on her head . 
He is among friends , who will bring him here tonight . 
Tonight ! Eliza repeated , tonight ! The words lost all meaning to her her head was dreamy and confused all was mist for a moment . 
When she awoke , she found herself snugly tucked up on the bed , with a blanket over her , and little Ruth rubbing her hands with camphor . 
She heard her husband's footsteps she felt him coming nearer his arms were around her , his tears falling on her face , and she awoke ! It was no dream . 
The daylight had long faded her child lay calmly sleeping by her side a candle was burning dimly on the stand , and her husband was sobbing by her pillow . 
The next morning was a cheerful one at the Quaker house . 
Bards have written of the cestus of Venus , that turned the heads of all the world in successive generations . 
We had rather , for our part , have the cestus of Rachel Halliday , that kept heads from being turned , and made everything go on harmoniously . 
We think it is more suited to our modern days , decidedly . 
While all other preparations were going on , Simeon the elder stood in his shirt sleeves before a little looking glass in the corner , engaged in the anti patriarchal operation of shaving . 
Rachel never looked so truly and benignly happy as at the head of her table . 
Father , what if thee should get found out again ? said Simeon second , as he buttered his cake . 
I should pay my fine , said Simeon , quietly . 
But what if they put thee in prison ? Couldn't thee and mother manage the farm ? said Simeon , smiling . 
Mother can do almost everything , said the boy . 
But isn't it a shame to make such laws ? Thee mustn't speak evil of thy rulers , Simeon , said his father , gravely . 
The Lord only gives us our worldly goods that we may do justice and mercy if our rulers require a price of us for it , we must deliver it up . 
Well , I hate those old slaveholders ! said the boy , who felt as unchristian as became any modern reformer . 
I am surprised at thee , son , said Simeon thy mother never taught thee so . 
I would do even the same for the slaveholder as for the slave , if the Lord brought him to my door in affliction . 
I hope , my good sir , that you are not exposed to any difficulty on our account , said George , anxiously . 
Fear nothing , George , for therefore are we sent into the world . 
If we would not meet trouble for a good cause , we were not worthy of our name . 
But , for me , said George , I could not bear it . 
Fear not , then , friend George it is not for thee , but for God and man , we do it , said Simeon . 
The pursuers are hard after thee we must not delay . 
If that is the case , why wait till evening ? said George . 
Thou art safe here by daylight , for every one in the settlement is a Friend , and all are watching . 
It has been found safer to travel by night . 
by Francois Auguste Rene , Vicomte de Chateaubriand . 
But as in an hour , this river of dreams and wild romance has emerged to a reality scarcely less visionary and splendid . 
We must look some time among its crowded decks before we shall find again our humble friend Tom . 
High on the upper deck , in a little nook among the everywhere predominant cotton bales , at last we may find him . 
For a hundred or more miles above New Orleans , the river is higher than the surrounding country , and rolls its tremendous volume between massive levees twenty feet in height . 
The traveller from the deck of the steamer , as from some floating castle top , overlooks the whole country for miles and miles around . 
Tom , therefore , had spread out full before him , in plantation after plantation , a map of the life to which he was approaching . 
Let us follow him a moment , as , pointing to each word , and pronouncing each half aloud , he reads , Let not your heart be troubled . 
In my Father's house are many mansions . 
I go to prepare a place for you . 
But , to poor Tom , there it lay , just what he needed , so evidently true and divine that the possibility of a question never entered his simple head . 
Among the passengers on the boat was a young gentleman of fortune and family , resident in New Orleans , who bore the name of St . 
Her form was the perfection of childish beauty , without its usual chubbiness and squareness of outline . 
There was about it an undulating and aerial grace , such as one might dream of for some mythic and allegorical being . 
Nevertheless , the little one was not what you would have called either a grave child or a sad one . 
On the contrary , an airy and innocent playfulness seemed to flicker like the shadow of summer leaves over her childish face , and around her buoyant figure . 
Anon the steersman at the wheel paused and smiled , as the picture like head gleamed through the window of the round house , and in a moment was gone again . 
Tom , who had the soft , impressible nature of his kindly race , ever yearning toward the simple and childlike , watched the little creature with daily increasing interest . 
Often and often she walked mournfully round the place where Haley's gang of men and women sat in their chains . 
Several times she appeared suddenly among them , with her hands full of candy , nuts , and oranges , which she would distribute joyfully to them , and then be gone again . 
Tom watched the little lady a great deal , before he ventured on any overtures towards acquaintanceship . 
He knew an abundance of simple acts to propitiate and invite the approaches of the little people , and he resolved to play his part right skilfully . 
The little one was shy , for all her busy interest in everything going on , and it was not easy to tame her . 
But at last they got on quite confidential terms . 
What's little missy's name ? said Tom , at last , when he thought matters were ripe to push such an inquiry . 
Clare , said the little one , though papa and everybody else call me Eva . 
Now , what's your name ? My name's Tom the little chil'en used to call me Uncle Tom , way back thar in Kentuck . 
Then I mean to call you Uncle Tom , because , you see , I like you , said Eva . 
So , Uncle Tom , where are you going ? I don't know , Miss Eva . 
Don't know ? said Eva . 
No , I am going to be sold to somebody . 
My papa can buy you , said Eva , quickly and if he buys you , you will have good times . 
I mean to ask him , this very day . 
Thank you , my little lady , said Tom . 
The boat here stopped at a small landing to take in wood , and Eva , hearing her father's voice , bounded nimbly away . 
Tom rose up , and went forward to offer his service in wooding , and soon was busy among the hands . 
Tom was standing just under her on the lower deck , as she fell . 
He saw her strike the water , and sink , and was after her in a moment . 
It was a sultry , close day , the next day , as the steamer drew near to New Orleans . 
A general bustle of expectation and preparation was spread through the boat in the cabin , one and another were gathering their things together , and arranging them , preparatory to going ashore . 
The steward and chambermaid , and all , were busily engaged in cleaning , furbishing , and arranging the splendid boat , preparatory to a grand entree . 
There stood the fair Evangeline , a little paler than the day before , but otherwise exhibiting no traces of the accident which had befallen her . 
A graceful , elegantly formed young man stood by her , carelessly leaning one elbow on a bale of cotton . 
while a large pocket book lay open before him . 
It was quite evident , at a glance , that the gentleman was Eva's father . 
There was the same noble cast of head , the same large blue eyes , the same golden brown hair yet the expression was wholly different . 
All the moral and Christian virtues bound in black Morocco , complete ! he said , when Haley had finished . 
Well , the young lady here seems to be sot on him , and nat'lly enough . 
O ! certainly , there's a call on your benevolence , my friend . 
Look at his head them high forrads allays shows calculatin niggers , that'll do any kind o' thing . 
I've , marked that ar . 
Why , that ar fellow managed his master's whole farm . 
He has a strornary talent for business . 
Bad , bad , very bad knows altogether too much ! said the young man , with the same mocking smile playing about his mouth . 
Never will do , in the world . 
Your smart fellows are always running off , stealing horses , and raising the devil generally . 
I think you'll have to take off a couple of hundred for his smartness . 
Why , he's been called a preacher in them parts he came from . 
And I might use him for a family chaplain , possibly , added the young man , dryly . 
Religion is a remarkably scarce article at our house . 
How do you know I am ? Didn't you just warrant him for a preacher ? Has he been examined by any synod or council ? Come , hand over your papers . 
Papa , do buy him ! it's no matter what you pay , whispered Eva , softly , getting up on a package , and putting her arm around her father's neck . 
You have money enough , I know . 
What for , pussy ? Are you going to use him for a rattle box , or a rocking horse , or what ? I want to make him happy . 
An original reason , certainly . 
Here the trader handed up a certificate , signed by Mr. Shelby , which the young man took with the tips of his long fingers , and glanced over carelessly . 
A gentlemanly hand , he said , and well spelt , too . 
I don't know , either , about religion's being up in the market , just now . 
I have not looked in the papers lately , to see how it sells . 
I know there's differences in religion . 
How d'ye say ? Wal , raily , I can't do that , said the trader . 
I'm a thinkin that every man'll have to hang on his own hook , in them ar quarters . 
There , count your money , old boy ! he added , as he handed the roll to the trader . 
I wonder , now , if I was divided up and inventoried , said the latter as he ran over the paper , how much I might bring . 
What's your name ? Tom ? Quite as likely to do it for your asking as mine , from all accounts . 
Can you drive horses , Tom ? I've been allays used to horses , said Tom . 
Mas'r Shelby raised heaps of 'em . 
Well , I think I shall put you in coachy , on condition that you won't be drunk more than once a week , unless in cases of emergency , Tom . 
Tom looked surprised , and rather hurt , and said , I never drink , Mas'r . 
I've heard that story before , Tom but then we'll see . 
It will be a special accommodation to all concerned , if you don't . 
Never mind , my boy , he added , good humoredly , seeing Tom still looked grave I don't doubt you mean to do well . 
I sartin do , Mas'r , said Tom . 
And you shall have good times , said Eva . 
Papa is very good to everybody , only he always will laugh at them . 
Papa is much obliged to you for his recommendation , said St . 
Clare , laughing , as he turned on his heel and walked away . 
Clare was the son of a wealthy planter of Louisiana . 
The family had its origin in Canada . 
Of two brothers , very similar in temperament and character , one had settled on a flourishing farm in Vermont , and the other became an opulent planter in Louisiana . 
The mother of Augustine was a Huguenot French lady , whose family had emigrated to Louisiana during the days of its early settlement . 
Augustine and another brother were the only children of their parents . 
In childhood , he was remarkable for an extreme and marked sensitiveness of character , more akin to the softness of woman than the ordinary hardness of his own sex . 
Time , however , overgrew this softness with the rough bark of manhood , and but few knew how living and fresh it still lay at the core . 
Soon after the completion of his college course , his whole nature was kindled into one intense and passionate effervescence of romantic passion . 
To drop the figure , he saw and won the love of a high minded and beautiful woman , in one of the northern states , and they were affianced . 
Stung to madness , he vainly hoped , as many another has done , to fling the whole thing from his heart by one desperate effort . 
It was handed to him while he was in full tide of gay and successful conversation , in a whole room full of company . 
In his room , alone , he opened and read the letter , now worse than idle and useless to be read . 
The letter ended with expressions of hope and thankfulness , and professions of undying affection , which were more bitter than death to the unhappy young man . 
He wrote to her immediately I have received yours , but too late . 
I believed all I heard . 
I am married , and all is over . 
Only forget , it is all that remains for either of us . 
And thus ended the whole romance and ideal of life for Augustine St . 
Of course , in a novel , people's hearts break , and they die , and that is the end of it and in a story this is very convenient . 
But in real life we do not die when all that makes life bright dies to us . 
Had his wife been a whole woman , she might yet have done something as woman can to mend the broken threads of life , and weave again into a tissue of brightness . 
Clare could not even see that they had been broken . 
It is a great mistake to suppose that a woman with no heart will be an easy creditor in the exchange of affection . 
When , therefore , St . 
From the time of the birth of this child , her health gradually sunk . 
There was no end of her various complaints but her principal forte appeared to lie in sick headache , which sometimes would confine her to her room three days out of six . 
As , of course , all family arrangements fell into the hands of servants , St . 
Clare found his menage anything but comfortable . 
He had taken her with him on a tour to Vermont , and had persuaded his cousin , Miss Ophelia St . 
Clare , to return with him to his southern residence and they are now returning on this boat , where we have introduced them to our readers . 
And now , while the distant domes and spires of New Orleans rise to our view , there is yet time for an introduction to Miss Ophelia . 
, by the French historian Charles Rollin . 
, edited with notes by the English Biblical commentator , Thomas Scott . 
, son of the geographer , Jedidiah Morse , and brother of the painter inventor , Samuel F. B. Morse . 
by Timothy Flint , missionary of Presbyterianism to the trans Allegheny West . 
It was known at the minister's and at the doctor's , and at Miss Peabody's milliner shop , that Ophelia St . 
Clare was talking about going away down to Orleans with her cousin and of course the whole village could do no less than help this very important process of taking about the matter . 
He was of opinion , in fact , that southern people needed encouraging . 
Miss Ophelia , as you now behold her , stands before you , in a very shining brown linen travelling dress , tall , square formed , and angular . 
In her habits , she was a living impersonation of order , method , and exactness . 
In punctuality , she was as inevitable as a clock , and as inexorable as a railroad engine and she held in most decided contempt and abomination anything of a contrary character . 
The great sin of sins , in her eyes , the sum of all evils , was expressed by one very common and important word in her vocabulary shiftlessness . 
So , also , were her ideas with regard to most matters of practical life , such as housekeeping in all its branches , and the various political relations of her native village . 
And , underlying all , deeper than anything else , higher and broader , lay the strongest principle of her being conscientiousness . 
Nowhere is conscience so dominant and all absorbing as with New England women . 
It is the granite formation , which lies deepest , and rises out , even to the tops of the highest mountains . 
Miss Ophelia was the absolute bond slave of the ought . 
Once make her certain that the path of duty , as she commonly phrased it , lay in any given direction , and fire and water could not keep her from it . 
She would walk straight down into a well , or up to a loaded cannon's mouth , if she were only quite sure that there the path lay . 
But , how in the world can Miss Ophelia get along with Augustine St . 
But what more or other is to be known of Miss Ophelia our reader must discover by a personal acquaintance . 
Well , never mind I'll look your box over , thimble , wax , two spools , scissors , knife , tape needle all right , put it in here . 
What did you ever do , child , when you were coming on with only your papa . 
I should have thought you'd a lost everything you had . 
Well , aunty , I did lose a great many and then , when we stopped anywhere , papa would buy some more of whatever it was . 
Mercy on us , child , what a way ! It was a very easy way , aunty , said Eva . 
It's a dreadful shiftless one , said aunty . 
Why , aunty , what'll you do now ? said Eva that trunk is too full to be shut down . 
Get up here , Eva ! said Miss Ophelia , courageously what has been done can be done again . 
This trunk has got to be shut and locked there are no two ways about it . 
And the trunk , intimidated , doubtless , by this resolute statement , gave in . 
The hasp snapped sharply in its hole , and Miss Ophelia turned the key , and pocketed it in triumph . 
Where's your papa ? I think it time this baggage was set out . 
Do look out , Eva , and see if you see your papa . 
O , yes , he's down the other end of the gentlemen's cabin , eating an orange . 
Do step on the guards , aunty . 
Eva joyously pointed out the various spires , domes , and way marks , by which she recognized her native city . 
Yes , yes , dear very fine , said Miss Ophelia . 
Miss Ophelia seated herself resolutely on the lately vanquished trunk , and marshalling all her goods and chattels in fine military order , seemed resolved to defend them to the last . 
I've been ready , waiting , nearly an hour , said Miss Ophelia I began to be really concerned about you . 
That's a clever fellow , now , said he . 
Well , the carriage is waiting , and the crowd are now off , so that one can walk out in a decent and Christian manner , and not be pushed and shoved . 
Here , he added to a driver who stood behind him , take these things . 
I'll go and see to his putting them in , said Miss Ophelia . 
O , pshaw , cousin , what's the use ? said St . 
Well , at any rate , I'll carry this , and this , and this , said Miss Ophelia , singling out three boxes and a small carpet bag . 
My dear Miss Vermont , positively you mustn't come the Green Mountains over us that way . 
You must adopt at least a piece of a southern principle , and not walk out under all that load . 
They'll take you for a waiting maid give them to this fellow he'll put them down as if they were eggs , now . 
Miss Ophelia looked despairingly as her cousin took all her treasures from her , and rejoiced to find herself once more in the carriage with them , in a state of preservation . 
Where's Tom ? said Eva . 
O , he's on the outside , Pussy . 
I'm going to take Tom up to mother for a peace offering , to make up for that drunken fellow that upset the carriage . 
O , Tom will make a splendid driver , I know , said Eva he'll never get drunk . 
The carriage stopped in front of an ancient mansion , built in that odd mixture of Spanish and French style , of which there are specimens in some parts of New Orleans . 
It was built in the Moorish fashion , a square building enclosing a court yard , into which the carriage drove through an arched gateway . 
The court , in the inside , had evidently been arranged to gratify a picturesque and voluptuous ideality . 
The water in the fountain , pellucid as crystal , was alive with myriads of gold and silver fishes , twinkling and darting through it like so many living jewels . 
The galleries that surrounded the court were festooned with a curtain of some kind of Moorish stuff , and could be drawn down at pleasure , to exclude the beams of the sun . 
On the whole , the appearance of the place was luxurious and romantic . 
As the carriage drove in , Eva seemed like a bird ready to burst from a cage , with the wild eagerness of her delight . 
O , isn't it beautiful , lovely ! my own dear , darling home ! she said to Miss Ophelia . 
Isn't it beautiful ? 'T is a pretty place , said Miss Ophelia , as she alighted though it looks rather old and heathenish to me . 
Tom got down from the carriage , and looked about with an air of calm , still enjoyment . 
Yes , Mas'r , it looks about the right thing , said Tom . 
This personage had been exerting himself , with great alacrity , in driving all the flock of domestics to the other end of the verandah . 
Back ! all of you . 
I am ashamed of you , he said , in a tone of authority . 
Owing to Mr. Adolph's systematic arrangements , when St . 
Well , well , said St . 
Clare , passing on , with his usual air of negligent drollery , that's very well got up , Adolph . 
See that the baggage is well bestowed . 
I'll come to the people in a minute and , so saying , he led Miss Ophelia to a large parlor that opened on the verandah . 
While this had been passing , Eva had flown like a bird , through the porch and parlor , to a little boudoir opening likewise on the verandah . 
A tall , dark eyed , sallow woman , half rose from a couch on which she was reclining . 
Mamma ! said Eva , in a sort of a rapture , throwing herself on her neck , and embracing her over and over again . 
That'll do , take care , child , don't , you make my head ache , said the mother , after she had languidly kissed her . 
Clare came in , embraced his wife in true , orthodox , husbandly fashion , and then presented to her his cousin . 
Marie lifted her large eyes on her cousin with an air of some curiosity , and received her with languid politeness . 
O , there's Mammy ! said Eva , as she flew across the room and , throwing herself into her arms , she kissed her repeatedly . 
Well ! said Miss Ophelia , you southern children can do something that I couldn't . 
What , now , pray ? said St . 
Well , I want to be kind to everybody , and I wouldn't have anything hurt but as to kissing Niggers , said St . 
Clare , that you're not up to , hey ? Yes , that's it . 
How can she ? St . 
Clare laughed , as he went into the passage . 
Look out for the babies ! he added , as he stumbled over a sooty little urchin , who was crawling upon all fours . 
If I step upon anybody , let 'em mention it . 
There was an abundance of laughing and blessing Mas'r , as St . 
Clare distributed small pieces of change among them . 
O ! Master , this vest all stained with wine of course , a gentleman in Master's standing never wears a vest like this . 
I understood I was to take it . 
It does for a poor nigger fellow , like me . 
And Adolph tossed his head , and passed his fingers through his scented hair , with a grace . 
So , that's it , is it ? said St . 
He's worth two such puppies as you . 
Master always will have his joke , said Adolph , laughing . 
I'm delighted to see Master in such spirits . 
Here , Tom , said St . 
He looked afraid even to set his feet down . 
See here , Marie , said St . 
Clare to his wife , I've bought you a coachman , at last , to order . 
I tell you , he's a regular hearse for blackness and sobriety , and will drive you like a funeral , if you want . 
Open your eyes , now , and look at him . 
Now , don't say I never think about you when I'm gone . 
Marie opened her eyes , and fixed them on Tom , without rising . 
I know he'll get drunk , she said . 
No , he's warranted a pious and sober article . 
Well , I hope he may turn out well , said the lady it's more than I expect , though . 
Clare , show Tom down stairs and , mind yourself , he added remember what I told you . 
Adolph tripped gracefully forward , and Tom , with lumbering tread , went after . 
He's a perfect behemoth ! said Marie . 
Come , now , Marie , said St . 
Clare , seating himself on a stool beside her sofa , be gracious , and say something pretty to a fellow . 
You've been gone a fortnight beyond the time , said the lady , pouting . 
Well , you know I wrote you the reason . 
Such a short , cold letter ! said the lady . 
Dear me ! the mail was just going , and it had to be that or nothing . 
That's just the way , always , said the lady always something to make your journeys long , and letters short . 
See here , now , he added , drawing an elegant velvet case out of his pocket , and opening it , here's a present I got for you in New York . 
It was a daguerreotype , clear and soft as an engraving , representing Eva and her father sitting hand in hand . 
Marie looked at it with a dissatisfied air . 
What made you sit in such an awkward position ? she said . 
Hang the woman ! said St . 
Clare , mentally but aloud he added , Come , now , Marie , what do you think of the likeness ? Don't be nonsensical , now . 
It's very inconsiderate of you , St . 
Clare , said the lady , to insist on my talking and looking at things . 
You know I've been lying all day with the sick headache and there's been such a tumult made ever since you came , I'm half dead . 
Yes , I'm a perfect martyr to it , said the lady . 
Juniper berry tea is good for sick headache , said Miss Ophelia at least , Auguste , Deacon Abraham Perry's wife , used to say so and she was a great nurse . 
I'll have the first juniper berries that get ripe in our garden by the lake brought in for that special purpose , said St . 
Clare , gravely pulling the bell as he did so meanwhile , cousin , you must be wanting to retire to your apartment , and refresh yourself a little , after your journey . 
Dolph , he added , tell Mammy to come here . 
CHAPTER XVI Tom's Mistress and Her Opinions And now , Marie , said St . 
Clare , your golden days are dawning . 
The ceremony of delivering the keys had better come off forthwith . 
This remark was made at the breakfast table , a few mornings after Miss Ophelia had arrived . 
I'm sure she's welcome , said Marie , leaning her head languidly on her hand . 
I think she'll find one thing , if she does , and that is , that it's we mistresses that are the slaves , down here . 
O , certainly , she will discover that , and a world of wholesome truths besides , no doubt , said St . 
Talk about our keeping slaves , as if we did it for our convenience , said Marie . 
I'm sure , if we consulted that , we might let them all go at once . 
I believe that more of my ill health is caused by them than by any one thing and ours , I know , are the very worst that ever anybody was plagued with . 
O , come , Marie , you've got the blues , this morning , said St . 
You know 't isn't so . 
Selfishness is a dreadful fault , said St . 
I absolutely am worse , this very morning , for the efforts I had to make to wake her last night . 
Hasn't she sat up with you a good many nights , lately , mamma ? said Eva . 
How should you know that ? said Marie , sharply she's been complaining , I suppose . 
She didn't complain she only told me what bad nights you'd had , so many in succession . 
Why don't you let Jane or Rosa take her place , a night or two , said St . 
Clare , and let her rest ? How can you propose it ? said Marie . 
Clare , you really are inconsiderate . 
So nervous as I am , the least breath disturbs me and a strange hand about me would drive me absolutely frantic . 
If Mammy felt the interest in me she ought to , she'd wake easier , of course , she would . 
I've heard of people who had such devoted servants , but it never was my luck and Marie sighed . 
Now , Mammy has a sort of goodness , said Marie she's smooth and respectful , but she's selfish at heart . 
Now , she never will be done fidgeting and worrying about that husband of hers . 
You see , when I was married and came to live here , of course , I had to bring her with me , and her husband my father couldn't spare . 
I wish , now , I'd insisted on it , and married Mammy to somebody else but I was foolish and indulgent , and didn't want to insist . 
Mammy has a kind of obstinacy about her , in spots , that everybody don't see as I do . 
Has she children ? said Miss Ophelia . 
I suppose she feels the separation from them ? Well , of course , I couldn't bring them . 
I do , indeed , said Marie they are just so selfish , now , the best of them . 
It's distressing to reflect upon , said St . 
Miss Ophelia looked keenly at him , and saw the flush of mortification and repressed vexation , and the sarcastic curl of the lip , as he spoke . 
Now , Mammy has always been a pet with me , said Marie . 
I wish some of your northern servants could look at her closets of dresses , silks and muslins , and one real linen cambric , she has hanging there . 
I've worked sometimes whole afternoons , trimming her caps , and getting her ready to go to a party . 
As to abuse , she don't know what it is . 
She never was whipped more than once or twice in her whole life . 
She has her strong coffee or her tea every day , with white sugar in it . 
It's abominable , to be sure but St . 
Clare will have high life below stairs , and they every one of them live just as they please . 
The fact is , our servants are over indulged . 
I suppose it is partly our fault that they are selfish , and act like spoiled children but I've talked to St . 
Clare till I am tired . 
And I , too , said St . 
Clare , taking up the morning paper . 
Eva , the beautiful Eva , had stood listening to her mother , with that expression of deep and mystic earnestness which was peculiar to her . 
She walked softly round to her mother's chair , and put her arms round her neck . 
Well , Eva , what now ? said Marie . 
Mamma , couldn't I take care of you one night just one ? I know I shouldn't make you nervous , and I shouldn't sleep . 
She told me her head ached all the time , lately . 
If you encourage servants in giving way to every little disagreeable feeling , and complaining of every little ailment , you'll have your hands full . 
I never complain myself nobody knows what I endure . 
I feel it a duty to bear it quietly , and I do . 
Miss Ophelia's round eyes expressed an undisguised amazement at this peroration , which struck St . 
Clare as so supremely ludicrous , that he burst into a loud laugh . 
Clare always laughs when I make the least allusion to my ill health , said Marie , with the voice of a suffering martyr . 
I only hope the day won't come when he'll remember it ! and Marie put her handkerchief to her eyes . 
Of course , there was rather a foolish silence . 
Clare got up , looked at his watch , and said he had an engagement down street . 
Eva tripped away after him , and Miss Ophelia and Marie remained at the table alone . 
Now , that's just like St . 
Clare ! said the latter , withdrawing her handkerchief with somewhat of a spirited flourish when the criminal to be affected by it was no longer in sight . 
He never realizes , never can , never will , what I suffer , and have , for years . 
If I was one of the complaining sort , or ever made any fuss about my ailments , there would be some reason for it . 
Men do get tired , naturally , of a complaining wife . 
But I've kept things to myself , and borne , and borne , till St . 
Clare has got in the way of thinking I can bear anything . 
Miss Ophelia did not exactly know what she was expected to answer to this . 
She seems to be a good child , very , said Miss Ophelia I never saw a better child . 
Eva's peculiar , said her mother , very . 
There are things about her so singular she isn't like me , now , a particle and Marie sighed , as if this was a truly melancholy consideration . 
Miss Ophelia in her own heart said , I hope she isn't , but had prudence enough to keep it down . 
Eva always was disposed to be with servants and I think that well enough with some children . 
Now , I always played with father's little negroes it never did me any harm . 
But Eva somehow always seems to put herself on an equality with every creature that comes near her . 
It's a strange thing about the child . 
I never have been able to break her of it . 
Clare , I believe , encourages her in it . 
The fact is , St . 
Clare indulges every creature under this roof but his own wife . 
Again Miss Ophelia sat in blank silence . 
Now , there's no way with servants , said Marie , but to put them down , and keep them down . 
It was always natural to me , from a child . 
Eva is enough to spoil a whole house full . 
What she will do when she comes to keep house herself , I'm sure I don't know . 
I hold to being kind to servants I always am but you must make 'em know their place . 
Why , said Miss Ophelia , bluntly , I suppose you think your servants are human creatures , and ought to have some rest when they are tired . 
I'm very particular in letting them have everything that comes convenient , anything that doesn't put one at all out of the way , you know . 
Mammy can make up her sleep , some time or other there's no difficulty about that . 
She's the sleepiest concern that ever I saw sewing , standing , or sitting , that creature will go to sleep , and sleep anywhere and everywhere . 
No danger but Mammy gets sleep enough . 
It isn't my habit 't isn't agreeable to me . 
In fact , I haven't strength to do it . 
But there are points where St . 
Clare never understood me , never appreciated me . 
I think it lies at the root of all my ill health . 
Clare means well , I am bound to believe but men are constitutionally selfish and inconsiderate to woman . 
That , at least , is my impression . 
I don't want anything to do with your affairs , in fact , she looked about as sympathizing as a stone lion . 
But Marie didn't care for that . 
You see , I brought my own property and servants into the connection , when I married St . 
Clare , and I am legally entitled to manage them my own way . 
Clare had his fortune and his servants , and I'm well enough content he should manage them his way but St . 
He has wild , extravagant notions about things , particularly about the treatment of servants . 
Now , about some things , St . 
Clare is really frightful he frightens me good natured as he looks , in general . 
Well , you may see what that leads to for St . 
Clare wouldn't raise his hand , if every one of them walked over him , and I you see how cruel it would be to require me to make the exertion . 
Now , you know these servants are nothing but grown up children . 
I don't know anything about it , and I thank the Lord that I don't ! said Miss Ophelia , shortly . 
Well , but you will have to know something , and know it to your cost , if you stay here . 
You don't know what a provoking , stupid , careless , unreasonable , childish , ungrateful set of wretches they are . 
Marie seemed wonderfully supported , always , when she got upon this topic and she now opened her eyes , and seemed quite to forget her languor . 
You don't know , and you can't , the daily , hourly trials that beset a housekeeper from them , everywhere and every way . 
But it's no use to complain to St . 
He talks the strangest stuff . 
He says we have made them what they are , and ought to bear with them . 
He says their faults are all owing to us , and that it would be cruel to make the fault and punish it too . 
He says we shouldn't do any better , in their place just as if one could reason from them to us , you know . 
Don't you believe that the Lord made them of one blood with us ? said Miss Ophelia , shortly . 
No , indeed not I ! A pretty story , truly ! They are a degraded race . 
Don't you think they've got immortal souls ? said Miss Ophelia , with increasing indignation . 
O , well , said Marie , yawning , that , of course nobody doubts that . 
But as to putting them on any sort of equality with us , you know , as if we could be compared , why , it's impossible ! Now , St . 
Clare really has talked to me as if keeping Mammy from her husband was like keeping me from mine . 
There's no comparing in this way . 
Mammy couldn't have the feelings that I should . 
It's a different thing altogether , of course , it is , and yet St . 
Clare pretends not to see it . 
And just as if Mammy could love her little dirty babies as I love Eva ! Yet St . 
That was a little too much even for me to bear . 
I don't often show my feelings , I make it a principle to endure everything in silence it's a wife's hard lot , and I bear it . 
But I did break out , that time so that he has never alluded to the subject since . 
So , you just see , she continued , what you've got to manage . 
I keep my cowhide about , and sometimes I do lay it on but the exertion is always too much for me . 
Clare would only have this thing done as others do And how's that ? Why , send them to the calaboose , or some of the other places to be flogged . 
If I wasn't such a poor , feeble piece , I believe I should manage with twice the energy that St . 
Clare contrive to manage ? said Miss Ophelia . 
You say he never strikes a blow . 
I'm afraid of it , myself and the servants know they must mind . 
I couldn't do as much by a regular storm and scolding as St . 
Clare can by one turn of his eye , if once he is in earnest . 
O , there's no trouble about St . 
Clare that's the reason he's no more feeling for me . 
But you'll find , when you come to manage , that there's no getting along without severity , they are so bad , so deceitful , so lazy . 
The old tune , said St . 
Come , now , St . 
Clare , you are too bad ! said Marie . 
Am I , now ? Why , I thought I was talking good , quite remarkably for me . 
I try to enforce your remarks , Marie , always . 
You know you meant no such thing , St . 
O , I must have been mistaken , then . 
Thank you , my dear , for setting me right . 
You do really try to be provoking , said Marie . 
What's the matter about Dolph ? said Marie . 
That fellow's impudence has been growing to a point that is perfectly intolerable to me . 
I only wish I had the undisputed management of him a while . 
I'd bring him down ! What you say , my dear , is marked with your usual acuteness and good sense , said St . 
Dolph was particularly huffy about it , and I had to talk to him like a father , to bring him round . 
Clare , when will you learn how to treat your servants ? It's abominable , the way you indulge them ! said Marie . 
Too much trouble , laziness , cousin , laziness , which ruins more souls than you can shake a stick at . 
If it weren't for laziness , I should have been a perfect angel , myself . 
I'm inclined to think that laziness is what your old Dr . 
Botherem , up in Vermont , used to call the essence of moral evil . 
It's an awful consideration , certainly . 
I think you slaveholders have an awful responsibility upon you , said Miss Ophelia . 
I wouldn't have it , for a thousand worlds . 
You ought to educate your slaves , and treat them like reasonable creatures , like immortal creatures , that you've got to stand before the bar of God with . 
That's my mind , said the good lady , breaking suddenly out with a tide of zeal that had been gaining strength in her mind all the morning . 
O ! come , come , said St . 
Clare , getting up quickly what do you know about us ? And he sat down to the piano , and rattled a lively piece of music . 
Clare had a decided genius for music . 
His touch was brilliant and firm , and his fingers flew over the keys with a rapid and bird like motion , airy , and yet decided . 
He played piece after piece , like a man who is trying to play himself into a good humor . 
For my part , I don't see any use in such sort of talk , said Marie . 
You see , Cousin Ophelia , I've tried , and you haven't I was born and bred among them , and I know . 
Miss Ophelia thought she had said enough , and therefore sat silent . 
Clare , I wish you wouldn't whistle , said Marie it makes my head worse . 
I won't , said St . 
Is there anything else you wouldn't wish me to do ? I wish you would have some kind of sympathy for my trials you never have any feeling for me . 
My dear accusing angel ! said St . 
It's provoking to be talked to in that way . 
Then , how will you be talked to ? I'll talk to order , any way you'll mention , only to give satisfaction . 
A gay laugh from the court rang through the silken curtains of the verandah . 
Clare stepped out , and lifting up the curtain , laughed too . 
What is it ? said Miss Ophelia , coming to the railing . 
He lifted his eyes , when he saw his master , with a half deprecating , apologetic air . 
How can you let her ? said Miss Ophelia . 
Why not ? said St . 
I know the feeling among some of you northerners well enough . 
Not that there is a particle of virtue in our not having it but custom with us does what Christianity ought to do , obliterates the feeling of personal prejudice . 
I have often noticed , in my travels north , how much stronger this was with you than with us . 
You loathe them as you would a snake or a toad , yet you are indignant at their wrongs . 
You would not have them abused but you don't want to have anything to do with them yourselves . 
You would send them to Africa , out of your sight and smell , and then send a missionary or two to do up all the self denial of elevating them compendiously . 
Isn't that it ? Well , cousin , said Miss Ophelia , thoughtfully , there may be some truth in this . 
What would the poor and lowly do , without children ? said St . 
Clare , leaning on the railing , and watching Eva , as she tripped off , leading Tom with her . 
Your little child is your only true democrat . 
This is one of the roses of Eden that the Lord has dropped down expressly for the poor and lowly , who get few enough of any other kind . 
It's strange , cousin , said Miss Ophelia , one might almost think you were a professor , to hear you talk . 
A professor ? said St . 
Yes a professor of religion . 
Not at all not a professor , as your town folks have it and , what is worse , I'm afraid , not a practiser , either . 
What makes you talk so , then ? Nothing is easier than talking , said St . 
I believe Shakespeare makes somebody say , I could sooner show twenty what were good to be done , than be one of the twenty to follow my own showing . 
Nothing like division of labor . 
My forte lies in talking , and yours , cousin , lies in doing . 
The Merchant of Venice , Act , scene , lines . 
He was kept well dressed , for St . 
Clare was fastidiously particular on this point . 
His stable services were merely a sinecure , and consisted simply in a daily care and inspection , and directing an under servant in his duties for Marie St . 
If ever Africa shall show an elevated and cultivated race , and come it must , some time , her turn to figure in the great drama of human improvement . 
life will awake there with a gorgeousness and splendor of which our cold western tribes faintly have conceived . 
Was this what Marie St . 
Clare was thinking of , as she stood , gorgeously dressed , on the verandah , on Sunday morning , clasping a diamond bracelet on her slender wrist ? Most likely it was . 
Marie always made a point to be very pious on Sundays . 
There she stood , so slender , so elegant , so airy and undulating in all her motions , her lace scarf enveloping her like a mist . 
She looked a graceful creature , and she felt very good and very elegant indeed . 
Miss Ophelia stood at her side , a perfect contrast . 
The child stopped on the stairs , to say something to Mammy . 
And what was Eva saying to Mammy on the stairs ? Listen , reader , and you will hear , though Marie does not . 
Dear Mammy , I know your head is aching dreadfully . 
Lord bless you , Miss Eva ! my head allers aches lately . 
You don't need to worry . 
Well , I'm glad you're going out and here , and the little girl threw her arms around her , Mammy , you shall take my vinaigrette . 
What ! your beautiful gold thing , thar , with them diamonds ! Lor , Miss , 't wouldn't be proper , no ways . 
Why not ? You need it , and I don't . 
Mamma always uses it for headache , and it'll make you feel better . 
No , you shall take it , to please me , now . 
Do hear the darlin talk ! said Mammy , as Eva thrust it into her bosom , and kissing her , ran down stairs to her mother . 
What were you stopping for ? I was just stopping to give Mammy my vinaigrette , to take to church with her . 
I say , Marie , let the child alone she shall do as she pleases , said St . 
Clare , how will she ever get along in the world ? said Marie . 
The Lord knows , said St . 
Clare , but she'll get along in heaven better than you or I. O , papa , don't , said Eva , softly touching his elbow it troubles mother . 
Well , cousin , are you ready to go to meeting ? said Miss Ophelia , turning square about on St . 
I'm not going , thank you . 
Clare ever would go to church , said Marie but he hasn't a particle of religion about him . 
I know it , said St . 
You ladies go to church to learn how to get along in the world , I suppose , and your piety sheds respectability on us . 
If I did go at all , I would go where Mammy goes there's something to keep a fellow awake there , at least . 
What ! those shouting Methodists ? Horrible ! said Marie . 
Anything but the dead sea of your respectable churches , Marie . 
Positively , it's too much to ask of a man . 
Eva , do you like to go ? Come , stay at home and play with me . 
Thank you , papa but I'd rather go to church . 
Isn't it dreadful tiresome ? said St . 
I think it is tiresome , some , said Eva , and I am sleepy , too , but I try to keep awake . 
It isn't so very tiresome after all . 
You sweet , little obliging soul ! said St . 
Clare , kissing her go along , that's a good girl , and pray for me . 
Certainly , I always do , said the child , as she sprang after her mother into the carriage . 
Clare stood on the steps and kissed his hand to her , as the carriage drove away large tears were in his eyes . 
Now , if Mammy was sick , you wouldn't want to put her in your own bed . 
Marie was in utter despair at the entire want of moral perception evinced in this reply . 
What can I do to make this child understand me ? she said . 
Nothing , said Miss Ophelia , significantly . 
Well , ladies , said St . 
Clare , as they were comfortably seated at the dinner table , and what was the bill of fare at church today ? O , Dr . 
G preached a splendid sermon , said Marie . 
It was just such a sermon as you ought to hear it expressed all my views exactly . 
It must have been very improving , said St . 
The subject must have been an extensive one . 
Well , I mean all my views about society , and such things , said Marie . 
I only wish you'd heard him . 
O , I didn't need it , said St . 
I do think , Augustine , you are so irreverent ! said Marie . 
I think it's shocking to hear you talk . 
Shocking ! it's the truth . 
Well , said Miss Ophelia , do you think slavery right or wrong ? I'm not going to have any of your horrid New England directness , cousin , said St . 
If I answer that question , I know you'll be at me with half a dozen others , each one harder than the last and I'm not a going to define my position . 
I am one of the sort that lives by throwing stones at other people's glass houses , but I never mean to put up one for them to stone . 
That's just the way he's always talking , said Marie you can't get any satisfaction out of him . 
I believe it's just because he don't like religion , that he's always running out in this way he's been doing . 
Clare , in a tone that made both ladies look at him . 
Then you don't believe that the Bible justifies slavery , said Miss Ophelia . 
The Bible was my mother's book , said St . 
By it she lived and died , and I would be very sorry to think it did . 
In short , you see , said he , suddenly resuming his gay tone , all I want is that different things be kept in different boxes . 
The whole frame work of society , both in Europe and America , is made up of various things which will not stand the scrutiny of any very ideal standard of morality . 
It's pretty generally understood that men don't aspire after the absolute right , but only to do about as well as the rest of the world . 
But when he begins to put on a long face , and snuffle , and quote Scripture , I incline to think he isn't much better than he should be . 
You are very uncharitable , said Marie . 
I say , what do you think , Pussy ? said her father to Eva , who came in at this moment , with a flower in her hand . 
Why so ? said St . 
Clare , stroking her head . 
Why , it makes so many more round you to love , you know , said Eva , looking up earnestly . 
Now , that's just like Eva , said Marie just one of her odd speeches . 
Is it an odd speech , papa ? said Eva , whisperingly , as she got upon his knee . 
Rather , as this world goes , Pussy , said St . 
But where has my little Eva been , all dinner time ? O , I've been up in Tom's room , hearing him sing , and Aunt Dinah gave me my dinner . 
Hearing Tom sing , hey ? O , yes ! he sings such beautiful things about the New Jerusalem , and bright angels , and the land of Canaan . 
I dare say it's better than the opera , isn't it ? Yes , and he's going to teach them to me . 
Singing lessons , hey ? you are coming on . 
Yes , he sings for me , and I read to him in my Bible and he explains what it means , you know . 
On my word , said Marie , laughing , that is the latest joke of the season . 
Tom isn't a bad hand , now , at explaining Scripture , I'll dare swear , said St . 
Tom has a natural genius for religion . 
He put in for me , with a zeal that was quite apostolic . 
Perhaps he guessed you were listening . 
I've heard of that trick before . 
If he did , he wasn't very polite for he gave the Lord his opinion of me , pretty freely . 
Tom seemed to think there was decidedly room for improvement in me , and seemed very earnest that I should be converted . 
I hope you'll lay it to heart , said Miss Ophelia . 
I suppose you are much of the same opinion , said St . 
Well , we shall see , shan't we , Eva ? CHAPTER XVII The Freeman's Defence There was a gentle bustle at the Quaker house , as the afternoon drew to a close . 
He was sitting with his child on his knee , and his wife's hand in his . 
Both looked thoughtful and serious and traces of tears were on their cheeks . 
Yes , Eliza , said George , I know all you say is true . 
You are a good child , a great deal better than I am and I will try to do as you say . 
I'll try to act worthy of a free man . 
I'll try to feel like a Christian . 
And when we get to Canada , said Eliza , I can help you . 
I can do dress making very well and I understand fine washing and ironing and between us we can find something to live on . 
Yes , Eliza , so long as we have each other and our boy . 
Why , I feel rich and strong , though we have nothing but our bare hands . 
I feel as if I could scarcely ask God for any more . 
As to my old master , he has been paid five times over for all he ever spent for me . 
I don't owe him anything . 
But yet we are not quite out of danger , said Eliza we are not yet in Canada . 
True , said George , but it seems as if I smelt the free air , and it makes me strong . 
At this moment , voices were heard in the outer apartment , in earnest conversation , and very soon a rap was heard on the door . 
Eliza started and opened it . 
Simeon Halliday was there , and with him a Quaker brother , whom he introduced as Phineas Fletcher . 
Phineas was tall and lathy , red haired , with an expression of great acuteness and shrewdness in his face . 
Our friend Phineas hath discovered something of importance to the interests of thee and thy party , George , said Simeon it were well for thee to hear it . 
That I have , said Phineas , and it shows the use of a man's always sleeping with one ear open , in certain places , as I've always said . 
Last night I stopped at a little lone tavern , back on the road . 
Thee remembers the place , Simeon , where we sold some apples , last year , to that fat woman , with the great ear rings . 
With one ear open , Phineas ? said Simeon , quietly . 
So , says one , they are up in the Quaker settlement , no doubt , says he . 
Then I listened with both ears , and I found that they were talking about this very party . 
So I lay and heard them lay off all their plans . 
They've got a right notion of the track we are going tonight and they'll be down after us , six or eight strong . 
So now , what's to be done ? The group that stood in various attitudes , after this communication , were worthy of a painter . 
Simeon looked profoundly thoughtful Eliza had thrown her arms around her husband , and was looking up to him . 
What shall we do , George ? said Eliza faintly . 
I know what I shall do , said George , as he stepped into the little room , and began examining pistols . 
Ay , ay , said Phineas , nodding his head to Simeon thou seest , Simeon , how it will work . 
I see , said Simeon , sighing I pray it come not to that . 
I don't want to involve any one with or for me , said George . 
If you will lend me your vehicle and direct me , I will drive alone to the next stand . 
Thee's quite welcome to do all the fighting , thee knows but I know a thing or two about the road , that thee doesn't . 
But I don't want to involve you , said George . 
Involve , said Phineas , with a curious and keen expression of face , When thee does involve me , please to let me know . 
Phineas is a wise and skilful man , said Simeon . 
I will attack no man , said George . 
Can you blame me ? Mortal man cannot blame thee , George . 
Flesh and blood could not do otherwise , said Simeon . 
Woe unto the world because of offences , but woe unto them through whom the offence cometh . 
Would not even you , sir , do the same , in my place ? I pray that I be not tried , said Simeon the flesh is weak . 
I think my flesh would be pretty tolerable strong , in such a case , said Phineas , stretching out a pair of arms like the sails of a windmill . 
I an't sure , friend George , that I shouldn't hold a fellow for thee , if thee had any accounts to settle with him . 
Let us pray the Lord that we be not tempted . 
And so I do , said Phineas but if we are tempted too much why , let them look out , that's all . 
It's quite plain thee wasn't born a Friend , said Simeon , smiling . 
The old nature hath its way in thee pretty strong as yet . 
Friend Phineas will ever have ways of his own , said Rachel Halliday , smiling but we all think that his heart is in the right place , after all . 
Michael keeps a horse that can soon get ahead of most other horses and he could shoot ahead and let us know , if there were any danger . 
I am going out now to warn Jim and the old woman to be in readiness , and to see about the horse . 
We have a pretty fair start , and stand a good chance to get to the stand before they can come up with us . 
So , have good courage , friend George this isn't the first ugly scrape that I've been in with thy people , said Phineas , as he closed the door . 
Phineas is pretty shrewd , said Simeon . 
He will do the best that can be done for thee , George . 
All I am sorry for , said George , is the risk to you . 
Thee'll much oblige us , friend George , to say no more about that . 
What we do we are conscience bound to do we can do no other way . 
And now , mother , said he , turning to Rachel , hurry thy preparations for these friends , for we must not send them away fasting . 
Till I knew you , Eliza , no creature had loved me , but my poor , heart broken mother and sister . 
I saw poor Emily that morning the trader carried her off . 
She came to the corner where I was lying asleep , and said , Poor George , your last friend is going . 
Whoever gets you must walk over my dead body . 
O , Lord , have mercy ! said Eliza , sobbing . 
If he will only let us get out of this country together , that is all we ask . 
Is God on their side ? said George , speaking less to his wife than pouring out his own bitter thoughts . 
Does he see all they do ? Why does he let such things happen ? And they tell us that the Bible is on their side certainly all the power is . 
They buy 'em and sell 'em , and make trade of their heart's blood , and groans and tears , and God lets them . 
Friend George , said Simeon , from the kitchen , listen to this Psalm it may do thee good . 
For I was envious of the foolish , when I saw the prosperity of the wicked . 
They are not in trouble like other men , neither are they plagued like other men . 
Therefore , pride compasseth them as a chain violence covereth them as a garment . 
Their eyes stand out with fatness they have more than heart could wish . 
They are corrupt , and speak wickedly concerning oppression they speak loftily . 
Then , hear , said Simeon When I thought to know this , it was too painful for me until I went unto the sanctuary of God . 
Then understood I their end . 
Surely thou didst set them in slippery places , thou castedst them down to destruction . 
As a dream when one awaketh , so , oh Lord , when thou awakest , thou shalt despise their image . 
Nevertheless I am continually with thee thou hast holden me by my right hand . 
Thou shalt guide me by thy counsel , and afterwards receive me to glory . 
It is good for me to draw near unto God . 
I have put my trust in the Lord God . 
, The End of the Wicked contrasted with that of the Righteous . 
Put thy trust in him and , no matter what befalls thee here , he will make all right hereafter . 
And now Rachel took Eliza's hand kindly , and led the way to the supper table . 
As they were sitting down , a light tap sounded at the door , and Ruth entered . 
I just ran in , she said , with these little stockings for the boy , three pair , nice , warm woollen ones . 
It will be so cold , thee knows , in Canada . 
I brought a little parcel of these for him , she said , tugging at her pocket to get out the package . 
Children , thee knows , will always be eating . 
O , thank you you are too kind , said Eliza . 
Come , Ruth , sit down to supper , said Rachel . 
I couldn't , any way . 
That's the way he does , said the little Quakeress , laughing . 
So , good by , Eliza good by , George the Lord grant thee a safe journey and , with a few tripping steps , Ruth was out of the apartment . 
A little while after supper , a large covered wagon drew up before the door the night was clear starlight and Phineas jumped briskly down from his seat to arrange his passengers . 
George walked out of the door , with his child on one arm and his wife on the other . 
His step was firm , his face settled and resolute . 
Rachel and Simeon came out after them . 
You get out , a moment , said Phineas to those inside , and let me fix the back of the wagon , there , for the women folks and the boy . 
Here are the two buffaloes , said Rachel . 
Make the seats as comfortable as may be it's hard riding all night . 
Jim came out first , and carefully assisted out his old mother , who clung to his arm , and looked anxiously about , as if she expected the pursuer every moment . 
Jim , are your pistols all in order ? said George , in a low , firm voice . 
Yes , indeed , said Jim . 
And you've no doubt what you shall do , if they come ? I rather think I haven't , said Jim , throwing open his broad chest , and taking a deep breath . 
The old woman was next handed in and seated and George and Jim placed on a rough board seat front of them , and Phineas mounted in front . 
Farewell , my friends , said Simeon , from without . 
God bless you ! answered all from within . 
And the wagon drove off , rattling and jolting over the frozen road . 
There was no opportunity for conversation , on account of the roughness of the way and the noise of the wheels . 
The child soon fell asleep , and lay heavily in his mother's lap . 
The poor , frightened old woman at last forgot her fears and , even Eliza , as the night waned , found all her anxieties insufficient to keep her eyes from closing . 
Phineas seemed , on the whole , the briskest of the company , and beguiled his long drive with whistling certain very unquaker like songs , as he went on . 
But about three o'clock George's ear caught the hasty and decided click of a horse's hoof coming behind them at some distance and jogged Phineas by the elbow . 
Phineas pulled up his horses , and listened . 
That must be Michael , he said I think I know the sound of his gallop and he rose up and stretched his head anxiously back over the road . 
A man riding in hot haste was now dimly descried at the top of a distant hill . 
There he is , I do believe ! said Phineas . 
George and Jim both sprang out of the wagon before they knew what they were doing . 
All stood intensely silent , with their faces turned towards the expected messenger . 
And , just as he spoke , a breeze brought the faint sound of galloping horsemen towards them . 
In with you , quick , boys , in ! said Phineas . 
If you must fight , wait till I get you a piece ahead . 
And , with the word , both jumped in , and Phineas lashed the horses to a run , the horseman keeping close beside them . 
The wagon rattled , jumped , almost flew , over the frozen ground but plainer , and still plainer , came the noise of pursuing horsemen behind . 
Eliza sickened , and strained her child closer to her bosom the old woman prayed and groaned , and George and Jim clenched their pistols with the grasp of despair . 
This isolated pile , or range of rocks , rose up black and heavy against the brightening sky , and seemed to promise shelter and concealment . 
It was a place well known to Phineas , who had been familiar with the spot in his hunting days and it was to gain this point he had been racing his horses . 
Now for it ! said he , suddenly checking his horses , and springing from his seat to the ground . 
Out with you , in a twinkling , every one , and up into these rocks with me . 
Michael , thee tie thy horse to the wagon , and drive ahead to Amariah's and get him and his boys to come back and talk to these fellows . 
In a twinkling they were all out of the carriage . 
There , said Phineas , catching up Harry , you , each of you , see to the women and run , now if you ever did run ! They needed no exhortation . 
Come up ! Phineas went before , springing up the rocks like a goat , with the boy in his arms . 
Jim came second , bearing his trembling old mother over his shoulder , and George and Eliza brought up the rear . 
The party of horsemen came up to the fence , and , with mingled shouts and oaths , were dismounting , to prepare to follow them . 
Phineas easily leaped the chasm , and sat down the boy on a smooth , flat platform of crisp white moss , that covered the top of the rock . 
Over with you ! he called spring , now , once , for your lives ! said he , as one after another sprang across . 
Several fragments of loose stone formed a kind of breast work , which sheltered their position from the observation of those below . 
Well , here we all are , said Phineas , peeping over the stone breast work to watch the assailants , who were coming tumultuously up under the rocks . 
Let 'em get us , if they can . 
Thee's quite welcome to do the fighting , George , said Phineas , chewing some checkerberry leaves as he spoke but I may have the fun of looking on , I suppose . 
But see , these fellows are kinder debating down there , and looking up , like hens when they are going to fly up on to the roost . 
Well , Tom , yer coons are farly treed , said one . 
Yes , I see 'em go up right here , said Tom and here's a path . 
I'm for going right up . 
They can't jump down in a hurry , and it won't take long to ferret 'em out . 
But , Tom , they might fire at us from behind the rocks , said Marks . 
That would be ugly , you know . 
Ugh ! said Tom , with a sneer . 
Always for saving your skin , Marks ! No danger ! niggers are too plaguy scared ! I don't know why I shouldn't save my skin , said Marks . 
It's the best I've got and niggers do fight like the devil , sometimes . 
One George Harris , and Eliza Harris , and their son , and Jim Selden , and an old woman . 
We've got the officers , here , and a warrant to take 'em and we're going to have 'em , too . 
D'ye hear ? An't you George Harris , that belongs to Mr. Harris , of Shelby county , Kentucky ? I am George Harris . 
A Mr. Harris , of Kentucky , did call me his property . 
But now I'm a free man , standing on God's free soil and my wife and my child I claim as mine . 
Jim and his mother are here . 
We have arms to defend ourselves , and we mean to do it . 
O , come ! come ! said a short , puffy man , stepping forward , and blowing his nose as he did so . 
Young man , this an't no kind of talk at all for you . 
You see , we're officers of justice . 
I know very well that you've got the law on your side , and the power , said George , bitterly . 
When despairing Hungarian fugitives make their way , against all the search warrants and authorities of their lawful government , to America , press and political cabinet ring with applause and welcome . 
There is something in boldness and determination that for a time hushes even the rudest nature . 
Marks was the only one who remained wholly untouched . 
He was deliberately cocking his pistol , and , in the momentary silence that followed George's speech , he fired at him . 
Ye see ye get jist as much for him dead as alive in Kentucky , he said coolly , as he wiped his pistol on his coat sleeve . 
George sprang backward , Eliza uttered a shriek , the ball had passed close to his hair , had nearly grazed the cheek of his wife , and struck in the tree above . 
It's nothing , Eliza , said George , quickly . 
Thee'd better keep out of sight , with thy speechifying , said Phineas they're mean scamps . 
Now , Jim , said George , look that your pistols are all right , and watch that pass with me . 
The first man that shows himself I fire at you take the second , and so on . 
It won't do , you know , to waste two shots on one . 
But what if you don't hit ? I shall hit , said George , coolly . 
Good ! now , there's stuff in that fellow , muttered Phineas , between his teeth . 
The party below , after Marks had fired , stood , for a moment , rather undecided . 
I think you must have hit some on 'em , said one of the men . 
I heard a squeal ! I'm going right up for one , said Tom . 
I never was afraid of niggers , and I an't going to be now . 
Who goes after ? he said , springing up the rocks . 
George heard the words distinctly . 
He drew up his pistol , examined it , pointed it towards that point in the defile where the first man would appear . 
On they came , and in a moment the burly form of Tom appeared in sight , almost at the verge of the chasm . 
Friend , said Phineas , suddenly stepping to the front , and meeting him with a push from his long arms , thee isn't wanted here . 
Down he fell into the chasm , crackling down among trees , bushes , logs , loose stones , till he lay bruised and groaning thirty feet below . 
Cuss me if I much care whether he is dead or alive . 
The men , led by the groans of Tom , scrambled and crackled through stumps , logs and bushes , to where that hero lay groaning and swearing with alternate vehemence . 
Ye keep it agoing pretty loud , Tom , said one . 
Ye much hurt ? Don't know . 
With much labor and groaning , the fallen hero was assisted to rise and , with one holding him up under each shoulder , they got him as far as the horses . 
If you could only get me a mile back to that ar tavern . 
Give me a handkerchief or something , to stuff into this place , and stop this infernal bleeding . 
George looked over the rocks , and saw them trying to lift the burly form of Tom into the saddle . 
After two or three ineffectual attempts , he reeled , and fell heavily to the ground . 
O , I hope he isn't killed ! said Eliza , who , with all the party , stood watching the proceeding . 
Why not ? said Phineas serves him right . 
Because after death comes the judgment , said Eliza . 
Yes , said the old woman , who had been groaning and praying , in her Methodist fashion , during all the encounter , it's an awful case for the poor crittur's soul . 
On my word , they're leaving him , I do believe , said Phineas . 
It was true for after some appearance of irresolution and consultation , the whole party got on their horses and rode away . 
When they were quite out of sight , Phineas began to bestir himself . 
Well , we must go down and walk a piece , he said . 
The Lord grant he be along soon ! It's early in the day there won't be much travel afoot yet a while we an't much more than two miles from our stopping place . 
If the road hadn't been so rough last night , we could have outrun 'em entirely . 
As the party neared the fence , they discovered in the distance , along the road , their own wagon coming back , accompanied by some men on horseback . 
Well , now , there's Michael , and Stephen and Amariah , exclaimed Phineas , joyfully . 
Now we are made as safe as if we'd got there . 
Well , do stop , then , said Eliza , and do something for that poor man he's groaning dreadfully . 
It would be no more than Christian , said George let's take him up and carry him on . 
And doctor him up among the Quakers ! said Phineas pretty well , that ! Well , I don't care if we do . 
Marks , said Tom , feebly , is that you , Marks ? No I reckon 'tan't friend , said Phineas . 
Much Marks cares for thee , if his own skin's safe . 
He's off , long ago . 
I believe I'm done for , said Tom . 
The cussed sneaking dog , to leave me to die alone ! My poor old mother always told me 't would be so . 
La sakes ! jist hear the poor crittur . 
He's got a mammy , now , said the old negress . 
I can't help kinder pityin' on him . 
Softly , softly don't thee snap and snarl , friend , said Phineas , as Tom winced and pushed his hand away . 
Thee has no chance , unless I stop the bleeding . 
And Phineas busied himself with making some off hand surgical arrangements with his own pocket handkerchief , and such as could be mustered in the company . 
You pushed me down there , said Tom , faintly . 
Well if I hadn't thee would have pushed us down , thee sees , said Phineas , as he stooped to apply his bandage . 
There , there , let me fix this bandage . 
We mean well to thee we bear no malice . 
Thee shall be taken to a house where they'll nurse thee first rate , well as thy own mother could . 
Tom groaned , and shut his eyes . 
The other party now came up . 
The seats were taken out of the wagon . 
The buffalo skins , doubled in fours , were spread all along one side , and four men , with great difficulty , lifted the heavy form of Tom into it . 
Before he was gotten in , he fainted entirely . 
The old negress , in the abundance of her compassion , sat down on the bottom , and took his head in her lap . 
Eliza , George and Jim , bestowed themselves , as well as they could , in the remaining space and the whole party set forward . 
What do you think of him ? said George , who sat by Phineas in front . 
Well it's only a pretty deep flesh wound but , then , tumbling and scratching down that place didn't help him much . 
It has bled pretty freely , pretty much dreaned him out , courage and all , but he'll get over it , and may be learn a thing or two by it . 
I'm glad to hear you say so , said George . 
It would always be a heavy thought to me , if I'd caused his death , even in a just cause . 
Yes , said Phineas , killing is an ugly operation , any way they'll fix it , man or beast . 
So I don't know as our people's notions on these matters is too strict and , considerin' how I was raised , I fell in with them pretty considerably . 
What shall you do with this poor fellow ? said George . 
O , carry him along to Amariah's . 
There's old Grandmam Stephens there , Dorcas , they call her , she's most an amazin' nurse . 
She takes to nursing real natural , and an't never better suited than when she gets a sick body to tend . 
We may reckon on turning him over to her for a fortnight or so . 
A ride of about an hour more brought the party to a neat farmhouse , where the weary travellers were received to an abundant breakfast . 
Tom Loker was soon carefully deposited in a much cleaner and softer bed than he had , ever been in the habit of occupying . 
And here , for the present , we shall take our leave of one party . 
Clare was indolent and careless of money . 
No , no , Adolph , he said , one day , as Adolph was deprecating the passing of power out of his hands let Tom alone . 
You only understand what you want Tom understands cost and come to and there may be some end to money , bye and bye if we don't let somebody do that . 
But , to that nature , the very unbounded trust reposed in him was bond and seal for the most scrupulous accuracy . 
With Adolph the case had been different . 
His own good sense taught him that such a training of his servants was unjust and dangerous . 
A sort of chronic remorse went with him everywhere , although not strong enough to make any decided change in his course and this very remorse reacted again into indulgence . 
He passed lightly over the most serious faults , because he told himself that , if he had done his part , his dependents had not fallen into them . 
Tom regarded his gay , airy , handsome young master with an odd mixture of fealty , reverence , and fatherly solicitude . 
Well , Tom , what are you waiting for ? said St . 
Clare , the next day , as he sat in his library , in dressing gown and slippers . 
Clare had just been entrusting Tom with some money , and various commissions . 
Isn't all right there , Tom ? he added , as Tom still stood waiting . 
I'm 'fraid not , Mas'r , said Tom , with a grave face . 
Clare laid down his paper , and set down his coffee cup , and looked at Tom . 
Why Tom , what's the case ? You look as solemn as a coffin . 
I feel very bad , Mas'r . 
I allays have thought that Mas'r would be good to everybody . 
Well , Tom , haven't I been ? Come , now , what do you want ? There's something you haven't got , I suppose , and this is the preface . 
Mas'r allays been good to me . 
I haven't nothing to complain of on that head . 
But there is one that Mas'r isn't good to . 
Why , Tom , what's got into you ? Speak out what do you mean ? Last night , between one and two , I thought so . 
I studied upon the matter then . 
Mas'r isn't good to himself . 
Tom said this with his back to his master , and his hand on the door knob . 
Clare felt his face flush crimson , but he laughed . 
O , that's all , is it ? he said , gayly . 
All ! said Tom , turning suddenly round and falling on his knees . 
O , my dear young Mas'r I'm 'fraid it will be loss of all all body and soul . 
The good Book says , it biteth like a serpent and stingeth like an adder ! my dear Mas'r ! Tom's voice choked , and the tears ran down his cheeks . 
You poor , silly fool ! said St . 
Clare , with tears in his own eyes . 
I'm not worth crying over . 
But Tom wouldn't rise , and looked imploring . 
Well , I won't go to any more of their cursed nonsense , Tom , said St . 
Clare on my honor , I won't . 
I don't know why I haven't stopped long ago . 
I've always despised it , and myself for it , so now , Tom , wipe up your eyes , and go about your errands . 
Come , come , he added , no blessings . 
I'm not so wonderfully good , now , he said , as he gently pushed Tom to the door . 
There , I'll pledge my honor to you , Tom , you don't see me so again , he said and Tom went off , wiping his eyes , with great satisfaction . 
I'll keep my faith with him , too , said St . 
Clare , as he closed the door . 
Clare did so , for gross sensualism , in any form , was not the peculiar temptation of his nature . 
South as well as north , there are women who have an extraordinary talent for command , and tact in educating . 
Such a housekeeper was Mrs. Shelby , whom we have already described and such our readers may remember to have met with . 
If they are not common at the South , it is because they are not common in the world . 
They are to be found there as often as anywhere and , when existing , find in that peculiar state of society a brilliant opportunity to exhibit their domestic talent . 
Such a housekeeper Marie St . 
Clare was not , nor her mother before her . 
The store room , the linen presses , the china closet , the kitchen and cellar , that day , all went under an awful review . 
Old Dinah , the head cook , and principal of all rule and authority in the kitchen department , was filled with wrath at what she considered an invasion of privilege . 
No feudal baron in Magna Charta times could have more thoroughly resented some incursion of the crown . 
Dinah was a character in her own way , and it would be injustice to her memory not to give the reader a little idea of her . 
Like a certain class of modern philosophers , Dinah perfectly scorned logic and reason in every shape , and always took refuge in intuitive certainty and here she was perfectly impregnable . 
This was the easier , in that she was perfect mistress of that diplomatic art which unites the utmost subservience of manner with the utmost inflexibility as to measure . 
Dinah was mistress of the whole art and mystery of excuse making , in all its branches . 
But it was very seldom that there was any failure in Dinah's last results . 
It was now the season of incipient preparation for dinner . 
It was Dinah's mode of invoking the domestic Muses . 
It was the spirit of the system under which she had grown up , and she carried it out to its full extent . 
Miss Ophelia , after passing on her reformatory tour through all the other parts of the establishment , now entered the kitchen . 
The kitchen was a large brick floored apartment , with a great old fashioned fireplace stretching along one side of it , an arrangement which St . 
Clare had vainly tried to persuade Dinah to exchange for the convenience of a modern cook stove . 
No Puseyite , or conservative of any school , was ever more inflexibly attached to time honored inconveniences than Dinah . 
, champion of the orthodoxy of revealed religion , defender of the Oxford movement , and Regius professor of Hebrew and Canon of Christ Church , Oxford . 
He might as well have provided them for a squirrel or a magpie . 
Miss Ophelia commenced opening a set of drawers . 
What is this drawer for , Dinah ? she said . 
It's handy for most anything , Missis , said Dinah . 
So it appeared to be . 
From the variety it contained , Miss Ophelia pulled out first a fine damask table cloth stained with blood , having evidently been used to envelop some raw meat . 
I laid out to wash that a , that's why I put it thar . 
Where do you keep your nutmegs , Dinah ? said Miss Ophelia , with the air of one who prayed for patience . 
Most anywhar , Missis there's some in that cracked tea cup , up there , and there's some over in that ar cupboard . 
Here are some in the grater , said Miss Ophelia , holding them up . 
Laws , yes , I put 'em there this morning , I likes to keep my things handy , said Dinah . 
You , Jake ! what are you stopping for ! You'll cotch it ! Be still , thar ! she added , with a dive of her stick at the criminal . 
What's this ? said Miss Ophelia , holding up the saucer of pomade . 
Laws , it's my har grease I put it thar to have it handy . 
Do you use your mistress' best saucers for that ? Law ! it was cause I was driv , and in sich a hurry I was gwine to change it this very day . 
Here are two damask table napkins . 
Them table napkins I put thar , to get 'em washed out , some day . 
Don't you have some place here on purpose for things to be washed ? Well , Mas'r St . 
Well , here are these onions . 
Laws , yes ! said Dinah thar is whar I put 'em , now . 
Them 's particular onions I was a savin' for dis yer very stew . 
I'd forgot they was in dat ar old flannel . 
Miss Ophelia lifted out the sifting papers of sweet herbs . 
I wish Missis wouldn't touch dem ar . 
I likes to keep my things where I knows whar to go to 'em , said Dinah , rather decidedly . 
But you don't want these holes in the papers . 
Them 's handy for siftin' on 't out , said Dinah . 
But you see it spills all over the drawer . 
Laws , yes ! if Missis will go a tumblin' things all up so , it will . 
Missis has spilt lots dat ar way , said Dinah , coming uneasily to the drawers . 
If Missis only will go up stars till my clarin' up time comes , I'll have everything right but I can't do nothin' when ladies is round , a henderin' . 
Lor , now ! Miss Phelia dat ar an't no way for ladies to do . 
Lor now ! if dat ar de way dem northern ladies do , dey an't ladies , nohow , she said to some of her satellites , when at a safe hearing distance . 
In despair , she one day appealed to St . 
There is no such thing as getting anything like a system in this family ! To be sure , there isn't , said St . 
Such shiftless management , such waste , such confusion , I never saw ! I dare say you didn't . 
You would not take it so coolly , if you were housekeeper . 
My dear cousin , you may as well understand , once for all , that we masters are divided into two classes , oppressors and oppressed . 
We who are good natured and hate severity make up our minds to a good deal of inconvenience . 
If we will keep a shambling , loose , untaught set in the community , for our convenience , why , we must take the consequence . 
I will not have the poor devils thrashed and cut to pieces , and they know it , and , of course , they know the staff is in their own hands . 
I think it really sublime , the way she manages . 
You'll only lose your own temper , and utterly confound Dinah . 
Let her go her own way . 
But , Augustine , you don't know how I found things . 
But the waste , the expense ! O , well ! Lock everything you can , and keep the key . 
Give out by driblets , and never inquire for odds and ends , it isn't best . 
That troubles me , Augustine . 
I can't help feeling as if these servants were not strictly honest . 
Are you sure they can be relied on ? Augustine laughed immoderately at the grave and anxious face with which Miss Ophelia propounded the question . 
O , cousin , that's too good , honest ! as if that's a thing to be expected ! Honest ! why , of course , they arn't . 
Are there no honest ones ? Well , now and then one , whom Nature makes so impracticably simple , truthful and faithful , that the worst possible influence can't destroy it . 
But , you see , from the mother's breast the colored child feels and sees that there are none but underhand ways open to it . 
It can get along no other way with its parents , its mistress , its young master and missie play fellows . 
Cunning and deception become necessary , inevitable habits . 
It isn't fair to expect anything else of him . 
He ought not to be punished for it . 
For my part , I don't see how they can be honest . 
Such a fellow as Tom , here , is , is a moral miracle ! And what becomes of their souls ? said Miss Ophelia . 
That isn't my affair , as I know of , said St . 
Clare I am only dealing in facts of the present life . 
We are in pretty good company , for all that , said St . 
Clare , as people in the broad road generally are . 
It isn't so in Vermont . 
Ah , well , in New England , and in the free States , you have the better of us , I grant . 
But there's the bell so , Cousin , let us for a while lay aside our sectional prejudices , and come out to dinner . 
A tall , bony colored woman now entered the kitchen , bearing on her head a basket of rusks and hot rolls . 
Ho , Prue ! you've come , said Dinah . 
Prue had a peculiar scowling expression of countenance , and a sullen , grumbling voice . 
I'd be out o' my misery , said the woman , gruffly , without taking her eyes from the floor . 
What need you getting drunk , then , and cutting up , Prue ? said a spruce quadroon chambermaid , dangling , as she spoke , a pair of coral ear drops . 
The woman looked at her with a sour surly glance . 
Maybe you'll come to it , one of these yer days . 
I'd be glad to see you , I would then you'll be glad of a drop , like me , to forget your misery . 
Come , Prue , said Dinah , let's look at your rusks . 
Here's Missis will pay for them . 
Miss Ophelia took out a couple of dozen . 
Thar's some tickets in that ar old cracked jug on the top shelf , said Dinah . 
You , Jake , climb up and get it down . 
Tickets , what are they for ? said Miss Ophelia . 
We buy tickets of her Mas'r , and she gives us bread for 'em . 
And they counts my money and tickets , when I gets home , to see if I 's got the change and if I han't , they half kills me . 
And serves you right , said Jane , the pert chambermaid , if you will take their money to get drunk on . 
That's what she does , Missis . 
And that's what I will do , I can't live no other ways , drink and forget my misery . 
You are very wicked and very foolish , said Miss Ophelia , to steal your master's money to make yourself a brute with . 
It's mighty likely , Missis but I will do it , yes , I will . 
Ye think ye're mighty fine with them ar , a frolickin' and a tossin' your head , and a lookin' down on everybody . 
Well , never mind , you may live to be a poor , old , cut up crittur , like me . 
Disgusting old beast ! said Adolph , who was getting his master's shaving water . 
If I was her master , I'd cut her up worse than she is . 
Ye couldn't do that ar , no ways , said Dinah . 
Her back's a far sight now , she can't never get a dress together over it . 
I think such low creatures ought not to be allowed to go round to genteel families , said Miss Jane . 
What do you think , Mr. St . 
Clare ? she said , coquettishly tossing her head at Adolph . 
I'm certainly of your opinion , Miss Benoir , said Adolph . 
Benoir was the name of Marie St . 
Clare's family , and Jane was one of her servants . 
Clare , what the impudence of you men will come to ! said Jane , tossing her pretty head til the ear drops twinkled again . 
I shan't dance with you for a whole evening , if you go to asking me any more questions . 
O , you couldn't be so cruel , now ! I was just dying to know whether you would appear in your pink tarletane , said Adolph . 
What is it ? said Rosa , a bright , piquant little quadroon who came skipping down stairs at this moment . 
Clare's so impudent ! On my honor , said Adolph , I'll leave it to Miss Rosa now . 
I know he's always a saucy creature , said Rosa , poising herself on one of her little feet , and looking maliciously at Adolph . 
He's always getting me so angry with him . 
O ! ladies , ladies , you will certainly break my heart , between you , said Adolph . 
I shall be found dead in my bed , some morning , and you'll have it to answer for . 
Do hear the horrid creature talk ! said both ladies , laughing immoderately . 
Come , clar out , you ! I can't have you cluttering up the kitchen , said Dinah in my way , foolin' round here . 
Aunt Dinah's glum , because she can't go to the ball , said Rosa . 
Don't want none o' your light colored balls , said Dinah cuttin' round , makin' b'lieve you's white folks . 
Arter all , you's niggers , much as I am . 
Aunt Dinah greases her wool stiff , every day , to make it lie straight , said Jane . 
And it will be wool , after all , said Rosa , maliciously shaking down her long , silky curls . 
Well , in the Lord's sight , an't wool as good as bar , any time ? said Dinah . 
I'd like to have Missis say which is worth the most , a couple such as you , or one like me . 
Get out wid ye , ye trumpery , I won't have ye round ! Here the conversation was interrupted in a two fold manner . 
Our friend Tom , who had been in the kitchen during the conversation with the old rusk woman , had followed her out into the street . 
He saw her go on , giving every once in a while a suppressed groan . 
At last she set her basket down on a doorstep , and began arranging the old , faded shawl which covered her shoulders . 
I'll carry your basket a piece , said Tom , compassionately . 
Why should ye ? said the woman . 
I don't want no help . 
You seem to be sick , or in trouble , or somethin' , said Tom . 
I an't sick , said the woman , shortly . 
I wish , said Tom , looking at her earnestly , I wish I could persuade you to leave off drinking . 
Don't you know it will be the ruin of ye , body and soul ? I knows I'm gwine to torment , said the woman , sullenly . 
Ye don't need to tell me that ar . 
I 's ugly , I 's wicked , I 's gwine straight to torment . 
O , Lord ! I wish I 's thar ! Tom shuddered at these frightful words , spoken with a sullen , impassioned earnestness . 
O , Lord have mercy on ye ! poor crittur . 
Han't ye never heard of Jesus Christ ? Jesus Christ , who's he ? Why , he's the Lord , said Tom . 
I think I've hearn tell o' the Lord , and the judgment and torment . 
Where was you raised ? said Tom . 
What set you into this bad way of drinkin' ? To get shet o' my misery . 
I had one child after I come here and I thought then I'd have one to raise , cause Mas'r wasn't a speculator . 
It was de peartest little thing ! and Missis she seemed to think a heap on 't , at first it never cried , it was likely and fat . 
She wouldn't hear to me , when I telled her I hadn't milk . 
She made me sleep in her room and I had to put it away off in a little kind o' garret , and thar it cried itself to death , one night . 
I had so , she said , as with her usual groan , she got her basket on her head , and walked sullenly away . 
Tom turned , and walked sorrowfully back to the house . 
In the court he met little Eva , a crown of tuberoses on her head , and her eyes radiant with delight . 
O , Tom ! here you are . 
I'm glad I've found you . 
Papa says you may get out the ponies , and take me in my little new carriage , she said , catching his hand . 
But what's the matter Tom ? you look sober . 
I feel bad , Miss Eva , said Tom , sorrowfully . 
But I'll get the horses for you . 
But do tell me , Tom , what is the matter . 
I saw you talking to cross old Prue . 
Tom , in simple , earnest phrase , told Eva the woman's history . 
She did not exclaim or wonder , or weep , as other children do . 
Her cheeks grew pale , and a deep , earnest shadow passed over her eyes . 
She laid both hands on her bosom , and sighed heavily . 
CHAPTER XIX Miss Ophelia's Experiences and Opinions Continued Tom , you needn't get me the horses . 
I don't want to go , she said . 
Why not , Miss Eva ? These things sink into my heart , Tom , said Eva , they sink into my heart , she repeated , earnestly . 
I don't want to go and she turned from Tom , and went into the house . 
A few days after , another woman came , in old Prue's place , to bring the rusks Miss Ophelia was in the kitchen . 
Lor ! said Dinah , what's got Prue ? Prue isn't coming any more , said the woman , mysteriously . 
Why not ? said Dinah . 
she an't dead , is she ? We doesn't exactly know . 
She's down cellar , said the woman , glancing at Miss Ophelia . 
After Miss Ophelia had taken the rusks , Dinah followed the woman to the door . 
What has got Prue , any how ? she said . 
The woman seemed desirous , yet reluctant , to speak , and answered , in low , mysterious tone . 
Lor bless us ! Miss Eva's gwine to faint away ! What go us all , to let her har such talk ? Her pa'll be rail mad . 
Miss Ophelia anxiously inquired the woman's story . 
Dinah gave a very garrulous version of it , to which Tom added the particulars which he had drawn from her that morning . 
An abominable business , perfectly horrible ! she exclaimed , as she entered the room where St . 
Clare lay reading his paper . 
Pray , what iniquity has turned up now ? said he . 
I thought it would come to that , some time , said St . 
Clare , going on with his paper . 
Thought so ! an't you going to do anything about it ? said Miss Ophelia . 
Haven't you got any selectmen , or anybody , to interfere and look after such matters ? It's commonly supposed that the property interest is a sufficient guard in these cases . 
If people choose to ruin their own possessions , I don't know what's to be done . 
It seems the poor creature was a thief and a drunkard and so there won't be much hope to get up sympathy for her . 
It is perfectly outrageous , it is horrid , Augustine ! It will certainly bring down vengeance upon you . 
My dear cousin , I didn't do it , and I can't help it I would , if I could . 
If low minded , brutal people will act like themselves , what am I to do ? they have absolute control they are irresponsible despots . 
There would be no use in interfering there is no law that amounts to anything practically , for such a case . 
The best we can do is to shut our eyes and ears , and let it alone . 
It's the only resource left us . 
I can't turn knight errant , and undertake to redress every individual case of wrong in such a city as this . 
The most I can do is to try and keep out of the way of it . 
If we are to be prying and spying into all the dismals of life , we should have no heart to anything . 
'T is like looking too close into the details of Dinah's kitchen and St . 
Clare lay back on the sofa , and busied himself with his paper . 
Miss Ophelia sat down , and pulled out her knitting work , and sat there grim with indignation . 
She knit and knit , but while she mused the fire burned at last she broke out I tell you , Augustine , I can't get over things so , if you can . 
It's a perfect abomination for you to defend such a system , that's my mind ! What now ? said St . 
At it again , hey ? I say it's perfectly abominable for you to defend such a system ! said Miss Ophelia , with increasing warmth . 
I defend it , my dear lady ? Who ever said I did defend it ? said St . 
Of course , you defend it , you all do , all you Southerners . 
So do I , said St . 
Clare , peeling his orange I'm repenting of it all the time . 
Well , I'm very much tempted , said St . 
Clare that's just my difficulty . 
But I always resolve I won't and I try to break off . 
Well , I have been resolving I won't , off and on , these ten years , said St . 
Clare but I haven't , some how , got clear . 
It seems to me I would cut off my right hand sooner than keep on , from day to day , doing what I thought was wrong . 
But , then , my conduct is so inconsistent with my profession , I don't wonder you reprove me . 
I love to poke you up , that's all , just to see you get earnest . 
I do think you are desperately , distressingly good it tires me to death to think of it . 
But this is a serious subject , my boy , Auguste , said Miss Ophelia , laying her hand on his forehead . 
Dismally so , said he and I well , I never want to talk seriously in hot weather . 
What with mosquitos and all , a fellow can't get himself up to any very sublime moral flights and I believe , said St . 
Clare , suddenly rousing himself up , there's a theory , now ! I understand now why northern nations are always more virtuous than southern ones , I see into that whole subject . 
Wait , I'm coming on , you'll hear . 
It comes from the devil , that's the short of it and , to my mind , it's a pretty respectable specimen of what he can do in his own line . 
Miss Ophelia stopped her knitting , and looked surprised , and St . 
Clare , apparently enjoying her astonishment , went on . 
You seem to wonder but if you will get me fairly at it , I'll make a clean breast of it . 
Whatever is too hard , too dirty , too disagreeable , for me , I may set Quashy to doing . 
Because I don't like work , Quashy shall work . 
Because the sun burns me , Quashy shall stay in the sun . 
Quashy shall earn the money , and I will spend it . 
Quashy shall lie down in every puddle , that I may walk over dry shod . 
This I take to be about what slavery is . 
I defy anybody on earth to read our slave code , as it stands in our law books , and make anything else of it . 
And he who goes the furthest , and does the worst , only uses within limits the power that the law gives him . 
Clare had started up , and , as his manner was when excited , was walking , with hurried steps , up and down the floor . 
His fine face , classic as that of a Greek statue , seemed actually to burn with the fervor of his feelings . 
His large blue eyes flashed , and he gestured with an unconscious eagerness . 
Miss Ophelia had never seen him in this mood before , and she sat perfectly silent . 
I never , in my life , heard anything like this , even at the North . 
At the North ! said St . 
Clare , with a sudden change of expression , and resuming something of his habitual careless tone . 
Pooh ! your northern folks are cold blooded you are cool in everything ! You can't begin to curse up hill and down as we can , when we get fairly at it . 
Well , but the question is , said Miss Ophelia . 
I came so by ordinary generation . 
My mother , said St . 
Why , cousin , that mother has been all that has stood between me and utter unbelief for years . 
O , mother ! mother ! said St . 
He had black , fiery eyes , coal black hair , a strong , fine Roman profile , and a rich brown complexion . 
I had blue eyes , golden hair , a Greek outline , and fair complexion . 
He was active and observing , I dreamy and inactive . 
He was generous to his friends and equals , but proud , dominant , overbearing , to inferiors , and utterly unmerciful to whatever set itself up against him . 
Truthful we both were he from pride and courage , I from a sort of abstract ideality . 
We loved each other about as boys generally do , off and on , and in general he was my father's pet , and I my mother's . 
But mother did and so , when I had quarreled with Alfred , and father looked sternly on me , I used to go off to mother's room , and sit by her . 
My father was a born aristocrat . 
My brother was begotten in his image . 
Now , an aristocrat , you know , the world over , has no human sympathies , beyond a certain line in society . 
In England the line is in one place , in Burmah in another , and in America in another but the aristocrat of all these countries never goes over it . 
What would be hardship and distress and injustice in his own class , is a cool matter of course in another one . 
My father's dividing line was that of color . 
But my father was not a man much troubled with spiritualism religious sentiment he had none , beyond a veneration for God , as decidedly the head of the upper classes . 
, who had gone through a regular apprenticeship in hardness and brutality and taken his degree to be admitted to practice . 
My mother never could endure him , nor I but he obtained an entire ascendency over my father and this man was the absolute despot of the estate . 
We hindered and repressed a great deal of cruelty , and congratulated ourselves on doing a vast deal of good , till , as often happens , my zeal overacted . 
Stubbs complained to my father that he couldn't manage the hands , and must resign his position . 
I used sometimes to hear my mother reasoning cases with him , endeavoring to excite his sympathies . 
He would listen to the most pathetic appeals with the most discouraging politeness and equanimity . 
We can't have perfection and if I keep him , I must sustain his administration as a whole , even if there are , now and then , things that are exceptionable . 
All government includes some necessary hardness . 
General rules will bear hard on particular cases . 
This last maxim my father seemed to consider a settler in most alleged cases of cruelty . 
The fact is my father showed the exact sort of talent for a statesman . 
He could have divided Poland as easily as an orange , or trod on Ireland as quietly and systematically as any man living . 
At last my mother gave up , in despair . 
It has been an age of long sorrow of such natures , in such a hell begotten sort of world as ours . 
As to me , they sunk deep into me . 
They were very fine , and used to impress me strongly . 
If I had lived to grow up under her care , she might have stimulated me to I know not what of enthusiasm . 
Clare rested his head on his hands , and did not speak for some minutes . 
Yet he is , for all the world , in constitution and habit , a duplicate of my father . 
I can see it leaking out in fifty different ways , just the same strong , overbearing , dominant spirit . 
You know very well how impossible it is to persuade some of the folks in your village that Squire Sinclair does not feel above them . 
Miss Ophelia felt rather disposed to cavil at this picture , and was laying down her knitting to begin , but St . 
Now , I know every word you are going to say . 
I do not say they were alike , in fact . 
If both had owned plantations in Louisiana , they would have been as like as two old bullets cast in the same mould . 
What an undutiful boy you are ! said Miss Ophelia . 
I don't mean them any disrespect , said St . 
You know reverence is not my forte . 
But , to go back to my history When father died , he left the whole property to us twin boys , to be divided as we should agree . 
We undertook to work the plantation together and Alfred , whose outward life and capabilities had double the strength of mine , became an enthusiastic planter , and a wonderfully successful one . 
But two years' trial satisfied me that I could not be a partner in that matter . 
Humbug ! We are not quite reduced to that yet . 
He defends both , and I think , at least , consistently . 
He says that there can be no high civilization without enslavement of the masses , either nominal or real . 
So he reasons , because , as I said , he is born an aristocrat so I don't believe , because I was born a democrat . 
How in the world can the two things be compared ? said Miss Ophelia . 
The English laborer is not sold , traded , parted from his family , whipped . 
He is as much at the will of his employer as if he were sold to him . 
The slave owner can whip his refractory slave to death , the capitalist can starve him to death . 
As to family security , it is hard to say which is the worst , to have one's children sold , or see them starve to death at home . 
But it's no kind of apology for slavery , to prove that it isn't worse than some other bad thing . 
I never thought of the matter in this light , said Miss Ophelia . 
You see , you must not infer , from what I have told you , that Alfred is what is called a hard master for he isn't . 
He is despotic , and unmerciful to insubordination he would shoot a fellow down with as little remorse as he would shoot a buck , if he opposed him . 
But , in general , he takes a sort of pride in having his slaves comfortably fed and accommodated . 
The teachers of Sunday schools among the manufacturing population of England , and among plantation hands in our country , could perhaps testify to the same result , there and here . 
Yet some striking exceptions there are among us , from the fact that the negro is naturally more impressible to religious sentiment than the white . 
He thought it absurd , after he had reformed , and altered , and improved everywhere , to suit my notions , that I still remained unsatisfied . 
Well , of course , there was an end of plantation discipline and Alf and I came to about the same point that I and my respected father did , years before . 
So we parted , and I came here . 
But why didn't you free your slaves ? Well , I wasn't up to that . 
To hold them as tools for money making , I could not have them to help spend money , you know , didn't look quite so ugly to me . 
Some of them were old house servants , to whom I was much attached and the younger ones were children to the old . 
All were well satisfied to be as they were . 
He paused , and walked reflectively up and down the room . 
There was , said St . 
Clare , a time in my life when I had plans and hopes of doing something in this world , more than to float and drift . 
I had vague , indistinct yearnings to be a sort of emancipator , to free my native land from this spot and stain . 
O , well , things didn't go with me as I expected , and I got the despair of living that Solomon did . 
I don't think my feelings about slavery are peculiar . 
I find many men who , in their hearts , think of it just as I do . 
The land groans under it and , bad as it is for the slave , it is worse , if anything , for the master . 
It takes no spectacles to see that a great class of vicious , improvident , degraded people , among us , are an evil to us , as well as to themselves . 
The capitalist and aristocrat of England cannot feel that as we do , because they do not mingle with the class they degrade as we do . 
If Eva , now , was not more angel than ordinary , she would be ruined . 
If we did not give them liberty , they would take it . 
And what do you think will be the end of this ? said Miss Ophelia . 
One thing is certain , that there is a mustering among the masses , the world over and there is a dies irae coming on , sooner or later . 
The same thing is working in Europe , in England , and in this country . 
My mother used to tell me of a millennium that was coming , when Christ should reign , and all men should be free and happy . 
And she taught me , when I was a boy , to pray , thy kingdom come . 
Sometimes I think all this sighing , and groaning , and stirring among the dry bones foretells what she used to tell me was coming . 
Thank you for your good opinion , but it's up and down with me , up to heaven's gate in theory , down in earth's dust in practice . 
But there's the teabell , do let's go , and don't say , now , I haven't had one downright serious talk , for once in my life . 
At table , Marie alluded to the incident of Prue . 
I suppose you'll think , cousin , she said , that we are all barbarians . 
I think that's a barbarous thing , said Miss Ophelia , but I don't think you are all barbarians . 
Well , now , said Marie , I know it's impossible to get along with some of these creatures . 
They are so bad they ought not to live . 
I don't feel a particle of sympathy for such cases . 
If they'd only behave themselves , it would not happen . 
But , mamma , said Eva , the poor creature was unhappy that's what made her drink . 
O , fiddlestick ! as if that were any excuse ! I'm unhappy , very often . 
I presume , she said , pensively , that I've had greater trials than ever she had . 
It's just because they are so bad . 
There's some of them that you cannot break in by any kind of severity . 
There was no sort of reason for it , for father's hands were always treated kindly . 
I broke a fellow in , once , said St . 
Clare , that all the overseers and masters had tried their hands on in vain . 
You ! said Marie well , I'd be glad to know when you ever did anything of the sort . 
Well , he was a powerful , gigantic fellow , a native born African and he appeared to have the rude instinct of freedom in him to an uncommon degree . 
He was a regular African lion . 
Nobody could do anything with him and he was sold round from overseer to overseer , till at last Alfred bought him , because he thought he could manage him . 
Well , one day he knocked down the overseer , and was fairly off into the swamps . 
I was on a visit to Alf's plantation , for it was after we had dissolved partnership . 
So they mustered out a party of some six or seven , with guns and dogs , for the hunt . 
Well , the dogs bayed and howled , and we rode and scampered , and finally we started him . 
The poor fellow looked up at me with manhood and despair both in his eye . 
I kept back the dogs and the party , as they came pressing up , and claimed him as my prisoner . 
It was all I could do to keep them from shooting him , in the flush of success but I persisted in my bargain , and Alfred sold him to me . 
Well , I took him in hand , and in one fortnight I had him tamed down as submissive and tractable as heart could desire . 
What in the world did you do to him ? said Marie . 
Well , it was quite a simple process . 
I took him to my own room , had a good bed made for him , dressed his wounds , and tended him myself , until he got fairly on his feet again . 
And , in process of time , I had free papers made out for him , and told him he might go where he liked . 
And did he go ? said Miss Ophelia . 
No. The foolish fellow tore the paper in two , and absolutely refused to leave me . 
I never had a braver , better fellow , trusty and true as steel . 
He embraced Christianity afterwards , and became as gentle as a child . 
He used to oversee my place on the lake , and did it capitally , too . 
I lost him the first cholera season . 
In fact , he laid down his life for me . 
But , poor fellow ! he was taken , right after , and there was no saving him . 
I never felt anybody's loss more . 
Eva had come gradually nearer and nearer to her father , as he told the story , her small lips apart , her eyes wide and earnest with absorbing interest . 
As he finished , she suddenly threw her arms around his neck , burst into tears , and sobbed convulsively . 
Eva , dear child ! what is the matter ? said St . 
Clare , as the child's small frame trembled and shook with the violence of her feelings . 
This child , he added , ought not to hear any of this kind of thing , she's nervous . 
No , papa , I'm not nervous , said Eva , controlling herself , suddenly , with a strength of resolution singular in such a child . 
I'm not nervous , but these things sink into my heart . 
What do you mean , Eva ? I can't tell you , papa , I think a great many thoughts . 
Perhaps some day I shall tell you . 
Well , think away , dear , only don't cry and worry your papa , said St . 
Clare , Look here , see what a beautiful peach I have got for you . 
Eva took it and smiled , though there was still a nervous twiching about the corners of her mouth . 
Come , look at the gold fish , said St . 
Clare , taking her hand and stepping on to the verandah . 
A few moments , and merry laughs were heard through the silken curtains , as Eva and St . 
Clare were pelting each other with roses , and chasing each other among the alleys of the court . 
I wish I could help you , Tom ! I've learnt to write some . 
Last year I could make all the letters , but I'm afraid I've forgotten . 
Yes , Uncle Tom , it really begins to look beautiful , said Eva , gazing delightedly on it . 
Missis said that she would send down money for me , as soon as they could get it together , said Tom . 
I'm 'spectin , she will . 
Young Mas'r George , he said he'd come for me and he gave me this yer dollar as a sign and Tom drew from under his clothes the precious dollar . 
O , he'll certainly come , then ! said Eva . 
Clare's voice , coming in the door at this moment . 
Tom and Eva both started . 
What's here ? said St . 
Clare , coming up and looking at the slate . 
O , it's Tom's letter . 
I'm helping him to write it , said Eva isn't it nice ? I wouldn't discourage either of you , said St . 
Clare , but I rather think , Tom , you'd better get me to write your letter for you . 
I'll do it , when I come home from my ride . 
But he did not make any audible comment upon it , only ordered Tom to get the horses out for a ride . 
Tom's letter was written in due form for him that evening , and safely lodged in the post office . 
Miss Ophelia still persevered in her labors in the housekeeping line . 
Even Marie declared that it was absolutely fatiguing to see Cousin Ophelia always so busy . 
And , in fact , Miss Ophelia's industry was so incessant as to lay some foundation for the complaint . 
It really was a labor to see her . 
CHAPTER XX Topsy One morning , while Miss Ophelia was busy in some of her domestic cares , St . 
Clare's voice was heard , calling her at the foot of the stairs . 
Come down here , Cousin , I've something to show you . 
What is it ? said Miss Ophelia , coming down , with her sewing in her hand . 
I've made a purchase for your department , see here , said St . 
Clare and , with the word , he pulled along a little negro girl , about eight or nine years of age . 
She was one of the blackest of her race and her round shining eyes , glittering as glass beads , moved with quick and restless glances over everything in the room . 
Her mouth , half open with astonishment at the wonders of the new Mas'r's parlor , displayed a white and brilliant set of teeth . 
Her woolly hair was braided in sundry little tails , which stuck out in every direction . 
She was dressed in a single filthy , ragged garment , made of bagging and stood with her hands demurely folded before her . 
I thought she was rather a funny specimen in the Jim Crow line . 
Miss Ophelia stood silent , perfectly paralyzed with amazement . 
Clare , like a mischievous fellow as he was , appeared to enjoy her astonishment and , addressing the child again , said , Topsy , this is your new mistress . 
I'm going to give you up to her see now that you behave yourself . 
Yes , Mas'r , said Topsy , with sanctimonious gravity , her wicked eyes twinkling as she spoke . 
You're going to be good , Topsy , you understand , said St . 
O yes , Mas'r , said Topsy , with another twinkle , her hands still devoutly folded . 
Now , Augustine , what upon earth is this for ? said Miss Ophelia . 
Your house is so full of these little plagues , now , that a body can't set down their foot without treading on 'em . 
I thought I would make you a present of a fresh caught specimen , and let you try your hand on her , and bring her up in the way she should go . 
I don't want her , I am sure I have more to do with 'em now than I want to . 
That's you Christians , all over ! you'll get up a society , and get some poor missionary to spend all his days among just such heathen . 
Augustine , you know I didn't think of it in that light , said Miss Ophelia , evidently softening . 
Well , it might be a real missionary work , said she , looking rather more favorably on the child . 
Clare had touched the right string . 
Miss Ophelia's conscientiousness was ever on the alert . 
But , she added , I really didn't see the need of buying this one there are enough now , in your house , to take all my time and skill . 
Well , then , Cousin , said St . 
Clare , drawing her aside , I ought to beg your pardon for my good for nothing speeches . 
You are so good , after all , that there's no sense in them . 
She looked bright and funny , too , as if something might be made of her so I bought her , and I'll give her to you . 
Try , now , and give her a good orthodox New England bringing up , and see what it'll make of her . 
You know I haven't any gift that way but I'd like you to try . 
She's dreadfully dirty , and half naked , she said . 
Well , take her down stairs , and make some of them clean and clothe her up . 
Miss Ophelia carried her to the kitchen regions . 
Don't see what Mas'r St . 
Clare wants of 'nother nigger ! said Dinah , surveying the new arrival with no friendly air . 
You seem to tink yourself white folks . 
You an't nerry one , black nor white , I'd like to be one or turrer . 
It is not for ears polite to hear the particulars of the first toilet of a neglected , abused child . 
See there ! said Jane , pointing to the marks , don't that show she's a limb ? We'll have fine works with her , I reckon . 
Sitting down before her , she began to question her . 
How old are you , Topsy ? Dun no , Missis , said the image , with a grin that showed all her teeth . 
Don't know how old you are ? Didn't anybody ever tell you ? Who was your mother ? Never had none ! said the child , with another grin . 
Tell me where you were born , and who your father and mother were . 
Never was born , reiterated the creature , more emphatically never had no father nor mother , nor nothin' . 
I was raised by a speculator , with lots of others . 
Old Aunt Sue used to take car on us . 
The child was evidently sincere , and Jane , breaking into a short laugh , said , Laws , Missis , there's heaps of 'em . 
Speculators buys 'em up cheap , when they's little , and gets 'em raised for market . 
How long have you lived with your master and mistress ? Dun no , Missis . 
Is it a year , or more , or less ? Dun no , Missis . 
Laws , Missis , those low negroes , they can't tell they don't know anything about time , said Jane they don't know what a year is they don't know their own ages . 
Have you ever heard anything about God , Topsy ? The child looked bewildered , but grinned as usual . 
Do you know who made you ? Nobody , as I knows on , said the child , with a short laugh . 
The idea appeared to amuse her considerably for her eyes twinkled , and she added , I spect I grow'd . 
Don't think nobody never made me . 
Do you know how to sew ? said Miss Ophelia , who thought she would turn her inquiries to something more tangible . 
What can you do ? what did you do for your master and mistress ? Fetch water , and wash dishes , and rub knives , and wait on folks . 
Were they good to you ? Spect they was , said the child , scanning Miss Ophelia cunningly . 
Miss Ophelia rose from this encouraging colloquy St . 
Clare was leaning over the back of her chair . 
You find virgin soil there , Cousin put in your own ideas , you won't find many to pull up . 
At all events , Miss Ophelia knew of nothing else to do and , therefore , applied her mind to her heathen with the best diligence she could command . 
Miss Ophelia began with Topsy by taking her into her chamber , the first morning , and solemnly commencing a course of instruction in the art and mystery of bed making . 
Now , Topsy , I'm going to show you just how my bed is to be made . 
I am very particular about my bed . 
You must learn exactly how to do it . 
Yes , ma'am , says Topsy , with a deep sigh , and a face of woful earnestness . 
Now , Topsy , let's see you do this , said Miss Ophelia , pulling off the clothes , and seating herself . 
By an unlucky slip , however , a fluttering fragment of the ribbon hung out of one of her sleeves , just as she was finishing , and caught Miss Ophelia's attention . 
Instantly , she pounced upon it . 
Topsy , I shall have to whip you , if you tell lies so . 
Laws , Missis , if you's to whip all day , couldn't say no other way , said Topsy , beginning to blubber . 
I never seed dat ar , it must a got caught in my sleeve . 
Miss Feeley must have left it on the bed , and it got caught in the clothes , and so got in my sleeve . 
Miss Ophelia was so indignant at the barefaced lie , that she caught the child and shook her . 
Don't you tell me that again ! The shake brought the glove on to the floor , from the other sleeve . 
Now , Topsy , said Miss Ophelia , if you'll confess all about it , I won't whip you this time . 
Thus adjured , Topsy confessed to the ribbon and gloves , with woful protestations of penitence . 
Well , now , tell me . 
I know you must have taken other things since you have been in the house , for I let you run about all day yesterday . 
Now , tell me if you took anything , and I shan't whip you . 
Laws , Missis ! I took Miss Eva's red thing she wars on her neck . 
You did , you naughty child ! Well , what else ? I took Rosa's yer rings , them red ones . 
Go bring them to me this minute , both of 'em . 
Laws , Missis ! I can't , they 's burnt up ! Burnt up ! what a story ! Go get 'em , or I'll whip you . 
Topsy , with loud protestations , and tears , and groans , declared that she could not . 
They 's burnt up , they was . 
What did you burn 'em for ? said Miss Ophelia . 
Cause I 's wicked , I is . 
I 's mighty wicked , any how . 
Just at this moment , Eva came innocently into the room , with the identical coral necklace on her neck . 
Why , Eva , where did you get your necklace ? said Miss Ophelia . 
Get it ? Why , I've had it on all day , said Eva . 
Did you have it on yesterday ? Yes and what is funny , Aunty , I had it on all night . 
I forgot to take it off when I went to bed . 
But , of course , I didn't want you to confess things you didn't do , said Miss Ophelia that's telling a lie , just as much as the other . 
Laws , now , is it ? said Topsy , with an air of innocent wonder . 
La , there an't any such thing as truth in that limb , said Rosa , looking indignantly at Topsy . 
If I was Mas'r St . 
Clare , I'd whip her till the blood run . 
I can't bear to hear it . 
La sakes ! Miss Eva , you 's so good , you don't know nothing how to get along with niggers . 
There's no way but to cut 'em well up , I tell ye . 
Rosa ! said Eva , hush ! Don't you say another word of that sort ! and the eye of the child flashed , and her cheek deepened its color . 
Rosa was cowed in a moment . 
Miss Eva has got the St . 
Clare blood in her , that's plain . 
She can speak , for all the world , just like her papa , she said , as she passed out of the room . 
Eva stood looking at Topsy . 
There stood the two children representatives of the two extremes of society . 
They stood the representatives of their races . 
But a child's thoughts are rather dim , undefined instincts and in Eva's noble nature many such were yearning and working , for which she had no power of utterance . 
When Miss Ophelia expatiated on Topsy's naughty , wicked conduct , the child looked perplexed and sorrowful , but said , sweetly . 
Poor Topsy , why need you steal ? You're going to be taken good care of now . 
I'm sure I'd rather give you anything of mine , than have you steal it . 
But what was to be done with Topsy ? Miss Ophelia found the case a puzzler her rules for bringing up didn't seem to apply . 
I don't see , said Miss Ophelia to St . 
Clare , how I'm going to manage that child , without whipping her . 
Well , whip her , then , to your heart's content I'll give you full power to do what you like . 
Children always have to be whipped , said Miss Ophelia I never heard of bringing them up without . 
O , well , certainly , said St . 
Clare do as you think best . 
Only I'll make one suggestion I've seen this child whipped with a poker , knocked down with the shovel or tongs , whichever came handiest , c . 
and , seeing that she is used to that style of operation , I think your whippings will have to be pretty energetic , to make much impression . 
What is to be done with her , then ? said Miss Ophelia . 
You have started a serious question , said St . 
Clare I wish you'd answer it . 
Such children are very common among us , and such men and women , too . 
How are they to be governed ? said St . 
I'm sure it's more than I can say , said Miss Ophelia . 
Or I either , said St . 
Whipping and abuse are like laudanum you have to double the dose as the sensibilities decline . 
The consequence is , that my servants act like spoiled children but I think that better than for us both to be brutalized together . 
You have talked a great deal about our responsibilities in educating , Cousin . 
I really wanted you to try with one child , who is a specimen of thousands among us . 
It is your system makes such children , said Miss Ophelia . 
I know it but they are made , they exist , and what is to be done with them ? Well , I can't say I thank you for the experiment . 
She instituted regular hours and employments for her , and undertook to teach her to read and sew . 
In the former art , the child was quick enough . 
She learned her letters as if by magic , and was very soon able to read plain reading but the sewing was a more difficult matter . 
Topsy was soon a noted character in the establishment . 
Miss Ophelia was uneasy that Eva should fancy Topsy's society so much , and implored St . 
Poh ! let the child alone , said St . 
Topsy will do her good . 
Don't be too sure , said Miss Ophelia . 
I know I'd never let a child of mine play with Topsy . 
Well , your children needn't , said St . 
Clare , but mine may if Eva could have been spoiled , it would have been done years ago . 
Topsy was at first despised and contemned by the upper servants . 
They soon found reason to alter their opinion . 
Topsy was cited , and had up before all the domestic judicatories , time and again but always sustained her examinations with most edifying innocence and gravity of appearance . 
The mischiefs done were always so nicely timed , also , as further to shelter the aggressor . 
they were in disgrace with their mistress , when any complaint from them would of course meet with no sympathy . 
In short , Topsy soon made the household understand the propriety of letting her alone and she was let alone , accordingly . 
Topsy was smart and energetic in all manual operations , learning everything that was taught her with surprising quickness . 
With a few lessons , she had learned to do the proprieties of Miss Ophelia's chamber in a way with which even that particular lady could find no fault . 
Law , Missis , you must whip me my old Missis allers whipped me . 
I an't used to workin' unless I gets whipped . 
Why , Topsy , I don't want to whip you . 
You can do well , if you've a mind to what is the reason you won't ? Laws , Missis , I 's used to whippin' I spects it's good for me . 
Law , Miss Feely whip ! wouldn't kill a skeeter , her whippins . 
Oughter see how old Mas'r made the flesh fly old Mas'r know'd how ! Topsy always made great capital of her own sins and enormities , evidently considering them as something peculiarly distinguishing . 
Law , you niggers , she would say to some of her auditors , does you know you 's all sinners ? Well , you is everybody is . 
White folks is sinners too , Miss Feely says so but I spects niggers is the biggest ones but lor ! ye an't any on ye up to me . 
I 's so awful wicked there can't nobody do nothin' with me . 
I used to keep old Missis a swarin' at me half de time . 
Miss Ophelia busied herself very earnestly on Sundays , teaching Topsy the catechism . 
Topsy had an uncommon verbal memory , and committed with a fluency that greatly encouraged her instructress . 
What good do you expect it is going to do her ? said St . 
Why , it always has done children good . 
It's what children always have to learn , you know , said Miss Ophelia . 
Understand it or not , said St . 
O , children never understand it at the time but , after they are grown up , it'll come to them . 
Mine hasn't come to me yet , said St . 
Clare , though I'll bear testimony that you put it into me pretty thoroughly when I was a boy . 
Ah , you were always good at learning , Augustine . 
I used to have great hopes of you , said Miss Ophelia . 
Well , haven't you now ? said St . 
I wish you were as good as you were when you were a boy , Augustine . 
So do I , that's a fact , Cousin , said St . 
Well , go ahead and catechize Topsy may be you'll make out something yet . 
Topsy's eyes twinkled , and she looked inquiringly . 
What is it , Topsy ? said Miss Ophelia . 
Please , Missis , was dat ar state Kintuck ? What state , Topsy ? Dat state dey fell out of . 
I used to hear Mas'r tell how we came down from Kintuck . 
You'll have to give her a meaning , or she'll make one , said he . 
There seems to be a theory of emigration suggested there . 
Clare took his paper into the parlor , and sat down , till Topsy had finished her recitations . 
How do you think I can do anything with the child , if you will go on so , Augustine ? she would say . 
What's the odds ? One word is as good as another to her . 
You wanted me to bring her up right and you ought to remember she is a reasonable creature , and be careful of your influence over her . 
Clare took the same kind of amusement in the child that a man might in the tricks of a parrot or a pointer . 
Topsy , whenever her sins brought her into disgrace in other quarters , always took refuge behind his chair and St . 
Clare , in one way or other , would make peace for her . 
She is fairly introduced into our corps be ballet , and will figure , from time to time , in her turn , with other performers . 
Mr. Shelby sat in a large hall opening into the room , and running through the whole length of the house , to a balcony on either end . 
Leisurely tipped back on one chair , with his heels in another , he was enjoying his after dinner cigar . 
Mrs. Shelby sat in the door , busy about some fine sewing she seemed like one who had something on her mind , which she was seeking an opportunity to introduce . 
Do you know , she said , that Chloe has had a letter from Tom ? Ah ! has she ? Tom 's got some friend there , it seems . 
Ah ! well , I'm glad of it , very glad , said Mr. Shelby , heartily . 
Tom , I suppose , will get reconciled to a Southern residence hardly want to come up here again . 
On the contrary he inquires very anxiously , said Mrs. Shelby , when the money for his redemption is to be raised . 
I'm sure I don't know , said Mr. Shelby . 
Once get business running wrong , there does seem to be no end to it . 
It does seem to me , my dear , that something might be done to straighten matters . 
O , bother ! don't plague me , Emily ! I can't tell exactly . 
I know somewhere about what things are likely to be but there's no trimming and squaring my affairs , as Chloe trims crust off her pies . 
You don't know anything about business , I tell you . 
Mrs. Shelby ceased talking , with something of a sigh . 
Her heart was set on performing her promise to Tom and Aunt Chloe , and she sighed as discouragements thickened around her . 
Don't you think we might in some way contrive to raise that money ? Poor Aunt Chloe ! her heart is so set on it ! I'm sorry , if it is . 
I think I was premature in promising . 
I'm not sure , now , but it's the best way to tell Chloe , and let her make up her mind to it . 
Tom'll have another wife , in a year or two and she had better take up with somebody else . 
Mr. Shelby , I have taught my people that their marriages are as sacred as ours . 
I never could think of giving Chloe such advice . 
It's a pity , wife , that you have burdened them with a morality above their condition and prospects . 
It's only the morality of the Bible , Mr. Shelby . 
Well , well , Emily , I don't pretend to interfere with your religious notions only they seem extremely unfitted for people in that condition . 
They are , indeed , said Mrs. Shelby , and that is why , from my soul , I hate the whole thing . 
I tell you , my dear , I cannot absolve myself from the promises I make to these helpless creatures . 
If I can get the money no other way I will take music scholars I could get enough , I know , and earn the money myself . 
You wouldn't degrade yourself that way , Emily ? I never could consent to it . 
Here the conversation was interrupted by the appearance of Aunt Chloe , at the end of the verandah . 
If you please , Missis , said she . 
Well , Chloe , what is it ? said her mistress , rising , and going to the end of the balcony . 
If Missis would come and look at dis yer lot o' poetry . 
Chloe had a particular fancy for calling poultry poetry , an application of language in which she always persisted , notwithstanding frequent corrections and advisings from the young members of the family . 
La sakes ! she would say , I can't see one jis good as turry , poetry suthin good , any how and so poetry Chloe continued to call it . 
Mrs. Shelby smiled as she saw a prostrate lot of chickens and ducks , over which Chloe stood , with a very grave face of consideration . 
I'm a thinkin whether Missis would be a havin a chicken pie o' dese yer . 
Really , Aunt Chloe , I don't much care serve them any way you like . 
Chloe stood handling them over abstractedly it was quite evident that the chickens were not what she was thinking of . 
Well , laws , I 's a thinkin , Missis , it's time Sally was put along to be doin' something . 
I an't afraid to put my cake , nor pies nother , 'long side no perfectioner's . 
Louisville is a good way off . 
No , Chloe it's many a hundred miles off , said Mrs. Shelby . 
Never mind your going there shall bring you nearer , Chloe . 
Yes , you may go and your wages shall every cent of them be laid aside for your husband's redemption . 
As when a bright sunbeam turns a dark cloud to silver , so Chloe's dark face brightened immediately , it really shone . 
How many weeks is der in a year , Missis ? Fifty two , said Mrs. Shelby . 
Laws ! now , dere is ? and four dollars for each on em . 
Why , how much 'd dat ar be ? Two hundred and eight dollars , said Mrs. Shelby . 
I wouldn't hear to Missis' givin lessons nor nothin . 
Mas'r's quite right in dat ar 't wouldn't do , no ways . 
I hope none our family ever be brought to dat ar , while I 's got hands . 
Don't fear , Chloe I'll take care of the honor of the family , said Mrs. Shelby , smiling . 
If Missis was willin , I'd go with Sam tomorrow morning , if Missis would write my pass , and write me a commendation . 
Well , Chloe , I'll attend to it , if Mr. Shelby has no objections . 
I must speak to him . 
Mrs. Shelby went up stairs , and Aunt Chloe , delighted , went out to her cabin , to make her preparation . 
I thought I'd jis look over sis's things , and get 'em straightened up . 
I'll go right in the house , for paper and ink and then , you know , Aunt Chloe , I can tell about the new colts and all . 
CHAPTER XXII The Grass Withereth the Flower Fadeth Life passes , with us all , a day at a time so it passed with our friend Tom , till two years were gone . 
Tom read , in his only literary cabinet , of one who had learned in whatsoever state he was , therewith to be content . 
It seemed to him good and reasonable doctrine , and accorded well with the settled and thoughtful habit which he had acquired from the reading of that same book . 
Tom's cabin was shut up for the present but George expatiated brilliantly on ornaments and additions to be made to it when Tom came back . 
The style of the letter was decidedly concise and terse but Tom thought it the most wonderful specimen of composition that had appeared in modern times . 
He was never tired of looking at it , and even held a council with Eva on the expediency of getting it framed , to hang up in his room . 
Nothing but the difficulty of arranging it so that both sides of the page would show at once stood in the way of this undertaking . 
The friendship between Tom and Eva had grown with the child's growth . 
It would be hard to say what place she held in the soft , impressible heart of her faithful attendant . 
He loved her as something frail and earthly , yet almost worshipped her as something heavenly and divine . 
For the soul awakes , a trembling stranger , between two dim eternities , the eternal past , the eternal future . 
Its mystic imagery are so many talismans and gems inscribed with unknown hieroglyphics she folds them in her bosom , and expects to read them when she passes beyond the veil . 
At this time in our story , the whole St . 
Clare establishment is , for the time being , removed to their villa on Lake Pontchartrain . 
The heats of summer had driven all who were able to leave the sultry and unhealthy city , to seek the shores of the lake , and its cool sea breezes . 
Clare's villa was an East Indian cottage , surrounded by light verandahs of bamboo work , and opening on all sides into gardens and pleasure grounds . 
It is now one of those intensely golden sunsets which kindles the whole horizon into one blaze of glory , and makes the water another sky . 
Tom and Eva were seated on a little mossy seat , in an arbor , at the foot of the garden . 
It was Sunday evening , and Eva's Bible lay open on her knee . 
She read , And I saw a sea of glass , mingled with fire . 
Tom , said Eva , suddenly stopping , and pointing to the lake , there 't is . 
There's a sea of glass , mingled with fire . 
Where do you suppose new Jerusalem is , Uncle Tom ? said Eva . 
O , up in the clouds , Miss Eva . 
Then I think I see it , said Eva . 
Look in those clouds ! they look like great gates of pearl and you can see beyond them far , far off it's all gold . 
Tom , sing about spirits bright . 
Uncle Tom , I've seen them , said Eva . 
Tom had no doubt of it at all it did not surprise him in the least . 
If Eva had told him she had been to heaven , he would have thought it entirely probable . 
Uncle Tom , said Eva , I'm going there . 
I'm going there , she said , to the spirits bright , Tom I'm going , before long . 
In how many families do you hear the legend that all the goodness and graces of the living are nothing to the peculiar charms of one who is not . 
Even so , beloved Eva ! fair star of thy dwelling ! Thou are passing away but they that love thee dearest know it not . 
The colloquy between Tom and Eva was interrupted by a hasty call from Miss Ophelia . 
Eva Eva ! why , child , the dew is falling you mustn't be out there ! Eva and Tom hastened in . 
Miss Ophelia was old , and skilled in the tactics of nursing . 
She had noted the slight , dry cough , the daily brightening cheek nor could the lustre of the eye , and the airy buoyancy born of fever , deceive her . 
She tried to communicate her fears to St . 
Clare but he threw back her suggestions with a restless petulance , unlike his usual careless good humor . 
Don't be croaking , Cousin , I hate it ! he would say don't you see that the child is only growing . 
Children always lose strength when they grow fast . 
But she has that cough ! O ! nonsense of that cough ! it is not anything . 
She has taken a little cold , perhaps . 
Well , that was just the way Eliza Jane was taken , and Ellen and Maria Sanders . 
O ! stop these hobgoblin' nurse legends . 
You old hands got so wise , that a child cannot cough , or sneeze , but you see desperation and ruin at hand . 
Only take care of the child , keep her from the night air , and don't let her play too hard , and she'll do well enough . 
Clare said but he grew nervous and restless . 
If it must be told , the thing that struck a deeper pang to his heart than anything else was the daily increasing maturity of the child's mind and feelings . 
At such times , St . 
The child's whole heart and soul seemed absorbed in works of love and kindness . 
Impulsively generous she had always been but there was a touching and womanly thoughtfulness about her now , that every one noticed . 
Mamma , she said , suddenly , to her mother , one day , why don't we teach our servants to read ? What a question child ! People never do . 
Why don't they ? said Eva . 
Because it is no use for them to read . 
It don't help them to work any better , and they are not made for anything else . 
But they ought to read the Bible , mamma , to learn God's will . 
O ! they can get that read to them all they need . 
It seems to me , mamma , the Bible is for every one to read themselves . 
They need it a great many times when there is nobody to read it . 
Eva , you are an odd child , said her mother . 
Miss Ophelia has taught Topsy to read , continued Eva . 
Yes , and you see how much good it does . 
Topsy is the worst creature I ever saw ! Here's poor Mammy ! said Eva . 
Not but that is very proper I've done it myself , when I had health . 
But when you come to be dressing and going into company , you won't have time . 
See here ! she added , these jewels I'm going to give you when you come out . 
I wore them to my first ball . 
I can tell you , Eva , I made a sensation . 
Eva took the jewel case , and lifted from it a diamond necklace . 
Her large , thoughtful eyes rested on them , but it was plain her thoughts were elsewhere . 
How sober you look child ! said Marie . 
Are these worth a great deal of money , mamma ? To be sure , they are . 
Father sent to France for them . 
They are worth a small fortune . 
Eva was cut short by her mother's laughing . 
I know , mamma , it does come very hard on them that they can't do these things . 
Tom feels it Mammy does , a great many of them do . 
Come , come , Eva you are only a child ! You don't know anything about these things , said Marie besides , your talking makes my head ache . 
Marie always had a headache on hand for any conversation that did not exactly suit her . 
Eva stole away but after that , she assiduously gave Mammy reading lessons . 
CHAPTER XXIII Henrique About this time , St . 
Clare's brother Alfred , with his eldest son , a boy of twelve , spent a day or two with the family at the lake . 
No sight could be more singular and beautiful than that of these twin brothers . 
Nature , instead of instituting resemblances between them , had made them opposites on every point yet a mysterious tie seemed to unite them in a closer friendship than ordinary . 
They used to saunter , arm in arm , up and down the alleys and walks of the garden . 
Eva had a little pet pony , of a snowy whiteness . 
What's this , Dodo , you little lazy dog ! you haven't rubbed my horse down , this morning . 
Yes , Mas'r , said Dodo , submissively he got that dust on his own self . 
You rascal , shut your mouth ! said Henrique , violently raising his riding whip . 
How dare you speak ? The boy was a handsome , bright eyed mulatto , of just Henrique's size , and his curling hair hung round a high , bold forehead . 
He had white blood in his veins , as could be seen by the quick flush in his cheek , and the sparkle of his eye , as he eagerly tried to speak . 
Mas'r Henrique ! he began . 
There , you impudent dog ! Now will you learn not to answer back when I speak to you ? Take the horse back , and clean him properly . 
Dear Cousin , I'm sorry this stupid fellow has kept you waiting , he said . 
Let's sit down here , on this seat till they come . 
What's the matter , Cousin ? you look sober . 
How could you be so cruel and wicked to poor Dodo ? asked Eva . 
Cruel , wicked ! said the boy , with unaffected surprise . 
What do you mean , dear Eva ? I don't want you to call me dear Eva , when you do so , said Eva . 
Dear Cousin , you don't know Dodo it's the only way to manage him , he's so full of lies and excuses . 
The only way is to put him down at once , not let him open his mouth that's the way papa manages . 
But Uncle Tom said it was an accident , and he never tells what isn't true . 
He's an uncommon old nigger , then ! said Henrique . 
Dodo will lie as fast as he can speak . 
You frighten him into deceiving , if you treat him so . 
Why , Eva , you've really taken such a fancy to Dodo , that I shall be jealous . 
But you beat him , and he didn't deserve it . 
O , well , it may go for some time when he does , and don't get it . 
A few cuts never come amiss with Dodo , he's a regular spirit , I can tell you but I won't beat him again before you , if it troubles you . 
Eva was not satisfied , but found it in vain to try to make her handsome cousin understand her feelings . 
Dodo soon appeared , with the horses . 
Well , Dodo , you've done pretty well , this time , said his young master , with a more gracious air . 
Come , now , and hold Miss Eva's horse while I put her on to the saddle . 
Dodo came and stood by Eva's pony . 
His face was troubled his eyes looked as if he had been crying . 
Here , Dodo , said his master , imperiously . 
Dodo sprang and held the horse , while his master mounted . 
There's a picayune for you to buy candy with , Dodo , said Henrique go get some . 
And Henrique cantered down the walk after Eva . 
Dodo stood looking after the two children . 
One had given him money and one had given him what he wanted far more , a kind word , kindly spoken . 
Dodo had been only a few months away from his mother . 
The scene of the beating had been witnessed by the two brothers St . 
Clare , from another part of the garden . 
Augustine's cheek flushed but he only observed , with his usual sarcastic carelessness . 
I suppose that's what we may call republican education , Alfred ? Henrique is a devil of a fellow , when his blood's up , said Alfred , carelessly . 
I suppose you consider this an instructive practice for him , said Augustine , drily . 
I couldn't help it , if I didn't . 
Henrique is a regular little tempest his mother and I have given him up , long ago . 
But , then , that Dodo is a perfect sprite , no amount of whipping can hurt him . 
It's perfectly ridiculous to have that going the rounds among us , to this day . 
I think it is , said St . 
Because , said Alfred , we can see plainly enough that all men are not born free , nor born equal they are born anything else . 
For my part , I think half this republican talk sheer humbug . 
It is the educated , the intelligent , the wealthy , the refined , who ought to have equal rights and not the canaille . 
If you can keep the canaille of that opinion , said Augustine . 
They took their turn once , in France . 
Of course , they must be kept down , consistently , steadily , as I should , said Alfred , setting his foot hard down as if he were standing on somebody . 
It makes a terrible slip when they get up , said Augustine , in St . 
Poh ! said Alfred , we'll take care of that , in this country . 
We must set our face against all this educating , elevating talk , that is getting about now the lower class must not be educated . 
That is past praying for , said Augustine educated they will be , and we have only to say how . 
Our system is educating them in barbarism and brutality . 
We are breaking all humanizing ties , and making them brute beasts and , if they get the upper hand , such we shall find them . 
They shall never get the upper hand ! said Alfred . 
That's right , said St . 
Clare put on the steam , fasten down the escape valve , and sit on it , and see where you'll land . 
Well , said Alfred , we will see . 
I'm not afraid to sit on the escape valve , as long as the boilers are strong , and the machinery works well . 
The nobles in Louis XVI . 
's time thought just so and Austria and Pius IX . 
think so now and , some pleasant morning , you may all be caught up to meet each other in the air , when the boilers burst . 
Dies declarabit , said Alfred , laughing . 
Greasy or not greasy , they will govern you , when their time comes , said Augustine and they will be just such rulers as you make them . 
The French noblesse chose to have the people sans culottes , and they had sans culotte governors to their hearts' content . 
The Anglo Saxon is the dominant race of the world , and is to be so . 
The Emperor Dessalines , come to power in , massacred all the whites on the island . 
Haitian bloodshed became an argument to show the barbarous nature of the Negro , a doctrine Wendell Phillips sought to combat in his celebrated lecture on Toussaint L'Ouverture . 
Well , there is a pretty fair infusion of Anglo Saxon blood among our slaves , now , said Augustine . 
There are plenty among them who have only enough of the African to give a sort of tropical warmth and fervor to our calculating firmness and foresight . 
If ever the San Domingo hour comes , Anglo Saxon blood will lead on the day . 
Sons of white fathers , with all our haughty feelings burning in their veins , will not always be bought and sold and traded . 
They will rise , and raise with them their mother's race . 
On the whole , Augustine , I think your talents might do for a circuit rider , said Alfred , laughing . 
Never you fear for us possession is our nine points . 
This subject race , said he , stamping firmly , is down and shall stay down ! We have energy enough to manage our own powder . 
There is a trouble there said Alfred , thoughtfully there's no doubt that our system is a difficult one to train children under . 
It gives too free scope to the passions , altogether , which , in our climate , are hot enough . 
I find trouble with Henrique . 
The boy is generous and warm hearted , but a perfect fire cracker when excited . 
I believe I shall send him North for his education , where obedience is more fashionable , and where he will associate more with equals , and less with dependents . 
Since training children is the staple work of the human race , said Augustine , I should think it something of a consideration that our system does not work well there . 
It does not for some things , said Alfred for others , again , it does . 
It makes boys manly and courageous and the very vices of an abject race tend to strengthen in them the opposite virtues . 
I think Henrique , now , has a keener sense of the beauty of truth , from seeing lying and deception the universal badge of slavery . 
A Christian like view of the subject , certainly ! said Augustine . 
It's true , Christian like or not and is about as Christian like as most other things in the world , said Alfred . 
That may be , said St . 
Well , there's no use in talking , Augustine . 
I believe we've been round and round this old track five hundred times , more or less . 
As they were setting their men , Alfred said , I tell you , Augustine , if I thought as you do , I should do something . 
One man can do nothing , against the whole action of a community . 
Education , to do anything , must be a state education or there must be enough agreed in it to make a current . 
You take the first throw , said Alfred and the brothers were soon lost in the game , and heard no more till the scraping of horses' feet was heard under the verandah . 
There come the children , said Augustine , rising . 
Look here , Alf ! Did you ever see anything so beautiful ? And , in truth , it was a beautiful sight . 
Henrique , with his bold brow , and dark , glossy curls , and glowing cheek , was laughing gayly as he bent towards his fair cousin , as they came on . 
She was dressed in a blue riding dress , with a cap of the same color . 
Exercise had given a brilliant hue to her cheeks , and heightened the effect of her singularly transparent skin , and golden hair . 
Good heavens ! what perfectly dazzling beauty ! said Alfred . 
I tell you , Auguste , won't she make some hearts ache , one of these days ? She will , too truly , God knows I'm afraid so ! said St . 
Clare , in a tone of sudden bitterness , as he hurried down to take her off her horse . 
Eva darling ! you're not much tired ? he said , as he clasped her in his arms . 
No , papa , said the child but her short , hard breathing alarmed her father . 
How could you ride so fast , dear ? you know it's bad for you . 
I felt so well , papa , and liked it so much , I forgot . 
Clare carried her in his arms into the parlor , and laid her on the sofa . 
Henrique , you must be careful of Eva , said he you mustn't ride fast with her . 
I'll take her under my care , said Henrique , seating himself by the sofa , and taking Eva's hand . 
Eva soon found herself much better . 
Her father and uncle resumed their game , and the children were left together . 
I don't mean to treat Dodo ill but , you know , I've got such a quick temper . 
I'm not really bad to him , though . 
I give him a picayune , now and then and you see he dresses well . 
I think , on the whole , Dodo 's pretty well off . 
Would you think you were well off , if there were not one creature in the world near you to love you ? I ? Well , of course not . 
And you have taken Dodo away from all the friends he ever had , and now he has not a creature to love him nobody can be good that way . 
Well , I can't help it , as I know of . 
I can't get his mother and I can't love him myself , nor anybody else , as I know of . 
Why can't you ? said Eva . 
Love Dodo ! Why , Eva , you wouldn't have me ! I may like him well enough but you don't love your servants . 
Eva did not speak her eyes were fixed and thoughtful for a few moments . 
Eva received it with perfect simplicity , without even a change of feature merely saying , I'm glad you feel so , dear Henrique ! I hope you will remember . 
The dinner bell put an end to the interview . 
CHAPTER XXIV Foreshadowings Two days after this , Alfred St . 
Clare and Augustine parted and Eva , who had been stimulated , by the society of her young cousin , to exertions beyond her strength , began to fail rapidly . 
Clare was at last willing to call in medical advice , a thing from which he had always shrunk , because it was the admission of an unwelcome truth . 
But , for a day or two , Eva was so unwell as to be confined to the house and the doctor was called . 
Miss Ophelia had several times tried to awaken her maternal fears about Eva but to no avail . 
I don't see as anything ails the child , she would say she runs about , and plays . 
But she has a cough . 
Cough ! you don't need to tell me about a cough . 
I've always been subject to a cough , all my days . 
When I was of Eva's age , they thought I was in a consumption . 
Night after night , Mammy used to sit up with me . 
O ! Eva's cough is not anything . 
But she gets weak , and is short breathed . 
Law ! I've had that , years and years it's only a nervous affection . 
But she sweats so , nights ! Well , I have , these ten years . 
Very often , night after night , my clothes will be wringing wet . 
But , now that Eva was fairly and visibly prostrated , and a doctor called , Marie , all on a sudden , took a new turn . 
She knew it , she said she always felt it , that she was destined to be the most miserable of mothers . 
My dear Marie , don't talk so ! said St . 
You ought not to give up the case so , at once . 
You have not a mother's feelings , St . 
Clare ! You never could understand me ! you don't now . 
But don't talk so , as if it were a gone case ! I can't take it as indifferently as you can , St . 
If you don't feel when your only child is in this alarming state , I do . 
It's a blow too much for me , with all I was bearing before . 
It's true , said St . 
Clare , that Eva is very delicate , that I always knew and that she has grown so rapidly as to exhaust her strength and that her situation is critical . 
But just now she is only prostrated by the heat of the weather , and by the excitement of her cousin's visit , and the exertions she made . 
The physician says there is room for hope . 
Well , of course , if you can look on the bright side , pray do it's a mercy if people haven't sensitive feelings , in this world . 
Poor Eva heard some of these speeches and nearly cried her little eyes out , in pity for her mamma , and in sorrow that she should make her so much distress . 
Miss Ophelia and the physician alone felt no encouragement from this illusive truce . 
There was one other heart , too , that felt the same certainty , and that was the little heart of Eva . 
For the child , though nursed so tenderly , and though life was unfolding before her with every brightness that love and wealth could give , had no regret for herself in dying . 
His love enfolded her childish heart with more than mortal tenderness and it was to Him , she said , she was going , and to his home . 
But her heart yearned with sad tenderness for all that she was to leave behind . 
Her father most , for Eva , though she never distinctly thought so , had an instinctive perception that she was more in his heart than any other . 
She felt , too , for those fond , faithful servants , to whom she was as daylight and sunshine . 
Uncle Tom , she said , one day , when she was reading to her friend , I can understand why Jesus wanted to die for us . 
Why , Miss Eva ? Because I've felt so , too . 
What is it Miss Eva ? I don't understand . 
I would die for them , Tom , if I could , said the child , earnestly , laying her little thin hand on his . 
Tom looked at the child with awe and when she , hearing her father's voice , glided away , he wiped his eyes many times , as he looked after her . 
It's jest no use tryin' to keep Miss Eva here , he said to Mammy , whom he met a moment after . 
She's got the Lord's mark in her forehead . 
Ah , yes , yes , said Mammy , raising her hands I've allers said so . 
She wasn't never like a child that's to live there was allers something deep in her eyes . 
Clare had called her to show a statuette that he had been buying for her but her appearance , as she came on , impressed him suddenly and painfully . 
There is a kind of beauty so intense , yet so fragile , that we cannot bear to look at it . 
Her father folded her suddenly in his arms , and almost forgot what he was going to tell her . 
I want to say them now , before I get weaker . 
Clare trembled as Eva seated herself in his lap . 
She laid her head on his bosom , and said , It's all no use , papa , to keep it to myself any longer . 
The time is coming that I am going to leave you . 
I am going , and never to come back ! and Eva sobbed . 
O , now , my dear little Eva ! said St . 
Clare , trembling as he spoke , but speaking cheerfully , you've got nervous and low spirited you mustn't indulge such gloomy thoughts . 
I am not nervous , I am not low spirited . 
If it were not for you , papa , and my friends , I should be perfectly happy . 
I had rather be in heaven though , only for my friends' sake , I would be willing to live . 
I feel sad for our poor people they love me dearly , and they are all good and kind to me . 
I wish , papa , they were all free . 
Uncle Alfred isn't like you , and mamma isn't and then , think of poor old Prue's owners ! What horrid things people do , and can do ! and Eva shuddered . 
My dear child , you are too sensitive . 
I'm sorry I ever let you hear such stories . 
O , that's what troubles me , papa . 
I ought to know such things , I ought to feel about them ! Such things always sunk into my heart they went down deep I've thought and thought about them . 
Papa , isn't there any way to have all slaves made free ? That's a difficult question , dearest . 
I would do it , if I could . 
When you are dead , Eva , said St . 
O , child , don't talk to me so ! You are all I have on earth . 
O ! do something for them ! There's poor Mammy loves her children I've seen her cry when she talked about them . 
And Tom loves his children and it's dreadful , papa , that such things are happening , all the time ! There , there , darling , said St . 
Clare , soothingly only don't distress yourself , don't talk of dying , and I will do anything you wish . 
Dear papa , said the child , laying her burning cheek against his , how I wish we could go together ! Where , dearest ? said St . 
To our Saviour's home it's so sweet and peaceful there it is all so loving there ! The child spoke unconsciously , as of a place where she had often been . 
Don't you want to go , papa ? she said . 
Clare drew her closer to him , but was silent . 
You will come to me , said the child , speaking in a voice of calm certainty which she often used unconsciously . 
I shall come after you . 
I shall not forget you . 
The shadows of the solemn evening closed round them deeper and deeper , as St . 
Clare sat silently holding the little frail form to his bosom . 
We can think much , very much , in a moment . 
CHAPTER XXV The Little Evangelist It was Sunday afternoon . 
Clare was stretched on a bamboo lounge in the verandah , solacing himself with a cigar . 
I say , Augustine , said Marie after dozing a while , I must send to the city after my old Doctor Posey I'm sure I've got the complaint of the heart . 
Well why need you send for him ? This doctor that attends Eva seems skilful . 
O , Marie , you are blue I don't believe it's heart complaint . 
I dare say you don't , said Marie I was prepared to expect that . 
You can be alarmed enough , if Eva coughs , or has the least thing the matter with her but you never think of me . 
If it's particularly agreeable to you to have heart disease , why , I'll try and maintain you have it , said St . 
Clare I didn't know it was . 
What the exertions were which Marie referred to , it would have been difficult to state . 
They soon heard loud exclamations from Miss Ophelia's room , which , like the one in which they were sitting , opened on to the verandah and violent reproof addressed to somebody . 
What new witchcraft has Tops been brewing ? asked St . 
That commotion is of her raising , I'll be bound ! And , in a moment after , Miss Ophelia , in high indignation , came dragging the culprit along . 
Come out here , now ! she said . 
I will tell your master ! What's the case now ? asked Augustine . 
If I had my way , now , she said , looking reproachfully at St . 
Clare , I'd send that child out , and have her thoroughly whipped I'd have her whipped till she couldn't stand ! I don't doubt it , said St . 
There is no use in this shilly shally way of yours , St . 
Cousin is a woman of sense , and she sees it now , as plain as I do . 
I wouldn't have the child treated so , for the world , she said but , I am sure , Augustine , I don't know what to do . 
I've taught and taught I've talked till I'm tired I've whipped her I've punished her in every way I can think of , and she's just what she was at first . 
Come here , Tops , you monkey ! said St . 
Clare , calling the child up to him . 
Topsy came up her round , hard eyes glittering and blinking with a mixture of apprehensiveness and their usual odd drollery . 
What makes you behave so ? said St . 
Clare , who could not help being amused with the child's expression . 
Spects it's my wicked heart , said Topsy , demurely Miss Feely says so . 
Don't you see how much Miss Ophelia has done for you ? She says she has done everything she can think of . 
Lor , yes , Mas'r ! old Missis used to say so , too . 
Well , I'd just like to ask one question , said St . 
Miss Ophelia did not make an immediate answer and Eva , who had stood a silent spectator of the scene thus far , made a silent sign to Topsy to follow her . 
There was a little glass room at the corner of the verandah , which St . 
Clare used as a sort of reading room and Eva and Topsy disappeared into this place . 
What's Eva going about , now ? said St . 
Clare I mean to see . 
And , advancing on tiptoe , he lifted up a curtain that covered the glass door , and looked in . 
In a moment , laying his finger on his lips , he made a silent gesture to Miss Ophelia to come and look . 
There sat the two children on the floor , with their side faces towards them . 
Topsy , with her usual air of careless drollery and unconcern but , opposite to her , Eva , her whole face fervent with feeling , and tears in her large eyes . 
But you love your father and mother ? Never had none , ye know . 
I telled ye that , Miss Eva . 
O , I know , said Eva , sadly but hadn't you any brother , or sister , or aunt , or No , none on 'em , never had nothing nor nobody . 
But , Topsy , if you'd only try to be good , you might Couldn't never be nothin' but a nigger , if I was ever so good , said Topsy . 
If I could be skinned , and come white , I'd try then . 
But people can love you , if you are black , Topsy . 
Miss Ophelia would love you , if you were good . 
Topsy gave the short , blunt laugh that was her common mode of expressing incredulity . 
Don't you think so ? said Eva . 
I am very unwell , Topsy , and I think I shan't live a great while and it really grieves me , to have you be so naughty . 
I wish you would try to be good , for my sake it's only a little while I shall be with you . 
The round , keen eyes of the black child were overcast with tears large , bright drops rolled heavily down , one by one , and fell on the little white hand . 
Poor Topsy ! said Eva , don't you know that Jesus loves all alike ? He is just as willing to love you , as me . 
He loves you just as I do , only more , because he is better . 
He will help you to be good and you can go to Heaven at last , and be an angel forever , just as much as if you were white . 
Only think of it , Topsy ! you can be one of those spirits bright , Uncle Tom sings about . 
O , dear Miss Eva , dear Miss Eva ! said the child I will try , I will try I never did care nothin' about it before . 
Clare , at this instant , dropped the curtain . 
It puts me in mind of mother , he said to Miss Ophelia . 
Trust any child to find that out , said St . 
Clare there's no keeping it from them . 
Well , she's so loving ! After all , though , she's no more than Christ like , said Miss Ophelia I wish I were like her . 
She might teach me a lesson . 
It wouldn't be the first time a little child had been used to instruct an old disciple , if it were so , said St . 
CHAPTER XXVI Death Weep not for those whom the veil of the tomb , In life's early morning , hath hid from our eyes . 
Weep Not for Those , a poem by Thomas Moore . 
Eva's bed room was a spacious apartment , which , like all the other robins in the house , opened on to the broad verandah . 
The room communicated , on one side , with her father and mother's apartment on the other , with that appropriated to Miss Ophelia . 
Clare had gratified his own eye and taste , in furnishing this room in a style that had a peculiar keeping with the character of her for whom it was intended . 
The bedstead , chairs , and lounges , were of bamboo , wrought in peculiarly graceful and fanciful patterns . 
Over the head of the bed was an alabaster bracket , on which a beautiful sculptured angel stood , with drooping wings , holding out a crown of myrtle leaves . 
Two or three exquisite paintings of children , in various attitudes , embellished the wall . 
In short , the eye could turn nowhere without meeting images of childhood , of beauty , and of peace . 
Those little eyes never opened , in the morning light , without falling on something which suggested to the heart soothing and beautiful thoughts . 
What now , you baggage ! what new piece of mischief ! You've been picking the flowers , hey ? and Eva heard the sound of a smart slap . 
Law , Missis ! they 's for Miss Eva , she heard a voice say , which she knew belonged to Topsy . 
O , don't , mother ! I should like the flowers do give them to me I want them ! Why , Eva , your room is full now . 
I can't have too many , said Eva . 
Topsy , do bring them here . 
Topsy , who had stood sullenly , holding down her head , now came up and offered her flowers . 
She did it with a look of hesitation and bashfulness , quite unlike the eldrich boldness and brightness which was usual with her . 
It's a beautiful bouquet ! said Eva , looking at it . 
It was rather a singular one , a brilliant scarlet geranium , and one single white japonica , with its glossy leaves . 
It was tied up with an evident eye to the contrast of color , and the arrangement of every leaf had carefully been studied . 
Topsy looked pleased , as Eva said , Topsy , you arrange flowers very prettily . 
Here , she said , is this vase I haven't any flowers for . 
I wish you'd arrange something every day for it . 
Well , that's odd ! said Marie . 
Topsy made a short courtesy , and looked down and , as she turned away , Eva saw a tear roll down her dark cheek . 
You see , mamma , I knew poor Topsy wanted to do something for me , said Eva to her mother . 
O , nonsense ! it's only because she likes to do mischief . 
She knows she mustn't pick flowers , so she does it that's all there is to it . 
But , if you fancy to have her pluck them , so be it . 
Mamma , I think Topsy is different from what she used to be she's trying to be a good girl . 
She'll have to try a good while before she gets to be good , said Marie , with a careless laugh . 
Well , you know , mamma , poor Topsy ! everything has always been against her . 
Not since she's been here , I'm sure . 
I suppose she could , though . 
But , mamma , isn't God her father , as much as ours ? Isn't Jesus her Saviour ? Well , that may be . 
I suppose God made everybody , said Marie . 
Where is my smelling bottle ? It's such a pity , oh ! such a pity ! said Eva , looking out on the distant lake , and speaking half to herself . 
What's a pity ? said Marie . 
I hardly can be , said Eva , I'm so sorry to think of poor folks that haven't any . 
That's odd enough , said Marie I'm sure my religion makes me thankful for my advantages . 
Mamma , said Eva , I want to have some of my hair cut off , a good deal of it . 
What for ? said Marie . 
Mamma , I want to give some away to my friends , while I am able to give it to them myself . 
Won't you ask aunty to come and cut it for me ? Marie raised her voice , and called Miss Ophelia , from the other room . 
Clare , who just then entered with some fruit he had been out to get for her . 
Papa , I just want aunty to cut off some of my hair there's too much of it , and it makes my head hot . 
Besides , I want to give some of it away . 
Miss Ophelia came , with her scissors . 
Take care , don't spoil the looks of it ! said her father cut underneath , where it won't show . 
Eva's curls are my pride . 
O , papa ! said Eva , sadly . 
Yes , and I want them kept handsome against the time I take you up to your uncle's plantation , to see Cousin Henrique , said St . 
Clare , in a gay tone . 
I shall never go there , papa I am going to a better country . 
Only because it is true , papa and , if you will believe it now , perhaps you will get to feel about it as I do . 
She raised them up , looked earnestly at them , twined them around her thin fingers , and looked from time to time , anxiously at her father . 
I have seen this , long . 
Clare , you will see , after a while , that I was right . 
Which will afford you great consolation , no doubt ! said St . 
Clare , in a dry , bitter tone . 
Marie lay back on a lounge , and covered her face with her cambric handkerchief . 
Eva's clear blue eye looked earnestly from one to the other . 
It was the calm , comprehending gaze of a soul half loosed from its earthly bonds it was evident she saw , felt , and appreciated , the difference between the two . 
She beckoned with her hand to her father . 
He came and sat down by her . 
Papa , my strength fades away every day , and I know I must go . 
There are some things I want to say and do , that I ought to do and you are so unwilling to have me speak a word on this subject . 
But it must come there's no putting it off . 
Do be willing I should speak now ! My child , I am willing ! said St . 
Clare , covering his eyes with one hand , and holding up Eva's hand with the other . 
Then , I want to see all our people together . 
I have some things I must say to them , said Eva . 
Clare , in a tone of dry endurance . 
Miss Ophelia despatched a messenger , and soon the whole of the servants were convened in the room . 
The servants were struck with a sudden emotion . 
There was a deep silence , like that of a funeral . 
Eva raised herself , and looked long and earnestly round at every one . 
All looked sad and apprehensive . 
Many of the women hid their faces in their aprons . 
I sent for you all , my dear friends , said Eva , because I love you . 
I love you all and I have something to say to you , which I want you always to remember . 
I am going to leave you . 
She waited a moment , and then , speaking in a tone that checked the sobs of all , she said , If you love me , you must not interrupt me so . 
Listen to what I say . 
I want to speak to you about your souls . 
Many of you , I am afraid , are very careless . 
You are thinking only about this world . 
I want you to remember that there is a beautiful world , where Jesus is . 
I am going there , and you can go there . 
It is for you , as much as me . 
But , if you want to go there , you must not live idle , careless , thoughtless lives . 
You must remember that each one of you can become angels , and be angels forever . 
If you want to be Christians , Jesus will help you . 
Amen , was the murmured response from the lips of Tom and Mammy , and some of the elder ones , who belonged to the Methodist church . 
The younger and more thoughtless ones , for the time completely overcome , were sobbing , with their heads bowed upon their knees . 
I know , said Eva , you all love me . 
Yes oh , yes ! indeed we do ! Lord bless her ! was the involuntary answer of all . 
At last , all were gone but Tom and Mammy . 
Here , Uncle Tom , said Eva , is a beautiful one for you . 
O , Miss Eva , don't see how I can live without ye , no how ! said the faithful creature . 
'Pears like it's just taking everything off the place to oncet ! and Mammy gave way to a passion of grief . 
Miss Ophelia pushed her and Tom gently from the apartment , and thought they were all gone but , as she turned , Topsy was standing there . 
Where did you start up from ? she said , suddenly . 
I was here , said Topsy , wiping the tears from her eyes . 
O , Miss Eva , I've been a bad girl but won't you give me one , too ? Yes , poor Topsy ! to be sure , I will . 
Topsy , with her eyes hid in her apron , was silently passed from the apartment by Miss Ophelia but , as she went , she hid the precious curl in her bosom . 
All being gone , Miss Ophelia shut the door . 
That worthy lady had wiped away many tears of her own , during the scene but concern for the consequence of such an excitement to her young charge was uppermost in her mind . 
Clare had been sitting , during the whole time , with his hand shading his eyes , in the same attitude . 
When they were all gone , he sat so still . 
Papa ! said Eva , gently , laying her hand on his . 
He gave a sudden start and shiver but made no answer . 
Dear papa ! said Eva . 
I cannot , said St . 
Clare , rising , I cannot have it so ! The Almighty hath dealt very bitterly with me ! and St . 
Clare pronounced these words with a bitter emphasis , indeed . 
Augustine ! has not God a right to do what he will with his own ? said Miss Ophelia . 
Perhaps so but that doesn't make it any easier to bear , said he , with a dry , hard , tearless manner , as he turned away . 
There , Eva , there , dearest ! Hush ! hush ! I was wrong I was wicked . 
I will feel any way , do any way , only don't distress yourself don't sob so . 
I will be resigned I was wicked to speak as I did . 
Eva soon lay like a wearied dove in her father's arms and he , bending over her , soothed her by every tender word he could think of . 
Marie rose and threw herself out of the apartment into her own , when she fell into violent hysterics . 
You didn't give me a curl , Eva , said her father , smiling sadly . 
They are all yours , papa , said she , smiling yours and mamma's and you must give dear aunty as many as she wants . 
You are a Christian , are you not , papa ? said Eva , doubtfully . 
Why do you ask me ? I don't know . 
You are so good , I don't see how you can help it . 
What is being a Christian , Eva ? Loving Christ most of all , said Eva . 
Do you , Eva ? Certainly I do . 
You never saw him , said St . 
That makes no difference , said Eva . 
I believe him , and in a few days I shall see him and the young face grew fervent , radiant with joy . 
It was a feeling which he had seen before in his mother but no chord within vibrated to it . 
Eva , after this , declined rapidly there was no more any doubt of the event the fondest hope could not be blinded . 
They who had shrugged their shoulders at her little peculiarities and setnesses , so unlike the careless freedom of southern manners , acknowledged that now she was the exact person that was wanted . 
Uncle Tom was much in Eva's room . 
Her father often did the same thing but his frame was slighter , and when he was weary , Eva would say to him , O , papa , let Tom take me . 
Poor fellow ! it pleases him and you know it's all he can do now , and he wants to do something ! So do I , Eva ! said her father . 
Well , papa , you can do everything , and are everything to me . 
He carries me so strong ! The desire to do something was not confined to Tom . 
Every servant in the establishment showed the same feeling , and in their way did what they could . 
Indeed , my dear , said St . 
Clare , I thought our cousin relieved you of that . 
You talk like a man , St . 
You must excuse him , he couldn't help it , for St . 
Clare found a strange calm coming over him . 
The friend who knew most of Eva's own imaginings and foreshadowings was her faithful bearer , Tom . 
To him she said what she would not disturb her father by saying . 
To him she imparted those mysterious intimations which the soul feels , as the cords begin to unbind , ere it leaves its clay forever . 
Tom , at last , would not sleep in his room , but lay all night in the outer verandah , ready to rouse at every call . 
Uncle Tom , what alive have you taken to sleeping anywhere and everywhere , like a dog , for ? said Miss Ophelia . 
I thought you was one of the orderly sort , that liked to lie in bed in a Christian way . 
I do , Miss Feely , said Tom , mysteriously . 
I do , but now Well , what now ? We mustn't speak loud Mas'r St . 
Clare won't hear on 't but Miss Feely , you know there must be somebody watchin' for the bridegroom . 
What do you mean , Tom ? You know it says in Scripture , At midnight there was a great cry made . 
Behold , the bridegroom cometh . 
That's what I'm spectin now , every night , Miss Feely , and I couldn't sleep out o' hearin , no ways . 
Why , Uncle Tom , what makes you think so ? Miss Eva , she talks to me . 
The Lord , he sends his messenger in the soul . 
It's the angels , it's the trumpet sound afore the break o' day , said Tom , quoting from a favorite hymn . 
She was not nervous or impressible but the solemn , heart felt manner struck her . 
The outer door was quickly opened , and Tom , who was watching outside , was on the alert , in a moment . 
Go for the doctor , Tom ! lose not a moment , said Miss Ophelia and , stepping across the room , she rapped at St . 
Cousin , she said , I wish you would come . 
Those words fell on his heart like clods upon a coffin . 
Why did they ? He was up and in the room in an instant , and bending over Eva , who still slept . 
They stood there so still , gazing upon her , that even the ticking of the watch seemed too loud . 
In a few moments , Tom returned , with the doctor . 
He entered , gave one look , and stood silent as the rest . 
When did this change take place ? said he , in a low whisper , to Miss Ophelia . 
About the turn of the night , was the reply . 
Marie , roused by the entrance of the doctor , appeared , hurriedly , from the next room . 
Augustine ! Cousin ! O ! what ! she hurriedly began . 
Clare , hoarsely she is dying ! Mammy heard the words , and flew to awaken the servants . 
The house was soon roused , lights were seen , footsteps heard , anxious faces thronged the verandah , and looked tearfully through the glass doors but St . 
Clare heard and said nothing , he saw only that look on the face of the little sleeper . 
Do you know me , Eva ? Dear papa , said the child , with a last effort , throwing her arms about his neck . 
In a moment they dropped again and , as St . 
Clare raised his head , he saw a spasm of mortal agony pass over the face , she struggled for breath , and threw up her little hands . 
O , God , this is dreadful ! he said , turning away in agony , and wringing Tom's hand , scarce conscious what he was doing . 
Pray that this may be cut short ! said St . 
Clare , this wrings my heart . 
O , bless the Lord ! it's over , it's over , dear Master ! said Tom look at her . 
The child lay panting on her pillows , as one exhausted , the large clear eyes rolled up and fixed . 
They pressed around her , in breathless stillness . 
O , Eva , tell us what you see ! What is it ? said her father . 
There is no death to such as thou , dear Eva ! neither darkness nor shadow of death only such a bright fading as when the morning star fades in the golden dawn . 
Thine is the victory without the battle , the crown without the conflict . 
Clare think , as , with folded arms , he stood there gazing . 
There were still flowers on the shelves , all white , delicate and fragrant , with graceful , drooping leaves . 
Eva's little table , covered with white , bore on it her favorite vase , with a single white moss rose bud in it . 
The folds of the drapery , the fall of the curtains , had been arranged and rearranged , by Adolph and Rosa , with that nicety of eye which characterizes their race . 
Even now , while St . 
Clare stood there thinking , little Rosa tripped softly into the chamber with a basket of white flowers . 
She stepped back when she saw St . 
Clare , and stopped respectfully but , seeing that he did not observe her , she came forward to place them around the dead . 
Clare saw her as in a dream , while she placed in the small hands a fair cape jessamine , and , with admirable taste , disposed other flowers around the couch . 
The door opened again , and Topsy , her eyes swelled with crying , appeared , holding something under her apron . 
Rosa made a quick forbidding gesture but she took a step into the room . 
Do let me put just one there . 
Get along ! said Rosa , more decidedly . 
Let her stay ! said St . 
Clare , suddenly stamping his foot . 
Miss Ophelia hastened into the room , and tried to raise and silence her but in vain . 
Clare's white , marble like face , and the first tears he had shed since Eva died stood in his eyes . 
Get up , child , said Miss Ophelia , in a softened voice don't cry so . 
Miss Eva is gone to heaven she is an angel . 
But I can't see her ! said Topsy . 
I never shall see her ! and she sobbed again . 
They all stood a moment in silence . 
Clare but do , he said to Miss Ophelia , see if you can't comfort the poor creature . 
I jist wish I hadn't never been born , said Topsy . 
I didn't want to be born , no ways and I don't see no use on 't . 
Miss Ophelia raised her gently , but firmly , and took her from the room but , as she did so , some tears fell from her eyes . 
I hope I've learnt something of the love of Christ from her . 
I can love you I do , and I'll try to help you to grow up a good Christian girl . 
Miss Ophelia's voice was more than her words , and more than that were the honest tears that fell down her face . 
From that hour , she acquired an influence over the mind of the destitute child that she never lost . 
O , my Eva , whose little hour on earth did so much of good , thought St . 
Tom , however , had a feeling at his own heart , that drew him to his master . 
In a few days the St . 
Clare family were back again in the city Augustine , with the restlessness of grief , longing for another scene , to change the current of his thoughts . 
So they left the house and garden , with its little grave , and came back to New Orleans and St . 
Clare is a singular man , said Marie to Miss Ophelia , in a complaining tone . 
I used to think , if there was anything in the world he did love , it was our dear little Eva but he seems to be forgetting her very easily . 
I cannot ever get him to talk about her . 
I really did think he would show more feeling ! Still waters run deepest , they used to tell me , said Miss Ophelia , oracularly . 
O , I don't believe in such things it's all talk . 
If people have feeling , they will show it , they can't help it but , then , it's a great misfortune to have feeling . 
I'd rather have been made like St . 
My feelings prey upon me so ! Sure , Missis , Mas'r St . 
Clare is gettin' thin as a shader . 
They say , he don't never eat nothin' , said Mammy . 
I know he don't forget Miss Eva I know there couldn't nobody , dear , little , blessed cretur ! she added , wiping her eyes . 
The heart knoweth its own bitterness , said Miss Ophelia , gravely . 
That's just what I think . 
I know just what I feel , nobody else seems to . 
Eva used to , but she is gone ! and Marie lay back on her lounge , and began to sob disconsolately . 
Marie was one of those unfortunately constituted mortals , in whose eyes whatever is lost and gone assumes a value which it never had in possession . 
Whatever she had , she seemed to survey only to pick flaws in it but , once fairly away , there was no end to her valuation of it . 
While this conversation was taking place in the parlor another was going on in St . 
Clare lay on his lounge , at the further end of the room . 
He was lying on his face , with Eva's Bible open before him , at a little distance . 
Tom walked up , and stood by the sofa . 
He hesitated and , while he was hesitating , St . 
Clare suddenly raised himself up . 
The honest face , so full of grief , and with such an imploring expression of affection and sympathy , struck his master . 
He laid his hand on Tom's , and bowed down his forehead on it . 
O , Tom , my boy , the whole world is as empty as an egg shell . 
It seems to be given to children , and poor , honest fellows , like you , to see what we can't , said St . 
How comes it ? Thou has hid from the wise and prudent , and revealed unto babes , murmured Tom even so , Father , for so it seemed good in thy sight . 
Tom , I don't believe , I can't believe , I've got the habit of doubting , said St . 
I want to believe this Bible , and I can't . 
Dear Mas'r , pray to the good Lord , Lord , I believe help thou my unbelief . 
Who knows anything about anything ? said St . 
Clare , his eyes wandering dreamily , and speaking to himself . 
Do , do , dear Mas'r , believe it ! How do you know there's any Christ , Tom ! You never saw the Lord . 
I know it couldn't come from me , cause I 's a poor , complainin'cretur it comes from the Lord and I know He's willin' to do for Mas'r . 
Tom spoke with fast running tears and choking voice . 
Clare leaned his head on his shoulder , and wrung the hard , faithful , black hand . 
Tom , you love me , he said . 
I 's willin' to lay down my life , this blessed day , to see Mas'r a Christian . 
Poor , foolish boy ! said St . 
Clare , half raising himself . 
I'm not worth the love of one good , honest heart , like yours . 
O , Mas'r , dere's more than me loves you , the blessed Lord Jesus loves you . 
How do you know that Tom ? said St . 
Feels it in my soul . 
O , Mas'r ! the love of Christ , that passeth knowledge . 
Clare , turning away , that the story of a man that lived and died eighteen hundred years ago can affect people so yet . 
But he was no man , he added , suddenly . 
I wish Mas'r'd be so good as read it . 
Don't get no readin' , hardly , now Miss Eva's gone . 
The chapter was the eleventh of John , the touching account of the raising of Lazarus , St . 
Clare read it aloud , often pausing to wrestle down feelings which were roused by the pathos of the story . 
Tom knelt before him , with clasped hands , and with an absorbed expression of love , trust , adoration , on his quiet face . 
Tom , said his Master , this is all real to you ! I can jest fairly see it Mas'r , said Tom . 
I wish I had your eyes , Tom . 
Wouldn't it shake your faith some , Tom ? Not a grain , said Tom . 
Why , Tom , you must know I know the most . 
No , Tom , I was not . 
I don't disbelieve , and I think there is reason to believe and still I don't . 
It's a troublesome bad habit I've got , Tom . 
But come , Tom , you pray now , and show me how . 
Tom's heart was full he poured it out In prayer , like waters that have been long suppressed . 
One thing was plain enough Tom thought there was somebody to hear , whether there were or not . 
Clare felt himself borne , on the tide of his faith and feeling , almost to the gates of that heaven he seemed so vividly to conceive . 
It seemed to bring him nearer to Eva . 
Thank you , my boy , said St . 
Clare , when Tom rose . 
I like to hear you , Tom but go , now , and leave me alone some other time , I'll talk more . 
Tom silently left the room . 
CHAPTER XXVIII Reunion Week after week glided away in the St . 
Clare mansion , and the waves of life settled back to their usual flow , where that little bark had gone down . 
All the interests and hopes of St . 
Clare's life had unconsciously wound themselves around this child . 
He had one of those natures which could better and more clearly conceive of religious things from its own perceptions and instincts , than many a matter of fact and practical Christian . 
The gift to appreciate and the sense to feel the finer shades and relations of moral things , often seems an attribute of those whose whole life shows a careless disregard of them . 
Hence Moore , Byron , Goethe , often speak words more wisely descriptive of the true religious sentiment , than another man , whose whole life is governed by it . 
In such minds , disregard of religion is a more fearful treason , a more deadly sin . 
For , so inconsistent is human nature , especially in the ideal , that not to undertake a thing at all seems better than to undertake and come short . 
Clare was , in many respects , another man . 
Meantime , he attached himself to Tom more and more , every day . 
Nor would any one have wondered at it , who had seen the expression of affection and devotion with which Tom continually followed his young master . 
Well , Tom , said St . 
The sudden light of joy that shone in Tom's face as he raised his hands to heaven , his emphatic Bless the Lord ! rather discomposed St . 
Clare he did not like it that Tom should be so ready to leave him . 
You haven't had such very bad times here , that you need be in such a rapture , Tom , he said drily . 
No , no , Mas'r ! 'tan't that , it's bein' a freeman ! that's what I'm joyin' for . 
Why , Tom , don't you think , for your own part , you've been better off than to be free ? No , indeed , Mas'r St . 
Clare , said Tom , with a flash of energy . 
No , indeed ! Why , Tom , you couldn't possibly have earned , by your work , such clothes and such living as I have given you . 
Knows all that , Mas'r St . 
I suppose so , Tom , and you'll be going off and leaving me , in a month or so , he added , rather discontentedly . 
Though why you shouldn't , no mortal knows , he said , in a gayer tone and , getting up , he began to walk the floor . 
Not while Mas'r is in trouble , said Tom . 
I'll stay with Mas'r as long as he wants me , so as I can be any use . 
Not while I'm in trouble , Tom ? said St . 
Clare , looking sadly out of the window . 
And when will my trouble be over ? When Mas'r St . 
Clare's a Christian , said Tom . 
And you really mean to stay by till that day comes ? said St . 
Clare , half smiling , as he turned from the window , and laid his hand on Tom's shoulder . 
Ah , Tom , you soft , silly boy ! I won't keep you till that day . 
Go home to your wife and children , and give my love to all . 
I 's faith to believe that day will come , said Tom , earnestly , and with tears in his eyes the Lord has a work for Mas'r . 
A work , hey ? said St . 
Clare , well , now , Tom , give me your views on what sort of a work it is let's hear . 
Why , even a poor fellow like me has a work from the Lord and Mas'r St . 
We does for the Lord when we does for his critturs , said Tom . 
Good theology , Tom better than Dr . 
B. preaches , I dare swear , said St . 
The conversation was here interrupted by the announcement of some visitors . 
Poor old Mammy , in particular , whose heart , severed from all natural domestic ties , had consoled itself with this one beautiful being , was almost heart broken . 
Miss Ophelia felt the loss but , in her good and honest heart , it bore fruit unto everlasting life . 
Topsy did not become at once a saint but the life and death of Eva did work a marked change in her . 
The callous indifference was gone there was now sensibility , hope , desire , and the striving for good , a strife irregular , interrupted , suspended oft , but yet renewed again . 
One day , when Topsy had been sent for by Miss Ophelia , she came , hastily thrusting something into her bosom . 
The clamor and confusion of the battle drew Miss Ophelia and St . 
Clare both to the spot . 
She's been stealing ! said Rosa . 
I han't , neither ! vociferated Topsy , sobbing with passion . 
Give me that , whatever it is ! said Miss Ophelia , firmly . 
Topsy hesitated but , on a second order , pulled out of her bosom a little parcel done up in the foot of one of her own old stockings . 
Miss Ophelia turned it out . 
Clare was a good deal affected at the sight of it the little book had been rolled in a long strip of black crape , torn from the funeral weeds . 
What did you wrap this round the book for ? said St . 
Clare , holding up the crape . 
Cause , cause , cause 't was Miss Eva . 
O , don't take 'em away , please ! she said and , sitting flat down on the floor , and putting her apron over her head , she began to sob vehemently . 
It was a curious mixture of the pathetic and the ludicrous , the little old stockings , black crape , text book , fair , soft curl , and Topsy's utter distress . 
I really think you can make something of that concern , he said , pointing with his thumb backward over his shoulder . 
Any mind that is capable of a real sorrow is capable of good . 
You must try and do something with her . 
The child has improved greatly , said Miss Ophelia . 
But not legally I want her to be mine legally , said Miss Ophelia . 
Whew ! cousin , said Augustine . 
O , cousin , what an awful doing evil that good may come' ! I can't encourage it . 
I don't want you to joke , but to reason , said Miss Ophelia . 
Well , well , said St . 
Clare , I will and he sat down , and unfolded a newspaper to read . 
But I want it done now , said Miss Ophelia . 
What's your hurry ? Because now is the only time there ever is to do a thing in , said Miss Ophelia . 
Come , now , here's paper , pen , and ink just write a paper . 
Clare , like most men of his class of mind , cordially hated the present tense of action , generally and , therefore , he was considerably annoyed by Miss Ophelia's downrightness . 
Why , what's the matter ? said he . 
You may die , or fail , and then Topsy be hustled off to auction , spite of all I can do . 
Really , you are quite provident . 
Well , seeing I'm in the hands of a Yankee , there is nothing for it but to concede and St . 
There , isn't that black and white , now , Miss Vermont ? he said , as he handed it to her . 
Good boy , said Miss Ophelia , smiling . 
But must it not be witnessed ? O , bother ! yes . 
Here , he said , opening the door into Marie's apartment , Marie , Cousin wants your autograph just put your name down here . 
What's this ? said Marie , as she ran over the paper . 
There , now , she's yours , body and soul , said St . 
Clare , handing the paper . 
No more mine now than she was before , Miss Ophelia . 
Nobody but God has a right to give her to me but I can protect her now . 
Well , she's yours by a fiction of law , then , said St . 
Clare , as he turned back into the parlor , and sat down to his paper . 
Miss Ophelia , who seldom sat much in Marie's company , followed him into the parlor , having first carefully laid away the paper . 
Augustine , she said , suddenly , as she sat knitting , have you ever made any provision for your servants , in case of your death ? No , said St . 
Clare , as he read on . 
Then all your indulgence to them may prove a great cruelty , by and by . 
Clare had often thought the same thing himself but he answered , negligently . 
Well , I mean to make a provision , by and by . 
When ? said Miss Ophelia . 
O , one of these days . 
What if you should die first ? Cousin , what's the matter ? said St . 
Clare , laying down his paper and looking at her . 
Want me to read to you , Tom ? said St . 
Clare , seating himself carelessly by him . 
If Mas'r pleases , said Tom , gratefully , Mas'r makes it so much plainer . 
Clare took the book and glanced at the place , and began reading one of the passages which Tom had designated by the heavy marks around it . 
Clare read on in an animated voice , till he came to the last of the verses . 
Clare seemed struck with this last passage , for he read it twice , the second time slowly , and as if he were revolving the words in his mind . 
Clare was absent and thoughtful , all tea time . 
After tea , he and Marie and Miss Ophelia took possession of the parlor almost in silence . 
Marie disposed herself on a lounge , under a silken mosquito curtain , and was soon sound asleep . 
Miss Ophelia silently busied herself with her knitting . 
Clare sat down to the piano , and began playing a soft and melancholy movement with the AEolian accompaniment . 
He seemed in a deep reverie , and to be soliloquizing to himself by music . 
After a little , he opened one of the drawers , took out an old music book whose leaves were yellow with age , and began turning it over . 
There , he said to Miss Ophelia , this was one of my mother's books , and here is her handwriting , come and look at it . 
She copied and arranged this from Mozart's Requiem . 
It was something she used to sing often , said St . 
I think I can hear her now . 
He struck a few majestic chords , and began singing that grand old Latin piece , the Dies Irae . 
Tom , who was listening in the outer verandah , was drawn by the sound to the very door , where he stood earnestly . 
He did not understand the words , of course but the music and manner of singing appeared to affect him strongly , especially when St . 
Clare sang the more pathetic parts . 
Clare threw a deep and pathetic expression into the words for the shadowy veil of years seemed drawn away , and he seemed to hear his mother's voice leading his . 
Voice and instrument seemed both living , and threw out with vivid sympathy those strains which the ethereal Mozart first conceived as his own dying requiem . 
Clare had done singing , he sat leaning his head upon his hand a few moments , and then began walking up and down the floor . 
It is a fearful one to us , said Miss Ophelia . 
It ought to be to me , I suppose , said St . 
I was reading to Tom , this afternoon , that chapter in Matthew that gives an account of it , and I have been quite struck with it . 
Perhaps , said Miss Ophelia , it is impossible for a person who does no good not to do harm . 
And what , said St . 
Always practical and to the point ! said St . 
Clare , his face breaking out into a smile . 
You never leave me any time for general reflections , Cousin you always bring me short up against the actual present you have a kind of eternal now , always in your mind . 
Now is all the time I have anything to do with , said Miss Ophelia . 
Dear little Eva , poor child ! said St . 
Clare , she had set her little simple soul on a good work for me . 
It was the first time since Eva's death that he had ever said as many words as these to her , and he spoke now evidently repressing very strong feeling . 
One can see , you know , very easily , how others ought to be martyrs . 
Well , are you going to do differently now ? said Miss Ophelia . 
God only knows the future , said St . 
I am braver than I was , because I have lost all and he who has nothing to lose can afford all risks . 
And what are you going to do ? My duty , I hope , to the poor and lowly , as fast as I find it out , said St . 
Do you suppose it possible that a nation ever will voluntarily emancipate ? said Miss Ophelia . 
I don't know , said St . 
This is a day of great deeds . 
Heroism and disinterestedness are rising up , here and there , in the earth . 
I hardly think so , said Miss Ophelia . 
You see , Cousin , I want justice done us . 
We are in a bad position . 
We are the more obvious oppressors of the negro but the unchristian prejudice of the north is an oppressor almost equally severe . 
It would certainly be a greater self denial to receive heathen among us , than to send missionaries to them but I think we would do it . 
You would I know , said St . 
I'd like to see anything you wouldn't do , if you thought it your duty ! Well , I'm not uncommonly good , said Miss Ophelia . 
Others would , if they saw things as I do . 
I intend to take Topsy home , when I go . 
I suppose our folks will wonder , at first but I think they will be brought to see as I do . 
Besides , I know there are many people at the north who do exactly what you said . 
Yes , but they are a minority and , if we should begin to emancipate to any extent , we should soon hear from you . 
Miss Ophelia did not reply . 
There was a pause of some moments and St . 
Clare's countenance was overcast by a sad , dreamy expression . 
I don't know what makes me think of my mother so much , tonight , he said . 
I have a strange kind of feeling , as if she were near me . 
I keep thinking of things she used to say . 
Strange , what brings these past things so vividly back to us , sometimes ! St . 
Clare walked up and down the room for some minutes more , and then said , I believe I'll go down street , a few moments , and hear the news , tonight . 
He took his hat , and passed out . 
Tom followed him to the passage , out of the court , and asked if he should attend him . 
No , my boy , said St . 
I shall be back in an hour . 
Tom sat down in the verandah . 
It was a beautiful moonlight evening , and he sat watching the rising and falling spray of the fountain , and listening to its murmur . 
Tom thought of his home , and that he should soon be a free man , and able to return to it at will . 
He thought how he should work to buy his wife and boys . 
He hastened to undo it and , with smothered voices and heavy tread , came several men , bringing a body , wrapped in a cloak , and lying on a shutter . 
Clare had turned into a cafe , to look over an evening paper . 
As he was reading , an affray arose between two gentlemen in the room , who were both partially intoxicated . 
Clare and one or two others made an effort to separate them , and St . 
Clare received a fatal stab in the side with a bowie knife , which he was attempting to wrest from one of them . 
The house was full of cries and lamentations , shrieks and screams , servants frantically tearing their hair , throwing themselves on the ground , or running distractedly about , lamenting . 
Tom and Miss Ophelia alone seemed to have any presence of mind for Marie was in strong hysteric convulsions . 
At Miss Ophelia's direction , one of the lounges in the parlor was hastily prepared , and the bleeding form laid upon it . 
The physician now arrived , and made his examination . 
Now , said the physician , we must turn all these creatures out all depends on his being kept quiet . 
Clare opened his eyes , and looked fixedly on the distressed beings , whom Miss Ophelia and the doctor were trying to urge from the apartment . 
Poor creatures ! he said , and an expression of bitter self reproach passed over his face . 
Adolph absolutely refused to go . 
Terror had deprived him of all presence of mind he threw himself along the floor , and nothing could persuade him to rise . 
The rest yielded to Miss Ophelia's urgent representations , that their master's safety depended on their stillness and obedience . 
Clare could say but little he lay with his eyes shut , but it was evident that he wrestled with bitter thoughts . 
After a while , he laid his hand on Tom's , who was kneeling beside him , and said , Tom ! poor fellow ! What , Mas'r ? said Tom , earnestly . 
I am dying ! said St . 
Clare , pressing his hand pray ! If you would like a clergyman said the physician . 
It was literally prayer offered with strong crying and tears . 
When Tom ceased to speak , St . 
Clare reached out and took his hand , looking earnestly at him , but saying nothing . 
He closed his eyes , but still retained his hold for , in the gates of eternity , the black hand and the white hold each other with an equal clasp . 
He murmured softly to himself , at broken intervals , Recordare Jesu pie Ne me perdas illa die Querens me sedisti lassus . 
It was evident that the words he had been singing that evening were passing through his mind , words of entreaty addressed to Infinite Pity . 
His lips moved at intervals , as parts of the hymn fell brokenly from them . 
His mind is wandering , said the doctor . 
No ! it is coming HOME , at last ! said St . 
Clare , energetically at last ! at last ! The effort of speaking exhausted him . 
So he lay for a few moments . 
They saw that the mighty hand was on him . 
The law regards him , in every respect , as devoid of rights as a bale of merchandise . 
The number of those men who know how to use wholly irresponsible power humanely and generously is small . 
Therefore is it that the wail over a kind master is loud and long , as well it may be . 
Clare breathed his last , terror and consternation took hold of all his household . 
He had been stricken down so in a moment , in the flower and strength of his youth ! Every room and gallery of the house resounded with sobs and shrieks of despair . 
When they were arranging him for his last rest , they found upon his bosom a small , plain miniature case , opening with a spring . 
It was the miniature of a noble and beautiful female face and on the reverse , under a crystal , a lock of dark hair . 
Tom hoped and trusted , and was at peace . 
It rose to Miss Ophelia , who began to turn her thoughts towards her northern home . 
It rose , in silent terrors , to the minds of the servants , who well knew the unfeeling , tyrannical character of the mistress in whose hands they were left . 
It was about a fortnight after the funeral , that Miss Ophelia , busied one day in her apartment , heard a gentle tap at the door . 
She opened it , and there stood Rosa , the pretty young quadroon , whom we have before often noticed , her hair in disorder , and her eyes swelled with crying . 
It was an order , written in Marie's delicate Italian hand , to the master of a whipping establishment to give the bearer fifteen lashes . 
What have you been doing ? said Miss Ophelia . 
You know , Miss Feely , I've got such a bad temper it's very bad of me . 
I'd rather she'd kill me , right out . 
Miss Ophelia stood considering , with the paper in her hand . 
She had known it before but hitherto she had never realized it , till she saw the slender form of Rosa almost convulsed with distress . 
Shameful ! monstrous ! outrageous ! she said to herself , as she was crossing the parlor . 
She found Marie sitting up in her easy chair , with Mammy standing by her , combing her hair Jane sat on the ground before her , busy in chafing her feet . 
How do you find yourself , today ? said Miss Ophelia . 
I came , said Miss Ophelia , with a short , dry cough , such as commonly introduces a difficult subject , I came to speak with you about poor Rosa . 
Cruelty , I'd like to know what the cruelty is ! I wrote orders for only fifteen lashes , and told him to put them on lightly . 
I'm sure there's no cruelty there ! No cruelty ! said Miss Ophelia . 
Once let them feel that they are to take any airs about delicacy , and all that , and they'll run all over you , just as my servants always have . 
Jane hung her head and cowered at this , for she felt as if it was particularly directed to her . 
Miss Ophelia sat for a moment , as if she had swallowed some explosive mixture , and were ready to burst . 
Then , recollecting the utter uselessness of contention with such a nature , she shut her lips resolutely , gathered herself up , and walked out of the room . 
Adolph knew that he had always been an object of dislike to Marie but while his master lived he had paid but little attention to it . 
Now that he was gone , he had moved about in daily dread and trembling , not knowing what might befall him next . 
Marie had held several consultations with her lawyer after communicating with St . 
Do ye know , Tom , that we've all got to be sold ? said Adolph , and go back to her father's plantation . 
How did you hear that ? said Tom . 
I hid myself behind the curtains when Missis was talking with the lawyer . 
In a few days we shall be sent off to auction , Tom . 
The Lord's will be done ! said Tom , folding his arms and sighing heavily . 
We'll never get another such a master , said Adolph , apprehensively but I'd rather be sold than take my chance under Missis . 
Tom turned away his heart was full . 
He drew his arms tightly over his bosom , and choked back the bitter tears , and tried to pray . 
He sought Miss Ophelia , who , ever since Eva's death , had treated him with marked and respectful kindness . 
Miss Feely , he said , Mas'r St . 
Clare promised me my freedom . 
I'll speak for you , Tom , and do my best , said Miss Ophelia but , if it depends on Mrs. St . 
Clare , I can't hope much for you nevertheless , I will try . 
This incident occurred a few days after that of Rosa , while Miss Ophelia was busied in preparations to return north . 
That will do , said Marie , selecting one only I'm not sure about its being properly mourning . 
It's a matter of custom , I suppose , said Miss Ophelia . 
Are you going so soon ? Yes . 
Clare's brother has written , and he and the lawyer think that the servants and furniture had better be put up at auction , and the place left with our lawyer . 
There's one thing I wanted to speak with you about , said Miss Ophelia . 
Augustine promised Tom his liberty , and began the legal forms necessary to it . 
I hope you will use your influence to have it perfected . 
Indeed , I shall do no such thing ! said Marie , sharply . 
Tom is one of the most valuable servants on the place , it couldn't be afforded , any way . 
Besides , what does he want of liberty ? He's a great deal better off as he is . 
But he does desire it , very earnestly , and his master promised it , said Miss Ophelia . 
I dare say he does want it , said Marie they all want it , just because they are a discontented set , always wanting what they haven't got . 
Now , I'm principled against emancipating , in any case . 
It's no favor to set them free . 
But Tom is so steady , industrious , and pious . 
O , you needn't tell me ! I've see a hundred like him . 
He'll do very well , as long as he's taken care of , that's all . 
But , then , consider , said Miss Ophelia , when you set him up for sale , the chances of his getting a bad master . 
I don't feel any fears on that head . 
Marie had her face covered with her handkerchief at this appeal , and began sobbing and using her smelting bottle , with great vehemence . 
Everybody goes against me ! she said . 
And , in the general confusion that ensued , Miss Ophelia made her escape to her apartment . 
CHAPTER XXX The Slave Warehouse A slave warehouse ! Perhaps some of my readers conjure up horrible visions of such a place . 
They fancy some foul , obscure den , some horrible Tartarus informis , ingens , cui lumen ademptum . 
But no , innocent friend in these days men have learned the art of sinning expertly and genteelly , so as not to shock the eyes and senses of respectable society . 
It was a day or two after the conversation between Marie and Miss Ophelia , that Tom , Adolph , and about half a dozen others of the St . 
Clare estate , were turned over to the loving kindness of Mr. Skeggs , the keeper of a depot on street , to await the auction , next day . 
Tom had with him quite a sizable trunk full of clothing , as had most others of them . 
Ah , ha ! that's right . 
Go it , boys , go it ! said Mr. Skeggs , the keeper . 
The dealers in the human article make scrupulous and systematic efforts to promote noisy mirth among them , as a means of drowning reflection , and rendering them insensible to their condition . 
The slave dealer collects his gang in Virginia or Kentucky , and drives them to some convenient , healthy place , often a watering place , to be fattened . 
What dat ar nigger doin here ? said Sambo , coming up to Tom , after Mr. Skeggs had left the room . 
Sambo was a full black , of great size , very lively , voluble , and full of trick and grimace . 
What you doin here ? said Sambo , coming up to Tom , and poking him facetiously in the side . 
Meditatin' , eh ? I am to be sold at the auction , tomorrow ! said Tom , quietly . 
Please to let me alone ! said Adolph , fiercely , straightening himself up , with extreme disgust . 
Law , now , boys ! dis yer's one o' yer white niggers , kind o' cream color , ye know , scented ! said he , coming up to Adolph and snuffing . 
Lor , now , how touchy we is , we white niggers ! Look at us now ! and Sambo gave a ludicrous imitation of Adolph's manner here's de airs and graces . 
We's been in a good family , I specs . 
Clare family , said Adolph , proudly . 
Lor , you did ! Be hanged if they ar'n't lucky to get shet of ye . 
Spects they's gwine to trade ye off with a lot o' cracked tea pots and sich like ! said Sambo , with a provoking grin . 
Adolph , enraged at this taunt , flew furiously at his adversary , swearing and striking on every side of him . 
The rest laughed and shouted , and the uproar brought the keeper to the door . 
What now , boys ? Order , order ! he said , coming in and flourishing a large whip . 
While this scene was going on in the men's sleeping room , the reader may be curious to take a peep at the corresponding apartment allotted to the women . 
Here is a fine bright girl , of ten years , whose mother was sold out yesterday , and who tonight cried herself to sleep when nobody was looking at her . 
But , in a corner , sitting apart from the rest , are two females of a more interesting appearance than common . 
One of these is a respectably dressed mulatto woman between forty and fifty , with soft eyes and a gentle and pleasing physiognomy . 
By her side , and nestling closely to her , is a young girl of fifteen , her daughter . 
She is a quadroon , as may be seen from her fairer complexion , though her likeness to her mother is quite discernible . 
She has the same soft , dark eye , with longer lashes , and her curling hair is of a luxuriant brown . 
She also is dressed with great neatness , and her white , delicate hands betray very little acquaintance with servile toil . 
These two are to be sold tomorrow , in the same lot with the St . 
But the only son of their protectress had the management of her property and , by carelessness and extravagance involved it to a large amount , and at last failed . 
One of the largest creditors was the respectable firm of B. Co . 
, and wrote word to that effect to New York . 
Brother B. , being , as we have said , a Christian man , and a resident in a free State , felt some uneasiness on the subject . 
Both are weeping , but each quietly , that the other may not hear . 
Mother , just lay your head on my lap , and see if you can't sleep a little , says the girl , trying to appear calm . 
Why , mother , the man said we were both likely , and would sell well . 
Susan remembered the man's looks and words . 
With a deadly sickness at her heart , she remembered how he had looked at Emmeline's hands , and lifted up her curly hair , and pronounced her a first rate article . 
Mother , I think we might do first rate , if you could get a place as cook , and I as chambermaid or seamstress , in some family . 
I dare say we shall . 
Let's both look as bright and lively as we can , and tell all we can do , and perhaps we shall , said Emmeline . 
I want you to brush your hair all back straight , tomorrow , said Susan . 
What for , mother ? I don't look near so well , that way . 
Yes , but you'll sell better so . 
I don't see why ! said the child . 
Respectable families would be more apt to buy you , if they saw you looked plain and decent , as if you wasn't trying to look handsome . 
I know their ways better 'n you do , said Susan . 
Well , mother , then I will . 
It seems almost an aggravation to her to remember how purely and piously , how much above the ordinary lot , she has been brought up . 
The soft , earnest , quiet moonbeam looks in fixedly , marking the bars of the grated windows on the prostrate , sleeping forms . 
She is dead and gone to Heaven She is dead and gone to Heaven 'Rived in the goodly land . 
They are dead and gone to Heaven They are dead and gone to Heaven 'Rived in the goodly land . 
Mr. Skeggs , with his palmetto on and his cigar in his mouth , walks around to put farewell touches on his wares . 
How's this ? he said , stepping in front of Susan and Emmeline . 
Them curls may make a hundred dollars difference in the sale of her . 
Beneath a splendid dome were men of all nations , moving to and fro , over the marble pave . 
On every side of the circular area were little tribunes , or stations , for the use of speakers and auctioneers . 
A third one , on the other side , still unoccupied , was surrounded by a group , waiting the moment of sale to begin . 
And here we may recognize the St . 
Clare servants , Tom , Adolph , and others and there , too , Susan and Emmeline , awaiting their turn with anxious and dejected faces . 
Hulloa , Alf ! what brings you here ? said a young exquisite , slapping the shoulder of a sprucely dressed young man , who was examining Adolph through an eye glass . 
Well ! I was wanting a valet , and I heard that St . 
I thought I'd just look at his Catch me ever buying any of St . 
Clare's people ! Spoilt niggers , every one . 
Impudent as the devil ! said the other . 
Never fear that ! said the first . 
If I get 'em , I'll soon have their airs out of them they'll soon find that they've another kind of master to deal with than Monsieur St . 
'Pon my word , I'll buy that fellow . 
I like the shape of him . 
You'll find it'll take all you've got to keep him . 
He's deucedly extravagant ! Yes , but my lord will find that he can't be extravagant with me . 
I buy him , that's flat ! Tom had been standing wistfully examining the multitude of faces thronging around him , for one whom he would wish to call master . 
From the moment that Tom saw him approaching , he felt an immediate and revolting horror at him , that increased as he came near . 
He was evidently , though short , of gigantic strength . 
This man proceeded to a very free personal examination of the lot . 
Where was you raised ? he added , briefly , to these investigations . 
In Kintuck , Mas'r , said Tom , looking about , as if for deliverance . 
What have you done ? Had care of Mas'r's farm , said Tom . 
Likely story ! said the other , shortly , as he passed on . 
He paused a moment before Dolph then spitting a discharge of tobacco juice on his well blacked boots , and giving a contemptuous umph , he walked on . 
Again he stopped before Susan and Emmeline . 
The girl was frightened , and began to cry . 
Stop that , you minx ! said the salesman no whimpering here , the sale is going to begin . 
And accordingly the sale begun . 
Adolph was knocked off , at a good sum , to the young gentlemen who had previously stated his intention of buying him and the other servants of the St . 
Clare lot went to various bidders . 
Now , up with you , boy ! d'ye hear ? said the auctioneer to Tom . 
Down goes the hammer again , Susan is sold ! She goes down from the block , stops , looks wistfully back , her daughter stretches her hands towards her . 
She looks with agony in the face of the man who has bought her , a respectable middle aged man , of benevolent countenance . 
The auctioneer sees his advantage , and expatiates volubly in mingled French and English , and bids rise in rapid succession . 
I'll do anything in reason , said the benevolent looking gentleman , pressing in and joining with the bids . 
In a few moments they have run beyond his purse . 
He is silent the auctioneer grows warmer but bids gradually drop off . 
It lies now between an aristocratic old citizen and our bullet headed acquaintance . 
She is pushed along into the same lot with Tom and two other men , and goes off , weeping as she goes . 
and he walks off , with his acquisition , in another direction . 
Two days after , the lawyer of the Christian firm of B. Co . 
, New York , send on their money to them . 
All had faded from his sky , moon and star all had passed by him , as the trees and banks were now passing , to return no more . 
Kentucky home , with wife and children , and indulgent owners St . 
Having got them fairly on board , and the boat being off , he came round , with that air of efficiency which ever characterized him , to take a review of them . 
Stopping opposite to Tom , who had been attired for sale in his best broadcloth suit , with well starched linen and shining boots , he briefly expressed himself as follows Stand up . 
Tom obeyed , and in a few moments returned . 
Take off your boots , said Mr. Legree . 
There , said the former , throwing him a pair of coarse , stout shoes , such as were common among the slaves , put these on . 
In Tom's hurried exchange , he had not forgotten to transfer his cherished Bible to his pocket . 
It was well he did so for Mr. Legree , having refitted Tom's handcuffs , proceeded deliberately to investigate the contents of his pockets . 
He drew out a silk handkerchief , and put it into his own pocket . 
Several little trifles , which Tom had treasured , chiefly because they had amused Eva , he looked upon with a contemptuous grunt , and tossed them over his shoulder into the river . 
Tom's Methodist hymn book , which , in his hurry , he had forgotten , he now held up and turned over . 
Humph ! pious , to be sure . 
So , what's yer name , you belong to the church , eh ? Yes , Mas'r , said Tom , firmly . 
Well , I'll soon have that out of you . 
I have none o' yer bawling , praying , singing niggers on my place so remember . 
I have called thee by name . 
Thou art MINE ! But Simon Legree heard no voice . 
That voice is one he never shall hear . 
He only glared for a moment on the downcast face of Tom , and walked off . 
He took Tom's trunk , which contained a very neat and abundant wardrobe , to the forecastle , where it was soon surrounded by various hands of the boat . 
This little affair being over , Simon sauntered up again to his property . 
Now , Tom , I've relieved you of any extra baggage , you see . 
Take mighty good care of them clothes . 
It'll be long enough 'fore you get more . 
I go in for making niggers careful one suit has to do for one year , on my place . 
Simon next walked up to the place where Emmeline was sitting , chained to another woman . 
Well , my dear , he said , chucking her under the chin , keep up your spirits . 
The involuntary look of horror , fright and aversion , with which the girl regarded him , did not escape his eye . 
As by a fascination , every eye was now directed to the glaring greenish gray eye of Simon . 
Look at these yer bones ! Well , I tell ye this yer fist has got as hard as iron knocking down niggers . 
I don't keep none o' yer cussed overseers I does my own overseeing and I tell you things is seen to . 
You's every one on ye got to toe the mark , I tell ye quick , straight , the moment I speak . 
That's the way to keep in with me . 
Ye won't find no soft spot in me , nowhere . 
So , now , mind yerselves for I don't show no mercy ! The women involuntarily drew in their breath , and the whole gang sat with downcast , dejected faces . 
Meanwhile , Simon turned on his heel , and marched up to the bar of the boat for a dram . 
That's the way I begin with my niggers , he said , to a gentlemanly man , who had stood by him during his speech . 
It's my system to begin strong , just let 'em know what to expect . 
Indeed ! said the stranger , looking upon him with the curiosity of a naturalist studying some out of the way specimen . 
Tell ye , sir , the flesh on 't has come jest like a stone , practising on nigger feel on it . 
Why , yes , I may say so , said Simon , with a hearty laugh . 
I reckon there's as little soft in me as in any one going . 
Tell you , nobody comes it over me ! Niggers never gets round me , neither with squalling nor soft soap , that's a fact . 
You have a fine lot there . 
There's that Tom , they telled me he was suthin' uncommon . 
I rayther think she's sickly , but I shall put her through for what she's worth she may last a year or two . 
I don't go for savin' niggers . 
Use up , and buy more , 's my way makes you less trouble , and I'm quite sure it comes cheaper in the end and Simon sipped his glass . 
And how long do they generally last ? said the stranger . 
Well , donno 'cordin' as their constitution is . 
Stout fellers last six or seven years trashy ones gets worked up in two or three . 
Law , 't wasn't no sort o' use I lost money on 'em , and 't was heaps o' trouble . 
Now , you see , I just put 'em straight through , sick or well . 
When one nigger's dead , I buy another and I find it comes cheaper and easier , every way . 
The stranger turned away , and seated himself beside a gentleman , who had been listening to the conversation with repressed uneasiness . 
You must not take that fellow to be any specimen of Southern planters , said he . 
I should hope not , said the young gentleman , with emphasis . 
He is a mean , low , brutal fellow ! said the other . 
Well , said the other , there are also many considerate and humane men among planters . 
It is your respectability and humanity that licenses and protects his brutality . 
You had better wait till I get up to my plantation , and there you may abuse us all , quite at your leisure . 
The young gentleman colored and smiled , and the two were soon busy in a game of backgammon . 
Meanwhile , another conversation was going on in the lower part of the boat , between Emmeline and the mulatto woman with whom she was confined . 
As was natural , they were exchanging with each other some particulars of their history . 
Who did you belong to ? said Emmeline . 
Well , my Mas'r was Mr. Ellis , lived on Levee street . 
P'raps you've seen the house . 
Was he good to you ? said Emmeline . 
Mostly , till he tuk sick . 
He's lain sick , off and on , more than six months , and been orful oneasy . 
'Pears like he warnt willin' to have nobody rest , day or night and got so curous , there couldn't nobody suit him . 
Had you any friends ? said Emmeline . 
Yes , my husband , he's a blacksmith . 
Mas'r gen'ly hired him out . 
They took me off so quick , I didn't even have time to see him and I's got four children . 
O , dear me ! said the woman , covering her face with her hands . 
It is a natural impulse , in every one , when they hear a tale of distress , to think of something to say by way of consolation . 
Emmeline wanted to say something , but she could not think of anything to say . 
What was there to be said ? As by a common consent , they both avoided , with fear and dread , all mention of the horrible man who was now their master . 
True , there is religious trust for even the darkest hour . 
The mulatto woman was a member of the Methodist church , and had an unenlightened but very sincere spirit of piety . 
At last the boat stopped at a small town , and Legree , with his party , disembarked . 
CHAPTER XXXII Dark Places The dark places of the earth are full of the habitations Of cruelty . 
Trailing wearily behind a rude wagon , and over a ruder road , Tom and his associates faced onward . 
Simon rode on , however , apparently well pleased , occasionally pulling away at a flask of spirit , which he kept in his pocket . 
I say , you ! he said , as he turned back and caught a glance at the dispirited faces behind him . 
Tom began a Methodist hymn . 
He only heard the boys singing noisily , and was well pleased he was making them keep up their spirits . 
The expression of his eyes made her soul sick , and her flesh creep . 
Involuntarily she clung closer to the mulatto woman by her side , as if she were her mother . 
You didn't ever wear ear rings , he said , taking hold of her small ear with his coarse fingers . 
No , Mas'r ! said Emmeline , trembling and looking down . 
Well , I'll give you a pair , when we get home , if you're a good girl . 
You needn't be so frightened I don't mean to make you work very hard . 
You'll have fine times with me , and live like a lady , only be a good girl . 
Legree had been drinking to that degree that he was inclining to be very gracious and it was about this time that the enclosures of the plantation rose to view . 
The estate had formerly belonged to a gentleman of opulence and taste , who had bestowed some considerable attention to the adornment of his grounds . 
Having died insolvent , it had been purchased , at a bargain , by Legree , who used it , as he did everything else , merely as an implement for money making . 
The place had that ragged , forlorn appearance , which is always produced by the evidence that the care of the former owner has been left to go to utter decay . 
Here and there , a mildewed jessamine or honeysuckle hung raggedly from some ornamental support , which had been pushed to one side by being used as a horse post . 
What once was a large garden was now all grown over with weeds , through which , here and there , some solitary exotic reared its forsaken head . 
The house had been large and handsome . 
Ye see what ye'd get ! said Legree , caressing the dogs with grim satisfaction , and turning to Tom and his companions . 
Ye see what ye'd get , if ye try to run off . 
These yer dogs has been raised to track niggers and they'd jest as soon chaw one on ye up as eat their supper . 
So , mind yerself ! How now , Sambo ! he said , to a ragged fellow , without any brim to his hat , who was officious in his attentions . 
How have things been going ? Fust rate , Mas'r . 
This is simply saying that the negro mind has been more crushed and debased than the white . 
It is no more true of this race than of every oppressed race , the world over . 
The slave is always a tyrant , if he can get a chance to be one . 
Legree , like some potentates we read of in history , governed his plantation by a sort of resolution of forces . 
As they stood there now by Legree , they seemed an apt illustration of the fact that brutal men are lower even than animals . 
The woman gave a start , and drawing back , said , suddenly , O , Mas'r ! I left my old man in New Orleans . 
What of that , you won't you want one here ? None o' your words , go long ! said Legree , raising his whip . 
Come , mistress , he said to Emmeline , you go in here with me . 
The quarters was a little sort of street of rude shanties , in a row , in a part of the plantation , far off from the house . 
They had a forlorn , brutal , forsaken air . 
Tom's heart sunk when he saw them . 
Which of these will be mine ? said he , to Sambo , submissively . 
True , says the negligent lounger picking cotton isn't hard work . 
Tom looked in vain among the gang , as they poured along , for companionable faces . 
Ho yo ! said Sambo , coming to the mulatto woman , and throwing down a bag of corn before her what a cuss yo name ? Lucy , said the woman . 
Wal , Lucy , yo my woman now . 
Ye may kill me , if ye choose , the sooner the better ! Wish't I was dead ! said she . 
And , I'll tell him ye won't let the women come to the mills , yo old nigger ! said Sambo . 
Yo jes keep to yo own row . 
Tom was hungry with his day's journey , and almost faint for want of food . 
What's that ? said one of the woman . 
A Bible , said Tom . 
Good Lord ! han't seen un since I was in Kentuck . 
Was you raised in Kentuck ? said Tom , with interest . 
Yes , and well raised , too never 'spected to come to dis yer ! said the woman , sighing . 
What's dat ar book , any way ? said the other woman . 
Laws a me ! what's dat ? said the woman . 
Do tell ! you never hearn on 't ? said the other woman . 
I used to har Missis a readin' on 't , sometimes , in Kentuck but , laws o' me ! we don't har nothin' here but crackin' and swarin' . 
Read a piece , anyways ! said the first woman , curiously , seeing Tom attentively poring over it . 
Tom read , Come unto Me , all ye that labor and are heavy laden , and I will give you rest . 
Them's good words , enough , said the woman who says 'em ? The Lord , said Tom . 
I jest wish I know'd whar to find Him , said the woman . 
I would go 'pears like I never should get rested again . 
If I knew whar de Lor was , I'd tell him . 
He's here , he's everywhere , said Tom . 
Lor , you an't gwine to make me believe dat ar ! I know de Lord an't here , said the woman 'tan't no use talking , though . 
I's jest gwine to camp down , and sleep while I ken . 
The women went off to their cabins , and Tom sat alone , by the smouldering fire , that flickered up redly in his face . 
Was it a dream ? Let it pass for one . 
It took but a short time to familiarize Tom with all that was to be hoped or feared in his new way of life . 
He was an expert and efficient workman in whatever he undertook and was , both from habit and principle , prompt and faithful . 
Quiet and peaceable in his disposition , he hoped , by unremitting diligence , to avert from himself at least a portion of the evils of his condition . 
Legree took a silent note of Tom's availability . 
He rated him as a first class hand and yet he felt a secret dislike to him , the native antipathy of bad to good . 
Tom in various ways manifested a tenderness of feeling , a commiseration for his fellow sufferers , strange and new to them , which was watched with a jealous eye by Legree . 
One morning , when the hands were mustered for the field , Tom noticed , with surprise , a new comer among them , whose appearance excited his attention . 
It was a woman , tall and slenderly formed , with remarkably delicate hands and feet , and dressed in neat and respectable garments . 
Her forehead was high , and her eyebrows marked with beautiful clearness . 
Her complexion was sallow and unhealthy , her cheeks thin , her features sharp , and her whole form emaciated . 
But her eye was the most remarkable feature , so large , so heavily black , overshadowed by long lashes of equal darkness , and so wildly , mournfully despairing . 
Where she came from , or who she was , Tom did not know . 
The first he did know , she was walking by his side , erect and proud , in the dim gray of the dawn . 
Got to come to it , at last , grad of it ! said one . 
The woman took no notice of these taunts , but walked on , with the same expression of angry scorn , as if she heard nothing . 
The women neither looked at him nor spoke to him , though , all the way to the field , she kept close at his side . 
Tom was soon busy at his work but , as the woman was at no great distance from him , he often glanced an eye to her , at her work . 
He saw , at a glance , that a native adroitness and handiness made the task to her an easier one than it proved to many . 
In the course of the day , Tom was working near the mulatto woman who had been bought in the same lot with himself . 
She was evidently in a condition of great suffering , and Tom often heard her praying , as she wavered and trembled , and seemed about to fall down . 
Tom silently as he came near to her , transferred several handfuls of cotton from his own sack to hers . 
O , don't , don't ! said the woman , looking surprised it'll get you into trouble . 
Just then Sambo came up . 
Tom silently resumed his task but the woman , before at the last point of exhaustion , fainted . 
I'll bring her to ! said the driver , with a brutal grin . 
I'll give her something better than camphire ! and , taking a pin from his coat sleeve , he buried it to the head in her flesh . 
The woman groaned , and half rose . 
O , you mustn't ! you donno what they'll do to ye ! said the woman . 
I can bar it ! said Tom , better 'n you and he was at his place again . 
It passed in a moment . 
You know nothing about this place , she said , or you wouldn't have done that . 
The Lord never visits these parts , said the woman , bitterly , as she went nimbly forward with her work and again the scornful smile curled her lips . 
But the action of the woman had been seen by the driver , across the field and , flourishing his whip , he came up to her . 
Didn't mean no harm , Misse Cassy ! Keep your distance , then ! said the woman . 
And , in truth , the man seemed greatly inclined to attend to something at the other end of the field , and started off in quick time . 
The woman suddenly turned to her work , and labored with a despatch that was perfectly astonishing to Tom . 
She seemed to work by magic . 
Before the day was through , her basket was filled , crowded down , and piled , and she had several times put largely into Tom's . 
Long after dusk , the whole weary train , with their baskets on their heads , defiled up to the building appropriated to the storing and weighing the cotton . 
Legree was there , busily conversing with the two drivers . 
Dat ar Tom's gwine to make a powerful deal o' trouble kept a puttin' into Lucy's basket . 
One o' these yer dat will get all der niggers to feelin' bused , if Masir don't watch him ! said Sambo . 
Hey dey ! The black cuss ! said Legree . 
He'll have to get a breakin' in , won't he , boys ? Both negroes grinned a horrid grin , at this intimation . 
Ay , ay ! Let Mas'r Legree alone , for breakin' in ! De debil heself couldn't beat Mas'r at dat ! said Quimbo . 
Wal , boys , the best way is to give him the flogging to do , till he gets over his notions . 
Now , dar's Lucy , de aggravatinest , ugliest wench on de place ! pursued Sambo . 
Take care , Sam I shall begin to think what's the reason for your spite agin Lucy . 
Well , Mas'r knows she sot herself up agin Mas'r , and wouldn't have me , when he telled her to . 
I'd a flogged her into 't , said Legree , spitting , only there's such a press o' work , it don't seem wuth a while to upset her jist now . 
He did , eh ! Wal , then , Tom shall have the pleasure of flogging her . 
It'll be a good practice for him , and he won't put it on to the gal like you devils , neither . 
Wal , but , Mas'r , Tom and Misse Cassy , and dey among 'em , filled Lucy's basket . 
I ruther guess der weight 's in it , Mas'r ! I do the weighing ! said Legree , emphatically . 
Both the drivers again laughed their diabolical laugh . 
So ! he added , Misse Cassy did her day's work . 
Slowly the weary , dispirited creatures , wound their way into the room , and , with crouching reluctance , presented their baskets to be weighed . 
Legree noted on a slate , on the side of which was pasted a list of names , the amount . 
Tom's basket was weighed and approved and he looked , with an anxious glance , for the success of the woman he had befriended . 
Tottering with weakness , she came forward , and delivered her basket . 
The person who had been called Misse Cassy now came forward , and , with a haughty , negligent air , delivered her basket . 
As she delivered it , Legree looked in her eyes with a sneering yet inquiring glance . 
She fixed her black eyes steadily on him , her lips moved slightly , and she said something in French . 
And now , said Legree , come here , you Tom . 
Now , ye jest take this yer gal and flog her ye've seen enough on't to know how . 
I beg Mas'r's pardon , said Tom hopes Mas'r won't set me at that . 
It's what I an't used to , never did , and can't do , no way possible . 
The poor woman screamed with apprehension , and all rose , as by a general impulse , while they dragged him unresisting from the place . 
CHAPTER XXXIV The Quadroon's Story And behold the tears of such as are oppressed and on the side of their oppressors there was power . 
Wherefore I praised the dead that are already dead more than the living that are yet alive . 
O , good Lord ! Do look down , give me the victory ! give me the victory over all ! prayed poor Tom , in his anguish . 
A footstep entered the room , behind him , and the light of a lantern flashed on his eyes . 
Another and another cup were drained , with feverish eagerness . 
Drink all ye want , she said I knew how it would be . 
It isn't the first time I've been out in the night , carrying water to such as you . 
Thank you , Missis , said Tom , when he had done drinking . 
Stiff with wounds and bruises , Tom was a long time in accomplishing this movement but , when done , he felt a sensible relief from the cooling application to his wounds . 
Now , said the woman , when she had raised his head on a roll of damaged cotton , which served for a pillow , there's the best I can do for you . 
Her bonnet fell back , and long wavy streams of black hair fell around her singular and melancholy face . 
It's no use , my poor fellow ! she broke out , at last , it's of no use , this you've been trying to do . 
You were a brave fellow , you had the right on your side but it's all in vain , and out of the question , for you to struggle . 
All goes against us , heaven and earth . 
Everything is pushing us into hell . 
Why shouldn't we go ? Tom closed his eyes , and shuddered at the dark , atheistic words . 
You see , said the woman , you don't know anything about it I do . 
Tom folded his hands all was darkness and horror . 
They are all of 'em as low and cruel to each other as they can be there's no use in your suffering to keep from hurting them . 
Yes , said Tom but that won't keep us from growing wicked . 
Please , Missis , I saw 'em throw my coat in that ar' corner , and in my coat pocket is my Bible if Missis would please get it for me . 
Cassy went and got it . 
Tom opened , at once , to a heavily marked passage , much worn , of the last scenes in the life of Him by whose stripes we are healed . 
If Missis would only be so good as read that ar' , it's better than water . 
Cassy took the book , with a dry , proud air , and looked over the passage . 
She then read aloud , in a soft voice , and with a beauty of intonation that was peculiar , that touching account of anguish and of glory . 
Often , as she read , her voice faltered , and sometimes failed her altogether , when she would stop , with an air of frigid composure , till she had mastered herself . 
Tom was weeping , also , and occasionally uttering a smothered ejaculation . 
If we suffer with him , we shall also reign , Scripture says but , if we deny Him , he also will deny us . 
Sufferin' an't no reason to make us think the Lord's turned agin us but jest the contrary , if only we hold on to him , and doesn't give up to sin . 
But why does he put us where we can't help but sin ? said the woman . 
I think we can help it , said Tom . 
You'll see , said Cassy what'll you do ? Tomorrow they'll be at you again . 
There's Emmeline , she's trying to hold on , and you're trying , but what use ? You must give up , or be killed by inches . 
Well , then , I will die ! said Tom . 
Spin it out as long as they can , they can't help my dying , some time ! and , after that , they can't do no more . 
I'm clar , I'm set ! I know the Lord'll help me , and bring me through . 
The woman did not answer she sat with her black eyes intently fixed on the floor . 
There was a garden opening from the saloon windows and there I used to play hide and go seek , under the orange trees , with my brothers and sisters . 
I went to a convent , and there I learned music , French and embroidery , and what not and when I was fourteen , I came out to my father's funeral . 
My mother was a slave woman , and my father had always meant to set me free but he had not done it , and so I was set down in the list . 
I'd always known who I was , but never thought much about it . 
Nobody ever expects that a strong , healthy man is going to die . 
My father was a well man only four hours before he died it was one of the first cholera cases in New Orleans . 
The day after the funeral , my father's wife took her children , and went up to her father's plantation . 
I thought they treated me strangely , but didn't know . 
There was a young lawyer who they left to settle the business and he came every day , and was about the house , and spoke very politely to me . 
He brought with him , one day , a young man , whom I thought the handsomest I had ever seen . 
I shall never forget that evening . 
I walked with him in the garden . 
Loved ! said the woman , stopping . 
Everything that money could buy , he gave me but I didn't set any value on all that , I only cared for him . 
I loved him better than my God and my own soul , and , if I tried , I couldn't do any other way from what he wanted me to . 
I wanted only one thing I did want him to marry me . 
But he convinced me that it would be impossible and he told me that , if we were only faithful to each other , it was marriage before God . 
I alone , and gave him all his medicine , and did everything for him and then he called me his good angel , and said I'd saved his life . 
We had two beautiful children . 
The first was a boy , and we called him Henry . 
Little Elise , he said , looked like me . 
He used to tell me that I was the most beautiful woman in Louisiana , he was so proud of me and the children . 
O , those were happy days ! I thought I was as happy as any one could be but then there came evil times . 
He got Henry to going out with him , and often he would not come home nights till two or three o'clock . 
I did not dare say a word for Henry was so high spirited , I was afraid to . 
He got him to the gaming houses and he was one of the sort that , when he once got a going there , there was no holding back . 
And then he introduced him to another lady , and I saw soon that his heart was gone from me . 
He told me , one day , that he had business in the country , and should be gone two or three weeks . 
He spoke kinder than usual , and said he should come back but it didn't deceive me . 
I knew that the time had come I was just like one turned into stone I couldn't speak , nor shed a tear . 
He kissed me and kissed the children , a good many times , and went out . 
I saw him get on his horse , and I watched him till he was quite out of sight and then I fell down , and fainted . 
Then he came , the cursed wretch ! he came to take possession . 
He told me that he had bought me and my children and showed me the papers . 
I cursed him before God , and told him I'd die sooner than live with him . 
Just as you please , said he but , if you don't behave reasonably , I'll sell both the children , where you shall never see them again . 
I gave up , for my hands were tied . 
He had my children whenever I resisted his will anywhere , he would talk about selling them , and he made me as submissive as he desired . 
He was very imperious , and harsh to the children . 
Elise was a timid little thing but Henry was bold and high spirited , like his father , and he had never been brought under , in the least , by any one . 
He was always finding fault , and quarrelling with him and I used to live in daily fear and dread . 
I tried to make the child respectful I tried to keep them apart , for I held on to those children like death but it did no good . 
He sold both those children . 
Then it seemed as if all good forsook me . 
I raved and cursed , cursed God and man and , for a while , I believe , he really was afraid of me . 
But he didn't give up so . 
Well , you can do anything with a woman , when you've got her children . 
He made me submit he made me be peaceable he flattered me with hopes that , perhaps , he would buy them back and so things went on , a week or two . 
I offered him all the money I had , if he'd only interfere . 
He shook his head , and said that the boy had been impudent and disobedient , ever since he bought him that he was going to break him in , once for all . 
I turned and ran and every step of the way , I thought that I heard him scream . 
I got into the house ran , all out of breath , to the parlor , where I found Butler . 
I told him , and begged him to go and interfere . 
He only laughed , and told me the boy had got his deserts . 
He'd got to be broken in , the sooner the better what did I expect ? he asked . 
It seemed to me something in my head snapped , at that moment . 
I felt dizzy and furious . 
When I came to myself , I was in a nice room , but not mine . 
An old black woman tended me and a doctor came to see me , and there was a great deal of care taken of me . 
After a while , I found that he had gone away , and left me at this house to be sold and that's why they took such pains with me . 
I didn't mean to get well , and hoped I shouldn't but , in spite of me the fever went off and I grew healthy , and finally got up . 
I was so gloomy and silent , that none of them wanted me . 
They threatened to whip me , if I wasn't gayer , and didn't take some pains to make myself agreeable . 
At length , one day , came a gentleman named Stuart . 
He bought me , at last , and promised to do all he could to find and buy back my children . 
He went to the hotel where my Henry was they told him he had been sold to a planter up on Pearl river that was the last that I ever heard . 
Then he found where my daughter was an old woman was keeping her . 
He offered an immense sum for her , but they would not sell her . 
Butler found out that it was for me he wanted her and he sent me word that I should never have her . 
Captain Stuart was very kind to me he had a splendid plantation , and took me to it . 
In the course of a year , I had a son born . 
O , that child ! how I loved it ! How just like my poor Henry the little thing looked ! But I had made up my mind , yes , I had . 
I am not sorry , to this day he , at least , is out of pain . 
She had hurried on through her story , with a wild , passionate utterance sometimes seeming to address it to Tom , and sometimes speaking as in a soliloquy . 
You tell me , she said , after a pause , that there is a God , a God that looks down and sees all these things . 
I've wished the houses would fall on me , or the stones sink under me . 
In a few moments , the frenzy fit seemed to pass off she rose slowly , and seemed to collect herself . 
Tom drank the water , and looked earnestly and pitifully into her face . 
O , Missis , I wish you'd go to him that can give you living waters ! Go to him ! Where is he ? Who is he ? said Cassy . 
Him that you read of to me , the Lord . 
Tom looked as if he would speak again but she cut him short , with a decided gesture . 
Don't talk , my poor fellow . 
Try to sleep , if you can . 
And , placing water in his reach , and making whatever little arrangements for his comforts she could , Cassy left the shed . 
CHILDE HAROLD'S PILGRIMAGE , CAN . 
The sitting room of Legree's establishment was a large , long room , with a wide , ample fireplace . 
It had once been hung with a showy and expensive paper , which now hung mouldering , torn and discolored , from the damp walls . 
The place had that peculiar sickening , unwholesome smell , compounded of mingled damp , dirt and decay , which one often notices in close old houses . 
It was the woman Cassy , who had stolen upon his soliloquy . 
Either behave yourself , or stay down to the quarters , and fare and work with the rest . 
So , sit down here on my knee , my dear , and hear to reason , said he , laying hold on her wrist . 
Simon Legree , take care ! said the woman , with a sharp flash of her eye , a glance so wild and insane in its light as to be almost appalling . 
Get out ! I believe , to my soul , you have ! said Legree , pushing her from him , and looking uncomfortably at her . 
After all , Cassy , he said , why can't you be friends with me , as you used to ? Used to ! said she , bitterly . 
She stopped short , a word of choking feelings , rising in her heart , kept her silent . 
Legree , in a fury , swore she should be put to field service , if she would not be peaceable . 
Cassy , with proud scorn , declared she would go to the field . 
And she worked there one day , as we have described , to show how perfectly she scorned the threat . 
Legree was secretly uneasy , all day for Cassy had an influence over him from which he could not free himself . 
The outrageous treatment of poor Tom had roused her still more and she had followed Legree to the house , with no particular intention , but to upbraid him for his brutality . 
I wish , Cassy , said Legree , you'd behave yourself decently . 
I reckon you won't break him in ! Won't I ? said Legree , rising , passionately . 
He came forward , bowing , and holding out something in a paper . 
What's that , you dog ? said Legree . 
It's a witch thing , Mas'r ! A what ? Something that niggers gets from witches . 
Keeps 'em from feelin' when they 's flogged . 
He had it tied round his neck , with a black string . 
Legree , like most godless and cruel men , was superstitious . 
He took the paper , and opened it uneasily . 
There dropped out of it a silver dollar , and a long , shining curl of fair hair , hair which , like a living thing , twined itself round Legree's fingers . 
Damnation ! he screamed , in sudden passion , stamping on the floor , and pulling furiously at the hair , as if it burned him . 
Where did this come from ? Take it off ! burn it up ! burn it up ! he screamed , tearing it off , and throwing it into the charcoal . 
Sambo was glad to make his escape . 
When he was gone , Legree seemed a little ashamed of his fit of alarm . 
He sat doggedly down in his chair , and began sullenly sipping his tumbler of punch . 
Cassy prepared herself for going out , unobserved by him and slipped away to minister to poor Tom , as we have already related . 
In early childhood , a fair haired woman had led him , at the sound of Sabbath bell , to worship and to pray . 
Far in New England that mother had trained her only son , with long , unwearied love , and patient prayers . 
Born of a hard tempered sire , on whom that gentle woman had wasted a world of unvalued love , Legree had followed in the steps of his father . 
That was Legree's day of grace then good angels called him then he was almost persuaded , and mercy held him by the hand . 
His heart inly relented , there was a conflict , but sin got the victory , and he set all the force of his rough nature against the conviction of his conscience . 
He drank and swore , was wilder and more brutal than ever . 
The next Legree heard of his mother was , when , one night , as he was carousing among drunken companions , a letter was put into his hand . 
He opened it , and a lock of long , curling hair fell from it , and twined about his fingers . 
The letter told him his mother was dead , and that , dying , she blest and forgave him . 
There is a dread , unhallowed necromancy of evil , that turns things sweetest and holiest to phantoms of horror and affright . 
Legree burned the hair , and burned the letter and when he saw them hissing and crackling in the flame , inly shuddered as he thought of everlasting fires . 
Curse me , if I think there's any such thing as forgetting anything , any how , hang it ! I'm lonesome ! I mean to call Em . 
Legree stopped at the foot of the stairs , and heard a voice singing . 
It seemed strange and ghostlike in that dreary old house , perhaps because of the already tremulous state of his nerves . 
Em ! Em ! he called , harshly but only a mocking echo from the walls answered him . 
She came up on the verandah steps , and looked in . 
Legree and both the drivers , in a state of furious intoxication , were singing , whooping , upsetting chairs , and making all manner of ludicrous and horrid grimaces at each other . 
Would it be a sin to rid the world of such a wretch ? she said to herself . 
She turned hurriedly away , and , passing round to a back door , glided up stairs , and tapped at Emmeline's door . 
CHAPTER XXXVI Emmeline and Cassy Cassy entered the room , and found Emmeline sitting , pale with fear , in the furthest corner of it . 
O , you don't know what a horrid noise there has been , down stairs , all this evening ! I ought to know , said Cassy , dryly . 
I've heard it often enough . 
Did you ever try ? I've seen enough of trying and what comes of it , said Cassy . 
I'd be willing to live in the swamps , and gnaw the bark from trees . 
I an't afraid of snakes ! I'd rather have one near me than him , said Emmeline , eagerly . 
What wouldn't he do , you'd better ask , said Cassy . 
He's learned his trade well , among the pirates in the West Indies . 
You wouldn't sleep much , if I should tell you things I've seen , things that he tells of , sometimes , for good jokes . 
I've heard screams here that I haven't been able to get out of my head for weeks and weeks . 
There's a place way out down by the quarters , where you can see a black , blasted tree , and the ground all covered with black ashes . 
Ask anyone what was done there , and see if they will dare to tell you . 
O ! what do you mean ? I won't tell you . 
I hate to think of it . 
And I tell you , the Lord only knows what we may see tomorrow , if that poor fellow holds out as he's begun . 
Horrid ! said Emmeline , every drop of blood receding from her cheeks . 
O , Cassy , do tell me what I shall do ! What I've done . 
Do the best you can , do what you must , and make it up in hating and cursing . 
He wanted to make me drink some of his hateful brandy , said Emmeline and I hate it so You'd better drink , said Cassy . 
I hated it , too and now I can't live without it . 
One must have something things don't look so dreadful , when you take that . 
Mother used to tell me never to touch any such thing , said Emmeline . 
Mother told you ! said Cassy , with a thrilling and bitter emphasis on the word mother . 
What use is it for mothers to say anything ? You are all to be bought and paid for , and your souls belong to whoever gets you . 
That's the way it goes . 
I say , drink brandy drink all you can , and it'll make things come easier . 
That's an old wish with me , said Cassy . 
I've got used to wishing that . 
It would be wicked to kill one's self , said Emmeline . 
I don't know why , no wickeder than things we live and do , day after day . 
But the sisters told me things , when I was in the convent , that make me afraid to die . 
If it would only be the end of us , why , then Emmeline turned away , and hid her face in her hands . 
While this conversation was passing in the chamber , Legree , overcome with his carouse , had sunk to sleep in the room below . 
Legree was not an habitual drunkard . 
His coarse , strong nature craved , and could endure , a continual stimulation , that would have utterly wrecked and crazed a finer one . 
O ! how dares the bad soul to enter the shadowy world of sleep ? that land whose dim outlines lie so fearfully near to the mystic scene of retribution ! Legree dreamed . 
In his heavy and feverish sleep , a veiled form stood beside him , and laid a cold , soft hand upon him . 
He thought he knew who it was and shuddered , with creeping horror , though the face was veiled . 
And then rose up that solemn veiled figure , and drew aside the veil . 
Calmly the rosy hue of dawn was stealing into the room . 
The morning star stood , with its solemn , holy eye of light , looking down on the man of sin , from out the brightening sky . 
He woke with an oath and a curse . 
I've had a h l of a night ! he said to Cassy , who just then entered from an opposite door . 
You'll get plenty of the same sort , by and by , said she , dryly . 
What do you mean , you minx ? You'll find out , one of these days , returned Cassy , in the same tone . 
Now Simon , I've one piece of advice to give you . 
The devil , you have ! My advice is , said Cassy , steadily , as she began adjusting some things about the room , that you let Tom alone . 
What business is 't of yours ? What ? To be sure , I don't know what it should be . 
You have ? What business have you meddling in my matters ? None , to be sure . 
I've saved you some thousands of dollars , at different times , by taking care of your hands , that's all the thanks I get . 
Cassy , therefore , with woman's tact , touched the only string that could be made to vibrate . 
Well , I'll let him off at what he's got , said Legree but he shall beg my pardon , and promise better fashions . 
That he won't do , said Cassy . 
Won't , eh ? No , he won't , said Cassy . 
I'd like to know why , Mistress , said Legree , in the extreme of scorn . 
Because he's done right , and he knows it , and won't say he's done wrong . 
But he will give up , course , he will don't I know what niggers is ? He'll beg like a dog , this morning . 
He won't , Simon you don't know this kind . 
You may kill him by inches , you won't get the first word of confession out of him . 
We'll see , where is he ? said Legree , going out . 
In the waste room of the gin house , said Cassy . 
Legree , though he talked so stoutly to Cassy , still sallied forth from the house with a degree of misgiving which was not common with him . 
His dreams of the past night , mingled with Cassy's prudential suggestions , considerably affected his mind . 
The mysterious warnings and intimations of Cassy , so far from discouraging his soul , in the end had roused it as with a heavenly call . 
And , therefore , without shuddering or trembling , he heard the voice of his persecutor , as he drew near . 
Ye couldn't treat a poor sinner , now , to a bit of sermon , could ye , eh ? Tom answered nothing . 
Get up , you beast ! said Legree , kicking him again . 
This was a difficult matter for one so bruised and faint and , as Tom made efforts to do so , Legree laughed brutally . 
What makes ye so spry , this morning , Tom ? Cotched cold , may be , last night . 
Tom by this time had gained his feet , and was confronting his master with a steady , unmoved front . 
The devil , you can ! said Legree , looking him over . 
I believe you haven't got enough yet . 
Now , Tom , get right down on yer knees and beg my pardon , for yer shines last night . 
Down , you dog ! said Legree , striking him with his riding whip . 
Mas'r Legree , said Tom , I can't do it . 
I did only what I thought was right . 
I shall do just so again , if ever the time comes . 
I never will do a cruel thing , come what may . 
Yes , but ye don't know what may come , Master Tom . 
Ye think what you've got is something . 
I tell you 'tan't anything , nothing 't all . 
I'll give ye all the work of my hands , all my time , all my strength but my soul I won't give up to mortal man . 
I will hold on to the Lord , and put his commands before all , die or live you may be sure on 't . 
Mas'r Legree , I ain't a grain afeard to die . 
I'd as soon die as not . 
Ye may whip me , starve me , burn me , it'll only send me sooner where I want to go . 
I'll make ye give out , though , 'fore I've done ! said Legree , in a rage . 
I shall have help , said Tom you'll never do it . 
Who the devil's going to help you ? said Legree , scornfully . 
The Lord Almighty , said Tom . 
D n you ! said Legree , as with one blow of his fist he felled Tom to the earth . 
A cold soft hand fell on Legree's at this moment . 
Will you be a fool ? said Cassy , in French . 
Let him go ! Let me alone to get him fit to be in the field again . 
Legree turned away , determined to let the point go for the time . 
Well , have it your own way , he said , doggedly , to Cassy . 
Hark , ye ! he said to Tom I won't deal with ye now , because the business is pressing , and I want all my hands but I never forget . 
I'll score it against ye , and sometime I'll have my pay out o' yer old black hide , mind ye ! Legree turned , and went out . 
, Irish orator and judge who worked for Catholic emancipation . 
Imagine a tall , dignified , spiritual woman , whose clear muslin cap shades waves of silvery hair , parted on a broad , clear forehead , which overarches thoughtful gray eyes . 
A snowy handkerchief of lisse crape is folded neatly across her bosom her glossy brown silk dress rustles peacefully , as she glides up and down the chamber . 
The devil ! says Tom Loker , giving a great throw to the bedclothes . 
I must request thee , Thomas , not to use such language , says Aunt Dorcas , as she quietly rearranged the bed . 
That fellow and gal are here , I 'spose , said he , sullenly , after a pause . 
They are so , said Dorcas . 
They'd better be off up to the lake , said Tom the quicker the better . 
Probably they will do so , said Aunt Dorcas , knitting peacefully . 
And hark ye , said Tom we've got correspondents in Sandusky , that watch the boats for us . 
I don't care if I tell , now . 
I hope they will get away , just to spite Marks , the cursed puppy ! d n him ! Thomas ! said Dorcas . 
I tell you , granny , if you bottle a fellow up too tight , I shall split , said Tom . 
But about the gal , tell 'em to dress her up some way , so's to alter her . 
Her description's out in Sandusky . 
We will attend to that matter , said Dorcas , with characteristic composure . 
Tom always spoke reverently of the Quakers . 
Nice people , he would say wanted to convert me , but couldn't come it , exactly . 
But , tell ye what , stranger , they do fix up a sick fellow first rate , no mistake . 
Make jist the tallest kind o' broth and knicknacks . 
As Tom had informed them that their party would be looked for in Sandusky , it was thought prudent to divide them . 
Now for it , said she , as she stood before the glass , and shook down her silky abundance of black curly hair . 
Eliza turned to the glass , and the scissors glittered as one long lock after another was detached from her head . 
There , now , that'll do , she said , taking up a hair brush now for a few fancy touches . 
There , an't I a pretty young fellow ? she said , turning around to her husband , laughing and blushing at the same time . 
You always will be pretty , do what you will , said George . 
What does make you so sober ? said Eliza , kneeling on one knee , and laying her hand on his . 
We are only within twenty four hours of Canada , they say . 
To come so near , to be almost in sight , and then lose all . 
I should never live under it , Eliza . 
Don't fear , said his wife , hopefully . 
The good Lord would not have brought us so far , if he didn't mean to carry us through . 
I seem to feel him with us , George . 
You are a blessed woman , Eliza ! said George , clasping her with a convulsive grasp . 
I feel it in me , that God is going to bring us out of bondage , this very day . 
I will believe you , Eliza , said George , rising suddenly up , I will believe , come let's be off . 
Well , indeed , said he , holding her off at arm's length , and looking admiringly at her , you are a pretty little fellow . 
That crop of little , short curls , is quite becoming . 
So a little to one side . 
I never saw you look quite so pretty . 
What a pretty girl he makes , said Eliza , turning him round . 
Does Harry know mamma ? said Eliza , stretching her hands toward him . 
The child clung shyly to the woman . 
So , then , said Eliza , imitating the motion , and I must stamp , and take long steps , and try to look saucy . 
Don't exert yourself , said George . 
There is , now and then , a modest young man and I think it would be easier for you to act that character . 
And these gloves ! mercy upon us ! said Eliza why , my hands are lost in them . 
I advise you to keep them on pretty strictly , said George . 
Your slender paw might bring us all out . 
Now , Mrs. Smyth , you are to go under our charge , and be our aunty , you mind . 
I've heard , said Mrs. Smyth , that there have been men down , warning all the packet captains against a man and woman , with a little boy . 
They have ! said George . 
Well , if we see any such people , we can tell them . 
A hack now drove to the door , and the friendly family who had received the fugitives crowded around them with farewell greetings . 
The disguises the party had assumed were in accordance with the hints of Tom Loker . 
The hack drove to the wharf . 
The two young men , as they appeared , walked up the plank into the boat , Eliza gallantly giving her arm to Mrs. Smyth , and George attending to their baggage . 
George was standing at the captain's office , settling for his party , when he overheard two men talking by his side . 
I've watched every one that came on board , said one , and I know they're not on this boat . 
The voice was that of the clerk of the boat . 
The speaker whom he addressed was our sometime friend Marks , who , with that valuable perservance which characterized him , had come on to Sandusky , seeking whom he might devour . 
You would scarcely know the woman from a white one , said Marks . 
The man is a very light mulatto he has a brand in one of his hands . 
Mrs. Smyth , with little Harry , sought the seclusion of the ladies' cabin , where the dark beauty of the supposed little girl drew many flattering comments from the passengers . 
It was a superb day . 
The blue waves of Lake Erie danced , rippling and sparkling , in the sun light . 
A fresh breeze blew from the shore , and the lordly boat ploughed her way right gallantly onward . 
But the boat swept on . 
George and his wife stood arm in arm , as the boat neared the small town of Amherstberg , in Canada . 
His breath grew thick and short a mist gathered before his eyes he silently pressed the little hand that lay trembling on his arm . 
The bell rang the boat stopped . 
Scarcely seeing what he did , he looked out his baggage , and gathered his little party . 
The little company were landed on the shore . 
They had nothing more than the birds of the air , or the flowers of the field , yet they could not sleep for joy . 
O , ye who take freedom from man , with what words shall ye answer it to God ? CHAPTER XXXVIII The Victory Thanks be unto God , who giveth us the victory . 
There is a vivid excitement , a thrill and fervor , which may carry through any crisis of suffering that is the birth hour of eternal glory and rest . 
He had flattered himself on leisure to read his Bible but there was no such thing as leisure there . 
In the height of the season , Legree did not hesitate to press all his hands through , Sundays and week days alike . 
Why shouldn't he ? he made more cotton by it , and gained his wager and if it wore out a few more hands , he could buy better ones . 
It was weeks and months that Tom wrestled , in his own soul , in darkness and sorrow . 
He thought of Miss Ophelia's letter to his Kentucky friends , and would pray earnestly that God would send him deliverance . 
One evening , he was sitting , in utter dejection and prostration , by a few decaying brands , where his coarse supper was baking . 
He put a few bits of brushwood on the fire , and strove to raise the light , and then drew his worn Bible from his pocket . 
A coarse laugh roused him he looked up , Legree was standing opposite to him . 
You were a fool , said Legree for I meant to do well by you , when I bought you . 
I know all about it . 
Ye'd better hold to me I'm somebody , and can do something ! No , Mas'r , said Tom I'll hold on . 
Never mind I'll chase you down , yet , and bring you under , you'll see ! and Legree turned away . 
So was it now with Tom . 
Tom sat , like one stunned , at the fire . 
Suddenly everything around him seemed to fade , and a vision rose before him of one crowned with thorns , buffeted and bleeding . 
How long Tom lay there , he knew not . 
From his deepest soul , he that hour loosed and parted from every hope in life that now is , and offered his own will an unquestioning sacrifice to the Infinite . 
And when this mortal life shall fail , And flesh and sense shall cease , I shall possess within the veil A life of joy and peace . 
When we've been there ten thousand years , Bright shining like the sun , We've no less days to sing God's praise Than when we first begun . 
Those who have been familiar with the religious histories of the slave population know that relations like what we have narrated are very common among them . 
We have heard some from their own lips , of a very touching and affecting character . 
The psychologist tells us of a state , in which the affections and images of the mind become so dominant and overpowering , that they press into their service the outward imagining . 
So short now seemed the remaining voyage of life , so near , so vivid , seemed eternal blessedness , that life's uttermost woes fell from him unharming . 
All noticed the change in his appearance . 
Cheerfulness and alertness seemed to return to him , and a quietness which no insult or injury could ruffle seemed to possess him . 
What the devil's got into Tom ? Legree said to Sambo . 
A while ago he was all down in the mouth , and now he's peart as a cricket . 
Dunno , Mas'r gwine to run off , mebbe . 
I thought they'd a had her all stripped up afore I could get 'em off . 
She car's de marks o' dat ar spree yet . 
I reckon she will , to her grave , said Legree . 
But now , Sambo , you look sharp . 
If the nigger's got anything of this sort going , trip him up . 
Mas'r , let me lone for dat , said Sambo , I'll tree de coon . 
Ho , ho , ho ! This was spoken as Legree was getting on his horse , to go to the neighboring town . 
That night , as he was returning , he thought he would turn his horse and ride round the quarters , and see if all was safe . 
Legree was a little distance from the quarters , when he heard the voice of some one singing . 
It was not a usual sound there , and he paused to listen . 
Let cares like a wild deluge come , And storms of sorrow fall , May I but safely reach my home , My god , my Heaven , my All . 
On My Journey Home , hymn by Isaac Watts , found in many of the southern country songbooks of the ante bellum period . 
Legree was provoked beyond measure by Tom's evident happiness and riding up to him , belabored him over his head and shoulders . 
Tom stood perfectly submissive and yet Legree could not hide from himself that his power over his bond thrall was somehow gone . 
He understood full well that it was GOD who was standing between him and his victim , and he blasphemed him . 
One night , after all in Tom's cabin were sunk in sleep , he was suddenly aroused by seeing her face at the hole between the logs , that served for a window . 
She made a silent gesture for him to come out . 
Tom came out the door . 
It was between one and two o'clock at night , broad , calm , still moonlight . 
Tom remarked , as the light of the moon fell upon Cassy's large , black eyes , that there was a wild and peculiar glare in them , unlike their wonted fixed despair . 
What , Misse Cassy ? said Tom , anxiously . 
Tom , wouldn't you like your liberty ? I shall have it , Misse , in God's time , said Tom . 
Ay , but you may have it tonight , said Cassy , with a flash of sudden energy . 
Come ! said she , in a whisper , fixing her black eyes on him . 
Come along ! He's asleep sound . 
I put enough into his brandy to keep him so . 
I wish I'd had more , I shouldn't have wanted you . 
But come , the back door is unlocked there's an axe there , I put it there , his room door is open I'll show you the way . 
I'd a done it myself , only my arms are so weak . 
Come along ! Not for ten thousand worlds , Misse ! said Tom , firmly , stopping and holding her back , as she was pressing forward . 
But think of all these poor creatures , said Cassy . 
We might set them all free , and go somewhere in the swamps , and find an island , and live by ourselves I've heard of its being done . 
Any life is better than this . 
No ! said Tom , firmly . 
No ! good never comes of wickedness . 
I'd sooner chop my right hand off ! Then I shall do it , said Cassy , turning . 
The Lord hasn't called us to wrath . 
We must suffer , and wait his time . 
No , ye poor , lost soul , that ye mustn't do . 
The dear , blessed Lord never shed no blood but his own , and that he poured out for us when we was enemies . 
Lord , help us to follow his steps , and love our enemies . 
Love ! said Cassy , with a fierce glare love such enemies ! It isn't in flesh and blood . 
No , Misse , it isn't , said Tom , looking up but He gives it to us , and that's the victory . 
The deep fervor of Tom's feelings , the softness of his voice , his tears , fell like dew on the wild , unsettled spirit of the poor woman . 
I can't pray ! Poor soul ! said Tom , compassionately . 
Satan desires to have ye , and sift ye as wheat . 
I pray the Lord for ye . 
O ! Misse Cassy , turn to the dear Lord Jesus . 
He came to bind up the broken hearted , and comfort all that mourn . 
Cassy stood silent , while large , heavy tears dropped from her downcast eyes . 
It's different with you it's a snare to you , it's more'n you can stand , and you'd better go , if you can . 
I know no way but through the grave , said Cassy . 
There's no beast or bird but can find a home some where even the snakes and the alligators have their places to lie down and be quiet but there's no place for us . 
Down in the darkest swamps , their dogs will hunt us out , and find us . 
Try it , and I'll pray , with all my might , for you . 
Father Tom , I'll try it ! she said , suddenly . 
Amen ! said Tom the Lord help ye ! CHAPTER XXXIX The Stratagem The way of the wicked is as darkness he knoweth not at what he stumbleth . 
The garret of the house that Legree occupied , like most other garrets , was a great , desolate space , dusty , hung with cobwebs , and littered with cast off lumber . 
One or two immense packing boxes , in which this furniture was brought , stood against the sides of the garret . 
Altogether , it was a weird and ghostly place but , ghostly as it was , it wanted not in legends among the superstitious negroes , to increase it terrors . 
Some few years before , a negro woman , who had incurred Legree's displeasure , was confined there for several weeks . 
This hint was enough to repress talking , though , of course , it did not disturb the credit of the story in the least . 
The sleeping room of Cassy was directly under the garret . 
The under servants , who were called on to effect this movement , were running and bustling about with great zeal and confusion , when Legree returned from a ride . 
Hallo ! you Cass ! said Legree , what's in the wind now ? Nothing only I choose to have another room , said Cassy , doggedly . 
And what for , pray ? said Legree . 
I choose to , said Cassy . 
The devil you do ! and what for ? I'd like to get some sleep , now and then . 
Sleep ! well , what hinders your sleeping ? I could tell , I suppose , if you want to hear , said Cassy , dryly . 
Speak out , you minx ! said Legree . 
Perhaps you'd better try it ! and then immediately she shut and locked the door . 
Legree blustered and swore , and threatened to break down the door but apparently thought better of it , and walked uneasily into the sitting room . 
Cassy perceived that her shaft had struck home and , from that hour , with the most exquisite address , she never ceased to continue the train of influences she had begun . 
These sounds were , from time to time , heard by the servants , and revived in full force the memory of the old ghost legend . 
A superstitious creeping horror seemed to fill the house and though no one dared to breathe it to Legree , he found himself encompassed by it , as by an atmosphere . 
No one is so thoroughly superstitious as the godless man . 
Life and death to him are haunted grounds , filled with goblin forms of vague and shadowy dread . 
The influence of Cassy over him was of a strange and singular kind . 
He was her owner , her tyrant and tormentor . 
When he first bought her , she was , as she said , a woman delicately bred and then he crushed her , without scruple , beneath the foot of his brutality . 
This influence had become more harassing and decided , since partial insanity had given a strange , weird , unsettled cast to all her words and language . 
A night or two after this , Legree was sitting in the old sitting room , by the side of a flickering wood fire , that threw uncertain glances round the room . 
It was a stormy , windy night , such as raises whole squadrons of nondescript noises in rickety old houses . 
Legree had been casting up accounts and reading newspapers for some hours , while Cassy sat in the corner sullenly looking into the fire . 
Legree poohed and pished , but read , turning page after page , till , finally , after reading some way , he threw down the book , with an oath . 
You don't believe in ghosts , do you , Cass ? said he , taking the tongs and settling the fire . 
I thought you'd more sense than to let noises scare you . 
No matter what I believe , said Cassy , sullenly . 
Fellows used to try to frighten me with their yarns at sea , said Legree . 
Never come it round me that way . 
I'm too tough for any such trash , tell ye . 
Cassy sat looking intensely at him in the shadow of the corner . 
There was that strange light in her eyes that always impressed Legree with uneasiness . 
Them noises was nothing but rats and the wind , said Legree . 
Rats will make a devil of a noise . 
I used to hear 'em sometimes down in the hold of the ship and wind , Lord's sake ! ye can make anything out o' wind . 
Come , speak out , woman , don't you think so ? said Legree . 
Woman ! what do you mean ? Nobody did ? O , no , of course not , did I say they did ? said Cassy , with a smile of chilling derision . 
Did it come from the garret , Cassy ? It , what ? said Cassy . 
Why , what you told of I didn't tell you anything , said Cassy , with dogged sullenness . 
Legree walked up and down the room , uneasily . 
I'll have this yer thing examined . 
I'll look into it , this very night . 
I'll take my pistols Do , said Cassy sleep in that room . 
I'd like to see you doing it . 
Fire your pistols , do ! Legree stamped his foot , and swore violently . 
Don't swear , said Cassy nobody knows who may be hearing you . 
Hark ! What was that ? What ? said Legree , starting . 
A heavy old Dutch clock , that stood in the corner of the room , began , and slowly struck twelve . 
Twelve o'clock well now we'll see , said she , turning , and opening the door into the passage way , and standing as if listening . 
Hark ! What's that ? said she , raising her finger . 
It's only the wind , said Legree . 
It came from the garret . 
Legree's knees knocked together his face grew white with fear . 
Hadn't you better get your pistols ? said Cassy , with a sneer that froze Legree's blood . 
It's time this thing was looked into , you know . 
I'd like to have you go up now they're at it . 
I won't go ! said Legree , with an oath . 
Why not ? There an't any such thing as ghosts , you know ! Come ! and Cassy flitted up the winding stairway , laughing , and looking back after him . 
I believe you are the devil ! said Legree . 
Come back you hag , come back , Cass ! You shan't go ! But Cassy laughed wildly , and fled on . 
He heard her open the entry doors that led to the garret . 
I hope you are satisfied , said she . 
Blast you , Cass ! said Legree . 
What for ? said Cassy . 
I only went up and shut the doors . 
What's the matter with that garret , Simon , do you suppose ? said she . 
None of your business ! said Legree . 
O , it an't ? Well , said Cassy , at any rate , I'm glad I don't sleep under it . 
Anticipating the rising of the wind , that very evening , Cassy had been up and opened the garret window . 
Of course , the moment the doors were opened , the wind had drafted down , and extinguished the light . 
This may serve as a specimen of the game that Cassy played with Legree , until he would sooner have put his head into a lion's mouth than to have explored that garret . 
All things being arranged , they only waited a fitting opportunity to put their plan in execution . 
With a memory sharpened to almost preternatural clearness , she remarked every turn in the road , and formed a mental estimate of the time to be occupied in traversing it . 
At the time when all was matured for action , our readers may , perhaps , like to look behind the scenes , and see the final coup d'etat . 
It was now near evening , Legree had been absent , on a ride to a neighboring farm . 
For many days Cassy had been unusually gracious and accommodating in her humors and Legree and she had been , apparently , on the best of terms . 
At present , we may behold her and Emmeline in the room of the latter , busy in sorting and arranging two small bundles . 
There , these will be large enough , said Cassy . 
Now put on your bonnet , and let's start it's just about the right time . 
Why , they can see us yet , said Emmeline . 
I mean they shall , said Cassy , coolly . 
Sambo or Quimbo will be sure to see us . 
That will put the dogs all at fault for scent won't lie in the water . 
We must stay in that garret a good while , for , I tell you , he will raise heaven and earth after us . 
He'll muster some of those old overseers on the other plantations , and have a great hunt and they'll go over every inch of ground in that swamp . 
He makes it his boast that nobody ever got away from him . 
So let him hunt at his leisure . 
Cassy , how well you have planned it ! said Emmeline . 
Who ever would have thought of it , but you ? There was neither pleasure nor exultation in Cassy's eyes , only a despairing firmness . 
Come , she said , reaching her hand to Emmeline . 
The two fugitives glided noiselessly from the house , and flitted , through the gathering shadows of evening , along by the quarters . 
The crescent moon , set like a silver signet in the western sky , delayed a little the approach of night . 
As Cassy expected , when quite near the verge of the swamps that encircled the plantation , they heard a voice calling to them to stop . 
It was not Sambo , however , but Legree , who was pursuing them with violent execrations . 
The diversion accomplished the purpose . 
Well , said he , chuckling brutally at any rate , they've got themselves into a trap now the baggage ! They're safe enough . 
There's two runaways in the swamps . 
I'll give five dollars to any nigger as catches 'em . 
Turn out the dogs ! Turn out Tiger , and Fury , and the rest ! The sensation produced by this news was immediate . 
Some ran one way , and some another . 
Some were for getting flambeaux of pine knots . 
Some were uncoupling the dogs , whose hoarse , savage bay added not a little to the animation of the scene . 
Mas'r , shall we shoot 'em , if can't cotch 'em ? said Sambo , to whom his master brought out a rifle . 
You may fire on Cass , if you like it's time she was gone to the devil , where she belongs but the gal , not , said Legree . 
And now , boys , be spry and smart . 
Five dollars for him that gets 'em and a glass of spirits to every one of you , anyhow . 
The establishment was , of a consequence , wholly deserted , when Cassy and Emmeline glided into it the back way . 
O , for pity's sake , do let's hide ourselves . 
Meanwhile , said she , deliberately taking a key from the pocket of a coat that Legree had thrown down in his hurry , meanwhile I shall take something to pay our passage . 
She unlocked the desk , took from it a roll of bills , which she counted over rapidly . 
O , don't let's do that ! said Emmeline . 
Don't ! said Cassy why not ? Would you have us starve in the swamps , or have that that will pay our way to the free states . 
Money will do anything , girl . 
And , as she spoke , she put the money in her bosom . 
It would be stealing , said Emmeline , in a distressed whisper . 
Stealing ! said Cassy , with a scornful laugh . 
They who steal body and soul needn't talk to us . 
Every one of these bills is stolen , stolen from poor , starving , sweating creatures , who must go to the devil at last , for his profit . 
Let him talk about stealing ! But come , we may as well go up garret I've got a stock of candles there , and some books to pass away the time . 
You may be pretty sure they won't come there to inquire after us . 
If they do , I'll play ghost for them . 
Cassy lit a small lamp , and creeping round under the eaves , they established themselves in it . 
How do you like it ? Are you sure they won't come and search the garret ? I'd like to see Simon Legree doing that , said Cassy . 
No , indeed he will be too glad to keep away . 
As to the servants , they would any of them stand and be shot , sooner than show their faces here . 
Somewhat reassured , Emmeline settled herself back on her pillow . 
What did you mean , Cassy , by saying you would kill me ? she said , simply . 
I meant to stop your fainting , said Cassy , and I did do it . 
And now I tell you , Emmeline , you must make up your mind not to faint , let what will come there's no sort of need of it . 
If I had not stopped you , that wretch might have had his hands on you now . 
The two remained some time in silence . 
Cassy busied herself with a French book Emmeline , overcome with the exhaustion , fell into a doze , and slept some time . 
She was awakened by loud shouts and outcries , the tramp of horses' feet , and the baying of dogs . 
She started up , with a faint shriek . 
Only the hunt coming back , said Cassy , coolly never fear . 
Look out of this knot hole . 
Don't you see 'em all down there ? Simon has to give up , for this night . 
Look , how muddy his horse is , flouncing about in the swamp the dogs , too , look rather crestfallen . 
Ah , my good sir , you'll have to try the race again and again , the game isn't there . 
No danger we may make any noise we please , and it will only add to the effect . 
At length the stillness of midnight settled down over the house . 
Legree , cursing his ill luck , and vowing dire vengeance on the morrow , went to bed . 
This poem does not appear in the collected works of William Cullen Bryant , nor in the collected poems of his brother , John Howard Bryant . 
It was probably copied from a newspaper or magazine . 
The longest way must have its close , the gloomiest night will wear on to a morning . 
An eternal , inexorable lapse of moments is ever hurrying the day of the evil to an eternal night , and the night of the just to an eternal day . 
The morning star now stands over the tops of the mountains , and gales and breezes , not of earth , show that the gates of day are unclosing . 
When he hurriedly announced the tidings among his hands , there was a sudden light in Tom's eye , a sudden upraising of his hands , that did not escape him . 
He saw that he did not join the muster of the pursuers . 
Tom , therefore , remained behind , with a few who had learned of him to pray , and offered up prayers for the escape of the fugitives . 
When Legree returned , baffled and disappointed , all the long working hatred of his soul towards his slave began to gather in a deadly and desperate form . 
But , then , Tom was a faithful , valuable servant and , although Legree hated him the more for that , yet the consideration was still somewhat of a restraint to him . 
Ye say that the interest of the master is a sufficient safeguard for the slave . 
A more hard favored set , perhaps , could not be imagined . 
Cassy placed her ear at the knot hole and , as the morning air blew directly towards the house , she could overhear a good deal of the conversation . 
She looked perplexed , but made no answer . 
She only took her hand , with a gentle , caressing movement . 
I know I'll never see my poor old mother again ! I shall love you , Cassy , whether you love me or not ! The gentle , child like spirit conquered . 
You must trust him , Cassy , said Emmeline he is our Father ! His wrath is upon us , said Cassy he has turned away in anger . 
No , Cassy ! He will be good to us ! Let us hope in Him , said Emmeline , I always have had hope . 
Quimbo , therefore , departed , with a will , to execute his orders . 
But he felt strong in God to meet death , rather than betray the helpless . 
Nerve and bone of that poor man's body vibrated to those words , as if touched by the finger of God and he felt the strength of a thousand souls in one . 
As he passed along , the trees . 
and bushes , the huts of his servitude , the whole scene of his degradation , seemed to whirl by him as the landscape by the rushing ear . 
His soul throbbed , his home was in sight , and the hour of release seemed at hand . 
D'ye hear ? said Legree , stamping , with a roar like that of an incensed lion . 
Speak ! I han't got nothing to tell , Mas'r , said Tom , with a slow , firm , deliberate utterance . 
Do you dare to tell me , ye old black Christian , ye don't know ? said Legree . 
Speak ! thundered Legree , striking him furiously . 
Do you know anything ? I know , Mas'r but I can't tell anything . 
You've always stood it out again' me now , I'll conquer ye , or kill ye ! one or t' other . 
It was but a moment . 
Scenes of blood and cruelty are shocking to our ear and heart . 
What man has nerve to do , man has not nerve to hear . 
The tempter stood by him , too , blinded by furious , despotic will , every moment pressing him to shun that agony by the betrayal of the innocent . 
But the brave , true heart was firm on the Eternal Rock . 
Like his Master , he knew that , if he saved others , himself he could not save nor could utmost extremity wring from him words , save of prayers and holy trust . 
He's most gone , Mas'r , said Sambo , touched , in spite of himself , by the patience of his victim . 
Pay away , till he gives up ! Give it to him ! give it to him ! shouted Legree . 
I'll take every drop of blood he has , unless he confesses ! Tom opened his eyes , and looked upon his master . 
Ye poor miserable critter ! he said , there ain't no more ye can do ! I forgive ye , with all my soul ! and he fainted entirely away . 
I b'lieve , my soul , he's done for , finally , said Legree , stepping forward , to look at him . 
Sartin , we 's been doin' a drefful wicked thing ! said Sambo hopes Mas'r'll have to 'count for it , and not we . 
He brought it back , and poured it down Tom's throat . 
O , Tom ! said Quimbo , we's been awful wicked to ye ! I forgive ye , with all my heart ! said Tom , faintly . 
He poured forth a few energetic sentences of that wondrous One , his life , his death , his everlasting presence , and power to save . 
They wept , both the two savage men . 
It was George Shelby and , to show how he came to be there , we must go back in our story . 
Mrs. Shelby read the intelligence with the deepest concern but any immediate action upon it was an impossibility . 
She was then in attendance on the sick bed of her husband , who lay delirious in the crisis of a fever . 
Miss Ophelia had taken the precaution to send them the name of the lawyer who did business for the St . 
Clares and the most that , in the emergency , could be done , was to address a letter of inquiry to him . 
The sudden death of Mr. Shelby , a few days after , brought , of course , an absorbing pressure of other interests , for a season . 
Mr. Shelby showed his confidence in his wife's ability , by appointing her sole executrix upon his estates and thus immediately a large and complicated amount of business was brought upon her hands . 
He was soon introduced into the house , where he found Legree in the sitting room . 
Legree received the stranger with a kind of surly hospitality , I understand , said the young man , that you bought , in New Orleans , a boy , named Tom . 
He used to be on my father's place , and I came to see if I couldn't buy him back . 
I b'lieve he's trying to die but I don't know as he'll make it out . 
Where is he ? said George , impetuously . 
The cheeks of the young man were crimson , and his eyes flashed fire but he prudently said nothing , as yet . 
He's in dat ar shed , said a little fellow , who stood holding George's horse . 
Legree kicked the boy , and swore at him but George , without saying another word , turned and strode to the spot . 
Tom had been lying two days since the fatal night , not suffering , for every nerve of suffering was blunted and destroyed . 
He lay , for the most part , in a quiet stupor for the laws of a powerful and well knit frame would not at once release the imprisoned spirit . 
Truly , those poor disciples had little to give , only the cup of cold water but it was given with full hearts . 
When George entered the shed , he felt his head giddy and his heart sick . 
Is it possible , , is it possible ? said he , kneeling down by him . 
Uncle Tom , my poor , poor old friend ! Something in the voice penetrated to the ear of the dying . 
He moved his head gently , smiled , and said , Jesus can make a dying bed Feel soft as down pillows are . 
Tears which did honor to his manly heart fell from the young man's eyes , as he bent over his poor friend . 
O , dear Uncle Tom ! do wake , do speak once more ! Look up ! Here's Mas'r George , your own little Mas'r George . 
Don't you know me ? Mas'r George ! said Tom , opening his eyes , and speaking in a feeble voice Mas'r George ! He looked bewildered . 
Bless the Lord ! it is , it is , it's all I wanted ! They haven't forgot me . 
O , Mas'r George , ye're too late . 
The Lord's bought me , and is going to take me home , and I long to go . 
Heaven is better than Kintuck . 
He sat gazing in silence . 
Tom grasped his hand , and continued , Ye mustn't , now , tell Chloe , poor soul ! how ye found me 't would be so drefful to her . 
Only tell her ye found me going into glory and that I couldn't stay for no one . 
And tell her the Lord's stood by me everywhere and al'ays , and made everything light and easy . 
The old satan ! said George , in his indignation . 
A sudden sinking fell upon him he closed his eyes and that mysterious and sublime change passed over his face , that told the approach of other worlds . 
He began to draw his breath with long , deep inspirations and his broad chest rose and fell , heavily . 
The expression of his face was that of a conqueror . 
George sat fixed with solemn awe . 
Something in that dying scene had checked the natural fierceness of youthful passion . 
The presence of the man was simply loathsome to George and he felt only an impulse to get away from him , with as few words as possible . 
Fixing his keen dark eyes on Legree , he simply said , pointing to the dead , You have got all you ever can of him . 
What shall I pay you for the body ? I will take it away , and bury it decently . 
I don't sell dead niggers , said Legree , doggedly . 
You are welcome to bury him where and when you like . 
One of them ran for a spade the other two assisted George to carry the body to the wagon . 
George neither spoke to nor looked at Legree , who did not countermand his orders , but stood , whistling , with an air of forced unconcern . 
He sulkily followed them to where the wagon stood at the door . 
George spread his cloak in the wagon , and had the body carefully disposed of in it , moving the seat , so as to give it room . 
But , sir , this innocent blood shall have justice . 
I will proclaim this murder . 
I will go to the very first magistrate , and expose you . 
Do ! said Legree , snapping his fingers , scornfully . 
I'd like to see you doing it . 
Where you going to get witnesses ? how you going to prove it ? Come , now ! George saw , at once , the force of this defiance . 
There was not a white person on the place and , in all southern courts , the testimony of colored blood is nothing . 
He felt , at that moment , as if he could have rent the heavens with his heart's indignant cry for justice but in vain . 
After all , what a fuss , for a dead nigger ! said Legree . 
The word was as a spark to a powder magazine . 
Prudence was never a cardinal virtue of the Kentucky boy . 
Some men , however , are decidedly bettered by being knocked down . 
If a man lays them fairly flat in the dust , they seem immediately to conceive a respect for him and Legree was one of this sort . 
Beyond the boundaries of the plantation , George had noticed a dry , sandy knoll , shaded by a few trees there they made the grave . 
Shall we take off the cloak , Mas'r ? said the negroes , when the grave was ready . 
No , no , bury it with him ! It's all I can give you , now , poor Tom , and you shall have it . 
They laid him in and the men shovelled away , silently . 
They banked it up , and laid green turf over it . 
You may go , boys , said George , slipping a quarter into the hand of each . 
They lingered about , however . 
If young Mas'r would please buy us said one . 
We'd serve him so faithful ! said the other . 
Hard times here , Mas'r ! said the first . 
He needs none ! His Lord knows where he lies , and will raise him up , immortal , to appear with him when he shall appear in his glory . 
Of such it is written , Blessed are they that mourn , for they shall be comforted . 
CHAPTER XLII An Authentic Ghost Story For some remarkable reason , ghostly legends were uncommonly rife , about this time , among the servants on Legree's place . 
It was whisperingly asserted that footsteps , in the dead of night , had been heard descending the garret stairs , and patrolling the house . 
Legree could not help overhearing this whispering and it was all the more exciting to him , from the pains that were taken to conceal it from him . 
The night after Tom's body had been carried away , he rode to the next town for a carouse , and had a high one . 
Got home late and tired locked his door , took out the key , and went to bed . 
After all , let a man take what pains he may to hush it down , a human soul is an awful ghostly , unquiet possession , for a bad man to have . 
He examined the catches and fastenings of the windows , and then swore he didn't care for the devil and all his angels , and went to sleep . 
Well , he slept , for he was tired , slept soundly . 
But , finally , there came over his sleep a shadow , a horror , an apprehension of something dreadful hanging over him . 
It was his mother's shroud , he thought but Cassy had it , holding it up , and showing it to him . 
He heard a confused noise of screams and groanings and , with it all , he knew he was asleep , and he struggled to wake himself . 
He was sure something was coming into his room . 
He knew the door was opening , but he could not stir hand or foot . 
At last he turned , with a start the door was open , and he saw a hand putting out his light . 
It was a cloudy , misty moonlight , and there he saw it ! something white , gliding in ! He heard the still rustle of its ghostly garments . 
He sprang out of bed , and pulled at the door . 
It was shut and locked , and the man fell down in a swoon . 
After this , Legree became a harder drinker than ever before . 
He no longer drank cautiously , prudently , but imprudently and recklessly . 
There were reports around the country , soon after that he was sick and dying . 
Excess had brought on that frightful disease that seems to throw the lurid shadows of a coming retribution back into the present life . 
It was near sunrise when Cassy and Emmeline paused , for a moment , in a little knot of trees near the town . 
Cassy was dressed after the manner of the Creole Spanish ladies , wholly in black . 
A small black bonnet on her head , covered by a veil thick with embroidery , concealed her face . 
It had been agreed that , in their escape , she was to personate the character of a Creole lady , and Emmeline that of her servant . 
She stopped in the outskirts of the town , where she had noticed trunks for sale , and purchased a handsome one . 
This she requested the man to send along with her . 
The first person that struck her , after her arrival , was George Shelby , who was staying there , awaiting the next boat . 
Cassy had remarked the young man from her loophole in the garret , and seen him bear away the body of Tom , and observed with secret exultation , his rencontre with Legree . 
She , therefore , felt an immediate accession of confidence , when she found that he was , like herself , awaiting the next boat . 
Cassy's air and manner , address , and evident command of money , prevented any rising disposition to suspicion in the hotel . 
People never inquire too closely into those who are fair on the main point , of paying well , a thing which Cassy had foreseen when she provided herself with money . 
Cassy kept her room and bed , on pretext of illness , during the whole time they were on Red river and was waited on , with obsequious devotion , by her attendant . 
Behold , therefore , the whole party safely transferred to the good steamer Cincinnati , and sweeping up the river under a powerful head of steam . 
Cassy's health was much better . 
She sat upon the guards , came to the table , and was remarked upon in the boat as a lady that must have been very handsome . 
He could not keep himself from looking at her , and watchin her perpetually . 
She began to think that he suspected something and finally resolved to throw herself entirely on his generosity , and intrusted him with her whole history . 
The next state room to Cassy's was occupied by a French lady , named De Thoux , who was accompanied by a fine little daughter , a child of some twelve summers . 
George's chair was often placed at her state room door and Cassy , as she sat upon the guards , could hear their conversation . 
Madame de Thoux was very minute in her inquiries as to Kentucky , where she said she had resided in a former period of her life . 
We never have had much intercourse with him , though . 
He is a large slave owner , I believe , said Madame de Thoux , with a manner which seemed to betray more interest than she was exactly willing to show . 
He is , said George , looking rather surprised at her manner . 
He has ? said Madame de Thoux , quickly . 
Thank God ! George looked a surprised inquiry , but said nothing . 
Madame de Thoux leaned her head on her hand , and burst into tears . 
He is my brother , she said . 
Madame ! said George , with a strong accent of surprise . 
I was sold to the South when he was a boy , said she . 
I was bought by a good and generous man . 
He took me with him to the West Indies , set me free , and married me . 
It is but lately that he died and I was going up to Kentucky , to see if I could find and redeem my brother . 
I heard him speak of a sister Emily , that was sold South , said George . 
He sustained a first rate character , both for intelligence and principle . 
I know , you see , he said because he married in our family . 
What sort of a girl ? said Madame de Thoux , eagerly . 
A treasure , said George a beautiful , intelligent , amiable girl . 
My mother had brought her up , and trained her as carefully , almost , as a daughter . 
She could read and write , embroider and sew , beautifully and was a beautiful singer . 
Was she born in your house ? said Madame de Thoux . 
No. Father bought her once , in one of his trips to New Orleans , and brought her up as a present to mother . 
She was about eight or nine years old , then . 
Father would never tell mother what he gave for her but , the other day , in looking over his old papers , we came across the bill of sale . 
He paid an extravagant sum for her , to be sure . 
I suppose , on account of her extraordinary beauty . 
George sat with his back to Cassy , and did not see the absorbed expression of her countenance , as he was giving these details . 
At least , I think that was the name on the bill of sale . 
O , my God ! said Cassy , and fell insensible on the floor of the cabin . 
George was wide awake now , and so was Madame de Thoux . 
CHAPTER XLIII Results The rest of our story is soon told . 
It remained now only for her to trace out the path of the fugitives . 
At Amherstberg they found the missionary with whom George and Eliza had taken shelter , on their first arrival in Canada and through him were enabled to trace the family to Montreal . 
George and Eliza had now been five years free . 
Little Harry a fine bright boy had been put to a good school , and was making rapid proficiency in knowledge . 
The scene now changes to a small , neat tenement , in the outskirts of Montreal the time , evening . 
A cheerful fire blazes on the hearth a tea table , covered with a snowy cloth , stands prepared for the evening meal . 
At this present time , he is seated at the table , making notes from a volume of the family library he has been reading . 
Come , George , says Eliza , you've been gone all day . 
Do put down that book , and let's talk , while I'm getting tea , do . 
O , you little witch ! says George , yielding , as , in such circumstances , man always must . 
That's right , says Eliza , as she begins to cut a loaf of bread . 
A little older she looks her form a little fuller her air more matronly than of yore but evidently contented and happy as woman need be . 
Harry , my boy , how did you come on in that sum , today ? says George , as he laid his land on his son's head . 
You have a better chance than ever your poor father had . 
At this moment , there is a rap at the door and Eliza goes and opens it . 
The delighted Why ! this you ? calls up her husband and the good pastor of Amherstberg is welcomed . 
There are two more women with him , and Eliza asks them to sit down . 
The note book of a missionary , among the Canadian fugitives , contains truth stranger than fiction . 
And , indeed , in two or three days , such a change has passed over Cassy , that our readers would scarcely know her . 
The despairing , haggard expression of her face had given way to one of gentle trust . 
She seemed to sink , at once , into the bosom of the family , and take the little ones into her heart , as something for which it long had waited . 
Indeed , her love seemed to flow more naturally to the little Eliza than to her own daughter for she was the exact image and body of the child whom she had lost . 
The little one was a flowery bond between mother and daughter , through whom grew up acquaintanceship and affection . 
Eliza's steady , consistent piety , regulated by the constant reading of the sacred word , made her a proper guide for the shattered and wearied mind of her mother . 
Cassy yielded at once , and with her whole soul , to every good influence , and became a devout and tender Christian . 
After a day or two , Madame de Thoux told her brother more particularly of her affairs . 
The death of her husband had left her an ample fortune , which she generously offered to share with the family . 
When she asked George what way she could best apply it for him , he answered , Give me an education , Emily that has always been my heart's desire . 
Then , I can do all the rest . 
On mature deliberation , it was decided that the whole family should go , for some years , to France whither they sailed , carrying Emmeline with them . 
The good looks of the latter won the affection of the first mate of the vessel and , shortly after entering the port , she became his wife . 
George remained four years at a French university , and , applying himself with an unintermitted zeal , obtained a very thorough education . 
Political troubles in France , at last , led the family again to seek an asylum in this country . 
George's feelings and views , as an educated man , may be best expressed in a letter to one of his friends . 
I feel somewhat at a loss , as to my future course . 
Well , perhaps , on sufferance , I might . 
But , to tell you the truth , I have no wish to . 
My sympathies are not for my father's race , but for my mother's . 
I know it by my own heart . 
The desire and yearning of my soul is for an African nationality . 
A stream cannot rise above its fountain . 
The race that formed the character of the Haytiens was a worn out , effeminate one and , of course , the subject race will be centuries in rising to anything . 
Having gone through a preparatory stage of feebleness , this republic has , at last , become an acknowledged nation on the face of the earth , acknowledged by both France and England . 
There it is my wish to go , and find myself a people . 
I am aware , now , that I shall have you all against me but , before you strike , hear me . 
During my stay in France , I have followed up , with intense interest , the history of my people in America . 
I have noted the struggle between abolitionist and colonizationist , and have received some impressions , as a distant spectator , which could never have occurred to me as a participator . 
I grant that this Liberia may have subserved all sorts of purposes , by being played off , in the hands of our oppressors , against us . 
Doubtless the scheme may have been used , in unjustifiable ways , as a means of retarding our emancipation . 
A nation starts , now , with all the great problems of republican life and civilization wrought out to its hand it has not to discover , but only to apply . 
Do you say that I am deserting my enslaved brethren ? I think not . 
A nation has a right to argue , remonstrate , implore , and present the cause of its race , which an individual has not . 
But , you will tell me , our race have equal rights to mingle in the American republic as the Irishman , the German , the Swede . 
We ought , in particular , to be allowed here . 
We have more than the rights of common men we have the claim of an injured race for reparation . 
But , then , I do not want it I want a country , a nation , of my own . 
To the Anglo Saxon race has been intrusted the destinies of the world , during its pioneer period of struggle and conflict . 
To that mission its stern , inflexible , energetic elements , were well adapted but , as a Christian , I look for another era to arise . 
On its borders I trust we stand and the throes that now convulse the nations are , to my hope , but the birth pangs of an hour of universal peace and brotherhood . 
I trust that the development of Africa is to be essentially a Christian one . 
If not a dominant and commanding race , they are , at least , an affectionate , magnanimous , and forgiving one . 
When I wander , her gentler spirit ever restores me , and keeps before my eyes the Christian calling and mission of our race . 
But I have considered , and counted the cost . 
I go to Liberia , not as an Elysium of romance , but as to a field of work . 
I expect to work with both hands , to work hard to work against all sorts of difficulties and discouragements and to work till I die . 
This is what I go for and in this I am quite sure I shall not be disappointed . 
George , with his wife , children , sister and mother , embarked for Africa , some few weeks after . 
If we are not mistaken , the world will yet hear from him there . 
Miss Ophelia took Topsy home to Vermont with her , much to the surprise of the grave deliberative body whom a New Englander recognizes under the term Our folks . 
Being a young man of energy , he had escaped , some years before his mother , and been received and educated by friends of the oppressed in the north . 
He will soon follow his family to Africa . 
CHAPTER XLIV The Liberator George Shelby had written to his mother merely a line , stating the day that she might expect him home . 
Of the death scene of his old friend he had not the heart to write . 
He had tried several times , and only succeeded in half choking himself and invariably finished by tearing up the paper , wiping his eyes , and rushing somewhere to get quiet . 
There was a pleased bustle all though the Shelby mansion , that day , in expectation of the arrival of young Mas'r George . 
Mrs. Shelby was seated in her comfortable parlor , where a cheerful hickory fire was dispelling the chill of the late autumn evening . 
A supper table , glittering with plate and cut glass , was set out , on whose arrangements our former friend , old Chloe , was presiding . 
Laws , now ! won't it look natural to him ? she said . 
Thar , I set his plate just whar he likes it , round by the fire . 
Mas'r George allers wants de warm seat . 
Yes , Chloe but only a line , just to say he would be home tonight , if he could , that's all . 
Didn't say nothin' 'bout my old man , s'pose ? said Chloe , still fidgeting with the tea cups . 
He did not speak of anything , Chloe . 
He said he would tell all , when he got home . 
Jes like Mas'r George , he's allers so ferce for tellin' everything hisself . 
I allers minded dat ar in Mas'r George . 
Don't see , for my part , how white people gen'lly can bar to hev to write things much as they do , writin' 's such slow , oneasy kind o' work . 
I'm a thinkin' my old man won't know de boys and de baby . 
Lor' ! she's de biggest gal , now , good she is , too , and peart , Polly is . 
She's out to the house , now , watchin' de hoe cake . 
I 's got jist de very pattern my old man liked so much , a bakin' . 
Jist sich as I gin him the mornin' he was took off . 
Lord bless us ! how I felt , dat ar morning ! Mrs. Shelby sighed , and felt a heavy weight on her heart , at this allusion . 
She had felt uneasy , ever since she received her son's letter , lest something should prove to be hidden behind the veil of silence which he had drawn . 
Missis has got dem bills ? said Chloe , anxiously . 
'Cause I wants to show my old man dem very bills de perfectioner gave me . 
And , say he , Chloe , I wish you'd stay longer . 
Thank you , Mas'r , says I , I would , only my old man's coming home , and Missis , she can't do without me no longer . 
There's jist what I telled him . 
Berry nice man , dat Mas'r Jones was . 
Chloe had pertinaciously insisted that the very bills in which her wages had been paid should be preserved , to show her husband , in memorial of her capability . 
And Mrs. Shelby had readily consented to humor her in the request . 
He won't know Polly , my old man won't . 
Laws , it's five year since they tuck him ! She was a baby den , couldn't but jist stand . 
Remember how tickled he used to be , cause she would keep a fallin' over , when she sot out to walk . 
Laws a me ! The rattling of wheels now was heard . 
Mas'r George ! said Aunt Chloe , starting to the window . 
Mrs. Shelby ran to the entry door , and was folded in the arms of her son . 
Aunt Chloe stood anxiously straining her eyes out into the darkness . 
There was a passionate exclamation from Mrs. Shelby , but Aunt Chloe said nothing . 
The party entered the supper room . 
The money , of which Chloe was so proud , was still lying on the table . 
Thar , said she , gathering it up , and holding it , with a trembling hand , to her mistress , don't never want to see nor hear on 't again . 
Jist as I knew 't would be , sold , and murdered on dem ar' old plantations ! Chloe turned , and was walking proudly out of the room . 
Mrs. Shelby followed her softly , and took one of her hands , drew her down into a chair , and sat down by her . 
My poor , good Chloe ! said she . 
He healeth the broken hearted , and bindeth up their wounds . 
There was a silence for some time , and all wept together . 
Many , however , pressed around him , earnestly begging him not to send them away and , with anxious faces , tendering back their free papers . 
We don't want to be no freer than we are . 
We's allers had all we wanted . 
The place wants as many hands to work it as it did before . 
We need the same about the house that we did before . 
But , you are now free men and free women . 
I shall pay you wages for your work , such as we shall agree on . 
The advantage is , that in case of my getting in debt , or dying , things that might happen , you cannot now be taken up and sold . 
I expect you to be good , and willing to learn and I trust in God that I shall be faithful , and willing to teach . 
And now , my friends , look up , and thank God for the blessing of freedom . 
On rising , another struck up a Methodist hymn , of which the burden was , The year of Jubilee is come , Return , ye ransomed sinners , home . 
So , when you rejoice in your freedom , think that you owe it to that good old soul , and pay it back in kindness to his wife and children . 
She or her friends have observed characters the counterpart of almost all that are here introduced and many of the sayings are word for word as heard herself , or reported to her . 
The personal appearance of Eliza , the character ascribed to her , are sketches drawn from life . 
The incorruptible fidelity , piety and honesty , of Uncle Tom , had more than one development , to her personal knowledge . 
Some of the most deeply tragic and romantic , some of the most terrible incidents , have also their paralle in reality . 
The incident of the mother's crossing the Ohio river on the ice is a well known fact . 
From the same source was derived the character of the planter Legree . 
When I left the plantation , I drew a long breath , and felt as if I had escaped from an ogre's den . 
That the tragical fate of Tom , also , has too many times had its parallel , there are living witnesses , all over our land , to testify . 
There is , actually , nothing to protect the slave's life , but the character of the master . 
Facts too shocking to be contemplated occasionally force their way to the public ear , and the comment that one often hears made on them is more shocking than the thing itself . 
It is said , Very likely such cases may now and then occur , but they are no sample of general practice . 
The public and shameless sale of beautiful mulatto and quadroon girls has acquired a notoriety , from the incidents following the capture of the Pearl . 
We extract the following from the speech of Hon . 
Horace Mann , one of the legal counsel for the defendants in that case . 
Elizabeth Russel was one of them . 
She immediately fell into the slave trader's fangs , and was doomed for the New Orleans market . 
The hearts of those that saw her were touched with pity for her fate . 
She was despatched to New Orleans but , when about half way there , God had mercy on her , and smote her with death . 
There were two girls named Edmundson in the same company . 
He bantered her , telling what fine dresses and fine furniture they would have . 
Clare are not without a parallel , as the following anecdote will show . 
A few years since , a young southern gentleman was in Cincinnati , with a favorite servant , who had been his personal attendant from a boy . 
The young man took advantage of this opportunity to secure his own freedom , and fled to the protection of a Quaker , who was quite noted in affairs of this kind . 
The owner was exceedingly indignant . 
He visited the Quaker , in high anger but , being possessed of uncommon candor and fairness , was soon quieted by his arguments and representations . 
An interview was forthwith procured , and Nathan was asked by his young master whether he had ever had any reason to complain of his treatment , in any respect . 
No , Mas'r , said Nathan you've always been good to me . 
Well , then , why do you want to leave me ? Mas'r may die , and then who get me ? I'd rather be a free man . 
After some deliberation , the young master replied , Nathan , in your place , I think I should feel very much so , myself . 
That letter was for some time in the writer's hands . 
The author hopes she has done justice to that nobility , generosity , and humanity , which in many cases characterize individuals at the , South . 
Such instances save us from utter despair of our kind . 
And from this arose a desire to exhibit it in a living dramatic reality . 
She has endeavored to show it fairly , in its best and its worst phases . 
But a slave trade , as systematic as ever was carried on on the coast of Africa , is an inevitable attendant and result of American slavery . 
There are those living who know the mothers whom this accursed traffic has driven to the murder of their children and themselves seeking in death a shelter from woes more dreaded than death . 
But , what can any individual do ? Of that , every individual can judge . 
There is one thing that every individual can do , they can see to it that they feel right . 
They come to seek a refuge among you they come to seek education , knowledge , Christianity . 
The writer has lived , for many years , on the frontier line of slave states , and has had great opportunities of observation among those who formerly were slaves . 
The first desire of the emancipated slave , generally , is for education . 
The results of schools , founded for them by benevolent individuals in Cincinnati , fully establish this . 
The initial letters alone are given . 
They are all residents of Cincinnati . 
Furniture maker twenty years in the city worth ten thousand dollars , all his own earnings a Baptist . 
Three fourths black barber and waiter from Kentucky nineteen years free paid for self and family over three thousand dollars deacon in the Baptist church . 
Three fourths black white washer from Kentucky nine years free paid fifteen hundred dollars for self and family recently died , aged sixty worth six thousand dollars . 
Professor Stowe says , With all these , except G , I have been , for some years , personally acquainted , and make my statements from my own knowledge . 
The writer well remembers an aged colored woman , who was employed as a washerwoman in her father's family . 
The daughter of this woman married a slave . 
She yet wanted a hundred dollars of the price , when he died . 
She never recovered any of the money . 
And let it be remembered that these individuals have thus bravely succeeded in conquering for themselves comparative wealth and social position , in the face of every disadvantage and discouragement . 
Nor are these instances confined to the State of Ohio . 
Pennington , among clergymen , Douglas and Ward , among editors , are well known instances . 
A mighty influence is abroad , surging and heaving the world , as with an earthquake . 
And is America safe ? Every nation that carries in its bosom great and unredressed injustice has in it the elements of this last convulsion . 
Both North and South have been guilty before God and the Christian church has a heavy account to answer . 
