This etext was prepared with the use of Calera WordScan Plus . 
James if the election comes his way , and the office boy is betting his wages that it won't . 
Lower it , lower it , can't you ? This to the man in the flies . 
Any other night goes , but not this night . 
The star saw him in the long mirror before which he sat , while his dresser tugged at his boots , and threw up his hands desperately . 
Then he dropped into a big arm chair in the corner , and got up again with a protesting sigh to light his cigar between the wires around the gas burner . 
Oh , it's going very well . 
I wouldn't have come around if it wasn't . 
If the rest of it is as good as the first act , you needn't worry . 
Van Bibber's unchallenged freedom behind the scenes had been a source of much comment and perplexity to the members of the Lester Comic Opera Company . 
He had made his first appearance there during one hot night of the long run of the previous summer , and had continued to be an almost nightly visitor for several weeks . 
And in this the second comedian was unknowingly not so very far wrong . 
To the company , after he came to know them , he was gravely polite , and , to those who knew him if they had overheard , amusingly commonplace in his conversation . 
He understood them better than they did themselves , and made no mistakes . 
The second act was on , and Lester came off the stage and ran to the dressing room and beckoned violently . 
Come here , he said you ought to see this the children are doing their turn . 
You want to hear them . 
They're great ! Van Bibber put his cigar into a tumbler and stepped out into the wings . 
There were over a dozen children before the footlights , with the prima donna in the centre . 
She was singing the verses of a song , and they were following her movements , and joining in the chorus with high piping voices . 
They seemed entirely too much at home and too self conscious to please Van Bibber but there was one exception . 
She was apparently as unconcerned to all about her , excepting the pretty prima donna , as though she were by a piano at home practising a singing lesson . 
She seemed to think it was some new sort of a game . 
She was as happy and innocent looking as though it were nine in the morning and she were playing school at a kindergarten . 
From all over the house the women were murmuring their delight , and the men were laughing and pulling their mustaches and nudging each other to look at the littlest one . 
That settles it ! cried Lester , in a suppressed roar of triumph . 
I knew that child would catch them . 
He turned from the pretty prima donna and hunted up the wardrobe woman , and told her he wanted to meet the Littlest Girl . 
The six little girls were in six different states of dishabille , but they were too little to mind that , and Van Bibber was too polite to observe it . 
This is the little girl , sir , said the wardrobe woman , excitedly , proud at being the means of bringing together two such prominent people . 
Speak to the gentleman , Madeline he wants to tell you what a great big hit youse made . 
The young woman looked at Van Bibber and nodded somewhat doubtfully and ungraciously , and Van Bibber turned to the little girl in preference . 
The young woman's face was one of a type that was too familiar to be pleasant . 
He took the Littlest Girl's small hand in his and shook it solemnly , and said , I am very glad to know you . 
Can I sit up here beside you , or do you rule alone ? Yes , ma'am yes , sir , answered the little girl . 
Van Bibber put his hands on the arms of the throne and vaulted up beside the girl , and pulled out the flower in his button hole and gave it to her . 
Now , prompted the wardrobe woman , what do you say to the gentleman ? Thank you , sir , stammered the little girl . 
She is not much used to gentlemen's society , explained the woman who was pulling on the stockings . 
I see , said Van Bibber . 
He did not know exactly what to say next . 
With them he had no difficulty whatsoever . 
There was a doll lying on the top of a chest near them , and he picked this up and surveyed it critically . 
Is this your doll ? he asked . 
No , said Madeline , pointing to one of the children , who was much taller than herself it's 'at 'ittle durl's . 
Dear me ! said Van Bibber . 
He made a mental note to get a live one in the morning , and then he said That's very sad . 
But dead dolls do come to life . 
The young woman understood this , and deigned to smile at it , but Madeline yawned a very polite and sleepy yawn , and closed her eyes . 
She's not used to it , you see , said the young woman , knowingly she don't know what it means . 
It's just that much play to her . 
This last was said with a questioning glance at Van Bibber , in whom she still feared to find the disguised agent of a Children's Aid Society . 
Does she come of professional people ? Van Bibber asked , dropping into the vernacular . 
He spoke softly , not so much that he might not disturb the child , but that she might not understand what he said . 
Yes , the woman answered , shortly , and bent her head to smooth out the child's stage dress across her knees . 
Van Bibber touched the little girl's head with his hand and found that she was asleep , and so let his hand rest there , with the curls between his fingers . 
Are are you her mother ? he asked , with a slight inclination of his head . 
He felt quite confident she was not at least , he hoped not . 
The woman shook her head . 
Who is her mother ? The woman looked at the sleeping child and then up at him almost defiantly . 
Ida Clare was her mother , she said . 
He looked back at her with a glance of the strangest concern and of the deepest pity . 
And who takes care of her now ? he asked . 
The woman straightened herself and seemed relieved . 
She saw that the stranger had recognized the child's pedigree and knew her story , and that he was not going to comment on it . 
I do , she said . 
After the divorce Ida came to me , she said , speaking more freely . 
I used to be in her company when she was doing Aladdin , and then when I left the stage and started to keep an actors' boarding house , she came to me . 
She lived on with us a year , until she died , and she made me the guardian of the child . 
I train children for the stage , you know , me and my sister , Ada Dyer you've heard of her , I guess . 
The courts pay us for her keep , but it isn't much , and I'm expecting to get what I spent on her from what she makes on the stage . 
Two of them other children are my pupils but they can't touch Madie . 
She is a better dancer an' singer than any of them . 
If it hadn't been for the Society keeping her back , she would have been on the stage two years ago . 
She's great , she is . 
She'll be just as good as her mother was . 
Van Bibber gave a little start , and winced visibly , but turned it off into a cough . 
And her father , he said hesitatingly , does he Her father , said the woman , tossing back her head , he looks after himself , he does . 
We don't ask no favors of HIM . 
She'll get along without him or his folks , thank you . 
Call him a gentleman ? Nice gentleman he is ! Then she stopped abruptly . 
I guess , though , you know him , she added . 
Perhaps he's a friend of yourn ? I just know him , said Van Bibber , wearily . 
He sat with the child asleep beside him while the woman turned to the others and dressed them for the third act . 
She explained that Madie would not appear in the last act , only the two larger girls , so she let her sleep , with the cape of Van Bibber's cloak around her . 
The sister you spoke of or some one could put her to bed . 
Yes , the woman said , doubtfully , Ada's home . 
Yes , you can take her around , if you want to . 
She gave him the address , and he sprang down to the floor , and gathered the child up in his arms and stepped out on the stage . 
Don't , said Van Bibber , he could not tell just why . 
Why not ? asked one of the girls , looking up at him sharply . 
She was asleep you've wakened her , he said , gently . 
But he knew that was not the reason . 
He stepped into the cab at the stage entrance , and put the child carefully down in one corner . 
He picked the child up gently in his arms as the carriage started , and sat looking out thoughtfully and anxiously as they flashed past the lighted shop windows on Broadway . 
He was far from certain of this errand , and nervous with doubt , but he reassured himself that he was acting on impulse , and that his impulses were so often good . 
The hall boy at the Berkeley said , yes , Mr. Caruthers was in , and Van Bibber gave a quick sigh of relief . 
He took this as an omen that his impulse was a good one . 
Just say Mr. Van Bibber would like to see him , he said , and you need not speak of the little girl having come with me . 
She was still sleeping , and Van Bibber turned down the light in the hall , and stood looking down at her gravely while the servant went to speak to his master . 
Will you come this way , please , sir ? he said . 
You had better stay out here , said Van Bibber , and come and tell me if she wakes . 
Mr. Caruthers was standing by the mantel over the empty fireplace , wrapped in a long , loose dressing gown which he was tying around him as Van Bibber entered . 
He was partly undressed , and had been just on the point of getting into bed . 
But even in the formless dressing gown he had the look and the confident bearing of a gentleman , or , at least , of the man of the world . 
From below in the streets came the rattle of hurrying omnibuses and the rush of the hansom cabs . 
If Mr. Caruthers was surprised at this late visit , he hid it , and came forward to receive his caller as if his presence were expected . 
Excuse my costume , will you ? he said . 
I turned in rather early to night , it was so hot . 
No , I think not , thank you , said the younger man . 
He touched his forehead with his handkerchief nervously . 
Yes , it is hot , he said . 
I was at the first night of The Sultana' this evening , said Van Bibber , slowly and uncertainly . 
Oh , yes , assented the elder man , politely , and tasting his drink . 
Was it any good ? I don't know , said Van Bibber . 
Yes , I think it was . 
I didn't see it from the front . 
There were a lot of children in it little ones they danced and sang , and made a great hit . 
One of them had never been on the stage before . 
It was her first appearance . 
He was turning one of the glasses around between his fingers as he spoke . 
He stopped , and poured out some of the soda , and drank it down in a gulp , and then continued turning the empty glass between the tips of his fingers . 
It seems to me , he said , that it is a great pity . 
He looked up interrogatively at the other , but Mr. Caruthers met his glance without any returning show of interest . 
I say , repeated Van Bibber I say it seems a pity that a child like that should be allowed to go on in that business . 
A grown woman can go into it with her eyes open , or a girl who has had decent training can too . 
But it's different with a child . 
And then it's too late . 
It seems to me a responsibility I wouldn't care to take myself . 
I wouldn't care to think that I had the chance to stop it , and had let the chance go by . 
What is all this about ? he asked . 
What child ? Your child , said Van Bibber . 
Young Van Bibber was quite prepared for an outbreak of some sort , and mentally braced himself to receive it . 
He rapidly assured himself that this man had every reason to be angry , and that he , if he meant to accomplish anything , had every reason to be considerate and patient . 
So he faced Mr. Caruthers with shoulders squared , as though it were a physical shock he had to stand against , and in consequence he was quite unprepared for what followed . 
When he spoke , it was in a tone of quiet politeness . 
Mr. Van Bibber , he began , you are a very brave young man . 
You have dared to say to me what those who are my best friends what even my own family would not care to say . 
They are afraid it might hurt me , I suppose . 
They have some absurd regard for my feelings they hesitate to touch upon a subject which in no way concerns them , and which they know must be very painful to me . 
You have rushed in where angels fear to tread , Mr. Van Bibber , to show me the error of my ways . 
We know them we can prepare for them , and checkmate them . 
It is the well meaning fool who makes all the trouble . 
For no one knows him until he discloses himself , and the mischief is done before he can be stopped . 
Van Bibber had flushed at Mr. Caruthers's first words , and had then grown somewhat pale , and straightened himself visibly . 
He did not move when the elder man had finished , but cleared his throat , and then spoke with some little difficulty . 
But that , you see , would not do any good , and I have something to say to you first . 
There will be time enough to resent it then . 
I should have been glad to learn of it even from a stranger . 
However , he said , smiling grimly , and pulling his cape about him , there are other kindly disposed people in the world besides fathers . 
There is an aunt , perhaps , or an uncle or two and sometimes , even to day , there is the chance Samaritan . 
Van Bibber picked up his high hat from the table , looked into it critically , and settled it on his head . 
Good night , he said , and walked slowly towards the door . 
He had his hand on the knob , when Mr. Caruthers raised his head . 
Wait just one minute , please , Mr. Van Bibber ? asked Mr. Caruthers . 
Van Bibber stopped with a prompt obedience which would have led one to conclude that he might have put on his hat only to precipitate matters . 
Before you go , said Mr. Caruthers , grudgingly , I want to say I want you to understand my position . 
Oh , that's all right , said Van Bibber , lightly , opening the door . 
No , it is not all right . 
Since you have done me the honor to make my affairs your business , I would prefer that you should understand them fully . 
Oh , I wouldn't say that if I were you , he said , simply . 
I beg your pardon , the older man said , quickly . 
But you have tried me very sorely . 
You have intruded upon a private trouble that you ought to know must be very painful to me . 
But I believe you meant well . 
I know you to be a gentleman , and I am willing to think you acted on impulse , and that you will see to morrow what a mistake you have made . 
It is not a thing I talk about I do not speak of it to my friends , and they are far too considerate to speak of it to me . 
But you have put me on the defensive . 
You have made me out more or less of a brute , and I don't intend to be so far misunderstood . 
There are two sides to every story , and there is something to be said about this , even for me . 
He walked back to his place beside the mantel , and put his shoulders against it , and faced Van Bibber , with his fingers twisted in the cord around his waist . 
When I married , said Mr. Caruthers , I did so against the wishes of my people and the advice of all my friends . 
You know all about that . 
God help us ! who doesn't ? he added , bitterly . 
It was very rich , rare reading for you and for every one else who saw the daily papers , and we gave them all they wanted of it . 
It began over there in Paris . 
It was in the blood it was in the life she had led , and in the life men like you and me had taught her to live . 
And it had to come out . 
She had every chance when she married me that a woman ever had , continued the older man . 
It only depended on herself . 
I didn't try to make a housewife of her or a drudge . 
And I was and a husband that loved her as she had everything everything that a man's whole thought and love and money could bring to her . 
And you know what she did . 
He looked at Van Bibber , but Van Bibber's eyes were still turned towards the open window and the night . 
And I never saw her again , not even when she died . 
I can never trust any woman or child again , and least of all that woman's child . 
She is as dead to me as though she were buried with her mother , and it is nothing to me what she is or what her life is . 
I know in time what it will be . 
She has begun earlier than I had supposed , that is all but she is nothing to me . 
The man stopped and turned his back to Van Bibber , and hid his head in his hands , with his elbows on the mantelpiece . 
I care too much , he said . 
I cannot let it mean anything to me when I do care , it means so much more to me than to other men . 
They may pretend to laugh and to forget and to outgrow it , but it is not so with me . 
He took a quick stride towards one of the arm chairs , and threw himself into it . 
Why , man , he cried , I loved that child's mother to the day of her death . 
I loved that woman then , and , God help me ! I love that woman still . 
He covered his face with his hands , and sat leaning forward and breathing heavily as he rocked himself to and fro . 
Van Bibber still stood looking gravely out at the lights that picketed the black surface of the city . 
He was to all appearances as unmoved by the outburst of feeling into which the older man had been surprised as though it had been something in a play . 
There was an unbroken silence for a moment , and then it was Van Bibber who was the first to speak . 
I came here , as you say , on impulse , he said but I am glad I came , for I have your decisive answer now about the little girl . 
And it may be I'd like to try and get rid of some of mine . 
I know just where to send her I know the very place . 
It's down in Evergreen Bay , on Long Island . 
They are tenants of mine there , and very nice farm sort of people , who will be very good to her . 
As you say , it's a good deal of an experiment , but I think I'll run the risk . 
He walked quickly to the door and disappeared in the hall , and then came back , kicking the door open as he returned , and holding the child in his arms . 
This is she , he said , quietly . 
He did not look at or notice the father , but stood , with the child asleep in the bend of his left arm , gazing down at her . 
This is she , he repeated this is your child . 
He might have been a disinterested looker on . 
She will need to be fed a bit , Van Bibber ran on , cheerfully . 
They did not treat her very well , I fancy . 
She is thin and peaked and tired looking . 
He drew up the loose sleeve of her jacket , and showed the bare forearm to the light . 
He put his thumb and little finger about it , and closed them on it gently . 
It is very thin , he said . 
And under her eyes , if it were not for the paint , he went on , mercilessly , you could see how deep the lines are . 
You have heard of them , perhaps . 
They will never kiss her again . 
She does not look like her mother , he said she has her father's auburn hair and straight nose and finer cut lips and chin . 
She looks very much like her father . 
It seems a pity , he added , abruptly . 
She will grow up , he went on , without knowing him , or who he is or was , if he should die . 
She will never speak with him , or see him , or take his hand . 
The child in his arms stirred , shivered slightly , and awoke . 
The two men watched her breathlessly , with silent intentness . 
The father sprang to his feet with a quick , jealous gasp of pain . 
Give her to me ! he said , fiercely , under his breath , snatching her out of Van Bibber's arms . 
She is mine give her to me ! Van Bibber closed the door gently behind him , and went jumping down the winding stairs of the Berkeley three steps at a time . 
James , he said , you can make up a place for me here on the lounge . 
Miss Caruthers , my daughter , will sleep in my room to night . 
Van Bibber's Man Servant Van Bibber's man Walters was the envy and admiration of his friends . 
He was now rather well on in years , although it would have been impossible to say just how old he was . 
Walters had a dignified and repellent air about him , and he brushed his hair in such a way as to conceal his baldness . 
Van Bibber could not say exactly , at least he could not rightly tell whether he had dismissed Walters or Walters had dismissed himself . 
So he conceived the idea of sending Walters over about half past six to keep a table for him . 
As everybody knows , you can hold a table yourself at Delmonico's for any length of time until the other guests arrive , but the rule is very strict about servants . 
But respect even from your equals and the satisfaction of having your fellow servants mistake you for a member of the Few Hundred are not enough . 
This was Walters's state of mind when Mr. Van Bibber told him for the hundredth time to keep a table for him for three at Delmonico's . 
Walters wrapped his severe figure in a frock coat and brushed his hair , and allowed himself the dignity of a walking stick . 
He would have liked to act as a substitute in an evening dress suit , but Van Bibber would not have allowed it . 
So Walters walked over to Delmonico's and took a table near a window , and said that the other gentlemen would arrive later . 
Then he looked at his watch and ordered the dinner . 
It was just the sort of dinner he would have ordered had he ordered it for himself at some one else's expense . 
As there were to be no women , he omitted the sweets and added three other wines to follow the white wine . 
It struck him as a particularly well chosen dinner , and the longer he sat and thought about it the more he wished he were to test its excellence . 
At that moment the servant deferentially handed him a note which a messenger boy had brought . 
It said Dinner off called out town send clothes and things after me to Young's Boston . 
Walters rose involuntarily , and then sat still to think about it . 
And then Walters was tempted . 
He met the waiter's anxious look with a grave smile . 
The other gentlemen will not be with me to night , he said , glancing at the note . 
But I will dine here as I intended . 
You can serve for one . 
That was perhaps the proudest night in the history of Walters . 
He had always felt that he was born out of his proper sphere , and to night he was assured of it . 
Van Bibber pulled out a chair and dropped into it . 
His side was towards Walters , so that he did not see him . 
Walters ! said Van Bibber , what are you doing here ? Walters looked his guilt and rose stiffly . 
Walters rose and left the half finished cigar and the mint with the ice melting in it on the table . 
His one evening of sublimity was over , and he walked away , bending before the glance of his young master and the smiles of his master's friends . 
If he had only gone off with all my waistcoats and scarf pins , I'd have liked it better , said Van Bibber , than his leaving me cash for infernal dinner . 
Why , a servant like Walters is worth twenty eight dollar dinners twice a day . 
The Hungry Man was Fed Young Van Bibber broke one of his rules of life one day and came down town . 
This unusual journey into the marts of trade and finance was in response to a call from his lawyer , who wanted his signature to some papers . 
It was five years since Van Bibber had been south of the north side of Washington Square , except as a transient traveller to the ferries on the elevated road . 
He rather enjoyed the novelty of the situation , and after he had completed his business at the lawyer's office he tried to stroll along lower Broadway as he did on the Avenue . 
And so he decided to get back to his club window and its quiet as soon as possible . 
If you'll kindly tell me how I can get back to civilization again , be obliged to you . 
Take the elevated from Park Place , said his friend from over his shoulder , as he nodded and dived into the crowd . 
I've come all the way from Chicago , said the Object , and I haven't tasted food for twenty four hours . 
Van Bibber drew away as though the Object had a contagious disease in his rags , and handed him a quarter without waiting to receive the man's blessing . 
Poor devil ! said Van Bibber . 
Van Bibber's ideas of a dinner were rather exalted . 
He did not know of places where a quarter was good for a square meal , including one roast , three vegetables , and pie . 
He hardly considered a quarter a sufficiently large tip for the waiter who served the dinner , and decidedly not enough for the dinner itself . 
He did not see his man at first , and when he did the man did not see him . 
Van Bibber watched him stop three gentlemen , two of whom gave him some money , and then the Object approached Van Bibber and repeated his sad tale in a monotone . 
This retracing of his footsteps had confused Van Bibber , and he made a complete circuit of the block before he discovered that he had lost his bearings . 
When Van Bibber faced him the beggar looked uneasy . 
Nothing to eat for twenty four hours ! Dear me ! drawled the clubman , sympathetically . 
Haven't you any money , either ? Not a cent , groaned the Object , an' I'm just faint for food , sir . 
I hate to beg , sir . 
It isn't the money I want , it's jest food . 
Well , said Van Bibber , suddenly , if it is just something to eat you want , come in here with me and I'll give you your breakfast . 
But the man held back and began to whine and complain that they wouldn't let the likes of him in such a fine place . 
Oh , yes , they will , said Van Bibber , glancing at the bill of fare in front of the place . 
It seems to be extremely cheap . 
Beefsteak fifteen cents , for instance . 
Go in , he added , and there was something in his tone which made the Object move ungraciously into the eating house . 
You ain't going to eat two breakfasts , are yer ? asked one of the very tough looking waiters of the Object . 
The Object looked uneasy , and Van Bibber , who stood beside his chair , smiled in triumph . 
You're mistaken , he said to the waiter . 
This gentleman is starving he has not tasted food for twenty four hours . 
The Object ordered milk , but Van Bibber protested and ordered two beefsteaks and fried potatoes , hot rolls and two omelettes , coffee , and ham with bacon . 
Holy smoke ! watcher think I am ? yelled the Object , in desperation . 
Hungry , said Van Bibber , very gently . 
And , you know , if you should happen to be the latter , I should have to hand you over to the police . 
Van Bibber leaned easily against the wall and read the signs about him , and kept one eye on a policeman across the street . 
The Object was choking and cursing through his breakfast . 
It did not seem to agree with him . 
Whenever he stopped Van Bibber would point with his stick to a still unfinished dish , and the Object , after a husky protest , would attack it as though it were poison . 
The people sitting about were laughing , and the proprietor behind the desk smiling grimly . 
There , darn ye ! said the Object at last . 
I've eat all I can eat for a year . 
You think you're mighty smart , don't ye ? But if you choose to pay that high for your fun , I s'pose you can afford it . 
Only don't let me catch you around these streets after dark , that's all . 
And the Object started off , shaking his fist . 
Wait a minute , said Van Bibber . 
You haven't paid them for your breakfast . 
Haven't what ? shouted the Object . 
Paid 'em ! How could I pay him ? Youse asked me to come in here and eat . 
I didn't want no breakfast , did I ? Youse'll have to pay for your fun yerself , or they'll throw yer out . 
Don't try to be too smart . 
I gave you , said Van Bibber , slowly , seventy five cents with which to buy a breakfast . 
This check calls for eighty five cents , and extremely cheap it is , he added , with a bow to the fat proprietor . 
Several other gentlemen , on your representation that you were starving , gave you other sums to be expended on a breakfast . 
You have the money with you now . 
So pay what you owe at once , or I'll call that officer across the street and tell him what I know , and have you put where you belong . 
I'll see you blowed first ! gasped the Object . 
Van Bibber turned to the waiter . 
Kindly beckon to that officer , said he . 
The waiter ran to the door and the Object ran too , but the tough waiter grabbed him by the back of his neck and held him . 
Lemme go ! yelled the Object . 
Lemme go an' I'll pay you . 
You have forgotten the waiter who served you , said Van Bibber , severely pointing with his stick at the dime . 
No , you don't , groaned the Object . 
He was most remarkable waiter . 
He did this , it may be remembered , by shutting his eyes and holding on by the horse's mane and letting the horse go as it pleased . 
Her whole interest , indeed , was centred in a dog , a Scotch collie called Duncan . 
She allowed this dog every liberty , and made a decided nuisance of him for every one , around her . 
He always went with her when she walked , or trotted beside her horse when she rode . 
He stretched himself before the fire in the dining room , and startled people at table by placing his cold nose against their hands or putting his paws on their gowns . 
On the morning of the afternoon on which Van Bibber and his bag arrived , the dog disappeared and could not be recovered . 
Van Bibber found the household in a state of much excitement in consequence , and his welcome was necessarily brief . 
The arriving guest was not to be considered at all with the departed dog . 
I think , said the young woman , after luncheon , that some of you men might be civil enough to offer to look for him . 
I'm sure he can't have gone far , or , if he has been stolen , the men who took him couldn't have gone very far away either . 
Now which of you will volunteer ? I'm sure you'll do it to please me . 
Mr. Van Bibber , now you say you're so clever . 
We're all the time hearing of your adventures . 
Why don't you show how full of expedients you are and rise to the occasion ? The suggestion of scorn in this speech nettled Van Bibber . 
I didn't suppose you'd take a dare like that , Van Bibber , said one of the men . 
Why , it's just the sort of thing you do so well . 
Yes , said another , I'll back you to find him if you try . 
Thanks , said Van Bibber , dryly . 
There seems to be a disposition on the part of the young men present to turn me into a dog catcher . 
I doubt whether this is altogether unselfish . 
Now , then , if any of you unselfish youths have any sporting blood , you will just name the sum . 
I feel just like a relief expedition to the North Pole . 
I think I ought to have some lieutenants , he suggested . 
The men said it did , and went off to put on their riding things , and four horses were saddled and brought around from the stable . 
Each of the four explorers was furnished with a long rope to tie to Duncan's collar , and with which he was to be led back if they found him . 
They were cheered ironically by the maidens they had deserted on compulsion , and were smiled upon severally by Miss Arnett . 
Then they separated and took different roads . 
It was snowing gently , and was very cold . 
Van Bibber drove aimlessly ahead , looking to the right and left and scanning each back yard and side street . 
Every now and then he hailed some passing farm wagon and asked the driver if he had seen a stray collie dog , but the answer was invariably in the negative . 
He soon left the village in the rear , and plunged out over the downs . 
The wind was bitter cold , and swept from the water with a chill that cut through his clothes . 
Oh , this is great , said Van Bibber to the patient horse in front of him this IS sport , this is . 
The next time I come to this part of the world I'll be dragged here with a rope . 
Nice , hospitable people those Arnetts , aren't they ? Ask you to make yourself at home chasing dogs over an ice fjord . 
Don't know when I've enjoyed myself so much . 
Twice he came across one of the other men , shivering and swearing from his saddle , and with teeth chattering . 
Well , said one of them , shuddering , you haven't found that dog yet , I see . 
No , said Van Bibber . 
I've given up looking for the dog . 
I'm just driving around enjoying myself . 
The air's so invigorating , and I like to feel the snow settling between my collar and the back of my neck . 
At four o'clock Van Bibber was about as nearly frozen as a man could be after he had swallowed half a bottle of brandy . 
It was so cold that the ice formed on his cigar when he took it from his lips , and his feet and the dashboard seemed to have become stuck together . 
I think I'll give it up , he said , finally , as he turned the horse's head towards Southampton . 
At seven he saw the four riders coming back dejectedly , and without the dog . 
He has , has he ? said the voice . 
Well , he's got sporting blood , and he'll need to keep it at fever heat if he expects to live . 
I'm frozen so that I can't bend my fingers . 
Van Bibber smiled , and moved comfortably in the big chair he had dozed a little , and was feeling very contented . 
The snow had stopped falling , and everything lay quiet and still as though it were cut in marble . 
And then suddenly across the lawn , came a black , bedraggled object on four legs , limping painfully , and lifting its feet as though there were lead on them . 
Great heavens ! cried Van Bibber , it 's the dog ! He was out of the room in a moment and down into the hall . 
He heard the murmur of voices in the drawing room , and the sympathetic tones of the women who were pitying the men . 
Van Bibber pulled on his overshoes and a great coat that covered him from his ears to his ankles , and dashed out into the snow . 
The dog had just enough spirit left to try and dodge him , and with a leap to one side went off again across the lawn . 
It was , as Van Bibber knew , but three minutes to eight o'clock , and have the dog he must and would . 
How is this ? shouted Van Bibber , holding up one hand and clasping the dog under his other arm . 
But you must be frozen to death , said Miss Arnett , looking up at him with gratitude in her eyes . 
Yes , yes , said Van Bibber , beginning to shiver . 
I've had a terrible long walk , and I had to carry him all the way . 
If you'll excuse me , I'll go change my things . 
He reappeared again in a suspiciously short time for one who had to change outright , and the men admired his endurance and paid up the bet . 
Where did you find him , Van ? one of them asked . 
Oh , yes , they all chorused . 
Where was he ? That , said Mr. Van Bibber , is a thing known to only two beings , Duncan and myself . 
Duncan can't tell , and I won't . 
If I did , you'd say I was trying to make myself out clever , and I never boast about the things I do . 
