etext of Vanity Fair Contact Juli Rew , juliana ncar . 
bawling in front of their booths , and yokels looking up at the tinselled dancers and poor old rouged tumblers , while the light fingered folk are operating upon their pockets behind . 
Yes , this is VANITY FAIR not a moral place certainly nor a merry one , though very noisy . 
When you come home you sit down in a sober , contemplative , not uncharitable frame of mind , and apply yourself to your books or your business . 
I have no other moral than this to tag to the present story of Vanity Fair . 
Some people consider Fairs immoral altogether , and eschew such , with their servants and families very likely they are right . 
He is proud to think that his Puppets have given satisfaction to the very best company in this empire . 
And with this , and a profound bow to his patrons , the Manager retires , and the curtain rises . 
It is Mrs. Sedley's coach , sister , said Miss Jemima . 
Sambo , the black servant , has just rung the bell and the coachman has a new red waistcoat . 
The girls were up at four this morning , packing her trunks , sister , replied Miss Jemima we have made her a bow pot . 
Say a bouquet , sister Jemima , 'tis more genteel . 
And I trust , Miss Jemima , you have made a copy of Miss Sedley's account . 
This is it , is it ? Very good ninety three pounds , four shillings . 
Be kind enough to address it to John Sedley , Esquire , and to seal this billet which I have written to his lady . 
In Miss Jemima's eyes an autograph letter of her sister , Miss Pinkerton , was an object of as deep veneration as would have been a letter from a sovereign . 
In music , in dancing , in orthography , in every variety of embroidery and needlework , she will be found to have realized her friends' fondest wishes . 
It is particularly requested that Miss Sharp's stay in Russell Square may not exceed ten days . 
The family of distinction with whom she is engaged , desire to avail themselves of her services as soon as possible . 
On the cover was inserted a copy of Lines addressed to a young lady on quitting Miss Pinkerton's school , at the Mall by the late revered Doctor Samuel Johnson . 
In fact , the Lexicographer's name was always on the lips of this majestic woman , and a visit he had paid to her was the cause of her reputation and her fortune . 
Being commanded by her elder sister to get the Dictionary from the cupboard , Miss Jemima had extracted two copies of the book from the receptacle in question . 
When Miss Pinkerton had finished the inscription in the first , Jemima , with rather a dubious and timid air , handed her the second . 
For whom is this , Miss Jemima ? said Miss Pinkerton , with awful coldness . 
For Becky Sharp , answered Jemima , trembling very much , and blushing over her withered face and neck , as she turned her back on her sister . 
For Becky Sharp she's going too . 
MISS JEMIMA ! exclaimed Miss Pinkerton , in the largest capitals . 
Are you in your senses ? Replace the Dixonary in the closet , and never venture to take such a liberty in future . 
Well , sister , it's only two and ninepence , and poor Becky will be miserable if she don't get one . 
Send Miss Sedley instantly to me , said Miss Pinkerton . 
And so venturing not to say another word , poor Jemima trotted off , exceedingly flurried and nervous . 
She had twelve intimate and bosom friends out of the twenty four young ladies . 
allowed that her figure was genteel and as for Miss Swartz , the rich woolly haired mulatto from St . 
Kitt's , on the day Amelia went away , she was in such a passion of tears that they were obliged to send for Dr . 
Floss , and half tipsify her with salvolatile . 
Such luxury of grief , however , is only allowed to parlour boarders . 
Honest Jemima had all the bills , and the washing , and the mending , and the puddings , and the plate and crockery , and the servants to superintend . 
abound in villains of the most sombre sort , that we are to have for a constant companion so guileless and good natured a person . 
So that when the day of departure came , between her two customs of laughing and crying , Miss Sedley was greatly puzzled how to act . 
She was glad to go home , and yet most woefully sad at leaving school . 
For three days before , little Laura Martin , the orphan , followed her about like a little dog . 
, took her friend's hand and said , looking up in her face wistfully , Amelia , when I write to you I shall call you Mamma . 
All which details , I have no doubt , JONES , who reads this book at his Club , will pronounce to be excessively foolish , trivial , twaddling , and ultra sentimental . 
, taking out his pencil and scoring under the words foolish , twaddling , c . 
, and adding to them his own remark of QUITE TRUE . 
Well , he is a lofty man of genius , and admires the great and heroic in life and novels and so had better take warning and go elsewhere . 
, she said , Miss Sharp , I wish you a good morning . 
In fact , it was a little battle between the young lady and the old one , and the latter was worsted . 
Heaven bless you , my child , said she , embracing Amelia , and scowling the while over the girl's shoulder at Miss Sharp . 
Come away , Becky , said Miss Jemima , pulling the young woman away in great alarm , and the drawing room door closed upon them for ever . 
Then came the struggle and parting below . 
Words refuse to tell it . 
The embracing was over they parted that is , Miss Sedley parted from her friends . 
Miss Sharp had demurely entered the carriage some minutes before . 
Nobody cried for leaving HER . 
Sambo of the bandy legs slammed the carriage door on his young weeping mistress . 
He sprang up behind the carriage . 
Stop ! cried Miss Jemima , rushing to the gate with a parcel . 
It's some sandwiches , my dear , said she to Amelia . 
God bless you ! And the kind creature retreated into the garden , overcome with emotion . 
But , lo ! and just as the coach drove off , Miss Sharp put her pale face out of the window and actually flung the book back into the garden . 
This almost caused Jemima to faint with terror . 
Well , I never said she what an audacious Emotion prevented her from completing either sentence . 
The carriage rolled away the great gates were closed the bell rang for the dancing lesson . 
The world is before the two young ladies and so , farewell to Chiswick Mall . 
Nay , with some persons those awes and terrors of youth last for ever and ever . 
Fancy had carried him back five and fifty years in the course of that evening . 
Raine and his rod were just as awful to him in his heart , then , at sixty eight , as they had been at thirteen . 
How could you do so , Rebecca ? at last she said , after a pause . 
Why , do you think Miss Pinkerton will come out and order me back to the black hole ? said Rebecca , laughing . 
No but I hate the whole house , continued Miss Sharp in a fury . 
I hope I may never set eyes on it again . 
I wish it were in the bottom of the Thames , I do and if Miss Pinkerton were there , I wouldn't pick her out , that I wouldn't . 
Hush ! cried Miss Sedley . 
Why , will the black footman tell tales ? cried Miss Rebecca , laughing . 
He may go back and tell Miss Pinkerton that I hate her with all my soul and I wish he would and I wish I had a means of proving it , too . 
For two years I have only had insults and outrage from her . 
I have been treated worse than any servant in the kitchen . 
I have never had a friend or a kind word , except from you . 
I have been made to tend the little girls in the lower schoolroom , and to talk French to the Misses , until I grew sick of my mother tongue . 
But that talking French to Miss Pinkerton was capital fun , wasn't it ? She doesn't know a word of French , and was too proud to confess it . 
I believe it was that which made her part with me and so thank Heaven for French . 
And , to say the truth , she certainly was not . 
Miss Rebecca was not , then , in the least kind or placable . 
All the world used her ill , said this young misanthropist , and we may be pretty certain that persons whom all the world treats ill , deserve entirely the treatment they get . 
The world is a looking glass , and gives back to every man the reflection of his own face . 
Miss Sharp's father was an artist , and in that quality had given lessons of drawing at Miss Pinkerton's school . 
He was a clever man a pleasant companion a careless student with a great propensity for running into debt , and a partiality for the tavern . 
And curious it is that as she advanced in life this young lady's ancestors increased in rank and splendour . 
Rebecca's mother had had some education somewhere , and her daughter spoke French with purity and a Parisian accent . 
It was in those days rather a rare accomplishment , and led to her engagement with the orthodox Miss Pinkerton . 
By the side of many tall and bouncing young ladies in the establishment , Rebecca Sharp looked like a child . 
But she had the dismal precocity of poverty . 
But she never had been a girl , she said she had been a woman since she was eight years old . 
and how Miss Pinkerton would have raged had she seen the caricature of herself which the little mimic , Rebecca , managed to make out of her doll . 
The catastrophe came , and she was brought to the Mall as to her home . 
She had a little room in the garret , where the maids heard her walking and sobbing at night but it was with rage , and not with grief . 
She had not been much of a dissembler , until now her loneliness taught her to feign . 
What airs that girl gives herself , because she is an Earl's grand daughter , she said of one . 
How they cringe and bow to that Creole , because of her hundred thousand pounds ! I am a thousand times cleverer and more charming than that creature , for all her wealth . 
I am as well bred as the Earl's grand daughter , for all her fine pedigree and yet every one passes me by here . 
The girl refused and for the first time , and to the astonishment of the majestic mistress of the school . 
I am here to speak French with the children , Rebecca said abruptly , not to teach them music , and save money for you . 
Give me money , and I will teach them . 
Minerva was obliged to yield , and , of course , disliked her from that day . 
For five and thirty years , she said , and with great justice , I never have seen the individual who has dared in my own house to question my authority . 
I have nourished a viper in my bosom . 
A viper a fiddlestick , said Miss Sharp to the old lady , almost fainting with astonishment . 
You took me because I was useful . 
There is no question of gratitude between us . 
I hate this place , and want to leave it . 
I will do nothing here but what I am obliged to do . 
And in their further disputes she always returned to this point , Get me a situation we hate each other , and I am ready to go . 
Attempting once to scold her in public , Rebecca hit upon the before mentioned plan of answering her in French , which quite routed the old woman . 
I cannot , certainly , she said , find fault with Miss Sharp's conduct , except to myself and must allow that her talents and accomplishments are of a high order . 
As far as the head goes , at least , she does credit to the educational system pursued at my establishment . 
'' And so the schoolmistress reconciled the recommendation to her conscience , and the indentures were cancelled , and the apprentice was free . 
The battle here described in a few lines , of course , lasted for some months . 
, Miss Sharp was invited by her friend to pass a week with her at home , before she entered upon her duties as governess in a private family . 
Thus the world began for these two young ladies . 
For Amelia it was quite a new , fresh , brilliant world , with all the bloom upon it . 
But who can tell you the real truth of the matter ? At all events , if Rebecca was not beginning the world , she was beginning it over again . 
And when at length home was reached , Miss Amelia Sedley skipped out on Sambo's arm , as happy and as handsome a girl as any in the whole big city of London . 
Not alone , said Amelia you know , Rebecca , I shall always be your friend , and love you as a sister indeed I will . 
Isn't he very rich ? said Rebecca . 
They say all Indian nabobs are enormously rich . 
I believe he has a very large income . 
And is your sister in law a nice pretty woman ? La ! Joseph is not married , said Amelia , laughing again . 
She was quite disappointed that Mr. Sedley was not married she was sure Amelia had said he was , and she doted so on little children . 
But we must remember that she is but nineteen as yet , unused to the art of deceiving , poor innocent creature ! and making her own experience in her own person . 
And she determined within herself to make this laudable attempt . 
She redoubled her caresses to Amelia she kissed the white cornelian necklace as she put it on and vowed she would never , never part with it . 
When the dinner bell rang she went downstairs with her arm round her friend's waist , as is the habit of young ladies . 
She was so agitated at the drawing room door , that she could hardly find courage to enter . 
Feel my heart , how it beats , dear ! said she to her friend . 
No , it doesn't , said Amelia . 
Come in , don't be frightened . 
Papa won't do you any harm . 
It's only your sister , Joseph , said Amelia , laughing and shaking the two fingers which he held out . 
I've come home FOR GOOD , you know and this is my friend , Miss Sharp , whom you have heard me mention . 
He's very handsome , whispered Rebecca to Amelia , rather loud . 
Do you think so ? said the latter . 
Darling ! not for worlds , said Miss Sharp , starting back as timid as a fawn . 
Thank you for the beautiful shawls , brother , said Amelia to the fire poker . 
Are they not beautiful , Rebecca ? O heavenly ! said Miss Sharp , and her eyes went from the carpet straight to the chandelier . 
Joseph still continued a huge clattering at the poker and tongs , puffing and blowing the while , and turning as red as his yellow face would allow him . 
I can't make you such handsome presents , Joseph , continued his sister , but while I was at school , I have embroidered for you a very beautiful pair of braces . 
For heaven's sake see if my buggy's at the door . 
D that groom of mine . 
At this minute the father of the family walked in , rattling his seals like a true British merchant . 
What's the matter , Emmy ? says he . 
Joseph wants me to see if his his buggy is at the door . 
What is a buggy , Papa ? It is a one horse palanquin , said the old gentleman , who was a wag in his way . 
This young lady is your friend ? Miss Sharp , I am very happy to see you . 
Have you and Emmy been quarrelling already with Joseph , that he wants to be off ? I promised Bonamy of our service , sir , said Joseph , to dine with him . 
O fie ! didn't you tell your mother you would dine here ? But in this dress it's impossible . 
Did you ever see a pair of buckskins like those at Miss Pinkerton's ? continued he , following up his advantage . 
Gracious heavens ! Father , cried Joseph . 
There now , I have hurt his feelings . 
Mrs. Sedley , my dear , I have hurt your son's feelings . 
I have alluded to his buckskins . 
Ask Miss Sharp if I haven't ? Come , Joseph , be friends with Miss Sharp , and let us all go to dinner . 
There's a pillau , Joseph , just as you like it , and Papa has brought home the best turbot in Billingsgate . 
Boggley Wollah is situated in a fine , lonely , marshy , jungly district , famous for snipe shooting , and where not unfrequently you may flush a tiger . 
He did not live with his family while in London , but had lodgings of his own , like a gay young bachelor . 
Before he went to India he was too young to partake of the delightful pleasures of a man about town , and plunged into them on his return with considerable assiduity . 
he frequented the theatres , as the mode was in those days , or made his appearance at the opera , laboriously attired in tights and a cocked hat . 
But he was as lonely here as in his jungle at Boggley Wollah . 
He never was well dressed but he took the hugest pains to adorn his big person , and passed many hours daily in that occupation . 
Like most fat men , he would have his clothes made too tight , and took care they should be of the most brilliant colours and youthful cut . 
He was as vain as a girl and perhaps his extreme shyness was one of the results of his extreme vanity . 
If Miss Rebecca can get the better of him , and at her first entrance into life , she is a young person of no ordinary cleverness . 
The first move showed considerable skill . 
If you had told Sycorax that her son Caliban was as handsome as Apollo , she would have been pleased , witch as she was . 
the praise thrilled through every fibre of his big body , and made it tingle with pleasure . 
Then , however , came a recoil . 
He conducted the young lady down to dinner in a dubious and agitated frame of mind . 
Does she really think I am handsome ? thought he , or is she only making game of me ? We have talked of Joseph Sedley being as vain as a girl . 
Downstairs , then , they went , Joseph very red and blushing , Rebecca very modest , and holding her green eyes downwards . 
She was dressed in white , with bare shoulders as white as snow the picture of youth , unprotected innocence , and humble virgin simplicity . 
I must be very quiet , thought Rebecca , and very much interested about India . 
What is it ? said she , turning an appealing look to Mr. Joseph . 
His mouth was full of it his face quite red with the delightful exercise of gobbling . 
Mother , it's as good as my own curries in India . 
Oh , I must try some , if it is an Indian dish , said Miss Rebecca . 
I am sure everything must be good that comes from there . 
Give Miss Sharp some curry , my dear , said Mr. Sedley , laughing . 
Rebecca had never tasted the dish before . 
Do you find it as good as everything else from India ? said Mr. Sedley . 
Oh , excellent ! said Rebecca , who was suffering tortures with the cayenne pepper . 
Try a chili with it , Miss Sharp , said Joseph , really interested . 
A chili , said Rebecca , gasping . 
Oh yes ! She thought a chili was something cool , as its name imported , and was served with some . 
How fresh and green they look , she said , and put one into her mouth . 
It was hotter than the curry flesh and blood could bear it no longer . 
She laid down her fork . 
Water , for Heaven's sake , water ! she cried . 
They are real Indian , I assure you , said he . 
Sambo , give Miss Sharp some water . 
The paternal laugh was echoed by Joseph , who thought the joke capital . 
The ladies only smiled a little . 
They thought poor Rebecca suffered too much . 
Do you put cayenne into your cream tarts in India , sir ? Old Sedley began to laugh , and thought Rebecca was a good humoured girl . 
Joseph simply said , Cream tarts , Miss ? Our cream is very bad in Bengal . 
Pooh ! nonsense ! said Joe , highly flattered . 
'Done , says I and egad , sir this claret's very good . 
Adamson's or Carbonell's ? A slight snore was the only reply the honest stockbroker was asleep , and so the rest of Joseph's story was lost for that day . 
But he was always exceedingly communicative in a man's party , and has told this delightful tale many scores of times to his apothecary , Dr . 
Gollop , when he came to inquire about the liver and the blue pill . 
he thought a great deal about the girl upstairs . 
A nice , gay , merry young creature , thought he to himself . 
How she looked at me when I picked up her handkerchief at dinner ! She dropped it twice . 
Who's that singing in the drawing room ? 'Gad ! shall I go up and see ? But his modesty came rushing upon him with uncontrollable force . 
His father was asleep his hat was in the hall there was a hackney coach standing hard by in Southampton Row . 
There goes Joseph , said Amelia , who was looking from the open windows of the drawing room , while Rebecca was singing at the piano . 
Miss Sharp has frightened him away , said Mrs. Sedley . 
She was all respectful gratitude to Mrs. Sedley delighted beyond measure at the Bazaars and in a whirl of wonder at the theatre , whither the good natured lady took her . 
As for Mr. Sedley's jokes , Rebecca laughed at them with a cordiality and perseverance which not a little pleased and softened that good natured gentleman . 
Nor was it with the chiefs of the family alone that Miss Sharp found favour . 
Once , in looking over some drawings which Amelia had sent from school , Rebecca suddenly came upon one which caused her to burst into tears and leave the room . 
It was on the day when Joe Sedley made his second appearance . 
Amelia hastened after her friend to know the cause of this display of feeling , and the good natured girl came back without her companion , rather affected too . 
You know , her father was our drawing master , Mamma , at Chiswick , and used to do all the best parts of our drawings . 
My love ! I'm sure I always heard Miss Pinkerton say that he did not touch them he only mounted them . 
It was called mounting , Mamma . 
I wish she could stay with us another week , said Amelia . 
She's devilish like Miss Cutler that I used to meet at Dumdum , only fairer . 
She's married now to Lance , the Artillery Surgeon . 
Do you know , Ma'am , that once Quintin , of the th , bet me Joseph , we know that story , said Amelia , laughing . 
Never mind about telling that but persuade Mamma to write to Sir Something Crawley for leave of absence for poor dear Rebecca here she comes , her eyes red with weeping . 
I'm better , now , said the girl , with the sweetest smile possible , taking good natured Mrs. Sedley's extended hand and kissing it respectfully . 
How kind you all are to me ! All , she added , with a laugh , except you , Mr. Joseph . 
He doesn't know you so well , cried Amelia . 
I defy anybody not to be good to you , my dear , said her mother . 
The curry was capital indeed it was , said Joe , quite gravely . 
Perhaps there was NOT enough citron juice in it no , there was NOT . 
I shall take care how I let YOU choose for me another time , said Rebecca , as they went down again to dinner . 
I didn't think men were fond of putting poor harmless girls to pain . 
By Gad , Miss Rebecca , I wouldn't hurt you for the world . 
And oh , what a mercy it is that these women do not exercise their powers oftener ! We can't resist them , if they do . 
Let them show ever so little inclination , and men go down on their knees at once old or ugly , it is all the same . 
And this I set down as a positive truth . 
A woman with fair opportunities , and without an absolute hump , may marry WHOM SHE LIKES . 
Only let us be thankful that the darlings are like the beasts of the field , and don't know their own power . 
They would overcome us entirely if they did . 
Egad ! thought Joseph , entering the dining room , I exactly begin to feel as I did at Dumdum with Miss Cutler . 
Young unmarried girls always do , if they are in a house together for ten days . 
Now , she said , that Rebecca is with us , will be the very time . 
O , delightful ! said Rebecca , going to clap her hands but she recollected herself , and paused , like a modest creature , as she was . 
To night is not the night , said Joe . 
To morrow your Papa and I dine out , said Mrs. Sedley . 
Let Joe go , said his father , laughing . 
At which speech even Mr. Sambo at the sideboard burst out laughing , and poor fat Joe felt inclined to become a parricide almost . 
Undo his stays ! continued the pitiless old gentleman . 
Fling some water in his face , Miss Sharp , or carry him upstairs the dear creature's fainting . 
Poor victim ! carry him up he's as light as a feather ! If I stand this , sir , I'm d ! roared Joseph . 
Order Mr. Jos's elephant , Sambo ! cried the father . 
The girls must have a gentleman apiece , said the old gentleman . 
Jos will be sure to leave Emmy in the crowd , he will be so taken up with Miss Sharp here . 
Send to , and ask George Osborne if he'll come . 
At this , I don't know in the least for what reason , Mrs. Sedley looked at her husband and laughed . 
Amelia had better write a note , said her father and let George Osborne see what a beautiful handwriting we have brought back from Miss Pinkerton's . 
Do you remember when you wrote to him to come on Twelfth night , Emmy , and spelt twelfth without the f ? That was years ago , said Amelia . 
It was quite wicked of you , Mr. Sedley , said she , to torment the poor boy so . 
My dear , said the cotton tassel in defence of his conduct , Jos is a great deal vainer than you ever were in your life , and that's saying a good deal . 
Though , some thirty years ago , in the year seventeen hundred and eighty what was it ? perhaps you had a right to be vain I don't say no . 
But I've no patience with Jos and his dandified modesty . 
It is out Josephing Joseph , my dear , and all the while the boy is only thinking of himself , and what a fine fellow he is . 
I doubt , Ma'am , we shall have some trouble with him yet . 
Here is Emmy's little friend making love to him as hard as she can that's quite clear and if she does not catch him some other will . 
That man is destined to be a prey to woman , as I am to go on 'Change every day . 
It's a mercy he did not bring us over a black daughter in law , my dear . 
But , mark my words , the first woman who fishes for him , hooks him . 
She shall go off to morrow , the little artful creature , said Mrs. Sedley , with great energy . 
Why not she as well as another , Mrs. Sedley ? The girl's a white face at any rate . 
I don't care who marries him . 
The petition , too , for an extension of the young lady's leave of absence had already been despatched , and it would be difficult to find a pretext for abruptly dismissing her . 
Mr. Osborne did not seem in the least disappointed at this occurrence . 
Osborne was Sedley's godson , and had been one of the family any time these three and twenty years . 
In a word , George was as familiar with the family as such daily acts of kindness and intercourse could make him . 
Well , do you remember coming down in a gig to Dr . 
How good of Mr. Sedley to go to your school and give you the money ! exclaimed Rebecca , in accents of extreme delight . 
Yes , and after I had cut the tassels of his boots too . 
Boys never forget those tips at school , nor the givers . 
I delight in Hessian boots , said Rebecca . 
Miss Sharp ! said George Osborne , you who are so clever an artist , you must make a grand historical picture of the scene of the boots . 
Sedley shall be represented in buckskins , and holding one of the injured boots in one hand by the other he shall have hold of my shirt frill . 
Amelia shall be kneeling near him , with her little hands up and the picture shall have a grand allegorical title , as the frontispieces have in the Medulla and the spelling book . 
I shan't have time to do it here , said Rebecca . 
'I'll do it when when I'm gone . 
And she dropped her voice , and looked so sad and piteous , that everybody felt how cruel her lot was , and how sorry they would be to part with her . 
O that you could stay longer , dear Rebecca , said Amelia . 
Why ? answered the other , still more sadly . 
That I may be only the more unhap unwilling to lose you ? And she turned away her head . 
Amelia began to give way to that natural infirmity of tears which , we have said , was one of the defects of this silly little thing . 
But this arrangement left Mr. Joseph Sedley tete a tete with Rebecca , at the drawing room table , where the latter was occupied in knitting a green silk purse . 
There is no need to ask family secrets , said Miss Sharp . 
Those two have told theirs . 
As soon as he gets his company , said Joseph , I believe the affair is settled . 
George Osborne is a capital fellow . 
And your sister the dearest creature in the world , said Rebecca . 
Happy the man who wins her ! With this , Miss Sharp gave a great sigh . 
When two unmarried persons get together , and talk upon such delicate subjects as the present , a great deal of confidence and intimacy is presently established between them . 
Almost for the first time in his life , Mr. Sedley found himself talking , without the least timidity or hesitation , to a person of the other sex . 
Miss Rebecca asked him a great number of questions about India , which gave him an opportunity of narrating many interesting anecdotes about that country and himself . 
There is no need to ask family secrets , said Miss Sharp . 
Those two have told theirs . 
As soon as he gets his company , said Joseph , I believe the affair is settled . 
George Osborne is a capital fellow . 
And your sister the dearest creature in the world , said Rebecca . 
Happy the man who wins her ! With this , Miss Sharp gave a great sigh . 
When two unmarried persons get together , and talk upon such delicate subjects as the present , a great deal of confidence and intimacy is presently established between them . 
Almost for the first time in his life , Mr. Sedley found himself talking , without the least timidity or hesitation , to a person of the other sex . 
Miss Rebecca asked him a great number of questions about India , which gave him an opportunity of narrating many interesting anecdotes about that country and himself . 
Pooh , pooh , Miss Sharp , said he , pulling up his shirt collars the danger makes the sport only the pleasanter . 
He had never been but once at a tiger hunt , when the accident in question occurred , and when he was half killed not by the tiger , but by the fright . 
For any one who wants a purse , replied Miss Rebecca , looking at him in the most gentle winning way . 
Did you ever hear anything like your brother's eloquence ? whispered Mr. Osborne to Amelia . 
Why , your friend has worked miracles . 
For the affection of young ladies is of as rapid growth as Jack's bean stalk , and reaches up to the sky in a night . 
It is no blame to them that after marriage this Sehnsucht nach der Liebe subsides . 
Having expended her little store of songs , or having stayed long enough in the back drawing room , it now appeared proper to Miss Amelia to ask her friend to sing . 
, had you heard Rebecca first . 
I give Miss Sharp warning , though , said Osborne , that , right or wrong , I consider Miss Amelia Sedley the first singer in the world . 
You shall hear , said Amelia and Joseph Sedley was actually polite enough to carry the candles to the piano . 
, and exerted herself to the utmost , and , indeed , to the wonder of Amelia , who had never known her perform so well . 
They mark'd him as he onward prest , With fainting heart and weary limb Kind voices bade him turn and rest , And gentle faces welcomed him . 
As she came to the last words , Miss Sharp's deep toned voice faltered . 
Everybody felt the allusion to her departure , and to her hapless orphan state . 
Joseph Sedley , who was fond of music , and soft hearted , was in a state of ravishment during the performance of the song , and profoundly touched at its conclusion . 
Bravo , Jos ! said Mr. Sedley on hearing the bantering of which well known voice , Jos instantly relapsed into an alarmed silence , and quickly took his departure . 
It's evident the poor devil's in love with me , thought he . 
She is just as rich as most of the girls who come out to India . 
I might go farther , and fare worse , egad ! And in these meditations he fell asleep . 
How Miss Sharp lay awake , thinking , will he come or not to morrow ? need not be told here . 
To morrow came , and , as sure as fate , Mr. Joseph Sedley made his appearance before luncheon . 
He had never been known before to confer such an honour on Russell Square . 
, and Rebecca was employed upon her yesterday's work . 
It was a nervous moment for all and as for Amelia , I think she was more frightened than even the people most concerned . 
Bravo , Jos ! cried Osborne . 
Thank you , dear Joseph , said Amelia , quite ready to kiss her brother , if he were so minded . 
Perhaps she just looked first into the bouquet , to see whether there was a billet doux hidden among the flowers but there was no letter . 
Do they talk the language of flowers at Boggley Wollah , Sedley ? asked Osborne , laughing . 
Pooh , nonsense ! replied the sentimental youth . 
Bought 'em at Nathan's very glad you like 'em and eh , Amelia , my dear , I bought a pine apple at the same time , which I gave to Sambo . 
Let's have it for tiffin very cool and nice this hot weather . 
Rebecca said she had never tasted a pine , and longed beyond everything to taste one . 
So the conversation went on . 
What a beautiful , BYOO OOTIFUL song that was you sang last night , dear Miss Sharp , said the Collector . 
It made me cry almost 'pon my honour it did . 
Because you have a kind heart , Mr. Joseph all the Sedleys have , I think . 
It kept me awake last night , and I was trying to hum it this morning , in bed I was , upon my honour . 
, and , 'gad ! there I was , singing away like a robin . 
O you droll creature ! Do let me hear you sing it . 
Me ? No , you , Miss Sharp my dear Miss Sharp , do sing it . 
Not now , Mr. Sedley , said Rebecca , with a sigh . 
My spirits are not equal to it besides , I must finish the purse . 
In this romantic position Osborne and Amelia found the interesting pair , when they entered to announce that tiffin was ready . 
The skein of silk was just wound round the card but Mr. Jos had never spoken . 
CHAPTER V Dobbin of Ours Cuff's fight with Dobbin , and the unexpected issue of that contest , will long be remembered by every man who was educated at Dr . 
was the quietest , the clumsiest , and , as it seemed , the dullest of all Dr . 
His parent was a grocer in the city and it was bruited abroad that he was admitted into Dr . 
Young Dobbin had no peace after that . 
The jokes were frightful , and merciless against him . 
Hullo , Dobbin , one wag would say , here's good news in the paper . 
Sugars is ris' , my boy . 
Your father's only a merchant , Osborne , Dobbin said in private to the little boy who had brought down the storm upon him . 
High and low , all made fun of him . 
They sewed up those corduroys , tight as they were . 
They cut his bed strings . 
They upset buckets and benches , so that he might break his shins over them , which he never failed to do . 
They sent him parcels , which , when opened , were found to contain the paternal soap and candles . 
There was no little fellow but had his jeer and joke at Dobbin and he bore everything quite patiently , and was entirely dumb and miserable . 
Cuff , on the contrary , was the great chief and dandy of the Swishtail Seminary . 
He fought the town boys . 
Ponies used to come for him to ride home on Saturdays . 
He had his top boots in his room , in which he used to hunt in the holidays . 
He had a gold repeater and took snuff like the Doctor . 
He had been to the Opera , and knew the merits of the principal actors , preferring Mr. Kean to Mr. Kemble . 
He could knock you off forty Latin verses in an hour . 
He could make French poetry . 
What else didn't he know , or couldn't he do ? They said even the Doctor himself was afraid of him . 
Cuff , the unquestioned king of the school , ruled over his subjects , and bullied them , with splendid superiority . 
This one blacked his shoes that toasted his bread , others would fag out , and give him balls at cricket during whole summer afternoons . 
Figs was the fellow whom he despised most , and with whom , though always abusing him , and sneering at him , he scarcely ever condescended to hold personal communication . 
One day in private , the two young gentlemen had had a difference . 
Figs , alone in the schoolroom , was blundering over a home letter when Cuff , entering , bade him go upon some message , of which tarts were probably the subject . 
I can't , says Dobbin I want to finish my letter . 
Well , sir , will you go ? crowed the cock of the school . 
Put down the letter , Dobbin replied no gentleman readth letterth . 
Well , NOW will you go ? says the other . 
personally with the grocer's boy after that though we must do him the justice to say he always spoke of Mr. Dobbin with con tempt behind his back . 
if , I say , parents and masters would leave their children alone a little more , small harm would accrue , although a less quantity of as in praesenti might be acquired . 
It was the lad who had peached upon him about the grocer's cart but he bore little malice , not at least towards the young and small . 
How dare you , sir , break the bottle ? says Cuff to the little urchin , swinging a yellow cricket stump over him . 
How dare you , sir , break it ? says Cuff you blundering little thief . 
You drank the shrub , and now you pretend to have broken the bottle . 
Hold out your hand , sir . 
Down came the stump with a great heavy thump on the child's hand . 
Hold out your other hand , sir , roars Cuff to his little schoolfellow , whose face was distorted with pain . 
Dobbin quivered , and gathered himself up in his narrow old clothes . 
Take that , you little devil ! cried Mr. Cuff , and down came the wicket again on the child's hand . 
Don't be horrified , ladies , every boy at a public school has done it . 
Your children will so do and be done by , in all probability . 
Down came the wicket again and Dobbin started up . 
I can't tell what his motive was . 
Torture in a public school is as much licensed as the knout in Russia . 
It would be ungentlemanlike to resist it . 
Hold out your hand , you little beast . 
As you please , Dobbin said . 
You must be my bottle holder , Osborne . 
Well , if you like , little Osborne replied for you see his papa kept a carriage , and he was rather ashamed of his champion . 
At each fall there was a cheer and everybody was anxious to have the honour of offering the conqueror a knee . 
What a licking I shall get when it's over , young Osborne thought , picking up his man . 
You'd best give in , he said to Dobbin it's only a thrashing , Figs , and you know I'm used to it . 
But Figs , all whose limbs were in a quiver , and whose nostrils were breathing rage , put his little bottle holder aside , and went in for a fourth time . 
Cuff went down this time , to the astonishment of the assembly . 
Well hit , by Jove , says little Osborne , with the air of a connoisseur , clapping his man on the back . 
Give it him with the left , Figs my boy . 
Figs's left made terrific play during all the rest of the combat . 
Cuff went down every time . 
At the sixth round , there were almost as many fellows shouting out , Go it , Figs , as there were youths exclaiming , Go it , Cuff . 
At the twelfth round the latter champion was all abroad , as the saying is , and had lost all presence of mind and power of attack or defence . 
Figs , on the contrary , was as calm as a quaker . 
Nevertheless , his intrepid adversary prepared to close for the thirteenth time . 
If I had the pen of a Napier , or a Bell's Life , I should like to describe this combat properly . 
And now all the boys set up such a shout for Figs as would have made you think he had been their darling champion through the whole battle and as absolutely brought Dr . 
Swishtail out of his study , curious to know the cause of the uproar . 
I was bullying a little boy and he served me right . 
By which magnanimous speech he not only saved his conqueror a whipping , but got back all his ascendancy over the boys which his defeat had nearly cost him . 
Young Osborne wrote home to his parents an account of the transaction . 
Sugarcane House , Richmond , March , DEAR MAMA , I hope you are quite well . 
I should be much obliged to you to send me a cake and five shillings . 
There has been a fight here between Cuff Dobbin . 
Cuff , you know , was the Cock of the School . 
They fought thirteen rounds , and Dobbin Licked . 
So Cuff is now Only Second Cock . 
The fight was about me . 
Cuff was licking me for breaking a bottle of milk , and Figs wouldn't stand it . 
We call him Figs because his father is a Grocer Figs Rudge , Thames St . 
, City I think as he fought for me you ought to buy your Tea Sugar at his father's . 
Cuff goes home every Saturday , but can't this , because he has Black Eyes . 
He has a white Pony to come and fetch him , and a groom in livery on a bay mare . 
I wish my Papa would let me have a Pony , and I am Your dutiful Son , GEORGE SEDLEY OSBORNE P. S. Give my love to little Emmy . 
I am cutting her out a Coach in cardboard . 
Please not a seed cake , but a plum cake . 
It was voted low to sneer at Dobbin about this accident of birth . 
Old Figs grew to be a name of kindness and endearment and the sneak of an usher jeered at him no longer . 
And Dobbin's spirit rose with his altered circumstances . 
He made wonderful advances in scholastic learning . 
It was discovered , that although dull at classical learning , at mathematics he was uncommonly quick . 
To the contentment of all he passed third in algebra , and got a French prize book at the public Midsummer examination . 
was presented to him by the Doctor in the face of the whole school and the parents and company , with an inscription to Gulielmo Dobbin . 
All the boys clapped hands in token of applause and sympathy . 
He flung himself down at little Osborne's feet , and loved him . 
Even before they were acquainted , he had admired Osborne in secret . 
Now he was his valet , his dog , his man Friday . 
He believed Osborne to be the possessor of every perfection , to be the handsomest , the bravest , the most active , the cleverest , the most generous of created boys . 
He's almost as modest as Jos . 
Modesty ! pooh , said the stout gentleman , casting a vainqueur look at Miss Sharp . 
He is but you are incomparably more graceful , Sedley , Osborne added , laughing . 
Don't you remember the catastrophe , Ma'am , seven years ago ? Over Mrs. Flamingo's crimson silk gown , said good natured Mrs. Sedley . 
What a gawky it was ! And his sisters are not much more graceful . 
Lady Dobbin was at Highbury last night with three of them . 
Such figures ! my dears . 
The Alderman's very rich , isn't he ? Osborne said archly . 
Why , he had the yellow fever three times twice at Nassau , and once at St . 
Well , well yours is quite yellow enough for us . 
I don't care about Captain Dobbin's complexion , she said , or about his awkwardness . 
I shall always like him , I know , her little reason being , that he was the friend and champion of George . 
There's not a finer fellow in the service , Osborne said , nor a better officer , though he is not an Adonis , certainly . 
As it was , the sweet fresh little voice went right into the Captain's heart , and nestled there . 
Dobbin , the despised grocer , was Alderman Dobbin Alderman Dobbin was Colonel of the City Light Horse , then burning with military ardour to resist the French Invasion . 
His son had entered the army and young Osborne followed presently in the same regiment . 
They had served in the West Indies and in Canada . 
Their regiment had just come home , and the attachment of Dobbin to George Osborne was as warm and generous now as it had been when the two were schoolboys . 
So these worthy people sat down to dinner presently . 
They talked about war and glory , and Boney and Lord Wellington , and the last Gazette . 
Miss Sharp kindled with this exciting talk , but Miss Sedley trembled and grew quite faint as she heard it . 
He's priming himself , Osborne whispered to Dobbin , and at length the hour and the carriage arrived for Vauxhall . 
The argument stands thus Osborne , in love with Amelia , has asked an old friend to dinner and to Vauxhall Jos Sedley is in love with Rebecca . 
Will he marry her ? That is the great subject now in hand . 
We might have treated this subject in the genteel , or in the romantic , or in the facetious manner . 
And yet it is a chapter , and a very important one too . 
There is barely room between Jos and Miss Sharp , who are on the front seat . 
Mr. Osborne sitting bodkin opposite , between Captain Dobbin and Amelia . 
Every soul in the coach agreed that on that night Jos would propose to make Rebecca Sharp Mrs. Sedley . 
The parents at home had acquiesced in the arrangement , though , between ourselves , old Mr. Sedley had a feeling very much akin to contempt for his son . 
He said he was vain , selfish , lazy , and effeminate . 
He could not endure his airs as a man of fashion , and laughed heartily at his pompous braggadocio stories . 
Let him marry whom he likes . 
It's no affair of mine . 
Amelia , on the other hand , as became a young woman of her prudence and temperament , was quite enthusiastic for the match . 
This mystery served to keep Amelia's gentle bosom in a perpetual flutter of excitement . 
It was , of course , Mrs. Sedley's opinion that her son would demean himself by a marriage with an artist's daughter . 
And Amelia was entirely of this opinion , to which , gradually , the good natured Mrs. Sedley was brought . 
Let Jos marry whom he likes , he said it's no affair of mine . 
This girl has no fortune no more had Mrs. Sedley . 
She seems good humoured and clever , and will keep him in order , perhaps . 
Better she , my dear , than a black Mrs. Sedley , and a dozen of mahogany grandchildren . 
So that everything seemed to smile upon Rebecca's fortunes . 
, and though nobody said a word on the subject of the marriage , everybody seemed to understand it . 
The party was landed at the Royal Gardens in due time . 
George , of course , took charge of Amelia . 
She looked as happy as a rose tree in sunshine . 
I say , Dobbin , says George , just look to the shawls and things , there's a good fellow . 
He walked very modestly behind them . 
He was not willing to spoil sport . 
About Rebecca and Jos he did not care a fig . 
Mr. Dobbin tried to hum it as he walked away , and found he was humming the tune which Amelia Sedley sang on the stairs , as she came down to dinner . 
He burst out laughing at himself for the truth is , he could sing no better than an owl . 
Parties at Vauxhall always did separate , but 'twas only to meet again at supper time , when they could talk of their mutual adventures in the interval . 
What were the adventures of Mr. Osborne and Miss Amelia ? That is a secret . 
How I should like to see India ! said Rebecca . 
Covers were laid for four . 
The mated pairs were prattling away quite happily , and Dobbin knew he was as clean forgotten as if he had never existed in this world . 
I should only be de trop , said the Captain , looking at them rather wistfully . 
The two couples were perfectly happy then in their box where the most delightful and intimate conversation took place . 
Jos was in his glory , ordering about the waiters with great majesty . 
He made the salad and uncorked the Champagne and carved the chickens and ate and drank the greater part of the refreshments on the tables . 
Finally , he insisted upon having a bowl of rack punch everybody had rack punch at Vauxhall . 
That bowl of rack punch was the cause of all this history . 
Lempriere say so ? so did this bowl of rack punch influence the fates of all the principal characters in this Novel without a Hero , which we are now relating . 
It influenced their life , although most of them did not taste a drop of it . 
, he almost drew away the audience who were gathered round the musicians in the gilt scollop shell , and received from his hearers a great deal of applause . 
For Heaven's sake , Jos , let us get up and go , cried that gentleman , and the young women rose . 
Stop , my dearest diddle diddle darling , shouted Jos , now as bold as a lion , and clasping Miss Rebecca round the waist . 
Rebecca started , but she could not get away her hand . 
Good Heavens ! Dobbin , where have you been ? sborne said , seizing the white cashmere shawl from his friend's arm , and huddling up Amelia in it . 
Make yourself useful , and take charge of Jos here , whilst I take the ladies to the carriage . 
Jos was for rising to interfere but a single push from Osborne's finger sent him puffing back into his seat again , and the lieutenant was enabled to remove the ladies in safety . 
He adored that girl who had just gone out he had broken her heart , he knew he had , by his conduct he would marry her next morning at St . 
George Osborne conducted the girls home in safety and when the door was closed upon them , and as he walked across Russell Square , laughed so as to astonish the watchman . 
Amelia looked very ruefully at her friend , as they went up stairs , and kissed her , and went to bed without any more talking . 
He must propose to morrow , thought Rebecca . 
He called me his soul's darling , four times he squeezed my hand in Amelia's presence . 
He must propose to morrow . 
And so thought Amelia , too . 
That next morning , which Rebecca thought was to dawn upon her fortune , found Sedley groaning in agonies which the pen refuses to describe . 
Soda water was not invented yet . 
Small beer will it be believed ! was the only drink with which unhappy gentlemen soothed the fever of their previous night's potation . 
With this mild beverage before him , George Osborne found the ex Collector of Boggley Wollah groaning on the sofa at his lodgings . 
Dobbin was already in the room , good naturedly tending his patient of the night before . 
The two officers , looking at the prostrate Bacchanalian , and askance at each other , exchanged the most frightful sympathetic grins . 
Mr. Sedley was uncommon wild last night , sir , he whispered in confidence to Osborne , as the latter mounted the stair . 
He wanted to fight the 'ackney coachman , sir . 
The Capting was obliged to bring him upstairs in his harms like a babby . 
How are you , Sedley ? that young wag began , after surveying his victim . 
No bones broke ? There's a hackney coachman downstairs with a black eye , and a tied up head , vowing he'll have the law of you . 
What do you mean law ? Sedley faintly asked . 
For thrashing him last night didn't he , Dobbin ? You hit out , sir , like Molyneux . 
The watchman says he never saw a fellow go down so straight . 
You DID have a round with the coachman , Captain Dobbin said , and showed plenty of fight too . 
I thought you civilians had no pluck but I'll never get in your way when you are in your cups , Jos . 
Osborne pursued his advantage pitilessly . 
He thought Jos a milksop . 
You hit , you poor old fellow ! said Osborne . 
You terrible ! Why , man , you couldn't stand you made everybody laugh in the Gardens , though you were crying yourself . 
You were maudlin , Jos . 
Don't you remember singing a song ? A what ? Jos asked . 
Why should I spare him ? Osborne said to his friend's remonstrances , when they quitted the invalid , leaving him under the hands of Doctor Gollop . 
A governess is all very well , but I'd rather have a lady for my sister in law . 
I'm a liberal man but I've proper pride , and know my own station let her know hers . 
And I'll take down that great hectoring Nabob , and prevent him from being made a greater fool than he is . 
That's why I told him to look out , lest she brought an action against him . 
I suppose you know best , Dobbin said , though rather dubiously . 
You always were a Tory , and your family's one of the oldest in England . 
As George walked down Southampton Row , from Holborn , he laughed as he saw , at the Sedley Mansion , in two different stories two heads on the look out . 
See whom ? said Miss Sharp . 
Whom ? O whom ? Captain Dobbin , of course , to whom we were all so attentive , by the way , last night . 
We were very unkind to him , Emmy said , blushing very much . 
I I quite forgot him . 
Of course you did , cried Osborne , still on the laugh . 
One can't be ALWAYS thinking about Dobbin , you know , Amelia . 
He is to make fun of me , is he ? thought Rebecca . 
Has he been laughing about me to Joseph ? Has he frightened him ? Perhaps he won't come . 
A film passed over her eyes , and her heart beat quite quick . 
You're always joking , said she , smiling as innocently as she could . 
Joke away , Mr. George there's nobody to defend ME . 
And George Osborne , as she walked away and Amelia looked reprovingly at him felt some little manly compunction for having inflicted any unnecessary unkindness upon this helpless creature . 
My dearest Amelia , said he , you are too good too kind . 
You don't know the world . 
And your little friend Miss Sharp must learn her station . 
Don't you think Jos will Upon my word , my dear , I don't know . 
He may , or may not . 
I only know he is a very foolish vain fellow , and put my dear little girl into a very painful and awkward position last night . 
My dearest diddle diddle darling ! He was off laughing again , and he did it so drolly that Emmy laughed too . 
All that day Jos never came . 
Note from Mr. Jos , Miss , says Sambo . 
How Amelia trembled as she opened it ! So it ran Dear Amelia , I send you the Orphan of the Forest . 
I was too ill to come yesterday . 
I leave town to day for Cheltenham . 
Blenkinsop , the housekeeper , there sought her presently with consolation , on whose shoulder Amelia wept confidentially , and relieved herself a good deal . 
Don't take on , Miss . 
I didn't like to tell you . 
But none of us in the house have liked her except at fust . 
I sor her with my own eyes reading your Ma's letters . 
Pinner says she's always about your trinket box and drawers , and everybody's drawers , and she's sure she's put your white ribbing into her box . 
I gave it her , I gave it her , Amelia said . 
But this did not alter Mrs. Blenkinsop's opinion of Miss Sharp . 
I don't trust them governesses , Pinner , she remarked to the maid . 
They give themselves the hairs and hupstarts of ladies , and their wages is no better than you nor me . 
agreed that that event should take place as speedily as possible . 
, he went to Bond Street , and bought the best hat and spenser that money could buy . 
That's George's present to you , Rebecca , dear , said Amelia , quite proud of the bandbox conveying these gifts . 
What a taste he has ! There's nobody like him . 
How thankful I am to him ! She was thinking in her heart , It was George Osborne who prevented my marriage . 
And she loved George Osborne accordingly . 
She made her preparations for departure with great equanimity and accepted all the kind little Amelia's presents , after just the proper degree of hesitation and reluctance . 
She vowed eternal gratitude to Mrs. Sedley , of course but did not intrude herself upon that good lady too much , who was embarrassed , and evidently wishing to avoid her . 
She kissed Mr. Sedley's hand , when he presented her with the purse and asked permission to consider him for the future as her kind , kind friend and protector . 
Drive to the Mansion House , James . 
Finally came the parting with Miss Amelia , over which picture I intend to throw a veil . 
This honourable name had figured constantly also in the Parliamentary list for many years , in conjunction with that of a number of other worthy gentlemen who sat in turns for the borough . 
was the son of Walpole Crawley , first Baronet , of the Tape and Sealing Wax Office in the reign of George II . 
Out of his waistcoat , as usual , grows a tree , on the main branches of which the above illustrious names are inscribed . 
, rector of Crawley cum Snailby , and of various other male and female members of the Crawley family . 
Sir Pitt was first married to Grizzel , sixth daughter of Mungo Binkie , Lord Binkie , and cousin , in consequence , of Mr. Dundas . 
, she began to depict in her own mind what a Baronet must be . 
I suppose he will be awfully proud , and that I shall be treated most contemptuously . 
The shutters of the first floor windows of Sir Pitt's mansion were closed those of the dining room were partially open , and the blinds neatly covered up in old newspapers . 
Ees , says the man at the door , with a nod . 
Hand down these 'ere trunks then , said John . 
Hand 'n down yourself , said the porter . 
The bald headed man , taking his hands out of his breeches pockets , advanced on this summons , and throwing Miss Sharp's trunk over his shoulder , carried it into the house . 
Take this basket and shawl , if you please , and open the door , said Miss Sharp , and descended from the carriage in much indignation . 
I shall write to Mr. Sedley and inform him of your conduct , said she to the groom . 
Don't , replied that functionary . 
I hope you've forgot nothink ? Miss 'Melia's gownds have you got them as the lady's maid was to have 'ad ? I hope they'll fit you . 
The truth is , he was attached to the lady's maid in question , and indignant that she should have been robbed of her perquisites . 
The faithful chambers seem , as it were , to mourn the absence of their masters . 
There was a bit of cheese and bread , and a tin candlestick on the table , and a little black porter in a pint pot . 
Had your dinner , I suppose ? It is not too warm for you ? Like a drop of beer ? Where is Sir Pitt Crawley ? said Miss Sharp majestically . 
He , he ! I'm Sir Pitt Crawley . 
Reklect you owe me a pint for bringing down your luggage . 
He , he ! Ask Tinker if I aynt . 
Mrs. Tinker , Miss Sharp Miss Governess , Mrs. Charwoman . 
Where's the farden ? said he . 
I gave you three halfpence . 
Where's the change , old Tinker ? There ! replied Mrs. Tinker , flinging down the coin it's only baronets as cares about farthings . 
A farthing a day is seven shillings a year , answered the M. P. seven shillings a year is the interest of seven guineas . 
Take care of your farthings , old Tinker , and your guineas will come quite nat'ral . 
You may be sure it's Sir Pitt Crawley , young woman , said Mrs. Tinker , surlily because he looks to his farthings . 
You'll know him better afore long . 
And like me none the worse , Miss Sharp , said the old gentleman , with an air almost of politeness . 
I must be just before I'm generous . 
He never gave away a farthing in his life , growled Tinker . 
Never , and never will it's against my principle . 
Go and get another chair from the kitchen , Tinker , if you want to sit down and then we'll have a bit of supper . 
You see , Miss Sharp , when I'm not here Tinker's on board wages when I'm in town she dines with the family . 
Haw ! haw ! I'm glad Miss Sharp's not hungry , ain't you , Tink ? And they fell to upon their frugal supper . 
I'm here on law business , my dear , and that's how it happens that I shall have the pleasure of such a pretty travelling companion to morrow . 
He's always at law business , said Mrs. Tinker , taking up the pot of porter . 
Drink and drink about , said the Baronet . 
Yes my dear , Tinker is quite right I've lost and won more lawsuits than any man in England . 
Look here at Crawley , Bart . 
I'll throw him over , or my name's not Pitt Crawley . 
Podder and another versus Crawley , Bart . 
Overseers of Snaily parish against Crawley , Bart . 
They can't prove it's common I'll defy 'em the land's mine . 
It no more belongs to the parish than it does to you or Tinker here . 
I'll beat 'em , if it cost me a thousand guineas . 
Look over the papers you may if you like , my dear . 
Do you write a good hand ? I'll make you useful when we're at Queen's Crawley , depend on it , Miss Sharp . 
Now the dowager's dead I want some one . 
She was as bad as he , said Tinker . 
She took the law of every one of her tradesmen and turned away forty eight footmen in four year . 
She was close very close , said the Baronet , simply but she was a valyble woman to me , and saved me a steward . 
And in this confidential strain , and much to the amusement of the new comer , the conversation continued for a considerable time . 
Whatever Sir Pitt Crawley's qualities might be , good or bad , he did not make the least disguise of them . 
He talked of himself incessantly , sometimes in the coarsest and vulgarest Hampshire accent sometimes adopting the tone of a man of the world . 
And so , with injunctions to Miss Sharp to be ready at five in the morning , he bade her good night . 
You'll sleep with Tinker to night , he said it's a big bed , and there's room for two . 
Lady Crawley died in it . 
The bed and chamber were so funereal and gloomy , you might have fancied , not only that Lady Crawley died in the room , but that her ghost inhabited it . 
I shouldn't like to sleep in this yeer bed without a good conscience , Miss , said the old woman . 
There's room for us and a half dozen of ghosts in it , says Rebecca . 
Tell me all about Lady Crawley and Sir Pitt Crawley , and everybody , my DEAR Mrs. Tinker . 
Rebecca lay awake for a long , long time , thinking of the morrow , and of the new world into which she was going , and of her chances of success there . 
The rushlight flickered in the basin . 
When she went to sleep , Rebecca chose that one to dream about . 
, and taking her way into Oxford Street , summoned a coach from a stand there . 
It is likewise needless to say that the driver , if he had any such hopes as those . 
above stated , was grossly disappointed and that the worthy Baronet whom he drove to the City did not give him one single penny more than his fare . 
It was in vain that Jehu appealed and stormed that he flung down Miss Sharp's bandboxes in the gutter at the 'Necks , and swore he would take the law of his fare . 
You'd better not , said one of the ostlers it's Sir Pitt Crawley . 
So it is , Joe , cried the Baronet , approvingly and I'd like to see the man can do me . 
So should oi , said Joe , grinning sulkily , and mounting the Baronet's baggage on the roof of the coach . 
, and Miss Sharp was accommodated with a back seat inside the carriage , which might be said to be carrying her into the wide world . 
For them stage coaches will have become romances a team of four bays as fabulous as Bucephalus or Black Bess . 
Alas ! we shall never hear the horn sing at midnight , or see the pike gates fly open any more . 
CHAPTER VIII Miss Rebecca Sharp to Miss Amelia Sedley , Russell Square , London . 
I did not sleep one single wink the whole night . 
Sir Pitt is not what we silly girls , when we used to read Cecilia at Chiswick , imagined a baronet must have been . 
Anything , indeed , less like Lord Orville cannot be imagined . 
I was awakened at daybreak by the charwoman , and having arrived at the inn , was at first placed inside the coach . 
This gentleman and the guard seemed to know Sir Pitt very well , and laughed at him a great deal . 
They both agreed in calling him an old screw which means a very stingy , avaricious person . 
But won't I flog 'em on to Squashmore , when I take the ribbons ? said the young Cantab . 
And sarve 'em right , Master Jack , said the guard . 
, made us a number of curtsies as she flung open the old iron carved doors , which are something like those at odious Chiswick . 
There's an avenue , said Sir Pitt , a mile long . 
There's six thousand pound of timber in them there trees . 
Sam Miles had been caught poaching , and Peter Bailey had gone to the workhouse at last . 
Serve him right , said Sir Pitt him and his family has been cheating me on that farm these hundred and fifty years . 
Some old tenant , I suppose , who could not pay his rent . 
Sir Pitt might have said he and his family , to be sure but rich baronets do not need to be careful about grammar , as poor governesses must be . 
Is that your church , sir ? I said . 
how's Buty , Hodson ? Buty's my brother Bute , my dear my brother the parson . 
He was out on his pony yesterday , looking at our corn . 
Will brandy and water never kill him ? He's as tough as old whatdyecallum old Methusalem . 
The young men is home from college . 
They've whopped John Scroggins till he's well nigh dead . 
Whop my second keeper ! roared out Sir Pitt . 
All the servants were ready to meet us , and . 
No candles after eleven o'clock , Miss Becky , said he . 
, and unless you wish me to come for the candle every night , mind and be in bed at eleven . 
And with this , he and Mr. Horrocks the butler went off laughing . 
You may be sure I shall not encourage any more of their visits . 
They let loose two immense bloodhounds at night , which all last night were yelling and howling at the moon . 
And oh , my dear , the great hall I am sure is as big and as glum as the great hall in the dear castle of Udolpho . 
It has a large fireplace , in which we might put half Miss Pinkerton's school , and the grate is big enough to roast an ox at the very least . 
At one end of the hall is the great staircase all in black oak , as dismal as may be , and on either side are tall doors with stags' heads . 
over them , leading to the billiard room and the library , and the great yellow saloon and the morning rooms . 
We have a schoolroom on the second floor , with my bedroom leading into it on one side , and that of the young ladies on the other . 
Then there are Mr. Pitt's apartments Mr. Crawley , he is called the eldest son , and Mr. Rawdon Crawley's rooms he is an officer like SOMEBODY , and away with his regiment . 
There is no want of room I assure you . 
You might lodge all the people in Russell Square in the house , I think , and have space to spare . 
for I am to be treated as one of the family , except on company days , when the young ladies and I are to dine upstairs . 
Well , the great dinner bell rang , and we all assembled in the little drawing room where my Lady Crawley sits . 
She is the second Lady Crawley , and mother of the young ladies . 
She was an ironmonger's daughter , and her marriage was thought a great match . 
She looks as if she had been handsome once , and her eyes are always weeping for the loss of her beauty . 
She is pale and meagre and high shouldered , and has not a word to say for herself , evidently . 
Her stepson Mr. Crawley , was likewise in the room . 
He was in full dress , as pompous as an undertaker . 
He is pale , thin , ugly , silent he has thin legs , no chest , hay coloured whiskers , and straw coloured hair . 
He is the very picture of his sainted mother over the mantelpiece Griselda of the noble house of Binkie . 
This is the new governess , Mr. Crawley , said Lady Crawley , coming forward and taking my hand . 
! said Mr. Crawley , and pushed his head once forward and began again to read a great pamphlet with which he was busy . 
I hope you will be kind to my girls , said Lady Crawley , with her pink eyes always full of tears . 
Law , Ma , of course she will , said the eldest and I saw at a glance that I need not be afraid of THAT woman . 
Sir Pitt was already in the room with a silver jug . 
The sideboard was covered with glistening old plate old cups , both gold and silver old salvers and cruet stands , like Rundell and Bridge's shop . 
Everything on the table was in silver too , and two footmen , with red hair and canary coloured liveries , stood on either side of the sideboard . 
Mr. Crawley said a long grace , and Sir Pitt said amen , and the great silver dish covers were removed . 
What have we for dinner , Betsy ? said the Baronet . 
Mutton broth , I believe , Sir Pitt , answered Lady Crawley . 
and the soup is potage de mouton a l'Ecossaise . 
The side dishes contain pommes de terre au naturel , and choufleur a l'eau . 
Mutton's mutton , said the Baronet , and a devilish good thing . 
What SHIP was it , Horrocks , and when did you kill ? One of the black faced Scotch , Sir Pitt we killed on Thursday . 
Who took any ? Steel , of Mudbury , took the saddle and two legs , Sir Pitt but he says the last was too young and confounded woolly , Sir Pitt . 
Will you take some potage , Miss ah Miss Blunt ? said Mr. Crawley . 
Capital Scotch broth , my dear , said Sir Pitt , though they call it by a French name . 
Then ale and water were brought , and served to us young ladies in wine glasses . 
I am not a judge of ale , but I can say with a clear conscience I prefer water . 
While we were enjoying our repast , Sir Pitt took occasion to ask what had become of the shoulders of the mutton . 
I believe they were eaten in the servants' hall , said my lady , humbly . 
They was , my lady , said Horrocks , and precious little else we get there neither . 
Sir Pitt burst into a horse laugh , and continued his conversation with Mr. Horrocks . 
That there little black pig of the Kent sow's breed must be uncommon fat now . 
Miss Crawley , Miss Rose Crawley , said Mr. Crawley , your laughter strikes me as being exceedingly out of place . 
Never mind , my lord , said the Baronet , we'll try the porker on Saturday . 
Kill un on Saturday morning , John Horrocks . 
Miss Sharp adores pork , don't you , Miss Sharp ? And I think this is all the conversation that I remember at dinner . 
When the repast was concluded a jug of hot water was placed before Sir Pitt , with a case bottle containing , I believe , rum . 
Mr. Horrocks served myself and my pupils with three little glasses of wine , and a bumper was poured out for my lady . 
When we retired , she took from her work drawer an enormous interminable piece of knitting the young ladies began to play at cribbage with a dirty pack of cards . 
So we sat for an hour until steps were heard . 
Was it not a charming evening ? At ten the servants were told to call Sir Pitt and the household to prayers . 
A thousand , thousand , thousand kisses ! Saturday . 
This morning , at five , I heard the shrieking of the little black pig . 
Lady Crawley is always knitting the worsted . 
Sir Pitt is always tipsy , every night and , I believe , sits with Horrocks , the butler . 
A hundred thousand grateful loves to your dear papa and mamma . 
That she might , when on her knees , have been thinking of something better than Miss Horrocks's ribbons , has possibly struck both of us . 
I warn my kyind friends , then , that I am going to tell a story of harrowing villainy and complicated but , as I trust , intensely interesting crime . 
My rascals are no milk and water rascals , I promise you . 
When we come to the proper places we won't spare fine language No , no ! But when we are going over the quiet country we must perforce be calm . 
A tempest in a slop basin is absurd . 
We will reserve that sort of thing for the mighty ocean and the lonely midnight . 
The present Chapter is very mild . 
Others But we will not anticipate THOSE . 
Such people there are living and flourishing in the world Faithless , Hopeless , Charityless let us have at them , dear friends , with might and main . 
Some there are , and very successful too , mere quacks and fools and it was to combat and expose such as those , no doubt , that Laughter was made . 
CHAPTER IX Family Portraits Sir Pitt Crawley was a philosopher with a taste for what is called low life . 
What a happy woman was Rose to be my Lady Crawley ! Let us set down the items of her happiness . 
Who ever did ? Sir Huddleston Fuddleston had three daughters who all hoped to be Lady Crawley . 
Sir Giles Wapshot's family were insulted that one of the Wapshot girls had not the preference in the marriage , and the remaining baronets of the county were indignant at their comrade's misalliance . 
Never mind the commoners , whom we will leave to grumble anonymously . 
Sir Pitt did not care , as he said , a brass farden for any one of them . 
Even Mrs. Bute Crawley , the Rector's wife , refused to visit her , as she said she would never give the pas to a tradesman's daughter . 
Being a light complexioned woman , she wore light clothes , as most blondes will , and appeared , in preference , in draggled sea green , or slatternly sky blue . 
She worked that worsted day and night , or other pieces like it . 
She had counterpanes in the course of a few years to all the beds in Crawley . 
She had a small flower garden , for which she had rather an affection but beyond this no other like or disliking . 
When her husband was rude to her she was apathetic whenever he struck her she cried . 
She had not character enough to take to drinking , and moaned about , slipshod and in curl papers all day . 
Mr. Pitt took after the noble Binkies , from whom he was descended , and was a very polite and proper gentleman . 
He was a man of such rigid refinement , that he would have starved rather than have dined without a white neckcloth . 
It was he who taught the butler to say , My lady is served , and who insisted on handing her ladyship in to dinner . 
At Eton he was called Miss Crawley and there , I am sorry to say , his younger brother Rawdon used to lick him violently . 
At college his career was of course highly creditable . 
He did not even get the prize poem , which all his friends said he was sure of . 
, and finding the advancement slow , he at length gave up the diplomatic service in some disgust , and began to turn country gentleman . 
, and took a strong part in the Negro Emancipation question . 
Then he became a friend of Mr. Wilberforce's , whose politics he admired , and had that famous correspondence with the Reverend Silas Hornblower , on the Ashantee Mission . 
He was in London , if not for the Parliament session , at least in May , for the religious meetings . 
In the country he was a magistrate , and an active visitor and speaker among those destitute of religious instruction . 
Miss Sharp's accounts of his employment at Queen's Crawley were not caricatures . 
he brought his father to join . 
Honest Sir Pitt , however , did not feel the force of these discourses , as he always took his nap during sermon time . 
indeed the family estate was much embarrassed , and the income drawn from the borough was of great use to the house of Queen's Crawley . 
It had never recovered the heavy fine imposed upon Walpole Crawley , first baronet , for peculation in the Tape and Sealing Wax Office . 
, and in his day beloved by all the county for the constant drunkenness and hospitality which was maintained at Queen's Crawley . 
But he was unluckily endowed with a good name and a large though encumbered estate , both of which went rather to injure than to advance him . 
He speculated in every possible way he worked mines bought canal shares horsed coaches took government contracts , and was the busiest man and magistrate of his county . 
As he would not pay honest agents at his granite quarry , he had the satisfaction of finding that four overseers ran away , and took fortunes with them to America . 
One great cause why Mr. Crawley had such a hold over the affections of his father , resulted from money arrangements . 
He was high sheriff , and rode in a golden coach . 
Great ministers and statesmen courted him and in Vanity Fair he had a higher place than the most brilliant genius or spotless virtue . 
I wish I had Miss MacWhirter's signature to a cheque for five thousand pounds . 
She wouldn't miss it , says your wife . 
She is my aunt , say you , in an easy careless way , when your friend asks if Miss MacWhirter is any relative . 
Your wife is perpetually sending her little testimonies of affection , your little girls work endless worsted baskets , cushions , and footstools for her . 
very fond of a rubber . 
What good dinners you have game every day , Malmsey Madeira , and no end of fish from London . 
is not regarded in the least . 
Is it so , or is it not so ? I appeal to the middle classes . 
has only herself and her own wits to trust to . 
Well , let us see if my wits cannot provide me with an honourable maintenance , and if some day or the other I cannot show Miss Amelia my real superiority over her . 
With the young people , whose applause she thoroughly gained , her method was pretty simple . 
She and Miss Rose thus read together many delightful French and English works , among which may be mentioned those of the learned Dr . 
Once , when Mr. Crawley asked what the young people were reading , the governess replied Smollett . 
Oh , Smollett , said Mr. Crawley , quite satisfied . 
His history is more dull , but by no means so dangerous as that of Mr. Hume . 
It is history you are reading ? Yes , said Miss Rose without , however , adding that it was the history of Mr. Humphrey Clinker . 
, and not a little pleased with the compliments which the governess continually paid him upon his proficiency . 
Miss Violet's tastes were , on the contrary , more rude and boisterous than those of her sister . 
She knew the sequestered spots where the hens laid their eggs . 
She could climb a tree to rob the nests of the feathered songsters of their speckled spoils . 
And her pleasure was to ride the young colts , and to scour the plains like Camilla . 
She was the favourite of her father and of the stablemen . 
She was the darling , and withal the terror of the cook for she discovered the haunts of the jam pots , and would attack them when they were within her reach . 
She and her sister were engaged in constant battles . 
With Mr. Crawley Miss Sharp was respectful and obedient . 
Blood is everything , after all , would that aristocratic religionist say . 
How Miss Sharp is awakened by my words , when not one of the people here is touched . 
I am too fine for them too delicate . 
I must familiarise my style but she understands it . 
Her mother was a Montmorency . 
Indeed it was from this famous family , as it appears , that Miss Sharp , by the mother's side , was descended . 
Of course she did not say that her mother had been on the stage it would have shocked Mr. Crawley's religious scruples . 
Are we to suppose from this curiosity and prying into dictionaries , could our heroine suppose that Mr. Crawley was interested in her ? no , only in a friendly way . 
But it was not only by playing at backgammon with the Baronet , that the little governess rendered herself agreeable to her employer . 
She found many different ways of being useful to him . 
She read over , with indefatigable patience , all those law papers , with which , before she came to Queen's Crawley , he had promised to entertain her . 
She volunteered to copy many of his letters , and adroitly altered the spelling of them so as to suit the usages of the present day . 
Whether it was the heart which dictated this new system of complaisance and humility adopted by our Rebecca , is to be proved by her after history . 
The great good quality of this old lady has been mentioned . 
She possessed seventy thousand pounds , and had almost adopted Rawdon . 
She disliked her elder nephew exceedingly , and despised him as a milksop . 
In return he did not hesitate to state that her soul was irretrievably lost , and was of opinion that his brother's chance in the next world was not a whit better . 
She is a godless woman of the world , would Mr. Crawley say she lives with atheists and Frenchmen . 
Shut up your sarmons , Pitt , when Miss Crawley comes down , said his father she has written to say that she won't stand the preachifying . 
O , sir ! consider the servants . 
The servants be hanged , said Sir Pitt and his son thought even worse would happen were they deprived of the benefit of his instruction . 
Why , hang it , Pitt ! said the father to his remonstrance . 
You wouldn't be such a flat as to let three thousand a year go out of the family ? What is money compared to our souls , sir ? continued Mr. Crawley . 
You mean that the old lady won't leave the money to you ? and who knows but it was Mr. Crawley's meaning ? Old Miss Crawley was certainly one of the reprobate . 
She was the most hospitable and jovial of old vestals , and had been a beauty in her day , she said . 
She was a bel esprit , and a dreadful Radical for those days . 
, and loved , ever after , French novels , French cookery , and French wines . 
She read Voltaire , and had Rousseau by heart talked very lightly about divorce , and most energetically of the rights of women . 
It is needless to say that Sir Pitt was brought to change his views after the death of the great Whig statesman . 
A perfect and celebrated blood , or dandy about town , was this young officer . 
Boxing , rat hunting , the fives court , and four in hand driving were then the fashion of our British aristocracy and he was an adept in all these noble sciences . 
fought three bloody duels , in which he gave ample proofs of his contempt for death . 
And for what follows after death , would Mr. Crawley observe , throwing his gooseberry coloured eyes up to the ceiling . 
He will sow his wild oats , she would say , and is worth far more than that puling hypocrite of a brother of his . 
, we must introduce the reader to their relatives and neighbours at the Rectory , Bute Crawley and his wife . 
The Reverend Bute Crawley was a tall , stately , jolly , shovel hatted man , far more popular in his county than the Baronet his brother . 
At college he pulled stroke oar in the Christchurch boat , and had thrashed all the best bruisers of the town . 
He had a fine voice sang A southerly wind and a cloudy sky and gave the whoop in chorus with general applause . 
He rode to hounds in a pepper and salt frock , and was one of the best fishermen in the county . 
Mrs. Crawley , the rector's wife , was a smart little body , who wrote this worthy divine's sermons . 
Being of a domestic turn , and keeping the house a great deal with her daughters , she ruled absolutely within the Rectory , wisely giving her husband full liberty without . 
He was welcome to come and go , and dine abroad as many days as his fancy dictated , for Mrs. Crawley was a saving woman and knew the price of port wine . 
, she had been a prudent and thrifty wife to him . 
In spite of her care , however , he was always in debt . 
It took him at least ten years to pay off his college bills contracted during his father's lifetime . 
against Kangaroo , who won the Derby . 
The Rector was obliged to take up the money at a ruinous interest , and had been struggling ever since . 
, Matilda must leave me half her money . 
So that the Baronet and his brother had every reason which two brothers possibly can have for being by the ears . 
Sir Pitt had had the better of Bute in innumerable family transactions . 
Young Pitt not only did not hunt , but set up a meeting house under his uncle's very nose . 
Rawdon , it was known , was to come in for the bulk of Miss Crawley's property . 
These money transactions these speculations in life and death these silent battles for reversionary spoil make brothers very loving towards each other in Vanity Fair . 
There was always the best understanding between the servants at the Rectory and the Hall . 
That , by the way , may be set down as a general remark . 
When you and your brother are friends , his doings are indifferent to you . 
When you have quarrelled , all his outgoings and incomings you know , as if you were his spy . 
Very soon then after her arrival , Rebecca began to take a regular place in Mrs. Crawley's bulletin from the Hall . 
It was to this effect The black porker's killed weighed x stone salted the sides pig's pudding and leg of pork for dinner . 
my lady as usual the young ladies with the governess . 
Mrs. Bute Crawley to Miss Pinkerton , The Mall , Chiswick . 
Rectory , Queen's Crawley , December . 
I hope your health is GOOD . 
The world and the cause of education cannot afford to lose Miss Pinkerton for MANY MANY YEARS . 
My dear husband is pleased to say that he likes EVERYTHING WHICH COMES FROM MISS PINKERTON'S SCHOOL . 
M. C. Miss Pinkerton to Mrs. Bute Crawley . 
Johnson House , Chiswick , Dec . 
Dear Madam , I have the honour to acknowledge your polite communication , to which I promptly reply . 
to introduce to her ladyship my two friends , Miss Tuffin and Miss Hawky . 
In the use of the globes both are proficients . 
, can instruct in the Syriac language , and the elements of Constitutional law . 
But as she is only eighteen years of age , and of exceedingly pleasing personal appearance , perhaps this young lady may be objectionable in Sir Huddleston Fuddleston's family . 
Miss Letitia Hawky , on the other hand , is not personally well favoured . 
She is twenty nine her face is much pitted with the small pox . 
She has a halt in her gait , red hair , and a trifling obliquity of vision . 
Both ladies are endowed with EVERY MORAL AND RELIGIOUS VIRTUE . 
Their terms , of course , are such as their accomplishments merit . 
With my most grateful respects to the Reverend Bute Crawley , I have the honour to be , Dear Madam , Your most faithful and obedient servant , Barbara Pinkerton . 
P. S. The Miss Sharp , whom you mention as governess to Sir Pitt Crawley , Bart . 
, M. P. , was a pupil of mine , and I have nothing to say in her disfavour . 
yet her talents are considerable , and I cannot regret that I received her OUT OF CHARITY . 
, and I am sure nothing will occur to injure them in the elegant and refined circle of the eminent Sir Pitt Crawley . 
Miss Rebecca Sharp to Miss Amelia Sedley . 
after dinner , Mr. Crawley's discourses on the baronet's backgammon during both of which amusements my lady looks on with equal placidity . 
She has become rather more interesting by being ailing of late , which has brought a new visitor to the Hall , in the person of a young doctor . 
Well , my dear , young women need never despair . 
Marry , indeed ! and with a country apothecary , after No , no , one cannot so soon forget old associations , about which I will talk no more . 
Let us return to Humdrum Hall . 
For some time past it is Humdrum Hall no longer . 
My dear , Miss Crawley has arrived with her fat horses , fat servants , fat spaniel the great rich Miss Crawley , with seventy thousand pounds in the five per cents . 
, whom , or I had better say WHICH , her two brothers adore . 
She looks very apoplectic , the dear soul no wonder her brothers are anxious about her . 
, I leave my toady , Miss Briggs , at home . 
We have wax candles in the schoolroom , and fires to warm ourselves with . 
All he said was , I'll serve you out , Miss , when your aunt's gone , and laughed off the accident as quite trivial . 
Let us hope his wrath will have passed away before Miss Crawley's departure . 
I hope so , for Miss Rose's sake , I am sure . 
What a charming reconciler and peacemaker money is ! Another admirable effect of Miss Crawley and her seventy thousand pounds is to be seen in the conduct of the two brothers Crawley . 
I mean the baronet and the rector , not OUR brothers but the former , who hate each other all the year round , become quite loving at Christmas . 
I wrote to you last year how the abominable horse racing rector was in the habit of preaching clumsy sermons at us at church , and how Sir Pitt snored in answer . 
by some strait laced notions of morality . 
He would have prayers in the house , I believe . 
Our sermon books are shut up when Miss Crawley arrives , and Mr. Pitt , whom she abominates , finds it convenient to go to town . 
Well , he is a very large young dandy . 
He has a DREADFUL REPUTATION among the ladies . 
Shall I tell you a compliment the Captain paid me ? I must , it is so pretty . 
One evening we actually had a dance there was Sir Huddleston Fuddleston and his family , Sir Giles Wapshot and his young ladies , and I don't know how many more . 
Well , I heard him say By Jove , she's a neat little filly ! meaning your humble servant and he did me the honour to dance two country dances with me . 
Poor Lady Crawley ! during most part of these gaieties , she is upstairs taking pills . 
Mrs. Bute has all of a sudden taken a great fancy to me . 
My dear Miss Sharp , she says , why not bring over your girls to the Rectory ? their cousins will be so happy to see them . 
I know what she means . 
Signor Clementi did not teach us the piano for nothing at which price Mrs. Bute hopes to get a professor for her children . 
They are a good deal worn now but , you know , we poor girls can't afford des fraiches toilettes . 
Happy , happy you ! who have but to drive to St . 
James's Street , and a dear mother who will give you any thing you ask . 
Farewell , dearest girl , Your affectionate Rebecca . 
Why did you ask that scoundrel , Rawdon Crawley , to dine ? said the Rector to his lady , as they were walking home through the park . 
I don't want the fellow . 
He looks down upon us country people as so many blackamoors . 
He shot a man in a duel he's over head and ears in debt , and he's robbed me and mine of the best part of Miss Crawley's fortune . 
I think she's going , said the Rector's wife . 
She was very red in the face when we left dinner . 
I was obliged to unlace her . 
We know nothing , said Mrs. Bute Crawley . 
She drank cherry brandy after dinner , continued his Reverence , and took curacao with her coffee . 
I wouldn't take a glass for a five pound note it kills me with heartburn . 
She can't stand it , Mrs. Crawley she must go flesh and blood won't bear it ! and I lay five to two , Matilda drops in a year . 
Pitt can't be such an infernal villain as to sell the reversion of the living . 
And that Methodist milksop of an eldest son looks to Parliament , continued Mr. Crawley , after a pause . 
Sir Pitt Crawley will do anything , said the Rector's wife . 
We must get Miss Crawley to make him promise it to James . 
Pitt will promise anything , replied the brother . 
I say it's un Christian . 
By Jove , it is . 
The infamous dog has got every vice except hypocrisy , and that belongs to his brother . 
Hush , my dearest love ! we're in Sir Pitt's grounds , interposed his wife . 
I say he has got every vice , Mrs. Crawley . 
Don't Ma'am , bully me . 
And you ask this villain into your house ! continued the exasperated Rector . 
You , the mother of a young family the wife of a clergyman of the Church of England . 
By Jove ! Bute Crawley , you are a fool , said the Rector's wife scornfully . 
Well , Ma'am , fool or not and I don't say , Martha , I'm so clever as you are , I never did . 
But I won't meet Rawdon Crawley , that's flat . 
I'll go over to Huddleston , that I will , and see his black greyhound , Mrs. Crawley and I'll run Lancelot against him for fifty . 
By Jove , I will or against any dog in England . 
But I won't meet that beast Rawdon Crawley . 
Mr. Crawley , you are intoxicated , as usual , replied his wife . 
Thus it will be seen that the parishioners of Crawley were equally happy in their Squire and in their Rector . 
Taking her accustomed drive , one day , she thought fit to order that that little governess should accompany her to Mudbury . 
Before they had returned Rebecca had made a conquest of her having made her laugh four times , and amused her during the whole of the little journey . 
Not let Miss Sharp dine at table ! said she to Sir Pitt , who had arranged a dinner of ceremony , and asked all the neighbouring baronets . 
Let Lady Crawley remain upstairs , if there is no room . 
As for the Misses Wapshot's toilettes and Lady Fuddleston's famous yellow hat , Miss Sharp tore them to tatters , to the infinite amusement of her audience . 
My dear , you are a perfect trouvaille , Miss Crawley would say . 
, flung up her head and said , I think Miss is very clever , with the most killing sarcastic air . 
In fact , Mrs. Firkin had that natural jealousy which is one of the main principles of every honest woman . 
We must sit together , she said . 
We're the only three Christians in the county , my love in which case , it must be confessed , that religion was at a very low ebb in the county of Hants . 
That was the most beautiful part of dear Lord Nelson's character , Miss Crawley said . 
He went to the deuce for a woman . 
There must be good in a man who will do that . 
I adore all impudent matches . 
Two post boys ! Oh , it would be delightful ! Rebecca owned . 
And what I like next best , is for a poor fellow to run away with a rich girl . 
I have set my heart on Rawdon running away with some one . 
A rich some one , or a poor some one ? Why , you goose ! Rawdon has not a shilling but what I give him . 
He is crible de dettes he must repair his fortunes , and succeed in the world . 
Is he very clever ? Rebecca asked . 
The Captain had distinguished her a great number of times before . 
The Captain had met her in a half score of walks . 
The Captain had lighted upon her in a half hundred of corridors and passages . 
What's that ? said Miss Crawley , interrupted in her after dinner doze by the stoppage of the music . 
It's a false note , Miss Sharp said with a laugh and Rawdon Crawley fumed with rage and mortification . 
came with Miss Sharp and of an evening some of the party would walk back together . 
O those stars , those stars ! Miss Rebecca would say , turning her twinkling green eyes up towards them . 
I feel myself almost a spirit when I gaze upon them . 
O ah Gad yes , so do I exactly , Miss Sharp , the other enthusiast replied . 
And so , in truth , she was for father and son too . 
It is quite edifying to hear women speculate upon the worthlessness and the duration of beauty . 
The young ladies in Amelia's society did this for her very satisfactorily . 
She made efforts to like them , as in duty bound , and as sisters of her future husband . 
She passed long mornings with them the most dreary and serious of forenoons . 
She drove out solemnly in their great family coach with them , and Miss Wirt their governess , that raw boned Vestal . 
They took her to the ancient concerts by way of a treat , and to the oratorio , and to St . 
Paul's to see the charity children , where in such terror was she of her friends , she almost did not dare be affected by the hymn the children sang . 
I'm so delighted you like dear Amelia , she said quite eagerly to Mr. Bullock after the dance . 
She's engaged to my brother George there's not much in her , but she's the best natured and most unaffected young creature at home we're all so fond of her . 
What an innocent it is , that pet of yours , Miss Maria would then say to Miss Jane , upon the Captain's departure . 
Modesty ! Awkwardness you mean , Jane . 
I don't want Frederick to trample a hole in my muslin frock , as Captain Dobbin did in yours at Mrs. Perkins' . 
He was with his sister , most likely , the Captain said . 
Should he go and fetch the truant ? So she gave him her hand kindly and gratefully and he crossed the square and she waited and waited , but George never came . 
Poor little tender heart ! and so it goes on hoping and beating , and longing and trusting . 
You see it is not much of a life to describe . 
There is not much of what you call incident in it . 
Only one feeling all day when will he come ? only one thought to sleep and wake upon . 
Once , after three days of absence , Miss Amelia put on her bonnet , and actually invaded the Osborne house . 
What ! leave our brother to come to us ? said the young ladies . 
Have you had a quarrel , Amelia ? Do tell us ! No , indeed , there had been no quarrel . 
Who could quarrel with him ? says she , with her eyes filled with tears . 
She only came over to to see her dear friends they had not met for so long . 
How was she to bare that timid little heart for the inspection of those young ladies with their bold black eyes ? It was best that it should shrink and hide itself . 
Miss Sedley was not of the sunflower sort and I say it is out of the rules of all proportion to draw a violet of the size of a double dahlia . 
Old Sedley once or twice came home with a very grave face and no wonder , when such news as this was agitating all the hearts and all the Stocks of Europe . 
Meanwhile matters went on in Russell Square , Bloomsbury , just as if matters in Europe were not in the least disorganised . 
The fact is , peace was declared , Europe was going to be at rest the Corsican was overthrown , and Lieutenant Osborne's regiment would not be ordered on service . 
That was the way in which Miss Amelia reasoned . 
The fate of Europe was Lieutenant George Osborne to her . 
His dangers being over , she sang Te Deum . 
He was her Europe her emperor her allied monarchs and august prince regent . 
He was her sun and moon and I believe she thought the grand illumination and ball at the Mansion House , given to the sovereigns , were especially in honour of George Osborne . 
We have talked of shift , self , and poverty , as those dismal instructors under whom poor Miss Becky Sharp got her education . 
Now , love was Miss Amelia Sedley's last tutoress , and it was amazing what progress our young lady made under that popular teacher . 
, arrayed in them , trip into the travelling carriage at St . 
George's , Hanover Square , and Lord Methuselah hobbled in after . 
With what an engaging modesty she pulled down the blinds of the chariot the dear innocent ! There were half the carriages of Vanity Fair at the wedding . 
loved , with all her heart , the young officer in His Majesty's service with whom we have made a brief acquaintance . 
She thought about him the very first moment on waking and his was the very last name mentioned m her prayers . 
She never had seen a man so beautiful or so clever such a figure on horseback such a dancer such a hero in general . 
Talk of the Prince's bow ! what was it to George's ? She had seen Mr. Brummell , whom everybody praised so . 
was there any one to equal him . 
It is in the nature and instinct of some women . 
Some are made to scheme , and some to love and I wish any respected bachelor that reads this may take the sort that best likes him . 
While under this overpowering impression , Miss Amelia neglected her twelve dear friends at Chiswick most cruelly , as such selfish people commonly will do . 
Alas , alas ! I fear poor Emmy had not a well regulated mind . 
What were her parents doing , not to keep this little heart from beating so fast ? Old Sedley did not seem much to notice matters . 
He was graver of late , and his City affairs absorbed him . 
Mrs. Sedley was of so easy and uninquisitive a nature that she wasn't even jealous . 
Mr. Jos was away , being besieged by an Irish widow at Cheltenham . 
and when he is with the regiment , he is too tired to write long letters . 
I know where she kept that packet she had and can steal in and out of her chamber like Iachimo like Iachimo ? No that is a bad part . 
I will only act Moonshine , and peep harmless into the bed where faith and beauty and innocence lie dreaming . 
Her letters were full of repetition . 
She wrote rather doubtful grammar sometimes , and in her verses took all sorts of liberties with the metre . 
He was seen lighting his cigar with one , to the horror of Captain Dobbin , who , it is my belief , would have given a bank note for the document . 
For some time George strove to keep the liaison a secret . 
There was a woman in the case , that he admitted . 
And not the first either , said Ensign Spooney to Ensign Stubble . 
That Osborne's a devil of a fellow . 
There was a judge's daughter at Demerara went almost mad about him then there was that beautiful quadroon girl , Miss Pye , at St . 
Vincent's , you know and since he's been home , they say he's a regular Don Giovanni , by Jove . 
He was famous in field sports , famous at a song , famous on parade free with his money , which was bountifully supplied by his father . 
His coats were better made than any man's in the regiment , and he had more of them . 
He was adored by the men . 
He could drink more than any officer of the whole mess , including old Heavytop , the colonel . 
and was the best batter and bowler , out and out , of the regimental club . 
He rode his own horse , Greased Lightning , and won the Garrison cup at Quebec races . 
There were other people besides Amelia who worshipped him . 
And the real state of the case would never have been known at all in the regiment but for Captain Dobbin's indiscretion . 
You're always talking nonsense and scandal . 
Osborne is not going to run off with a Duchess or ruin a milliner . 
Miss Sedley is one of the most charming young women that ever lived . 
He's been engaged to her ever so long and the man who calls her names had better not do so in my hearing . 
With which , turning exceedingly red , Dobbin ceased speaking , and almost choked himself with a cup of tea . 
to quarrel with Dobbin for betraying his secret . 
Who the deuce asked you to talk about my affairs ? Osborne shouted indignantly . 
Seems be hanged , Dobbin , his junior interrupted him . 
I am under obligations to you , I know it , a d d deal too well too but I won't be always sermonised by you because you're five years my senior . 
I'm hanged if I'll stand your airs of superiority and infernal pity and patronage . 
Pity and patronage ! I should like to know in what I'm your inferior ? Are you engaged ? Captain Dobbin interposed . 
What the devil's that to you or any one here if I am ? Are you ashamed of it ? Dobbin resumed . 
What right have you to ask me that question , sir ? I should like to know , George said . 
Good God , you don't mean to say you want to break off ? asked Dobbin , starting up . 
What have I done ? I've told you you were neglecting a sweet girl , George . 
I've told you that when you go to town you ought to go to her , and not to the gambling houses about St . 
You want your money back , I suppose , said George , with a sneer . 
Of course I do I always did , didn't I ? says Dobbin . 
You speak like a generous fellow . 
No , hang it , William , I beg your pardon here George interposed in a fit of remorse you have been my friend in a hundred ways , Heaven knows . 
You've got me out of a score of scrapes . 
When Crawley of the Guards won that sum of money of me I should have been done but for you I know I should . 
But you shouldn't deal so hardly with me you shouldn't be always catechising me . 
I am very fond of Amelia I adore her , and that sort of thing . 
She's faultless I know she is . 
But you see there's no fun in winning a thing unless you play for it . 
Hang it the regiment's just back from the West Indies , I must have a little fling , and then when I'm married I'll reform I will upon my honour , now . 
That I would , by Jove , Dobbin , George said , with the greatest generosity , though by the way he never had any money to spare . 
Only I wish you had sown those wild oats of yours , George . 
If you could have seen poor little Miss Emmy's face when she asked me about you the other day , you would have pitched those billiard balls to the deuce . 
Go and comfort her , you rascal . 
Go and write her a long letter . 
Do something to make her happy a very little will . 
I believe she's d d fond of me , the Lieutenant said , with a self satisfied air and went off to finish the evening with some jolly fellows in the mess room . 
I should have liked to make her a little present , Osborne said to his friend in confidence , only I am quite out of cash until my father tips up . 
Never mind you may be sure it was not his presents Amelia wanted . 
When he came to Russell Square , her face lighted up as if he had been sunshine . 
He beamed on her from the drawing room door magnificent , with ambrosial whiskers , like a god . 
the prettiest ornament ever seen . 
Some cynical Frenchman has said that there are two parties to a love transaction the one who loves and the other who condescends to be so treated . 
Perhaps the love is occasionally on the man's side perhaps on the lady's . 
I think I have seen such comedies of errors going on in the world . 
But this is certain , that Amelia believed her lover to be one of the most gallant and brilliant men in the empire and it is possible Lieutenant Osborne thought so too . 
As for remaining in the army as a married man , that was impossible . 
He loved her much too fondly to subject her to that horrid woman and her vulgarities , and the rough treatment of a soldier's wife . 
This invitation was accepted joyfully . 
It was not so with old Mr. Osborne . 
Dinner ! roared Mr. Osborne . 
Mr. George isn't come in , sir , interposed the man . 
Damn Mr. George , sir . 
Am I master of the house ? DINNER ! Mr. Osborne scowled . 
A telegraphic communication of eyes passed between the other three ladies . 
The obedient bell in the lower regions began ringing the announcement of the meal . 
What's the matter now , my dear ? asked one of the other , as they rose and tripped gingerly behind the sire . 
I suppose the funds are falling , whispered Miss Wirt and so , trembling and in silence , this hushed female company followed their dark leader . 
They took their places in silence . 
He growled out a blessing , which sounded as gruffly as a curse . 
The great silver dish covers were removed . 
Amelia trembled in her place , for she was next to the awful Osborne , and alone on her side of the table the gap being occasioned by the absence of George . 
Take Miss Sedley's plate away , at last he said . 
She can't eat the soup no more can I. It's beastly . 
Take away the soup , Hicks , and to morrow turn the cook out of the house , Jane . 
He could not come before . 
General Daguilet had kept him waiting at the Horse Guards . 
Never mind soup or fish . 
Give him anything he didn't care what . 
His good humour contrasted with his father's severity and he rattled on unceasingly during dinner , to the delight of all of one especially , who need not be mentioned . 
Amelia hoped George would soon join them there . 
at the great carved legged , leather cased grand piano in the drawing room overhead . 
This little artifice did not bring him . 
Old Osborne's scowl , terrific always , had never before looked so deadly to her . 
His eyes followed her out of the room , as if she had been guilty of something . 
When they brought her coffee , she started as though it were a cup of poison which Mr. Hicks , the butler , wished to propose to her . 
What mystery was there lurking ? Oh , those women ! They nurse and cuddle their presentiments , and make darlings of their ugliest thoughts , as they do of their deformed children . 
The gloom on the paternal countenance had also impressed George Osborne with anxiety . 
That was generally a successful means of cajoling the old gentleman . 
We never got such Madeira in the West Indies , sir , as yours . 
Colonel Heavytop took off three bottles of that you sent me down , under his belt the other day . 
Did he ? said the old gentleman . 
It stands me in eight shillings a bottle . 
Will you take six guineas a dozen for it , sir ? said George , with a laugh . 
There's one of the greatest men in the kingdom wants some . 
Does he ? growled the senior . 
Wish he may get it . 
When General Daguilet was at Chatham , sir , Heavytop gave him a breakfast , and asked me for some of the wine . 
The General liked it just as well wanted a pipe for the Commander in Chief . 
He's his Royal Highness's right hand man . 
And we'll see if that's as good as the Madeira , George , to which his Royal Highness is welcome , I'm sure . 
And as we are drinking it , I'll talk to you about a matter of importance . 
Amelia heard the claret bell ringing as she sat nervously upstairs . 
She thought , somehow , it was a mysterious and presentimental bell . 
Of the presentiments which some people are always having , some surely must come right . 
What capital wine ! What d'you mean , pretty clear , sir ? Why , hang it , sir , don't push me too hard . 
I ah I don't set up to be a lady killer but I do own that she's as devilish fond of me as she can be . 
Anybody can see that with half an eye . 
Haven't I heard of your doings , sir , with Lord Tarquin , Captain Crawley of the Guards , the Honourable Mr. Deuceace and that set . 
Have a care sir , have a care . 
The old gentleman pronounced these aristocratic names with the greatest gusto . 
Whenever he met a great man he grovelled before him , and my lorded him as only a free born Briton can do . 
He came home and looked out his history in the Peerage he introduced his name into his daily conversation he bragged about his Lordship to his daughters . 
He fell down prostrate and basked in him as a Neapolitan beggar does in the sun . 
George was alarmed when he heard the names . 
He feared his father might have been informed of certain transactions at play . 
But the old moralist eased him by saying serenely Well , well , young men will be young men . 
You shan't want , sir . 
The British merchant's son shan't want , sir . 
My guineas are as good as theirs , George , my boy and I don't grudge 'em . 
Call on Mr. Chopper as you go through the City to morrow he'll have something for you . 
I don't grudge money when I know you're in good society , because I know that good society can never go wrong . 
There's no pride in me . 
I was a humbly born man but you have had advantages . 
Make a good use of 'em . 
Mix with the young nobility . 
There's many of 'em who can't spend a dollar to your guinea , my boy . 
why boys will be boys . 
says George , cracking filberts . 
You and Mr. Sedley made the match a hundred years ago . 
I don't deny it but people's positions alter , sir . 
I've shown my gratitude to Sedley and he's tried it of late , sir , as my cheque book can show . 
George ! I tell you in confidence I don't like the looks of Mr. Sedley's affairs . 
My chief clerk , Mr. Chopper , does not like the looks of 'em , and he's an old file , and knows 'Change as well as any man in London . 
Hulker Bullock are looking shy at him . 
He's been dabbling on his own account I fear . 
They say the Jeune Amelie was his , which was taken by the Yankee privateer Molasses . 
And that's flat unless I see Amelia's ten thousand down you don't marry her . 
I'll have no lame duck's daughter in my family . 
Pass the wine , sir or ring for coffee . 
With which Mr. Osborne spread out the evening paper , and George knew from this signal that the colloquy was ended , and that his papa was about to take a nap . 
He hurried upstairs to Amelia in the highest spirits . 
As George entered the house , old John Sedley was passing out of the banker's parlour , looking very dismal . 
But his godson was much too elated to mark the worthy stockbroker's depression , or the dreary eyes which the kind old gentleman cast upon him . 
Young Bullock did not come grinning out of the parlour with him as had been his wont in former years . 
And as the swinging doors of Hulker , Bullock Co . 
, winked at Mr. Driver , the clerk at the desk on his right . 
No go , Mr. D. whispered . 
Not at no price , Mr. Q. said . 
Mr. George Osborne , sir , how will you take it ? George crammed eagerly a quantity of notes into his pockets , and paid Dobbin fifty pounds that very evening at mess . 
That very evening Amelia wrote him the tenderest of long letters . 
Her heart was overflowing with tenderness , but it still foreboded evil . 
What was the cause of Mr. Osborne's dark looks ? she asked . 
Poor little Emmy dear little Emmy . 
How fond she is of me , George said , as he perused the missive and Gad , what a headache that mixed punch has given me ! Poor little Emmy , indeed . 
It was the equipage of our friend Miss Crawley , returning from Hants . 
The carriage windows were shut the fat spaniel , whose head and tongue ordinarily lolled out of one of them , reposed on the lap of the discontented female . 
When the vehicle stopped , a large round bundle of shawls was taken out of the carriage by the aid of various domestics and a young lady who accompanied the heap of cloaks . 
That bundle contained Miss Crawley , who was conveyed upstairs forthwith , and put into a bed and chamber warmed properly as for the reception of an invalid . 
Messengers went off for her physician and medical man . 
They came , consulted , prescribed , vanished . 
The young companion of Miss Crawley , at the conclusion of their interview , came in to receive their instructions , and administered those antiphlogistic medicines which the eminent men ordered . 
Captain Crawley of the Life Guards rode up from Knightsbridge Barracks the next day his black charger pawed the straw before his invalid aunt's door . 
He was most affectionate in his inquiries regarding that amiable relative . 
There seemed to be much source of apprehension . 
unusually sulky and despondent he found Miss Briggs , her dame de compagnie , in tears alone in the drawing room . 
She had hastened home , hearing of her beloved friend's illness . 
She wished to fly to her couch , that couch which she , Briggs , had so often smoothed in the hour of sickness . 
She was denied admission to Miss Crawley's apartment . 
A stranger was administering her medicines a stranger from the country an odious Miss . 
tears choked the utterance of the dame de compagnie , and she buried her crushed affections and her poor old red nose in her pocket handkerchief . 
and the Captain coming out , curling his mustachios , mounted the black charger pawing among the straw , to the admiration of the little blackguard boys collected in the street . 
Briggs was so much choked by emotion that she could hardly take a morsel of meat . 
Had you not better give Miss Briggs a glass of wine ? said the person to Mr. Bowls , the large confidential man . 
Briggs seized it mechanically , gasped it down convulsively , moaned a little , and began to play with the chicken on her plate . 
I think we shall be able to help each other , said the person with great suavity and shall have no need of Mr. Bowls's kind services . 
Mr. Bowls , if you please , we will ring when we want you . 
He went downstairs , where , by the way , he vented the most horrid curses upon the unoffending footman , his subordinate . 
It is a pity you take on so , Miss Briggs , the young lady said , with a cool , slightly sarcastic , air . 
My dearest friend is so ill , and wo o on't see me , gurgled out Briggs in an agony of renewed grief . 
She's not very ill any more . 
Console yourself , dear Miss Briggs . 
She has only overeaten herself that is all . 
She will soon be quite restored again . 
She is weak from being cupped and from medical treatment , but she will rally immediately . 
Pray console yourself , and take a little more wine . 
But why , why won't she see me again ? Miss Briggs bleated out . 
she only won't see you , because she says you don't nurse her as well as I do . 
It's no pleasure to me to sit up all night . 
I wish you might do it instead . 
Have I not tended that dear couch for years ? Arabella said , and now Now she prefers somebody else . 
Well , sick people have these fancies , and must be humoured . 
When she's well I shall go . 
Never , never , Arabella exclaimed , madly inhaling her salts bottle . 
Never be well or never go , Miss Briggs ? the other said , with the same provoking good nature . 
You need not be jealous about me , my dear Miss Briggs . 
I am a poor little girl without any friends , or any harm in me . 
I don't want to supplant you in Miss Crawley's good graces . 
She will forget me a week after I am gone and her affection for you has been the work of years . 
Give me a little wine if you please , my dear Miss Briggs , and let us be friends . 
I'm sure I want friends . 
, went upstairs again to her patient's rooms , from which , with the most engaging politeness , she eliminated poor Firkin . 
Thank you , Mrs. Firkin , that will quite do how nicely you make it ! I will ring when anything is wanted . 
Thank you and Firkin came downstairs in a tempest of jealousy , only the more dangerous because she was forced to confine it in her own bosom . 
Briggs had been on the watch . 
Briggs too well heard the creaking Firkin descend the stairs , and the clink of the spoon and gruel basin the neglected female carried . 
Well , Firkin ? says she , as the other entered the apartment . 
Well , Jane ? Wuss and wuss , Miss B. , Firkin said , wagging her head . 
Is she not better then ? She never spoke but once , and I asked her if she felt a little more easy , and she told me to hold my stupid tongue . 
Oh , Miss B. , I never thought to have seen this day ! And the water works again began to play . 
Miss B. , they are all infatyated about that young woman , Firkin replied . 
Sir Pitt wouldn't have let her go , but he daredn't refuse Miss Crawley anything . 
Mrs. Bute at the Rectory jist as bad never happy out of her sight . 
The Capting quite wild about her . 
Since Miss C. was took ill , she won't have nobody near her but Miss Sharp , I can't tell for where nor for why and I think somethink has bewidged everybody . 
Captain Crawley came every day , and received bulletins from Miss Rebecca respecting his aunt's health . 
Miss Crawley liked to have Briggs in a good deal soon . 
Rebecca used to mimic her to her face with the most admirable gravity , thereby rendering the imitation doubly piquant to her worthy patroness . 
The Baronet did not disguise his exceeding mortification at the turn which affairs took . 
Firkin had been deposed long before her mistress's departure from the country . 
Captain Rawdon got an extension of leave on his aunt's illness , and remained dutifully at home . 
He was always in her antechamber . 
What was it set one to watch the other so ? A generous rivalry , no doubt , as to which should be most attentive to the dear sufferer in the state bedroom . 
Rebecca used to come out and comfort both of them or one or the other of them rather . 
Both of these worthy gentlemen were most anxious to have news of the invalid from her little confidential messenger . 
Picture to yourself , oh fair young reader , a worldly , selfish , graceless , thankless , religionless old woman , writhing in pain and fear , and without her wig . 
Picture her to yourself , and ere you be old , learn to love and pray ! Sharp watched this graceless bedside with indomitable patience . 
Nothing escaped her and , like a prudent steward , she found a use for everything . 
She told many a good story about Miss Crawley's illness in after days stories which made the lady blush through her artificial carnations . 
During the illness she was never out of temper always alert she slept light , having a perfectly clear conscience and could take that refreshment at almost any minute's warning . 
And so you saw very few traces of fatigue in her appearance . 
The Captain thought so , and raved about her in uncouth convulsions . 
The barbed shaft of love had penetrated his dull hide . 
Six weeks appropinquity opportunity had victimised him completely . 
He made a confidante of his aunt at the Rectory , of all persons in the world . 
Rawdon must go away go back to his regiment and naughty London , and not play with a poor artless girl's feelings . 
Rawdon saw there was a manifest intention on Mrs. Bute's part to captivate him with Rebecca . 
He was not very wise but he was a man about town , and had seen several seasons . 
A light dawned upon his dusky soul , as he thought , through a speech of Mrs. Bute's . 
Mark my words , Rawdon , she said . 
You will have Miss Sharp one day for your relation . 
What relation my cousin , hey , Mrs. Bute ? James sweet on her , hey ? inquired the waggish officer . 
More than that , Mrs. Bute said , with a flash from her black eyes . 
Not Pitt ? He sha'n't have her . 
The sneak a'n't worthy of her . 
He's booked to Lady Jane Sheepshanks . 
You silly , blind creature if anything happens to Lady Crawley , Miss Sharp will be your mother in law and that's what will happen . 
Rawdon Crawley , Esquire , gave vent to a prodigious whistle , in token of astonishment at this announcement . 
His father's evident liking for Miss Sharp had not escaped him . 
When he saw Rebecca alone , he rallied her about his father's attachment in his graceful way . 
She flung up her head scornfully , looked him full in the face , and said , Well , suppose he is fond of me . 
I know he is , and others too . 
You don't think I am afraid of him , Captain Crawley ? You don't suppose I can't defend my own honour , said the little woman , looking as stately as a queen . 
Oh , ah , why give you fair warning look out , you know that's all , said the mustachio twiddler . 
You hint at something not honourable , then ? said she , flashing out . 
O Gad really Miss Rebecca , the heavy dragoon interposed . 
No , she continued , kindling as she spoke to the Captain I can endure poverty , but not shame neglect , but not insult and insult from from you . 
Her feelings gave way , and she burst into tears . 
Hang it , Miss Sharp Rebecca by Jove upon my soul , I wouldn't for a thousand pounds . 
Stop , Rebecca ! She was gone . 
She drove out with Miss Crawley that day . 
It was before the latter's illness . 
At dinner she was unusually brilliant and lively but she would take no notice of the hints , or the nods , or the clumsy expostulations of the humiliated , infatuated guardsman . 
Skirmishes of this sort passed perpetually during the little campaign tedious to relate , and similar in result . 
The Crawley heavy cavalry was maddened by defeat , and routed every day . 
The old house at home seemed a desert without her , so useful and pleasant had Rebecca made herself there . 
Sir Pitt's letters were not copied and corrected his books not made up his household business and manifold schemes neglected , now that his little secretary was away . 
Nor though the old lady would by no means hear of Rebecca's departure , was the latter regularly installed in office in Park Lane . 
Gratitude among certain rich folks is scarcely natural or to be thought of . 
They take needy people's services as their due . 
Nor have you , O poor parasite and humble hanger on , much reason to complain ! Your friendship for Dives is about as sincere as the return which it usually gets . 
It must have often crossed Miss Crawley's mind that nobody does anything for nothing . 
When Miss Crawley was convalescent and descended to the drawing room , Becky sang to her , and otherwise amused her when she was well enough to drive out , Becky accompanied her . 
Ere that event , many notes had passed , as may be imagined , between the two dear friends . 
suffered considerable diminution , and grown so decrepit and feeble with old age as to threaten demise altogether . 
The fact is , both girls had their own real affairs to think of Rebecca her advance with her employers Amelia her own absorbing topic . 
Poor little Amelia blushed as she kissed her friend , and thought she had been guilty of something very like coldness towards her . 
Their first interview was but a very short one . 
Amelia was just ready to go out for a walk . 
What a complexion , my dear ! What a sweet voice ! Miss Crawley said , as they drove away westward after the little interview . 
My dear Sharp , your young friend is charming . 
Send for her to Park Lane , do you hear ? Miss Crawley had a good taste . 
She liked natural manners a little timidity only set them off . 
She liked pretty faces near her as she liked pretty pictures and nice china . 
She talked of Amelia with rapture half a dozen times that day . 
She mentioned her to Rawdon Crawley , who came dutifully to partake of his aunt's chicken . 
Of course , on this Rebecca instantly stated that Amelia was engaged to be married to a Lieutenant Osborne a very old flame . 
Is he a man in a line regiment ? Captain Crawley asked , remembering after an effort , as became a guardsman , the number of the regiment , the th . 
Rebecca thought that was the regiment . 
The Captain's name , she said , was Captain Dobbin . 
A lanky gawky fellow , said Crawley , tumbles over everybody . 
I know him and Osborne's a goodish looking fellow , with large black whiskers ? Enormous , Miss Rebecca Sharp said , and enormously proud of them , I assure you . 
Captain Rawdon Crawley burst into a horse laugh by way of reply and being pressed by the ladies to explain , did so when the explosion of hilarity was over . 
He fancies he can play at billiards , said he . 
I won two hundred of him at the Cocoa Tree . 
Why , ma'am , of all the young fellows I've seen out of the line , I think this fellow's the greenest . 
Tarquin and Deuceace get what money they like out of him . 
He'd go to the deuce to be seen with a lord . 
He pays their dinners at Greenwich , and they invite the company . 
And very pretty company too , I dare say . 
Quite right , Miss Sharp . 
Right , as usual , Miss Sharp . 
Uncommon pretty company haw , haw ! and the Captain laughed more and more , thinking he had made a good joke . 
Rawdon , don't be naughty ! his aunt exclaimed . 
Well , his father's a City man immensely rich , they say . 
Hang those City fellows , they must bleed and I've not done with him yet , I can tell you . 
Haw , haw ! Fie , Captain Crawley I shall warn Amelia . 
Is he a presentable sort of a person ? the aunt inquired . 
Presentable ? oh , very well . 
You wouldn't see any difference , Captain Crawley answered . 
Do let's have him , when you begin to see a few people and his whatdyecallem his inamorato eh , Miss Sharp that's what you call it comes . 
Gad , I'll write him a note , and have him and I'll try if he can play piquet as well as billiards . 
It was arranged that Amelia was to spend the morning with the ladies of Park Lane , where all were very kind to her . 
Miss Crawley's graciousness was also remarkable . 
I admire that admiration which the genteel world sometimes extends to the commonalty . 
There is no more agreeable object in life than to see Mayfair folks condescending . 
Miss Crawley's prodigious benevolence rather fatigued poor little Amelia , and I am not sure that of the three ladies in Park Lane she did not find honest Miss Briggs the most agreeable . 
She sympathised with Briggs as with all neglected or gentle people she wasn't what you call a woman of spirit . 
George came to dinner a repast en garcon with Captain Crawley . 
That is , if you're not on duty to that pretty Miss Sedley , Crawley said , with a knowing wink . 
Monstrous nice girl , 'pon my honour , though , Osborne , he was good enough to add . 
How's little Miss Sharp , by the bye ? Osborne inquired of his friend over their wine , with a dandified air . 
Good natured little girl that . 
Does she suit you well at Queen's Crawley ? Miss Sedley liked her a good deal last year . 
Captain Crawley looked savagely at the Lieutenant out of his little blue eyes , and watched him when he went up to resume his acquaintance with the fair governess . 
Her conduct must have relieved Crawley if there was any jealousy in the bosom of that life guardsman . 
When the young men went upstairs , and after Osborne's introduction to Miss Crawley , he walked up to Rebecca with a patronising , easy swagger . 
He was going to be kind to her and protect her . 
How are those young ladies ? not that I ought to ask . 
Why not ? Mr. Osborne said , amazed . 
My dear Miss Sharp ! Osborne ejaculated . 
At least in some families , Rebecca continued . 
You can't think what a difference there is though . 
We are not so wealthy in Hampshire as you lucky folks of the City . 
But then I am in a gentleman's family good old English stock . 
I suppose you know Sir Pitt's father refused a peerage . 
And you see how I am treated . 
Indeed it is rather a good place . 
But how very good of you to inquire ! Osborne was quite savage . 
I thought you liked the City families pretty well , he said , haughtily . 
Last year you mean , when I was fresh from that horrid vulgar school ? Of course I did . 
As for dear Amelia , she , I grant you , is a pearl , and would be charming anywhere . 
, I wouldn't have said no . 
I'm frank and open considering all things , it was very kind of you to allude to the circumstance very kind and polite . 
Amelia dear , Mr. Osborne and I were talking about your poor brother Joseph . 
How is he ? Thus was George utterly routed . 
Not that Rebecca was in the right but she had managed most successfully to put him in the wrong . 
And he now shamefully fled , feeling , if he stayed another minute , that he would have been made to look foolish in the presence of Amelia . 
in all of which opinions Crawley agreed laughingly , and with every one of which Miss Rebecca was made acquainted before twenty four hours were over . 
They added to her original regard for Mr. Osborne . 
Her woman's instinct had told her that it was George who had interrupted the success of her first love passage , and she esteemed him accordingly . 
Thank you , my boy , said Crawley , with a look of peculiar gratitude . 
You're wide awake , I see . 
And George went off , thinking Crawley was quite right . 
Against whom ? Amelia cried . 
O George , what have you done ? Amelia said . 
And regarding this delightful secret , not one syllable more was said by either of the young women . 
But it was destined to come out before long . 
It was over Sir Pitt Crawley's house but it did not indicate the worthy baronet's demise . 
It was a feminine hatchment , and indeed a few years back had served as a funeral compliment to Sir Pitt's old mother , the late dowager Lady Crawley . 
Its period of service over , the hatchment had come down from the front of the house , and lived in retirement somewhere in the back premises of Sir Pitt's mansion . 
It reappeared now for poor Rose Dawson . 
Sir Pitt was a widower again . 
The arms quartered on the shield along with his own were not , to be sure , poor Rose's . 
But the cherubs painted on the scutcheon answered as well for her as for Sir Pitt's mother , and Resurgam was written under the coat , flanked by the Crawley Dove and Serpent . 
Arms and Hatchments , Resurgam . 
Here is an opportunity for moralising ! Mr. Crawley had tended that otherwise friendless bedside . 
She went out of the world strengthened by such words and comfort as he could give her . 
For many years his was the only kindness she ever knew the only friendship that solaced in any way that feeble , lonely soul . 
Her heart was dead long before her body . 
She had sold it to become Sir Pitt Crawley's wife . 
Mothers and daughters are making the same bargain every day in Vanity Fair . 
When the demise took place , her husband was in London attending to some of his innumerable schemes , and busy with his endless lawyers . 
The news of Lady Crawley's death provoked no more grief or comment than might have been expected in Miss Crawley's family circle . 
What a confounded rage Pitt will be in if he does , Rawdon remarked , with his usual regard for his elder brother . 
She seemed by far the gravest and most impressed of the family . 
She left the room before Rawdon went away that day but they met by chance below , as he was going away after taking leave , and had a parley together . 
My dear , I can't see him . 
Tell Bowls not at home , or go downstairs and say I'm too ill to receive any one . 
My nerves really won't bear my brother at this moment , cried out Miss Crawley , and resumed the novel . 
She's too ill to see you , sir , Rebecca said , tripping down to Sir Pitt , who was preparing to ascend . 
So much the better , Sir Pitt answered . 
I want to see YOU , Miss Becky . 
Come along a me into the parlour , and they entered that apartment together . 
His eyes had such a strange look , and fixed upon her so steadfastly , that Rebecca Sharp began almost to tremble . 
I hope to come soon , she said in a low voice , as soon as Miss Crawley is better and return to to the dear children . 
I tell you I want you . 
I'm going back to the Vuneral . 
Will you come back ? Yes or no ? I daren't I don't think it would be right to be alone with you , sir , Becky said , seemingly in great agitation . 
I say agin , I want you , Sir Pitt said , thumping the table . 
I can't git on without you . 
I didn't see what it was till you went away . 
The house all goes wrong . 
It's not the same place . 
All my accounts has got muddled agin . 
Dear Becky , do come . 
Come as what , sir ? Rebecca gasped out . 
Come as Lady Crawley , if you like , the Baronet said , grasping his crape hat . 
There ! will that zatusfy you ? Come back and be my wife . 
You're as good a lady as ever I see . 
You've got more brains in your little vinger than any baronet's wife in the county . 
Will you come ? Yes or no ? Oh , Sir Pitt ! Rebecca said , very much moved . 
Say yes , Becky , Sir Pitt continued . 
I'm an old man , but a good'n . 
I'm good for twenty years . 
I'll make you happy , zee if I don't . 
You shall do what you like spend what you like and 'ave it all your own way . 
I'll make you a zettlement . 
Look year ! and the old man fell down on his knees and leered at her like a satyr . 
Rebecca started back a picture of consternation . 
Oh , Sir Pitt ! she said . 
Oh , sir I I'm married ALREADY . 
Married you're joking , the Baronet cried , after the first explosion of rage and wonder . 
You're making vun of me , Becky . 
Sir Pitt , dear Sir Pitt , do not think me ungrateful for all your goodness to me . 
It is only your generosity that has extorted my secret . 
Generosity be hanged ! Sir Pitt roared out . 
Well , Becky come back if you like . 
You can't eat your cake and have it . 
Any ways I made you a vair offer . 
Coom back as governess you shall have it all your own way . 
She held out one hand . 
She cried fit to break her heart her ringlets fell over her face , and over the marble mantelpiece where she laid it . 
So the rascal ran off , eh ? Sir Pitt said , with a hideous attempt at consolation . 
Never mind , Becky , I'LL take care of 'ee . 
When I think of what you have just offered me , my heart fills with gratitude indeed it does . 
I can't be your wife , sir let me let me be your daughter . 
, looked up in his face with an expression of exquisite pathos and confidence , when when the door opened , and Miss Crawley sailed in . 
It is the lady on the ground , and not the gentleman , Miss Crawley said , with a look and voice of great scorn . 
Refused him ! Miss Crawley said , more bewildered than ever . 
Briggs and Firkin at the door opened the eyes of astonishment and the lips of wonder . 
Yes refused , Rebecca continued , with a sad , tearful voice . 
And am I to credit my ears that you absolutely proposed to her , Sir Pitt ? the old lady asked . 
Ees , said the Baronet , I did . 
And she refused you as she says ? Ees , Sir Pitt said , his features on a broad grin . 
It does not seem to break your heart at any rate , Miss Crawley remarked . 
Nawt a bit , answered Sir Pitt , with a coolness and good humour which set Miss Crawley almost mad with bewilderment . 
It surpassed any complications of intrigue in her favourite Pigault le Brun . 
I'm glad you think it good sport , brother , she continued , groping wildly through this amazement . 
Vamous , said Sir Pitt . 
Who'd ha' thought it ! what a sly little devil ! what a little fox it waws ! he muttered to himself , chuckling with pleasure . 
Who'd have thought what ? cries Miss Crawley , stamping with her foot . 
You would have accepted it yourself , wouldn't you , Briggs ? Miss Crawley said , kindly . 
Would it not be a privilege to be Miss Crawley's sister ? Briggs replied , with meek evasion . 
Her manners are excellent , now I have formed her . 
Briggs coincided as usual , and the previous attachment was then discussed in conjectures . 
You poor friendless creatures are always having some foolish tendre , Miss Crawley said . 
, and I suppose this unfortunate Becky has been silly and sentimental too some apothecary , or house steward , or painter , or young curate , or something of that sort . 
Poor thing , poor thing ! says Briggs . 
Once more she was a fresh cheeked lass of eighteen she was at evening church , and the hectic writing master and she were quavering out of the same psalm book . 
After such conduct on Rebecca's part , Miss Crawley said enthusiastically , our family should do something . 
Find out who is the objet , Briggs . 
And expressing her approval of Rebecca's conduct , she asked particulars of the interview , and the previous transactions which had brought about the astonishing offer of Sir Pitt . 
You have guessed right , dear lady , she said , with a sweet simple faltering voice . 
You wonder at one so poor and friendless having an attachment , don't you ? I have never heard that poverty was any safeguard against it . 
I wish you could , dear Madam , Rebecca said in the same tearful tone . 
Indeed , indeed , I need it . 
And now who is it , my dear ? Is it that pretty Miss Sedley's brother ? You said something about an affair with him . 
I'll ask him here , my dear . 
And you shall have him indeed you shall . 
Don't ask me now , Rebecca said . 
You shall know all soon . 
Dear kind Miss Crawley dear friend , may I say so ? That you may , my child , the old lady replied , kissing her . 
I can't tell you now , sobbed out Rebecca , I am very miserable . 
But O ! love me always promise you will love me always . 
And now she was left alone to think over the sudden and wonderful events of the day , and of what had been and what might have been . 
In this natural emotion every properly regulated mind will certainly share . 
I remember one night being in the Fair myself , at an evening party . 
You know , she said , Mrs. Briefless is granddaughter of Sir John Redhand , who is so ill at Cheltenham that he can't last six months . 
Mrs. Briefless's papa succeeds so you see she will be a baronet's daughter . 
And Toady asked Briefless and his wife to dinner the very next week . 
I might have thanked Mrs. Bute for her patronage , and Mr. Pitt for his insufferable condescension . 
I would have had the town house newly furnished and decorated . 
I would have had the handsomest carriage in London , and a box at the opera and I would have been presented next season . 
All this might have been and now now all was doubt and mystery . 
And she surveyed her position , and its hopes , doubts , and chances . 
In the first place , she was MARRIED that was a great fact . 
She was not so much surprised into the avowal , as induced to make it by a sudden calculation . 
It must have come some day and why not now as at a later period ? He who would have married her himself must at least be silent with regard to her marriage . 
How Miss Crawley would bear the news was the great question . 
At all events , what use was there in delaying ? the die was thrown , and now or to morrow the issue must be the same . 
In this state of meditation she wrote the following letter Dearest Friend , The great crisis which we have debated about so often is COME . 
Half of my secret is known , and I have thought and thought , until I am quite sure that now is the time to reveal THE WHOLE OF THE MYSTERY . 
Sir Pitt came to me this morning , and made what do you think ? A DECLARATION IN FORM . 
Think of that ! Poor little me . 
I might have been Lady Crawley . 
Ma tante is ACTUALLY ANGRY that I should have refused him . 
But she is all kindness and graciousness . 
She condescends to say I would have made him a good wife and vows that she will be a mother to your little Rebecca . 
She will be shaken when she first hears the news . 
But need we fear anything beyond a momentary anger ? I think not I AM SURE not . 
, that she would pardon you ANYTHING and , indeed , I believe , the next place in her heart is mine and that she would be miserable without me . 
Dearest ! something TELLS ME we shall conquer . 
I shall try and walk to morrow at in the usual place . 
If Miss B. accompanies me , you must come to dinner , and bring an answer , and put it in the third volume of Porteus's Sermons . 
But , at all events , come to your own R. To Miss Eliza Styles , At Mr. Barnet's , Saddler , Knightsbridge . 
, wore brass spurs , and large curling mustachios , and was indeed no other than Captain Rawdon Crawley . 
CHAPTER XVI The Letter on the Pincushion How they were married is not of the slightest consequence to anybody . 
When she sang , every note thrilled in his dull soul , and tingled through his huge frame . 
When she spoke , he brought all the force of his brains to listen and wonder . 
Her words were oracles to him , her smallest actions marked by an infallible grace and wisdom . 
How she sings , how she paints , thought he . 
There was no need for him to put his letter into the third volume of Porteus . 
Rebecca easily found a means to get rid of Briggs , her companion , and met her faithful friend in the usual place on the next day . 
She had thought over matters at night , and communicated to Rawdon the result of her determinations . 
Had Rebecca's resolutions been entirely different , he would have followed them as implicitly . 
You have head enough for both of us , Beck , said he . 
You're sure to get us out of the scrape . 
I never saw your equal , and I've met with some clippers in my time too . 
And with this simple confession of faith , the love stricken dragoon left her to execute his part of the project which she had formed for the pair . 
It consisted simply in the hiring of quiet lodgings at Brompton , or in the neighbourhood of the barracks , for Captain and Mrs. Crawley . 
For Rebecca had determined , and very prudently , we think , to fly . 
Rawdon was only too happy at her resolve he had been entreating her to take this measure any time for weeks past . 
He pranced off to engage the lodgings with all the impetuosity of love . 
He agreed to pay two guineas a week so readily , that the landlady regretted she had asked him so little . 
He ordered in a piano , and half a nursery house full of flowers and a heap of good things . 
As for shawls , kid gloves , silk stockings , gold French watches , bracelets and perfumery , he sent them in with the profusion of blind love and unbounded credit . 
And having relieved his mind by this outpouring of generosity , he went and dined nervously at the club , waiting until the great moment of his life should come . 
An event of this nature , a marriage , or a refusal , or a proposal , thrills through a whole household of women , and sets all their hysterical sympathies at work . 
As an observer of human nature , I regularly frequent St . 
And wherefore ? I inquired of my own soul she was not going to be married . 
In her absence Miss Crawley solaced herself with the most sentimental of the novels in her library . 
Little Sharp , with her secret griefs , was the heroine of the day . 
That night Rebecca sang more sweetly and talked more pleasantly than she had ever been heard to do in Park Lane . 
She twined herself round the heart of Miss Crawley . 
My dear little creature , the old lady said , I don't intend to let you stir for years , that you may depend upon it . 
As for going back to that odious brother of mine after what has passed , it is out of the question . 
Here you stay with me and Briggs . 
Briggs wants to go to see her relations very often . 
Briggs , you may go when you like . 
But as for you , my dear , you must stay and take care of the old woman . 
No answer was returned , and she knocked again . 
Silence was still uninterrupted and Betty , with the hot water , opened the door and entered the chamber . 
The little white dimity bed was as smooth and trim as on the day previous , when Betty's own hands had helped to make it . 
It had been reposing there probably all night . 
Dear Miss Briggs the refugee wrote , the kindest heart in the world , as yours is , will pity and sympathise with me and excuse me . 
With tears , and prayers , and blessings , I leave the home where the poor orphan has ever met with kindness and affection . 
Claims even superior to those of my benefactress call me hence . 
I go to my duty to my HUSBAND . 
Yes , I am married . 
My husband COMMANDS me to seek the HUMBLE HOME which we call ours . 
Dearest Miss Briggs , break the news as your delicate sympathy will know how to do it to my dear , my beloved friend and benefactress . 
I told Sir Pitt that I was already A WIFE . 
At his COMMAND I open my lips , and follow him to our humble home , as I would THROUGH THE WORLD . 
O , my excellent and kind friend , intercede with my Rawdon's beloved aunt for him and the poor girl to whom all HIS NOBLE RACE have shown such UNPARALLELED AFFECTION . 
Ask Miss Crawley to receive HER CHILDREN . 
I can say no more , but blessings , blessings on all in the dear house I leave , prays Your affectionate and GRATEFUL Rebecca Crawley . 
Just as Briggs had finished reading this affecting and interesting document , which reinstated her in her position as first confidante of Miss Crawley , Mrs. Firkin entered the room . 
Oh , Mrs. Firkin , gasped Betty , sech a business . 
And this awful conduct , Mrs. Bute said , will have at least this good effect , it will open poor dear Miss Crawley's eyes to the real character of this wicked man . 
And she refused Sir Pitt , my dear , dear Miss Crawley , prepare yourself for it , Mrs. Bute said , because because she couldn't help herself . 
Of course there was a reason , Miss Crawley answered . 
I told Briggs so yesterday . 
LIKES somebody else ! Briggs gasped . 
O my dear friend , she is married already . 
Married already , Mrs. Bute chimed in and both sate with clasped hands looking from each other at their victim . 
Send her to me , the instant she comes in . 
The little sly wretch how dared she not tell me ? cried out Miss Crawley . 
She won't come in soon . 
Prepare yourself , dear friend she's gone out for a long time she's she's gone altogether . 
Gracious goodness , and who's to make my chocolate ? Send for her and have her back I desire that she come back , the old lady said . 
She decamped last night , Ma'am , cried Mrs. Bute . 
She left a letter for me , Briggs exclaimed . 
She's married to Prepare her , for heaven's sake . 
Don't torture her , my dear Miss Briggs . 
She's married to whom ? cries the spinster in a nervous fury . 
To to a relation of She refused Sir Pitt , cried the victim . 
O Ma'am prepare her , Miss Briggs she's married to Rawdon Crawley . 
Her mother was an opera girl , and she has been on the stage or worse herself , said Mrs. Bute . 
Miss Crawley gave a final scream , and fell back in a faint . 
They were forced to take her back to the room which she had just quitted . 
One fit of hysterics succeeded another . 
The doctor was sent for the apothecary arrived . 
Mrs. Bute took up the post of nurse by her bedside . 
Her relations ought to be round about her , that amiable woman said . 
She had scarcely been carried up to her room , when a new person arrived to whom it was also necessary to break the news . 
Where's Becky ? he said , coming in . 
Where's her traps ? She's coming with me to Queen's Crawley . 
Have you not heard the astonishing intelligence regarding her surreptitious union ? Briggs asked . 
What's that to me ? Sir Pitt asked . 
Tell her to come down at once , and not keep me . 
Miss Horrocks , the butler's daughter , took some of them . 
The children dressed themselves and acted plays in the others . 
It was but a few days after the poor mother had gone to her lonely burying place and was laid , unwept and disregarded , in a vault full of strangers . 
Suppose the old lady doesn't come to , Rawdon said to his little wife , as they sate together in the snug little Brompton lodgings . 
She had been trying the new piano all the morning . 
You can do anything , he said , kissing the little hand . 
By Jove you can and we'll drive down to the Star and Garter , and dine , by Jove . 
Even with the most selfish disposition , the Vanity Fairian , as he witnesses this sordid part of the obsequies of a departed friend , can't but feel some sympathies and regret . 
My Lord Dives's remains are in the family vault the statuaries are cutting an inscription veraciously commemorating his virtues , and the sorrows of his heir , who is disposing of his goods . 
What guest at Dives's table can pass the familiar house without a sigh ? . 
How changed the house is , though ! The front is patched over with bills , setting forth the particulars of the furniture in staring capitals . 
Old women and amateurs have invaded the upper apartments , pinching the bed curtains , poking into the feathers , shampooing the mattresses , and clapping the wardrobe drawers to and fro . 
had been purchased for his master , who knew them very well , by the butler of our friend John Osborne , Esquire , of Russell Square . 
A small portion of the most useful articles of the plate had been bought by some young stockbrokers from the City . 
No. , roared Mr. Hammerdown . 
Portrait of a gentleman on an elephant . 
Who'll bid for the gentleman on the elephant ? Lift up the picture , Blowman , and let the company examine this lot . 
A long , pale , military looking gentleman , seated demurely at the mahogany table , could not help grinning as this valuable lot was shown by Mr. Blowman . 
Turn the elephant to the Captain , Blowman . 
What shall we say , sir , for the elephant ? but the Captain , blushing in a very hurried and discomfited manner , turned away his head . 
Shall we say twenty guineas for this work of art ? fifteen , five , name your own price . 
The gentleman without the elephant is worth five pound . 
there was a general giggle in the room . 
How much for this lot ? Come , gentlemen , don't keep me here all day . 
, and for it , when its turn came , her agent began to bid . 
But there was an opposition here . 
The sale was at the old house in Russell Square , where we passed some evenings together at the beginning of this story . 
Good old John Sedley was a ruined man . 
His name had been proclaimed as a defaulter on the Stock Exchange , and his bankruptcy and commercial extermination had followed . 
Mr. Osborne's butler came to buy some of the famous port wine to transfer to the cellars over the way . 
As for one dozen well manufactured silver spoons and forks at per oz . 
Jos Sedley had acted as a man of his disposition would , when the announcement of the family misfortune reached him . 
This done , Jos went on at the boarding house at Cheltenham pretty much as before . 
He drove his curricle he drank his claret he played his rubber he told his Indian stories , and the Irish widow consoled and flattered him as usual . 
with a handsome fortune in and is now living in splendour , and with a numerous family , at his elegant villa , Muswell Hill . 
But we must not let the recollections of this good fellow cause us to diverge from the principal history . 
A month after her flight , she had bethought her of Amelia , and Rawdon , with a horse laugh , had expressed a perfect willingness to see young George Osborne again . 
He's a very agreeable acquaintance , Beck , the wag added . 
I'd like to sell him another horse , Beck . 
I'd like to play a few more games at billiards with him . 
The old aunt was long in coming to . 
Rawdon was denied the door by Mr. Bowls his servants could not get a lodgment in the house at Park Lane his letters were sent back unopened . 
Miss Crawley never stirred out she was unwell and Mrs. Bute remained still and never left her . 
Crawley and his wife both of them augured evil from the continued presence of Mrs. Bute . 
Gad , I begin to perceive now why she was always bringing us together at Queen's Crawley , Rawdon said . 
What an artful little woman ! ejaculated Rebecca . 
A good housewife is of necessity a humbug and Cornelia's husband was hoodwinked , as Potiphar was only in a different way . 
By these attentions , that veteran rake , Rawdon Crawley , found himself converted into a very happy and submissive married man . 
His former haunts knew him not . 
They asked about him once or twice at his clubs , but did not miss him much in those booths of Vanity Fair people seldom do miss each other . 
His secluded wife ever smiling and cheerful , his little comfortable lodgings , snug meals , and homely evenings , had all the charms of novelty and secrecy . 
The marriage was not yet declared to the world , or published in the Morning Post . 
All his creditors would have come rushing on him in a body , had they known that he was united to a woman without fortune . 
So she lived at Brompton , and meanwhile saw no one , or only those few of her husband's male companions who were admitted into her little dining room . 
These were all charmed with her . 
The little dinners , the laughing and chatting , the music afterwards , delighted all who participated in these enjoyments . 
Major Martingale never thought about asking to see the marriage licence , Captain Cinqbars was perfectly enchanted with her skill in making punch . 
He lived comfortably on credit . 
How did this begin , we say , or where will it end ? My dear fellow , I heard Jack once say , I owe money in every capital in Europe . 
Truth obliges us to confess that Rebecca had married a gentleman of this order . 
Look at them with their hooked beaks , Becky said , getting into the buggy , her picture under her arm , in great glee . 
They're like vultures after a battle . 
Never was in action , my dear . 
Ask Martingale he was in Spain , aide de camp to General Blazes . 
He was a very kind old man , Mr. Sedley , Rebecca said I'm really sorry he's gone wrong . 
O stockbrokers bankrupts used to it , you know , Rawdon replied , cutting a fly off the horse's ear . 
I wish we could have afforded some of the plate , Rawdon , the wife continued sentimentally . 
Five and twenty guineas was monstrously dear for that little piano . 
We chose it at Broadwood's for Amelia , when she came from school . 
It only cost five and thirty then . 
What d' ye call'em 'Osborne , will cry off now , I suppose , since the family is smashed . 
How cut up your pretty little friend will be hey , Becky ? I daresay she'll recover it , Becky said with a smile and they drove on and talked about something else . 
In the first place , her father's fortune was swept down with that fatal news . 
All his speculations had of late gone wrong with the luckless old gentleman . 
Ventures had failed merchants had broken funds had risen when he calculated they would fall . 
What need to particularize ? If success is rare and slow , everybody knows how quick and easy ruin is . 
Old Sedley had kept his own sad counsel . 
She's not happy , the mother went on . 
I've no patience with the airs of those people . 
The girls have not been in the house these three weeks and George has been twice in town without coming . 
Edward Dale saw him at the Opera . 
Edward would marry her I'm sure and there's Captain Dobbin who , I think , would only I hate all army men . 
Such a dandy as George has become . 
With his military airs , indeed ! We must show some folks that we're as good as they . 
Only give Edward Dale any encouragement , and you'll see . 
He seized her in his arms , and said with a hasty voice , We're ruined , Mary . 
We've got the world to begin over again , dear . 
It's best that you should know all , and at once . 
As he spoke , he trembled in every limb , and almost fell . 
He thought the news would have overpowered his wife his wife , to whom he had never said a hard word . 
But it was he that was the most moved , sudden as the shock was to her . 
When he sank back into his seat , it was the wife that took the office of consoler . 
My God , my God , it will break Emmy's heart , she said . 
The father had forgotten the poor girl . 
She was lying , awake and unhappy , overhead . 
In the midst of friends , home , and kind parents , she was alone . 
She had no confidante , so to speak , ever since she had anything to confide . 
She could not tell the old mother her doubts and cares the would be sisters seemed every day more strange to her . 
And she had misgivings and fears which she dared not acknowledge to herself , though she was always secretly brooding over them . 
Her heart tried to persist in asserting that George Osborne was worthy and faithful to her , though she knew otherwise . 
How many a thing had she said , and got no echo from him . 
How many suspicions of selfishness and indifference had she to encounter and obstinately overcome . 
To whom could the poor little martyr tell these daily struggles and tortures ? Her hero himself only half understood her . 
She did not dare to own that the man she loved was her inferior or to feel that she had given her heart away too soon . 
Given once , the pure bashful maiden was too modest , too tender , too trustful , too weak , too much woman to recall it . 
We are Turks with the affections of our women and have made them subscribe to our doctrine too . 
We let their bodies go abroad liberally enough , with smiles and ringlets and pink bonnets to disguise them instead of veils and yakmaks . 
We are not going to follow the worthy old stockbroker through those last pangs and agonies of ruin through which he passed before his commercial demise befell . 
They declared him at the Stock Exchange he was absent from his house of business his bills were protested his act of bankruptcy formal . 
John Sedley had not the heart to review the domestic establishment who have appeared now and anon in our pages and of whom he was now forced by poverty to take leave . 
Amelia's maid was profuse in condolences , but went off quite resigned to better herself in a genteeler quarter of the town . 
Black Sambo , with the infatuation of his profession , determined on setting up a public house . 
Any one of these circumstances would account for the bitterness of Osborne's opposition . 
To account for your own hard heartedness and ingratitude in such a case , you are bound to prove the other party's crime . 
From a mere sense of consistency , a persecutor is bound to show that the fallen man is a villain otherwise he , the persecutor , is a wretch himself . 
And as a general rule , which may make all creditors who are inclined to be severe pretty comfortable in their minds , no men embarrassed are altogether honest , very likely . 
upon the verge of bankruptcy are ready to lay hold of any pretext for delay or of any money , so as to stave off the inevitable ruin a few days longer . 
Down with such dishonesty , says the creditor in triumph , and reviles his sinking enemy . 
You fool , why do you catch at a straw ? calm good sense says to the man that is drowning . 
You villain , why do you shrink from plunging into the irretrievable Gazette ? says prosperity to the poor devil battling in that black gulf . 
Everybody is right , I suppose , and the world is a rogue . 
Then Osborne had the intolerable sense of former benefits to goad and irritate him these are always a cause of hostility aggravated . 
At the meetings of creditors , then , he comported himself with a savageness and scorn towards Sedley , which almost succeeded in breaking the heart of that ruined bankrupt man . 
One of the great conditions of anger and hatred is , that you must tell and believe lies against the hated object , in order , as we said , to be consistent . 
Amelia took the news very palely and calmly . 
It was only the confirmation of the dark presages which had long gone before . 
It was the mere reading of the sentence of the crime she had long ago been guilty the crime of loving wrongly , too violently , against reason . 
She told no more of her thoughts now than she had before . 
She seemed scarcely more unhappy now when convinced all hope was over , than before when she felt but dared not confess that it was gone . 
So she changed from the large house to the small one without any mark or difference remained in her little room for the most part pined silently and died away day by day . 
I do not mean to say that all females are so . 
My dear Miss Bullock , I do not think your heart would break in this way . 
You are a strong minded young woman with proper principles . 
I do not venture to say that mine would it has suffered , and , it must be confessed , survived . 
But there are some souls thus gently constituted , thus frail , and delicate , and tender . 
Whenever old John Sedley thought of the affair between George and Amelia , or alluded to it , it was with bitterness almost as great as Mr. Osborne himself had shown . 
He cursed Osborne and his family as heartless , wicked , and ungrateful . 
She promised acquiescence , and tried to obey . 
She put up the two or three trinkets and , as for the letters , she drew them out of the place . 
where she kept them and read them over as if she did not know them by heart already but she could not part with them . 
That effort was too much for her she placed them back in her bosom again as you have seen a woman nurse a child that is dead . 
Young Amelia felt that she would die or lose her senses outright , if torn away from this last consolation . 
If they were short or selfish , what excuses she found for the writer ! It was over these few worthless papers that she brooded and brooded . 
She lived in her past life every letter seemed to recall some circumstance of it . 
And the business of her life , was to watch the corpse of Love . 
To death she looked with inexpressible longing . 
Then , she thought , I shall always be able to follow him . 
I am not praising her conduct or setting her up as a model for Miss Bullock to imitate . 
Miss B. knows how to regulate her feelings better than this poor little creature . 
A long engagement is a partnership which one party is free to keep or to break , but which involves all the capital of the other . 
Be cautious then , young ladies be wary how you engage . 
Be shy of loving frankly never tell all you feel , or , feel very little . 
See the consequences of being prematurely honest and confiding , and mistrust yourselves and everybody . 
Get yourselves married as they do in France , where the lawyers are the bridesmaids and confidantes . 
At any rate , never have any feelings which may make you uncomfortable , or make any promises which you cannot at any required moment command and withdraw . 
That is the way to get on , and be respected , and have a virtuous character in Vanity Fair . 
Such criminal imprudence Mrs. Smith never knew of such horrid familiarities Mrs. Brown had always condemned , and the end might be a warning to HER daughters . 
Captain Osborne , of course , could not marry a bankrupt's daughter , the Misses Dobbin said . 
It was quite enough to have been swindled by the father . 
As for that little Amelia , her folly had really passed all All what ? Captain Dobbin roared out . 
We can't fight you , Miss Jane said . 
Hadn't you better , now that Miss Sedley is free , propose for her yourself , William ? Miss Ann asked sarcastically . 
It would be a most eligible family connection . 
He ! he ! I marry her ! Dobbin said , blushing very much , and talking quick . 
If you are so ready , young ladies , to chop and change , do you suppose that she is ? Laugh and sneer at that angel . 
She can't hear it and she's miserable and unfortunate , and deserves to be laughed at . 
Go on joking , Ann . 
You're the wit of the family , and the others like to hear it . 
I must tell you again we're not in a barrack , William , Miss Ann remarked . 
In a barrack , by Jove I wish anybody in a barrack would say what you do , cried out this uproused British lion . 
I should like to hear a man breathe a word against her , by Jupiter . 
But men don't talk in this way , Ann it's only women , who get together and hiss , and shriek , and cackle . 
There , get away don't begin to cry . 
I only said you were a couple of geese , Will Dobbin said , perceiving Miss Ann's pink eyes were beginning to moisten as usual . 
Well , you're not geese , you're swans anything you like , only do , do leave Miss Sedley alone . 
according to their own notions of right and wrong . 
It is a mercy , Mamma , that the regiment is ordered abroad , the girls said . 
THIS danger , at any rate , is spared our brother . 
It was he that ruined the Bourbons and Mr. John Sedley . 
It was he whose arrival in his capital called up all France in arms to defend him there and all Europe to oust him . 
The news of Napoleon's escape and landing was received by the gallant th with a fiery delight and enthusiasm , which everybody can understand who knows that famous corps . 
Stubble and Spooney looked to get their companies without purchase . 
He was not , it must be confessed , very much cast down by good old Mr. Sedley's catastrophe . 
He tried his new uniform , which became him very handsomely , on the day when the first meeting of the creditors of the unfortunate gentleman took place . 
Money was always useful to this free handed young fellow , and he took it without many words . 
The bills were up in the Sedley house , where he had passed so many , many happy hours . 
shining white in the moon . 
That comfortable home was shut , then , upon Amelia and her parents where had they taken refuge ? The thought of their ruin affected him not a little . 
He was very melancholy that night in the coffee room at the Slaughters' and drank a good deal , as his comrades remarked there . 
She she's sent me back some things I gave her some damned trinkets . 
It's all over , said he , with a groan of sickening remorse . 
Look , Will , you may read it if you like . 
I think , I know you feel as much as I do the blow which has come upon us . 
It is I that absolve you from an engagement which is impossible in our present misery . 
I am sure you had no share in it , or in the cruel suspicions of Mr. Osborne , which are the hardest of all our griefs to bear . 
I pray God to strengthen me to bear this and other calamities , and to bless you always . 
A. I shall often play upon the piano your piano . 
It was like you to send it . 
Dobbin was very soft hearted . 
The sight of women and children in pain always used to melt him . 
The idea of Amelia broken hearted and lonely tore that good natured soul with anguish . 
And he broke out into an emotion , which anybody who likes may consider unmanly . 
He swore that Amelia was an angel , to which Osborne said aye with all his heart . 
And for himself , he blushed with remorse and shame , as the remembrance of his own selfishness and indifference contrasted with that perfect purity . 
For a while , glory , war , everything was forgotten , and the pair of friends talked about her only . 
Where are they ? There's no address to the note . 
And I I think I'll go upstairs , Mamma , for I'm not very strong . 
And with this , and a curtsey and a smile , the poor child went her way . 
The mother , as she led her up , cast back looks of anguish towards Dobbin . 
The good fellow wanted no such appeal . 
He loved her himself too fondly for that . 
Inexpressible grief , and pity , and terror pursued him , and he came away as if he was a criminal after seeing her . 
When Osborne heard that his friend had found her , he made hot and anxious inquiries regarding the poor child . 
How was she ? How did she look ? What did she say ? His comrade took his hand , and looked him in the face . 
George , she's dying , William Dobbin said and could speak no more . 
Emmy was much too sad to answer , or even to be aware of the attempts the other was making in her favour . 
Four hours after the talk between Dobbin and Osborne , this servant maid came into Amelia's room , where she sate as usual , brooding silently over her letters her little treasures . 
The girl , smiling , and looking arch and happy , made many trials to attract poor Emmy's attention , who , however , took no heed of her . 
Miss Emmy , said the girl . 
I'm coming , Emmy said , not looking round . 
There's a message , the maid went on . 
There's something somebody sure , here's a new letter for you don't be reading them old ones any more . 
And she gave her a letter , which Emmy took , and read . 
I must see you , the letter said . 
Dearest Emmy dearest love dearest wife , come to me . 
George and her mother were outside , waiting until she had read the letter . 
Who was the blundering idiot who said that fine words butter no parsnips ? Half the parsnips of society are served and rendered palatable with no other sauce . 
Nay , we know that substantial benefits often sicken some stomachs whereas , most will digest any amount of fine words , and be always eager for more of the same food . 
The different conduct of these two people is pointed out respectfully to the attention of persons commencing the world . 
Never lose a chance of saying a kind word . 
As Collingwood never saw a vacant place in his estate but he took an acorn out of his pocket and popped it in so deal with your compliments through life . 
An acorn costs nothing but it may sprout into a prodigious bit of timber . 
In a word , during Rawdon Crawley's prosperity , he was only obeyed with sulky acquiescence when his disgrace came , there was nobody to help or pity him . 
That he would consider himself beaten , after one defeat , and make no attempt to regain the position he had lost , Mrs. Bute Crawley never allowed herself to suppose . 
Mrs. Bute could not disguise from herself the fact that none of her party could so contribute to the pleasures of the town bred lady . 
My girls' singing , after that little odious governess's , I know is unbearable , the candid Rector's wife owned to herself . 
She always used to go to sleep when Martha and Louisa played their duets . 
Jim's stiff college manners and poor dear Bute's talk about his dogs and horses always annoyed her . 
She had the street laid knee deep with straw and the knocker put by with Mr. Bowls's plate . 
She insisted that the Doctor should call twice a day and deluged her patient with draughts every two hours . 
as she moved about the room on velvet paws like a cat . 
public into a sermon , when it is only a comedy that the reader pays his money to witness . 
Recollection of the best ordained banquets will scarcely cheer sick epicures . 
Reminiscences of the most becoming dresses and brilliant ball triumphs will go very little way to console faded beauties . 
morrow is in view , about which all of us must some day or other be speculating . 
She had all the particulars of that ugly quarrel with Captain Marker , in which Rawdon , wrong from the beginning , ended in shooting the Captain . 
Yes , if a man's character is to be abused , say what you will , there's nobody like a relation to do the business . 
Rebecca , too , being now a relative , came in for the fullest share of Mrs. Bute's kind inquiries . 
The friend of the Lexicographer had plenty of information to give . 
Miss Jemima was made to fetch the drawing master's receipts and letters . 
There were juvenile letters and petitions from Rebecca , too , in the collection , imploring aid for her father or declaring her own gratitude . 
Perhaps in Vanity Fair there are no better satires than letters . 
Take a bundle of your dear friend's of ten years back your dear friend whom you hate now . 
after a certain brief and proper interval . 
Those quacks and misanthropes who advertise indelible Japan ink should be made to perish along with their wicked discoveries . 
Of all these industrious researches Miss Crawley had the full benefit . 
Mrs. Rawdon Crawley was the daughter of an opera girl . 
She had been a model to the painters . 
She was brought up as became her mother's daughter . 
She drank gin with her father , c . 
She pointed out her sacrifices and their results one day to the constant apothecary , Mr. Clump . 
I never shrink from personal discomfort I never refuse to sacrifice myself . 
, but I will never quit it . 
Ah , Mr. Clump ! I fear , I know , that the couch needs spiritual as well as medical consolation . 
I would lay down my life for my duty , or for any member of my husband's family , Mrs. Bute interposed . 
Yes , Madam , if need were but we don't want Mrs Bute Crawley to be a martyr , Clump said gallantly . 
Dr Squills and myself have both considered Miss Crawley's case with every anxiety and care , as you may suppose . 
We see her low spirited and nervous family events have agitated her . 
Her nephew will come to perdition , Mrs. Crawley cried . 
Have agitated her and you arrived like a guardian angel , my dear Madam , a positive guardian angel , I assure you , to soothe her under the pressure of calamity . 
Squills and I were thinking that our amiable friend is not in such a state as renders confinement to her bed necessary . 
She is depressed , but this confinement perhaps adds to her depression . 
She should have change , fresh air , gaiety the most delightful remedies in the pharmacopoeia , Mr. Clump said , grinning and showing his handsome teeth . 
Persuade her to rise , dear Madam drag her from her couch and her low spirits insist upon her taking little drives . 
They will restore the roses too to your cheeks , if I may so speak to Mrs. Bute Crawley . 
, would cause her such a shock , that we should have to bring her back to bed again . 
She must not go out , Mr. Clump . 
She shall not go out as long as I remain to watch over her And as for my health , what matters it ? I give it cheerfully , sir . 
I sacrifice it at the altar of my duty . 
Upon my word , Madam , Mr. Clump now said bluntly , I won't answer for her life if she remains locked up in that dark room . 
Gracious mercy ! is her life in danger ? Mrs. Bute cried . 
Why , why , Mr. Clump , did you not inform me sooner ? The night before , Mr. Clump and Dr . 
, regarding Miss Crawley and her case . 
What a little harpy that woman from Hampshire is , Clump , Squills remarked , that has seized upon old Tilly Crawley . 
What a fool Rawdon Crawley has been , Clump replied , to go and marry a governess ! There was something about the girl , too . 
Green eyes , fair skin , pretty figure , famous frontal development , Squills remarked . 
There is something about her and Crawley was a fool , Squills . 
A d fool always was , the apothecary replied . 
Of course the old girl will fling him over , said the physician , and after a pause added , She'll cut up well , I suppose . 
Cut up , says Clump with a grin I wouldn't have her cut up for two hundred a year . 
That Hampshire woman will kill her in two months , Clump , my boy , if she stops about her , Dr . 
Old woman full feeder nervous subject palpitation of the heart pressure on the brain apoplexy off she goes . 
Get her up , Clump get her out or I wouldn't give many weeks' purchase for your two hundred a year . 
And it was acting upon this hint that the worthy apothecary spoke with so much candour to Mrs. Bute Crawley . 
Having the old lady under her hand in bed with nobody near , Mrs. Bute had made more than one assault upon her , to induce her to alter her will . 
Whither to take her was the next puzzle . 
The only place where she is not likely to meet those odious Rawdons is at church , and that won't amuse her , Mrs. Bute justly felt . 
We must go and visit our beautiful suburbs of London , she then thought . 
Perhaps Mrs. Bute pulled the string unnecessarily tight . 
After a brief space , she rebelled against Highgate and Hornsey utterly . 
She would go into the Park . 
Mrs. Bute knew they would meet the abominable Rawdon there , and she was right . 
One day in the ring , Rawdon's stanhope came in sight Rebecca was seated by him . 
In the enemy's equipage Miss Crawley occupied her usual place , with Mrs. Bute on her left , the poodle and Miss Briggs on the back seat . 
Rawdon himself trembled , and his face grew purple behind his dyed mustachios . 
Only old Briggs was moved in the other carriage , and cast her great eyes nervously towards her old friends . 
Miss Crawley's bonnet was resolutely turned towards the Serpentine . 
Mrs. Bute happened to be in ecstasies with the poodle , and was calling him a little darling , and a sweet little zoggy , and a pretty pet . 
The carriages moved on , each in his line . 
Done , by Jove , Rawdon said to his wife . 
Try once more , Rawdon , Rebecca answered . 
Could not you lock your wheels into theirs , dearest ? Rawdon had not the heart for that manoeuvre . 
When the carriages met again , he stood up in his stanhope he raised his hand ready to doff his hat he looked with all his eyes . 
But this time Miss Crawley's face was not turned away she and Mrs. Bute looked him full in the face , and cut their nephew pitilessly . 
He sank back in his seat with an oath , and striking out of the ring , dashed away desperately homewards . 
It was a gallant and decided triumph for Mrs. Bute . 
of his young mistress by the intervention of his friend honest William . 
This prostration and sweet unrepining obedience exquisitely touched and flattered George Osborne . 
He saw a slave before him in that simple yielding faithful creature , and his soul within him thrilled secretly somehow at the knowledge of his power . 
All her hopes and feelings , which were dying and withering , this her sun having been removed from her , bloomed again and at once , its light being restored . 
The honest Irish maid servant , delighted with the change , asked leave to kiss the face that had grown all of a sudden so rosy . 
Amelia put her arms round the girl's neck and kissed her with all her heart , like a child . 
He is the greatest and best of men . 
And the fact is , that George thought he was one of the generousest creatures alive and that he was making a tremendous sacrifice in marrying this young creature . 
The fiendish ingratitude of that man , she was sure , had broken Mr. S. 's heart and as for a marriage , he would never , never , never , never consent . 
They must run away together , Ma'am , Dobbin said , laughing , and follow the example of Captain Rawdon Crawley , and Miss Emmy's friend the little governess . 
Was it possible ? Well she never ! Mrs. Sedley was all excitement about this news . 
She wished that Blenkinsop were here to hear it Blenkinsop always mistrusted that Miss Sharp . 
What an escape Jos had had ! and she described the already well known love passages between Rebecca and the Collector of Boggley Wollah . 
He has forbidden the match peremptorily , Dobbin thought . 
He knew what a savage determined man Osborne was , and how he stuck by his word . 
The only chance George has of reconcilement , argued his friend , is by distinguishing himself in the coming campaign . 
If he dies they both go together . 
It was these weighty considerations which made him think too that the marriage should take place as quickly as possible . 
Was he anxious himself , I wonder , to have it over . 
? as people , when death has occurred , like to press forward the funeral , or when a parting is resolved upon , hasten it . 
It is certain that Mr. Dobbin , having taken the matter in hand , was most extraordinarily eager in the conduct of it . 
He urged on George the necessity of immediate action he showed the chances of reconciliation with his father , which a favourable mention of his name in the Gazette must bring about . 
If need were he would go himself and brave both the fathers in the business . 
At all events , he besought George to go through with it before the orders came , which everybody expected , for the departure of the regiment from England on foreign service . 
My beloved reader has no doubt in the course of his experience been waylaid by many such a luckless companion . 
His coat , that used to be so glossy and trim , was white at the seams , and the buttons showed the copper . 
His face had fallen in , and was unshorn his frill and neckcloth hung limp under his bagging waistcoat . 
What can we do for you . 
How is Mrs. Sedley , sir ? I hope she's quite well . 
My wife will be very happy to see her ladyship , Sedley replied , pulling out his papers . 
I've a very kind letter here from your father , sir , and beg my respectful compliments to him . 
The old gentleman's eyes were wandering as he spoke , and he was thinking of something else , as he sate thrumming on his papers and fumbling at the worn red tape . 
That's why I'm here , William . 
That's why my name's in the Gazette . 
Why , sir ? because I trusted the Emperor of Russia and the Prince Regent . 
Look what the funds were on the st of March what the French fives were when I bought for the count . 
And what they're at now . 
There was collusion , sir , or that villain never would have escaped . 
Where was the English Commissioner who allowed him to get away ? He ought to be shot , sir brought to a court martial , and shot , by Jove . 
We are going to hunt him out , sir the Duke's in Belgium already , and we expect marching orders every day . 
Bring back the villain's head , sir . 
Shoot the coward down , sir , Sedley roared . 
Dobbin was not a little affected by the sight of this once kind old friend , crazed almost with misfortune and raving with senile anger . 
Pity the fallen gentleman you to whom money and fair repute are the chiefest good and so , surely , are they in Vanity Fair . 
Yes , he continued , there are some vipers that you warm , and they sting you afterwards . 
There are some beggars that you put on horseback , and they're the first to ride you down . 
You know whom I mean , William Dobbin , my boy . 
I have heard something of this , sir , from my friend George , Dobbin said , anxious to come to his point . 
The quarrel between you and his father has cut him up a great deal , sir . 
Indeed , I'm the bearer of a message from him . 
O , THAT'S your errand , is it ? cried the old man , jumping up . 
What ! perhaps he condoles with me , does he ? Very kind of him , the stiff backed prig , with his dandified airs and West End swagger . 
He's hankering about my house , is he still ? If my son had the courage of a man , he'd shoot him . 
He's as big a villain as his father . 
I won't have his name mentioned in my house . 
I curse the day that ever I let him into it and I'd rather see my daughter dead at my feet than married to him . 
His father's harshness is not George's fault , sir . 
Your daughter's love for him is as much your doing as his . 
It's I that forbid it . 
That family and mine are separated for ever . 
I'm fallen low , but not so low as that no , no . 
And so you may tell the whole race son , and father and sisters , and all . 
There's no reason she should die or live miserably because you are wrong headed . 
To my thinking , she's just as much married as if the banns had been read in all the churches in London . 
It evidently amused the old gentleman . 
The idea of hitting his enemy Osborne such a blow soothed , perhaps , the old gentleman and , their colloquy presently ending , he and Dobbin parted pretty good friends . 
My sisters say she has diamonds as big as pigeons' eggs , George said , laughing . 
How they must set off her complexion ! A perfect illumination it must be when her jewels are on her neck . 
Her jet black hair is as curly as Sambo's . 
I dare say she wore a nose ring when she went to court and with a plume of feathers in her top knot she would look a perfect Belle Sauvage . 
She had a mansion in Surrey , and a house in Portland Place . 
The name of the rich West India heiress had been mentioned with applause in the Morning Post . 
Mrs. Haggistoun , Colonel Haggistoun's widow , her relative , chaperoned her , and kept her house . 
, and the girls had made the most cordial advances to her , which the heiress had received with great good humour . 
An orphan in her position with her money so interesting ! the Misses Osborne said . 
The girls Christian named each other at once . 
You should have seen her dress for court , Emmy , Osborne cried , laughing . 
She came to my sisters to show it off , before she was presented in state by my Lady Binkie , the Haggistoun's kinswoman . 
She's related to every one , that Haggistoun . 
Her diamonds blazed out like Vauxhall on the night we were there . 
Diamonds and mahogany , my dear ! think what an advantageous contrast and the white feathers in her hair I mean in her wool . 
She had earrings like chandeliers you might have lighted 'em up , by Jove and a yellow satin train that streeled after her like the tail of a cornet . 
Why the Black Princess , though she has only just left school , must be two or three and twenty . 
Her father was a German Jew a slave owner they say connected with the Cannibal Islands in some way or other . 
He died last year , and Miss Pinkerton has finished her education . 
I wish they would have loved me , said Emmy , wistfully . 
They were always very cold to me . 
My dear child , they would have loved you if you had had two hundred thousand pounds , George replied . 
That is the way in which they have been brought up . 
Ours is a ready money society . 
We live among bankers and City big wigs , and be hanged to them , and every man , as he talks to you , is jingling his guineas in his pocket . 
Curse the whole pack of money grubbing vulgarians ! I fall asleep at their great heavy dinners . 
I feel ashamed in my father's great stupid parties . 
I've been accustomed to live with gentlemen , and men of the world and fashion , Emmy , not with a parcel of turtle fed tradesmen . 
You are the only lady . 
Amelia admired Mr. Crawley very much , too , for this and trusted Rebecca would be happy with him , and hoped Jos would be consoled . 
And so the pair went on prattling , as in quite early days . 
Beyond the first smile of recognition and even that was an hypocrisy , for she thought his arrival rather provoking Miss Sedley did not once notice Dobbin during his visit . 
But he was content , so that he saw her happy and thankful to have been the means of making her so . 
I'm a plain , simple , humble British merchant an honest one , as my respected friends Hulker and Bullock will vouch , who were the correspondents of your late lamented father . 
I'm a frank man , and I like you . 
A glass of Champagne ! Hicks , Champagne to Miss Swartz . 
There is little doubt that old Osborne believed all he said , and that the girls were quite earnest in their protestations of affection for Miss Swartz . 
People in Vanity Fair fasten on to rich folks quite naturally . 
if the simple look benevolently on money , how much more do your old worldlings regard it ! Their affections rush out to meet and welcome money . 
Their kind sentiments awaken spontaneously towards the interesting possessors of it . 
I know some respectable people who don't consider themselves at liberty to indulge in friendship for any individual who has not a certain competency , or place in society . 
They give a loose to their feelings on proper occasions . 
Old Osborne thought she would be a great match , too , for his son . 
He should leave the army he should go into Parliament he should cut a figure in the fashion and in the state . 
He worked in the City and on 'Change , until he knew everything relating to the fortune of the heiress , how her money was placed , and where her estates lay . 
, only he was booked to Maria Osborne . 
But not being able to secure her as a wife , the disinterested Fred quite approved of her as a sister in law . 
Let George cut in directly and win her , was his advice . 
When the elder Osborne gave what he called a hint , there was no possibility for the most obtuse to mistake his meaning . 
He called kicking a footman downstairs a hint to the latter to leave his service . 
This imperative hint disturbed George a good deal . 
He was in the very first enthusiasm and delight of his second courtship of Amelia , which was inexpressibly sweet to him . 
The contrast of her manners and appearance with those of the heiress , made the idea of a union with the latter appear doubly ludicrous and odious . 
On the first day when his father formally gave him the hint that he was to place his affections at Miss Swartz's feet , George temporised with the old gentleman . 
You should have thought of the matter sooner , sir , he said . 
It can't be done now , when we're expecting every day to go on foreign service . 
So that you would have me shown up as a coward , sir , and our name dishonoured for the sake of Miss Swartz's money , George interposed . 
If you want for money , call upon Mr. Chopper . 
Thus a new obstacle was in George's way , to interfere with his plans regarding Amelia and about which he and Dobbin had more than one confidential consultation . 
His friend's opinion respecting the line of conduct which he ought to pursue , we know already . 
And as for Osborne , when he was once bent on a thing , a fresh obstacle or two only rendered him the more resolute . 
His whiskers had made an impression upon her , on the very first night she beheld them at the ball at Messrs . 
Hulkers and , as we know , she was not the first woman who had been charmed by them . 
George had an air at once swaggering and melancholy , languid and fierce . 
He looked like a man who had passions , secrets , and private harrowing griefs and adventures . 
His voice was rich and deep . 
He trampled over all the young bucks of his father's circle , and was the hero among those third rate men . 
Some few sneered at him and hated him . 
Some , like Dobbin , fanatically admired him . 
And his whiskers had begun to do their work , and to curl themselves round the affections of Miss Swartz . 
Whenever there was a chance of meeting him in Russell Square , that simple and good natured young woman was quite in a flurry to see her dear Misses Osborne . 
She went to great expenses in new gowns , and bracelets , and bonnets , and in prodigious feathers . 
She adorned her person with her utmost skill to please the Conqueror , and exhibited all her simple accomplishments to win his favour . 
During these delectable entertainments , Miss Wirt and the chaperon sate by , and conned over the peerage , and talked about the nobility . 
The girls , after vain attempts to engage him in conversation , talked about fashions and the last drawing room until he was perfectly sick of their chatter . 
He contrasted their behaviour with little Emmy's their shrill voices with her tender ringing tones their attitudes and their elbows and their starch , with her humble soft movements and modest graces . 
Poor Swartz was seated in a place where Emmy had been accustomed to sit . 
Her bejewelled hands lay sprawling in her amber satin lap . 
Her tags and ear rings twinkled , and her big eyes rolled about . 
She was doing nothing with perfect contentment , and thinking herself charming . 
Anything so becoming as the satin the sisters had never seen . 
Dammy , George said to a confidential friend , she looked like a China doll , which has nothing to do all day but to grin and wag its head . 
By Jove , Will , it was all I I could do to prevent myself from throwing the sofa cushion at her . 
He restrained that exhibition of sentiment , however . 
The sisters began to play the Battle of Prague . 
Stop that d thing , George howled out in a fury from the sofa . 
You play us something , Miss Swartz , do . 
Sing something , anything but the Battle of Prague . 
Shall I sing 'Blue Eyed Mary' or the air from the Cabinet ? Miss Swartz asked . 
That sweet thing from the Cabinet , the sisters said . 
We've had that , replied the misanthrope on the sofa I can sing 'Fluvy du Tajy , Swartz said , in a meek voice , if I had the words . 
It was the last of the worthy young woman's collection . 
O , 'Fleuve du Tage , Miss Maria cried we have the song , and went off to fetch the book in which it was . 
Lor ! cried Miss Swartz , spinning swiftly round on the music stool , is it my Amelia ? Amelia that was at Miss P. 's at Hammersmith ? I know it is . 
and Tell me about her where is she ? Don't mention her , Miss Maria Osborne said hastily . 
Her family has disgraced itself . 
Her father cheated Papa , and as for her , she is never to be mentioned HERE . 
This was Miss Maria's return for George's rudeness about the Battle of Prague . 
Are you a friend of Amelia's ? George said , bouncing up . 
God bless you for it , Miss Swartz . 
Don't believe what , the girls say . 
SHE'S not to blame at any rate . 
She's the best You know you're not to speak about her , George , cried Jane . 
Who's to prevent me ? George cried out . 
I will speak of her . 
If you like her , go and see her , Miss Swartz she wants friends now and I say , God bless everybody who befriends her . 
Anybody who speaks kindly of her is my friend anybody who speaks against her is my enemy . 
Thank you , Miss Swartz and he went up and wrung her hand . 
George ! George ! one of the sisters cried imploringly . 
I say , George said fiercely , I thank everybody who loves Amelia Sed He stopped . 
Old Osborne was in the room with a face livid with rage , and eyes like hot coals . 
He felt that the tussle was coming . 
Mrs. Haggistoun , let me take you down to dinner , he said . 
Give your arm to Miss Swartz , George , and they marched . 
Old Osborne , on the contrary , was nervous , and drank much . 
He floundered in his conversation with the ladies , his neighbours George's coolness only rendering him more angry . 
The old man also took a supply of ammunition , but his decanter clinked against the glass as he tried to fill it . 
After giving a great heave , and with a purple choking face , he then began . 
Dare isn't a word to be used to a Captain in the British Army . 
I shall say what I like to my son , sir . 
I can cut him off with a shilling if I like . 
I can make him a beggar if I like . 
I WILL say what I like , the elder said . 
I'm a gentleman though I AM your son , sir , George answered haughtily . 
Whenever the lad assumed his haughty manner , it always created either great awe or great irritation in the parent . 
My father didn't give me the education you have had , nor the advantages you have had , nor the money you have had . 
But it wasn't considered the part of a gentleman , in MY time , for a man to insult his father . 
If I'd done any such thing , mine would have kicked me downstairs , sir . 
I never insulted you , sir . 
I said I begged you to remember your son was a gentleman as well as yourself . 
You tell it me often enough , sir . 
There's no fear of my forgetting it . 
I wish you'd remember other things as well , sir , the sire answered . 
! burst out his father with a screaming oath that the name of those Sedleys never be mentioned here , sir not one of the whole damned lot of 'em , sir . 
It wasn't I , sir , that introduced Miss Sedley's name . 
It was my sisters who spoke ill of her to Miss Swartz and by Jove I'll defend her wherever I go . 
Nobody shall speak lightly of that name in my presence . 
Our family has done her quite enough injury already , I think , and may leave off reviling her now she's down . 
I'll shoot any man but you who says a word against her . 
Go on , sir , go on , the old gentleman said , his eyes starting out of his head . 
Go on about what , sir ? about the way in which we've treated that angel of a girl ? Who told me to love her ? It was your doing . 
I might have chosen elsewhere , and looked higher , perhaps , than your society but I obeyed you . 
And now that her heart's mine you give me orders to fling it away , and punish her , kill her perhaps for the faults of other people . 
There shall be no beggar marriages in my family . 
Will you do as I tell you , once for all , sir , or will you not ? Marry that mulatto woman ? George said , pulling up his shirt collars . 
I don't like the colour , sir . 
Ask the black that sweeps opposite Fleet Market , sir . 
I'm not going to marry a Hottentot Venus . 
I've done it , said George , coming into the Slaughters' an hour afterwards , looking very pale . 
What , my boy ? says Dobbin . 
George told what had passed between his father and himself . 
I'll marry her to morrow , he said with an oath . 
I love her more every day , Dobbin . 
No communication passed between father and son for some days . 
His cover was laid as usual every day , and perhaps the old gentleman rather anxiously expected him but he never came . 
Some one inquired at the Slaughters' regarding him , where it was said that he and his friend Captain Dobbin had left town . 
Here was his friend Captain Dobbin , in blue and brass too , having abandoned the military frock and French grey trousers , which were the usual coverings of his lanky person . 
Dobbin had been in the coffee room for an hour or more . 
He had tried all the papers , but could not read them . 
he balanced the tea spoon dexterously on the milk jug upset it , c . 
Some of his comrades , gentlemen who used the room , joked him about the splendour of his costume and his agitation of manner . 
a piece of cake when that event took place . 
At length Captain Osborne made his appearance , very smartly dressed , but very pale and agitated as we have said . 
He wiped his pale face with a large yellow bandanna pocket handkerchief that was prodigiously scented . 
He shook hands with Dobbin , looked at the clock , and told John , the waiter , to bring him some curacao . 
Of this cordial he swallowed off a couple of glasses with nervous eagerness . 
His friend asked with some interest about his health . 
Couldn't get a wink of sleep till daylight , Dob , said he . 
Got up at nine , and went down to the Hummums for a bath . 
I say , Dob , I feel just as I did on the morning I went out with Rocket at Quebec . 
So do I , William responded . 
I was a deuced deal more nervous than you were that morning . 
You made a famous breakfast , I remember . 
You're a good old fellow , Will . 
I'll drink your health , old boy , and farewell to No , no two glasses are enough , Dobbin interrupted him . 
Here , take away the liqueurs , John . 
Have some cayenne pepper with your fowl . 
Make haste though , for it is time we were there . 
It was about half an hour from twelve when this brief meeting and colloquy took place between the two captains . 
We shall find a better trap than this at the church door , says he that's a comfort . 
And the carriage drove on , taking the road down Piccadilly , where Apsley House and St . 
A chariot was in waiting with four horses likewise a coach of the kind called glass coaches . 
Only a very few idlers were collected on account of the dismal rain . 
Hang it ! said George , I said only a pair . 
Here you are , said our old friend , Jos Sedley , coming forward . 
You're five minutes late , George , my boy . 
What a day , eh ? Demmy , it's like the commencement of the rainy season in Bengal . 
But you'll find my carriage is watertight . 
Come along , my mother and Emmy are in the vestry . 
He was fatter than ever . 
His shirt collars were higher his face was redder his shirt frill flaunted gorgeously out of his variegated waistcoat . 
In a word , George had thrown the great cast . 
He was going to be married . 
Hence his pallor and nervousness his sleepless night and agitation in the morning . 
I have heard people who have gone through the same thing own to the same emotion . 
After three or four ceremonies , you get accustomed to it , no doubt but the first dip , everybody allows , is awful . 
, and wore a straw bonnet with a pink ribbon over the bonnet she had a veil of white Chantilly lace , a gift from Mr. Joseph Sedley , her brother . 
As the service went on , Mrs. Sedley sat and whimpered a great deal in a pew , consoled by the Irish maid servant and Mrs. Clapp from the lodgings . 
Old Sedley would not be present . 
Jos acted for his father , giving away the bride , whilst Captain Dobbin stepped up as groomsman to his friend George . 
There was nobody in the church besides the officiating persons and the small marriage party and their attendants . 
The two valets sat aloof superciliously . 
The rain came rattling down on the windows . 
In the intervals of the service you heard it , and the sobbing of old Mrs. Sedley in the pew . 
The parson's tones echoed sadly through the empty walls . 
Osborne's I will was sounded in very deep bass . 
Emmy's response came fluttering up to her lips from her heart , but was scarcely heard by anybody except Captain Dobbin . 
It's your turn , William , says he , putting his hand fondly upon Dobbin's shoulder and Dobbin went up and touched Amelia on the cheek . 
Then they went into the vestry and signed the register . 
God bless you , Old Dobbin , George said , grasping him by the hand , with something very like moisture glistening in his eyes . 
William replied only by nodding his head . 
His heart was too full to say much . 
Write directly , and come down as soon as you can , you know , Osborne said . 
After Mrs. Sedley had taken an hysterical adieu of her daughter , the pair went off to the carriage . 
Get out of the way , you little devils , George cried to a small crowd of damp urchins , that were hanging about the chapel door . 
The rain drove into the bride and bridegroom's faces as they passed to the chariot . 
The postilions' favours draggled on their dripping jackets . 
The few children made a dismal cheer , as the carriage , splashing mud , drove away . 
William Dobbin stood in the church porch , looking at it , a queer figure . 
The small crew of spectators jeered him . 
He was not thinking about them or their laughter . 
Come home and have some tiffin , Dobbin , a voice cried behind him as a pudgy hand was laid on his shoulder , and the honest fellow's reverie was interrupted . 
But the Captain had no heart to go a feasting with Jos Sedley . 
He put the weeping old lady and her attendants into the carriage along with Jos , and left them without any farther words passing . 
This carriage , too , drove away , and the urchins gave another sarcastical cheer . 
Here , you little beggars , Dobbin said , giving some sixpences amongst them , and then went off by himself through the rain . 
They were married , and happy , he prayed God . 
Never since he was a boy had he felt so miserable and so lonely . 
He longed with a heart sick yearning for the first few days to be over , that he might see her again . 
Jos was even more splendid at Brighton than he had been at his sister's marriage . 
He had brilliant under waistcoats , any one of which would have set up a moderate buck . 
He sported a military frock coat , ornamented with frogs , knobs , black buttons , and meandering embroidery . 
What shall we do , boys , till the ladies return ? the buck asked . 
The ladies were out to Rottingdean in his carriage on a drive . 
Let's have a game at billiards , one of his friends said the tall one , with lacquered mustachios . 
No , dammy no , Captain , Jos replied , rather alarmed . 
No billiards to day , Crawley , my boy yesterday was enough . 
You play very well , said Crawley , laughing . 
Don't he , Osborne ? How well he made that five stroke , eh ? Famous , Osborne said . 
Jos is a devil of a fellow at billiards , and at everything else , too . 
I wish there were any tiger hunting about here ! we might go and kill a few before dinner . 
Tell us that story about the tiger hunt , and the way you did for him in the jungle it's a wonderful story that , Crawley . 
Here George Osborne gave a yawn . 
It's rather slow work , said he , down here what shall we do ? Shall we go and look at some horses that Snaffler's just brought from Lewes fair ? Crawley said . 
Suppose we go and have some jellies at Dutton's , and the rogue Jos , willing to kill two birds with one stone . 
Devilish fine gal at Dutton's . 
Suppose we go and see the Lightning come in , it's just about time ? George said . 
This advice prevailing over the stables and the jelly , they turned towards the coach office to witness the Lightning's arrival . 
She checked the carriage as it neared the three gentlemen , after which exercise of authority she looked rather nervous , and then began to blush most absurdly . 
We have had a delightful drive , George , she said , and and we're so glad to come back and , Joseph , don't let him be late . 
fumbling in his shirt frill and among his under waistcoats . 
As the carriage drove off he kissed the diamond hand to the fair ladies within . 
Nor was he the only companion they found there . 
As they were coming into the hotel from a sea side walk one afternoon , on whom should they light but Rebecca and her husband . 
Rebecca flew into the arms of her dearest friend . 
Do you remember the last time we met at Miss Crawley's , when I was so rude to you , dear Captain Osborne ? I thought you seemed careless about dear Amelia . 
It was that made me angry and so pert and so unkind and so ungrateful . 
Do forgive me ! Rebecca said , and she held out her hand with so frank and winning a grace , that Osborne could not but take it . 
By humbly and frankly acknowledging yourself to be in the wrong , there is no knowing , my son , what good you may do . 
Becky's humility passed for sincerity with George Osborne . 
These two young couples had plenty of tales to relate to each other . 
The marriages of either were discussed and their prospects in life canvassed with the greatest frankness and interest on both sides . 
George's marriage was to be made known to his father by his friend Captain Dobbin and young Osborne trembled rather for the result of that communication . 
Miss Crawley , on whom all Rawdon's hopes depended , still held out . 
Unable to make an entry into her house in Park Lane , her affectionate nephew and niece had followed her to Brighton , where they had emissaries continually planted at her door . 
I wish you could see some of Rawdon's friends who are always about our door , Rebecca said , laughing . 
If Aunty does not relent , what shall we do ? Rawdon , with roars of laughter , related a dozen amusing anecdotes of his duns , and Rebecca's adroit treatment of them . 
He vowed with a great oath that there was no woman in Europe who could talk a creditor over as she could . 
Almost immediately after their marriage , her practice had begun , and her husband found the immense value of such a wife . 
They had credit in plenty , but they had bills also in abundance , and laboured under a scarcity of ready money . 
Long custom , a manly appearance , faultless boots and clothes , and a happy fierceness of manner , will often help a man as much as a great balance at the banker's . 
The two wedding parties met constantly in each other's apartments . 
After two or three nights the gentlemen of an evening had a little piquet , as their wives sate and chatted apart . 
So the three gentlemen walked down to see the Lightning coach come in . 
Hullo ! there's old Dobbin , George cried , quite delighted to see his old friend perched on the roof and whose promised visit to Brighton had been delayed until now . 
How are you , old fellow ? Glad you're come down . 
Dobbin looked very pale and grave . 
I've seen your father , said he . 
How's Amelia Mrs. George ? I'll tell you all the news presently but I've brought the great news of all and that is Out with it , old fellow , George said . 
All the army goes guards and all . 
Heavytop's got the gout , and is mad at not being able to move . 
O'Dowd goes in command , and we embark from Chatham next week . 
This news of war could not but come with a shock upon our lovers , and caused all these gentlemen to look very serious . 
They can't be angry in their hearts , thought he . 
No woman ever was really angry at a romantic marriage . 
A little crying out , and they must come round to their brother when the three of us will lay siege to old Mr. Osborne . 
So this Machiavellian captain of infantry cast about him for some happy means or stratagem by which he could gently and gradually bring the Misses Osborne to a knowledge of their brother's secret . 
They were both so silent that the ticktock of the Sacrifice of Iphigenia clock on the mantelpiece became quite rudely audible . 
What a nice party it was last night , Miss Osborne at length began , encouragingly and and how you're improved in your dancing , Captain Dobbin . 
Surely somebody has taught you , she added , with amiable archness . 
Is the Major's lady young and beautiful , Captain ? the fair questioner continued . 
One of our young men is just married , Dobbin said , now coming to the point . 
It was a very old attachment , and the young couple are as poor as church mice . 
O , how delightful ! O , how romantic ! Miss Osborne cried , as the Captain said old attachment and poor . 
The finest young fellow in the regiment , he continued . 
Not a braver or handsomer officer in the army and such a charming wife ! How you would like her ! how you will like her when you know her , Miss Osborne . 
Miss Osborne , I say , thought that when he had given himself a little air , he would unbosom himself entirely , and prepared eagerly to listen . 
I'll bet you five to two she will . 
Yes , about George , then , he continued . 
There has been a difference between him and Mr. Osborne . 
And I regard him so much for you know we have been like brothers that I hope and pray the quarrel may be settled . 
We must go abroad , Miss Osborne . 
We may be ordered off at a day's warning . 
Who knows what may happen in the campaign ? Don't be agitated , dear Miss Osborne and those two at least should part friends . 
There has been no quarrel , Captain Dobbin , except a little usual scene with Papa , the lady said . 
We are expecting George back daily . 
What Papa wanted was only for his good . 
He has but to come back , and I'm sure all will be well and dear Rhoda , who went away from here in sad sad anger , I know will forgive him . 
Woman forgives but too readily , Captain . 
Such an angel as YOU I am sure would , Mr. Dobbin said , with atrocious astuteness . 
And no man can pardon himself for giving a woman pain . 
What would you feel , if a man were faithless to you ? I should perish I should throw myself out of window I should take poison I should pine and die . 
I know I should , Miss cried , who had nevertheless gone through one or two affairs of the heart without any idea of suicide . 
And there are others , Dobbin continued , as true and as kind hearted as yourself . 
I've seen her in her poverty uncomplaining , broken hearted , without a fault . 
It is of Miss Sedley I speak . 
It is of no use , however , she continued , after a pause I feel for poor Miss Sedley , most certainly most sincerely , you know . 
We never thought the match a good one , though we were always very kind to her here very . 
But Papa will never consent , I am sure . 
And a well brought up young woman , you know with a well regulated mind , must George must give her up , dear Captain Dobbin , indeed he must . 
Ought a man to give up the woman he loved , just when misfortune befell her ? Dobbin said , holding out his hand . 
Dear Miss Osborne , is this the counsel I hear from you ? My dear young lady ! you must befriend her . 
He can't give her up . 
He must not give her up . 
Would a man , think you , give YOU up if you were poor ? This adroit question touched the heart of Miss Jane Osborne not a little . 
I don't know whether we poor girls ought to believe what you men say , Captain , she said . 
There is that in woman's tenderness which induces her to believe too easily . 
I'm afraid you are cruel , cruel deceivers , and Dobbin certainly thought he felt a pressure of the hand which Miss Osborne had extended to him . 
He dropped it in some alarm . 
No , dear Miss Osborne , all men are not your brother is not George has loved Amelia Sedley ever since they were children no wealth would make him marry any but her . 
At length when , by the help of farther polite speeches , he deemed that Miss Osborne was sufficiently prepared to receive the whole news , he poured it into her ear . 
He was scarcely out of the house , when Miss Maria and Miss Wirt rushed in to Miss Osborne , and the whole wonderful secret was imparted to them by that lady . 
To do them justice , neither of the sisters was very much displeased . 
It must be Papa , they thought . 
But it was not he . 
It was only Mr. Frederick Bullock , who had come from the City according to appointment , to conduct the ladies to a flower show . 
This gentleman , as may be imagined , was not kept long in ignorance of the secret . 
But his face , when he heard it , showed an amazement which was very different to that look of sentimental wonder which the countenances of the sisters wore . 
Mr. Bullock was a man of the world , and a junior partner of a wealthy firm . 
Gad ! Jane , said he , surveying even the elder sister with some interest , Eels will be sorry he cried off . 
You may be a fifty thousand pounder yet . 
And do not let my respected reader exclaim against this selfishness as unnatural . 
To these three presently came another little one . 
POLLY , says she , YOUR SISTER'S GOT A PENNY . 
At which the children got up from the puddle instantly , and ran off to pay their court to Peggy . 
And as the omnibus drove off I saw Peggy with the infantine procession at her tail , marching with great dignity towards the stall of a neighbouring lollipop woman . 
Mr. Chopper winked and nodded and pointed his pen towards his patron's door , and said , You'll find the governor all right , with the most provoking good humour . 
Osborne rose too , and shook him heartily by the hand , and said , How do , my dear boy ? with a cordiality that made poor George's ambassador feel doubly guilty . 
His hand lay as if dead in the old gentleman's grasp . 
He felt that he , Dobbin , was more or less the cause of all that had happened . 
The envoy had indeed good reason to hang his head . 
Osborne fully believed that Dobbin had come to announce his son's surrender . 
Mr. Chopper and his principal were talking over the matter between George and his father , at the very moment when Dobbin's messenger arrived . 
Both agreed that George was sending in his submission . 
With similar operations conducted in both pockets , and a knowing jolly air , Osborne from his chair regarded Dobbin seated blank and silent opposite to him . 
What a bumpkin he is for a Captain in the army , old Osborne thought . 
I wonder George hasn't taught him better manners . 
At last Dobbin summoned courage to begin . 
Sir , said he , I've brought you some very grave news . 
I have been at the Horse Guards this morning , and there's no doubt that our regiment will be ordered abroad , and on its way to Belgium before the week is over . 
And you know , sir , that we shan't be home again before a tussle which may be fatal to many of us . 
My s , the regiment will do its duty , sir , I daresay , he said . 
The French are very strong , sir , Dobbin went on . 
The Russians and Austrians will be a long time before they can bring their troops down . 
We shall have the first of the fight , sir and depend on it Boney will take care that it shall be a hard one . 
What are you driving at , Dobbin ? his interlocutor said , uneasy and with a scowl . 
As he said this , poor William Dobbin blushed crimson , and felt and owned that he himself was a traitor . 
But for him , perhaps , this severance need never have taken place . 
Amelia , too , MIGHT have recovered the shock of losing him . 
It was his counsel had brought about this marriage , and all that was to ensue from it . 
You are a good fellow , William , said Mr. Osborne in a softened voice and me and George shouldn't part in anger , that is true . 
I've done for him as much as any father ever did . 
He's had three times as much money from me , as I warrant your father ever gave you . 
But I don't brag about that . 
How I've toiled for him , and worked and employed my talents and energy , I won't say . 
Ask the City of London . 
Well , I propose to him such a marriage as any nobleman in the land might be proud of the only thing in life I ever asked him and he refuses me . 
I say , here's my hand . 
I say , forget and forgive . 
As for marrying now , it's out of the question . 
I'm glad you've brought him round . 
I know it's you , Dobbin . 
You've took him out of many a scrape before . 
Come along , and dine in Russell Square to day both of you . 
The old shop , the old hour . 
You'll find a neck of venison , and no questions asked . 
This praise and confidence smote Dobbin's heart very keenly . 
Every moment the colloquy continued in this tone , he felt more and more guilty . 
Sir , said he , I fear you deceive yourself . 
I am sure you do . 
George is much too high minded a man ever to marry for money . 
A threat on your part that you would disinherit him in case of disobedience would only be followed by resistance on his . 
Why , hang it , man , you don't call offering him eight or ten thousand a year threatening him ? '' Mr. Osborne said , with still provoking good humour . 
'Gad , if Miss S. will have me , I'm her man . 
I ain't particular about a shade or so of tawny . 
And the old gentleman gave his knowing grin and coarse laugh . 
You forget , sir , previous engagements into which Captain Osborne had entered , the ambassador said , gravely . 
My son and heir marry a beggar's girl out of a gutter . 
D him , if he does , let him buy a broom and sweep a crossing . 
She was always dangling and ogling after him , I recollect now and I've no doubt she was put on by her old sharper of a father . 
Mr. Sedley was your very good friend , sir , Dobbin interposed , almost pleased at finding himself growing angry . 
Time was you called him better names than rogue and swindler . 
The match was of your making . 
George had no right to play fast and loose Fast and loose ! howled out old Osborne . 
What , it's you who have been a setting of him up is it ? and my service to you , CAPTAIN . 
It's you who want to introduce beggars into my family . 
Thank you for nothing , Captain . 
Marry HER indeed he , he ! why should he ? I warrant you she'd go to him fast enough without . 
Sir , said Dobbin , starting up in undisguised anger no man shall abuse that lady in my hearing , and you least of all . 
O , you're a going to call me out , are you ? Stop , let me ring the bell for pistols for two . 
Mr. George sent you here to insult his father , did he ? Osborne said , pulling at the bell cord . 
Mr. Osborne , said Dobbin , with a faltering voice , it's you who are insulting the best creature in the world . 
You had best spare her , sir , for she's your son's wife . 
And with this , feeling that he could say no more , Dobbin went away , Osborne sinking back in his chair , and looking wildly after him . 
For God's sake , what is it ? Mr. Chopper said , catching the Captain by the skirt . 
The governor's in a fit . 
What has Mr. George been doing ? He married Miss Sedley five days ago , Dobbin replied . 
I was his groomsman , Mr. Chopper , and you must stand his friend . 
The old clerk shook his head . 
If that's your news , Captain , it's bad . 
The governor will never forgive him . 
Dobbin begged Chopper to report progress to him at the hotel where he was stopping , and walked off moodily westwards , greatly perturbed as to the past and the future . 
The ladies , and Mr. Bullock who dined with them , felt that the news had been communicated to Mr. Osborne . 
Miss Wirt , by consequence , was alone on her side of the board , a gap being left between her and Miss Jane Osborne . 
Now this was George's place when he dined at home and his cover , as we said , was laid for him in expectation of that truant's return . 
Nothing occurred during dinner time except smiling Mr. Frederick's flagging confidential whispers , and the clinking of plate and china , to interrupt the silence of the repast . 
The servants went about stealthily doing their duty . 
He pointed to it presently with his left hand . 
His daughters looked at him and did not comprehend , or choose to comprehend , the signal nor did the servants at first understand it . 
Take that plate away , at last he said , getting up with an oath and with this pushing his chair back , he walked into his own room . 
Behind Mr. Osborne's dining room was the usual apartment which went in his house by the name of the study and was sacred to the master of the house . 
Hither Mr. Osborne would retire of a Sunday forenoon when not minded to go to church and here pass the morning in his crimson leather chair , reading the paper . 
A couple of glazed book cases were here , containing standard works in stout gilt bindings . 
The Annual Register , the Gentleman's Magazine , Blair's Sermons , and Hume and Smollett . 
No member of the household , child , or domestic , ever entered that room without a certain terror . 
Here he checked the housekeeper's accounts , and overhauled the butler's cellar book . 
Four times a year Miss Wirt entered this apartment to get her salary and his daughters to receive their quarterly allowance . 
George as a boy had been horsewhipped in this room many times his mother sitting sick on the stair listening to the cuts of the whip . 
The boy was scarcely ever known to cry under the punishment the poor woman used to fondle and kiss him secretly , and give him money to soothe him when he came out . 
The mother lay underground now , long since forgotten the sisters and brother had a hundred different interests of their own , and , familiar still , were utterly estranged from each other . 
Osborne's own state portrait , with that of his great silver inkstand and arm chair , had taken the place of honour in the dining room , vacated by the family piece . 
To this study old Osborne retired then , greatly to the relief of the small party whom he left . 
When the servants had withdrawn , they began to talk for a while volubly but very low then they went upstairs quietly , Mr. Bullock accompanying them stealthily on his creaking shoes . 
He had no heart to sit alone drinking wine , and so close to the terrible old gentleman in the study hard at hand . 
An hour at least after dark , the butler , not having received any summons , ventured to tap at his door and take him in wax candles and tea . 
This time there was no mistaking the matter all the household knew that some great catastrophe was going to happen which was likely direly to affect Master George . 
In the large shining mahogany escritoire Mr. Osborne had a drawer especially devoted to his son's affairs and papers . 
His dear godpapa Sedley was more than once mentioned in them . 
Curses quivered on old Osborne's livid lips , and horrid hatred and disappointment writhed in his heart , as looking through some of these papers he came on that name . 
They were all marked and docketed , and tied with red tape . 
It was From Georgy , requesting s . 
, April , answered , April or Georgy about a pony , October and so forth . 
In another packet were Dr . 
S. 's accounts G. 's tailor's bills and outfits , drafts on me by G. Osborne , jun . 
Turning one over after another , and musing over these memorials , the unhappy man passed many hours . 
His dearest vanities , ambitious hopes , had all been here . 
What pride he had in his boy ! He was the handsomest child ever seen . 
Everybody said he was like a nobleman's son . 
A royal princess had remarked him , and kissed him , and asked his name in Kew Gardens . 
What City man could show such another ? Could a prince have been better cared for ? Anything that money could buy had been his son's . 
Had he ever refused a bill when George drew one ? There they were paid without a word . 
Then he opened the book case , and took down the great red Bible we have spoken of a pompous book , seldom looked at , and shining all over with gold . 
There was a frontispiece to the volume , representing Abraham sacrificing Isaac . 
Jane came first , then George Sedley Osborne , then Maria Frances , and the days of the christening of each . 
Taking a pen , he carefully obliterated George's names from the page and when the leaf was quite dry , restored the volume to the place from which he had moved it . 
It was his will which being burned , he sate down and wrote off a letter , and rang for his servant , whom he charged to deliver it in the morning . 
It was morning already as he went up to bed , the whole house was alight with the sunshine and the birds were singing among the fresh green leaves in Russell Square . 
When the girls had gone to rest , Mr. and Mrs. C. discoursed upon the strange events which were occurring in the governor's family . 
Never had the clerk seen his principal so moved . 
Chopper had been instructed to make out an account of all sums paid to Captain Osborne within the last three years . 
The dispute was something about Miss Sedley . 
Mrs. Chopper vowed and declared she pitied that poor young lady to lose such a handsome young fellow as the Capting . 
As the daughter of an unlucky speculator , who had paid a very shabby dividend , Mr. Chopper had no great regard for Miss Sedley . 
He respected the house of Osborne before all others in the City of London and his hope and wish was that Captain George should marry a nobleman's daughter . 
, he set off in his best Sunday suit and frilled shirt for business , promising his admiring wife not to punish Captain D. 's port too severely that evening . 
called by appointment , and was ushered into the governor's private room , and closeted there for more than an hour . 
At about one Mr. Chopper received a note brought by Captain Dobbin's man , and containing an inclosure for Mr. Osborne , which the clerk went in and delivered . 
A short time afterwards Mr. Chopper and Mr. Birch , the next clerk , were summoned , and requested to witness a paper . 
I've been making a new will , Mr. Osborne said , to which these gentlemen appended their names accordingly . 
Mr. Higgs looked exceedingly grave as he came into the outer rooms , and very hard in Mr. Chopper's face but there were not any explanations . 
It was remarked that Mr. Osborne was particularly quiet and gentle all day , to the surprise of those who had augured ill from his darkling demeanour . 
He called no man names that day , and was not heard to swear once . 
Indeed both of them knew the fact perfectly . 
Osborne took a letter directed to that officer , and giving it to the clerk , requested the latter to deliver it into Dobbin's own hands immediately . 
And now , Chopper , says he , taking his hat , and with a strange look , my mind will be easy . 
Mr. Frederick Bullock called , and he and Mr. Osborne walked away together . 
Captain Dobbin was an especial favourite of this old General . 
to Mademoiselle Amenaide of His Majesty's Theatre . 
This note , despatched by the same messenger who had carried the invitation to Chopper on the previous day , alarmed the worthy clerk not a little . 
It was inclosed to him , and as he opened the letter he trembled lest the dinner should be put off on which he was calculating . 
His mind was inexpressibly relieved when he found that the envelope was only a reminder for himself . 
He was very much interested about his employer's family but , que voulez vous ? a grand dinner was of more concern to him than the affairs of any other mortal . 
Mr. Stubble , as may be supposed from his size and slenderness , was of the Light Bobs . 
the Grenadier Company , and he tried on a new bearskin cap , under which he looked savage beyond his years . 
Ah ! there were many anxious hearts beating through England at that time and mothers' prayers and tears flowing in many homesteads . 
, Dobbin , who was going to write off a letter to George Osborne , relented , and locked up his desk . 
Why should I ? said he . 
Let her have this night happy . 
I'll go and see my parents early in the morning , and go down to Brighton myself to morrow . 
Young Stubble's eyes brightened up at this , for Dobbin was greatly respected in the regiment , as the best officer and the cleverest man in it . 
Thank you , Dobbin , he said , rubbing his eyes with his knuckles , I was just just telling her I would . 
And , O Sir , she's so dam kind to me . 
The water pumps were at work again , and I am not sure that the soft hearted Captain's eyes did not also twinkle . 
The two ensigns , the Captain , and Mr. Chopper , dined together in the same box . 
Chopper brought the letter from Mr. Osborne , in which the latter briefly presented his compliments to Captain Dobbin , and requested him to forward the inclosed to Captain George Osborne . 
But these grew more vague with every glass , and at length became perfectly unintelligible . 
But though she waited at home the Captain never came . 
Mr. Frederick Bullock came , and was particularly affectionate to Maria , and attentive to the broken spirited old gentleman . 
But you need not say that to Mrs. Osborne , you know . 
There mayn't be any fighting on our side after all , and our business in Belgium may turn out to be a mere military occupation . 
Many persons think so and Brussels is full of fine people and ladies of fashion . 
So it was agreed to represent the duty of the British army in Belgium in this harmless light to Amelia . 
Little Amelia , it must be owned , had rather a mean opinion of her husband's friend , Captain Dobbin . 
He lisped he was very plain and homely looking and exceedingly awkward and ungainly . 
, and she thought George was most generous and kind in extending his friendship to his brother officer . 
George had mimicked Dobbin's lisp and queer manners many times to her , though to do him justice , he always spoke most highly of his friend's good qualities . 
A time came when she knew him better , and changed her notions regarding him but that was distant as yet . 
As for Rebecca , Captain Dobbin had not been two hours in the ladies' company before she understood his secret perfectly . 
She did not like him , and feared him privately nor was he very much prepossessed in her favour . 
He was so honest , that her arts and cajoleries did not affect him , and he shrank from her with instinctive repulsion . 
And , as she was by no means so far superior to her sex as to be above jealousy , she disliked him the more for his adoration of Amelia . 
Nevertheless , she was very respectful and cordial in her manner towards him . 
Rawdon Crawley paid scarcely any attention to Dobbin , looking upon him as a good natured nincompoop and under bred City man . 
Jos patronised him with much dignity . 
This determination is final and irrevocable . 
yet I am instructed by Mr. Osborne to say , that he waives all claim upon your estate , and that the sum of , . 
, shall be paid over to yourself or your agents upon your receipt for the same , by Your obedient Servt . 
P. S. Mr. Osborne desires me to say , once for all , that he declines to receive any messages , letters , or communications from you on this or any other subject . 
A pretty way you have managed the affair , said George , looking savagely at William Dobbin . 
Look there , Dobbin , and he flung over to the latter his parent's letter . 
A beggar , by Jove , and all in consequence of my d d sentimentality . 
You were never easy until you had got me married and ruined . 
What the deuce am I to do with two thousand pounds ? Such a sum won't last two years . 
I've lost a hundred and forty to Crawley at cards and billiards since I've been down here . 
A pretty manager of a man's matters YOU are , forsooth . 
There are some men who wouldn't mind changing with you , he added , with a bitter smile . 
Do you suppose a man of my habits call live on his pay and a hundred a year ? George cried out in great anger . 
You must be a fool to talk so , Dobbin . 
How the deuce am I to keep up my position in the world upon such a pitiful pittance ? I can't change my habits . 
I must have my comforts . 
I wasn't brought up on porridge , like MacWhirter , or on potatoes , like old O'Dowd . 
But try and remember that you are only a dethroned prince now , George , my boy and be quiet whilst the tempest lasts . 
It won't be for long . 
Let your name be mentioned in the Gazette , and I'll engage the old father relents towards you Mentioned in the Gazette ! George answered . 
And in what part of it ? Among the killed and wounded returns , and at the top of the list , very likely . 
Psha ! It will be time enough to cry out when we are hurt , Dobbin said . 
I say , Becky , cried Rawdon Crawley out of his dressing room , to his lady , who was attiring herself for dinner in her own chamber . 
What ? said Becky's shrill voice . 
She was looking over her shoulder in the glass . 
I say , what'll Mrs. O. do , when . 
I suppose she'll cry her eyes out , Becky answered . 
She has been whimpering half a dozen times , at the very notion of it , already to me . 
YOU don't care , I suppose ? Rawdon said , half angry at his wife's want of feeling . 
You wretch ! don't you know that I intend to go with you , Becky replied . 
You go as General Tufto's aide de camp . 
We don't belong to the line , Mrs. Crawley said , throwing up her head with an air that so enchanted her husband that he stooped down and kissed it . 
Rawdon dear don't you think you'd better get that money from Cupid , before he goes ? Becky continued , fixing on a killing bow . 
She called George Osborne , Cupid . 
She had flattered him about his good looks a score of times already . 
She watched over him kindly at ecarte of a night when he would drop in to Rawdon's quarters for a half hour before bed time . 
She had often called him a horrid dissipated wretch , and threatened to tell Emmy of his wicked ways and naughty extravagant habits . 
She brought his cigar and lighted it for him she knew the effect of that manoeuvre , having practised it in former days upon Rawdon Crawley . 
He thought her gay , brisk , arch , distinguee , delightful . 
Emmy's mind somehow misgave her about her friend . 
Rebecca's wit , spirits , and accomplishments troubled her with a rueful disquiet . 
They were only a week married , and here was George already suffering ennui , and eager for others' society ! She trembled for the future . 
I ought to have stopped at home and taken care of poor Papa . 
was now remembered for the first time , and caused her to blush with humiliation . 
Oh ! thought she , I have been very wicked and selfish selfish in forgetting them in their sorrows selfish in forcing George to marry me . 
I know I'm not worthy of him I know he would have been happy without me and yet I tried , I tried to give him up . 
It is hard when , before seven days of marriage are over , such thoughts and confessions as these force themselves on a little bride's mind . 
I know Miss Smith has a mean opinion of her . 
How delicious they smell in the open air ! I adore them . 
Who'd think the moon was two hundred and thirty six thousand eight hundred and forty seven miles off ? Becky added , gazing at that orb with a smile . 
Isn't it clever of me to remember that ? Pooh ! we learned it all at Miss Pinkerton's ! How calm the sea is , and how clear everything . 
I declare I can almost see the coast of France ! and her bright green eyes streamed out , and shot into the night as if they could see through it . 
Isn't that a stratagem ? George burst out laughing at the idea of this aquatic meeting . 
What's the row there , you two ? Rawdon shouted out , rattling the box . 
Amelia was making a fool of herself in an absurd hysterical manner , and retired to her own room to whimper in private . 
George was too humane or too much occupied with the tie of his neckcloth to convey at once all the news to Amelia which his comrade had brought with him from London . 
Dearest George parried the question about foreign service , and with a melancholy shake of the head said , No , Emmy it isn't that it's not myself I care about it's you . 
I have had bad news from my father . 
He refuses any communication with me he has flung us off and leaves us to poverty . 
I can rough it well enough but you , my dear , how will you bear it ? read here . 
And he handed her over the letter . 
Her face cleared up as she read the document , however . 
The idea of sharing poverty and privation in company with the beloved object is , as we have before said , far from being disagreeable to a warm hearted woman . 
The notion was actually pleasant to little Amelia . 
But he can't be angry with you long , she continued . 
Nobody could , I'm sure . 
He must forgive you , my dearest , kindest husband . 
O , I shall never forgive myself if he does not . 
What vexes me , my poor Emmy , is not my misfortune , but yours , George said . 
I don't care for a little poverty and I think , without vanity , I've talents enough to make my own way . 
That you have , interposed his wife , who thought that war should cease , and her husband should be made a general instantly . 
Thus the repast , which at length came off , instead of being dismal , was an exceedingly brisk and merry one . 
The excitement of the campaign counteracted in George's mind the depression occasioned by the disinheriting letter . 
Dobbin still kept up his character of rattle . 
He amused the company with accounts of the army in Belgium where nothing but fetes and gaiety and fashion were going on . 
Ghent ! Brussels ! cried out Amelia with a sudden shock and start . 
Is the regiment ordered away , George is it ordered away ? A look of terror came over the sweet smiling face , and she clung to George as by an instinct . 
Don't be afraid , dear , he said good naturedly it is but a twelve hours' passage . 
You shall go , too , Emmy . 
I intend to go , said Becky . 
General Tufto is a great flirt of mine . 
Isn't he , Rawdon ? Rawdon laughed out with his usual roar . 
William Dobbin flushed up quite red . 
We'll have Mrs. O'Dowd to chaperon you , he said . 
What cared she so long as her husband was near her ? Thus somehow the bitterness of a parting was juggled away . 
Though war and danger were in store , war and danger might not befall for months to come . 
For , to be permitted to see her was now the greatest privilege and hope of his life , and he thought with himself secretly how he would watch and protect her . 
I wouldn't have let her go if I had been married to her , he thought . 
But George was the master , and his friend did not think fit to remonstrate . 
Great news , she wrote . 
Get the money from Cupid tonight , as he'll be off to morrow most likely . 
With these they set off in state , after breakfast , the next day . 
She was only too glad , however , to perform this office for herself . 
As long as she remained by the side of her sister in law , Mrs. Bute Crawley took care that her beloved Matilda should not be agitated by a meeting with her nephew . 
When the spinster took her drive , the faithful Mrs. Bute sate beside her in the carriage . 
When Miss Crawley took the air in a chair , Mrs. Bute marched on one side of the vehicle , whilst honest Briggs occupied the other wing . 
We might as well be in London as here , Captain Rawdon often said , with a downcast air . 
A comfortable inn in Brighton is better than a spunging house in Chancery Lane , his wife answered , who was of a more cheerful temperament . 
Think of those two aides de camp of Mr. Moses , the sheriff's officer , who watched our lodging for a week . 
Our friends here are very stupid , but Mr. Jos and Captain Cupid are better companions than Mr. Moses's men , Rawdon , my love . 
I wonder the writs haven't followed me down here , Rawdon continued , still desponding . 
It will hardly be enough to pay the inn bill , grumbled the Guardsman . 
Why need we pay it ? said the lady , who had an answer for everything . 
Nor was Miss Briggs , although forced to adopt a hostile attitude , secretly inimical to Rawdon and his wife . 
She was naturally of a kindly and forgiving disposition . 
Now that the cause of jealousy was removed , her dislike for Rebecca disappeared also , and she remembered the latter's invariable good words and good humour . 
And , indeed , she and Mrs. Firkin , the lady's maid , and the whole of Miss Crawley's household , groaned under the tyranny of the triumphant Mrs. Bute . 
As often will be the case , that good but imperious woman pushed her advantages too far , and her successes quite unmercifully . 
She apportioned the sweetbreads , jellies , chickens their quantity and order . 
She's no spirit left in her , Firkin remarked to Briggs she ain't ave called me a fool these three weeks . 
The Reverend Bute Crawley , her husband , riding home one night , fell with his horse and broke his collar bone . 
Fever and inflammatory symptoms set in , and Mrs. Bute was forced to leave Sussex for Hampshire . 
It was as in the old nursery story , when the stick forgot to beat the dog , and the whole course of events underwent a peaceful and happy revolution . 
It was a pretty picture the beach the bathing women's faces the long line of rocks and building were blushing and bright in the sunshine . 
Rebecca wore a kind , tender smile on her face , and was holding out her pretty white hand as Briggs emerged from the box . 
What could Briggs do but accept the salutation ? Miss Sh Mrs. Crawley , she said . 
Mrs. Crawley seized her hand , pressed it to her heart , and with a sudden impulse , flinging her arms round Briggs , kissed her affectionately . 
Rebecca found no difficulty in engaging Briggs in a long , intimate , and delightful conversation . 
All Miss Crawley's symptoms , and the particulars of her illness and medical treatment , were narrated by the confidante with that fulness and accuracy which women delight in . 
About their complaints and their doctors do ladies ever tire of talking to each other ? Briggs did not on this occasion nor did Rebecca weary of listening . 
She was thankful , truly thankful , that the dear kind Briggs , that the faithful , the invaluable Firkin , had been permitted to remain with their benefactress through her illness . 
I would never have treated Miss Crawley's faithful friends as that odious designing Mrs. Bute has done . 
to remember that her own home , humble as it was , was always open to receive Briggs . 
It was all very true . 
Briggs saw the stratagems as clearly as possible . 
Mrs. Bute had made the match between Rawdon and Rebecca . 
On this point Rebecca had her own opinion , and still kept up a good heart . 
If Miss Crawley did not forgive them at present , she might at least relent on a future day . 
Even now , there was only that puling , sickly Pitt Crawley between Rawdon and a baronetcy and should anything happen to the former , all would be well . 
This interview ended , it became full time for Rebecca to return to her inn , where all the party of the previous day were assembled at a farewell breakfast . 
Her hopes were very high she made her husband share them . 
She generally succeeded in making her husband share all her opinions , whether melancholy or cheerful . 
So Rawdon sate down , and wrote off , Brighton , Thursday , and My dear Aunt , with great rapidity but there the gallant officer's imagination failed him . 
He mumbled the end of his pen , and looked up in his wife's face . 
Before quitting the country and commencing a campaign , which very possibly may be fatal . 
What ? said Rawdon , rather surprised , but took the humour of the phrase , and presently wrote it down with a grin . 
Which very possibly may be fatal , I have come hither Why not say come here , Becky ? Come here's grammar , the dragoon interposed . 
I have come hither , Rebecca insisted , with a stamp of her foot , to say farewell to my dearest and earliest friend . 
I beseech you before I go , not perhaps to return , once more to let me press the hand from which I have received nothing but kindnesses all my life . 
Kindnesses all my life , echoed Rawdon , scratching down the words , and quite amazed at his own facility of composition . 
I ask nothing from you but that we should part not in anger . 
I have the pride of my family on some points , though not on all . 
I married a painter's daughter , and am not ashamed of the union . 
No , run me through the body if I am ! Rawdon ejaculated . 
You old booby , Rebecca said , pinching his ear and looking over to see that he made no mistakes in spelling beseech is not spelt with an a , and earliest is . 
So he altered these words , bowing to the superior knowledge of his little Missis . 
I thought that you were aware of the progress of my attachment , Rebecca continued I knew that Mrs. Bute Crawley confirmed and encouraged it . 
But I make no reproaches . 
I married a poor woman , and am content to abide by what I have done . 
Leave your property , dear Aunt , as you will . 
I shall never complain of the way in which you dispose of it . 
I would have you believe that I love you for yourself , and not for money's sake . 
I want to be reconciled to you ere I leave England . 
Let me , let me see you before I go . 
A few weeks or months hence it may be too late , and I cannot bear the notion of quitting the country without a kind word of farewell from you . 
She won't recognise my style in that , said Becky . 
I made the sentences short and brisk on purpose . 
And this authentic missive was despatched under cover to Miss Briggs . 
Old Miss Crawley laughed when Briggs , with great mystery , handed her over this candid and simple statement . 
We may read it now Mrs. Bute is away , she said . 
Read it to me , Briggs . 
When Briggs had read the epistle out , her patroness laughed more . 
He never wrote to me without asking for money in his life , and all his letters are full of bad spelling , and dashes , and bad grammar . 
It is that little serpent of a governess who rules him . 
They are all alike , Miss Crawley thought in her heart . 
They all want me dead , and are hankering for my money . 
I don't mind seeing Rawdon , she added , after a pause , and in a tone of perfect indifference . 
I had just as soon shake hands with him as not . 
Provided there is no scene , why shouldn't we meet ? I don't mind . 
And as for Rawdon , he turned as red as scarlet , and wrung off Briggs's hand , so great was his rapture and his confusion at the meeting . 
Perhaps it was interest that moved him or perhaps affection perhaps he was touched by the change which the illness of the last weeks had wrought in his aunt . 
I walked by the side of the what dy'e call 'em , you know , and to her own door , where Bowls came to help her in . 
And I wanted to go in very much , only YOU DIDN'T GO IN , Rawdon ! screamed his wife . 
No , my dear I'm hanged if I wasn't afraid when it came to the point . 
You fool ! you ought to have gone in , and never come out again , Rebecca said . 
Don't call me names , said the big Guardsman , sulkily . 
Miss Crawley must have had some emotion upon seeing him and shaking hands with him after so long a rupture . 
She mused upon the meeting a considerable time . 
Rawdon is getting very fat and old , Briggs , she said to her companion . 
His nose has become red , and he is exceedingly coarse in appearance . 
His marriage to that woman has hopelessly vulgarised him . 
Mrs. Bute always said they drank together and I have no doubt they do . 
Yes he smelt of gin abominably . 
Poor Briggs went and placed herself obediently at the writing book . 
Its leaves were blotted all over with relics of the firm , strong , rapid handwriting of the spinster's late amanuensis , Mrs. Bute Crawley . 
And thank him for coming to Brighton , and so forth , and beg him not to stay any longer on my account . 
Yes , that will do and that will make him leave Brighton . 
The benevolent Briggs penned this sentence with the utmost satisfaction . 
To seize upon me the very day after Mrs. Bute was gone , the old lady prattled on it was too indecent . 
Briggs , my dear , write to Mrs. Crawley , and say SHE needn't come back . 
No she needn't and she shan't and I won't be a slave in my own house and I won't be starved and choked with poison . 
They all want to kill me all all and with this the lonely old woman burst into a scream of hysterical tears . 
The last scene of her dismal Vanity Fair comedy was fast approaching the tawdry lamps were going out one by one and the dark curtain was almost ready to descend . 
And it effected the purpose for which the old lady had caused it to be written , by making Rawdon very eager to get to London . 
Rawdon and his wife returned by the same conveyance next day . 
I should have liked to see the old girl before we went , Rawdon said . 
She looks so cut up and altered that I'm sure she can't last long . 
I wonder what sort of a cheque I shall have at Waxy's . 
They were all off to Chatham , thence to Harwich , to take shipping for Belgium with the regiment kind old Mrs. Sedley very much depressed and tearful , solitary . 
Returning from this visit , Rebecca found her husband , who had been off to Gray's Inn , and learnt his fate . 
George pooh poohed the wine and bullied the waiters royally , and Jos gobbled the turtle with immense satisfaction . 
The splendour of the entertainment , and the apartments in which it was given , alarmed Mr. Dobbin , who remonstrated after dinner , when Jos was asleep in the great chair . 
But in vain he cried out against the enormity of turtle and champagne that was fit for an archbishop . 
I've always been accustomed to travel like a gentleman , George said , and , damme , my wife shall travel like a lady . 
As long as there's a shot in the locker , she shall want for nothing , said the generous fellow , quite pleased with himself for his magnificence of spirit . 
Nor did Dobbin try and convince him that Amelia's happiness was not centred in turtle soup . 
A while after dinner , Amelia timidly expressed a wish to go and see her mamma , at Fulham which permission George granted her with some grumbling . 
George was still drinking claret when she returned to the dining room , and made no signs of moving . 
Ar'n't you coming with me , dearest ? she asked him . 
No the dearest had business that night . 
His man should get her a coach and go with her . 
The very valet was ashamed of mentioning the address to the hackney coachman before the hotel waiters , and promised to instruct him when they got further on . 
Dobbin walked home to his old quarters and the Slaughters' , thinking very likely that it would be delightful to be in that hackney coach , along with Mrs. Osborne . 
George was evidently of quite a different taste for when he had taken wine enough , he went off to half price at the play , to see Mr. Kean perform in Shylock . 
Captain Osborne was a great lover of the drama , and had himself performed high comedy characters with great distinction in several garrison theatrical entertainments . 
Old Mr. Clapp , who was in his shirt sleeves , trimming the garden plot , shrank back alarmed . 
The Irish servant lass rushed up from the kitchen and smiled a God bless you . 
Amelia could hardly walk along the flags and up the steps into the parlour . 
About a question of marriage I have seen women who hate each other kiss and cry together quite fondly . 
Let us respect Amelia and her mamma whispering and whimpering and laughing and crying in the parlour and the twilight . 
HE had not divined who was in the carriage when it drove up . 
, and after sitting with the mother and daughter for a short time , he very wisely left the little apartment in their possession . 
George's valet was looking on in a very supercilious manner at Mr. Clapp in his shirt sleeves , watering his rose bushes . 
He gave him a half guinea too , which the servant pocketed with a mixture of wonder and contempt . 
To the health of your master and mistress , Trotter , Mr. Sedley said , and here's something to drink your health when you get home , Trotter . 
There were but nine days past since Amelia had left that little cottage and home and yet how far off the time seemed since she had bidden it farewell . 
What a gulf lay between her and that past life . 
The review of those days , so lately gone yet so far away , touched her with shame and the aspect of the kind parents filled her with tender remorse . 
, there to take measures for the preparing of a magnificent ornamented tea . 
She sank back in its arms as if it were an old friend and fell to thinking over the past week , and the life beyond it . 
Here she sate , and recalled to herself fondly that image of George to which she had knelt before marriage . 
Then Rebecca's twinkling green eyes and baleful smile lighted upon her , and filled her with dismay . 
Love had been her faith hitherto and the sad , bleeding disappointed heart began to feel the want of another consoler . 
Have we a right to repeat or to overhear her prayers ? These , brother , are secrets , and out of the domain of Vanity Fair , in which our story lies . 
She went downstairs , and kissed her father and mother , and talked to the old gentleman , and made him more merry than he had been for many a day . 
She sate down at the piano which Dobbin had bought for her , and sang over all her father's favourite old songs . 
She pronounced the tea to be excellent , and praised the exquisite taste in which the marmalade was arranged in the saucers . 
For the next day , George had more important business to transact than that which took him to see Mr. Kean in Shylock . 
Immediately on his arrival in London he had written off to his father's solicitors , signifying his royal pleasure that an interview should take place between them on the morrow . 
He had a perfect belief in his own mind that his father would relent before very long . 
And if not ? Bah ! the world was before him . 
His luck might change at cards , and there was a deal of spending in two thousand pounds . 
They had but one day to complete the outfit , and it may be imagined that their business therefore occupied them pretty fully . 
Nor was Mrs. Amelia at all above the pleasure of shopping , and bargaining , and seeing and buying pretty things . 
And about the war that was ensuing , Mrs. Osborne was not much alarmed Bonaparty was to be crushed almost without a struggle . 
Margate packets were sailing every day , filled with men of fashion and ladies of note , on their way to Brussels and Ghent . 
People were going not so much to a war as to a fashionable tour . 
The newspapers laughed the wretched upstart and swindler to scorn . 
The miserable poor devils knew all about his affairs . 
They talked about them over their pints of beer at their public house clubs to other clerks of a night . 
Ye gods , what do not attorneys and attorneys' clerks know in London ! Nothing is hidden from their inquisition , and their families mutely rule our city . 
He pretended to be writing at a paper , when the Captain entered . 
Pray , sit down , sir , said he , and I will attend to your little affair in a moment . 
Mr. Poe , get the release papers , if you please and then he fell to writing again . 
Give me a cheque , sir , said the Captain very surlily . 
That chap will be in gaol in two years , Mr. Higgs said to Mr. Poe . 
Won't O. come round , sir , don't you think ? Won't the monument come round , Mr. Higgs replied . 
He's going it pretty fast , said the clerk . 
He's only married a week , and I saw him and some other military chaps handing Mrs. Highflyer to her carriage after the play . 
And then another case was called , and Mr. George Osborne thenceforth dismissed from these worthy gentlemen's memory . 
, whose yellow face was over a ledger , at which sate a demure clerk , happened to be in the banking room when George entered . 
His yellow face turned to a more deadly colour when he saw the Captain , and he slunk back guiltily into the inmost parlour . 
, to mark the countenance or flight of the cadaverous suitor of his sister . 
Fred Bullock told old Osborne of his son's appearance and conduct . 
He came in as bold as brass , said Frederick . 
He has drawn out every shilling . 
How long will a few hundred pounds last such a chap as that ? Osborne swore with a great oath that he little cared when or how soon he spent it . 
Fred dined every day in Russell Square now . 
But altogether , George was highly pleased with his day's business . 
All his own baggage and outfit was put into a state of speedy preparation , and he paid Amelia's purchases with cheques on his agents , and with the splendour of a lord . 
Along with the Captain was Ensign Stubble who , as the barouche neared the inn , burst out with an exclamation of By Jove ! what a pretty girl highly applauding Osborne's choice . 
Dobbin liked him for making it . 
Dobbin took most kindly to Mr. Stubble from that day , and encouraged him to talk about Amelia in their private walks , and at each other's quarters . 
It became the fashion , indeed , among all the honest young fellows of the th to adore and admire Mrs. Osborne . 
Her simple artless behaviour , and modest kindness of demeanour , won all their unsophisticated hearts all which simplicity and sweetness are quite impossible to describe in print . 
In the sitting room which was awaiting the travellers , Amelia , to her surprise , found a letter addressed to Mrs. Captain Osborne . 
It's Peggy O'Dowd's fist , said George , laughing . 
I know it by the kisses on the seal . 
And in fact , it was a note from Mrs. Major O'Dowd , requesting the pleasure of Mrs. Osborne's company that very evening to a small friendly party . 
You must go , George said . 
You will make acquaintance with the regiment there . 
Sure , I couldn't stop till tay time . 
Present me , Garge , my dear fellow , to your lady . 
You've often heard of me from that husband of yours , said the lady , with great vivacity . 
You've often heard of her , echoed her husband , the Major . 
Amelia answered , smiling , that she had . 
And small good he's told you of me , Mrs. O'Dowd replied adding that George was a wicked divvle . 
This , my dear , said George with great gravity , is my very good , kind , and excellent friend , Auralia Margaretta , otherwise called Peggy . 
Faith , you're right , interposed the Major . 
Otherwise called Peggy , lady of Major Michael O'Dowd , of our regiment , and daughter of Fitzjurld Ber'sford de Burgo Malony of Glenmalony , County Kildare . 
And Muryan Squeer , Doblin , said the lady with calm superiority . 
And Muryan Square , sure enough , the Major whispered . 
'Twas there ye coorted me , Meejor dear , the lady said and the Major assented to this as to every other proposition which was made generally in company . 
At the mess table he sat silently , and drank a great deal . 
When full of liquor , he reeled silently home . 
When he spoke , it was to agree with everybody on every conceivable point and he passed through life in perfect ease and good humour . 
The hottest suns of India never heated his temper and the Walcheren ague never shook it . 
company , this amiable lady told all her birth and pedigree to her new friend . 
My dear , said she , good naturedly , it was my intention that Garge should be a brother of my own , and my sister Glorvina would have suited him entirely . 
Faith , you've got such a nice good natured face and way widg you , that I'm sure we'll agree and that you'll be an addition to our family anyway . 
We're all good fellows here , the Major's lady continued . 
There's not a regiment in the service where you'll find a more united society nor a more agreeable mess room . 
There's no quarrelling , bickering , slandthering , nor small talk amongst us . 
We all love each other . 
Especially Mrs. Magenis , said George , laughing . 
Mrs. Captain Magenis and me has made up , though her treatment of me would bring me gray hairs with sorrow to the grave . 
And you with such a beautiful front of black , Peggy , my dear , the Major cried . 
Hould your tongue , Mick , you booby . 
I'll tell you about the regiment , and warn you when we're alone . 
Mr. Sedley , sir , I'm deloighted to be made known te ye . 
I suppose you'll dine at the mess to day . 
It's the th gives us a farewell dinner , my love , interposed the Major , but we'll easy get a card for Mr. Sedley . 
Before Mrs. O'Dowd's speech was concluded , the young Ensign was trotting downstairs on his commission . 
Obedience is the soul of the army . 
She told Amelia a thousand particulars relative to the very numerous family of which the amazed young lady found herself a member . 
Mrs. Magenis , though without education , was a good woman , but she had the divvle's tongue , and would cheat her own mother at whist . 
Nayther of 'em's goin' with the regiment this time , Mrs. O'Dowd added . 
Mrs. Bunny's in an interesting situation faith , and she always is , then and has given the Lieutenant seven already . 
Of this incongruous family our astonished Amelia found herself all of a sudden a member with Mrs. O'Dowd as an elder sister . 
I hope Osborne has sown his wild oats , said Mrs. Magenis to Mrs. Bunny . 
And as for Mrs. Kirk that disciple of Dr . 
But all the men , like good fellows as they were , rallied round their comrade's pretty wife , and paid her their court with soldierly gallantry . 
She had a little triumph , which flushed her spirits and made her eyes sparkle . 
with which she received the gentlemen's attentions , and answered their compliments . 
And he in his uniform how much handsomer he was than any man in the room ! She felt that he was affectionately watching her , and glowed with pleasure at his kindness . 
I will make all his friends welcome , she resolved in her heart . 
I will love all as I love him . 
I will always try and be gay and good humoured and make his home happy . 
The regiment indeed adopted her with acclamation . 
The Captains approved , the Lieutenants applauded , the Ensigns admired . 
Young Stubble went about from man to man whispering , Jove , isn't she a pretty gal ? and never took his eyes off her except when the negus came in . 
As for Captain Dobbin , he never so much as spoke to her during the whole evening . 
Having put the Collector into the hands of his servant , Dobbin loitered about , smoking his cigar before the inn door . 
So Amelia gave Dobbin her little hand as she got out of the carriage , and rebuked him smilingly for not having taken any notice of her all night . 
The Captain continued that deleterious amusement of smoking , long after the inn and the street were gone to bed . 
He watched the lights vanish from George's sitting room windows , and shine out in the bedroom close at hand . 
It was almost morning when he returned to his own quarters . 
He could hear the cheering from the ships in the river , where the transports were already taking in their cargoes preparatory to dropping down the Thames . 
As soon as he had agreed to escort his sister abroad , it was remarked that he ceased shaving his upper lip . 
At Chatham he followed the parades and drills with great assiduity . 
, and learned as many military names as he could . 
, rated him and laughed at him soundly the mustachios were grown in advance , and Jos finally was persuaded to embark . 
Times are altered at Ostend now of the Britons who go thither , very few look like lords , or act like those members of our hereditary aristocracy . 
They seem for the most part shabby in attire , dingy of linen , lovers of billiards and brandy , and cigars and greasy ordinaries . 
But it may be said as a rule , that every Englishman in the Duke of Wellington's army paid his way . 
The remembrance of such a fact surely becomes a nation of shopkeepers . 
It was a blessing for a commerce loving country to be overrun by such an army of customers and to have such creditable warriors to feed . 
And the country which they came to protect is not military . 
For a long period of history they have let other people fight there . 
Pas si bete such an answer and sentiment as no Frenchman would own to was his reply . 
But , on the other hand , the postilion who drove us was a Viscount , a son of some bankrupt Imperial General , who accepted a pennyworth of beer on the road . 
The moral is surely a good one . 
As our painters are bent on military subjects just now , I throw out this as a good subject for the pencil , to illustrate the principle of an honest English war . 
All looked as brilliant and harmless as a Hyde Park review . 
The famous regiment , with so many of whose officers we have made acquaintance , was drafted in canal boats to Bruges and Ghent , thence to march to Brussels . 
Jos accompanied the ladies in the public boats the which all old travellers in Flanders must remember for the luxury and accommodation they afforded . 
Jos's death was not to be of this sort , but his comfort was exceeding , and Mrs. O'Dowd insisted that he only wanted her sister Glorvina to make his happiness complete . 
He sate on the roof of the cabin all day drinking Flemish beer , shouting for Isidor , his servant , and talking gallantly to the ladies . 
Boney attack us ! he cried . 
My dear creature , my poor Emmy , don't be frightened . 
You don't know military affairs , my dear . 
I do , and I tell you there's no infantry in France can stand against Rooshian infantry , and no general of Boney's that's fit to hold a candle to Wittgenstein . 
Then there are the Austrians , they are five hundred thousand if a man , and they are within ten marches of the frontier by this time , under Schwartzenberg and Prince Charles . 
Then there are the Prooshians under the gallant Prince Marshal . 
Show me a cavalry chief like him now that Murat is gone . 
Hey , Mrs. O'Dowd ? Do you think our little girl here need be afraid ? Is there any cause for fear , Isidor ? Hey , sir ? Get some more beer . 
He was rather a favourite with the regiment , treating the young officers with sumptuosity , and amusing them by his military airs . 
, to exchange into some better regiment soon , and to get his wife away from those damned vulgar women . 
and Mrs. Amelia , a natural and unaffected person , had none of that artificial shamefacedness which her husband mistook for delicacy on his own part . 
Talk about kenal boats my dear ! Ye should see the kenal boats between Dublin and Ballinasloe . 
It's there the rapid travelling is and the beautiful cattle . 
for a four year old heifer , the like of which ye never saw in this country any day . 
And Jos owned with a sigh , that for good streaky beef , really mingled with fat and lean , there was no country like England . 
The idea of comparing the market at Bruges with those of Dublin , although she had suggested it herself , caused immense scorn and derision on her part . 
The place was full of English soldiery as they passed . 
Every day during this happy time there was novelty and amusement for all parties . 
There was a church to see , or a picture gallery there was a ride , or an opera . 
The bands of the regiments were making music at all hours . 
The greatest folks of England walked in the Park there was a perpetual military festival . 
George , taking out his wife to a new jaunt or junket every night , was quite pleased with himself as usual , and swore he was becoming quite a domestic character . 
Her husband bade her buy laces , millinery , jewels , and gimcracks of all sorts . 
Old Bareacres , who had not much pride and a large appetite , would go for a dinner anywhere . 
I. hope there will be no women besides our own party , Lady Bareacres said , after reflecting upon the invitation which had been made , and accepted with too much precipitancy . 
The men are bearable , but their women Wife , just married , dev'lish pretty woman , I hear , the old Earl said . 
Well , my dear Blanche , said the mother , I suppose , as Papa wants to go , we must go but we needn't know them in England , you know . 
This is a species of dignity in which the high bred British female reigns supreme . 
To watch the behaviour of a fine lady to other and humbler women , is a very good sport for a philosophical frequenter of Vanity Fair . 
This festival , on which honest George spent a great deal of money , was the very dismallest of all the entertainments which Amelia had in her honeymoon . 
He has thick curling brown hair and black eyebrows now , and his whiskers are of the deepest purple . 
He was light haired and bald in , and stouter in the person and in the limbs , which especially have shrunk very much of late . 
, his hair , which was very scarce and quite white , suddenly grew thick , and brown , and curly , and his whiskers and eyebrows took their present colour . 
Ill natured people say that his chest is all wool , and that his hair , because it never grows , is a wig . 
You should see the flowers at Glenmalony , Mrs. O'Dowd was remarking . 
Me fawther has three Scotch garners with nine helpers . 
We have an acre of hot houses , and pines as common as pays in the sayson . 
Our greeps weighs six pounds every bunch of 'em , and upon me honour and conscience I think our magnolias is as big as taykettles . 
, fell back in the crowd , crowing and sputtering until he reached a safe distance , when he exploded amongst the astonished market people with shrieks of yelling laughter . 
Hwhat's that gawky guggling about ? said Mrs. O'Dowd . 
Is it his nose bleedn ? He always used to say 'twas his nose bleedn , till he must have pomped all the blood out of 'um . 
An't the magnolias at Glenmalony as big as taykettles , O'Dowd ? 'Deed then they are , and bigger , Peggy , the Major said . 
When the conversation was interrupted in the manner stated by the arrival of the officer who purchased the bouquet . 
Devlish fine horse who is it ? George asked . 
Where you got your step , said George with a laugh . 
General Tufto ! Then , my dear , the Crawleys are come . 
Amelia's heart fell she knew not why . 
The sun did not seem to shine so bright . 
George purchased a horse for his private riding , and he and Captain Dobbin would often accompany the carriage in which Jos and his sister took daily excursions of pleasure . 
, and by the side of the gallant General Tufto . 
Sure it's the Juke himself , cried Mrs. Major O'Dowd to Jos , who began to blush violently and that's Lord Uxbridge on the bay . 
How elegant he looks ! Me brother , Molloy Malony , is as like him as two pays . 
the black cock's feathers until she began to think she had made a conquest of him . 
George , who had been delayed behind , rode up almost immediately with Dobbin , and they touched their caps to the august personages , among whom Osborne at once perceived Mrs. Crawley . 
He was delighted to see Rawdon leaning over his carriage familiarly and talking to Amelia , and met the aide de camp's cordial greeting with more than corresponding warmth . 
The nods between Rawdon and Dobbin were of the very faintest specimens of politeness . 
Crawley told George where they were stopping with General Tufto at the Hotel du Parc , and George made his friend promise to come speedily to Osborne's own residence . 
Sorry I hadn't seen you three days ago , George said . 
Had a dinner at the Restaurateur's rather a nice thing . 
Lord Bareacres , and the Countess , and Lady Blanche , were good enough to dine with us wish we'd had you . 
How well the Juke looked , Mrs. O'Dowd remarked . 
The Wellesleys and Malonys are related but , of course , poor I would never dream of introjuicing myself unless his Grace thought proper to remember our family tie . 
He's a great soldier , Jos said , much more at ease now the great man was gone . 
The apparition of the great personages held them all in talk during the drive and at dinner and until the hour came when they were all to go to the Opera . 
It was almost like Old England . 
The house was filled with familiar British faces , and those toilettes for which the British female has long been celebrated . 
Her presence used to excruciate Osborne but go she would upon all parties of pleasure on which she heard her young friends were bent . 
It never entered into her thought but that they must be charmed with her company . 
She's been useful to you , my dear , George said to his wife , whom he could leave alone with less scruple when she had this society . 
But what a comfort it is that Rebecca's come you will have her for a friend , and we may get rid now of this damn'd Irishwoman . 
She favoured her friends with these and other opinions in a very loud tone of voice , and tossed about a great clattering fan she sported , with the most splendid complacency . 
That pretty woman in white is Amelia , General you are remarking all the pretty women , you naughty man . 
Only one , begad , in the world ! said the General , delighted , and the lady gave him a tap with a large bouquet which she had . 
, taking the compliment to herself , returned the salute with a gracious smile , which sent that unfortunate Dobbin shrieking out of the box again . 
At the end of the act , George was out of the box in a moment , and he was even going to pay his respects to Rebecca in her loge . 
He met Crawley in the lobby , however , where they exchanged a few sentences upon the occurrences of the last fortnight . 
You found my cheque all right at the agent's ? George said , with a knowing air . 
All right , my boy , Rawdon answered . 
Happy to give you your revenge . 
Governor come round ? Not yet , said George , but he will and you know I've some private fortune through my mother . 
Has Aunty relented ? Sent me twenty pound , damned old screw . 
When shall we have a meet ? The General dines out on Tuesday . 
Can't you come Tuesday ? I say , make Sedley cut off his moustache . 
What the devil does a civilian mean with a moustache and those infernal frogs to his coat ! By bye . 
Try and come on Tuesday and Rawdon was going off with two brilliant young gentlemen of fashion , who were , like himself , on the staff of a general officer . 
George was only half pleased to be asked to dinner on that particular day when the General was not to dine . 
George parted from them and strutted down the lobby to the General's box , the number of which he had carefully counted . 
How good of you to come . 
The General and I were moping together tete a tete . 
General , this is my Captain George of whom you heard me talk . 
Come home lately from the West Indies , I believe . 
Not seen much service in the late war . 
Quartered here , Captain George ? the General went on with killing haughtiness . 
Not Captain George , you stupid man Captain Osborne , Rebecca said . 
The General all the while was looking savagely from one to the other . 
Let ME go , I entreat you , George said . 
No , I will go to Amelia's box . 
Dear , sweet girl ! Give me your arm , Captain George and so saying , and with a nod to the General , she tripped into the lobby . 
He was thinking of his own plans , and lost in pompous admiration of his own irresistible powers of pleasing . 
Mrs. Rawdon saluted Jos , too , with the kindliest greeting she admired Mrs. O'Dowd's large Cairngorm brooch and superb Irish diamonds , and wouldn't believe that they were not from Golconda direct . 
She bustled , she chattered , she turned and twisted , and smiled upon one , and smirked on another , all in full view of the jealous opera glass opposite . 
, she skipped back to her own box , leaning on Captain Dobbin's arm this time . 
No , she would not have George's he must stay and talk to his dearest , best , little Amelia . 
She writhes and twists about like a snake . 
You ain't a man of the world , Dobbin . 
Dammy , look at her now , she's talked over Tufto in no time . 
Look how he's laughing ! Gad , what a shoulder she has ! Emmy , why didn't you have a bouquet ? Everybody has a bouquet . 
Faith , then , why didn't you BOY one ? Mrs. O'Dowd said and both Amelia and William Dobbin thanked her for this timely observation . 
But beyond this neither of the ladies rallied . 
Amelia was overpowered by the flash and the dazzle and the fashionable talk of her worldly rival . 
Even the O'Dowd was silent and subdued after Becky's brilliant apparition , and scarcely said a word more about Glenmalony all the evening . 
When do you intend to give up sermonising ? was the other's reply . 
What the deuce , man , are you alarmed about ? We play low I won last night . 
You don't suppose Crawley cheats ? With fair play it comes to pretty much the same thing at the year's end . 
But I don't think he could pay if he lost , Dobbin said and his advice met with the success which advice usually commands . 
Osborne and Crawley were repeatedly together now . 
General Tufto dined abroad almost constantly . 
which the aide de camp and his wife occupied in the hotel . 
Rebecca was doubly affectionate , of course , and would not take notice , in the least , of her friend's coolness . 
I think Emmy has become prouder since her father's name was in the since Mr. Sedley's MISFORTUNES , Rebecca said , softening the phrase charitably for George's ear . 
Pooh , jealousy ! answered George , all women are jealous . 
Will you dine here ? The dragon dines with the Commander in Chief . 
They say the French have crossed the frontier . 
We shall have a quiet dinner . 
George accepted the invitation , although his wife was a little ailing . 
They were now not quite six weeks married . 
Another woman was laughing or sneering at her expense , and he not angry . 
He was not even angry with himself , this good natured fellow . 
He rode with her whenever she was free . 
George was so occupied with his new acquaintances that he and William Dobbin were by no means so much together as formerly . 
George avoided him in public and in the regiment , and , as we see , did not like those sermons which his senior was disposed to inflict upon him . 
Our friend George was in the full career of the pleasures of Vanity Fair . 
A certain ball which a noble Duchess gave at Brussels on the th of June in the above named year is historical . 
Jos and Mrs. O'Dowd , who were panting to be asked , strove in vain to procure tickets but others of our friends were more lucky . 
Mr. and Mrs. Rawdon , finally , were of course invited as became the friends of a General commanding a cavalry brigade . 
Her thoughts were not of the pleasantest , and nobody except honest Dobbin came to disturb them . 
, Mrs. Rawdon Crawley's debut was , on the contrary , very brilliant . 
Her face was radiant her dress perfection . 
Numbers of the men she knew already , and the dandies thronged round her . 
As for the ladies , it was whispered among them that Rawdon had run away with her from out of a convent , and that she was a relation of the Montmorency family . 
She spoke French so perfectly that there might be some truth in this report , and it was agreed that her manners were fine , and her air distingue . 
Fifty would be partners thronged round her at once , and pressed to have the honour to dance with her . 
But she said she was engaged , and only going to dance very little and made her way at once to the place where Emmy sate quite unnoticed , and dismally unhappy . 
And so , to finish the poor child at once , Mrs. Rawdon ran and greeted affectionately her dearest Amelia , and began forthwith to patronise her . 
She found fault with her friend's dress , and her hairdresser , and wondered how she could be so chaussee , and vowed that she must send her corsetiere the next morning . 
She vowed that it was a delightful ball that there was everybody that every one knew , and only a VERY few nobodies in the whole room . 
George , who had left Emmy on her bench on entering the ball room , very soon found his way back when Rebecca was by her dear friend's side . 
Becky was just lecturing Mrs. Osborne upon the follies which her husband was committing . 
For God's sake , stop him from gambling , my dear , she said , or he will ruin himself . 
He and Rawdon are playing at cards every night , and you know he is very poor , and Rawdon will win every shilling from him if he does not take care . 
Where have you been , wretch ? Here is Emmy crying her eyes out for you . 
Are you coming to fetch me for the quadrille ? And she left her bouquet and shawl by Amelia's side , and tripped off with George to dance . 
Women only know how to wound so . 
There is a poison on the tips of their little shafts , which stings a thousand times more than a man's blunter weapon . 
Our poor Emmy , who had never hated , never sneered all her life , was powerless in the hands of her remorseless little enemy . 
George danced with Rebecca twice or thrice how many times Amelia scarcely knew . 
It is curious , when a man is bent upon play , by what clumsy rogues he will allow himself to be cheated , Dobbin said and Emmy said , Indeed . 
She was thinking of something else . 
It was not the loss of the money that grieved her . 
At last George came back for Rebecca's shawl and flowers . 
She did not even condescend to come back and say good bye to Amelia . 
The poor girl let her husband come and go without saying a word , and her head fell on her breast . 
Dobbin had been called away , and was whispering deep in conversation with the General of the division , his friend , and had not seen this last parting . 
George went away then with the bouquet but when he gave it to the owner , there lay a note , coiled like a snake among the flowers . 
Rebecca's eye caught it at once . 
She had been used to deal with notes in early life . 
She put out her hand and took the nosegay . 
He saw by her eyes as they met , that she was aware what she should find there . 
Her husband hurried her away , still too intent upon his own thoughts , seemingly , to take note of any marks of recognition which might pass between his friend and his wife . 
These were , however , but trifling . 
Rebecca gave George her hand with one of her usual quick knowing glances , and made a curtsey and walked away . 
His wife saw the one part at least of the bouquet scene . 
William , she said , suddenly clinging to Dobbin , who was near her , you've always been very kind to me I'm I'm not well . 
She did not know she called him by his Christian name , as George was accustomed to do . 
He went away with her quickly . 
Her lodgings were hard by and they threaded through the crowd without , where everything seemed to be more astir than even in the ball room within . 
Osborne meanwhile , wild with elation , went off to a play table , and began to bet frantically . 
Everything succeeds with me to night , he said . 
Here , as he was rattling away to the people around , laughing loudly and wild with spirits , Dobbin found him . 
He had been to the card tables to look there for his friend . 
Dobbin looked as pale and grave as his comrade was flushed and jovial . 
''Hullo , Dob ! Come and drink , old Dob ! The Duke's wine is famous . 
Give me some more , you sir and he held out a trembling glass for the liquor . 
Come out , George , said Dobbin , still gravely don't drink . 
Drink ! there's nothing like it . 
Drink yourself , and light up your lantern jaws , old boy . 
The enemy has passed the Sambre , William said , and our left is already engaged . 
We are to march in three hours . 
Away went George , his nerves quivering with excitement at the news so long looked for , so sudden when it came . 
In those few weeks he had frightfully dissipated his little capital . 
How wild and reckless he had been ! Should any mischance befall him what was then left for her ? How unworthy he was of her . 
Why had he married her ? He was not fit for marriage . 
Why had he disobeyed his father , who had been always so generous to him ? Hope , remorse , ambition , tenderness , and selfish regret filled his heart . 
He sate down and wrote to his father , remembering what he had said once before , when he was engaged to fight a duel . 
Dawn faintly streaked the sky as he closed this farewell letter . 
He sealed it , and kissed the superscription . 
He thought how he had deserted that generous father , and of the thousand kindnesses which the stern old man had done him . 
He had looked into Amelia's bedroom when he entered she lay quiet , and her eyes seemed closed , and he was glad that she was asleep . 
She had been awake when he first entered her room , but had kept her eyes closed , so that even her wakefulness should not seem to reproach him . 
George came in and looked at her again , entering still more softly . 
Two fair arms closed tenderly round his neck as he stooped down . 
I am awake , George , the poor child said , with a sob fit to break the little heart that nestled so closely by his own . 
In the first place , her father's fortune was swept down with that fatal news . 
All his speculations had of late gone wrong with the luckless old gentleman . 
Ventures had failed merchants had broken funds had risen when he calculated they would fall . 
What need to particularize ? If success is rare and slow , everybody knows how quick and easy ruin is . 
Old Sedley had kept his own sad counsel . 
She's not happy , the mother went on . 
I've no patience with the airs of those people . 
The girls have not been in the house these three weeks and George has been twice in town without coming . 
Edward Dale saw him at the Opera . 
Edward would marry her I'm sure and there's Captain Dobbin who , I think , would only I hate all army men . 
Such a dandy as George has become . 
With his military airs , indeed ! We must show some folks that we're as good as they . 
Only give Edward Dale any encouragement , and you'll see . 
He seized her in his arms , and said with a hasty voice , We're ruined , Mary . 
We've got the world to begin over again , dear . 
It's best that you should know all , and at once . 
As he spoke , he trembled in every limb , and almost fell . 
He thought the news would have overpowered his wife his wife , to whom he had never said a hard word . 
But it was he that was the most moved , sudden as the shock was to her . 
When he sank back into his seat , it was the wife that took the office of consoler . 
My God , my God , it will break Emmy's heart , she said . 
The father had forgotten the poor girl . 
She was lying , awake and unhappy , overhead . 
In the midst of friends , home , and kind parents , she was alone . 
She had no confidante , so to speak , ever since she had anything to confide . 
She could not tell the old mother her doubts and cares the would be sisters seemed every day more strange to her . 
And she had misgivings and fears which she dared not acknowledge to herself , though she was always secretly brooding over them . 
Her heart tried to persist in asserting that George Osborne was worthy and faithful to her , though she knew otherwise . 
How many a thing had she said , and got no echo from him . 
How many suspicions of selfishness and indifference had she to encounter and obstinately overcome . 
To whom could the poor little martyr tell these daily struggles and tortures ? Her hero himself only half understood her . 
She did not dare to own that the man she loved was her inferior or to feel that she had given her heart away too soon . 
Given once , the pure bashful maiden was too modest , too tender , too trustful , too weak , too much woman to recall it . 
We are Turks with the affections of our women and have made them subscribe to our doctrine too . 
We let their bodies go abroad liberally enough , with smiles and ringlets and pink bonnets to disguise them instead of veils and yakmaks . 
We are not going to follow the worthy old stockbroker through those last pangs and agonies of ruin through which he passed before his commercial demise befell . 
They declared him at the Stock Exchange he was absent from his house of business his bills were protested his act of bankruptcy formal . 
John Sedley had not the heart to review the domestic establishment who have appeared now and anon in our pages and of whom he was now forced by poverty to take leave . 
Amelia's maid was profuse in condolences , but went off quite resigned to better herself in a genteeler quarter of the town . 
Black Sambo , with the infatuation of his profession , determined on setting up a public house . 
Any one of these circumstances would account for the bitterness of Osborne's opposition . 
To account for your own hard heartedness and ingratitude in such a case , you are bound to prove the other party's crime . 
From a mere sense of consistency , a persecutor is bound to show that the fallen man is a villain otherwise he , the persecutor , is a wretch himself . 
And as a general rule , which may make all creditors who are inclined to be severe pretty comfortable in their minds , no men embarrassed are altogether honest , very likely . 
upon the verge of bankruptcy are ready to lay hold of any pretext for delay or of any money , so as to stave off the inevitable ruin a few days longer . 
Down with such dishonesty , says the creditor in triumph , and reviles his sinking enemy . 
You fool , why do you catch at a straw ? calm good sense says to the man that is drowning . 
You villain , why do you shrink from plunging into the irretrievable Gazette ? says prosperity to the poor devil battling in that black gulf . 
Everybody is right , I suppose , and the world is a rogue . 
Then Osborne had the intolerable sense of former benefits to goad and irritate him these are always a cause of hostility aggravated . 
At the meetings of creditors , then , he comported himself with a savageness and scorn towards Sedley , which almost succeeded in breaking the heart of that ruined bankrupt man . 
One of the great conditions of anger and hatred is , that you must tell and believe lies against the hated object , in order , as we said , to be consistent . 
Amelia took the news very palely and calmly . 
It was only the confirmation of the dark presages which had long gone before . 
It was the mere reading of the sentence of the crime she had long ago been guilty the crime of loving wrongly , too violently , against reason . 
She told no more of her thoughts now than she had before . 
She seemed scarcely more unhappy now when convinced all hope was over , than before when she felt but dared not confess that it was gone . 
So she changed from the large house to the small one without any mark or difference remained in her little room for the most part pined silently and died away day by day . 
I do not mean to say that all females are so . 
My dear Miss Bullock , I do not think your heart would break in this way . 
You are a strong minded young woman with proper principles . 
I do not venture to say that mine would it has suffered , and , it must be confessed , survived . 
But there are some souls thus gently constituted , thus frail , and delicate , and tender . 
Whenever old John Sedley thought of the affair between George and Amelia , or alluded to it , it was with bitterness almost as great as Mr. Osborne himself had shown . 
He cursed Osborne and his family as heartless , wicked , and ungrateful . 
She promised acquiescence , and tried to obey . 
She put up the two or three trinkets and , as for the letters , she drew them out of the place . 
where she kept them and read them over as if she did not know them by heart already but she could not part with them . 
That effort was too much for her she placed them back in her bosom again as you have seen a woman nurse a child that is dead . 
Young Amelia felt that she would die or lose her senses outright , if torn away from this last consolation . 
If they were short or selfish , what excuses she found for the writer ! It was over these few worthless papers that she brooded and brooded . 
She lived in her past life every letter seemed to recall some circumstance of it . 
And the business of her life , was to watch the corpse of Love . 
To death she looked with inexpressible longing . 
Then , she thought , I shall always be able to follow him . 
I am not praising her conduct or setting her up as a model for Miss Bullock to imitate . 
Miss B. knows how to regulate her feelings better than this poor little creature . 
A long engagement is a partnership which one party is free to keep or to break , but which involves all the capital of the other . 
Be cautious then , young ladies be wary how you engage . 
Be shy of loving frankly never tell all you feel , or , feel very little . 
See the consequences of being prematurely honest and confiding , and mistrust yourselves and everybody . 
Get yourselves married as they do in France , where the lawyers are the bridesmaids and confidantes . 
At any rate , never have any feelings which may make you uncomfortable , or make any promises which you cannot at any required moment command and withdraw . 
That is the way to get on , and be respected , and have a virtuous character in Vanity Fair . 
Such criminal imprudence Mrs. Smith never knew of such horrid familiarities Mrs. Brown had always condemned , and the end might be a warning to HER daughters . 
Captain Osborne , of course , could not marry a bankrupt's daughter , the Misses Dobbin said . 
It was quite enough to have been swindled by the father . 
As for that little Amelia , her folly had really passed all All what ? Captain Dobbin roared out . 
We can't fight you , Miss Jane said . 
Hadn't you better , now that Miss Sedley is free , propose for her yourself , William ? Miss Ann asked sarcastically . 
It would be a most eligible family connection . 
He ! he ! I marry her ! Dobbin said , blushing very much , and talking quick . 
If you are so ready , young ladies , to chop and change , do you suppose that she is ? Laugh and sneer at that angel . 
She can't hear it and she's miserable and unfortunate , and deserves to be laughed at . 
Go on joking , Ann . 
You're the wit of the family , and the others like to hear it . 
I must tell you again we're not in a barrack , William , Miss Ann remarked . 
In a barrack , by Jove I wish anybody in a barrack would say what you do , cried out this uproused British lion . 
I should like to hear a man breathe a word against her , by Jupiter . 
But men don't talk in this way , Ann it's only women , who get together and hiss , and shriek , and cackle . 
There , get away don't begin to cry . 
I only said you were a couple of geese , Will Dobbin said , perceiving Miss Ann's pink eyes were beginning to moisten as usual . 
Well , you're not geese , you're swans anything you like , only do , do leave Miss Sedley alone . 
according to their own notions of right and wrong . 
It is a mercy , Mamma , that the regiment is ordered abroad , the girls said . 
THIS danger , at any rate , is spared our brother . 
It was he that ruined the Bourbons and Mr. John Sedley . 
It was he whose arrival in his capital called up all France in arms to defend him there and all Europe to oust him . 
The news of Napoleon's escape and landing was received by the gallant th with a fiery delight and enthusiasm , which everybody can understand who knows that famous corps . 
Stubble and Spooney looked to get their companies without purchase . 
He was not , it must be confessed , very much cast down by good old Mr. Sedley's catastrophe . 
He tried his new uniform , which became him very handsomely , on the day when the first meeting of the creditors of the unfortunate gentleman took place . 
Money was always useful to this free handed young fellow , and he took it without many words . 
The bills were up in the Sedley house , where he had passed so many , many happy hours . 
shining white in the moon . 
That comfortable home was shut , then , upon Amelia and her parents where had they taken refuge ? The thought of their ruin affected him not a little . 
He was very melancholy that night in the coffee room at the Slaughters' and drank a good deal , as his comrades remarked there . 
She she's sent me back some things I gave her some damned trinkets . 
It's all over , said he , with a groan of sickening remorse . 
Look , Will , you may read it if you like . 
I think , I know you feel as much as I do the blow which has come upon us . 
It is I that absolve you from an engagement which is impossible in our present misery . 
I am sure you had no share in it , or in the cruel suspicions of Mr. Osborne , which are the hardest of all our griefs to bear . 
I pray God to strengthen me to bear this and other calamities , and to bless you always . 
A. I shall often play upon the piano your piano . 
It was like you to send it . 
Dobbin was very soft hearted . 
The sight of women and children in pain always used to melt him . 
The idea of Amelia broken hearted and lonely tore that good natured soul with anguish . 
And he broke out into an emotion , which anybody who likes may consider unmanly . 
He swore that Amelia was an angel , to which Osborne said aye with all his heart . 
And for himself , he blushed with remorse and shame , as the remembrance of his own selfishness and indifference contrasted with that perfect purity . 
For a while , glory , war , everything was forgotten , and the pair of friends talked about her only . 
Where are they ? There's no address to the note . 
And I I think I'll go upstairs , Mamma , for I'm not very strong . 
And with this , and a curtsey and a smile , the poor child went her way . 
The mother , as she led her up , cast back looks of anguish towards Dobbin . 
The good fellow wanted no such appeal . 
He loved her himself too fondly for that . 
Inexpressible grief , and pity , and terror pursued him , and he came away as if he was a criminal after seeing her . 
When Osborne heard that his friend had found her , he made hot and anxious inquiries regarding the poor child . 
How was she ? How did she look ? What did she say ? His comrade took his hand , and looked him in the face . 
George , she's dying , William Dobbin said and could speak no more . 
Emmy was much too sad to answer , or even to be aware of the attempts the other was making in her favour . 
Four hours after the talk between Dobbin and Osborne , this servant maid came into Amelia's room , where she sate as usual , brooding silently over her letters her little treasures . 
The girl , smiling , and looking arch and happy , made many trials to attract poor Emmy's attention , who , however , took no heed of her . 
Miss Emmy , said the girl . 
I'm coming , Emmy said , not looking round . 
There's a message , the maid went on . 
There's something somebody sure , here's a new letter for you don't be reading them old ones any more . 
And she gave her a letter , which Emmy took , and read . 
I must see you , the letter said . 
Dearest Emmy dearest love dearest wife , come to me . 
George and her mother were outside , waiting until she had read the letter . 
Who was the blundering idiot who said that fine words butter no parsnips ? Half the parsnips of society are served and rendered palatable with no other sauce . 
Nay , we know that substantial benefits often sicken some stomachs whereas , most will digest any amount of fine words , and be always eager for more of the same food . 
The different conduct of these two people is pointed out respectfully to the attention of persons commencing the world . 
Never lose a chance of saying a kind word . 
As Collingwood never saw a vacant place in his estate but he took an acorn out of his pocket and popped it in so deal with your compliments through life . 
An acorn costs nothing but it may sprout into a prodigious bit of timber . 
In a word , during Rawdon Crawley's prosperity , he was only obeyed with sulky acquiescence when his disgrace came , there was nobody to help or pity him . 
That he would consider himself beaten , after one defeat , and make no attempt to regain the position he had lost , Mrs. Bute Crawley never allowed herself to suppose . 
Mrs. Bute could not disguise from herself the fact that none of her party could so contribute to the pleasures of the town bred lady . 
My girls' singing , after that little odious governess's , I know is unbearable , the candid Rector's wife owned to herself . 
She always used to go to sleep when Martha and Louisa played their duets . 
Jim's stiff college manners and poor dear Bute's talk about his dogs and horses always annoyed her . 
She had the street laid knee deep with straw and the knocker put by with Mr. Bowls's plate . 
She insisted that the Doctor should call twice a day and deluged her patient with draughts every two hours . 
as she moved about the room on velvet paws like a cat . 
public into a sermon , when it is only a comedy that the reader pays his money to witness . 
Recollection of the best ordained banquets will scarcely cheer sick epicures . 
Reminiscences of the most becoming dresses and brilliant ball triumphs will go very little way to console faded beauties . 
morrow is in view , about which all of us must some day or other be speculating . 
She had all the particulars of that ugly quarrel with Captain Marker , in which Rawdon , wrong from the beginning , ended in shooting the Captain . 
Yes , if a man's character is to be abused , say what you will , there's nobody like a relation to do the business . 
Rebecca , too , being now a relative , came in for the fullest share of Mrs. Bute's kind inquiries . 
The friend of the Lexicographer had plenty of information to give . 
Miss Jemima was made to fetch the drawing master's receipts and letters . 
There were juvenile letters and petitions from Rebecca , too , in the collection , imploring aid for her father or declaring her own gratitude . 
Perhaps in Vanity Fair there are no better satires than letters . 
Take a bundle of your dear friend's of ten years back your dear friend whom you hate now . 
after a certain brief and proper interval . 
Those quacks and misanthropes who advertise indelible Japan ink should be made to perish along with their wicked discoveries . 
Of all these industrious researches Miss Crawley had the full benefit . 
Mrs. Rawdon Crawley was the daughter of an opera girl . 
She had been a model to the painters . 
She was brought up as became her mother's daughter . 
She drank gin with her father , c . 
She pointed out her sacrifices and their results one day to the constant apothecary , Mr. Clump . 
I never shrink from personal discomfort I never refuse to sacrifice myself . 
, but I will never quit it . 
Ah , Mr. Clump ! I fear , I know , that the couch needs spiritual as well as medical consolation . 
I would lay down my life for my duty , or for any member of my husband's family , Mrs. Bute interposed . 
Yes , Madam , if need were but we don't want Mrs Bute Crawley to be a martyr , Clump said gallantly . 
Dr Squills and myself have both considered Miss Crawley's case with every anxiety and care , as you may suppose . 
We see her low spirited and nervous family events have agitated her . 
Her nephew will come to perdition , Mrs. Crawley cried . 
Have agitated her and you arrived like a guardian angel , my dear Madam , a positive guardian angel , I assure you , to soothe her under the pressure of calamity . 
Squills and I were thinking that our amiable friend is not in such a state as renders confinement to her bed necessary . 
She is depressed , but this confinement perhaps adds to her depression . 
She should have change , fresh air , gaiety the most delightful remedies in the pharmacopoeia , Mr. Clump said , grinning and showing his handsome teeth . 
Persuade her to rise , dear Madam drag her from her couch and her low spirits insist upon her taking little drives . 
They will restore the roses too to your cheeks , if I may so speak to Mrs. Bute Crawley . 
, would cause her such a shock , that we should have to bring her back to bed again . 
She must not go out , Mr. Clump . 
She shall not go out as long as I remain to watch over her And as for my health , what matters it ? I give it cheerfully , sir . 
I sacrifice it at the altar of my duty . 
Upon my word , Madam , Mr. Clump now said bluntly , I won't answer for her life if she remains locked up in that dark room . 
Gracious mercy ! is her life in danger ? Mrs. Bute cried . 
Why , why , Mr. Clump , did you not inform me sooner ? The night before , Mr. Clump and Dr . 
, regarding Miss Crawley and her case . 
What a little harpy that woman from Hampshire is , Clump , Squills remarked , that has seized upon old Tilly Crawley . 
What a fool Rawdon Crawley has been , Clump replied , to go and marry a governess ! There was something about the girl , too . 
Green eyes , fair skin , pretty figure , famous frontal development , Squills remarked . 
There is something about her and Crawley was a fool , Squills . 
A d fool always was , the apothecary replied . 
Of course the old girl will fling him over , said the physician , and after a pause added , She'll cut up well , I suppose . 
Cut up , says Clump with a grin I wouldn't have her cut up for two hundred a year . 
That Hampshire woman will kill her in two months , Clump , my boy , if she stops about her , Dr . 
Old woman full feeder nervous subject palpitation of the heart pressure on the brain apoplexy off she goes . 
Get her up , Clump get her out or I wouldn't give many weeks' purchase for your two hundred a year . 
And it was acting upon this hint that the worthy apothecary spoke with so much candour to Mrs. Bute Crawley . 
Having the old lady under her hand in bed with nobody near , Mrs. Bute had made more than one assault upon her , to induce her to alter her will . 
Whither to take her was the next puzzle . 
The only place where she is not likely to meet those odious Rawdons is at church , and that won't amuse her , Mrs. Bute justly felt . 
We must go and visit our beautiful suburbs of London , she then thought . 
Perhaps Mrs. Bute pulled the string unnecessarily tight . 
After a brief space , she rebelled against Highgate and Hornsey utterly . 
She would go into the Park . 
Mrs. Bute knew they would meet the abominable Rawdon there , and she was right . 
One day in the ring , Rawdon's stanhope came in sight Rebecca was seated by him . 
In the enemy's equipage Miss Crawley occupied her usual place , with Mrs. Bute on her left , the poodle and Miss Briggs on the back seat . 
Rawdon himself trembled , and his face grew purple behind his dyed mustachios . 
Only old Briggs was moved in the other carriage , and cast her great eyes nervously towards her old friends . 
Miss Crawley's bonnet was resolutely turned towards the Serpentine . 
Mrs. Bute happened to be in ecstasies with the poodle , and was calling him a little darling , and a sweet little zoggy , and a pretty pet . 
The carriages moved on , each in his line . 
Done , by Jove , Rawdon said to his wife . 
Try once more , Rawdon , Rebecca answered . 
Could not you lock your wheels into theirs , dearest ? Rawdon had not the heart for that manoeuvre . 
When the carriages met again , he stood up in his stanhope he raised his hand ready to doff his hat he looked with all his eyes . 
But this time Miss Crawley's face was not turned away she and Mrs. Bute looked him full in the face , and cut their nephew pitilessly . 
He sank back in his seat with an oath , and striking out of the ring , dashed away desperately homewards . 
It was a gallant and decided triumph for Mrs. Bute . 
of his young mistress by the intervention of his friend honest William . 
This prostration and sweet unrepining obedience exquisitely touched and flattered George Osborne . 
He saw a slave before him in that simple yielding faithful creature , and his soul within him thrilled secretly somehow at the knowledge of his power . 
All her hopes and feelings , which were dying and withering , this her sun having been removed from her , bloomed again and at once , its light being restored . 
The honest Irish maid servant , delighted with the change , asked leave to kiss the face that had grown all of a sudden so rosy . 
Amelia put her arms round the girl's neck and kissed her with all her heart , like a child . 
He is the greatest and best of men . 
And the fact is , that George thought he was one of the generousest creatures alive and that he was making a tremendous sacrifice in marrying this young creature . 
The fiendish ingratitude of that man , she was sure , had broken Mr. S. 's heart and as for a marriage , he would never , never , never , never consent . 
They must run away together , Ma'am , Dobbin said , laughing , and follow the example of Captain Rawdon Crawley , and Miss Emmy's friend the little governess . 
Was it possible ? Well she never ! Mrs. Sedley was all excitement about this news . 
She wished that Blenkinsop were here to hear it Blenkinsop always mistrusted that Miss Sharp . 
What an escape Jos had had ! and she described the already well known love passages between Rebecca and the Collector of Boggley Wollah . 
He has forbidden the match peremptorily , Dobbin thought . 
He knew what a savage determined man Osborne was , and how he stuck by his word . 
The only chance George has of reconcilement , argued his friend , is by distinguishing himself in the coming campaign . 
If he dies they both go together . 
It was these weighty considerations which made him think too that the marriage should take place as quickly as possible . 
Was he anxious himself , I wonder , to have it over . 
? as people , when death has occurred , like to press forward the funeral , or when a parting is resolved upon , hasten it . 
It is certain that Mr. Dobbin , having taken the matter in hand , was most extraordinarily eager in the conduct of it . 
He urged on George the necessity of immediate action he showed the chances of reconciliation with his father , which a favourable mention of his name in the Gazette must bring about . 
If need were he would go himself and brave both the fathers in the business . 
At all events , he besought George to go through with it before the orders came , which everybody expected , for the departure of the regiment from England on foreign service . 
My beloved reader has no doubt in the course of his experience been waylaid by many such a luckless companion . 
His coat , that used to be so glossy and trim , was white at the seams , and the buttons showed the copper . 
His face had fallen in , and was unshorn his frill and neckcloth hung limp under his bagging waistcoat . 
What can we do for you . 
How is Mrs. Sedley , sir ? I hope she's quite well . 
My wife will be very happy to see her ladyship , Sedley replied , pulling out his papers . 
I've a very kind letter here from your father , sir , and beg my respectful compliments to him . 
The old gentleman's eyes were wandering as he spoke , and he was thinking of something else , as he sate thrumming on his papers and fumbling at the worn red tape . 
That's why I'm here , William . 
That's why my name's in the Gazette . 
Why , sir ? because I trusted the Emperor of Russia and the Prince Regent . 
Look what the funds were on the st of March what the French fives were when I bought for the count . 
And what they're at now . 
There was collusion , sir , or that villain never would have escaped . 
Where was the English Commissioner who allowed him to get away ? He ought to be shot , sir brought to a court martial , and shot , by Jove . 
We are going to hunt him out , sir the Duke's in Belgium already , and we expect marching orders every day . 
Bring back the villain's head , sir . 
Shoot the coward down , sir , Sedley roared . 
Dobbin was not a little affected by the sight of this once kind old friend , crazed almost with misfortune and raving with senile anger . 
Pity the fallen gentleman you to whom money and fair repute are the chiefest good and so , surely , are they in Vanity Fair . 
Yes , he continued , there are some vipers that you warm , and they sting you afterwards . 
There are some beggars that you put on horseback , and they're the first to ride you down . 
You know whom I mean , William Dobbin , my boy . 
I have heard something of this , sir , from my friend George , Dobbin said , anxious to come to his point . 
The quarrel between you and his father has cut him up a great deal , sir . 
Indeed , I'm the bearer of a message from him . 
O , THAT'S your errand , is it ? cried the old man , jumping up . 
What ! perhaps he condoles with me , does he ? Very kind of him , the stiff backed prig , with his dandified airs and West End swagger . 
He's hankering about my house , is he still ? If my son had the courage of a man , he'd shoot him . 
He's as big a villain as his father . 
I won't have his name mentioned in my house . 
I curse the day that ever I let him into it and I'd rather see my daughter dead at my feet than married to him . 
His father's harshness is not George's fault , sir . 
Your daughter's love for him is as much your doing as his . 
It's I that forbid it . 
That family and mine are separated for ever . 
I'm fallen low , but not so low as that no , no . 
And so you may tell the whole race son , and father and sisters , and all . 
There's no reason she should die or live miserably because you are wrong headed . 
To my thinking , she's just as much married as if the banns had been read in all the churches in London . 
It evidently amused the old gentleman . 
The idea of hitting his enemy Osborne such a blow soothed , perhaps , the old gentleman and , their colloquy presently ending , he and Dobbin parted pretty good friends . 
My sisters say she has diamonds as big as pigeons' eggs , George said , laughing . 
How they must set off her complexion ! A perfect illumination it must be when her jewels are on her neck . 
Her jet black hair is as curly as Sambo's . 
I dare say she wore a nose ring when she went to court and with a plume of feathers in her top knot she would look a perfect Belle Sauvage . 
She had a mansion in Surrey , and a house in Portland Place . 
The name of the rich West India heiress had been mentioned with applause in the Morning Post . 
Mrs. Haggistoun , Colonel Haggistoun's widow , her relative , chaperoned her , and kept her house . 
, and the girls had made the most cordial advances to her , which the heiress had received with great good humour . 
An orphan in her position with her money so interesting ! the Misses Osborne said . 
The girls Christian named each other at once . 
You should have seen her dress for court , Emmy , Osborne cried , laughing . 
She came to my sisters to show it off , before she was presented in state by my Lady Binkie , the Haggistoun's kinswoman . 
She's related to every one , that Haggistoun . 
Her diamonds blazed out like Vauxhall on the night we were there . 
Diamonds and mahogany , my dear ! think what an advantageous contrast and the white feathers in her hair I mean in her wool . 
She had earrings like chandeliers you might have lighted 'em up , by Jove and a yellow satin train that streeled after her like the tail of a cornet . 
Why the Black Princess , though she has only just left school , must be two or three and twenty . 
Her father was a German Jew a slave owner they say connected with the Cannibal Islands in some way or other . 
He died last year , and Miss Pinkerton has finished her education . 
I wish they would have loved me , said Emmy , wistfully . 
They were always very cold to me . 
My dear child , they would have loved you if you had had two hundred thousand pounds , George replied . 
That is the way in which they have been brought up . 
Ours is a ready money society . 
We live among bankers and City big wigs , and be hanged to them , and every man , as he talks to you , is jingling his guineas in his pocket . 
Curse the whole pack of money grubbing vulgarians ! I fall asleep at their great heavy dinners . 
I feel ashamed in my father's great stupid parties . 
I've been accustomed to live with gentlemen , and men of the world and fashion , Emmy , not with a parcel of turtle fed tradesmen . 
You are the only lady . 
Amelia admired Mr. Crawley very much , too , for this and trusted Rebecca would be happy with him , and hoped Jos would be consoled . 
And so the pair went on prattling , as in quite early days . 
Beyond the first smile of recognition and even that was an hypocrisy , for she thought his arrival rather provoking Miss Sedley did not once notice Dobbin during his visit . 
But he was content , so that he saw her happy and thankful to have been the means of making her so . 
I'm a plain , simple , humble British merchant an honest one , as my respected friends Hulker and Bullock will vouch , who were the correspondents of your late lamented father . 
I'm a frank man , and I like you . 
A glass of Champagne ! Hicks , Champagne to Miss Swartz . 
There is little doubt that old Osborne believed all he said , and that the girls were quite earnest in their protestations of affection for Miss Swartz . 
People in Vanity Fair fasten on to rich folks quite naturally . 
if the simple look benevolently on money , how much more do your old worldlings regard it ! Their affections rush out to meet and welcome money . 
Their kind sentiments awaken spontaneously towards the interesting possessors of it . 
I know some respectable people who don't consider themselves at liberty to indulge in friendship for any individual who has not a certain competency , or place in society . 
They give a loose to their feelings on proper occasions . 
Old Osborne thought she would be a great match , too , for his son . 
He should leave the army he should go into Parliament he should cut a figure in the fashion and in the state . 
He worked in the City and on 'Change , until he knew everything relating to the fortune of the heiress , how her money was placed , and where her estates lay . 
, only he was booked to Maria Osborne . 
But not being able to secure her as a wife , the disinterested Fred quite approved of her as a sister in law . 
Let George cut in directly and win her , was his advice . 
When the elder Osborne gave what he called a hint , there was no possibility for the most obtuse to mistake his meaning . 
He called kicking a footman downstairs a hint to the latter to leave his service . 
This imperative hint disturbed George a good deal . 
He was in the very first enthusiasm and delight of his second courtship of Amelia , which was inexpressibly sweet to him . 
The contrast of her manners and appearance with those of the heiress , made the idea of a union with the latter appear doubly ludicrous and odious . 
On the first day when his father formally gave him the hint that he was to place his affections at Miss Swartz's feet , George temporised with the old gentleman . 
You should have thought of the matter sooner , sir , he said . 
It can't be done now , when we're expecting every day to go on foreign service . 
So that you would have me shown up as a coward , sir , and our name dishonoured for the sake of Miss Swartz's money , George interposed . 
If you want for money , call upon Mr. Chopper . 
Thus a new obstacle was in George's way , to interfere with his plans regarding Amelia and about which he and Dobbin had more than one confidential consultation . 
His friend's opinion respecting the line of conduct which he ought to pursue , we know already . 
And as for Osborne , when he was once bent on a thing , a fresh obstacle or two only rendered him the more resolute . 
His whiskers had made an impression upon her , on the very first night she beheld them at the ball at Messrs . 
Hulkers and , as we know , she was not the first woman who had been charmed by them . 
George had an air at once swaggering and melancholy , languid and fierce . 
He looked like a man who had passions , secrets , and private harrowing griefs and adventures . 
His voice was rich and deep . 
He trampled over all the young bucks of his father's circle , and was the hero among those third rate men . 
Some few sneered at him and hated him . 
Some , like Dobbin , fanatically admired him . 
And his whiskers had begun to do their work , and to curl themselves round the affections of Miss Swartz . 
Whenever there was a chance of meeting him in Russell Square , that simple and good natured young woman was quite in a flurry to see her dear Misses Osborne . 
She went to great expenses in new gowns , and bracelets , and bonnets , and in prodigious feathers . 
She adorned her person with her utmost skill to please the Conqueror , and exhibited all her simple accomplishments to win his favour . 
During these delectable entertainments , Miss Wirt and the chaperon sate by , and conned over the peerage , and talked about the nobility . 
The girls , after vain attempts to engage him in conversation , talked about fashions and the last drawing room until he was perfectly sick of their chatter . 
He contrasted their behaviour with little Emmy's their shrill voices with her tender ringing tones their attitudes and their elbows and their starch , with her humble soft movements and modest graces . 
Poor Swartz was seated in a place where Emmy had been accustomed to sit . 
Her bejewelled hands lay sprawling in her amber satin lap . 
Her tags and ear rings twinkled , and her big eyes rolled about . 
She was doing nothing with perfect contentment , and thinking herself charming . 
Anything so becoming as the satin the sisters had never seen . 
Dammy , George said to a confidential friend , she looked like a China doll , which has nothing to do all day but to grin and wag its head . 
By Jove , Will , it was all I I could do to prevent myself from throwing the sofa cushion at her . 
He restrained that exhibition of sentiment , however . 
The sisters began to play the Battle of Prague . 
Stop that d thing , George howled out in a fury from the sofa . 
You play us something , Miss Swartz , do . 
Sing something , anything but the Battle of Prague . 
Shall I sing 'Blue Eyed Mary' or the air from the Cabinet ? Miss Swartz asked . 
That sweet thing from the Cabinet , the sisters said . 
We've had that , replied the misanthrope on the sofa I can sing 'Fluvy du Tajy , Swartz said , in a meek voice , if I had the words . 
It was the last of the worthy young woman's collection . 
O , 'Fleuve du Tage , Miss Maria cried we have the song , and went off to fetch the book in which it was . 
Lor ! cried Miss Swartz , spinning swiftly round on the music stool , is it my Amelia ? Amelia that was at Miss P. 's at Hammersmith ? I know it is . 
and Tell me about her where is she ? Don't mention her , Miss Maria Osborne said hastily . 
Her family has disgraced itself . 
Her father cheated Papa , and as for her , she is never to be mentioned HERE . 
This was Miss Maria's return for George's rudeness about the Battle of Prague . 
Are you a friend of Amelia's ? George said , bouncing up . 
God bless you for it , Miss Swartz . 
Don't believe what , the girls say . 
SHE'S not to blame at any rate . 
She's the best You know you're not to speak about her , George , cried Jane . 
Who's to prevent me ? George cried out . 
I will speak of her . 
If you like her , go and see her , Miss Swartz she wants friends now and I say , God bless everybody who befriends her . 
Anybody who speaks kindly of her is my friend anybody who speaks against her is my enemy . 
Thank you , Miss Swartz and he went up and wrung her hand . 
George ! George ! one of the sisters cried imploringly . 
I say , George said fiercely , I thank everybody who loves Amelia Sed He stopped . 
Old Osborne was in the room with a face livid with rage , and eyes like hot coals . 
He felt that the tussle was coming . 
Mrs. Haggistoun , let me take you down to dinner , he said . 
Give your arm to Miss Swartz , George , and they marched . 
Old Osborne , on the contrary , was nervous , and drank much . 
He floundered in his conversation with the ladies , his neighbours George's coolness only rendering him more angry . 
The old man also took a supply of ammunition , but his decanter clinked against the glass as he tried to fill it . 
After giving a great heave , and with a purple choking face , he then began . 
Dare isn't a word to be used to a Captain in the British Army . 
I shall say what I like to my son , sir . 
I can cut him off with a shilling if I like . 
I can make him a beggar if I like . 
I WILL say what I like , the elder said . 
I'm a gentleman though I AM your son , sir , George answered haughtily . 
Whenever the lad assumed his haughty manner , it always created either great awe or great irritation in the parent . 
My father didn't give me the education you have had , nor the advantages you have had , nor the money you have had . 
But it wasn't considered the part of a gentleman , in MY time , for a man to insult his father . 
If I'd done any such thing , mine would have kicked me downstairs , sir . 
I never insulted you , sir . 
I said I begged you to remember your son was a gentleman as well as yourself . 
You tell it me often enough , sir . 
There's no fear of my forgetting it . 
I wish you'd remember other things as well , sir , the sire answered . 
! burst out his father with a screaming oath that the name of those Sedleys never be mentioned here , sir not one of the whole damned lot of 'em , sir . 
It wasn't I , sir , that introduced Miss Sedley's name . 
It was my sisters who spoke ill of her to Miss Swartz and by Jove I'll defend her wherever I go . 
Nobody shall speak lightly of that name in my presence . 
Our family has done her quite enough injury already , I think , and may leave off reviling her now she's down . 
I'll shoot any man but you who says a word against her . 
Go on , sir , go on , the old gentleman said , his eyes starting out of his head . 
Go on about what , sir ? about the way in which we've treated that angel of a girl ? Who told me to love her ? It was your doing . 
I might have chosen elsewhere , and looked higher , perhaps , than your society but I obeyed you . 
And now that her heart's mine you give me orders to fling it away , and punish her , kill her perhaps for the faults of other people . 
There shall be no beggar marriages in my family . 
Will you do as I tell you , once for all , sir , or will you not ? Marry that mulatto woman ? George said , pulling up his shirt collars . 
I don't like the colour , sir . 
Ask the black that sweeps opposite Fleet Market , sir . 
I'm not going to marry a Hottentot Venus . 
I've done it , said George , coming into the Slaughters' an hour afterwards , looking very pale . 
What , my boy ? says Dobbin . 
George told what had passed between his father and himself . 
I'll marry her to morrow , he said with an oath . 
I love her more every day , Dobbin . 
No communication passed between father and son for some days . 
His cover was laid as usual every day , and perhaps the old gentleman rather anxiously expected him but he never came . 
Some one inquired at the Slaughters' regarding him , where it was said that he and his friend Captain Dobbin had left town . 
Here was his friend Captain Dobbin , in blue and brass too , having abandoned the military frock and French grey trousers , which were the usual coverings of his lanky person . 
Dobbin had been in the coffee room for an hour or more . 
He had tried all the papers , but could not read them . 
he balanced the tea spoon dexterously on the milk jug upset it , c . 
Some of his comrades , gentlemen who used the room , joked him about the splendour of his costume and his agitation of manner . 
a piece of cake when that event took place . 
At length Captain Osborne made his appearance , very smartly dressed , but very pale and agitated as we have said . 
He wiped his pale face with a large yellow bandanna pocket handkerchief that was prodigiously scented . 
He shook hands with Dobbin , looked at the clock , and told John , the waiter , to bring him some curacao . 
Of this cordial he swallowed off a couple of glasses with nervous eagerness . 
His friend asked with some interest about his health . 
Couldn't get a wink of sleep till daylight , Dob , said he . 
Got up at nine , and went down to the Hummums for a bath . 
I say , Dob , I feel just as I did on the morning I went out with Rocket at Quebec . 
So do I , William responded . 
I was a deuced deal more nervous than you were that morning . 
You made a famous breakfast , I remember . 
You're a good old fellow , Will . 
I'll drink your health , old boy , and farewell to No , no two glasses are enough , Dobbin interrupted him . 
Here , take away the liqueurs , John . 
Have some cayenne pepper with your fowl . 
Make haste though , for it is time we were there . 
It was about half an hour from twelve when this brief meeting and colloquy took place between the two captains . 
We shall find a better trap than this at the church door , says he that's a comfort . 
And the carriage drove on , taking the road down Piccadilly , where Apsley House and St . 
A chariot was in waiting with four horses likewise a coach of the kind called glass coaches . 
Only a very few idlers were collected on account of the dismal rain . 
Hang it ! said George , I said only a pair . 
Here you are , said our old friend , Jos Sedley , coming forward . 
You're five minutes late , George , my boy . 
What a day , eh ? Demmy , it's like the commencement of the rainy season in Bengal . 
But you'll find my carriage is watertight . 
Come along , my mother and Emmy are in the vestry . 
He was fatter than ever . 
His shirt collars were higher his face was redder his shirt frill flaunted gorgeously out of his variegated waistcoat . 
In a word , George had thrown the great cast . 
He was going to be married . 
Hence his pallor and nervousness his sleepless night and agitation in the morning . 
I have heard people who have gone through the same thing own to the same emotion . 
After three or four ceremonies , you get accustomed to it , no doubt but the first dip , everybody allows , is awful . 
, and wore a straw bonnet with a pink ribbon over the bonnet she had a veil of white Chantilly lace , a gift from Mr. Joseph Sedley , her brother . 
As the service went on , Mrs. Sedley sat and whimpered a great deal in a pew , consoled by the Irish maid servant and Mrs. Clapp from the lodgings . 
Old Sedley would not be present . 
Jos acted for his father , giving away the bride , whilst Captain Dobbin stepped up as groomsman to his friend George . 
There was nobody in the church besides the officiating persons and the small marriage party and their attendants . 
The two valets sat aloof superciliously . 
The rain came rattling down on the windows . 
In the intervals of the service you heard it , and the sobbing of old Mrs. Sedley in the pew . 
The parson's tones echoed sadly through the empty walls . 
Osborne's I will was sounded in very deep bass . 
Emmy's response came fluttering up to her lips from her heart , but was scarcely heard by anybody except Captain Dobbin . 
It's your turn , William , says he , putting his hand fondly upon Dobbin's shoulder and Dobbin went up and touched Amelia on the cheek . 
Then they went into the vestry and signed the register . 
God bless you , Old Dobbin , George said , grasping him by the hand , with something very like moisture glistening in his eyes . 
William replied only by nodding his head . 
His heart was too full to say much . 
Write directly , and come down as soon as you can , you know , Osborne said . 
After Mrs. Sedley had taken an hysterical adieu of her daughter , the pair went off to the carriage . 
Get out of the way , you little devils , George cried to a small crowd of damp urchins , that were hanging about the chapel door . 
The rain drove into the bride and bridegroom's faces as they passed to the chariot . 
The postilions' favours draggled on their dripping jackets . 
The few children made a dismal cheer , as the carriage , splashing mud , drove away . 
William Dobbin stood in the church porch , looking at it , a queer figure . 
The small crew of spectators jeered him . 
He was not thinking about them or their laughter . 
Come home and have some tiffin , Dobbin , a voice cried behind him as a pudgy hand was laid on his shoulder , and the honest fellow's reverie was interrupted . 
But the Captain had no heart to go a feasting with Jos Sedley . 
He put the weeping old lady and her attendants into the carriage along with Jos , and left them without any farther words passing . 
This carriage , too , drove away , and the urchins gave another sarcastical cheer . 
Here , you little beggars , Dobbin said , giving some sixpences amongst them , and then went off by himself through the rain . 
They were married , and happy , he prayed God . 
Never since he was a boy had he felt so miserable and so lonely . 
He longed with a heart sick yearning for the first few days to be over , that he might see her again . 
Jos was even more splendid at Brighton than he had been at his sister's marriage . 
He had brilliant under waistcoats , any one of which would have set up a moderate buck . 
He sported a military frock coat , ornamented with frogs , knobs , black buttons , and meandering embroidery . 
What shall we do , boys , till the ladies return ? the buck asked . 
The ladies were out to Rottingdean in his carriage on a drive . 
Let's have a game at billiards , one of his friends said the tall one , with lacquered mustachios . 
No , dammy no , Captain , Jos replied , rather alarmed . 
No billiards to day , Crawley , my boy yesterday was enough . 
You play very well , said Crawley , laughing . 
Don't he , Osborne ? How well he made that five stroke , eh ? Famous , Osborne said . 
Jos is a devil of a fellow at billiards , and at everything else , too . 
I wish there were any tiger hunting about here ! we might go and kill a few before dinner . 
Tell us that story about the tiger hunt , and the way you did for him in the jungle it's a wonderful story that , Crawley . 
Here George Osborne gave a yawn . 
It's rather slow work , said he , down here what shall we do ? Shall we go and look at some horses that Snaffler's just brought from Lewes fair ? Crawley said . 
Suppose we go and have some jellies at Dutton's , and the rogue Jos , willing to kill two birds with one stone . 
Devilish fine gal at Dutton's . 
Suppose we go and see the Lightning come in , it's just about time ? George said . 
This advice prevailing over the stables and the jelly , they turned towards the coach office to witness the Lightning's arrival . 
She checked the carriage as it neared the three gentlemen , after which exercise of authority she looked rather nervous , and then began to blush most absurdly . 
We have had a delightful drive , George , she said , and and we're so glad to come back and , Joseph , don't let him be late . 
fumbling in his shirt frill and among his under waistcoats . 
As the carriage drove off he kissed the diamond hand to the fair ladies within . 
Nor was he the only companion they found there . 
As they were coming into the hotel from a sea side walk one afternoon , on whom should they light but Rebecca and her husband . 
Rebecca flew into the arms of her dearest friend . 
Do you remember the last time we met at Miss Crawley's , when I was so rude to you , dear Captain Osborne ? I thought you seemed careless about dear Amelia . 
It was that made me angry and so pert and so unkind and so ungrateful . 
Do forgive me ! Rebecca said , and she held out her hand with so frank and winning a grace , that Osborne could not but take it . 
By humbly and frankly acknowledging yourself to be in the wrong , there is no knowing , my son , what good you may do . 
Becky's humility passed for sincerity with George Osborne . 
These two young couples had plenty of tales to relate to each other . 
The marriages of either were discussed and their prospects in life canvassed with the greatest frankness and interest on both sides . 
George's marriage was to be made known to his father by his friend Captain Dobbin and young Osborne trembled rather for the result of that communication . 
Miss Crawley , on whom all Rawdon's hopes depended , still held out . 
Unable to make an entry into her house in Park Lane , her affectionate nephew and niece had followed her to Brighton , where they had emissaries continually planted at her door . 
I wish you could see some of Rawdon's friends who are always about our door , Rebecca said , laughing . 
If Aunty does not relent , what shall we do ? Rawdon , with roars of laughter , related a dozen amusing anecdotes of his duns , and Rebecca's adroit treatment of them . 
He vowed with a great oath that there was no woman in Europe who could talk a creditor over as she could . 
Almost immediately after their marriage , her practice had begun , and her husband found the immense value of such a wife . 
They had credit in plenty , but they had bills also in abundance , and laboured under a scarcity of ready money . 
Long custom , a manly appearance , faultless boots and clothes , and a happy fierceness of manner , will often help a man as much as a great balance at the banker's . 
The two wedding parties met constantly in each other's apartments . 
After two or three nights the gentlemen of an evening had a little piquet , as their wives sate and chatted apart . 
So the three gentlemen walked down to see the Lightning coach come in . 
Hullo ! there's old Dobbin , George cried , quite delighted to see his old friend perched on the roof and whose promised visit to Brighton had been delayed until now . 
How are you , old fellow ? Glad you're come down . 
Dobbin looked very pale and grave . 
I've seen your father , said he . 
How's Amelia Mrs. George ? I'll tell you all the news presently but I've brought the great news of all and that is Out with it , old fellow , George said . 
All the army goes guards and all . 
Heavytop's got the gout , and is mad at not being able to move . 
O'Dowd goes in command , and we embark from Chatham next week . 
This news of war could not but come with a shock upon our lovers , and caused all these gentlemen to look very serious . 
They can't be angry in their hearts , thought he . 
No woman ever was really angry at a romantic marriage . 
A little crying out , and they must come round to their brother when the three of us will lay siege to old Mr. Osborne . 
So this Machiavellian captain of infantry cast about him for some happy means or stratagem by which he could gently and gradually bring the Misses Osborne to a knowledge of their brother's secret . 
They were both so silent that the ticktock of the Sacrifice of Iphigenia clock on the mantelpiece became quite rudely audible . 
What a nice party it was last night , Miss Osborne at length began , encouragingly and and how you're improved in your dancing , Captain Dobbin . 
Surely somebody has taught you , she added , with amiable archness . 
Is the Major's lady young and beautiful , Captain ? the fair questioner continued . 
One of our young men is just married , Dobbin said , now coming to the point . 
It was a very old attachment , and the young couple are as poor as church mice . 
O , how delightful ! O , how romantic ! Miss Osborne cried , as the Captain said old attachment and poor . 
The finest young fellow in the regiment , he continued . 
Not a braver or handsomer officer in the army and such a charming wife ! How you would like her ! how you will like her when you know her , Miss Osborne . 
Miss Osborne , I say , thought that when he had given himself a little air , he would unbosom himself entirely , and prepared eagerly to listen . 
I'll bet you five to two she will . 
Yes , about George , then , he continued . 
There has been a difference between him and Mr. Osborne . 
And I regard him so much for you know we have been like brothers that I hope and pray the quarrel may be settled . 
We must go abroad , Miss Osborne . 
We may be ordered off at a day's warning . 
Who knows what may happen in the campaign ? Don't be agitated , dear Miss Osborne and those two at least should part friends . 
There has been no quarrel , Captain Dobbin , except a little usual scene with Papa , the lady said . 
We are expecting George back daily . 
What Papa wanted was only for his good . 
He has but to come back , and I'm sure all will be well and dear Rhoda , who went away from here in sad sad anger , I know will forgive him . 
Woman forgives but too readily , Captain . 
Such an angel as YOU I am sure would , Mr. Dobbin said , with atrocious astuteness . 
And no man can pardon himself for giving a woman pain . 
What would you feel , if a man were faithless to you ? I should perish I should throw myself out of window I should take poison I should pine and die . 
I know I should , Miss cried , who had nevertheless gone through one or two affairs of the heart without any idea of suicide . 
And there are others , Dobbin continued , as true and as kind hearted as yourself . 
I've seen her in her poverty uncomplaining , broken hearted , without a fault . 
It is of Miss Sedley I speak . 
It is of no use , however , she continued , after a pause I feel for poor Miss Sedley , most certainly most sincerely , you know . 
We never thought the match a good one , though we were always very kind to her here very . 
But Papa will never consent , I am sure . 
And a well brought up young woman , you know with a well regulated mind , must George must give her up , dear Captain Dobbin , indeed he must . 
Ought a man to give up the woman he loved , just when misfortune befell her ? Dobbin said , holding out his hand . 
Dear Miss Osborne , is this the counsel I hear from you ? My dear young lady ! you must befriend her . 
He can't give her up . 
He must not give her up . 
Would a man , think you , give YOU up if you were poor ? This adroit question touched the heart of Miss Jane Osborne not a little . 
I don't know whether we poor girls ought to believe what you men say , Captain , she said . 
There is that in woman's tenderness which induces her to believe too easily . 
I'm afraid you are cruel , cruel deceivers , and Dobbin certainly thought he felt a pressure of the hand which Miss Osborne had extended to him . 
He dropped it in some alarm . 
No , dear Miss Osborne , all men are not your brother is not George has loved Amelia Sedley ever since they were children no wealth would make him marry any but her . 
At length when , by the help of farther polite speeches , he deemed that Miss Osborne was sufficiently prepared to receive the whole news , he poured it into her ear . 
He was scarcely out of the house , when Miss Maria and Miss Wirt rushed in to Miss Osborne , and the whole wonderful secret was imparted to them by that lady . 
To do them justice , neither of the sisters was very much displeased . 
It must be Papa , they thought . 
But it was not he . 
It was only Mr. Frederick Bullock , who had come from the City according to appointment , to conduct the ladies to a flower show . 
This gentleman , as may be imagined , was not kept long in ignorance of the secret . 
But his face , when he heard it , showed an amazement which was very different to that look of sentimental wonder which the countenances of the sisters wore . 
Mr. Bullock was a man of the world , and a junior partner of a wealthy firm . 
Gad ! Jane , said he , surveying even the elder sister with some interest , Eels will be sorry he cried off . 
You may be a fifty thousand pounder yet . 
And do not let my respected reader exclaim against this selfishness as unnatural . 
To these three presently came another little one . 
POLLY , says she , YOUR SISTER'S GOT A PENNY . 
At which the children got up from the puddle instantly , and ran off to pay their court to Peggy . 
And as the omnibus drove off I saw Peggy with the infantine procession at her tail , marching with great dignity towards the stall of a neighbouring lollipop woman . 
Mr. Chopper winked and nodded and pointed his pen towards his patron's door , and said , You'll find the governor all right , with the most provoking good humour . 
Osborne rose too , and shook him heartily by the hand , and said , How do , my dear boy ? with a cordiality that made poor George's ambassador feel doubly guilty . 
His hand lay as if dead in the old gentleman's grasp . 
He felt that he , Dobbin , was more or less the cause of all that had happened . 
The envoy had indeed good reason to hang his head . 
Osborne fully believed that Dobbin had come to announce his son's surrender . 
Mr. Chopper and his principal were talking over the matter between George and his father , at the very moment when Dobbin's messenger arrived . 
Both agreed that George was sending in his submission . 
With similar operations conducted in both pockets , and a knowing jolly air , Osborne from his chair regarded Dobbin seated blank and silent opposite to him . 
What a bumpkin he is for a Captain in the army , old Osborne thought . 
I wonder George hasn't taught him better manners . 
At last Dobbin summoned courage to begin . 
Sir , said he , I've brought you some very grave news . 
I have been at the Horse Guards this morning , and there's no doubt that our regiment will be ordered abroad , and on its way to Belgium before the week is over . 
And you know , sir , that we shan't be home again before a tussle which may be fatal to many of us . 
My s , the regiment will do its duty , sir , I daresay , he said . 
The French are very strong , sir , Dobbin went on . 
The Russians and Austrians will be a long time before they can bring their troops down . 
We shall have the first of the fight , sir and depend on it Boney will take care that it shall be a hard one . 
What are you driving at , Dobbin ? his interlocutor said , uneasy and with a scowl . 
As he said this , poor William Dobbin blushed crimson , and felt and owned that he himself was a traitor . 
But for him , perhaps , this severance need never have taken place . 
Amelia , too , MIGHT have recovered the shock of losing him . 
It was his counsel had brought about this marriage , and all that was to ensue from it . 
You are a good fellow , William , said Mr. Osborne in a softened voice and me and George shouldn't part in anger , that is true . 
I've done for him as much as any father ever did . 
He's had three times as much money from me , as I warrant your father ever gave you . 
But I don't brag about that . 
How I've toiled for him , and worked and employed my talents and energy , I won't say . 
Ask the City of London . 
Well , I propose to him such a marriage as any nobleman in the land might be proud of the only thing in life I ever asked him and he refuses me . 
I say , here's my hand . 
I say , forget and forgive . 
As for marrying now , it's out of the question . 
I'm glad you've brought him round . 
I know it's you , Dobbin . 
You've took him out of many a scrape before . 
Come along , and dine in Russell Square to day both of you . 
The old shop , the old hour . 
You'll find a neck of venison , and no questions asked . 
This praise and confidence smote Dobbin's heart very keenly . 
Every moment the colloquy continued in this tone , he felt more and more guilty . 
Sir , said he , I fear you deceive yourself . 
I am sure you do . 
George is much too high minded a man ever to marry for money . 
A threat on your part that you would disinherit him in case of disobedience would only be followed by resistance on his . 
Why , hang it , man , you don't call offering him eight or ten thousand a year threatening him ? '' Mr. Osborne said , with still provoking good humour . 
'Gad , if Miss S. will have me , I'm her man . 
I ain't particular about a shade or so of tawny . 
And the old gentleman gave his knowing grin and coarse laugh . 
You forget , sir , previous engagements into which Captain Osborne had entered , the ambassador said , gravely . 
My son and heir marry a beggar's girl out of a gutter . 
D him , if he does , let him buy a broom and sweep a crossing . 
She was always dangling and ogling after him , I recollect now and I've no doubt she was put on by her old sharper of a father . 
Mr. Sedley was your very good friend , sir , Dobbin interposed , almost pleased at finding himself growing angry . 
Time was you called him better names than rogue and swindler . 
The match was of your making . 
George had no right to play fast and loose Fast and loose ! howled out old Osborne . 
What , it's you who have been a setting of him up is it ? and my service to you , CAPTAIN . 
It's you who want to introduce beggars into my family . 
Thank you for nothing , Captain . 
Marry HER indeed he , he ! why should he ? I warrant you she'd go to him fast enough without . 
Sir , said Dobbin , starting up in undisguised anger no man shall abuse that lady in my hearing , and you least of all . 
O , you're a going to call me out , are you ? Stop , let me ring the bell for pistols for two . 
Mr. George sent you here to insult his father , did he ? Osborne said , pulling at the bell cord . 
Mr. Osborne , said Dobbin , with a faltering voice , it's you who are insulting the best creature in the world . 
You had best spare her , sir , for she's your son's wife . 
And with this , feeling that he could say no more , Dobbin went away , Osborne sinking back in his chair , and looking wildly after him . 
For God's sake , what is it ? Mr. Chopper said , catching the Captain by the skirt . 
The governor's in a fit . 
What has Mr. George been doing ? He married Miss Sedley five days ago , Dobbin replied . 
I was his groomsman , Mr. Chopper , and you must stand his friend . 
The old clerk shook his head . 
If that's your news , Captain , it's bad . 
The governor will never forgive him . 
Dobbin begged Chopper to report progress to him at the hotel where he was stopping , and walked off moodily westwards , greatly perturbed as to the past and the future . 
The ladies , and Mr. Bullock who dined with them , felt that the news had been communicated to Mr. Osborne . 
Miss Wirt , by consequence , was alone on her side of the board , a gap being left between her and Miss Jane Osborne . 
Now this was George's place when he dined at home and his cover , as we said , was laid for him in expectation of that truant's return . 
Nothing occurred during dinner time except smiling Mr. Frederick's flagging confidential whispers , and the clinking of plate and china , to interrupt the silence of the repast . 
The servants went about stealthily doing their duty . 
He pointed to it presently with his left hand . 
His daughters looked at him and did not comprehend , or choose to comprehend , the signal nor did the servants at first understand it . 
Take that plate away , at last he said , getting up with an oath and with this pushing his chair back , he walked into his own room . 
Behind Mr. Osborne's dining room was the usual apartment which went in his house by the name of the study and was sacred to the master of the house . 
Hither Mr. Osborne would retire of a Sunday forenoon when not minded to go to church and here pass the morning in his crimson leather chair , reading the paper . 
A couple of glazed book cases were here , containing standard works in stout gilt bindings . 
The Annual Register , the Gentleman's Magazine , Blair's Sermons , and Hume and Smollett . 
No member of the household , child , or domestic , ever entered that room without a certain terror . 
Here he checked the housekeeper's accounts , and overhauled the butler's cellar book . 
Four times a year Miss Wirt entered this apartment to get her salary and his daughters to receive their quarterly allowance . 
George as a boy had been horsewhipped in this room many times his mother sitting sick on the stair listening to the cuts of the whip . 
The boy was scarcely ever known to cry under the punishment the poor woman used to fondle and kiss him secretly , and give him money to soothe him when he came out . 
The mother lay underground now , long since forgotten the sisters and brother had a hundred different interests of their own , and , familiar still , were utterly estranged from each other . 
Osborne's own state portrait , with that of his great silver inkstand and arm chair , had taken the place of honour in the dining room , vacated by the family piece . 
To this study old Osborne retired then , greatly to the relief of the small party whom he left . 
When the servants had withdrawn , they began to talk for a while volubly but very low then they went upstairs quietly , Mr. Bullock accompanying them stealthily on his creaking shoes . 
He had no heart to sit alone drinking wine , and so close to the terrible old gentleman in the study hard at hand . 
An hour at least after dark , the butler , not having received any summons , ventured to tap at his door and take him in wax candles and tea . 
This time there was no mistaking the matter all the household knew that some great catastrophe was going to happen which was likely direly to affect Master George . 
In the large shining mahogany escritoire Mr. Osborne had a drawer especially devoted to his son's affairs and papers . 
His dear godpapa Sedley was more than once mentioned in them . 
Curses quivered on old Osborne's livid lips , and horrid hatred and disappointment writhed in his heart , as looking through some of these papers he came on that name . 
They were all marked and docketed , and tied with red tape . 
It was From Georgy , requesting s . 
, April , answered , April or Georgy about a pony , October and so forth . 
In another packet were Dr . 
S. 's accounts G. 's tailor's bills and outfits , drafts on me by G. Osborne , jun . 
Turning one over after another , and musing over these memorials , the unhappy man passed many hours . 
His dearest vanities , ambitious hopes , had all been here . 
What pride he had in his boy ! He was the handsomest child ever seen . 
Everybody said he was like a nobleman's son . 
A royal princess had remarked him , and kissed him , and asked his name in Kew Gardens . 
What City man could show such another ? Could a prince have been better cared for ? Anything that money could buy had been his son's . 
Had he ever refused a bill when George drew one ? There they were paid without a word . 
Then he opened the book case , and took down the great red Bible we have spoken of a pompous book , seldom looked at , and shining all over with gold . 
There was a frontispiece to the volume , representing Abraham sacrificing Isaac . 
Jane came first , then George Sedley Osborne , then Maria Frances , and the days of the christening of each . 
Taking a pen , he carefully obliterated George's names from the page and when the leaf was quite dry , restored the volume to the place from which he had moved it . 
It was his will which being burned , he sate down and wrote off a letter , and rang for his servant , whom he charged to deliver it in the morning . 
It was morning already as he went up to bed , the whole house was alight with the sunshine and the birds were singing among the fresh green leaves in Russell Square . 
When the girls had gone to rest , Mr. and Mrs. C. discoursed upon the strange events which were occurring in the governor's family . 
Never had the clerk seen his principal so moved . 
Chopper had been instructed to make out an account of all sums paid to Captain Osborne within the last three years . 
The dispute was something about Miss Sedley . 
Mrs. Chopper vowed and declared she pitied that poor young lady to lose such a handsome young fellow as the Capting . 
As the daughter of an unlucky speculator , who had paid a very shabby dividend , Mr. Chopper had no great regard for Miss Sedley . 
He respected the house of Osborne before all others in the City of London and his hope and wish was that Captain George should marry a nobleman's daughter . 
, he set off in his best Sunday suit and frilled shirt for business , promising his admiring wife not to punish Captain D. 's port too severely that evening . 
called by appointment , and was ushered into the governor's private room , and closeted there for more than an hour . 
At about one Mr. Chopper received a note brought by Captain Dobbin's man , and containing an inclosure for Mr. Osborne , which the clerk went in and delivered . 
A short time afterwards Mr. Chopper and Mr. Birch , the next clerk , were summoned , and requested to witness a paper . 
I've been making a new will , Mr. Osborne said , to which these gentlemen appended their names accordingly . 
Mr. Higgs looked exceedingly grave as he came into the outer rooms , and very hard in Mr. Chopper's face but there were not any explanations . 
It was remarked that Mr. Osborne was particularly quiet and gentle all day , to the surprise of those who had augured ill from his darkling demeanour . 
He called no man names that day , and was not heard to swear once . 
Indeed both of them knew the fact perfectly . 
Osborne took a letter directed to that officer , and giving it to the clerk , requested the latter to deliver it into Dobbin's own hands immediately . 
And now , Chopper , says he , taking his hat , and with a strange look , my mind will be easy . 
Mr. Frederick Bullock called , and he and Mr. Osborne walked away together . 
Captain Dobbin was an especial favourite of this old General . 
to Mademoiselle Amenaide of His Majesty's Theatre . 
This note , despatched by the same messenger who had carried the invitation to Chopper on the previous day , alarmed the worthy clerk not a little . 
It was inclosed to him , and as he opened the letter he trembled lest the dinner should be put off on which he was calculating . 
His mind was inexpressibly relieved when he found that the envelope was only a reminder for himself . 
He was very much interested about his employer's family but , que voulez vous ? a grand dinner was of more concern to him than the affairs of any other mortal . 
Mr. Stubble , as may be supposed from his size and slenderness , was of the Light Bobs . 
the Grenadier Company , and he tried on a new bearskin cap , under which he looked savage beyond his years . 
Ah ! there were many anxious hearts beating through England at that time and mothers' prayers and tears flowing in many homesteads . 
, Dobbin , who was going to write off a letter to George Osborne , relented , and locked up his desk . 
Why should I ? said he . 
Let her have this night happy . 
I'll go and see my parents early in the morning , and go down to Brighton myself to morrow . 
Young Stubble's eyes brightened up at this , for Dobbin was greatly respected in the regiment , as the best officer and the cleverest man in it . 
Thank you , Dobbin , he said , rubbing his eyes with his knuckles , I was just just telling her I would . 
And , O Sir , she's so dam kind to me . 
The water pumps were at work again , and I am not sure that the soft hearted Captain's eyes did not also twinkle . 
The two ensigns , the Captain , and Mr. Chopper , dined together in the same box . 
Chopper brought the letter from Mr. Osborne , in which the latter briefly presented his compliments to Captain Dobbin , and requested him to forward the inclosed to Captain George Osborne . 
But these grew more vague with every glass , and at length became perfectly unintelligible . 
But though she waited at home the Captain never came . 
Mr. Frederick Bullock came , and was particularly affectionate to Maria , and attentive to the broken spirited old gentleman . 
But you need not say that to Mrs. Osborne , you know . 
There mayn't be any fighting on our side after all , and our business in Belgium may turn out to be a mere military occupation . 
Many persons think so and Brussels is full of fine people and ladies of fashion . 
So it was agreed to represent the duty of the British army in Belgium in this harmless light to Amelia . 
Little Amelia , it must be owned , had rather a mean opinion of her husband's friend , Captain Dobbin . 
He lisped he was very plain and homely looking and exceedingly awkward and ungainly . 
, and she thought George was most generous and kind in extending his friendship to his brother officer . 
George had mimicked Dobbin's lisp and queer manners many times to her , though to do him justice , he always spoke most highly of his friend's good qualities . 
A time came when she knew him better , and changed her notions regarding him but that was distant as yet . 
As for Rebecca , Captain Dobbin had not been two hours in the ladies' company before she understood his secret perfectly . 
She did not like him , and feared him privately nor was he very much prepossessed in her favour . 
He was so honest , that her arts and cajoleries did not affect him , and he shrank from her with instinctive repulsion . 
And , as she was by no means so far superior to her sex as to be above jealousy , she disliked him the more for his adoration of Amelia . 
Nevertheless , she was very respectful and cordial in her manner towards him . 
Rawdon Crawley paid scarcely any attention to Dobbin , looking upon him as a good natured nincompoop and under bred City man . 
Jos patronised him with much dignity . 
This determination is final and irrevocable . 
yet I am instructed by Mr. Osborne to say , that he waives all claim upon your estate , and that the sum of , . 
, shall be paid over to yourself or your agents upon your receipt for the same , by Your obedient Servt . 
P. S. Mr. Osborne desires me to say , once for all , that he declines to receive any messages , letters , or communications from you on this or any other subject . 
A pretty way you have managed the affair , said George , looking savagely at William Dobbin . 
Look there , Dobbin , and he flung over to the latter his parent's letter . 
A beggar , by Jove , and all in consequence of my d d sentimentality . 
You were never easy until you had got me married and ruined . 
What the deuce am I to do with two thousand pounds ? Such a sum won't last two years . 
I've lost a hundred and forty to Crawley at cards and billiards since I've been down here . 
A pretty manager of a man's matters YOU are , forsooth . 
There are some men who wouldn't mind changing with you , he added , with a bitter smile . 
Do you suppose a man of my habits call live on his pay and a hundred a year ? George cried out in great anger . 
You must be a fool to talk so , Dobbin . 
How the deuce am I to keep up my position in the world upon such a pitiful pittance ? I can't change my habits . 
I must have my comforts . 
I wasn't brought up on porridge , like MacWhirter , or on potatoes , like old O'Dowd . 
But try and remember that you are only a dethroned prince now , George , my boy and be quiet whilst the tempest lasts . 
It won't be for long . 
Let your name be mentioned in the Gazette , and I'll engage the old father relents towards you Mentioned in the Gazette ! George answered . 
And in what part of it ? Among the killed and wounded returns , and at the top of the list , very likely . 
Psha ! It will be time enough to cry out when we are hurt , Dobbin said . 
I say , Becky , cried Rawdon Crawley out of his dressing room , to his lady , who was attiring herself for dinner in her own chamber . 
What ? said Becky's shrill voice . 
She was looking over her shoulder in the glass . 
I say , what'll Mrs. O. do , when . 
I suppose she'll cry her eyes out , Becky answered . 
She has been whimpering half a dozen times , at the very notion of it , already to me . 
YOU don't care , I suppose ? Rawdon said , half angry at his wife's want of feeling . 
You wretch ! don't you know that I intend to go with you , Becky replied . 
You go as General Tufto's aide de camp . 
We don't belong to the line , Mrs. Crawley said , throwing up her head with an air that so enchanted her husband that he stooped down and kissed it . 
Rawdon dear don't you think you'd better get that money from Cupid , before he goes ? Becky continued , fixing on a killing bow . 
She called George Osborne , Cupid . 
She had flattered him about his good looks a score of times already . 
She watched over him kindly at ecarte of a night when he would drop in to Rawdon's quarters for a half hour before bed time . 
She had often called him a horrid dissipated wretch , and threatened to tell Emmy of his wicked ways and naughty extravagant habits . 
She brought his cigar and lighted it for him she knew the effect of that manoeuvre , having practised it in former days upon Rawdon Crawley . 
He thought her gay , brisk , arch , distinguee , delightful . 
Emmy's mind somehow misgave her about her friend . 
Rebecca's wit , spirits , and accomplishments troubled her with a rueful disquiet . 
They were only a week married , and here was George already suffering ennui , and eager for others' society ! She trembled for the future . 
I ought to have stopped at home and taken care of poor Papa . 
was now remembered for the first time , and caused her to blush with humiliation . 
Oh ! thought she , I have been very wicked and selfish selfish in forgetting them in their sorrows selfish in forcing George to marry me . 
I know I'm not worthy of him I know he would have been happy without me and yet I tried , I tried to give him up . 
It is hard when , before seven days of marriage are over , such thoughts and confessions as these force themselves on a little bride's mind . 
I know Miss Smith has a mean opinion of her . 
How delicious they smell in the open air ! I adore them . 
Who'd think the moon was two hundred and thirty six thousand eight hundred and forty seven miles off ? Becky added , gazing at that orb with a smile . 
Isn't it clever of me to remember that ? Pooh ! we learned it all at Miss Pinkerton's ! How calm the sea is , and how clear everything . 
I declare I can almost see the coast of France ! and her bright green eyes streamed out , and shot into the night as if they could see through it . 
Isn't that a stratagem ? George burst out laughing at the idea of this aquatic meeting . 
What's the row there , you two ? Rawdon shouted out , rattling the box . 
Amelia was making a fool of herself in an absurd hysterical manner , and retired to her own room to whimper in private . 
George was too humane or too much occupied with the tie of his neckcloth to convey at once all the news to Amelia which his comrade had brought with him from London . 
Dearest George parried the question about foreign service , and with a melancholy shake of the head said , No , Emmy it isn't that it's not myself I care about it's you . 
I have had bad news from my father . 
He refuses any communication with me he has flung us off and leaves us to poverty . 
I can rough it well enough but you , my dear , how will you bear it ? read here . 
And he handed her over the letter . 
Her face cleared up as she read the document , however . 
The idea of sharing poverty and privation in company with the beloved object is , as we have before said , far from being disagreeable to a warm hearted woman . 
The notion was actually pleasant to little Amelia . 
But he can't be angry with you long , she continued . 
Nobody could , I'm sure . 
He must forgive you , my dearest , kindest husband . 
O , I shall never forgive myself if he does not . 
What vexes me , my poor Emmy , is not my misfortune , but yours , George said . 
I don't care for a little poverty and I think , without vanity , I've talents enough to make my own way . 
That you have , interposed his wife , who thought that war should cease , and her husband should be made a general instantly . 
Thus the repast , which at length came off , instead of being dismal , was an exceedingly brisk and merry one . 
The excitement of the campaign counteracted in George's mind the depression occasioned by the disinheriting letter . 
Dobbin still kept up his character of rattle . 
He amused the company with accounts of the army in Belgium where nothing but fetes and gaiety and fashion were going on . 
Ghent ! Brussels ! cried out Amelia with a sudden shock and start . 
Is the regiment ordered away , George is it ordered away ? A look of terror came over the sweet smiling face , and she clung to George as by an instinct . 
Don't be afraid , dear , he said good naturedly it is but a twelve hours' passage . 
You shall go , too , Emmy . 
I intend to go , said Becky . 
General Tufto is a great flirt of mine . 
Isn't he , Rawdon ? Rawdon laughed out with his usual roar . 
William Dobbin flushed up quite red . 
We'll have Mrs. O'Dowd to chaperon you , he said . 
What cared she so long as her husband was near her ? Thus somehow the bitterness of a parting was juggled away . 
Though war and danger were in store , war and danger might not befall for months to come . 
For , to be permitted to see her was now the greatest privilege and hope of his life , and he thought with himself secretly how he would watch and protect her . 
I wouldn't have let her go if I had been married to her , he thought . 
But George was the master , and his friend did not think fit to remonstrate . 
Great news , she wrote . 
Get the money from Cupid tonight , as he'll be off to morrow most likely . 
With these they set off in state , after breakfast , the next day . 
She was only too glad , however , to perform this office for herself . 
As long as she remained by the side of her sister in law , Mrs. Bute Crawley took care that her beloved Matilda should not be agitated by a meeting with her nephew . 
When the spinster took her drive , the faithful Mrs. Bute sate beside her in the carriage . 
When Miss Crawley took the air in a chair , Mrs. Bute marched on one side of the vehicle , whilst honest Briggs occupied the other wing . 
We might as well be in London as here , Captain Rawdon often said , with a downcast air . 
A comfortable inn in Brighton is better than a spunging house in Chancery Lane , his wife answered , who was of a more cheerful temperament . 
Think of those two aides de camp of Mr. Moses , the sheriff's officer , who watched our lodging for a week . 
Our friends here are very stupid , but Mr. Jos and Captain Cupid are better companions than Mr. Moses's men , Rawdon , my love . 
I wonder the writs haven't followed me down here , Rawdon continued , still desponding . 
It will hardly be enough to pay the inn bill , grumbled the Guardsman . 
Why need we pay it ? said the lady , who had an answer for everything . 
Nor was Miss Briggs , although forced to adopt a hostile attitude , secretly inimical to Rawdon and his wife . 
She was naturally of a kindly and forgiving disposition . 
Now that the cause of jealousy was removed , her dislike for Rebecca disappeared also , and she remembered the latter's invariable good words and good humour . 
And , indeed , she and Mrs. Firkin , the lady's maid , and the whole of Miss Crawley's household , groaned under the tyranny of the triumphant Mrs. Bute . 
As often will be the case , that good but imperious woman pushed her advantages too far , and her successes quite unmercifully . 
She apportioned the sweetbreads , jellies , chickens their quantity and order . 
She's no spirit left in her , Firkin remarked to Briggs she ain't ave called me a fool these three weeks . 
The Reverend Bute Crawley , her husband , riding home one night , fell with his horse and broke his collar bone . 
Fever and inflammatory symptoms set in , and Mrs. Bute was forced to leave Sussex for Hampshire . 
It was as in the old nursery story , when the stick forgot to beat the dog , and the whole course of events underwent a peaceful and happy revolution . 
It was a pretty picture the beach the bathing women's faces the long line of rocks and building were blushing and bright in the sunshine . 
Rebecca wore a kind , tender smile on her face , and was holding out her pretty white hand as Briggs emerged from the box . 
What could Briggs do but accept the salutation ? Miss Sh Mrs. Crawley , she said . 
Mrs. Crawley seized her hand , pressed it to her heart , and with a sudden impulse , flinging her arms round Briggs , kissed her affectionately . 
Rebecca found no difficulty in engaging Briggs in a long , intimate , and delightful conversation . 
All Miss Crawley's symptoms , and the particulars of her illness and medical treatment , were narrated by the confidante with that fulness and accuracy which women delight in . 
About their complaints and their doctors do ladies ever tire of talking to each other ? Briggs did not on this occasion nor did Rebecca weary of listening . 
She was thankful , truly thankful , that the dear kind Briggs , that the faithful , the invaluable Firkin , had been permitted to remain with their benefactress through her illness . 
I would never have treated Miss Crawley's faithful friends as that odious designing Mrs. Bute has done . 
to remember that her own home , humble as it was , was always open to receive Briggs . 
It was all very true . 
Briggs saw the stratagems as clearly as possible . 
Mrs. Bute had made the match between Rawdon and Rebecca . 
On this point Rebecca had her own opinion , and still kept up a good heart . 
If Miss Crawley did not forgive them at present , she might at least relent on a future day . 
Even now , there was only that puling , sickly Pitt Crawley between Rawdon and a baronetcy and should anything happen to the former , all would be well . 
This interview ended , it became full time for Rebecca to return to her inn , where all the party of the previous day were assembled at a farewell breakfast . 
Her hopes were very high she made her husband share them . 
She generally succeeded in making her husband share all her opinions , whether melancholy or cheerful . 
So Rawdon sate down , and wrote off , Brighton , Thursday , and My dear Aunt , with great rapidity but there the gallant officer's imagination failed him . 
He mumbled the end of his pen , and looked up in his wife's face . 
Before quitting the country and commencing a campaign , which very possibly may be fatal . 
What ? said Rawdon , rather surprised , but took the humour of the phrase , and presently wrote it down with a grin . 
Which very possibly may be fatal , I have come hither Why not say come here , Becky ? Come here's grammar , the dragoon interposed . 
I have come hither , Rebecca insisted , with a stamp of her foot , to say farewell to my dearest and earliest friend . 
I beseech you before I go , not perhaps to return , once more to let me press the hand from which I have received nothing but kindnesses all my life . 
Kindnesses all my life , echoed Rawdon , scratching down the words , and quite amazed at his own facility of composition . 
I ask nothing from you but that we should part not in anger . 
I have the pride of my family on some points , though not on all . 
I married a painter's daughter , and am not ashamed of the union . 
No , run me through the body if I am ! Rawdon ejaculated . 
You old booby , Rebecca said , pinching his ear and looking over to see that he made no mistakes in spelling beseech is not spelt with an a , and earliest is . 
So he altered these words , bowing to the superior knowledge of his little Missis . 
I thought that you were aware of the progress of my attachment , Rebecca continued I knew that Mrs. Bute Crawley confirmed and encouraged it . 
But I make no reproaches . 
I married a poor woman , and am content to abide by what I have done . 
Leave your property , dear Aunt , as you will . 
I shall never complain of the way in which you dispose of it . 
I would have you believe that I love you for yourself , and not for money's sake . 
I want to be reconciled to you ere I leave England . 
Let me , let me see you before I go . 
A few weeks or months hence it may be too late , and I cannot bear the notion of quitting the country without a kind word of farewell from you . 
She won't recognise my style in that , said Becky . 
I made the sentences short and brisk on purpose . 
And this authentic missive was despatched under cover to Miss Briggs . 
Old Miss Crawley laughed when Briggs , with great mystery , handed her over this candid and simple statement . 
We may read it now Mrs. Bute is away , she said . 
Read it to me , Briggs . 
When Briggs had read the epistle out , her patroness laughed more . 
He never wrote to me without asking for money in his life , and all his letters are full of bad spelling , and dashes , and bad grammar . 
It is that little serpent of a governess who rules him . 
They are all alike , Miss Crawley thought in her heart . 
They all want me dead , and are hankering for my money . 
I don't mind seeing Rawdon , she added , after a pause , and in a tone of perfect indifference . 
I had just as soon shake hands with him as not . 
Provided there is no scene , why shouldn't we meet ? I don't mind . 
And as for Rawdon , he turned as red as scarlet , and wrung off Briggs's hand , so great was his rapture and his confusion at the meeting . 
Perhaps it was interest that moved him or perhaps affection perhaps he was touched by the change which the illness of the last weeks had wrought in his aunt . 
I walked by the side of the what dy'e call 'em , you know , and to her own door , where Bowls came to help her in . 
And I wanted to go in very much , only YOU DIDN'T GO IN , Rawdon ! screamed his wife . 
No , my dear I'm hanged if I wasn't afraid when it came to the point . 
You fool ! you ought to have gone in , and never come out again , Rebecca said . 
Don't call me names , said the big Guardsman , sulkily . 
Miss Crawley must have had some emotion upon seeing him and shaking hands with him after so long a rupture . 
She mused upon the meeting a considerable time . 
Rawdon is getting very fat and old , Briggs , she said to her companion . 
His nose has become red , and he is exceedingly coarse in appearance . 
His marriage to that woman has hopelessly vulgarised him . 
Mrs. Bute always said they drank together and I have no doubt they do . 
Yes he smelt of gin abominably . 
Poor Briggs went and placed herself obediently at the writing book . 
Its leaves were blotted all over with relics of the firm , strong , rapid handwriting of the spinster's late amanuensis , Mrs. Bute Crawley . 
And thank him for coming to Brighton , and so forth , and beg him not to stay any longer on my account . 
Yes , that will do and that will make him leave Brighton . 
The benevolent Briggs penned this sentence with the utmost satisfaction . 
To seize upon me the very day after Mrs. Bute was gone , the old lady prattled on it was too indecent . 
Briggs , my dear , write to Mrs. Crawley , and say SHE needn't come back . 
No she needn't and she shan't and I won't be a slave in my own house and I won't be starved and choked with poison . 
They all want to kill me all all and with this the lonely old woman burst into a scream of hysterical tears . 
The last scene of her dismal Vanity Fair comedy was fast approaching the tawdry lamps were going out one by one and the dark curtain was almost ready to descend . 
And it effected the purpose for which the old lady had caused it to be written , by making Rawdon very eager to get to London . 
Rawdon and his wife returned by the same conveyance next day . 
I should have liked to see the old girl before we went , Rawdon said . 
She looks so cut up and altered that I'm sure she can't last long . 
I wonder what sort of a cheque I shall have at Waxy's . 
They were all off to Chatham , thence to Harwich , to take shipping for Belgium with the regiment kind old Mrs. Sedley very much depressed and tearful , solitary . 
Returning from this visit , Rebecca found her husband , who had been off to Gray's Inn , and learnt his fate . 
George pooh poohed the wine and bullied the waiters royally , and Jos gobbled the turtle with immense satisfaction . 
The splendour of the entertainment , and the apartments in which it was given , alarmed Mr. Dobbin , who remonstrated after dinner , when Jos was asleep in the great chair . 
But in vain he cried out against the enormity of turtle and champagne that was fit for an archbishop . 
I've always been accustomed to travel like a gentleman , George said , and , damme , my wife shall travel like a lady . 
As long as there's a shot in the locker , she shall want for nothing , said the generous fellow , quite pleased with himself for his magnificence of spirit . 
Nor did Dobbin try and convince him that Amelia's happiness was not centred in turtle soup . 
A while after dinner , Amelia timidly expressed a wish to go and see her mamma , at Fulham which permission George granted her with some grumbling . 
George was still drinking claret when she returned to the dining room , and made no signs of moving . 
Ar'n't you coming with me , dearest ? she asked him . 
No the dearest had business that night . 
His man should get her a coach and go with her . 
The very valet was ashamed of mentioning the address to the hackney coachman before the hotel waiters , and promised to instruct him when they got further on . 
Dobbin walked home to his old quarters and the Slaughters' , thinking very likely that it would be delightful to be in that hackney coach , along with Mrs. Osborne . 
George was evidently of quite a different taste for when he had taken wine enough , he went off to half price at the play , to see Mr. Kean perform in Shylock . 
Captain Osborne was a great lover of the drama , and had himself performed high comedy characters with great distinction in several garrison theatrical entertainments . 
Old Mr. Clapp , who was in his shirt sleeves , trimming the garden plot , shrank back alarmed . 
The Irish servant lass rushed up from the kitchen and smiled a God bless you . 
Amelia could hardly walk along the flags and up the steps into the parlour . 
About a question of marriage I have seen women who hate each other kiss and cry together quite fondly . 
Let us respect Amelia and her mamma whispering and whimpering and laughing and crying in the parlour and the twilight . 
HE had not divined who was in the carriage when it drove up . 
, and after sitting with the mother and daughter for a short time , he very wisely left the little apartment in their possession . 
George's valet was looking on in a very supercilious manner at Mr. Clapp in his shirt sleeves , watering his rose bushes . 
He gave him a half guinea too , which the servant pocketed with a mixture of wonder and contempt . 
To the health of your master and mistress , Trotter , Mr. Sedley said , and here's something to drink your health when you get home , Trotter . 
There were but nine days past since Amelia had left that little cottage and home and yet how far off the time seemed since she had bidden it farewell . 
What a gulf lay between her and that past life . 
The review of those days , so lately gone yet so far away , touched her with shame and the aspect of the kind parents filled her with tender remorse . 
, there to take measures for the preparing of a magnificent ornamented tea . 
She sank back in its arms as if it were an old friend and fell to thinking over the past week , and the life beyond it . 
Here she sate , and recalled to herself fondly that image of George to which she had knelt before marriage . 
Then Rebecca's twinkling green eyes and baleful smile lighted upon her , and filled her with dismay . 
Love had been her faith hitherto and the sad , bleeding disappointed heart began to feel the want of another consoler . 
Have we a right to repeat or to overhear her prayers ? These , brother , are secrets , and out of the domain of Vanity Fair , in which our story lies . 
She went downstairs , and kissed her father and mother , and talked to the old gentleman , and made him more merry than he had been for many a day . 
She sate down at the piano which Dobbin had bought for her , and sang over all her father's favourite old songs . 
She pronounced the tea to be excellent , and praised the exquisite taste in which the marmalade was arranged in the saucers . 
For the next day , George had more important business to transact than that which took him to see Mr. Kean in Shylock . 
Immediately on his arrival in London he had written off to his father's solicitors , signifying his royal pleasure that an interview should take place between them on the morrow . 
He had a perfect belief in his own mind that his father would relent before very long . 
And if not ? Bah ! the world was before him . 
His luck might change at cards , and there was a deal of spending in two thousand pounds . 
They had but one day to complete the outfit , and it may be imagined that their business therefore occupied them pretty fully . 
Nor was Mrs. Amelia at all above the pleasure of shopping , and bargaining , and seeing and buying pretty things . 
And about the war that was ensuing , Mrs. Osborne was not much alarmed Bonaparty was to be crushed almost without a struggle . 
Margate packets were sailing every day , filled with men of fashion and ladies of note , on their way to Brussels and Ghent . 
People were going not so much to a war as to a fashionable tour . 
The newspapers laughed the wretched upstart and swindler to scorn . 
The miserable poor devils knew all about his affairs . 
They talked about them over their pints of beer at their public house clubs to other clerks of a night . 
Ye gods , what do not attorneys and attorneys' clerks know in London ! Nothing is hidden from their inquisition , and their families mutely rule our city . 
He pretended to be writing at a paper , when the Captain entered . 
Pray , sit down , sir , said he , and I will attend to your little affair in a moment . 
Mr. Poe , get the release papers , if you please and then he fell to writing again . 
Give me a cheque , sir , said the Captain very surlily . 
That chap will be in gaol in two years , Mr. Higgs said to Mr. Poe . 
Won't O. come round , sir , don't you think ? Won't the monument come round , Mr. Higgs replied . 
He's going it pretty fast , said the clerk . 
He's only married a week , and I saw him and some other military chaps handing Mrs. Highflyer to her carriage after the play . 
And then another case was called , and Mr. George Osborne thenceforth dismissed from these worthy gentlemen's memory . 
, whose yellow face was over a ledger , at which sate a demure clerk , happened to be in the banking room when George entered . 
His yellow face turned to a more deadly colour when he saw the Captain , and he slunk back guiltily into the inmost parlour . 
, to mark the countenance or flight of the cadaverous suitor of his sister . 
Fred Bullock told old Osborne of his son's appearance and conduct . 
He came in as bold as brass , said Frederick . 
He has drawn out every shilling . 
How long will a few hundred pounds last such a chap as that ? Osborne swore with a great oath that he little cared when or how soon he spent it . 
Fred dined every day in Russell Square now . 
But altogether , George was highly pleased with his day's business . 
All his own baggage and outfit was put into a state of speedy preparation , and he paid Amelia's purchases with cheques on his agents , and with the splendour of a lord . 
Along with the Captain was Ensign Stubble who , as the barouche neared the inn , burst out with an exclamation of By Jove ! what a pretty girl highly applauding Osborne's choice . 
Dobbin liked him for making it . 
Dobbin took most kindly to Mr. Stubble from that day , and encouraged him to talk about Amelia in their private walks , and at each other's quarters . 
It became the fashion , indeed , among all the honest young fellows of the th to adore and admire Mrs. Osborne . 
Her simple artless behaviour , and modest kindness of demeanour , won all their unsophisticated hearts all which simplicity and sweetness are quite impossible to describe in print . 
In the sitting room which was awaiting the travellers , Amelia , to her surprise , found a letter addressed to Mrs. Captain Osborne . 
It's Peggy O'Dowd's fist , said George , laughing . 
I know it by the kisses on the seal . 
And in fact , it was a note from Mrs. Major O'Dowd , requesting the pleasure of Mrs. Osborne's company that very evening to a small friendly party . 
You must go , George said . 
You will make acquaintance with the regiment there . 
Sure , I couldn't stop till tay time . 
Present me , Garge , my dear fellow , to your lady . 
You've often heard of me from that husband of yours , said the lady , with great vivacity . 
You've often heard of her , echoed her husband , the Major . 
Amelia answered , smiling , that she had . 
And small good he's told you of me , Mrs. O'Dowd replied adding that George was a wicked divvle . 
This , my dear , said George with great gravity , is my very good , kind , and excellent friend , Auralia Margaretta , otherwise called Peggy . 
Faith , you're right , interposed the Major . 
Otherwise called Peggy , lady of Major Michael O'Dowd , of our regiment , and daughter of Fitzjurld Ber'sford de Burgo Malony of Glenmalony , County Kildare . 
And Muryan Squeer , Doblin , said the lady with calm superiority . 
And Muryan Square , sure enough , the Major whispered . 
'Twas there ye coorted me , Meejor dear , the lady said and the Major assented to this as to every other proposition which was made generally in company . 
At the mess table he sat silently , and drank a great deal . 
When full of liquor , he reeled silently home . 
When he spoke , it was to agree with everybody on every conceivable point and he passed through life in perfect ease and good humour . 
The hottest suns of India never heated his temper and the Walcheren ague never shook it . 
company , this amiable lady told all her birth and pedigree to her new friend . 
My dear , said she , good naturedly , it was my intention that Garge should be a brother of my own , and my sister Glorvina would have suited him entirely . 
Faith , you've got such a nice good natured face and way widg you , that I'm sure we'll agree and that you'll be an addition to our family anyway . 
We're all good fellows here , the Major's lady continued . 
There's not a regiment in the service where you'll find a more united society nor a more agreeable mess room . 
There's no quarrelling , bickering , slandthering , nor small talk amongst us . 
We all love each other . 
Especially Mrs. Magenis , said George , laughing . 
Mrs. Captain Magenis and me has made up , though her treatment of me would bring me gray hairs with sorrow to the grave . 
And you with such a beautiful front of black , Peggy , my dear , the Major cried . 
Hould your tongue , Mick , you booby . 
I'll tell you about the regiment , and warn you when we're alone . 
Mr. Sedley , sir , I'm deloighted to be made known te ye . 
I suppose you'll dine at the mess to day . 
It's the th gives us a farewell dinner , my love , interposed the Major , but we'll easy get a card for Mr. Sedley . 
Before Mrs. O'Dowd's speech was concluded , the young Ensign was trotting downstairs on his commission . 
Obedience is the soul of the army . 
She told Amelia a thousand particulars relative to the very numerous family of which the amazed young lady found herself a member . 
Mrs. Magenis , though without education , was a good woman , but she had the divvle's tongue , and would cheat her own mother at whist . 
Nayther of 'em's goin' with the regiment this time , Mrs. O'Dowd added . 
Mrs. Bunny's in an interesting situation faith , and she always is , then and has given the Lieutenant seven already . 
Of this incongruous family our astonished Amelia found herself all of a sudden a member with Mrs. O'Dowd as an elder sister . 
I hope Osborne has sown his wild oats , said Mrs. Magenis to Mrs. Bunny . 
And as for Mrs. Kirk that disciple of Dr . 
But all the men , like good fellows as they were , rallied round their comrade's pretty wife , and paid her their court with soldierly gallantry . 
She had a little triumph , which flushed her spirits and made her eyes sparkle . 
with which she received the gentlemen's attentions , and answered their compliments . 
And he in his uniform how much handsomer he was than any man in the room ! She felt that he was affectionately watching her , and glowed with pleasure at his kindness . 
I will make all his friends welcome , she resolved in her heart . 
I will love all as I love him . 
I will always try and be gay and good humoured and make his home happy . 
The regiment indeed adopted her with acclamation . 
The Captains approved , the Lieutenants applauded , the Ensigns admired . 
Young Stubble went about from man to man whispering , Jove , isn't she a pretty gal ? and never took his eyes off her except when the negus came in . 
As for Captain Dobbin , he never so much as spoke to her during the whole evening . 
Having put the Collector into the hands of his servant , Dobbin loitered about , smoking his cigar before the inn door . 
So Amelia gave Dobbin her little hand as she got out of the carriage , and rebuked him smilingly for not having taken any notice of her all night . 
The Captain continued that deleterious amusement of smoking , long after the inn and the street were gone to bed . 
He watched the lights vanish from George's sitting room windows , and shine out in the bedroom close at hand . 
It was almost morning when he returned to his own quarters . 
He could hear the cheering from the ships in the river , where the transports were already taking in their cargoes preparatory to dropping down the Thames . 
As soon as he had agreed to escort his sister abroad , it was remarked that he ceased shaving his upper lip . 
At Chatham he followed the parades and drills with great assiduity . 
, and learned as many military names as he could . 
, rated him and laughed at him soundly the mustachios were grown in advance , and Jos finally was persuaded to embark . 
Times are altered at Ostend now of the Britons who go thither , very few look like lords , or act like those members of our hereditary aristocracy . 
They seem for the most part shabby in attire , dingy of linen , lovers of billiards and brandy , and cigars and greasy ordinaries . 
But it may be said as a rule , that every Englishman in the Duke of Wellington's army paid his way . 
The remembrance of such a fact surely becomes a nation of shopkeepers . 
It was a blessing for a commerce loving country to be overrun by such an army of customers and to have such creditable warriors to feed . 
And the country which they came to protect is not military . 
For a long period of history they have let other people fight there . 
Pas si bete such an answer and sentiment as no Frenchman would own to was his reply . 
But , on the other hand , the postilion who drove us was a Viscount , a son of some bankrupt Imperial General , who accepted a pennyworth of beer on the road . 
The moral is surely a good one . 
As our painters are bent on military subjects just now , I throw out this as a good subject for the pencil , to illustrate the principle of an honest English war . 
All looked as brilliant and harmless as a Hyde Park review . 
The famous regiment , with so many of whose officers we have made acquaintance , was drafted in canal boats to Bruges and Ghent , thence to march to Brussels . 
Jos accompanied the ladies in the public boats the which all old travellers in Flanders must remember for the luxury and accommodation they afforded . 
Jos's death was not to be of this sort , but his comfort was exceeding , and Mrs. O'Dowd insisted that he only wanted her sister Glorvina to make his happiness complete . 
He sate on the roof of the cabin all day drinking Flemish beer , shouting for Isidor , his servant , and talking gallantly to the ladies . 
Boney attack us ! he cried . 
My dear creature , my poor Emmy , don't be frightened . 
You don't know military affairs , my dear . 
I do , and I tell you there's no infantry in France can stand against Rooshian infantry , and no general of Boney's that's fit to hold a candle to Wittgenstein . 
Then there are the Austrians , they are five hundred thousand if a man , and they are within ten marches of the frontier by this time , under Schwartzenberg and Prince Charles . 
Then there are the Prooshians under the gallant Prince Marshal . 
Show me a cavalry chief like him now that Murat is gone . 
Hey , Mrs. O'Dowd ? Do you think our little girl here need be afraid ? Is there any cause for fear , Isidor ? Hey , sir ? Get some more beer . 
He was rather a favourite with the regiment , treating the young officers with sumptuosity , and amusing them by his military airs . 
, to exchange into some better regiment soon , and to get his wife away from those damned vulgar women . 
and Mrs. Amelia , a natural and unaffected person , had none of that artificial shamefacedness which her husband mistook for delicacy on his own part . 
Talk about kenal boats my dear ! Ye should see the kenal boats between Dublin and Ballinasloe . 
It's there the rapid travelling is and the beautiful cattle . 
for a four year old heifer , the like of which ye never saw in this country any day . 
And Jos owned with a sigh , that for good streaky beef , really mingled with fat and lean , there was no country like England . 
The idea of comparing the market at Bruges with those of Dublin , although she had suggested it herself , caused immense scorn and derision on her part . 
The place was full of English soldiery as they passed . 
Every day during this happy time there was novelty and amusement for all parties . 
There was a church to see , or a picture gallery there was a ride , or an opera . 
The bands of the regiments were making music at all hours . 
The greatest folks of England walked in the Park there was a perpetual military festival . 
George , taking out his wife to a new jaunt or junket every night , was quite pleased with himself as usual , and swore he was becoming quite a domestic character . 
Her husband bade her buy laces , millinery , jewels , and gimcracks of all sorts . 
Old Bareacres , who had not much pride and a large appetite , would go for a dinner anywhere . 
I. hope there will be no women besides our own party , Lady Bareacres said , after reflecting upon the invitation which had been made , and accepted with too much precipitancy . 
The men are bearable , but their women Wife , just married , dev'lish pretty woman , I hear , the old Earl said . 
Well , my dear Blanche , said the mother , I suppose , as Papa wants to go , we must go but we needn't know them in England , you know . 
This is a species of dignity in which the high bred British female reigns supreme . 
To watch the behaviour of a fine lady to other and humbler women , is a very good sport for a philosophical frequenter of Vanity Fair . 
This festival , on which honest George spent a great deal of money , was the very dismallest of all the entertainments which Amelia had in her honeymoon . 
He has thick curling brown hair and black eyebrows now , and his whiskers are of the deepest purple . 
He was light haired and bald in , and stouter in the person and in the limbs , which especially have shrunk very much of late . 
, his hair , which was very scarce and quite white , suddenly grew thick , and brown , and curly , and his whiskers and eyebrows took their present colour . 
Ill natured people say that his chest is all wool , and that his hair , because it never grows , is a wig . 
You should see the flowers at Glenmalony , Mrs. O'Dowd was remarking . 
Me fawther has three Scotch garners with nine helpers . 
We have an acre of hot houses , and pines as common as pays in the sayson . 
Our greeps weighs six pounds every bunch of 'em , and upon me honour and conscience I think our magnolias is as big as taykettles . 
, fell back in the crowd , crowing and sputtering until he reached a safe distance , when he exploded amongst the astonished market people with shrieks of yelling laughter . 
Hwhat's that gawky guggling about ? said Mrs. O'Dowd . 
Is it his nose bleedn ? He always used to say 'twas his nose bleedn , till he must have pomped all the blood out of 'um . 
An't the magnolias at Glenmalony as big as taykettles , O'Dowd ? 'Deed then they are , and bigger , Peggy , the Major said . 
When the conversation was interrupted in the manner stated by the arrival of the officer who purchased the bouquet . 
Devlish fine horse who is it ? George asked . 
Where you got your step , said George with a laugh . 
General Tufto ! Then , my dear , the Crawleys are come . 
Amelia's heart fell she knew not why . 
The sun did not seem to shine so bright . 
George purchased a horse for his private riding , and he and Captain Dobbin would often accompany the carriage in which Jos and his sister took daily excursions of pleasure . 
, and by the side of the gallant General Tufto . 
Sure it's the Juke himself , cried Mrs. Major O'Dowd to Jos , who began to blush violently and that's Lord Uxbridge on the bay . 
How elegant he looks ! Me brother , Molloy Malony , is as like him as two pays . 
the black cock's feathers until she began to think she had made a conquest of him . 
George , who had been delayed behind , rode up almost immediately with Dobbin , and they touched their caps to the august personages , among whom Osborne at once perceived Mrs. Crawley . 
He was delighted to see Rawdon leaning over his carriage familiarly and talking to Amelia , and met the aide de camp's cordial greeting with more than corresponding warmth . 
The nods between Rawdon and Dobbin were of the very faintest specimens of politeness . 
Crawley told George where they were stopping with General Tufto at the Hotel du Parc , and George made his friend promise to come speedily to Osborne's own residence . 
Sorry I hadn't seen you three days ago , George said . 
Had a dinner at the Restaurateur's rather a nice thing . 
Lord Bareacres , and the Countess , and Lady Blanche , were good enough to dine with us wish we'd had you . 
How well the Juke looked , Mrs. O'Dowd remarked . 
The Wellesleys and Malonys are related but , of course , poor I would never dream of introjuicing myself unless his Grace thought proper to remember our family tie . 
He's a great soldier , Jos said , much more at ease now the great man was gone . 
The apparition of the great personages held them all in talk during the drive and at dinner and until the hour came when they were all to go to the Opera . 
It was almost like Old England . 
The house was filled with familiar British faces , and those toilettes for which the British female has long been celebrated . 
Her presence used to excruciate Osborne but go she would upon all parties of pleasure on which she heard her young friends were bent . 
It never entered into her thought but that they must be charmed with her company . 
She's been useful to you , my dear , George said to his wife , whom he could leave alone with less scruple when she had this society . 
But what a comfort it is that Rebecca's come you will have her for a friend , and we may get rid now of this damn'd Irishwoman . 
She favoured her friends with these and other opinions in a very loud tone of voice , and tossed about a great clattering fan she sported , with the most splendid complacency . 
That pretty woman in white is Amelia , General you are remarking all the pretty women , you naughty man . 
Only one , begad , in the world ! said the General , delighted , and the lady gave him a tap with a large bouquet which she had . 
, taking the compliment to herself , returned the salute with a gracious smile , which sent that unfortunate Dobbin shrieking out of the box again . 
At the end of the act , George was out of the box in a moment , and he was even going to pay his respects to Rebecca in her loge . 
He met Crawley in the lobby , however , where they exchanged a few sentences upon the occurrences of the last fortnight . 
You found my cheque all right at the agent's ? George said , with a knowing air . 
All right , my boy , Rawdon answered . 
Happy to give you your revenge . 
Governor come round ? Not yet , said George , but he will and you know I've some private fortune through my mother . 
Has Aunty relented ? Sent me twenty pound , damned old screw . 
When shall we have a meet ? The General dines out on Tuesday . 
Can't you come Tuesday ? I say , make Sedley cut off his moustache . 
What the devil does a civilian mean with a moustache and those infernal frogs to his coat ! By bye . 
Try and come on Tuesday and Rawdon was going off with two brilliant young gentlemen of fashion , who were , like himself , on the staff of a general officer . 
George was only half pleased to be asked to dinner on that particular day when the General was not to dine . 
George parted from them and strutted down the lobby to the General's box , the number of which he had carefully counted . 
How good of you to come . 
The General and I were moping together tete a tete . 
General , this is my Captain George of whom you heard me talk . 
Come home lately from the West Indies , I believe . 
Not seen much service in the late war . 
Quartered here , Captain George ? the General went on with killing haughtiness . 
Not Captain George , you stupid man Captain Osborne , Rebecca said . 
The General all the while was looking savagely from one to the other . 
Let ME go , I entreat you , George said . 
No , I will go to Amelia's box . 
Dear , sweet girl ! Give me your arm , Captain George and so saying , and with a nod to the General , she tripped into the lobby . 
He was thinking of his own plans , and lost in pompous admiration of his own irresistible powers of pleasing . 
Mrs. Rawdon saluted Jos , too , with the kindliest greeting she admired Mrs. O'Dowd's large Cairngorm brooch and superb Irish diamonds , and wouldn't believe that they were not from Golconda direct . 
She bustled , she chattered , she turned and twisted , and smiled upon one , and smirked on another , all in full view of the jealous opera glass opposite . 
, she skipped back to her own box , leaning on Captain Dobbin's arm this time . 
No , she would not have George's he must stay and talk to his dearest , best , little Amelia . 
She writhes and twists about like a snake . 
You ain't a man of the world , Dobbin . 
Dammy , look at her now , she's talked over Tufto in no time . 
Look how he's laughing ! Gad , what a shoulder she has ! Emmy , why didn't you have a bouquet ? Everybody has a bouquet . 
Faith , then , why didn't you BOY one ? Mrs. O'Dowd said and both Amelia and William Dobbin thanked her for this timely observation . 
But beyond this neither of the ladies rallied . 
Amelia was overpowered by the flash and the dazzle and the fashionable talk of her worldly rival . 
Even the O'Dowd was silent and subdued after Becky's brilliant apparition , and scarcely said a word more about Glenmalony all the evening . 
When do you intend to give up sermonising ? was the other's reply . 
What the deuce , man , are you alarmed about ? We play low I won last night . 
You don't suppose Crawley cheats ? With fair play it comes to pretty much the same thing at the year's end . 
But I don't think he could pay if he lost , Dobbin said and his advice met with the success which advice usually commands . 
Osborne and Crawley were repeatedly together now . 
General Tufto dined abroad almost constantly . 
which the aide de camp and his wife occupied in the hotel . 
Rebecca was doubly affectionate , of course , and would not take notice , in the least , of her friend's coolness . 
I think Emmy has become prouder since her father's name was in the since Mr. Sedley's MISFORTUNES , Rebecca said , softening the phrase charitably for George's ear . 
Pooh , jealousy ! answered George , all women are jealous . 
Will you dine here ? The dragon dines with the Commander in Chief . 
They say the French have crossed the frontier . 
We shall have a quiet dinner . 
George accepted the invitation , although his wife was a little ailing . 
They were now not quite six weeks married . 
Another woman was laughing or sneering at her expense , and he not angry . 
He was not even angry with himself , this good natured fellow . 
He rode with her whenever she was free . 
George was so occupied with his new acquaintances that he and William Dobbin were by no means so much together as formerly . 
George avoided him in public and in the regiment , and , as we see , did not like those sermons which his senior was disposed to inflict upon him . 
Our friend George was in the full career of the pleasures of Vanity Fair . 
A certain ball which a noble Duchess gave at Brussels on the th of June in the above named year is historical . 
Jos and Mrs. O'Dowd , who were panting to be asked , strove in vain to procure tickets but others of our friends were more lucky . 
Mr. and Mrs. Rawdon , finally , were of course invited as became the friends of a General commanding a cavalry brigade . 
Her thoughts were not of the pleasantest , and nobody except honest Dobbin came to disturb them . 
, Mrs. Rawdon Crawley's debut was , on the contrary , very brilliant . 
Her face was radiant her dress perfection . 
Numbers of the men she knew already , and the dandies thronged round her . 
As for the ladies , it was whispered among them that Rawdon had run away with her from out of a convent , and that she was a relation of the Montmorency family . 
She spoke French so perfectly that there might be some truth in this report , and it was agreed that her manners were fine , and her air distingue . 
Fifty would be partners thronged round her at once , and pressed to have the honour to dance with her . 
But she said she was engaged , and only going to dance very little and made her way at once to the place where Emmy sate quite unnoticed , and dismally unhappy . 
And so , to finish the poor child at once , Mrs. Rawdon ran and greeted affectionately her dearest Amelia , and began forthwith to patronise her . 
She found fault with her friend's dress , and her hairdresser , and wondered how she could be so chaussee , and vowed that she must send her corsetiere the next morning . 
She vowed that it was a delightful ball that there was everybody that every one knew , and only a VERY few nobodies in the whole room . 
George , who had left Emmy on her bench on entering the ball room , very soon found his way back when Rebecca was by her dear friend's side . 
Becky was just lecturing Mrs. Osborne upon the follies which her husband was committing . 
For God's sake , stop him from gambling , my dear , she said , or he will ruin himself . 
He and Rawdon are playing at cards every night , and you know he is very poor , and Rawdon will win every shilling from him if he does not take care . 
Where have you been , wretch ? Here is Emmy crying her eyes out for you . 
Are you coming to fetch me for the quadrille ? And she left her bouquet and shawl by Amelia's side , and tripped off with George to dance . 
Women only know how to wound so . 
There is a poison on the tips of their little shafts , which stings a thousand times more than a man's blunter weapon . 
Our poor Emmy , who had never hated , never sneered all her life , was powerless in the hands of her remorseless little enemy . 
George danced with Rebecca twice or thrice how many times Amelia scarcely knew . 
It is curious , when a man is bent upon play , by what clumsy rogues he will allow himself to be cheated , Dobbin said and Emmy said , Indeed . 
She was thinking of something else . 
It was not the loss of the money that grieved her . 
At last George came back for Rebecca's shawl and flowers . 
She did not even condescend to come back and say good bye to Amelia . 
The poor girl let her husband come and go without saying a word , and her head fell on her breast . 
Dobbin had been called away , and was whispering deep in conversation with the General of the division , his friend , and had not seen this last parting . 
George went away then with the bouquet but when he gave it to the owner , there lay a note , coiled like a snake among the flowers . 
Rebecca's eye caught it at once . 
She had been used to deal with notes in early life . 
She put out her hand and took the nosegay . 
He saw by her eyes as they met , that she was aware what she should find there . 
Her husband hurried her away , still too intent upon his own thoughts , seemingly , to take note of any marks of recognition which might pass between his friend and his wife . 
These were , however , but trifling . 
Rebecca gave George her hand with one of her usual quick knowing glances , and made a curtsey and walked away . 
His wife saw the one part at least of the bouquet scene . 
William , she said , suddenly clinging to Dobbin , who was near her , you've always been very kind to me I'm I'm not well . 
She did not know she called him by his Christian name , as George was accustomed to do . 
He went away with her quickly . 
Her lodgings were hard by and they threaded through the crowd without , where everything seemed to be more astir than even in the ball room within . 
Osborne meanwhile , wild with elation , went off to a play table , and began to bet frantically . 
Everything succeeds with me to night , he said . 
Here , as he was rattling away to the people around , laughing loudly and wild with spirits , Dobbin found him . 
He had been to the card tables to look there for his friend . 
Dobbin looked as pale and grave as his comrade was flushed and jovial . 
''Hullo , Dob ! Come and drink , old Dob ! The Duke's wine is famous . 
Give me some more , you sir and he held out a trembling glass for the liquor . 
Come out , George , said Dobbin , still gravely don't drink . 
Drink ! there's nothing like it . 
Drink yourself , and light up your lantern jaws , old boy . 
The enemy has passed the Sambre , William said , and our left is already engaged . 
We are to march in three hours . 
Away went George , his nerves quivering with excitement at the news so long looked for , so sudden when it came . 
In those few weeks he had frightfully dissipated his little capital . 
How wild and reckless he had been ! Should any mischance befall him what was then left for her ? How unworthy he was of her . 
Why had he married her ? He was not fit for marriage . 
Why had he disobeyed his father , who had been always so generous to him ? Hope , remorse , ambition , tenderness , and selfish regret filled his heart . 
He sate down and wrote to his father , remembering what he had said once before , when he was engaged to fight a duel . 
Dawn faintly streaked the sky as he closed this farewell letter . 
He sealed it , and kissed the superscription . 
He thought how he had deserted that generous father , and of the thousand kindnesses which the stern old man had done him . 
He had looked into Amelia's bedroom when he entered she lay quiet , and her eyes seemed closed , and he was glad that she was asleep . 
She had been awake when he first entered her room , but had kept her eyes closed , so that even her wakefulness should not seem to reproach him . 
George came in and looked at her again , entering still more softly . 
Two fair arms closed tenderly round his neck as he stooped down . 
I am awake , George , the poor child said , with a sob fit to break the little heart that nestled so closely by his own . 
CHAPTER XXX The Girl I Left Behind Me We do not claim to rank among the military novelists . 
Our place is with the non combatants . 
When the decks are cleared for action we go below and wait meekly . 
We should only be in the way of the manoeuvres that the gallant fellows are performing overhead . 
I'd like ye wake me about half an hour before the assembly beats , the Major said to his lady . 
Call me at half past one , Peggy dear , and see me things is ready . 
May be I'll not come back to breakfast , Mrs. O'D . 
With which words , which signified his opinion that the regiment would march the next morning , the Major ceased talking , and fell asleep . 
Mrs. O'Dowd , the good housewife , arrayed in curl papers and a camisole , felt that her duty was to act , and not to sleep , at this juncture . 
knelled forth that fatal hour , Mrs. O'Dowd woke up her Major , and had as comfortable a cup of coffee prepared for him as any made that morning in Brussels . 
On Sundays , and at periods of a solemn nature , Mrs. O'Dowd used to read with great gravity out of a large volume of her uncle the Dean's sermons . 
It had been of great comfort to her on board the transport as they were coming home , and were very nearly wrecked , on their return from the West Indies . 
So it is in the world . 
Jack or Donald marches away to glory with his knapsack on his shoulder , stepping out briskly to the tune of The Girl I Left Behind Me . 
It is she who remains and suffers and has the leisure to think , and brood , and remember . 
Indeed Captain Rawdon himself was much more affected at the leave taking than the resolute little woman to whom he bade farewell . 
She had mastered this rude coarse nature and he loved and worshipped her with all his faculties of regard and admiration . 
In all his life he had never been so happy , as , during the past few months , his wife had made him . 
And he cursed his past follies and extravagances , and bemoaned his vast outlying debts above all , which must remain for ever as obstacles to prevent his wife's advancement in the world . 
He had often groaned over these in midnight conversations with Rebecca , although as a bachelor they had never given him any disquiet . 
He himself was struck with this phenomenon . 
But since I'm married , except renewing , of course , I give you my honour I've not touched a bit of stamped paper . 
Rebecca always knew how to conjure away these moods of melancholy . 
Why , my stupid love , she would say , we have not done with your aunt yet . 
If she fails us , isn't there what you call the Gazette ? or , stop , when your uncle Bute's life drops , I have another scheme . 
But these were mere by gone days and talk . 
You don't suppose I'm afraid , Becky , I should think , he said , with a tremor in his voice . 
It is no laughing matter that , Mrs. C. , anyways . 
Rebecca by a hundred caresses and kind words tried to soothe the feelings of the wounded lover . 
that she would break out with her satire , but she could soon put on a demure face . 
Dearest love , she said , do you suppose I feel nothing ? and hastily dashing something from her eyes , she looked up in her husband's face with a smile . 
Look here , said he . 
If I drop , let us see what there is for you . 
I have had a pretty good run of luck here , and here's two hundred and thirty pounds . 
I have got ten Napoleons in my pocket . 
That is as much as I shall want for the General pays everything like a prince and if I'm hit , why you know I cost nothing . 
Don't cry , little woman I may live to vex you yet . 
Well , I shan't take either of my horses , but shall ride the General's grey charger it's cheaper , and I told him mine was lame . 
If I'm done , those two ought to fetch you something . 
Grigg offered ninety for the mare yesterday , before this confounded news came , and like a fool I wouldn't let her go under the two o's . 
Your little mare the General gave you will fetch something , and there's no d d livery stable bills here as there are in London , Rawdon added , with a laugh . 
There's that dressing case cost me two hundred that is , I owe two for it and the gold tops and bottles must be worth thirty or forty . 
Please to put THAT up the spout , ma'am , with my pins , and rings , and watch and chain , and things . 
They cost a precious lot of money . 
Miss Crawley , I know , paid a hundred down for the chain and ticker . 
Gold tops and bottles , indeed ! dammy , I'm sorry I didn't take more now . 
Edwards pressed on me a silver gilt boot jack , and I might have had a dressing case fitted up with a silver warming pan , and a service of plate . 
But we must make the best of what we've got , Becky , you know . 
, pounds my regulation saddle holsters and housings my Laurie ditto , and so forth , over all of which articles he made Rebecca the mistress . 
He took her up from the ground , and held her in his arms for a minute , tight pressed against his strong beating heart . 
His face was purple and his eyes dim , as he put her down and left her . 
And Rebecca , as we have said , wisely determined not to give way to unavailing sentimentality on her husband's departure . 
She waved him an adieu from the window , and stood there for a moment looking out after he was gone . 
The cathedral towers and the full gables of the quaint old houses were just beginning to blush in the sunrise . 
There had been no rest for her that night . 
She was still in her pretty ball dress , her fair hair hanging somewhat out of curl on her neck , and the circles round her eyes dark with watching . 
And then she put her bouquet of the ball into a glass of water , and went to bed , and slept very comfortably . 
The town was quite quiet when she woke up at ten o'clock , and partook of coffee , very requisite and comforting after the exhaustion and grief of the morning's occurrences . 
This meal over , she resumed honest Rawdon's calculations of the night previous , and surveyed her position . 
Should the worst befall , all things considered , she was pretty well to do . 
There were her own trinkets and trousseau , in addition to those which her husband had left behind . 
Rawdon's generosity , when they were first married , has already been described and lauded . 
As for tickers , as poor Rawdon called watches , her apartments were alive with their clicking . 
General Tufto had bought one , and Captain Osborne had gallantly presented the other . 
Among the notes in Rawdon's pocket book was a draft for twenty pounds on Osborne's banker . 
This made her think about Mrs. Osborne . 
I will go and get the draft cashed , she said , and pay a visit afterwards to poor little Emmy . 
If this is a novel without a hero , at least let us lay claim to a heroine . 
And there was another of our acquaintances who was also to be left behind , a non combatant , and whose emotions and behaviour we have therefore a right to know . 
This was our friend the ex collector of Boggley Wollah , whose rest was broken , like other people's , by the sounding of the bugles in the early morning . 
Very kind of you , said Jos , yawning , and wishing the Captain at the deuce . 
What do you mean ? Jos asked , rubbing his eyes . 
The Captain did not in the least hear him or look at the stout gentleman in the nightcap , about whom he professed to have such a tender interest . 
Jos had always had rather a mean opinion of the Captain , and now began to think his courage was somewhat equivocal . 
What is it I can do for you , Dobbin ? he said , in a sarcastic tone . 
Mind you , you are not to stir from this town until you ascertain how things go . 
You are to stay here and watch over your sister , and comfort her , and see that no harm comes to her . 
If anything happens to George , remember she has no one but you in the world to look to . 
If it goes wrong with the army , you'll see her safe back to England and you will promise me on your word that you will never desert her . 
I know you won't as far as money goes , you were always free enough with that . 
And as for my sister , you needn't tell me how I ought to behave to her . 
You speak like a man of spirit , Jos , the other answered good naturedly , and I am glad that George can leave her in such good hands . 
And you'll see her safe out of Brussels in the event of a defeat ? A defeat ! D it , sir , it's impossible . 
At least , thought the Captain , there will be a retreat secured for her in case the worst should ensue . 
The door of Jos's bedroom opened into the sitting room which was common to the family party , and opposite this door was that of Amelia's chamber . 
The bugles had wakened everybody there was no use in concealment now . 
George's servant was packing in this room Osborne coming in and out of the contiguous bedroom , flinging to the man such articles as he thought fit to carry on the campaign . 
And presently Dobbin had the opportunity which his heart coveted , and he got sight of Amelia's face once more . 
She was wrapped in a white morning dress , her hair falling on her shoulders , and her large eyes fixed and without light . 
She came out and stood , leaning at the wall , holding this sash against her bosom , from which the heavy net of crimson dropped like a large stain of blood . 
Our gentle hearted Captain felt a guilty shock as he looked at her . 
He stood for a moment and looked at her , powerless and torn with pity , as a parent regards an infant in pain . 
At last , George took Emmy's hand , and led her back into the bedroom , from whence he came out alone . 
The parting had taken place in that moment , and he was gone . 
, that he should have been detained there so long . 
He looked up , and smiled at Amelia , and passed on and even the sound of the music died away . 
The sun was high in the heavens , and our gallant friends of the th miles on their march , before the civilian appeared in his flowered dressing gown at breakfast . 
About George's absence , his brother in law was very easy in mind . 
But Emmy had always been good and attentive to him . 
and who interposed her sweet face between his anger and her husband's scorn . 
Many timid remonstrances had she uttered to George in behalf of her brother , but the former in his trenchant way cut these entreaties short . 
I'm an honest man , he said , and if I have a feeling I show it , as an honest man will . 
How the deuce , my dear , would you have me behave respectfully to such a fool as your brother ? So Jos was pleased with George's absence . 
His plain hat , and gloves on a sideboard , and the idea that the owner was away , caused Jos I don't know what secret thrill of pleasure . 
HE won't be troubling me this morning , Jos thought , with his dandified airs and his impudence . 
Put the Captain's hat into the ante room , he said to Isidor , the servant . 
Perhaps he won't want it again , replied the lackey , looking knowingly at his master . 
He hated George too , whose insolence towards him was quite of the English sort . 
And ask if Madame is coming to breakfast , Mr. Sedley said with great majesty , ashamed to enter with a servant upon the subject of his dislike for George . 
The truth is , he had abused his brother to the valet a score of times before . 
Alas ! Madame could not come to breakfast , and cut the tartines that Mr. Jos liked . 
Madame was a great deal too ill , and had been in a frightful state ever since her husband's departure , so her bonne said . 
, and secondly , he was angry that so many valuables should be removed from under his hands , to fall into other people's possession when the English discomfiture should arrive . 
Of this defeat he and a vast number of other persons in Brussels and Belgium did not make the slightest doubt . 
As he helped Jos through his toilsome and complicated daily toilette , this faithful servant would calculate what he should do with the very articles with which he was decorating his master's person . 
How those sleeve buttons will suit me ! thought he , as he fixed a pair on the fat pudgy wrists of Mr. Sedley . 
Amelia's attendant was much less selfishly disposed . 
Few dependents could come near that kind and gentle creature without paying their usual tribute of loyalty and affection to her sweet and affectionate nature . 
Almost all these gentlemen were in heart partisans of the Emperor , and had their opinions about the speedy end of the campaign . 
The Emperor's proclamation from Avesnes had been distributed everywhere plentifully in Brussels . 
Soldiers ! it said , this is the anniversary of Marengo and Friedland , by which the destinies of Europe were twice decided . 
Then , as after Austerlitz , as after Wagram , we were too generous . 
We believed in the oaths and promises of princes whom we suffered to remain upon their thrones . 
Let us march once more to meet them . 
Those among you who were prisoners in England can tell their comrades what frightful torments they suffered on board the English hulks . 
These opinions in the course of the day were brought to operate upon Mr. Sedley . 
He was told that the Duke of Wellington had gone to try and rally his army , the advance of which had been utterly crushed the night before . 
Crushed , psha ! said Jos , whose heart was pretty stout at breakfast time . 
The Duke has gone to beat the Emperor as he has beaten all his generals before . 
His papers are burned , his effects are removed , and his quarters are being got ready for the Duke of Dalmatia , Jos's informant replied . 
I had it from his own maitre d'hotel . 
Milor Duc de Richemont's people are packing up everything . 
His Grace has fled already , and the Duchess is only waiting to see the plate packed to join the King of France at Ostend . 
The King of France is at Ghent , fellow , replied Jos , affecting incredulity . 
He fled last night to Bruges , and embarks today from Ostend . 
The Duc de Berri is taken prisoner . 
He must , he shall be crushed , Jos said , slapping his hand on the table . 
The Prussians were three to one at Jena , and he took their army and kingdom in a week . 
They were six to one at Montmirail , and he scattered them like sheep . 
The Austrian army is coming , but with the Empress and the King of Rome at its head and the Russians , bah ! the Russians will withdraw . 
No quarter is to be given to the English , on account of their cruelty to our braves on board the infamous pontoons . 
Look here , here it is in black and white . 
Jos was , if not seriously alarmed as yet , at least considerably disturbed in mind . 
Give me my coat and cap , sir , said he , and follow me . 
I will go myself and learn the truth of these reports . 
Isidor was furious as Jos put on the braided frock . 
not wear that military coat , said he the Frenchmen have sworn not to give quarter to a single British soldier . 
She laughed at the attitude in which Jos was discovered , and the struggles and convulsions with which the stout gentleman thrust himself into the braided coat . 
Are you preparing to join the army , Mr. Joseph ? she said . 
How good of you to ask , said she , pressing one of his hands in both her own . 
How cool and collected you look when everybody else is frightened ! How is our dear little Emmy ? It must have been an awful , awful parting . 
You men can bear anything , replied the lady . 
Parting or danger are nothing to you . 
Own now that you were going to join the army and leave us to our fate . 
I know you were something tells me you were . 
, that I ran off immediately to beg and entreat you not to fly from us . 
I don't know whether Jos understood the words in this sense . 
But he was profoundly mortified by the lady's inattention to him during their stay at Brussels . 
Ah ! thought Jos , now she wants me she comes to me . 
When there is nobody else in the way she can think about old Joseph Sedley ! But besides these doubts he felt flattered at the idea Rebecca expressed of his courage . 
He blushed a good deal , and put on an air of importance . 
I should like to see the action , he said . 
Every man of any spirit would , you know . 
I've seen a little service in India , but nothing on this grand scale . 
You men would sacrifice anything for a pleasure , Rebecca answered . 
Captain Crawley left me this morning as gay as if he were going to a hunting party . 
Oh ! dear Mr. Sedley , I have come to you for comfort for consolation . 
I have been on my knees all the morning . 
I tremble at the frightful danger into which our husbands , our friends , our brave troops and allies , are rushing . 
I only said I should like to go what Briton would not ? But my duty keeps me here I can't leave that poor creature in the next room . 
And he pointed with his finger to the door of the chamber in which Amelia was . 
Good noble brother ! Rebecca said , putting her handkerchief to her eyes , and smelling the eau de cologne with which it was scented . 
I have done you injustice you have got a heart . 
I thought you had not . 
O , upon my honour ! Jos said , making a motion as if he would lay his hand upon the spot in question . 
You do me injustice , indeed you do my dear Mrs. Crawley . 
I do , now your heart is true to your sister . 
But I remember two years ago when it was false to me ! Rebecca said , fixing her eyes upon him for an instant , and then turning away into the window . 
That organ which he was accused by Rebecca of not possessing began to thump tumultuously . 
I know you think me ungrateful , Rebecca continued , coming out of the window , and once more looking at him and addressing him in a low tremulous voice . 
Your coldness , your averted looks , your manner when we have met of late when I came in just now , all proved it to me . 
But were there no reasons why I should avoid you ? Let your own heart answer that question . 
have been about you and most cruel , cruel words they were . 
Good gracious ! what have I done ? asked Jos in a flurry of pleasure and perplexity what have I done to to ? Is jealousy nothing ? said Rebecca . 
He makes me miserable about you . 
And whatever it might have been once my heart is all his . 
Am I not , Mr. Sedley ? All Jos's blood tingled with delight , as he surveyed this victim to his attractions . 
A few adroit words , one or two knowing tender glances of the eyes , and his heart was inflamed again and his doubts and suspicions forgotten . 
Jos , who was just going to gasp out an avowal , choked almost with the emotion that he was obliged to restrain . 
Rebecca too bethought her that it was time she should go in and comfort her dearest Amelia . 
Au revoir , she said , kissing her hand to Mr. Joseph , and tapped gently at the door of his sister's apartment . 
As she entered and closed the door on herself , he sank down in a chair , and gazed and sighed and puffed portentously . 
Rebecca's appearance struck Amelia with terror , and made her shrink back . 
It recalled her to the world and the remembrance of yesterday . 
In the overpowering fears about to morrow she had forgotten Rebecca jealousy everything except that her husband was gone and was in danger . 
Until this dauntless worldling came in and broke the spell , and lifted the latch , we too have forborne to enter into that sad chamber . 
These are too mean parts of the pageant and you don't hear widows' cries or mothers' sobs in the midst of the shouts and jubilation in the great Chorus of Victory . 
Dearest Amelia , you are very unwell , the visitor said , putting forth her hand to take Amelia's . 
What is it ? I could not rest until I knew how you were . 
Amelia drew back her hand never since her life began had that gentle soul refused to believe or to answer any demonstration of good will or affection . 
But she drew back her hand , and trembled all over . 
Why are you here , Rebecca ? she said , still looking at her solemnly with her large eyes . 
These glances troubled her visitor . 
She must have seen him give me the letter at the ball , Rebecca thought . 
Don't be agitated , dear Amelia , she said , looking down . 
I came but to see if I could if you were well . 
Are you well ? said Amelia . 
I dare say you are . 
You don't love your husband . 
You would not be here if you did . 
Tell me , Rebecca , did I ever do you anything but kindness ? Indeed , Amelia , no , the other said , still hanging down her head . 
When you were quite poor , who was it that befriended you ? Was I not a sister to you ? You saw us all in happier days before he married me . 
You knew it , and wanted to rob me of it . 
For shame , Rebecca bad and wicked woman false friend and false wife . 
Amelia , I protest before God , I have done my husband no wrong , Rebecca said , turning from her . 
Have you done me no wrong , Rebecca ? You did not succeed , but you tried . 
Ask your heart if you did not . 
She knows nothing , Rebecca thought . 
He came back to me . 
I knew that no falsehood , no flattery , could keep him from me long . 
I knew he would come . 
I prayed so that he should . 
The poor girl spoke these words with a spirit and volubility which Rebecca had never before seen in her , and before which the latter was quite dumb . 
But what have I done to you , she continued in a more pitiful tone , that you should try and take him from me ? I had him but for six weeks . 
You might have spared me those , Rebecca . 
And yet , from the very first day of our wedding , you came and blighted it . 
Now he is gone , are you come to see how unhappy I am ? she continued . 
You made me wretched enough for the past fortnight you might have spared me to day . 
I I never came here , interposed Rebecca , with unlucky truth . 
Are you come to fetch him from me ? she continued in a wilder tone . 
He was here , but he is gone now . 
There on that very sofa he sate . 
We sate and talked there . 
I was on his knee , and my arms were round his neck , and we said 'Our Father . 
Yes , he was here and they came and took him away , but he promised me to come back . 
He will come back , my dear , said Rebecca , touched in spite of herself . 
Look , said Amelia , this is his sash isn't it a pretty colour ? '' and she took up the fringe and kissed it . 
She had tied it round her waist at some part of the day . 
She had forgotten her anger , her jealousy , the very presence of her rival seemingly . 
For she walked silently and almost with a smile on her face , towards the bed , and began to smooth down George's pillow . 
Rebecca walked , too , silently away . 
How is Amelia ? asked Jos , who still held his position in the chair . 
There should be somebody with her , said Rebecca . 
Rebecca was of a good natured and obliging disposition and she liked Amelia rather than otherwise . 
Even her hard words , reproachful as they were , were complimentary the groans of a person stinging under defeat . 
I've cares of my own enough , Mrs. O'Dowd said , gravely , and I thought poor Amelia would be little wanting for company this day . 
Becky watched her marching off , with a smile on her lip . 
She had the keenest sense of humour , and the Parthian look which the retreating Mrs. O'Dowd flung over her shoulder almost upset Mrs. Crawley's gravity . 
My service to ye , me fine Madam , and I'm glad to see ye so cheerful , thought Peggy . 
It's not YOU that will cry your eyes out with grief , anyway . 
And with this she passed on , and speedily found her way to Mrs. Osborne's lodgings . 
The poor soul was still at the bedside , where Rebecca had left her , and stood almost crazy with grief . 
The Major's wife , a stronger minded woman , endeavoured her best to comfort her young friend . 
You must bear up , Amelia , dear , she said kindly , for he mustn't find you ill when he sends for you after the victory . 
It's not you are the only woman that are in the hands of God this day . 
I am very wicked , very weak , Amelia said . 
She knew her own weakness well enough . 
The presence of the more resolute friend checked it , however and she was the better of this control and company . 
They went on till two o'clock their hearts were with the column as it marched farther and farther away . 
Dreadful doubt and anguish prayers and fears and griefs unspeakable followed the regiment . 
It was the women's tribute to the war . 
It taxes both alike , and takes the blood of the men , and the tears of the women . 
At half past two , an event occurred of daily importance to Mr. Joseph the dinner hour arrived . 
Warriors may fight and perish , but he must dine . 
He came into Amelia's room to see if he could coax her to share that meal . 
Try , said he the soup is very good . 
Do try , Emmy , and he kissed her hand . 
Except when she was married , he had not done so much for years before . 
You are very good and kind , Joseph , she said . 
Everybody is , but , if you please , I will stay in my room to day . 
The savour of the soup , however , was agreeable to Mrs. O'Dowd's nostrils and she thought she would bear Mr. Jos company . 
So the two sate down to their meal . 
Jos's spirits rose with his meal . 
He would drink the regiment's health or , indeed , take any other excuse to indulge in a glass of champagne . 
We'll drink to O'Dowd and the brave th , said he , bowing gallantly to his guest . 
Hey , Mrs. O'Dowd ? Fill Mrs. O'Dowd's glass , Isidor . 
But all of a sudden , Isidor started , and the Major's wife laid down her knife and fork . 
The windows of the room were open , and looked southward , and a dull distant sound came over the sun lighted roofs from that direction . 
''What is it ? said Jos . 
Why don't you pour , you rascal ? Cest le feu ! said Isidor , running to the balcony . 
God defend us it's cannon ! Mrs. O'Dowd cried , starting up , and followed too to the window . 
A thousand pale and anxious faces might have been seen looking from other casements . 
And presently it seemed as if the whole population of the city rushed into the streets . 
Crowds rushed to the Namur gate , from which direction the noise proceeded , and many rode along the level chaussee , to be in advance of any intelligence from the army . 
Each man asked his neighbour for news and even great English lords and ladies condescended to speak to persons whom they did not know . 
The friends of the French went abroad , wild with excitement , and prophesying the triumph of their Emperor . 
The merchants closed their shops , and came out to swell the general chorus of alarm and clamour . 
Women rushed to the churches , and crowded the chapels , and knelt and prayed on the flags and steps . 
The dull sound of the cannon went on rolling , rolling . 
Presently carriages with travellers began to leave the town , galloping away by the Ghent barrier . 
The prophecies of the French partisans began to pass for facts . 
He has cut the armies in two , it was said . 
He is marching straight on Brussels . 
He will overpower the English , and be here to night . 
He will overpower the English , shrieked Isidor to his master , and will be here to night . 
The man bounded in and out from the lodgings to the street , always returning with some fresh particulars of disaster . 
Jos's face grew paler and paler . 
Alarm began to take entire possession of the stout civilian . 
All the champagne he drank brought no courage to him . 
The women were away all this time . 
The idea that she had that helpless and gentle creature to protect , gave additional strength to the natural courage of the honest Irishwoman . 
She passed five hours by her friend's side , sometimes in remonstrance , sometimes talking cheerfully , oftener in silence and terrified mental supplication . 
I never let go her hand once , said the stout lady afterwards , until after sunset , when the firing was over . 
Pauline , the bonne , was on her knees at church hard by , praying for son homme a elle . 
When the noise of the cannonading was over , Mrs. O'Dowd issued out of Amelia's room into the parlour adjoining , where Jos sate with two emptied flasks , and courage entirely gone . 
Once or twice he had ventured into his sister's bedroom , looking very much alarmed , and as if he would say something . 
But the Major's wife kept her place , and he went away without disburthening himself of his speech . 
He was ashamed to tell her that he wanted to fly . 
I I've ordered the carriage , he said , and and post horses Isidor is gone for them , Jos continued . 
What do you want with driving to night ? answered the lady . 
Isn't she better on her bed ? I've just got her to lie down . 
Get her up , said Jos she must get up , I say and he stamped his foot energetically . 
I say the horses are ordered yes , the horses are ordered . 
It's all over , and And what ? asked Mrs. O'Dowd . 
I'm off for Ghent , Jos answered . 
Everybody is going there's a place for you ! We shall start in half an hour . 
The Major's wife looked at him with infinite scorn . 
I don't move till O'Dowd gives me the route , said she . 
You may go if you like , Mr. Sedley but , faith , Amelia and I stop here . 
She SHALL go , said Jos , with another stamp of his foot . 
Mrs. O'Dowd put herself with arms akimbo before the bedroom door . 
Bon voyage , as they say , and take my counsel , and shave off them mustachios , or they'll bring you into mischief . 
D n ! yelled out Jos , wild with fear , rage , and mortification and Isidor came in at this juncture , swearing in his turn . 
Pas de chevaux , sacre bleu ! hissed out the furious domestic . 
All the horses were gone . 
Jos was not the only man in Brussels seized with panic that day . 
But Jos's fears , great and cruel as they were already , were destined to increase to an almost frantic pitch before the night was over . 
It has been mentioned how Pauline , the bonne , had son homme a elle also in the ranks of the army that had gone out to meet the Emperor Napoleon . 
This lover was a native of Brussels , and a Belgian hussar . 
As far as his regiment was concerned , this campaign was over now . 
Their movements were only checked by the advance of the British in their rear . 
The regiment in fact did not exist any more . 
It had no head quarters . 
He looked as pale as the midnight dragoon who came to disturb Leonora . 
Pauline would have screamed , but that her cry would have called her masters , and discovered her friend . 
The hussar showed he was no ghost by the prodigious quantity of flesh and beer which he devoured and during the mouthfuls he told his tale of disaster . 
His regiment had performed prodigies of courage , and had withstood for a while the onset of the whole French army . 
But they were overwhelmed at last , as was the whole British army by this time . 
Ney destroyed each regiment as it came up . 
The Belgians in vain interposed to prevent the butchery of the English . 
The Brunswickers were routed and had fled their Duke was killed . 
It was a general debacle . 
He sought to drown his sorrow for the defeat in floods of beer . 
Isidor , who had come into the kitchen , heard the conversation and rushed out to inform his master . 
It is all over , he shrieked to Jos . 
So Jos tottered into that apartment where Regulus still sate on the kitchen table , and clung fast to his flagon of beer . 
In the best French which he could muster , and which was in sooth of a very ungrammatical sort , Jos besought the hussar to tell his tale . 
The disasters deepened as Regulus spoke . 
He was the only man of his regiment not slain on the field . 
He had seen the Duke of Brunswick fall , the black hussars fly , the Ecossais pounded down by the cannon . 
And the th ? gasped Jos . 
Wild with terror , Mr. Sedley knew not how or where to seek for safety . 
Such is the force of habit , that even in the midst of his terror he began mechanically to twiddle with his hair , and arrange the cock of his hat . 
Jos had sunk in a chair he had torn off his neckcloths , and turned down his collars , and was sitting with both his hands lifted to his throat . 
Coupez moi , Isidor , shouted he vite ! Coupez moi ! Isidor thought for a moment he had gone mad , and that he wished his valet to cut his throat . 
Les moustaches , gasped Joe les moustaches coupy , rasy , vite ! his French was of this sort voluble , as we have said , but not remarkable for grammar . 
Isidor swept off the mustachios in no time with the razor , and heard with inexpressible delight his master's orders that he should fetch a hat and a plain coat . 
Ne porty ploo habit militair bonn bonny a voo , prenny dehors were Jos's words the coat and cap were at last his property . 
This gift being made , Jos selected a plain black coat and waistcoat from his stock , and put on a large white neckcloth , and a plain beaver . 
If he could have got a shovel hat he would have worn it . 
As it was , you would have fancied he was a flourishing , large parson of the Church of England . 
Venny maintenong , he continued , sweevy ally party dong la roo . 
And so having said , he plunged swiftly down the stairs of the house , and passed into the street . 
The arrival of the French was expected hourly the panic continued , and preparations for flight went on everywhere . 
No horses ! thought Jos , in terror . 
He made Isidor inquire of scores of persons , whether they had any to lend or sell , and his heart sank within him , at the negative answers returned everywhere . 
Should he take the journey on foot ? Even fear could not render that ponderous body so active . 
Rebecca Crawley occupied apartments in this hotel and had before this period had sundry hostile meetings with the ladies of the Bareacres family . 
My Lady Bareacres cut Mrs. Crawley on the stairs when they met by chance and in all places where the latter's name was mentioned , spoke perseveringly ill of her neighbour . 
The Countess was shocked at the familiarity of General Tufto with the aide de camp's wife . 
The Lady Blanche avoided her as if she had been an infectious disease . 
Only the Earl himself kept up a sly occasional acquaintance with her , when out of the jurisdiction of his ladies . 
Rebecca had her revenge now upon these insolent enemies . 
Mrs. Crawley returned a note with her compliments , and an intimation that it was not her custom to transact bargains with ladies' maids . 
This curt reply brought the Earl in person to Becky's apartment but he could get no more success than the first ambassador . 
What will not necessity do ? The Countess herself actually came to wait upon Mrs. Crawley on the failure of her second envoy . 
She entreated her to name her own price she even offered to invite Becky to Bareacres House , if the latter would but give her the means of returning to that residence . 
Mrs. Crawley sneered at her . 
I don't want to be waited on by bailiffs in livery , she said you will never get back though most probably at least not you and your diamonds together . 
The French will have those They will be here in two hours , and I shall be half way to Ghent by that time . 
I would not sell you my horses , no , not for the two largest diamonds that your Ladyship wore at the ball . 
Lady Bareacres trembled with rage and terror . 
The diamonds were sewed into her habit , and secreted in my Lord's padding and boots . 
Woman , the diamonds are at the banker's , and I WILL have the horses , she said . 
Rebecca laughed in her face . 
Lady Bareacres could have shot her from the carriage window . 
It was while enjoying the humiliation of her enemy that Rebecca caught sight of Jos , who made towards her directly he perceived her . 
That altered , frightened , fat face , told his secret well enough . 
He too wanted to fly , and was on the look out for the means of escape . 
HE shall buy my horses , thought Rebecca , and I'll ride the mare . 
I thought you were the champion of all the ladies , Mr. Sedley . 
I I'm not a military man , gasped he . 
And Amelia ? Who is to protect that poor little sister of yours ? asked Rebecca . 
You surely would not desert her ? What good can I do her , suppose suppose the enemy arrive ? Jos answered . 
They'll spare the women but my man tells me that they have taken an oath to give no quarter to the men the dastardly cowards . 
Horrid ! cried Rebecca , enjoying his perplexity . 
Besides , I don't want to desert her , cried the brother . 
Jos could have flung himself into her arms at the news . 
Get the carriage , Isidor , he cried we've found them we have found them . 
My horses never were in harness , added the lady . 
Bullfinch would kick the carriage to pieces , if you put him in the traces . 
But he is quiet to ride ? asked the civilian . 
As quiet as a lamb , and as fast as a hare , answered Rebecca . 
Do you think he is up to my weight ? Jos said . 
He was already on his back , in imagination , without ever so much as a thought for poor Amelia . 
Jos seldom spent a half hour in his life which cost him so much money . 
She would sell both or neither , she said , resolutely . 
Rawdon had ordered her not to part with them for a price less than that which she specified . 
Jos ended by agreeing , as might be supposed of him . 
Once or twice in the day she certainly had herself thought about flying . 
But her reason gave her better counsel . 
Suppose the French do come , thought Becky , what can they do to a poor officer's widow ? Bah ! the times of sacks and sieges are over . 
We shall be let to go home quietly , or I may live pleasantly abroad with a snug little income . 
Meanwhile Jos and Isidor went off to the stables to inspect the newly purchased cattle . 
Jos bade his man saddle the horses at once . 
He would ride away that very night , that very hour . 
And he left the valet busy in getting the horses ready , and went homewards himself to prepare for his departure . 
He would go to his chamber by the back entrance . 
He did not care to face Mrs. O'Dowd and Amelia , and own to them that he was about to run . 
By the time Jos's bargain with Rebecca was completed , and his horses had been visited and examined , it was almost morning once more . 
This last rumour gradually got strength . 
No Frenchmen had made their appearance . 
The aide de camp must have arrived sometime while Jos and Rebecca were making their bargain together , or the latter was inspecting his purchase . 
When he reached his own hotel , he found a score of its numerous inhabitants on the threshold discoursing of the news there was no doubt as to its truth . 
And he went up to communicate it to the ladies under his charge . 
But success or defeat was a minor matter to them , who had only thought for the safety of those they loved . 
Amelia , at the news of the victory , became still more agitated even than before . 
She was for going that moment to the army . 
She besought her brother with tears to conduct her thither . 
Jos could not bear the sight of her pain . 
It grew to be broad daylight as they stood here , and fresh news began to arrive from the war , brought by men who had been actors in the scene . 
Wagons and long country carts laden with wounded came rolling into the town ghastly groans came from within them , and haggard faces looked up sadly from out of the straw . 
Jos Sedley was looking at one of these carriages with a painful curiosity the moans of the people within were frightful the wearied horses could hardly pull the cart . 
Stop ! stop ! a feeble voice cried from the straw , and the carriage stopped opposite Mr. Sedley's hotel . 
It is George , I know it is ! cried Amelia , rushing in a moment to the balcony , with a pallid face and loose flowing hair . 
It was not George , however , but it was the next best thing it was news of him . 
A French lancer had speared the young ensign in the leg , who fell , still bravely holding to his flag . 
At the conclusion of the engagement , a place had been found for the poor boy in a cart , and he had been brought back to Brussels . 
Mr. Sedley , Mr. Sedley ! cried the boy , faintly , and Jos came up almost frightened at the appeal . 
He had not at first distinguished who it was that called him . 
Little Tom Stubble held out his hot and feeble hand . 
I'm to be taken in here , he said . 
Osborne and and Dobbin said I was and you are to give the man two napoleons my mother will pay you . 
The hotel was large , and the people kind , and all the inmates of the cart were taken in and placed on various couches . 
The young ensign was conveyed upstairs to Osborne's quarters . 
Amelia and the Major's wife had rushed down to him , when the latter had recognised him from the balcony . 
Our young lady , in her fevered and nervous condition , could have had no more salutary medicine prescribed for her by any physician than that which chance put in her way . 
The young patient told in his simple fashion the events of the day , and the actions of our friends of the gallant th . 
They had lost very many officers and men . 
It was Captain Osborne that cut down the French lancer who had speared the ensign . 
Amelia turned so pale at the notion , that Mrs. O'Dowd stopped the young ensign in this story . 
Indeed , but he has a good heart that William Dobbin , Mrs. O'Dowd said , though he is always laughing at me . 
In tending her patient , and in thinking of the wonderful escapes of the day before , her second day passed away not too slowly with Amelia . 
There was only one man in the army for her and as long as he was well , it must be owned that its movements interested her little . 
The French had been repulsed certainly , but it was after a severe and doubtful struggle , and with only a division of the French army . 
The Duke of Wellington was retreating upon the capital , and a great battle must be fought under its walls probably , of which the chances were more than doubtful . 
Under Napoleon ! What warrior was there , however famous and skilful , that could fight at odds with him ? Jos thought of all these things , and trembled . 
So did all the rest of Brussels where people felt that the fight of the day before was but the prelude to the greater combat which was imminent . 
One of the armies opposed to the Emperor was scattered to the winds already . 
The few English that could be brought to resist him would perish at their posts , and the conqueror would pass over their bodies into the city . 
The emigration still continued , and wherever families could find means of departure , they fled . 
When Jos , on the afternoon of the th of June , went to Rebecca's hotel , he found that the great Bareacres' carriage had at length rolled away from the porte cochere . 
The Earl had procured a pair of horses somehow , in spite of Mrs. Crawley , and was rolling on the road to Ghent . 
Louis the Desired was getting ready his portmanteau in that city , too . 
It seemed as if Misfortune was never tired of worrying into motion that unwieldy exile . 
Jos felt that the delay of yesterday had been only a respite , and that his dearly bought horses must of a surety be put into requisition . 
His agonies were very severe all this day . 
Isidor watched the stable door constantly , and had the horses saddled , to be ready for the start . 
He longed intensely for that event . 
After the reception of the previous day , Rebecca did not care to come near her dear Amelia . 
She clipped the bouquet which George had brought her , and gave fresh water to the flowers , and read over the letter which he had sent her . 
My poor good Rawdon is worth ten of this creature . 
The next day was a Sunday . 
And Mrs. Major O'Dowd had the satisfaction of seeing both her patients refreshed in health and spirits by some rest which they had taken during the night . 
She herself had slept on a great chair in Amelia's room , ready to wait upon her poor friend or the ensign , should either need her nursing . 
When morning came , this robust woman went back to the house where she and her Major had their billet and here performed an elaborate and splendid toilette , befitting the day . 
They did not hear the noise which disturbed our little congregation at Brussels . 
Much louder than that which had interrupted them two days previously , as Mrs. O'Dowd was reading the service in her best voice , the cannon of Waterloo began to roar . 
When Jos heard that dreadful sound , he made up his mind that he would bear this perpetual recurrence of terrors no longer , and would fly at once . 
I have bought a horse for you never mind at what price and you must dress and come with me , and ride behind Isidor . 
God forgive me , Mr. Sedley , but you are no better than a coward , Mrs. O'Dowd said , laying down the book . 
No harm shall come to you while I stand by . 
I don't budge till I get the word from Mick . 
Good bye , then , he said , shaking his fist in a rage , and slamming the door by which he retreated . 
And this time he really gave his order for march and mounted in the court yard . 
The horses , which had not been exercised for some days , were lively , and sprang about the street . 
Jos , a clumsy and timid horseman , did not look to advantage in the saddle . 
Look at him , Amelia dear , driving into the parlour window . 
Such a bull in a china shop I never saw . 
All that day from morning until past sunset , the cannon never ceased to roar . 
It was dark when the cannonading stopped all of a sudden . 
All of us have read of what occurred during that interval . 
Its remembrance rankles still in the bosoms of millions of the countrymen of those brave men who lost the day . 
Centuries hence , we Frenchmen and Englishmen might be boasting and killing each other still , carrying out bravely the Devil's code of honour . 
All our friends took their share and fought like men in the great field . 
All day long , whilst the women were praying ten miles away , the lines of the dauntless English infantry were receiving and repelling the furious charges of the French horsemen . 
Guns which were heard at Brussels were ploughing up their ranks , and comrades falling , and the resolute survivors closing in . 
Towards evening , the attack of the French , repeated and resisted so bravely , slackened in its fury . 
They had other foes besides the British to engage , or were preparing for a final onset . 
It seemed almost to crest the eminence , when it began to wave and falter . 
Then it stopped , still facing the shot . 
Then at last the English troops rushed from the post from which no enemy had been able to dislodge them , and the Guard turned and fled . 
No more firing was heard at Brussels the pursuit rolled miles away . 
Darkness came down on the field and city and Amelia was praying for George , who was lying on his face , dead , with a bullet through his heart . 
During the time of these battles and dangers , old Miss Crawley was living at Brighton , very moderately moved by the great events that were going on . 
In the first place , let us mention her nephew , Rawdon Crawley . 
The spinster caused Briggs to write back to the Colonel a gracious and complimentary letter , encouraging him to continue his correspondence . 
His first letter was so excessively lively and amusing that she should look with pleasure for its successors . 
The novelist , who knows everything , knows this also . 
To the rector's lady , who went off to tend her husband's broken collar bone at the Rectory at Queen's Crawley , the spinster's communications were by no means so gracious . 
Mrs. Bute , that brisk , managing , lively , imperious woman , had committed the most fatal of all errors with regard to her sister in law . 
She had ruled over Miss Crawley's household utterly and completely , to be utterly and completely routed when a favourable opportunity for rebellion came . 
Rawdon's promotion , and the honourable mention made of his name in the Gazette , filled this good Christian lady also with alarm . 
He had Pitt Crawley for one of his auditors Pitt , who had come with his two half sisters to church , which . 
the old Baronet could now by no means be brought to frequent . 
The ribbons in Miss Horrocks's cap became more splendid than ever . 
The polite families fled the hall and its owner in terror . 
Sir Pitt went about tippling at his tenants' houses and drank rum and water with the farmers at Mudbury and the neighbouring places on market days . 
It was indeed a rude burthen for Mr. Crawley to bear . 
, had not Mr. Crawley , by threatening the old gentleman , forced the latter to send them to school . 
Her Ladyship and her sisters lived at Brighton with their mamma , the Countess Southdown , that strong minded woman so favourably known in the serious world . 
A few words ought to be said regarding her Ladyship and her noble family , who are bound by ties of present and future relationship to the house of Crawley . 
under the auspices of Mr. Wilberforce , and for a time was a credit to his political sponsor , and decidedly a serious young man . 
His name was only mentioned with groans in the dowager's circle . 
A mature spinster , and having but faint ideas of marriage , her love for the blacks occupied almost all her feelings . 
She had correspondences with clerical gentlemen in most of our East and West India possessions and was secretly attached to the Reverend Silas Hornblower , who was tattooed in the South Sea Islands . 
As for the Lady Jane , on whom , as it has been said , Mr. Pitt Crawley's affection had been placed , she was gentle , blushing , silent , and timid . 
In spite of his falling away , she wept for her brother , and was quite ashamed of loving him still . 
Even yet she used to send him little hurried smuggled notes , and pop them into the post in private . 
Her mamma ordered her dresses , her books , her bonnets , and her ideas for her . 
The strong minded Lady Southdown quite agreed in both proposals of her son in law , and was for converting Miss Crawley off hand . 
My Lord Southdown , her late husband , an epileptic and simple minded nobleman , was in the habit of approving of everything which his Matilda did and thought . 
she had not the least scruple in ordering all her tenants and inferiors to follow and believe after her . 
During these exercises old Southdown , on account of his invalid condition , was allowed to sit in his own room , and have negus and the paper read to him . 
were so awful that they used to frighten the timid old gentleman her father , and the physicians declared his fits always occurred after one of her Ladyship's sermons . 
A most dangerous and ignorant practitioner , my dear Pitt . 
I have providentially been the means of removing him from several houses though in one or two instances I did not arrive in time . 
I could not save poor dear General Glanders , who was dying under the hands of that ignorant man dying . 
He rallied a little under the Podgers' pills which I administered to him but alas ! it was too late . 
His death was delightful , however and his change was only for the better Creamer , my dear Pitt , must leave your aunt . 
Pitt expressed his perfect acquiescence . 
He , too , had been carried along by the energy of his noble kinswoman , and future mother in law . 
He had been made to accept Saunders McNitre , Luke Waters , Giles Jowls , Podgers' Pills , Rodgers' Pills , Pokey's Elixir , every one of her Ladyship's remedies spiritual or temporal . 
He never left her house without carrying respectfully away with him piles of her quack theology and medicine . 
He is an awakening man he ought to see Miss Crawley before she rests this night . 
And Emily , my love , get ready a packet of books for Miss Crawley . 
Put up 'A Voice from the Flames , 'A Trumpet warning to Jericho , and the 'Fleshpots Broken or , the Converted Cannibal . 
And the 'Washerwoman of Finchley Common , Mamma , said Lady Emily . 
It is as well to begin soothingly at first . 
Stop , my dear ladies , said Pitt , the diplomatist . 
With every deference to the opinion of my beloved and respected Lady Southdown , I think it would be quite unadvisable to commence so early upon serious topics with Miss Crawley . 
Remember her delicate condition , and how little , how very little accustomed she has hitherto been to considerations connected with her immortal welfare . 
Can we then begin too early , Pitt ? said Lady Emily , rising with six little books already in her hand . 
If you begin abruptly , you will frighten her altogether . 
You will only frighten and annoy her . 
She will very likely fling the books away , and refuse all acquaintance with the givers . 
You are as worldly as Miss Crawley , Pitt , said Lady Emily , tossing out of the room , her books in her hand . 
Jane , my love , you need not send that note to Mr. Irons . 
If her health is such that discussions fatigue her , we will wait her amendment . 
I will call upon Miss Crawley tomorrow . 
, drove up in state to Miss Crawley's door , and the tall serious footman handed in to Mr. Bowls her Ladyship's cards for Miss Crawley , and one likewise for Miss Briggs . 
Crumbs from the Pantry , The Frying Pan and the Fire , and The Livery of Sin , of a much stronger kind . 
A Countess's card left personally too for her , Briggs , was not a little pleasing to the poor friendless companion . 
Miss Crawley allowed Briggs to prattle on without interrupting her too much . 
As she got well , she was pining for society . 
Mr. Creamer , her medical man , would not hear of her returning to her old haunts and dissipation in London . 
He came , bringing with him Lady Southdown and her daughter . 
Podgers , whom she then patronised . 
, Pitt Crawley suddenly took up the cudgels in favour of the man of Destiny . 
This orthodox horror of Romish superstition saved Pitt Crawley in Lady Southdown's opinion , whilst his admiration for Fox and Napoleon raised him immeasurably in Miss Crawley's eyes . 
Her friendship with that defunct British statesman was mentioned when we first introduced her in this history . 
This promise was graciously accorded , and they separated upon great terms of amity . 
Don't let Lady Southdown come again , Pitt , said the old lady . 
She is stupid and pompous , like all your mother's family , whom I never could endure . 
But bring that nice good natured little Jane as often as ever you please . 
Pitt promised that he would do so . 
Towards her Ladyship Miss Crawley's manners were charming . 
The young lady herself had never received kindness except from this old spinster , and her brother and father and she repaid Miss Crawley's engoument by artless sweetness and friendship . 
The old spinster used to wake up when these ditties ceased , and ask for more . 
I wish , my love , I could get somebody to play piquet with me , Miss Crawley said one night when this functionary made his appearance with the candles and the coffee . 
and I think I should sleep better if I had my game . 
I used to to play a little with poor dear papa . 
Pitt was there more and more . 
He did not come for months together to the Hall , where his abominable old father abandoned himself completely to rum and water , and the odious society of the Horrocks family . 
It was all Bute's collar bone , she persisted in saying if that had not broke , I never would have left her . 
I am a martyr to duty and to your odious unclerical habit of hunting , Bute . 
Hunting nonsense ! It was you that frightened her , Barbara , the divine interposed . 
You're a clever woman , but you've got a devil of a temper and you're a screw with your money , Barbara . 
You'd have been screwed in gaol , Bute , if I had not kept your money . 
I know I would , my dear , said the Rector , good naturedly . 
You ARE a clever woman , but you manage too well , you know and the pious man consoled himself with a big glass of port . 
What the deuce can she find in that spooney of a Pitt Crawley ? he continued . 
The fellow has not pluck enough to say Bo to a goose . 
Jim says he's remembered at Oxford as Miss Crawley still the spooney . 
I say , Barbara , his reverence continued , after a pause . 
What ? said Barbara , who was biting her nails , and drumming the table . 
I say , why not send Jim over to Brighton to see if he can do anything with the old lady . 
He's very near getting his degree , you know . 
He's only been plucked twice so was I but he's had the advantages of Oxford and a university education . 
He knows some of the best chaps there . 
He pulls stroke in the Boniface boat . 
D it , ma'am , let's put him on the old woman , hey , and tell him to thrash Pitt if he says anything . 
Leger , and the colloquy between the Rector and his wife ended . 
Mrs. Bute did not augur much good to the cause from the sending of her son James as an ambassador , and saw him depart in rather a despairing mood . 
He was a handsome lad , however , when he came to present himself to his aunt at Brighton , and good looks were always a title to the fickle old lady's favour . 
Nor did his blushes and awkwardness take away from it she was pleased with these healthy tokens of the young gentleman's ingenuousness . 
Pitt was in the room with Miss Crawley when the lad was announced , and looked very blank when his name was mentioned . 
The old lady had plenty of humour , and enjoyed her correct nephew's perplexity . 
She asked after all the people at the Rectory with great interest and said she was thinking of paying them a visit . 
She flung Pitt a look of arch triumph , which caused that diplomatist almost to choke with envy . 
What ! said Miss Crawley . 
The Tom Cribb's Arms , said James , blushing deeply . 
Miss Crawley burst out laughing at this title . 
Mr. Bowls gave one abrupt guffaw , as a confidential servant of the family , but choked the rest of the volley the diplomatist only smiled . 
I I didn't know any better , said James , looking down . 
I've never been here before it was the coachman told me . 
I I'd best go and settle the score , James continued . 
Couldn't think of asking you , Ma'am , he added , generously . 
This delicacy made his aunt laugh the more . 
Go and settle the bill , Bowls , she said , with a wave of her hand , and bring it to me . 
Poor lady , she did not know what she had done ! There there's a little dawg , said James , looking frightfully guilty . 
I'd best go for him . 
Still , by way of punishing her elder nephew , Miss Crawley persisted in being gracious to the young Oxonian . 
There were no limits to her kindness or her compliments when they once began . 
Haw , haw , laughed James , encouraged by these compliments Senior Wrangler , indeed that's at the other shop . 
What is the other shop , my dear child ? said the lady . 
This incident damped the ingenuous youth's spirits , and no word of yea or nay could he be induced to utter during the rest of the drive . 
But the thought of Mr. Bowls did not enter his head . 
He was deploring the dreadful predicament in which he found himself , in a house full of old women , jabbering French and Italian , and talking poetry to him . 
Half of Briggs's time at dinner was spent in superintending the invalid's comfort , and in cutting up chicken for her fat spaniel . 
The ladies having withdrawn , and the two cousins being left together , Pitt , the ex diplomatist , be came very communicative and friendly . 
He asked after James's career at college what his prospects in life were hoped heartily he would get on and , in a word , was frank and amiable . 
The chief pleasure which my aunt has , said Mr. Crawley , filling his glass , is that people should do as they like in her house . 
This is Liberty Hall , James , and you can't do Miss Crawley a greater kindness than to do as you please , and ask for what you will . 
I know you have all sneered at me in the country for being a Tory . 
Miss Crawley is liberal enough to suit any fancy . 
She is a Republican in principle , and despises everything like rank or title . 
Why are you going to marry an Earl's daughter ? said James . 
My dear friend , remember it is not poor Lady Jane's fault that she is well born , Pitt replied , with a courtly air . 
She cannot help being a lady . 
Besides , I am a Tory , you know . 
Oh , as for that , said Jim , there's nothing like old blood no , dammy , nothing like it . 
I'm none of your radicals . 
I know what it is to be a gentleman , dammy . 
See the chaps in a boat race look at the fellers in a fight aye , look at a dawg killing rats which is it wins ? the good blooded ones . 
Get some more port , Bowls , old boy , whilst I buzz this bottle here . 
What was I asaying ? I think you were speaking of dogs killing rats , Pitt remarked mildly , handing his cousin the decanter to buzz . 
I'm blest if I think you know the difference between a dog and a duck . 
No by the way , Pitt continued with increased blandness , it was about blood you were talking , and the personal advantages which people derive from patrician birth . 
Blood's the word , said James , gulping the ruby fluid down . 
Nothing like blood , sir , in hosses , dawgs , AND men . 
Gad , how he did drop , sir , and what was it ? Blood , sir , all blood . 
You don't drink , James , the ex attache continued . 
In my time at Oxford , the men passed round the bottle a little quicker than you young fellows seem to do . 
You want to trot me out , but it's no go . 
In vino veritas , old boy . 
Mars , Bacchus , Apollo virorum , hey ? I wish my aunt would send down some of this to the governor it's a precious good tap . 
You had better ask her , Machiavel continued , or make the best of your time now . 
At the Rectory , when the bottle of port wine was opened after dinner , the young ladies had each a glass from a bottle of currant wine . 
He seems a very silent , awkward , bashful lad , said Miss Crawley to Mr. Pitt . 
He is more communicative in men's society than with ladies , Machiavel dryly replied perhaps rather disappointed that the port wine had not made Jim speak more . 
He had spent the early part of the next morning in writing home to his mother a most flourishing account of his reception by Miss Crawley . 
But ah ! he little knew what evils the day was bringing for him , and how short his reign of favour was destined to be . 
A circumstance which Jim had forgotten a trivial but fatal circumstance had taken place at the Cribb's Arms on the night before he had come to his aunt's house . 
Had he drunk a dozen bottles of claret , the old spinster could have pardoned him . 
Mr. Fox and Mr. Sheridan drank claret . 
But eighteen glasses of gin consumed among boxers in an ignoble pot house it was an odious crime and not to be pardoned readily . 
This day too the unlucky boy's modesty had likewise forsaken him . 
He was lively and facetious at dinner . 
Pitt was not pleased altogether perhaps , but still not unhappy in the main . 
Once up in the bedroom , one would have thought he could not make matters worse and yet this unlucky boy did . 
Nobody would smell the tobacco , he thought , if he cunningly opened the window and kept his head and pipe in the fresh air . 
The pipe of tobacco finished the business and the Bute Crawleys never knew how many thousand pounds it cost them . 
Firkin rushed downstairs to Bowls who was reading out the Fire and the Frying Pan to his aide de camp in a loud and ghostly voice . 
O , Mr. James , what 'AVE you done ! he said in a voice of the deepest pathos , as he threw the implement out of the window . 
What 'ave you done , sir ! Missis can't abide 'em . 
Missis needn't smoke , said James with a frantic misplaced laugh , and thought the whole matter an excellent joke . 
And herewith honest James's career as a candidate for his aunt's favour ended . 
He had in fact , and without knowing it , done what he menaced to do . 
He had fought his cousin Pitt with the gloves . 
And the way in which she jockeyed Jos , and which she described with infinite fun , carried up his delight to a pitch of quite insane enthusiasm . 
He believed in his wife as much as the French soldiers in Napoleon . 
Her success in Paris was remarkable . 
All the French ladies voted her charming . 
She spoke their language admirably . 
She adopted at once their grace , their liveliness , their manner . 
Her husband was stupid certainly all English are stupid and , besides , a dull husband at Paris is always a point in a lady's favour . 
He was the heir of the rich and spirituelle Miss Crawley , whose house had been open to so many of the French noblesse during the emigration . 
Meanwhile , she was the gayest and most admired of Englishwomen and had a little European congress on her reception night . 
Famous warriors rode by her carriage in the Bois , or crowded her modest little box at the Opera . 
Rawdon was in the highest spirits . 
There were no duns in Paris as yet there were parties every day at Very's or Beauvilliers' play was plentiful and his luck good . 
But she had all the men on her side . 
She fought the women with indomitable courage , and they could not talk scandal in any tongue but their own . 
This event was copied into the London papers , out of which Miss Briggs read the statement to Miss Crawley , at breakfast , at Brighton . 
The intelligence , expected as it might have been , caused a crisis in the affairs of the Crawley family . 
Waxy came down to ratify the deeds Lord Southdown gave away his sister she was married by a Bishop , and not by the Rev . 
Bartholomew Irons to the disappointment of the irregular prelate . 
When they were married , Pitt would have liked to take a hymeneal tour with his bride , as became people of their condition . 
But the affection of the old lady towards Lady Jane had grown so strong , that she fairly owned she could not part with her favourite . 
Lady Southdown , from her neighbouring house , reigned over the whole family Pitt , Lady Jane , Miss Crawley , Briggs , Bowls , Firkin , and all . 
She pitilessly dosed them with her tracts and her medicine , she dismissed Creamer , she installed Rodgers , and soon stripped Miss Crawley of even the semblance of authority . 
The poor soul grew so timid that she actually left off bullying Briggs any more , and clung to her niece , more fond and terrified every day . 
Peace to thee , kind and selfish , vain and generous old heathen ! We shall see thee no more . 
Let us hope that Lady Jane supported her kindly , and led her with gentle hand out of the busy struggle of Vanity Fair . 
CHAPTER XXXV Widow and Mother The news of the great fights of Quatre Bras and Waterloo reached England at the same time . 
The Gazette first published the result of the two battles at which glorious intelligence all England thrilled with triumph and fear . 
Particulars then followed and after the announcement of the victories came the list of the wounded and the slain . 
Anybody who will take the trouble of looking back to a file of the newspapers of the time , must , even now , feel at second hand this breathless pause of expectation . 
The lists of casualties are carried on from day to day you stop in the midst as in a story which is to be continued in our next . 
The news which that famous Gazette brought to the Osbornes gave a dreadful shock to the family and its chief . 
The girls indulged unrestrained in their grief . 
The gloom stricken old father was still more borne down by his fate and sorrow . 
He strove to think that a judgment was on the boy for his disobedience . 
He dared not own that the severity of the sentence frightened him , and that its fulfilment had come too soon upon his curses . 
Sometimes a shuddering terror struck him , as if he had been the author of the doom which he had called down on his son . 
There was a chance before of reconciliation . 
The boy's wife might have died or he might have come back and said , Father I have sinned . 
But there was no hope now . 
He stood on the other side of the gulf impassable , haunting his parent with sad eyes . 
He remembered them once before so in a fever , when every one thought the lad was dying , and he lay on his bed speechless , and gazing with a dreadful gloom . 
Whatever his sensations might have been , however , the stem old man would have no confidant . 
All parties and entertainments , of course , were to be put off . 
He and the ladies whispered about it under their voices in the drawing room sometimes , whither the father never came . 
He remained constantly in his own study the whole front part of the house being closed until some time after the completion of the general mourning . 
My son , Major Dobbin , the Alderman said , with some hesitation , despatched me a letter by an officer of the th , who arrived in town to day . 
My son's letter contains one for you , Osborne . 
The Alderman placed the letter on the table , and Osborne stared at him for a moment or two in silence . 
His looks frightened the ambassador , who after looking guiltily for a little time at the grief stricken man , hurried away without another word . 
The letter was in George's well known bold handwriting . 
It was that one which he had written before daybreak on the th of June , and just before he took leave of Amelia . 
The hand that signed it would never hold pen or sword more . 
The very seal that sealed it had been robbed from George's dead body as it lay on the field of battle . 
The father knew nothing of this , but sat and looked at the letter in terrified vacancy . 
He almost fell when he went to open it . 
They are closet skeletons which we keep and shun . 
Osborne trembled long before the letter from his dead son . 
The poor boy's letter did not say much . 
He had been too proud to acknowledge the tenderness which his heart felt . 
He owned with contrition that his irregularities and his extravagance had already wasted a large part of his mother's little fortune . 
His English habit , pride , awkwardness perhaps , had prevented him from saying more . 
His father could not see the kiss George had placed on the superscription of his letter . 
Mr. Osborne dropped it with the bitterest , deadliest pang of balked affection and revenge . 
His son was still beloved and unforgiven . 
The sculptors of those days had stocks of such funereal emblems in hand as you may see still on the walls of St . 
Paul's , which are covered with hundreds of these braggart heathen allegories . 
There was a constant demand for them during the first fifteen years of the present century . 
Dulce et decorum est pro patria mori . 
The sight of that stone agitated the nerves of the sisters so much , that Miss Maria was compelled to leave the church . 
The congregation made way respectfully for those sobbing girls clothed in deep black , and pitied the stern old father seated opposite the memorial of the dead soldier . 
Will he forgive Mrs. George ? the girls said to themselves as soon as their ebullition of grief was over . 
There were bets among the gentlemen both about Russell Square and in the City . 
He did not say whither , but they knew at once that his steps would be turned towards Belgium , and were aware that George's widow was still in Brussels . 
They had pretty accurate news indeed of poor Amelia from Lady Dobbin and her daughters . 
Very many of the brave th , who had suffered severely upon both days of action , were still at Brussels in the autumn , recovering of their wounds . 
Mr. Osborne found out some of the th easily . 
Were you in Captain Osborne's company ? he said , and added , after a pause , he was my son , sir . 
The man was not of the Captain's company , but he lifted up his unwounded arm and touched his cap sadly and respectfully to the haggard broken spirited gentleman who questioned him . 
The whole army didn't contain a finer or a better officer , the soldier said . 
, was in town , though , and was just well of a shot in the shoulder . 
His honour might see him if he liked , who could tell him anything he wanted to know about about the th's actions . 
They say she was out of her mind like for six weeks or more . 
But your honour knows all about that and asking your pardon the man added . 
In the Sergeant's company , who was also just convalescent , Osborne made the journey of Waterloo and Quatre Bras , a journey which thousands of his countrymen were then taking . 
He took the Sergeant with him in his carriage , and went through both fields under his guidance . 
There was the spot where the noble Captain cut down the French officer who was grappling with the young Ensign for the colours , the Colour Sergeants having been shot down . 
Along this road they retreated on the next day , and here was the bank at which the regiment bivouacked under the rain of the night of the seventeenth . 
It was Major Dobbin who took back the Captain's body to Brussels , the Sergeant said , in a low voice , and had him buried , as your honour knows . 
Osborne gave a sumptuous reward to the Sergeant when he parted with him , after having visited the scenes of his son's last exploits . 
His burial place he had already seen . 
Indeed , he had driven thither immediately after his arrival at Brussels . 
He was proud of his hatred as of everything else . 
It was Amelia , with the lame young Ensign by her side , and opposite to her her faithful friend Mrs. O'Dowd . 
It was Amelia , but how changed from the fresh and comely girl Osborne knew . 
Her face was white and thin . 
Her pretty brown hair was parted under a widow's cap the poor child . 
Her eyes were fixed , and looking nowhere . 
He did not know how much until he saw her there . 
It is she who has tumbled my hopes and all my pride down . 
Tell the scoundrel to drive on quick , he shouted with an oath , to the lackey on the box . 
A minute afterwards , a horse came clattering over the pavement behind Osborne's carriage , and Dobbin rode up . 
Then he turned to examine if the sight of her father in law had made any impression on Amelia , but the poor girl did not know who had passed . 
Then William , who daily used to accompany her in his drives , taking out his watch , made some excuse about an engagement which he suddenly recollected , and so rode off . 
She did not remark that either but sate looking before her , over the homely landscape towards the woods in the distance , by which George marched away . 
Mr. Osborne , Mr. Osborne ! cried Dobbin , as he rode up and held out his hand . 
Osborne made no motion to take it , but shouted out once more and with another curse to his servant to drive on . 
Dobbin laid his hand on the carriage side . 
I will see you , sir , he said . 
I have a message for you . 
From that woman ? said Osborne , fiercely . 
There he followed Osborne up to his apartments . 
George had often been in the rooms they were the lodgings which the Crawleys had occupied during their stay in Brussels . 
Better men ARE dead , Dobbin replied . 
I want to speak to you about one . 
Make it short , sir , said the other with an oath , scowling at his visitor . 
I am here as his closest friend , the Major resumed , and the executor of his will . 
He made it before he went into action . 
Are you aware how small his means are , and of the straitened circumstances of his widow ? I don't know his widow , sir , Osborne said . 
Let her go back to her father . 
But the gentleman whom he addressed was determined to remain in good temper , and went on without heeding the interruption . 
Do you know , sir , Mrs. Osborne's condition ? Her life and her reason almost have been shaken by the blow which has fallen on her . 
It is very doubtful whether she will rally . 
There is a chance left for her , however , and it is about this I came to speak to you . 
She will be a mother soon . 
No father in all England could have behaved more generously to a son , who had rebelled against him wickedly . 
He had died without even so much as confessing he was wrong . 
Let him take the consequences of his undutifulness and folly . 
As for himself , Mr. Osborne , he was a man of his word . 
He had sworn never to speak to that woman , or to recognize her as his son's wife . 
And that's what you may tell her , he concluded with an oath and that's what I will stick to to the last day of my life . 
There was no hope from that quarter then . 
The widow must live on her slender pittance , or on such aid as Jos could give her . 
So , indeed , were even friendship and kindness . 
She received them both uncomplainingly , and having accepted them , relapsed into her grief . 
Suppose some twelve months after the above conversation took place to have passed in the life of our poor Amelia . 
Tread silently round the hapless couch of the poor prostrate soul . 
The doctors who attended her , and had feared for her life or for her brain , had waited anxiously for this crisis before they could pronounce that either was secure . 
It was worth the long months of doubt and dread which the persons who had constantly been with her had passed , to see her eyes once more beaming tenderly upon them . 
Our friend Dobbin was one of them . 
It was he who brought her back to England and to her mother's house when Mrs. O'Dowd , receiving a peremptory summons from her Colonel , had been forced to quit her patient . 
To see Dobbin holding the infant , and to hear Amelia's laugh of triumph as she watched him , would have done any man good who had a sense of humour . 
William was the godfather of the child , and exerted his ingenuity in the purchase of cups , spoons , pap boats , and corals for this little Christian . 
This child was her being . 
Her existence was a maternal caress . 
She enveloped the feeble and unconscious creature with love and worship . 
It was her life which the baby drank in from her bosom . 
And so , gently , he bore his fate , knowing it , and content to bear it . 
It was this little child who commonly acted as mistress of the ceremonies to introduce him to Mrs. Osborne . 
Go downstairs , little Mary , said he presently to the child , I want to speak to Mrs. Osborne . 
She looked up rather astonished , and laid down the infant on its bed . 
I am come to say good bye , Amelia , said he , taking her slender little white hand gently . 
Good bye ? and where are you going ? she said , with a smile . 
Send the letters to the agents , he said they will forward them for you will write to me , won't you ? I shall be away a long time . 
I'll write to you about Georgy , she said . 
Dear' William , how good you have been to him and to me . 
Isn't he like an angel ? The little pink hands of the child closed mechanically round the honest soldier's finger , and Amelia looked up in his face with bright maternal pleasure . 
The cruellest looks could not have wounded him more than that glance of hopeless kindness . 
He bent over the child and mother . 
He could not speak for a moment . 
And it was only with all his strength that he could force himself to say a God bless you . 
God bless you , said Amelia , and held up her face and kissed him . 
Hush ! Don't wake Georgy ! she added , as William Dobbin went to the door with heavy steps . 
She did not hear the noise of his cab wheels as he drove away she was looking at the child , who was laughing in his sleep . 
Had his wife a private fortune ? Pooh ! Miss Flint one of eleven children of a small squire in Buckinghamshire . 
It was in this period that he quitted the Guards and sold out of the army . 
When we find him again , his mustachios and the title of Colonel on his card are the only relics of his military profession . 
The English men of fashion in Paris courted her , too , to the disgust of the ladies their wives , who could not bear the parvenue . 
For some months the salons of the Faubourg St . 
But the Colonel yawned sadly among the Duchesses and great ladies of the Court . 
The old women who played ecarte made such a noise about a five franc piece that it was not worth Colonel Crawley's while to sit down at a card table . 
The wit of their conversation he could not appreciate , being ignorant of their language . 
Now Crawley , from being only a brilliant amateur , had grown to be a consummate master of billiards . 
Those who were accustomed to see it were cautious how they staked their money against a man of such sudden resources and brilliant and overpowering skill . 
Indeed , very few men could say that they ever had the better of him . 
His successes were so repeated that no wonder the envious and the vanquished spoke sometimes with bitterness regarding them . 
At Crawley's charming little reunions of an evening this fatal amusement commonly was practised much to good natured little Mrs. Crawley's annoyance . 
She spoke about her husband's passion for dice with the deepest grief she bewailed it to everybody who came to her house . 
How could he ? He had lost just as much himself to Blackstone of the Hussars , and Count Punter of the Hanoverian Cavalry . 
Green might have any decent time but pay ? of course he must pay to talk of burning IOU's was child's play . 
Other officers , chiefly young for the young fellows gathered round Mrs. Crawley came from her parties with long faces , having dropped more or less money at her fatal card tables . 
Her house began to have an unfortunate reputation . 
The old hands warned the less experienced of their danger . 
Colonel O'Dowd , of the th regiment , one of those occupying in Paris , warned Lieutenant Spooney of that corps . 
The ladies engaged on both sides . 
Mrs. O'Dowd snapped her fingers in Mrs. Crawley's face and called her husband no betther than a black leg . 
Gambling , she would say , dear , is good to help your income , but not as an income itself . 
, gentlemen were tired of play with him , and , in spite of Rebecca's charms , did not present themselves very eagerly . 
As a first step she had made Crawley sell out of the Guards and go on half pay . 
His function as aide de camp to General Tufto had ceased previously . 
Becky had a dozen admirers in his place , to be sure , and could cut her rival to pieces with her wit . 
But , as we have said , she . 
She felt the frivolity of pleasure and longed for more substantial benefits . 
At this juncture news arrived which was spread among the many creditors of the Colonel at Paris , and which caused them great satisfaction . 
Miss Crawley , the rich aunt from whom he expected his immense inheritance , was dying the Colonel must haste to her bedside . 
Mrs. Crawley and her child would remain behind until he came to reclaim them . 
The fact is , he owed more money at London than at Paris and he preferred the quiet little Belgian city to either of the more noisy capitals . 
Mrs. Crawley ordered the most intense mourning for herself and little Rawdon . 
The Colonel was busy arranging the affairs of the inheritance . 
They could take the premier now , instead of the little entresol of the hotel which they occupied . 
Mrs. Crawley and the landlord had a consultation about the new hangings , an amicable wrangle about the carpets , and a final adjustment of everything except the bill . 
She went off in one of his carriages her French bonne with her the child by her side the admirable landlord and landlady smiling farewell to her from the gate . 
He serred the trunks which she left in his charge with the greatest care . 
They had been especially recommended to him by Madame Crawley . 
They were not , however , found to be particularly valuable when opened some time after . 
The parting between Rebecca and the little Rawdon did not cause either party much pain . 
She had not , to say truth , seen much of the young gentleman since his birth . 
Rebecca did not care much to go and see the son and heir . 
Once he spoiled a new dove coloured pelisse of hers . 
He preferred his nurse's caresses to his mamma's , and when finally he quitted that jolly nurse and almost parent , he cried loudly for hours . 
The respect in those happy days of was very great for the wealth and honour of Britons . 
They had not then learned , as I am told , to haggle for bargains with the pertinacity which now distinguishes them . 
The great cities of Europe had not been as yet open to the enterprise of our rascals . 
No , not even the nurse was paid the Crawleys were in too great a hurry to remember their trifling debt to her . 
As for the landlord of the hotel , his curses against the English nation were violent for the rest of his natural life . 
He asked all travellers whether they knew a certain Colonel Lor Crawley avec sa femme une petite dame , tres spirituelle . 
Ah , Monsieur ! he would add ils m'ont affreusement vole . 
It was melancholy to hear his accents as he spoke of that catastrophe . 
Mrs. Crawley employed no lawyer in the transaction . 
The matter was so simple , to have or to leave , as she justly observed , that she made the lawyers of the creditors themselves do the business . 
, complimented his lady upon the brilliant way in which she did business , and declared that there was no professional man who could beat her . 
These mansions are to be had either unfurnished , where , if you have credit with Messrs . 
It was so that Crawley and his wife preferred to hire their house . 
Mr. Raggles then retired and personally undertook the superintendence of the small shop and the greens . 
Of course , they did not intend to occupy permanently an apartment so splendid . 
It was in order to let the house again that Raggles purchased it . 
He was a good man good and happy . 
Swishtail's , Sugar cane Lodge , and little Matilda to Miss Peckover's , Laurentinum House , Clapham . 
Raggles loved and adored the Crawley family as the author of all his prosperity in life . 
Indeed Raggles thought there was no such palace in all the world , and no such august family . 
As luck would have it , Raggles' house in Curzon Street was to let when Rawdon and his wife returned to London . 
The Colonel knew it and its owner quite well the latter's connection with the Crawley family had been kept up constantly , for Raggles helped Mr. Bowls whenever Miss Crawley received friends . 
Rawdon and his wife generously gave their patronage to all such of Miss Crawley's tradesmen and purveyors as chose to serve them . 
Some were willing , enough , especially the poor ones . 
It was wonderful to see the pertinacity with which the washerwoman from Tooting brought the cart every Saturday , and her bills week after week . 
Mr. Raggles himself had to supply the greengroceries . 
The bill for servants' porter at the Fortune of War public house is a curiosity in the chronicles of beer . 
Every servant also was owed the greater part of his wages , and thus kept up perforce an interest in the house . 
Nobody in fact was paid . 
In a little town such things cannot be done without remark . 
We know there the quantity of milk our neighbour takes and espy the joint or the fowls which are going in for his dinner . 
Rebecca's wit , cleverness , and flippancy made her speedily the vogue in London among a certain class . 
You saw demure chariots at her door , out of which stepped very great people . 
You beheld her carriage in the park , surrounded by dandies of note . 
With regard to the world of female fashion and its customs , the present writer of course can only speak at second hand . 
A man can no more penetrate or under stand those mysteries than he can know what the ladies talk about when they go upstairs after dinner . 
Mrs. Firebrace is of this sort the lady with the beautiful fair ringlets whom you see every day in Hyde Park , surrounded by the greatest and most famous dandies of this empire . 
Men living about London are aware of these awful truths . 
You hear how pitilessly many ladies of seeming rank and wealth are excluded from this society . 
It was curious to see how the great ladies forgot her , and no doubt not altogether a pleasant study to Rebecca . 
To stare Becky out of countenance required a severer glance than even the frigid old Bareacres could shoot out of her dismal eyes . 
Even Mrs. Blenkinsop , the banker's wife , cut her at church . 
Rawdon at first felt very acutely the slights which were passed upon his wife , and was inclined to be gloomy and savage . 
You can't shoot me into society , she said good naturedly . 
When your father dies , Queen's Crawley will be a pleasant house for you and me to pass the winter in . 
If we are ruined , you can carve and take charge of the stable , and I can be a governess to Lady Jane's children . 
Ruined ! fiddlede dee ! I will get you a good place before that or Pitt and his little boy will die , and we will be Sir Rawdon and my lady . 
While there is life , there is hope , my dear , and I intend to make a man of you yet . 
He wrote to his brother a very frank , manly , good humoured letter from Paris . 
She , too , begged to join in her husband's congratulations . 
, she hoped that one day she might be allowed to present her little boy to his uncle and aunt , and begged to bespeak for him their good will and protection . 
To her Ladyship's surprise , however , Pitt declined to accommodate his brother with a cheque for thirty thousand pounds . 
Thus an almost reconciliation was brought about between the brothers . 
When Rebecca came to town Pitt and his wife were not in London . 
Many a time she drove by the old door in Park Lane to see whether they had taken possession of Miss Crawley's house there . 
Becky had reasons of her own which caused her to long for the arrival of her new relation . 
An article as necessary to a lady in this position as her brougham or her bouquet is her companion . 
I have always admired the way in which the tender creatures , who cannot exist without sympathy , hire an exceedingly plain friend of their own sex from whom they are almost inseparable . 
I must have a sheep dog . 
A what ? said Rawdon , looking up from an ecarte table . 
A sheep dog ! said young Lord Southdown . 
My dear Mrs. Crawley , what a fancy ! Why not have a Danish dog ? I know of one as big as a camel leopard , by Jove . 
It would almost pull your brougham . 
I mark the trick , Rawdon gravely said . 
He attended to his game commonly and didn't much meddle with the conversation , except when it was about horses and betting . 
What CAN you want with a shepherd's dog ? the lively little Southdown continued . 
I mean a MORAL shepherd's dog , said Becky , laughing and looking up at Lord Steyne . 
What the devil's that ? said his Lordship . 
A dog to keep the wolves off me , Rebecca continued . 
Dear little innocent lamb , you want one , said the marquis and his jaw thrust out , and he began to grin hideously , his little eyes leering towards Rebecca . 
The great Lord of Steyne was standing by the fire sipping coffee . 
The fire crackled and blazed pleasantly There was a score of candles sparkling round the mantel piece , in all sorts of quaint sconces , of gilt and bronze and porcelain . 
They lighted up Rebecca's figure to admiration , as she sat on a sofa covered with a pattern of gaudy flowers . 
The candles lighted up Lord Steyne's shining bald head , which was fringed with red hair . 
He had thick bushy eyebrows , with little twinkling bloodshot eyes , surrounded by a thousand wrinkles . 
His jaw was underhung , and when he laughed , two white buck teeth protruded themselves and glistened savagely in the midst of the grin . 
He had been dining with royal personages , and wore his garter and ribbon . 
A short man was his Lordship , broad chested and bow legged , but proud of the fineness of his foot and ankle , and always caressing his garter knee . 
'Gad , what a debauched Corydon ! said my lord what a mouth for a pipe ! I take your three to two , here said Rawdon , at the card table . 
Hark at Meliboeus , snarled the noble marquis he's pastorally occupied too he's shearing a Southdown . 
What an innocent mutton , hey ? Damme , what a snowy fleece ! Rebecca's eyes shot out gleams of scornful humour . 
My lord , she said , you are a knight of the Order . 
He had the collar round his neck , indeed a gift of the restored princes of Spain . 
Lord Steyne in early life had been notorious for his daring and his success at play . 
He had sat up two days and two nights with Mr. Fox at hazard . 
Rebecca saw the scowl gathering over his heavy brow . 
She rose up from her sofa and went and took his coffee cup out of his hand with a little curtsey . 
Yes , she said , I must get a watchdog . 
But he won't bark at YOU . 
Rawdon and his friend meanwhile played ecarte until they had enough . 
How is Mrs. Crawley's husband ? Lord Steyne used to say to him by way of a good day when they met and indeed that was now his avocation in life . 
He was Colonel Crawley no more . 
He was Mrs. Crawley's husband . 
His mother scarcely ever took notice of him . 
Rebecca , my Lord Steyne , and one or two more were in the drawing room taking tea after the opera , when this shouting was heard overhead . 
It's my cherub crying for his nurse , she said . 
She did not offer to move to go and see the child . 
Don't agitate your feelings by going to look for him , said Lord Steyne sardonically . 
Bah ! replied the other , with a sort of blush , he'll cry himself to sleep and they fell to talking about the opera . 
Rawdon had stolen off though , to look after his son and heir and came back to the company when he found that honest Dolly was consoling the child . 
The Colonel's dressing room was in those upper regions . 
He used to see the boy there in private . 
They had interviews together every morning when he shaved Rawdon minor sitting on a box by his father's side and watching the operation with never ceasing pleasure . 
He and the sire were great friends . 
She did not go to rest till very late and seldom rose till after noon . 
Rawdon bought the boy plenty of picture books and crammed his nursery with toys . 
Its walls were covered with pictures pasted up by the father's own hand and purchased by him for ready money . 
Rawdon minor had made up his face for a tremendous howl the severity of the blow indeed authorized that indulgence but just as he was going to begin , the father interposed . 
For God's sake , Rawdy , don't wake Mamma , he cried . 
And the child , looking in a very hard and piteous way at his father , bit his lips , clenched his hands , and didn't cry a bit . 
Rawdon told that story at the clubs , at the mess , to everybody in town . 
Sometimes once or twice in a week that lady visited the upper regions in which the child lived . 
She came like a vivified figure out of the Magasin des Modes blandly smiling in the most beautiful new clothes and little gloves and boots . 
Wonderful scarfs , laces , and jewels glittered about her . 
She had always a new bonnet on , and flowers bloomed perpetually in it , or else magnificent curling ostrich feathers , soft and snowy as camellias . 
She nodded twice or thrice patronizingly to the little boy , who looked up from his dinner or from the pictures of soldiers he was painting . 
When she left the room , an odour of rose , or some other magical fragrance , lingered about the nursery . 
She was an unearthly being in his eyes , superior to his father to all the world to be worshipped and admired at a distance . 
Gentlemen on splendid prancing horses came up and smiled and talked with her . 
How her eyes beamed upon all of them ! Her hand used to quiver and wave gracefully as they passed . 
When he went out with her he had his new red dress on . 
His old brown holland was good enough when he stayed at home . 
Sometimes , when she was away , and Dolly his maid was making his bed , he came into his mother's room . 
It was as the abode of a fairy to him a mystic chamber of splendour and delights . 
There in the wardrobe hung those wonderful robes pink and blue and many tinted . 
There was the jewel case , silver clasped , and the wondrous bronze hand on the dressing table , glistening all over with a hundred rings . 
, plumping and patting the pillows of the bed . 
For Rawdon minor he had a great secret tenderness then , which did not escape Rebecca , though she did not talk about it to her husband . 
It did not annoy her she was too good natured . 
It only increased her scorn for him . 
He felt somehow ashamed of this paternal softness and hid it from his wife only indulging in it when alone with the boy . 
He used to take him out of mornings when they would go to the stables together and to the park . 
It pleased him to see his old quarters , and his old fellow guardsmen at Knightsbridge he had begun to think of his bachelorhood with something like regret . 
The old troopers were glad to recognize their ancient officer and dandle the little colonel . 
Colonel Crawley found dining at mess and with his brother officers very pleasant . 
Hang it , I ain't clever enough for her I know it . 
She won't miss me , he used to say and he was right , his wife did not miss him . 
Rebecca was fond of her husband . 
She was always perfectly good humoured and kind to him . 
She did not even show her scorn much for him perhaps she liked him the better for being a fool . 
He was her upper servant and maitre d'hotel . 
He would have liked her to be a little fonder of the boy , but even to that he reconciled himself . 
Hang it , you know she's so clever , he said , and I'm not literary and that , you know . 
When the companion came , his domestic duties became very light . 
His wife encouraged him to dine abroad she would let him off duty at the opera . 
Don't stay and stupefy yourself at home to night , my dear , she would say . 
Some men are coming who will only bore you . 
I would not ask them , but you know it's for your good , and now I have a sheep dog , I need not be afraid to be alone . 
A sheep dog a companion ! Becky Sharp with a companion ! Isn't it good fun ? thought Mrs. Crawley to herself . 
The notion tickled hugely her sense of humour . 
This other youngster had seized hold of the Waterloo medal which the Corporal wore , and was examining it with delight . 
Good morning , your Honour , said Clink , in reply to the How do , Clink ? of the Colonel . 
This ere young gentleman is about the little Colonel's age , sir , continued the corporal . 
His father was a Waterloo man , too , said the old gentleman , who carried the boy . 
Wasn't he , Georgy ? Yes , said Georgy . 
He and the little chap on the pony were looking at each other with all their might solemnly scanning each other as children do . 
In a line regiment , Clink said with a patronizing air . 
He was a Captain in the th regiment , said the old gentleman rather pompously . 
Captain George Osborne , sir perhaps you knew him . 
He died the death of a hero , sir , fighting against the Corsican tyrant . 
Colonel Crawley blushed quite red . 
On it written Mr. Sedley , Sole Agent for the Black Diamond and Anti Cinder Coal Association , Bunker's Wharf , Thames Street , and Anna Maria Cottages , Fulham Road West . 
Little Georgy went up and looked at the Shetland pony . 
Should you like to have a ride ? said Rawdon minor from the saddle . 
The Colonel , who had been looking at him with some interest , took up the child and put him on the pony behind Rawdon minor . 
Take hold of him , Georgy , he said take my little boy round the waist his name is Rawdon . 
And both the children began to laugh . 
Either his furlough was up , or he dreaded to meet any witnesses of his Waterloo flight . 
However it might be , he went back to his duties in Bengal very soon after Napoleon had taken up his residence at St . 
Helena , where Jos saw the ex Emperor . 
He had a thousand anecdotes about the famous battles he knew the position of every regiment and the loss which each had incurred . 
He did not deny that he had been concerned in those victories that he had been with the army and carried despatches for the Duke of Wellington . 
The bills which Jos had given for the purchase of those unlucky horses were paid without question by him and his agents . 
Jos's London agents had orders to pay one hundred and twenty pounds yearly to his parents at Fulham . 
It was the chief support of the old couple for Mr. Sedley's speculations in life subsequent to his bankruptcy did not by any means retrieve the broken old gentleman's fortune . 
He tried to be a wine merchant , a coal merchant , a commission lottery agent , c . 
He sent round prospectuses to his friends whenever he took a new trade , and ordered a new brass plate for the door , and talked pompously about making his fortune still . 
But Fortune never came back to the feeble and stricken old man . 
At evening he crawled slowly back and he used to go of nights to a little club at a tavern , where he disposed of the finances of the nation . 
It was wonderful to hear him talk about millions , and agios , and discounts , and what Rothschild was doing , and Baring Brothers . 
I was better off once , sir , he did not fail to tell everybody who used the room . 
My son , sir , is at this minute chief magistrate of Ramgunge in the Presidency of Bengal , and touching his four thousand rupees per mensem . 
My daughter might be a Colonel's lady if she liked . 
But the Sedleys were always a proud family . 
but we are wandering out of the domain of the story . 
Had Mrs. Sedley been a woman of energy , she would have exerted it after her husband's ruin and , occupying a large house , would have taken in boarders . 
She was content to lie on the shore where fortune had stranded her and you could see that the career of this old couple was over . 
I don't think they were unhappy . 
Perhaps they were a little prouder in their downfall than in their prosperity . 
Mrs. Sedley was always a great person for her landlady , Mrs. Clapp , when she descended and passed many hours with her in the basement or ornamented kitchen . 
And besides Betty Flanagan , Mrs. Sedley had all the maids of all work in the street to superintend . 
She knew how each tenant of the cottages paid or owed his little rent . 
She stepped aside when Mrs. Rougemont the actress passed with her dubious family . 
She flung up her head when Mrs. Pestler , the apothecary's lady , drove by in her husband's professional one horse chaise . 
Amelia , the gentlest and sweetest of everyday mortals , when she found this meddling with her maternal authority , thrilled and trembled all over with anger . 
Her cheeks , ordinarily pale , now flushed up , until they were as red as they used to be when she was a child of twelve years old . 
She seized the baby out of her mother's arms and then grasped at the bottle , leaving the old lady gaping at her , furious , and holding the guilty tea spoon . 
Amelia flung the bottle crashing into the fire place . 
I will NOT have baby poisoned , Mamma , cried Emmy , rocking the infant about violently with both her arms round him and turning with flashing eyes at her mother . 
Poisoned , Amelia ! said the old lady this language to me ? He shall not have any medicine but that which Mr. Pestler sends for hi n . 
He told me that Daffy's Elixir was poison . 
Very good you think I'm a murderess then , replied Mrs. Sedley . 
This is the language you use to your mother . 
Mamma , said the poor girl , who was always ready for tears you shouldn't be hard upon me . 
Though I didn't poison YOU , when you were a child , but gave you the best of education and the most expensive masters money could procure . 
Ah , Mrs. Osborne ! may YOU never nourish a viper in your bosom , that's MY prayer . 
Mamma , Mamma ! cried the bewildered girl and the child in her arms set up a frantic chorus of shouts . 
A murderess , indeed ! Go down on your knees and pray to God to cleanse your wicked ungrateful heart , Amelia , and may He forgive you as I do . 
And Mrs. Sedley tossed out of the room , hissing out the word poison once more , and so ending her charitable benediction . 
Till the termination of her natural life , this breach between Mrs. Sedley and her daughter was never thoroughly mended . 
The quarrel gave the elder lady numberless advantages which she did not fail to turn to account with female ingenuity and perseverance . 
For instance , she scarcely spoke to Amelia for many weeks afterwards . 
She warned the domestics not to touch the child , as Mrs. Osborne might be offended . 
She asked her daughter to see and satisfy herself that there was no poison prepared in the little daily messes that were concocted for Georgy . 
When neighbours asked after the boy's health , she referred them pointedly to Mrs. Osborne . 
SHE never ventured to ask whether the baby was well or not . 
SHE would not touch the child although he was her grandson , and own precious darling , for she was not USED to children , and might kill it . 
In this room was all Amelia's heart and treasure . 
Here it was that she tended her boy and watched him through the many ills of childhood , with a constant passion of love . 
The elder George returned in him somehow , only improved , and as if come back from heaven . 
It was because of his likeness to his father , she did not scruple to tell him . 
To her parents she never talked about this matter , shrinking from baring her heart to them . 
Little George very likely could understand no better than they , but into his ears she poured her sentimental secrets unreservedly , and into his only . 
The very joy of this woman was a sort of grief , or so tender , at least , that its expression was tears . 
Her sensibilities were so weak and tremulous that perhaps they ought not to be talked about in a book . 
I was told by Dr . 
that her grief at weaning the child was a sight that would have unmanned a Herod . 
He was very soft hearted many years ago , and his wife was mortally jealous of Mrs. Amelia , then and long afterwards . 
For almost all men who came near her loved her though no doubt they would be at a loss to tell you why . 
She was not brilliant , nor witty , nor wise over much , nor extraordinarily handsome . 
But wherever she went she touched and charmed every one of the male sex , as invariably as she awakened the scorn and incredulity of her own sisterhood . 
I think it was her weakness which was her principal charm a kind of sweet submission and softness , which seemed to appeal to each man she met for his sympathy and protection . 
If she had been Mrs. Mango herself , of the great house of Mango , Plantain , and Co . 
Instances might be multiplied of this easily gained and unconscious popularity . 
When she comes to tea here she does not speak a word during the whole evening . 
She is but a poor lackadaisical creature , and it is my belief has no heart at all . 
It is only her pretty face which all you gentlemen admire so . 
Very likely Miss Binny was right to a great extent . 
It IS the pretty face which creates sympathy in the hearts of men , those wicked rogues . 
A woman may possess the wisdom and chastity of Minerva , and we give no heed to her , if she has a plain face . 
O ladies , ladies ! there are some of you who are neither handsome nor wise . 
These are but trivial incidents to recount in the life of our heroine . 
to the memory of that departed friend . 
During the day she was more active . 
She had to teach George to read and to write and a little to draw . 
She read books , in order that she might tell him stories from them . 
the mother and the little boy prayed to Our Father together , the mother pleading with all her gentle heart , the child lisping after her as she spoke . 
And each time they prayed to God to bless dear Papa , as if he were alive and in the room with them . 
always wore a black gown and a straw bonnet with a black ribbon occupied her many hours of the day . 
Others she had to spare , at the service of her mother and her old father . 
She had taken the pains to learn , and used to play cribbage with this gentleman on the nights when he did not go to his club . 
She sang for him when he was so minded , and it was a good sign , for he invariably fell into a comfortable sleep during the music . 
She wrote out his numerous memorials , letters , prospectuses , and projects . 
All he did was to sign the circulars with his flourish and signature , and direct them in a shaky , clerklike hand . 
One of these papers was sent to Major Dobbin , Regt . 
Cox and Greenwood but the Major being in Madras at the time , had no particular call for coals . 
He knew , though , the hand which had written the prospectus . 
orders for wine which perfectly astonished Mr. Sedley and Mr. Clapp , who was the Co . 
had to take it up , with the profits which they had made out of the Madras venture , and with a little portion of Emmy's savings . 
More than ever convinced that there was some roguery , old Sedley pursued the Major . 
As his daughter's nearest friend , he demanded with a high hand a statement of the late Captain's accounts . 
Come upstairs , sir , lisped out the Major . 
He paid his bills in England , Dobbin added , but he had not a hundred pounds in the world when he fell . 
About these expenses old Osborne had never given himself any trouble to think , nor any other relative of Amelia , nor Amelia herself , indeed . 
She trusted to Major Dobbin as an accountant , took his somewhat confused calculations for granted , and never once suspected how much she was in his debt . 
Twice or thrice in the year , according to her promise , she wrote him letters to Madras , letters all about little Georgy . 
How he treasured these papers ! Whenever Amelia wrote he answered , and not until then . 
But he sent over endless remembrances of himself to his godson and to her . 
He ordered and sent a box of scarfs and a grand ivory set of chess men from China . 
The pawns were little green and white men , with real swords and shields the knights were on horseback , the castles were on the backs of elephants . 
Mrs. Mango's own set at the Pineries was not so fine , Mr. Pestler remarked . 
These chess men were the delight of Georgy's life , who printed his first letter in acknowledgement of this gift of his godpapa . 
He sent over preserves and pickles , which latter the young gentleman tried surreptitiously in the sideboard and half killed himself with eating . 
He thought it was a judgement upon him for stealing , they were so hot . 
Emmy wrote a comical little account of this mishap to the Major it pleased him to think that her spirits were rallying and that she could be merry sometimes now . 
The shawls were worth fifty guineas apiece at the very least , as Mrs. Sedley knew . 
She wore hers in state at church at Brompton , and was congratulated by her female friends upon the splendid acquisition . 
Emmy's , too , became prettily her modest black gown . 
What a pity it is she won't think of him ! Mrs. Sedley remarked to Mrs. Clapp and to all her friends of Brompton . 
Jos never sent us such presents , I am sure , and grudges us everything . 
I'm sick of that miniature . 
I wish we had never seen those odious purse proud Osbornes . 
He ruled all the rest of the little world round about him . 
As he grew , the elders were amazed at his haughty manner and his constant likeness to his father . 
He asked questions about everything , as inquiring youth will do . 
The profundity of his remarks and interrogatories astonished his old grandfather , who perfectly bored the club at the tavern with stories about the little lad's learning and genius . 
He suffered his grandmother with a good humoured indifference . 
The small circle round about him believed that the equal of the boy did not exist upon the earth . 
Georgy inherited his father's pride , and perhaps thought they were not wrong . 
When he grew to be about six years old , Dobbin began to write to him very much . 
He had had the honour of making for the Captain , the young gentleman's father . 
One day they kindly came over to Amelia with news which they were SURE would delight her something VERY interesting about their dear William . 
What was it was he coming home ? she asked with pleasure beaming in her eyes . 
Amelia said Oh ! Amelia was very VERY happy indeed . 
But she supposed Glorvina could not be like her old acquaintance , who was most kind but but she was very happy indeed . 
And by some impulse of which I cannot explain the meaning , she took George in her arms and kissed him with an extraordinary tenderness . 
Her eyes were quite moist when she put the child down and she scarcely spoke a word during the whole of the drive though she was so very happy indeed . 
After counting upon thirty thousand pounds from his sister , it was a heavy blow . 
Mrs. Bute never knew , or at least never acknowledged , how far her own tyrannous behaviour had tended to ruin her husband . 
All that woman could do , she vowed and protested she had done . 
At least the money will remain in the family , she said charitably . 
She instructed her daughters how to bear poverty cheerfully , and invented a thousand notable methods to conceal or evade it . 
Her girls had more milliners' furniture than they had ever enjoyed before . 
Mrs. Bute certainly thought herself one of the most virtuous women in England , and the sight of her happy family was an edifying one to strangers . 
They were so cheerful , so loving , so well educated , so simple ! Martha painted flowers exquisitely and furnished half the charity bazaars in the county . 
Emma was a regular County Bulbul , and her verses in the Hampshire Telegraph were the glory of its Poet's Corner . 
Fanny and Matilda sang duets together , Mamma playing the piano , and the other two sisters sitting with their arms round each other's waists and listening affectionately . 
Nobody saw the poor girls drumming at the duets in private . 
No one saw Mamma drilling them rigidly hour after hour . 
In a word , Mrs. Bute put a good face against fortune and kept up appearances in the most virtuous manner . 
Everything that a good and respectable mother could do Mrs. Bute did . 
She got over yachting men from Southampton , parsons from the Cathedral Close at Winchester , and officers from the barracks there . 
The rupture between Bute and his brother Sir Pitt was complete indeed , between Sir Pitt and the whole county , to which the old man was a scandal . 
That was an awful and unfortunate visit , never to be thought of by the family without horror . 
The park wore an aspect of utter dreariness and ruin . 
The drives were ill kept , and the neat carriage splashed and floundered in muddy pools along the road . 
The great sweep in front of the terrace and entrance stair was black and covered with mosses the once trim flower beds rank and weedy . 
The library looked out on the front walk and park . 
Sir Pitt had opened one of the windows , and was bawling out thence to the postilion and Pitt's servant , who seemed to be about to take the baggage down . 
Don't move none of them trunks , he cried , pointing with a pipe which he held in his hand . 
It's only a morning visit , Tucker , you fool . 
You ain't like that old horse godmother , your mother . 
Come and give old Pitt a kiss , like a good little gal . 
The embrace disconcerted the daughter in law somewhat , as the caresses of the old gentleman , unshorn and perfumed with tobacco , might well do . 
But she remembered that her brother Southdown had mustachios , and smoked cigars , and submitted to the Baronet with a tolerable grace . 
Pitt has got vat , said the Baronet , after this mark of affection . 
I won't ask you to stop , my dear you'll find it too stoopid , and so should I too along a Pitt . 
I'm an old man now , and like my own ways , and my pipe and backgammon of a night . 
I can play at backgammon , sir , said Lady Jane , laughing . 
But she wawn't stop for all that . 
Naw , naw , goo back to Mudbury and give Mrs. Rincer a benefit or drive down to the Rectory and ask Buty for a dinner . 
He'll be charmed to see you , you know he's so much obliged to you for gettin' the old woman's money . 
Ha , ha ! Some of it will do to patch up the Hall when I'm gone . 
I perceive , sir , said Pitt with a heightened voice , that your people will cut down the timber . 
Yees , yees , very fine weather , and seasonable for the time of year , Sir Pitt answered , who had suddenly grown deaf . 
But I'm gittin' old , Pitt , now . 
Law bless you , you ain't far from fifty yourself . 
But he wears well , my pretty Lady Jane , don't he ? It's all godliness , sobriety , and a moral life . 
Look at me , I'm not very fur from fowr score he , he and he laughed , and took snuff , and leered at her and pinched her hand . 
Pitt once more brought the conversation back to the timber , but the Baronet was deaf again in an instant . 
I'm gittin' very old , and have been cruel bad this year with the lumbago . 
I shan't be here now for long but I'm glad ee've come , daughter in law . 
And he shuffled across the room to a cupboard , from which he took a little old case containing jewels of some value . 
Take that , said he , my dear it belonged to my mother , and afterwards to the first Lady Binkie . 
Pretty pearls never gave 'em the ironmonger's daughter . 
What have you a been and given Pitt's wife ? said the individual in ribbons , when Pitt and Lady Jane had taken leave of the old gentleman . 
It was Miss Horrocks , the butler's daughter the cause of the scandal throughout the county the lady who reigned now almost supreme at Queen's Crawley . 
The rise and progress of those Ribbons had been marked with dismay by the county and family . 
The Ribbons opened an account at the Mudbury Branch Savings Bank the Ribbons drove to church , monopolising the pony chaise , which was for the use of the servants at the Hall . 
The domestics were dismissed at her pleasure . 
Poor Lady Crawley's rose garden became the dreariest wilderness . 
Only two or three domestics shuddered in the bleak old servants' hall . 
The stables and offices were vacant , and shut up , and half ruined . 
, and the abandoned Ribbons . 
The times were very much changed since the period when she drove to Mudbury in the spring cart and called the small tradesmen Sir . 
It may have been shame , or it may have been dislike of his neighbours , but the old Cynic of Queen's Crawley hardly issued from his park gates at all now . 
He quarrelled with his agents and screwed his tenants by letter . 
The horror of Pitt Crawley may be imagined , as these reports of his father's dotage reached the most exemplary and correct of gentlemen . 
He trembled daily lest he should hear that the Ribbons was proclaimed his second legal mother in law . 
After that first and last visit , his father's name was never mentioned in Pitt's polite and genteel establishment . 
It was the skeleton in his house , and all the family walked by it in terror and silence . 
The Countess Southdown kept on dropping per coach at the lodge gate the most exciting tracts , tracts which ought to frighten the hair off your head . 
Mrs. Bute at the parsonage nightly looked out to see if the sky was red over the elms behind which the Hall stood , and the mansion was on fire . 
Miss Horrocks was installed as housekeeper at Queen's Crawley , and ruled all the domestics there with great majesty and rigour . 
that the dress became her prodigiously , and threatening to drive her off that very instant to Court in a coach and four . 
She had the ransacking of the wardrobes of the two defunct ladies , and cut and hacked their posthumous finery so as to suit her own tastes and figure . 
But Fate intervened enviously and prevented her from receiving the reward due to such immaculate love and virtue . 
This incident made the old Baronet roar with laughter , as usual . 
He narrated the circumstance a dozen times to Horrocks in the course of the evening , and greatly to the discomfiture of Miss Horrocks . 
He thrummed on the table as if it had been a musical instrument , and squalled in imitation of her manner of singing . 
He vowed that such a beautiful voice ought to be cultivated and declared she ought to have singing masters , in which proposals she saw nothing ridiculous . 
Half an hour afterwards there was a great hurry and bustle in the house . 
Lights went about from window to window in the lonely desolate old Hall , whereof but two or three rooms were ordinarily occupied by its owner . 
Presently , a boy on a pony went galloping off to Mudbury , to the Doctor's house there . 
She dropped them with a scream of terror , as little Mrs. Bute's eyes flashed out at her from under her black calash . 
Look at that , James and Mr. Crawley , ? cried Mrs. Bute , pointing at the scared figure of the black eyed , guilty wench . 
He gave 'em me he gave 'em me ! she cried . 
Gave them you , you abandoned creature ! screamed Mrs. Bute . 
Bear witness , Mr. Crawley , we found this good for nothing woman in the act of stealing your brother's property and she will be hanged , as I always said she would . 
Betsy Horrocks , quite daunted , flung herself down on her knees , bursting into tears . 
But those who know a really good woman are aware that she is not in a hurry to forgive , and that the humiliation of an enemy is a triumph to her soul . 
Ring the bell , James , Mrs. Bute said . 
Go on ringing it till the people come . 
The three or four domestics resident in the deserted old house came presently at that jangling and continued summons . 
Put that woman in the strong room , she said . 
We caught her in the act of robbing Sir Pitt . 
Mr. Crawley , you'll make out her committal and , Beddoes , you'll drive her over in the spring cart , in the morning , to Southampton Gaol . 
My dear , interposed the Magistrate and Rector she's only Are there no handcuffs ? Mrs. Bute continued , stamping in her clogs . 
There used to be handcuffs . 
Take 'em if you think they ain't mine . 
Give up your keys , you hardened hussy , hissed out the virtuous little lady in the calash . 
Hold your tongue , if you please . 
I know the room which the creature occupies perfectly well . 
Mrs. Brown , have the goodness to come with me , and Beddoes don't you lose sight of that woman , said Mrs. Bute , seizing the candle . 
Bute went upstairs and found the Doctor from Mudbury , with the frightened Horrocks over his master in a chair . 
They were trying to bleed Sir Pitt Crawley . 
He had been brought back to a sort of life he could not speak , but seemed to recognize people . 
Mrs. Bute kept resolutely by his bedside . 
She never seemed to want to sleep , that little woman , and did not close her fiery black eyes once , though the Doctor snored in the arm chair . 
Cowed by this behaviour , Horrocks gave up the keys , and he and his daughter slunk off silently through the night and gave up possession of the house of Queen's Crawley . 
For though the old Baronet survived many months , he never recovered the use of his intellect or his speech completely , and the government of the estate devolved upon his elder son . 
In a strange condition Pitt found it . 
To unravel these difficulties and to set the estate clear was a task worthy of the orderly and persevering diplomatist of Pumpernickel , and he set himself to work with prodigious assiduity . 
Mrs. Bute's intentions with regard to Miss Betsy Horrocks were not carried into effect , and she paid no visit to Southampton Gaol . 
She and her father left the Hall when the latter took possession of the Crawley Arms in the village , of which he had got a lease from Sir Pitt . 
The ex butler had obtained a small freehold there likewise , which gave him a vote for the borough . 
The Rector had another of these votes , and these and four others formed the representative body which returned the two members for Queen's Crawley . 
Her Ladyship kept her room when the ladies from the Rectory visited their cousins at the Hall . 
Perhaps Mr. Pitt was not very much displeased at these occasional absences of his mamma in law . 
To be considered young was complimentary , doubtless , but at six and forty to be treated as a boy was sometimes mortifying . 
Lady Jane yielded up everything , however , to her mother . 
, occupied the venerable Countess a great deal , so that she had but little time to devote to her granddaughter , the little Matilda , and her grandson , Master Pitt Crawley . 
The latter was a feeble child , and it was only by prodigious quantities of calomel that Lady Southdown was able to keep him in life at all . 
At least Mr. Crawley grumbled a good deal about paying half as much to Miss Hester for her constant attendance upon the Baronet his father . 
Lady Jane always walked by the old man , and was an evident favourite with him . 
He used to nod many times to her and smile when she came in , and utter inarticulate deprecatory moans when she was going away . 
At last a day came when the nurse's occupation was over . 
He would not use his aunt's money previously lest Sir Pitt should recover and his outlay be in vain . 
Miss Betsy , who was by this time married to a saddler at Mudbury , cried a good deal . 
The family surgeon rode over and paid his respectful compliments , and inquiries for the health of their ladyships . 
Shall I write to your brother or will you ? asked Lady Jane of her husband , Sir Pitt . 
I will write , of course , Sir Pitt said , and invite him to the funeral it will be but becoming . 
And and Mrs. Rawdon , said Lady Jane timidly . 
Jane ! said Lady Southdown , how can you think of such a thing ? Mrs. Rawdon must of course be asked , said Sir Pitt , resolutely . 
Not whilst I am in the house ! said Lady Southdown . 
Your Ladyship will be pleased to recollect that I am the head of this family , Sir Pitt replied . 
If you please , Lady Jane , you will write a letter to Mrs. Rawdon Crawley , requesting her presence upon this melancholy occasion . 
Jane , I forbid you to put pen to paper ! cried the Countess . 
Lady Southdown rose up as magnificent as Mrs. Siddons in Lady Macbeth and ordered that horses might be put to her carriage . 
If her son and daughter turned her out of their house , she would hide her sorrows somewhere in loneliness and pray for their conversion to better thoughts . 
We don't turn you out of our house , Mamma , said the timid Lady Jane imploringly . 
You invite such company to it as no Christian lady should meet , and I will have my horses to morrow morning . 
'Queen's Crawley , September , . 
Lady Jane looked up to her husband as if she would fain follow and soothe her mamma , but Pitt forbade his wife to move . 
She won't go away , he said . 
She has let her house at Brighton and has spent her last half year's dividends . 
A Countess living at an inn is a ruined woman . 
'My dear brother , the melancholy intelligence which it is my duty to convey to my family must have been long anticipated by , c . 
It pleased him to think that he should be its chief . 
This letter , with a huge black border and seal , was accordingly despatched by Sir Pitt Crawley to his brother the Colonel , in London . 
Rawdon Crawley was but half pleased at the receipt of it . 
What's the use of going down to that stupid place ? thought he . 
I can't stand being alone with Pitt after dinner , and horses there and back will cost us twenty pound . 
He carried the letter , as he did all difficulties , to Becky , upstairs in her bedroom with her chocolate , which he always made and took to her of a morning . 
He put the tray with the breakfast and the letter on the dressing table , before which Becky sat combing her yellow hair . 
She took up the black edged missive , and having read it , she jumped up from the chair , crying Hurray ! and waving the note round her head . 
Hurray ? said Rawdon , wondering at the little figure capering about in a streaming flannel dressing gown , with tawny locks dishevelled . 
He's not left us anything , Becky . 
I had my share when I came of age . 
You'll never be of age , you silly old man , Becky replied . 
You don't mean to go ? Rawdon interposed . 
Of course I mean to go . 
I mean that Lady Jane shall present me at Court next year . 
I mean that your brother shall give you a seat in Parliament , you stupid old creature . 
Posting will cost a dooce of a lot of money , grumbled Rawdon . 
It seems more humble Rawdy goes , of course ? the Colonel asked . 
No such thing why pay an extra place ? He's too big to travel bodkin between you and me . 
Let him stay here in the nursery , and Briggs can make him a black frock . 
Go you , and do as I bid you . 
And you had best tell Sparks , your man , that old Sir Pitt is dead and that you will come in for something considerable when the affairs are arranged . 
He'll tell this to Raggles , who has been pressing for money , and it will console poor Raggles . 
And so Becky began sipping her chocolate . 
Miss Briggs and I are plunged in grief and despondency for the death of our Papa , Rebecca said . 
Sir Pitt Crawley is dead , my lord . 
We have been tearing our hair all the morning , and now we are tearing up our old clothes . 
Oh , Rebecca , how can you was all that Briggs could say as she turned up her eyes . 
Oh , Rebecca , how can you echoed my Lord . 
So that old scoundrel's dead , is he ? He might have been a Peer if he had played his cards better . 
Mr. Pitt had very nearly made him but he ratted always at the wrong time . 
What an old Silenus it was ! I might have been Silenus's widow , said Rebecca . 
Briggs was the house dog whom Rebecca had provided as guardian of her innocence and reputation . 
Miss Crawley had left her a little annuity . 
made no objection to that exercise of the dowager's authority . 
Bowls and Firkin likewise received their legacies and their dismissals , and married and set up a lodging house , according to the custom of their kind . 
Briggs tried to live with her relations in the country , but found that attempt was vain after the better society to which she had been accustomed . 
Briggs's friends , small tradesmen , in a country town , quarrelled over Miss Briggs's forty pounds a year as eagerly and more openly than Miss Crawley's kinsfolk had for that lady's inheritance . 
The dissenting shoemaker wanted Miss Briggs to send his son to college and make a gentleman of him . 
And advertising in the papers that a Gentlewoman of agreeable manners , and accustomed to the best society , was anxious to , c . 
, she took up her residence with Mr. Bowls in Half Moon Street , and waited the result of the advertisement . 
So it was that she fell in with Rebecca . 
So , in a word , Briggs told all her history , and Becky gave a narrative of her own life , with her usual artlessness and candour . 
Mrs. Bowls , late Firkin , came and listened grimly in the passage to the hysterical sniffling and giggling which went on in the front parlour . 
Becky had never been a favourite of hers . 
Since the establishment of the married couple in London they had frequented their former friends of the house of Raggles , and did not like the latter's account of the Colonel's menage . 
Mrs. Bowls cautioned her lodger against venturing into the lion's den , wherein you will rue it , Miss B. , mark my words , and as sure as my name is Bowls . 
And Briggs promised to be very cautious . 
The upshot of which caution was that she went to live with Mrs. Rawdon the next week , and had lent Rawdon Crawley six hundred pounds upon annuity before six months were over . 
At Mudbury a carriage and a pair of horses received them , with a coachman in black . 
It's the old drag , Rawdon , Rebecca said as they got in . 
It was a bottle of cherry brandy he broke which we went to fetch for your aunt from Southampton . 
How time flies , to be sure ! That can't be Polly Talboys , that bouncing girl standing by her mother at the cottage there . 
I remember her a mangy little urchin picking weeds in the garden . 
Fine gal , said Rawdon , returning the salute which the cottage gave him , by two fingers applied to his crape hatband . 
Becky bowed and saluted , and recognized people here and there graciously . 
These recognitions were inexpressibly pleasant to her . 
It seemed as if she was not an imposter any more , and was coming to the home of her ancestors . 
Rawdon was rather abashed and cast down , on the other hand . 
Don't know , I'm shaw , replied the Colonel . 
Hullo ! here's old Mother Lock . 
How dy do , Mrs. Lock ? Remember me , don't you ? Master Rawdon , hey ? Dammy how those old women last she was a hundred when I was a boy . 
The governor has cut into the timber , Rawdon said , looking about , and then was silent so was Becky . 
Both of them were rather agitated , and thinking of old times . 
The gravel walk and terrace had been scraped quite clean . 
Rawdon turned red , and Becky somewhat pale , as they passed through the old hall , arm in arm . 
She pinched her husband's arm as they entered the oak parlour , where Sir Pitt and his wife were ready to receive them . 
Sir Pitt had judged correctly , that she would not quit the premises . 
Only a very faint bending of the head dress and plumes welcomed Rawdon and his wife , as those prodigals returned to their family . 
To say the truth , they were not affected very much one way or other by this coolness . 
Her Ladyship was a person only of secondary consideration in their minds just then they were intent upon the reception which the reigning brother and sister would afford them . 
Pitt , with rather a heightened colour , went up and shook his brother by the hand , and saluted Rebecca with a hand shake and a very low bow . 
But Lady Jane took both the hands of her sister in law and kissed her affectionately . 
The embrace somehow brought tears into the eyes of the little adventuress which ornaments , as we know , she wore very seldom . 
Dev'lish nice little woman , Lady Jane , was his verdict , when he and his wife were together again . 
Pitt's got fat , too , and is doing the thing handsomely . 
They , too , had been summoned from school to attend the funeral ceremonies . 
It seemed Sir Pitt Crawley , for the dignity of the house and family , had thought right to have about the place as many persons in black as could possibly be assembled . 
In fact you would have supposed that ever since she had left them she had not ceased to keep them uppermost in her thoughts and to take the tenderest interest in their welfare . 
So supposed Lady Crawley herself and her young sisters . 
She's hardly changed since eight years , said Miss Rosalind to Miss Violet , as they were preparing for dinner . 
Those red haired women look wonderfully well , replied the other . 
Hers is much darker than it was I think she must dye it , Miss Rosalind added . 
She is stouter , too , and altogether improved , continued Miss Rosalind , who was disposed to be very fat . 
There are other very well meaning people whom one meets every day in Vanity Fair who are surely equally oblivious . 
It can't be true what the girls at the Rectory said , that her mother was an opera dancer A person can't help their birth , Rosalind replied with great liberality . 
And I agree with our brother , that as she is in the family , of course we are bound to notice her . 
I am sure Aunt Bute need not talk she wants to marry Kate to young Hooper , the wine merchant , and absolutely asked him to come to the Rectory for orders . 
I wonder whether Lady Southdown will go away , she looked very glum upon Mrs. Rawdon , the other said . 
What I should like best , said Rebecca , would be to go to the nursery and see your dear little children . 
On which the two ladies looked very kindly at each other and went to that apartment hand in hand . 
I wish Mamma would not insist on giving him so much medicine , Lady Jane said with a sigh . 
I often think we should all be better without it . 
Let my fair readers remark for themselves this very evening when they quit the dessert table and assemble to celebrate the drawing room mysteries . 
And so having easily won the daughter's good will , the indefatigable little woman bent herself to conciliate the august Lady Southdown . 
It did not much comfort Mrs. Rawdon her countenance was very queer when Rawdon came in and heard what had happened and . 
Lord Steyne , and her son in London , had many a laugh over the story when Rawdon and his wife returned to their quarters in May Fair . 
Becky acted the whole scene for them . 
She put on a night cap and gown . 
Give us Lady Southdown and the black dose , was a constant cry amongst the folks in Becky's little drawing room in May Fair . 
And for the first time in her life the Dowager Countess of Southdown was made amusing . 
Sir Pitt remembered the testimonies of respect and veneration which Rebecca had paid personally to himself in early days , and was tolerably well disposed towards her . 
His satisfaction was not removed by Rebecca's own statements , behaviour , and conversation . 
I am sure Sir Pitt will make a much better use of it than Rawdon would . 
would have a pang of mortification at finding how soon our survivors were consoled . 
And so Sir Pitt was forgotten like the kindest and best of us only a few weeks sooner . 
Then the tenantry mounted on horseback again , or stayed and refreshed themselves at the Crawley Arms . 
The sight of those fields of stubble and turnips , now his own , gave him many secret joys . 
Pitt's money and acres had a great effect upon his brother . 
The penniless Colonel became quite obsequious and respectful to the head of his house , and despised the milksop Pitt no longer . 
the rebellious dragoon was quite humbled and subdued , and became a most creditable younger brother . 
He had constant bulletins from Miss Briggs in London respecting little Rawdon , who was left behind there , who sent messages of his own . 
I am very well , he wrote . 
I hope you are very well . 
I hope Mamma is very well . 
The pony is very well . 
Grey takes me to ride in the park . 
I met the little boy who rode before . 
He cried when he cantered . 
Rawdon read these letters to his brother and Lady Jane , who was delighted with them . 
One day followed another , and the ladies of the house passed their life in those calm pursuits and amusements which satisfy country ladies . 
Bells rang to meals and to prayers . 
The young ladies took exercise on the pianoforte every morning after breakfast , Rebecca giving them the benefit of her instruction . 
Lady Southdown drove out in a pony chaise , when Rebecca would take her place by the Dowager's side and listen to her solemn talk with the utmost interest . 
It isn't difficult to be a country gentleman's wife , Rebecca thought . 
I think I could be a good woman if I had five thousand a year . 
I could dawdle about in the nursery and count the apricots on the wall . 
I could water plants in a green house and pick off dead leaves from the geraniums . 
I could ask old women about their rheumatisms and order half a crown's worth of soup for the poor . 
I shouldn't miss it much , out of five thousand a year . 
I could even drive out ten miles to dine at a neighbour's , and dress in the fashions of the year before last . 
I could go to church and keep awake in the great family pew , or go to sleep behind the curtains , with my veil down , if I only had practice . 
I could pay everybody , if I had but the money . 
This is what the conjurors here pride themselves upon doing . 
They look down with pity upon us miserable sinners who have none . 
They think themselves generous if they give our children a five pound note , and us contemptible if we are without one . 
Becky consoled herself by so balancing the chances and equalizing the distribution of good and evil in the world . 
I have passed beyond it , because I have brains , Becky thought , and almost all the rest of the world are fools . 
I could not go back and consort with those people now , whom I used to meet in my father's studio . 
Lords come up to my door with stars and garters , instead of poor artists with screws of tobacco in their pockets . 
I have a gentleman for my husband , and an Earl's daughter for my sister , in the very house where I was little better than a servant a few years ago . 
Heigho ! I wish I could exchange my position in society , and all my relations for a snug sum in the Three Per Cent . 
Consols for so it was that Becky felt the Vanity of human affairs , and it was in those securities that she would have liked to cast anchor . 
She eluded them and despised them or at least she was committed to the other path from which retreat was now impossible . 
We grieve at being found out and at the idea of shame or punishment , but the mere sense of wrong makes very few people unhappy in Vanity Fair . 
So Rebecca , during her stay at Queen's Crawley , made as many friends of the Mammon of Unrighteousness as she could possibly bring under control . 
Lady Jane and her husband bade her farewell with the warmest demonstrations of good will . 
They looked forward with pleasure to the time when , the family house in Gaunt Street being repaired and beautified , they were to meet again in London . 
Lady Southdown made her up a packet of medicine and sent a letter by her to the Rev . 
Lawrence Grills , exhorting that gentleman to save the brand who honoured the letter from the burning . 
Pitt accompanied them with four horses in the carriage to Mudbury , having sent on their baggage in a cart previously , accompanied with loads of game . 
How happy you will be to see your darling little boy again ! Lady Crawley said , taking leave of her kinswoman . 
Oh so happy ! said Rebecca , throwing up the green eyes . 
She was immensely happy to be free of the place , and yet loath to go . 
Queen's Crawley was abominably stupid , and yet the air there was somehow purer than that which she had been accustomed to breathe . 
Everybody had been dull , but had been kind in their way . 
It is all the influence of a long course of Three Per Cents , Becky said to herself , and was right very likely . 
CHAPTER XLII Which Treats of the Osborne Family Considerable time has elapsed since we have seen our respectable friend , old Mr. Osborne of Russell Square . 
He has not been the happiest of mortals since last we met him . 
Events have occurred which have not improved his temper , and in more in stances than one he has not been allowed to have his own way . 
His stiff black hair began to grow quite white soon after his son's death his face grew redder his hands trembled more and more as he poured out his glass of port wine . 
He led his clerks a dire life in the City his family at home were not much happier . 
He had proposed for Miss Swartz , but had been rejected scornfully by the partisans of that lady , who married her to a young sprig of Scotch nobility . 
She had a fine carriage and fine horses and sat at the head of a table loaded with the grandest plate . 
, of the house of Bullock , Hulker , and Bullock , had married Maria Osborne , not without a great deal of difficulty and grumbling on Mr. Bullock's part . 
Osborne said Fred had agreed to take his daughter with twenty thousand , and he should bind himself to no more . 
Fred might take it , and welcome , or leave it , and go and be hanged . 
Jane Osborne condoled with her sister Maria during this family feud . 
I always told you , Maria , that it was your money he loved and not you , she said , soothingly . 
He selected me and my money at any rate he didn't choose you and yours , replied Maria , tossing up her head . 
The rapture was , however , only temporary . 
So he knuckled down , again to use his own phrase , and sent old Hulker with peaceable overtures to Osborne . 
It was his father , he said , who would not hear of the match , and had made the difficulties he was most anxious to keep the engagement . 
The excuse was sulkily accepted by Mr. Osborne . 
Hulker and Bullock were a high family of the City aristocracy , and connected with the nobs at the West End . 
It was something for the old man to be able to say , My son , sir , of the house of Hulker , Bullock , and Co . 
, sir my daughter's cousin , Lady Mary Mango , sir , daughter of the Right Hon . 
In his imagination he saw his house peopled by the nobs . 
So he forgave young Bullock and consented that the marriage should take place . 
It was a grand affair the bridegroom's relatives giving the breakfast , their habitations being near St . 
George's , Hanover Square , where the business took place . 
The nobs of the West End were invited , and many of them signed the book . 
and a host of fashionables , who have all married into Lombard Street and done a great deal to ennoble Cornhill . 
The young couple had a house near Berkeley Square and a small villa at Roehampton , among the banking colony there . 
That she should utterly break with the old man , who had still so many scores of thousand pounds to give away , is absurd to suppose . 
Fred Bullock would never allow her to do that . 
, and to meet City folks and littery men , and keeps the Earls and the Ladies , and the Honourables to herself . 
I am a plain British merchant I am , and could buy the beggarly hounds over and over . 
Lords , indeed ! why , at one of her swarreys I saw one of 'em speak to a dam fiddler a fellar I despise . 
Drive on quick , James I want to get back to Russell Square ha , ha ! and he sank back into the corner with a furious laugh . 
With such reflections on his own superior merit , it was the custom of the old gentleman not unfrequently to console himself . 
That's more than any of your Lords will give , I'LL warrant , he said and refused to attend at the ceremony . 
The splendour of the gift , however , caused great satisfaction to the house of Bullock . 
Maria thought that her father was very much pleased with her , and Frederick augured the best for his little son and heir . 
Jane's own life , as we have said , admitted of no such grandeur . 
It was an awful existence . 
She remained silent opposite to him , listening to the urn hissing , and sitting in tremor while the parent read his paper and consumed his accustomed portion of muffins and tea . 
, or which they shared twice in a month with a party of dismal friends of Osborne's rank and age . 
Sir Thomas was celebrated as a hanging judge , and the particular tawny port was produced when he dined with Mr. Osborne . 
These people and their like gave the pompous Russell Square merchant pompous dinners back again . 
They had solemn rubbers of whist , when they went upstairs after drinking , and their carriages were called at half past ten . 
Many rich people , whom we poor devils are in the habit of envying , lead contentedly an existence like that above described . 
Jane Osborne scarcely ever met a man under sixty , and almost the only bachelor who appeared in their society was Mr. Smirk , the celebrated ladies' doctor . 
Mr. Smee has forgotten where Russell Square is now , but he was glad enough to visit it in the year , when Miss Osborne had instruction from him . 
Miss Wirt was the confidante of this intrigue . 
Jane Osborne kept her bedroom for many days . 
She was not allowed to have a companion afterwards . 
During her papa's life , then , she resigned herself to the manner of existence here described , and was content to be an old maid . 
Her sister , meanwhile , was having children with finer names every year and the intercourse between the two grew fainter continually . 
Jane and I do not move in the same sphere of life , Mrs. Bullock said . 
The Misses Dobbin , who drove often to Brompton to see our dear Amelia , came sometimes to Russell Square too , to pay a visit to their old acquaintance Miss Osborne . 
She congratulated him on the happy news which his sisters had just conveyed to her . 
She prayed for his prosperity and that of the bride he had chosen . 
She thanked him for a thousand thousand kind offices and proofs of stead fast friendship to her in her affliction . 
She told him the last news about little Georgy , and how he was gone to spend that very day with his sisters in the country . 
She underlined the letter a great deal , and she signed herself affectionately his friend , Amelia Osborne . 
But the news of the marriage removed the reserve which she had kept up towards him . 
, Amelia would have scouted it , if an angel from heaven had hinted it to her . 
That night , when Georgy came back in the pony carriage in which he rejoiced , and in which he was driven by Sir Wm . 
Dobbin's old coachman , he had round his neck a fine gold chain and watch . 
He said an old lady , not pretty , had given it him , who cried and kissed him a great deal . 
But he didn't like her . 
He liked grapes very much . 
And he only liked his mamma . 
Amelia shrank and started the timid soul felt a presentiment of terror when she heard that the relations of the child's father had seen him . 
Miss Osborne came back to give her father his dinner . 
He had made a good speculation in the City , and was rather in a good humour that day , and chanced to remark the agitation under which she laboured . 
What's the matter , Miss Osborne ? he deigned to say . 
The woman burst into tears . 
Oh , sir , she said , I've seen little George . 
Time has dealt kindly with that stout officer , as it does ordinarily with men who have good stomachs and good tempers and are not perplexed over much by fatigue of the brain . 
The Colonel plays a good knife and fork at tiffin and resumes those weapons with great success at dinner . 
He smokes his hookah after both meals and puffs as quietly while his wife scolds him as he did under the fire of the French at Waterloo . 
Age and heat have not diminished the activity or the eloquence of the descendant of the Malonys and the Molloys . 
Her Ladyship , our old acquaintance , is as much at home at Madras as at Brussels in the cantonment as under the tents . 
On the march you saw her at the head of the regiment seated on a royal elephant , a noble sight . 
The sentries of all arms salute her wherever she makes her appearance , and she touches her hat gravely to their salutation . 
cabal against her a good deal . 
They say that Glorvina gives herself airs and that Peggy herself is ill tolerably domineering . 
unless he broke off at once and went to the Cape on sick leave . 
Among other points , she had made up her mind that Glorvina should marry our old friend Dobbin . 
Mrs. O'Dowd knew the Major's expectations and appreciated his good qualities and the high character which he enjoyed in his profession . 
Look at Glorvina enter a room , Mrs. O'Dowd would say , and compare her with that poor Mrs. Osborne , who couldn't say boo to a goose . 
She'd be worthy of you , Major you're a quiet man yourself , and want some one to talk for ye . 
But before she had come to such a resolution and determined to subjugate Major Dobbin by her endearments , it must be owned that Glorvina had practised them a good deal elsewhere . 
She had been engaged to be married a half score times in Ireland , besides the clergyman at Bath who used her so ill . 
There are women , and handsome women too , who have this fortune in life . 
, was just at the point of proposing to her . 
Undismayed by forty or fifty previous defeats , Glorvina laid siege to him . 
She sang Irish melodies at him unceasingly . 
She asked him so frequently and pathetically , Will ye come to the bower ? that it is a wonder how any man of feeling could have resisted the invitation . 
She was never tired of inquiring , if Sorrow had his young days faded , and was ready to listen and weep like Desdemona at the stories of his dangers and his campaigns . 
Glorvina forced the Major to ride with her of mornings . 
The whole cantonment saw them set out and return . 
She was constantly writing notes over to him at his house , borrowing his books , and scoring with her great pencil marks such passages of sentiment or humour as awakened her sympathy . 
Dobbin , who was thus vigorously besieged , was in the meanwhile in a state of the most odious tranquillity . 
He used to laugh when the young fellows of the regiment joked him about Glorvina's manifest attentions to him . 
Bah ! said he , she is only keeping her hand in she practises upon me as she does upon Mrs. Tozer's piano , because it's the most handy instrument in the station . 
I am much too battered and old for such a fine young lady as Glorvina . 
But the truth is , neither beauty nor fashion could conquer him . 
Our honest friend had but one idea of a woman in his head , and that one did not in the least resemble Miss Glorvina O'Dowd in pink satin . 
But what man in love , of us , is better informed ? or is he much happier when he sees and owns his delusion ? Dobbin was under this spell . 
He did not bother his friends and the public much about his feelings , or indeed lose his natural rest or appetite on account of them . 
His head has grizzled since we saw him last , and a line or two of silver may be seen in the soft brown hair likewise . 
But his feelings are not in the least changed or oldened , and his love remains as fresh as a man's recollections of boyhood are . 
Your sister has just kindly visited me , Amelia wrote in her letter , and informed me of an INTERESTING EVENT , upon which I beg to offer my MOST SINCERE CONGRATULATIONS . 
I hope the young lady to whom I hear you are to be UNITED will in every respect prove worthy of one who is himself all kindness and goodness . 
, put the receiver into such a state of mind that Glorvina , and her pink satin , and everything belonging to her became perfectly odious to him . 
The Major cursed the talk of women , and the sex in general . 
Everything annoyed him that day the parade was insufferably hot and wearisome . 
The old man had listened to those jokes any time these thirty years Dobbin himself had been fifteen years hearing them . 
And after the boisterous dulness of the mess table , the quarrels and scandal of the ladies of the regiment ! It was unbearable , shameful . 
He would like to have done with life and its vanity altogether so bootless and unsatisfactory the struggle , so cheerless and dreary the prospect seemed to him . 
He lay all that night sleepless , and yearning to go home . 
Amelia's letter had fallen as a blank upon him . 
No fidelity , no constant truth and passion , could move her into warmth . 
She would not see that he loved her . 
Tossing in his bed , he spoke out to her . 
Glorvina sported the killing pink frock , and the Major , who attended the party and walked very ruefully up and down the rooms , never so much as perceived the pink garment . 
It was not jealousy , or frocks , or shoulders that could move him , and Glorvina had nothing more . 
So these two were each exemplifying the Vanity of this life , and each longing for what he or she could not get . 
Glorvina cried with rage at the failure . 
She had set her mind on the Major more than on any of the others , she owned , sobbing . 
Fat or thin , laughing or melancholy , on horseback or the music stool , it was all the same to the Major . 
, Major Dobbin took leave of the Colonel's family at his usual hour and retired to his own house . 
There on his table , his sister's letter lay reproaching him . 
He took it up , ashamed rather of his negligence regarding it , and prepared himself for a disagreeable hour's communing with that crabbed handed absent relative . 
O'Dowd Colonel ! said Dobbin and kept up a great shouting . 
Heavens , Meejor ! said Glorvina of the curl papers , putting out her head too , from her window . 
What is it , Dob , me boy ? said the Colonel , expecting there was a fire in the station , or that the route had come from headquarters . 
I I must have leave of absence . 
I must go to England on the most urgent private affairs , Dobbin said . 
Good heavens , what has happened ! thought Glorvina , trembling with all the papillotes . 
I want to be off now to night , Dobbin continued and the Colonel getting up , came out to parley with him . 
In the postscript of Miss Dobbin's cross letter , the Major had just come upon a paragraph , to the following effect I drove yesterday to see your old ACQUAINTANCE , Mrs. Osborne . 
The little boy , your godson , is certainly a fine child , though forward , and inclined to be saucy and self willed . 
But we have taken notice of him as you wish it , and have introduced him to his aunt , Miss O. , who was rather pleased with him . 
And Amelia will not be ill disposed to give him up . 
The widow is CONSOLED , and is about to marry a reverend gentleman , the Rev . 
Mr. Binny , one of the curates of Brompton . 
But Mrs. O. is getting old , and I saw a great deal of grey in her hair she was in very good spirits and your little godson overate himself at our house . 
Mamma sends her love with that of your affectionate , Ann Dobbin . 
A little woman , with a carriage to correspond , was perpetually seen about this mansion an elderly spinster , accompanied by a little boy , also might be remarked coming thither daily . 
It was impossible sometimes to resist this artless little creature's hospitalities , so kindly were they pressed , so frankly and amiably offered . 
Becky seized Pitt's hand in a transport of gratitude when he agreed to come . 
She came in herself laughing , with a coal scuttle out of her own room . 
I knew I should bring you , she said with pleasure beaming in her glance . 
Indeed , she was really sincerely happy at having him for a guest . 
Becky made Rawdon dine out once or twice on business , while Pitt stayed with them , and the Baronet passed the happy evening alone with her and Briggs . 
She went downstairs to the kitchen and actually cooked little dishes for him . 
Isn't it a good salmi ? she said I made it for you . 
I can make you better dishes than that , and will when you come to see me . 
Everything you do , you do well , said the Baronet gallantly . 
The salmi is excellent indeed . 
Whenever Mrs. Rawdon wished to be particularly humble and virtuous , this little shirt used to come out of her work box . 
It had got to be too small for Rawdon long before it was finished . 
Becky had hinted every one of these things herself , perhaps , but so delicately and gently that you hardly knew when or where . 
I wish you could have got a little money out of him , Rawdon said to his wife moodily when the Baronet was gone . 
I should like to give something to old Raggles , hanged if I shouldn't . 
It ain't right , you know , that the old fellow should be kept out of all his money . 
It may be inconvenient , and he might let to somebody else besides us , you know . 
Tell him , said Becky , that as soon as Sir Pitt's affairs are settled , everybody will be paid , and give him a little something on account . 
The truth is , she had tried personally the ground on which her husband expressed a wish that she should venture tried it ever so delicately , and found it unsafe . 
Even at a hint about embarrassments , Sir Pitt Crawley was off and alarmed . 
Pitt knew how poor his brother and his brother's family must be . 
Such , at least , are my feelings , when I see A. B. or W. T. 's insufficient acts of repentance . 
Not everybody is willing to pay even so much . 
To part with money is a sacrifice beyond almost all men endowed with a sense of order . 
There is scarcely any man alive who does not think himself meritorious for giving his neighbour five pounds . 
Thriftless gives , not from a beneficent pleasure in giving , but from a lazy delight in spending . 
He would not deny himself one enjoyment not his opera stall , not his horse , not his dinner , not even the pleasure of giving Lazarus the five pounds . 
Money has only a different value in the eyes of each . 
So , in a word , Pitt Crawley thought he would do something for his brother , and then thought that he would think about it some other time . 
She was acknowledged by the head of the family . 
If Pitt would not give her anything , he would get something for her some day . 
If she got no money from her brother in law , she got what was as good as money credit . 
Here , as he grew to be about eight years old , his attachments may be said to have ended . 
The beautiful mother vision had faded away after a while . 
During near two years she had scarcely spoken to the child . 
He had the measles and the hooping cough . 
His mother came out and struck him violently a couple of boxes on the ear . 
and fled down below to his friends of the kitchen , bursting in an agony of grief . 
It is not because it hurts me , little Rawdon gasped out only only sobs and tears wound up the sentence in a storm . 
It was the little boy's heart that was bleeding . 
After this incident , the mother's dislike increased to hatred the consciousness that the child was in the house was a reproach and a pain to her . 
His very sight annoyed her . 
Fear , doubt , and resistance sprang up , too , in the boy's own bosom . 
They were separated from that day of the boxes on the ear . 
Lord Steyne also heartily disliked the boy . 
When they met by mischance , he made sarcastic bows or remarks to the child , or glared at him with savage looking eyes . 
Rawdon used to stare him in the face and double his little fists in return . 
He knew his enemy , and this gentleman , of all who came to the house , was the one who angered him most . 
One day the footman found him squaring his fists at Lord Steyne's hat in the hall . 
The footman told the circumstance as a good joke to Lord Steyne's coachman that officer imparted it to Lord Steyne's gentleman , and to the servants' hall in general . 
The man who brought her refreshment and stood behind her chair , had talked her character over with the large gentleman in motley coloured clothes at his side . 
behind him , in the shape of the hulking fellow carrying the wafer biscuits . 
Madam , your secret will be talked over by those men at their club at the public house to night . 
Jeames will tell Chawles his notions about you over their pipes and pewter beer pots . 
Some people ought to have mutes for servants in Vanity Fair mutes who could not write . 
If you are guilty , tremble . 
That fellow behind your chair may be a Janissary with a bow string in his plush breeches pocket . 
If you are not guilty , have a care of appearances , which are as ruinous as guilt . 
Was Rebecca guilty or not ? the Vehmgericht of tho servants' hall had pronounced against her . 
And , I shame to say , she would not have got credit had they not believed her to be guilty . 
And so guiltless very likely she was writhing and pushing onward towards what they call a position in society , and the servants were pointing at her as lost and ruined . 
A day or two before Christmas , Becky , her husband and her son made ready and went to pass the holidays at the seat of their ancestors at Queen's Crawley . 
He shan't bother you much at home he will be away from you in the nursery , and he shall go outside on the coach with me . 
Where you go yourself because you want to smoke those filthy cigars , replied Mrs. Rawdon . 
I remember when you liked 'em though , answered the husband . 
Becky laughed she was almost always good humoured . 
That was when I was on my promotion , Goosey , she said . 
Take Rawdon outside with you and give him a cigar too if you like . 
Then the kind hostess conducted her guests to the snug apartments blazing with cheerful fires . 
Little Rawdon exhibited a fine appetite and showed a gentlemanlike behaviour . 
I like to dine here , said Rawdon Minor , looking up at his relation's kind face . 
Why ? said the good Lady Jane . 
I dine in the kitchen when I am at home , replied Rawdon Minor , or else with Briggs . 
It was the first time the poor little boy had ever witnessed or heard of such a ceremonial . 
The house had been much improved even since the Baronet's brief reign , and was pronounced by Becky to be perfect , charming , delightful , when she surveyed it in his company . 
As for little Rawdon , who examined it with the children for his guides , it seemed to him a perfect palace of enchantment and wonder . 
There were long galleries , and ancient state bedrooms , there were pictures and old China , and armour . 
There were the rooms in which Grandpapa died , and by which the children walked with terrified looks . 
The brothers had good occupation for several mornings in examining the improvements which had been effected by Sir Pitt's genius and economy . 
And as they walked or rode , and looked at them , they could talk without too much boring each other . 
CHAPTER XLV Between Hampshire and London Sir Pitt Crawley had done more than repair fences and restore dilapidated lodges on the Queen's Crawley estate . 
Lady Jane was instructed to be friendly with the Fuddlestones , and the Wapshots , and the other famous baronets , their neighbours . 
, and in return Pitt and his wife most energetically dined out in all sorts of weather and at all sorts of distances . 
He talked about crops , corn laws , politics , with the best country gentlemen . 
entered into poaching and game preserving with ardour . 
Lady Jane was only too obedient , and perhaps glad herself to go . 
A great part of the altered demeanour and popularity of Sir Pitt Crawley might have been traced to the counsels of that astute little lady of Curzon Street . 
You remain a Baronet you consent to be a mere country gentleman , she said to him , while he had been her guest in London . 
No , Sir Pitt Crawley , I know you better . 
I know your talents and your ambition . 
You fancy you hide them both , but you can conceal neither from me . 
I showed Lord Steyne your pamphlet on malt . 
He was familiar with it , and said it was in the opinion of the whole Cabinet the most masterly thing that had appeared on the subject . 
The Ministry has its eye upon you , and I know what you want . 
You want to distinguish yourself in Parliament every one says you are the finest speaker in England . 
You want to be Member for the County , where , with your own vote and your borough at your back , you can command anything . 
And you want to be Baron Crawley of Queen's Crawley , and will be before you die . 
I could read your heart , Sir Pitt . 
Poor little penniless , I have got a little interest and who knows , perhaps the mouse may be able to aid the lion . 
Pitt Crawley was amazed and enraptured with her speech . 
How that woman comprehends me ! he said . 
I never could get Jane to read three pages of the malt pamphlet . 
She has no idea that I have commanding talents or secret ambition . 
Achilles did not declare himself until they gave him the sword . 
I hold it now , and the world shall yet hear of Pitt Crawley . 
On Christmas Day a great family gathering took place . 
All the Crawleys from the Rectory came to dine . 
They respected a possible baronet in the boy , between whom and the title there was only the little sickly pale Pitt Binkie . 
The children were very good friends . 
He took the command of this small party at once the little girl and the little boy following him about with great reverence at such times as he condescended to sport with them . 
His happiness and pleasure in the country were extreme . 
For Rebecca , seeing that tenderness was the fashion , called Rawdon to her one evening and stooped down and kissed him in the presence of all the ladies . 
He looked her full in the face after the operation , trembling and turning very red , as his wont was when moved . 
You never kiss me at home , Mamma , he said , at which there was a general silence and consternation and a by no means pleasant look in Becky's eyes . 
Rawdon was fond of his sister in law , for her regard for his son . 
Lady Jane and Becky did not get on quite so well at this visit as on occasion of the former one , when the Colonel's wife was bent upon pleasing . 
Those two speeches of the child struck rather a chill . 
Perhaps Sir Pitt was rather too attentive to her . 
He and the Baronet's keeper were very close friends , their mutual taste for dawgs bringing them much together . 
On one day , Mr. James , the Colonel , and Horn , the keeper , went and shot pheasants , taking little Rawdon with them . 
On another most blissful morning , these four gentlemen partook of the amusement of rat hunting in a barn , than which sport Rawdon as yet had never seen anything more noble . 
scarcely breathing from excitement , listening motionless on three legs , to the faint squeaking of the rats below . 
But the greatest day of all was that on which Sir Huddlestone Fuddlestone's hounds met upon the lawn at Queen's Crawley . 
That was a famous sight for little Rawdon . 
Next comes boy Jack , Tom Moody's son , who weighs five stone , measures eight and forty inches , and will never be any bigger . 
He is perched on a large raw boned hunter , half covered by a capacious saddle . 
This animal is Sir Huddlestone Fuddlestone's favourite horse the Nob . 
Other horses , ridden by other small boys , arrive from time to time , awaiting their masters , who will come cantering on anon . 
Tom Moody rides up to the door of the Hall , where he is welcomed by the butler , who offers him drink , which he declines . 
Meanwhile , Sir Huddlestone has hoisted himself unwieldily on the Nob Let's try Sowster's Spinney , Tom , says the Baronet , Farmer Mangle tells me there are two foxes in it . 
Hounds and horsemen disappear , and little Rawdon remains on the doorsteps , wondering and happy . 
He has already eschewed green coats , red neckcloths , and other worldly ornaments , and is preparing himself for a change in his condition . 
In this cheap and thrifty way Sir Pitt tries to pay off his debt to his family . 
Rawdon and his son went away with the utmost heaviness of heart . 
Becky and the ladies parted with some alacrity , however , and our friend returned to London to commence those avocations with which we find her occupied when this chapter begins . 
For the first session , this profound dissembler hid his projects and never opened his lips but to present a petition from Mudbury . 
But he attended assiduously in his place and learned thoroughly the routine and business of the House . 
And he made acquaintance with the ministers , and the chiefs of his party , determining to rank as one of them before many years were over . 
Lady Jane's sweetness and kindness had inspired Rebecca with such a contempt for her ladyship as the little woman found no small difficulty in concealing . 
Her presence , too , rendered Lady Jane uneasy . 
Her husband talked constantly with Becky . 
Signs of intelligence seemed to pass between them , and Pitt spoke with her on subjects on which he never thought of discoursing with Lady Jane . 
, and Becky came into the room , sneering with green scornful eyes , poor Lady Jane grew silent under those baleful glances . 
Her simple little fancies shrank away tremulously , as fairies in the story books , before a superior bad angel . 
She could not go on , although Rebecca , with the smallest inflection of sarcasm in her voice , besought her to continue that charming story . 
And on her side gentle thoughts and simple pleasures were odious to Mrs. Becky they discorded with her she hated people for liking them she spurned children and children lovers . 
I have no taste for bread and butter , she would say , when caricaturing Lady Jane and her ways to my Lord Steyne . 
No more has a certain person for holy water , his lordship replied with a bow and a grin and a great jarring laugh afterwards . 
So these two ladies did not see much of each other except upon those occasions when the younger brother's wife , having an object to gain from the other , frequented her . 
Becky complimented him upon that dress and admired him almost as much as his own wife and children , to whom he displayed himself before he set out . 
She said that it was only the thoroughbred gentleman who could wear the Court suit with advantage it was only your men of ancient race whom the culotte courte became . 
When he was gone , Mrs. Becky made a caricature of his figure , which she showed to Lord Steyne when he arrived . 
His lordship carried off the sketch , delighted with the accuracy of the resemblance . 
He had done Sir Pitt Crawley the honour to meet him at Mrs. Becky's house and had been most gracious to the new Baronet and member . 
my lord hoped that as soon as Lady Steyne arrived in London she would have the honour of making the acquaintance of Lady Crawley . 
In the midst of these intrigues and fine parties and wise and brilliant personages Rawdon felt himself more and more isolated every day . 
He was allowed to go to the club more to dine abroad with bachelor friends to come and go when he liked , without any questions being asked . 
The ex Colonel would sit for hours in his brother's house very silent , and thinking and doing as little as possible . 
He was glad to be employed of an errand to go and make inquiries about a horse or a servant , or to carve the roast mutton for the dinner of the children . 
He was beat and cowed into laziness and submission . 
Delilah had imprisoned him and cut his hair off , too . 
The bold and reckless young blood of ten years back was subjugated and was turned into a torpid , submissive , middle aged , stout gentleman . 
And poor Lady Jane was aware that Rebecca had captivated her husband , although she and Mrs. Rawdon my deared and my loved each other every day they met . 
CHAPTER XLVI Struggles and Trials Our friends at Brompton were meanwhile passing their Christmas after their fashion and in a manner by no means too cheerful . 
Sedley still maintained his ascendency over the family of Mr. Clapp , his ex clerk . 
Time magnified the splendour of those recollections in the honest clerk's bosom . 
He thought Miss 'Melia's playing the divinest music ever performed , and her the finest lady . 
He never would sit down before Sedley at the club even , nor would he have that gentleman's character abused by any member of the society . 
Clapp , with the best of characters and handwritings , had been able very soon after his master's disaster to find other employment for himself . 
In fine , all Sedley's wealthy friends had dropped off one by one , and this poor ex dependent still remained faithfully attached to him . 
She had sat up of nights conning lessons and spelling over crabbed grammars and geography books in order to teach them to Georgy . 
She had worked even at the Latin accidence , fondly hoping that she might be capable of instructing him in that language . 
He , for his part , rushed off to the school with the utmost happiness . 
He was longing for the change . 
That childish gladness wounded his mother , who was herself so grieved to part with him . 
Georgy made great progress in the school , which was kept by a friend of his mother's constant admirer , the Rev . 
He brought home numberless prizes and testimonials of ability . 
that it was believed he could lick the Usher , Mr. Ward , himself . 
But Amelia has never forgiven that Smith to this day , though he is now a peaceful apothecary near Leicester Square . 
She used to smile at these marks of time . 
She kept his copy books , his drawings , and compositions , and showed them about in her little circle as if they were miracles of genius . 
From heaven the hero must be smiling down upon that paragon of a boy whom he had left to comfort and console her . 
She thought again and again of the beautiful little boy , her brother's son , whom she had seen . 
Her sister , the banker's lady , occasionally condescended to pay her old home and companion a visit in Russell Square . 
She urged her to make her papa do something for the darlings . 
Dear Rhoda McMull will disengage the whole of the Castletoddy property as soon as poor dear Lord Castletoddy dies , who is quite epileptic and little Macduff McMull will be Viscount Castletoddy . 
Both the Mr. Bludyers of Mincing Lane have settled their fortunes on Fanny Bludyer's little boy . 
Every visit which this leader of ton paid to her family was more unlucky for her . 
Her father paid more money into Stumpy and Rowdy's . 
Her patronage became more and more insufferable . 
The poor widow in the little cottage at Brompton , guarding her treasure there , little knew how eagerly some people coveted it . 
Go and order another like it , or a better if you can get it , said the old gentleman and lapsed again into silence . 
Of late the Misses Dobbin more than once repeated their entreaties to Amelia , to allow George to visit them . 
His aunt had shown her inclination perhaps his grandfather himself , they hinted , might be disposed to be reconciled to him . 
Surely , Amelia could not refuse such advantageous chances for the boy . 
At last , he said , There was an old gentleman , with thick eyebrows , and a broad hat , and large chain and seals . 
He came one day as the coachman was lunging Georgy round the lawn on the gray pony . 
He looked at me very much . 
I said 'My name is Norval' after dinner . 
My aunt began to cry . 
Such was George's report on that night . 
Mr. Osborne formally offered to take the boy and make him heir to the fortune which he had intended that his father should inherit . 
He would make Mrs. George Osborne an allowance , such as to assure her a decent competency . 
If Mrs. George Osborne proposed to marry again , as Mr. O. heard was her intention , he would not withdraw that allowance . 
This message was brought or read to her in a letter one day , when her mother was from home and her father absent as usual in the City . 
She was never seen angry but twice or thrice in her life , and it was in one of these moods that Mr. Osborne's attorney had the fortune to behold her . 
I wish you good morning , sir and she bowed me out of the room like a tragedy Queen , said the lawyer who told the story . 
Her parents never remarked her agitation on that day , and she never told them of the interview . 
They had their own affairs to interest them , affairs which deeply interested this innocent and unconscious lady . 
The old gentleman , her father , was always dabbling in speculation . 
We have seen how the wine company and the coal company had failed him . 
The bills of the little household , which had been settled weekly , first fell into arrear . 
The remittances had not arrived from India , Mr. Sedley told his wife with a disturbed face . 
Emmy's contribution , paid over cheerfully without any questions , kept the little company in half rations however . 
And the first six months passed away pretty easily , old Sedley still keeping up with the notion that his shares must rise and that all would be well . 
At last they told her , or told her such a garbled story as people in difficulties tell . 
At this she passed all her money across the table , without a word , to her mother , and returned to her room to cry her eyes out . 
Hardest of all , she had to break the matter to Georgy , who made a loud outcry . 
Everybody had new clothes at Christmas . 
The others would laugh at him . 
He would have new clothes . 
She had promised them to him . 
The poor widow had only kisses to give him . 
She darned the old suit in tears . 
She cast about among her little ornaments to see if she could sell anything to procure the desired novelties . 
There was her India shawl that Dobbin had sent her . 
She remembered in former days going with her mother to a fine India shop on Ludgate Hill , where the ladies had all sorts of dealings and bargains in these articles . 
Her cheeks flushed and her eyes shone with pleasure as she thought of this resource , and she kissed away George to school in the morning , smiling brightly after him . 
The boy felt that there was good news in her look . 
She was not mistaken as to the value of the Major's gift . 
It was a very fine and beautiful web , and the merchant made a very good bargain when he gave her twenty guineas for her shawl . 
She ran on amazed and flurried with her riches to Darton's shop , in St . 
Paul's Churchyard , and there purchased the Parents' Assistant and the Sandford and Merton Georgy longed for , and got into the coach there with her parcel , and went home exulting . 
And she pleased herself by writing in the fly leaf in her neatest little hand , George Osborne , A Christmas gift from his affectionate mother . 
The books are extant to this day , with the fair delicate superscription . 
The gilt bindings of the seven handsome little volumes caught the old lady's eye . 
What are those ? she said . 
Some books for Georgy , Amelia replied I I promised them to him at Christmas . 
Oh , Amelia ! you break my heart with your books and that boy of yours , whom you are ruining , though part with him you will not . 
Hysteric sobs and cries ended Mrs. Sedley's speech it echoed through every room in the small house , whereof the other female inmates heard every word of the colloquy . 
Oh , Mother , Mother ! cried poor Amelia in reply . 
You told me nothing I I promised him the books . 
I I only sold my shawl this morning . 
And then she went into her room , and sank down in despair and utter misery . 
She saw it all now . 
Her selfishness was sacrificing the boy . 
But for her he might have wealth , station , education , and his father's place , which the elder George had forfeited for her sake . 
She had but to speak the words , and her father was restored to competency and the boy raised to fortune . 
Gaunt House occupies nearly a side of the Square . 
The remaining three sides are composed of mansions that have passed away into dowagerism tall , dark houses , with window frames of stone , or picked out of a lighter red . 
Brass plates have penetrated into the square Doctors , the Diddlesex Bank Western Branch the English and European Reunion , c . 
it has a dreary look nor is my Lord Steyne's palace less dreary . 
For the present Lord Steyne lives at Naples , preferring the view of the Bay and Capri and Vesuvius to the dreary aspect of the wall in Gaunt Square . 
The Prince and Perdita have been in and out of that door , sir , he had often told me Marianne Clarke has entered it with the Duke of . 
It was there that Egalite Orleans roasted partridges on the night when he and the Marquis of Steyne won a hundred thousand from a great personage at ombre . 
Pendragon is the title of the eldest son of the house . 
The sons have been called Arthurs , Uthers , and Caradocs , from immemorial time . 
Their heads have fallen in many a loyal conspiracy . 
A cadet of the house was an officer of the great Duke and distinguished in the famous Saint Bartholomew conspiracy . 
During the whole of Mary's confinement , the house of Camelot conspired in her behalf . 
A recreant of James's time was momentarily perverted from his religion by the arguments of that great theologian , and the fortunes of the family somewhat restored by his timely weakness . 
Lady Mary Caerlyon was brought up at a Parisian convent the Dauphiness Marie Antoinette was her godmother . 
to the hand of the beautiful Lady Mary Caerlyon . 
Morris and Sheridan had written songs about her . 
No wonder that my Lord Steyne , who liked pleasure and cheerfulness , was not often seen after their marriage by the side of this trembling , silent , superstitious , unhappy lady . 
had further information regarding my Lady Steyne , which may or may not be true . 
with the REIGNING FAVOURITE in a word . 
another source of comfort for the former . 
Take it as a rule , this sardonic old Laves would say , the fathers and elder sons of all great families hate each other . 
The Crown Prince is always in opposition to the crown or hankering after it . 
trying on his father's coronet , he gives you a natural description of all heirs apparent . 
Then again , as to the feeling of elder towards younger sons . 
I tell you they are all Turks in their hearts . 
Pooh ! sir , they know the world . 
Between the Marchioness and the natural and tender regard of mother for children , there was that cruel barrier placed of difference of faith . 
The very love which she might feel for her sons only served to render the timid and pious lady more fearful and unhappy . 
The gulf which separated them was fatal and impassable . 
She could not stretch her weak arms across it , or draw her children over to that side away from which her belief told her there was no safety . 
on her ladyship's director , Father Mole , over their wine , and in pitting Oxford against St . 
The Marquis knew every shilling of his son's debts . 
The marriage at first was a happy and prosperous one . 
My Lord George Gaunt could not only read , but write pretty correctly . 
He spoke French with considerable fluency and was one of the finest waltzers in Europe . 
With these talents , and his interest at home , there was little doubt that his lordship would rise to the highest dignities in his profession . 
The lady , his wife , felt that courts were her sphere , and her wealth enabled her to receive splendidly in those continental towns whither her husband's diplomatic duties led him . 
At a grand diplomatic dinner given by his chief , he had started up and declared that a pate de foie gras was poisoned . 
He went to a ball at the hotel of the Bavarian envoy , the Count de Springbock Hohenlaufen , with his head shaved and dressed as a Capuchin friar . 
It was not a masked ball , as some folks wanted to persuade you . 
It was something queer , people whispered . 
It was in the family . 
His wife and family returned to this country and took up their abode at Gaunt House . 
Lord George gave up his post on the European continent , and was gazetted to Brazil . 
But people knew better he never returned from that Brazil expedition never died there never lived there never was there at all . 
He was nowhere he was gone out altogether . 
Brazil , said one gossip to another , with a grin Brazil is St . 
Rio de Janeiro is a cottage surrounded by four walls , and George Gaunt is accredited to a keeper , who has invested him with the order of the Strait Waistcoat . 
These are the kinds of epitaphs which men pass over one another in Vanity Fair . 
Twice or thrice in a week , in the earliest morning , the poor mother went for her sins and saw the poor invalid . 
sometimes she found the brilliant dandy diplomatist of the Congress of Vienna dragging about a child's toy , or nursing the keeper's baby's doll . 
Sometimes he knew her and Father Mole , her director and companion oftener he forgot her , as he had done wife , children , love , ambition , vanity . 
But he remembered his dinner hour , and used to cry if his wine and water was not strong enough . 
It was the mysterious taint of the blood the poor mother had brought it from her own ancient race . 
The pride of the race was struck down as the first born of Pharaoh . 
The dark mark of fate and doom was on the threshold the tall old threshold surmounted by coronets and caned heraldry . 
The absent lord's children meanwhile prattled and grew on quite unconscious that the doom was over them too . 
First they talked of their father and devised plans against his return . 
Then the name of the living dead man was less frequently in their mouth then not mentioned at all . 
This dark presentiment also haunted Lord Steyne . 
He tried to lay the horrid bedside ghost in Red Seas of wine and jollity , and lost sight of it sometimes in the crowd and rout of his pleasures . 
But it always came back to him when alone , and seemed to grow more threatening with years . 
I have taken your son , it said , why not you ? I may shut you up in a prison some day like your son George . 
And then my lord would defy the ghost which threatened him , for he knew of a remedy by which he could baulk his enemy . 
So there was splendour and wealth , but no great happiness perchance , behind the tall caned portals of Gaunt House with its smoky coronets and ciphers . 
The feasts there were of the grandest in London , but there was not overmuch content therewith , except among the guests who sat at my lord's table . 
Had he not been so great a Prince very few possibly would have visited him but in Vanity Fair the sins of very great personages are looked at indulgently . 
before we condemn a person of my lord's undoubted quality . 
Some notorious carpers and squeamish moralists might be sulky with Lord Steyne , but they were glad enough to come when he asked them . 
Lord Steyne is really too bad , Lady Slingstone said , but everybody goes , and of course I shall see that my girls come to no harm . 
Sir Pitt that pattern of decorum , Sir Pitt who had led off at missionary meetings he never for one moment thought of not going too . 
The great rank and station of Lord Steyne put him in a position to command people in our station in life . 
The Lord Lieutenant of a County , my dear , is a respectable man . 
Besides , George Gaunt and I were intimate in early life he was my junior when we were attaches at Pumpernickel together . 
or I the writer hereof would go if we had an invitation . 
From that august interview they come out stamped as honest women . 
The Lord Chamberlain gives them a certificate of virtue . 
I , for my part , look back with love and awe to that Great Character in history . 
THE KING ? There he was . 
How they cheered , and cried , and waved handkerchiefs . 
Ladies wept mothers clasped their children some fainted with emotion . 
Yes , we saw him . 
Fate cannot deprive us of THAT . 
Some few still exist who have beheld Frederick the Great , Doctor Johnson , Marie Antoinette , c . 
be it our reasonable boast to our children , that we saw George the Good , the Magnificent , the Great . 
Sir Pitt , in a glittering uniform , descended and went into Curzon Street , his sword between his legs . 
Then Rawdon followed in his old Guards' uniform , which had grown woefully shabby , and was much too tight . 
He was to have followed the procession and waited upon his sovereign in a cab , but that his good natured sister in law insisted that they should be a family party . 
James's Street , towards the old brick palace where the Star of Brunswick was in waiting to receive his nobles and gentlefolks . 
We are authorized to state that Mrs. Rawdon Crawley's costume de cour on the occasion of her presentation to the Sovereign was of the most elegant and brilliant description . 
Some ladies we may have seen we who wear stars and cordons and attend the St . 
She has the faded look of a St . 
Such charms as those of which we catch glimpses while her ladyship's carriage passes should appear abroad at night alone . 
Our beloved Rebecca had no need , however , of any such a friendly halo to set off her beauty . 
A score of years hence that too , that milliner's wonder , will have passed into the domain of the absurd , along with all previous vanities . 
But we are wandering too much . 
Mrs. Rawdon's dress was pronounced to be charmante on the eventful day of her presentation . 
She did not know how much care , thought , and genius Mrs. Rawdon had bestowed upon that garment . 
Rebecca had as good taste as any milliner in Europe , and such a clever way of doing things as Lady Jane little understood . 
The latter quickly spied out the magnificence of the brocade of Becky's train , and the splendour of the lace on her dress . 
The brocade was an old remnant , Becky said and as for the lace , it was a great bargain . 
She had had it these hundred years . 
And yet , if Lady Jane had known all , I think even her kindly temper would have failed her . 
Briggs saw her take them , asked no questions , told no stories but I believe quite sympathised with her on this matter , and so would many another honest woman . 
Becky blushed a little and looked at him hard for a moment . 
Pitt Crawley blushed a little too , and looked out of window . 
Why , you silly man , she continued , where do you suppose I got them ? all except the little clasp , which a dear friend of mine gave me long ago . 
I hired them , to be sure . 
I hired them at Mr. Polonius's , in Coventry Street . 
They are family jewels , said Sir Pitt , again looking uneasy . 
And in this family conversation the carriage rolled down the street , until its cargo was finally discharged at the gates of the palace where the Sovereign was sitting in state . 
To know nothing , or little , is in the nature of some husbands . 
As he bowed over her he smiled , and quoted the hackneyed and beautiful lines from The Rape of the Lock about Belinda's diamonds , which Jews might kiss and infidels adore . 
But I hope your lordship is orthodox , said the little lady with a toss of her head . 
And many ladies round about whispered and talked , and many gentlemen nodded and whispered , as they saw what marked attention the great nobleman was paying to the little adventuress . 
The dazzled eyes close before that Magnificent Idea . 
This may be said , that in all London there was no more loyal heart than Becky's after this interview . 
The name of her king was always on her lips , and he was proclaimed by her to be the most charming of men . 
She went to Colnaghi's and ordered the finest portrait of him that art had produced , and credit could supply . 
She had him painted in a brooch and wore it indeed she amused and somewhat pestered her acquaintance with her perpetual talk about his urbanity and beauty . 
Who knows ! Perhaps the little woman thought she might play the part of a Maintenon or a Pompadour . 
But the finest sport of all after her presentation was to hear her talk virtuously . 
She had a few female acquaintances , not , it must be owned , of the very highest reputation in Vanity Fair . 
One must , my dear , show one is somebody , she said . 
One mustn't be seen with doubtful people . 
I pity Lady Crackenbury from my heart , and Mrs. Washington White may be a very good natured person . 
YOU may go and dine with them , as you like your rubber . 
But I mustn't , and won't and you will have the goodness to tell Smith to say I am not at home when either of them calls . 
The particulars of Becky's costume were in the newspapers feathers , lappets , superb diamonds , and all the rest . 
Lady Crackenbury read the paragraph in bitterness of spirit and discoursed to her followers about the airs which that woman was giving herself . 
Mrs. Bute Crawley and her young ladies in the country had a copy of the Morning Post from town , and gave a vent to their honest indignation . 
, You might have had superb diamonds forsooth , and have been presented at Court by your cousin , the Lady Jane . 
But you're only a gentlewoman , my poor dear child . 
You have only some of the best blood in England in your veins , and good principles and piety for your portion . 
In this way the worthy Rectoress consoled herself , and her daughters sighed and sat over the Peerage all night . 
A few days after the famous presentation , another great and exceeding honour was vouchsafed to the virtuous Becky . 
You may be sure they occupied a conspicuous place in the china bowl on the drawing room table , where Becky kept the cards of her visitors . 
She found him grinning over the bowl . 
She was discovered , and she blushed a little . 
Thank you , Monseigneur , she said . 
You see your ladies have been here . 
How good of you ! I couldn't come before I was in the kitchen making a pudding . 
I know you were , I saw you through the area railings as I drove up , replied the old gentleman . 
You see everything , she replied . 
A few things , but not that , my pretty lady , he said good naturedly . 
About this who can tell ? I know there is some rouge that won't come off on a pocket handkerchief , and some so good that even tears will not disturb it . 
Well , said the old gentleman , twiddling round his wife's card , you are bent on becoming a fine lady . 
You pester my poor old life out to get you into the world . 
You won't be able to hold your own there , you silly little fool . 
You will get us a place , interposed Becky , as quick as possible . 
You've got no money , and you want to compete with those who have . 
You poor little earthenware pipkin , you want to swim down the stream along with the great cop per kettles . 
Everybody is striving for what is not worth the having ! Gad ! I dined with the King yesterday , and we had neck of mutton and turnips . 
A dinner of herbs is better than a stalled ox very often . 
You will go to Gaunt House . 
You give an old fellow no rest until you get there . 
It's not half so nice as here . 
My wife is as gay as Lady Macbeth , and my daughters as cheerful as Regan and Goneril . 
I daren't sleep in what they call my bedroom . 
The bed is like the baldaquin of St . 
Peter's , and the pictures frighten me . 
I have a little brass bed in a dressing room , and a little hair mattress like an anchorite . 
Ho ! ho ! You'll be asked to dinner next week . 
Briggs looked up from the work table at which she was seated in the farther room and gave a deep sigh as she heard the great Marquis speak so lightly of her sex . 
If you don't turn off that abominable sheep dog , said Lord Steyne , with a savage look over his shoulder at her , I will have her poisoned . 
I can't send her away , Becky said presently , after a pause , and in a very sad voice . 
Her eyes filled with tears as she spoke , and she turned away her head . 
You owe her her wages , I suppose ? said the Peer . 
Worse than that , said Becky , still casting down her eyes I have ruined her . 
Ruined her ? Then why don't you turn her out ? the gentleman asked . 
Men do that , Becky answered bitterly . 
Women are not so bad as you . 
Last year , when we were reduced to our last guinea , she gave us everything . 
She shall never leave me , until we are ruined utterly ourselves , which does not seem far off , or until I can pay her the utmost farthing . 
it , how much is it ? said the Peer with an oath . 
And Becky , reflecting on the largeness of his means , mentioned not only the sum which she had borrowed from Miss Briggs , but one of nearly double the amount . 
This caused the Lord Steyne to break out in another brief and energetic expression of anger , at which Rebecca held down her head the more and cried bitterly . 
I could not help it . 
It was my only chance . 
I dare not tell my husband . 
He would kill me if I told him what I have done . 
I have kept it a secret from everybody but you and you forced it from me . 
Ah , what shall I do , Lord Steyne ? for I am very , very unhappy ! Lord Steyne made no reply except by beating the devil's tattoo and biting his nails . 
At last he clapped his hat on his head and flung out of the room . 
Rebecca did not rise from her attitude of misery until the door slammed upon him and his carriage whirled away . 
Then she rose up with the queerest expression of victorious mischief glittering in her green eyes . 
Jones , Brown , and Robinson , Lombard Street . 
Rawdon heard Becky laughing in the night once or twice . 
It was only her delight at going to Gaunt House and facing the ladies there , she said , which amused her so . 
But the truth was that she was occupied with a great number of other thoughts . 
whipped off in a hackney coach to the City and being landed at Messrs . 
Then she walked to Mr. Raggles , inquired about his children affectionately , and gave him fifty pounds on account . 
Then she went to the livery man from whom she jobbed her carriages and gratified him with a similar sum . 
It appears there had been a difference on the last drawing room day . 
Hence the degradation which the Colonel had almost suffered , of being obliged to enter the presence of his Sovereign in a hack cab . 
Jones and Robinson's cashier had given her . 
his lordship , we say , appeared among the ladies and the children who were assembled over the tea and toast , and a battle royal ensued apropos of Rebecca . 
Blanche writes them , Lady Steyne said in a flutter . 
I will not write to that person , Lady Gaunt said , a tall and stately lady , who looked up for an instant and then down again after she had spoken . 
It was not good to meet Lord Steyne's eyes for those who had offended him . 
Send the children out of the room . 
Go ! said he pulling at the bell rope . 
The urchins , always frightened before him , retired their mother would have followed too . 
Not you , he said . 
I wish you would , and stay there . 
You will find the bailiffs at Bareacres very pleasant company , and I shall be freed from lending money to your relations and from your own damned tragedy airs . 
Who are you to give orders here ? You have no money . 
You were here to have children , and you have not had any . 
Gaunt's tired of you , and George's wife is the only person in the family who doesn't wish you were dead . 
Gaunt would marry again if you were . 
I wish I were , her Ladyship answered with tears and rage in her eyes . 
My Lady Steyne knows that appearances are sometimes against the best of women that lies are often told about the most innocent of them . 
To see his wife and daughter suffering always put his Lordship into a good humour . 
My sweet Blanche , he said , I am a gentleman , and never lay my hand upon a woman , save in the way of kindness . 
I only wish to correct little faults in your character . 
You women are too proud , and sadly lack humility , as Father Mole , I'm sure , would tell my Lady Steyne if he were here . 
You mustn't give yourselves airs you must be meek and humble , my blessings . 
For all Lady Steyne knows , this calumniated , simple , good humoured Mrs. Crawley is quite innocent even more innocent than herself . 
And Mrs. Crawley is not very well born , but she is not worse than Fanny's illustrious ancestor , the first de la Jones . 
The money which I brought into the family , sir , Lady George cried out You purchased a contingent reversion with it , the Marquis said darkly . 
As for Mrs. Crawley's character , I shan't demean myself or that most spotless and perfectly irreproachable lady by even hinting that it requires a defence . 
You will be pleased to receive her with the utmost cordiality , as you will receive all persons whom I present in this house . 
This house ? He broke out with a laugh . 
Who is the master of it ? and what is it ? This Temple of Virtue belongs to me . 
And if I invite all Newgate or all Bedlam here , by they shall be welcome . 
There were families in London who would have sacrificed a year's income to receive such an honour at the hands of those great ladies . 
Severe , spotless , and beautiful , Lady Gaunt held the very highest rank in Vanity Fair . 
The ladies of Gaunt House called Lady Bareacres in to their aid , in order to repulse the common enemy . 
He did not like to dine with Steyne now . 
They had run races of pleasure together in youth when Bareacres was the winner . 
But Steyne had more bottom than he and had lasted him out . 
The Marquis was ten times a greater man now than the young Lord Gaunt of , and Bareacres nowhere in the race old , beaten , bankrupt , and broken down . 
He had borrowed too much money of Steyne to find it pleasant to meet his old comrade often . 
The latter , whenever he wished to be merry , used jeeringly to ask Lady Gaunt why her father had not come to see her . 
He has not been here for four months , Lord Steyne would say . 
I can always tell by my cheque book afterwards , when I get a visit from Bareacres . 
He was the owner of countless flocks . 
I think he must be descended from a sheep , Becky whispered to Lord Steyne . 
Indeed , his Excellency's countenance , long , solemn , and white , with the ornament round his neck , . 
bore some resemblance to that of a venerable bell wether . 
Mr. Jones wrote a full and particular account of the dinner , which appeared duly in the Demagogue . 
He mentioned the names and titles of all the guests , giving biographical sketches of the principal people . 
Such a dinner he calculated could not be dished up under fifteen or eighteen dollars per head . 
He was most indignant that a young and insignificant aristocrat , the Earl of Southdown , should have taken the pas of him in their procession to the dining room . 
The Colonel's countenance on coming into this polite society wore as many blushes as the face of a boy of sixteen assumes when he is confronted with his sister's schoolfellows . 
It has been told before that honest Rawdon had not been much used at any period of his life to ladies' company . 
With the men at the Club or the mess room , he was well enough and could ride , bet , smoke , or play at billiards with the boldest of them . 
James's but which the most squeamish if not the most moral of societies is determined to ignore . 
On her first appearance Lord Steyne stepped forward , taking her hand , and greeting her with great courtesy , and presenting her to Lady Steyne , and their ladyships , her daughters . 
Their ladyships made three stately curtsies , and the elder lady to be sure gave her hand to the newcomer , but it was as cold and lifeless as marble . 
The fact is that Lord Steyne had once purchased a couple of pictures of the late Sharp , and the affectionate orphan could never forget her gratitude for that favour . 
The Lady Bareacres then came under Becky's cognizance to whom the Colonel's lady made also a most respectful obeisance it was returned with severe dignity by the exalted person in question . 
I had the pleasure of making your Ladyship's acquaintance at Brussels , ten years ago , Becky said in the most winning manner . 
I had the good fortune to meet Lady Bareacres at the Duchess of Richmond's ball , the night before the Battle of Waterloo . 
And I recollect your Ladyship , and my Lady Blanche , your daughter , sitting in the carriage in the porte cochere at the Inn , waiting for horses . 
I hope your Ladyship's diamonds are safe . 
Everybody's eyes looked into their neighbour's . 
The famous diamonds had undergone a famous seizure , it appears , about which Becky , of course , knew nothing . 
I think I needn't be afraid of THAT woman , Becky thought . 
Indeed , Lady Bareacres exchanged terrified and angry looks with her daughter and retreated to a table , where she began to look at pictures with great energy . 
Becky had met other Hungarian magnates with the army in France in . 
But it was when the ladies were alone that Becky knew the tug of war would come . 
As they say , the persons who hate Irishmen most are Irishmen so , assuredly , the greatest tyrants over women are women . 
When Becky followed them to the table of drawings , they dropped off one by one to the fire again . 
I will do anything that may give pleasure to my Lord Steyne or to you , said Rebecca , sincerely grateful , and seating herself at the piano , began to sing . 
It is true that the opposition ladies at the other end of the room kept up a loud and ceaseless buzzing and talking , but the Lady Steyne did not hear those rumours . 
She was a child again and had wandered back through a forty years' wilderness to her convent garden . 
The chapel organ had pealed the same tones , the organist , the sister whom she loved best of the community , had taught them to her in those early happy days . 
He saw at a glance what had happened in his absence , and was grateful to his wife for once . 
Now there are angels of two kinds , and both sorts , it is said , are charming in their way . 
Whatever the previous portion of the evening had been , the rest of that night was a great triumph for Becky . 
She sang her very best , and it was so good that every one of the men came and crowded round the piano . 
The women , her enemies , were left quite alone . 
And Mr. Paul Jefferson Jones thought he had made a conquest of Lady Gaunt by going up to her Ladyship and praising her delightful friend's first rate singing . 
Here , too , in this humble tenement , live care , and distrust , and dismay . 
Mrs. Clapp in the kitchen is grumbling in secret to her husband about the rent , and urging the good fellow to rebel against his old friend and patron and his present lodger . 
Mrs. Sedley has ceased to visit her landlady in the lower regions now , and indeed is in a position to patronize Mrs. Clapp no longer . 
Miss Clapp , grown quite a young woman now , is declared by the soured old lady to be an unbearable and impudent little minx . 
Why Amelia can be so fond of her , or have her in her room so much , or walk out with her so constantly , Mrs. Sedley cannot conceive . 
The bitterness of poverty has poisoned the life of the once cheerful and kindly woman . 
Georgy's house is not a very lively one since Uncle Jos's annuity has been withdrawn and the little family are almost upon famine diet . 
Amelia thinks , and thinks , and racks her brain , to find some means of increasing the small pittance upon which the household is starving . 
Can she give lessons in anything ? paint card racks ? do fine work ? She finds that women are working hard , and better than she can , for twopence a day . 
can hardly hide the sneer with which he examines these feeble works of art . 
They try at other shops in the interior of London , with faint sickening hopes . 
Don't want 'em , says one . 
Be off , says another fiercely . 
Three and sixpence has been spent in vain the screens retire to Miss Clapp's bedroom , who persists in thinking them lovely . 
Amelia passes the door wistfully many a time , in hopes that Mr. Brown will have some news to give her , but he never beckons her in . 
When she goes to make little purchases , there is no news for her . 
She starts up of a night and peeps into his room stealthily , to see that he is sleeping and not stolen away . 
She sleeps but little now . 
A constant thought and terror is haunting her . 
She can't , she can't . 
Not now , at least . 
Oh ! it is too hard to think of and to bear . 
A thought comes over her which makes her blush and turn from herself her parents might keep the annuity the curate would marry her and give a home to her and the boy . 
But George's picture and dearest memory are there to rebuke her . 
Shame and love say no to the sacrifice . 
She shrinks from it as from something unholy , and such thoughts never found a resting place in that pure and gentle bosom . 
One truth after another was marshalling itself silently against her and keeping its ground . 
She did not know the truth of the matter . 
Emmy was calculating eagerly the time that would elapse before the letter would arrive and be answered . 
She had written down the date in her pocket book of the day when she dispatched it . 
To her son's guardian , the good Major at Madras , she had not communicated any of her griefs and perplexities . 
She had not written to him since she wrote to congratulate him on his approaching marriage . 
She thought with sickening despondency , that that friend the only one , the one who had felt such a regard for her was fallen away . 
She had written to Joseph an answer must come in three or four months . 
He was always generous , though careless . 
He could not refuse , when he knew how straitened were the circumstances of his parents . 
Then the poor old gentleman revealed the whole truth to her that his son was still paying the annuity , which his own imprudence had flung away . 
He had not dared to tell it sooner . 
He thought Amelia's ghastly and terrified look , when , with a trembling , miserable voice he made the confession , conveyed reproaches to him for his concealment . 
You are always good and kind . 
You did it for the best . 
Still the father did not know what that explanation meant , and the burst of anguish with which the poor girl left him . 
It was that she was conquered . 
The child must go from her to others to forget her . 
It was May , a half holiday . 
The leaves were all coming out , the weather was brilliant the boy came running to her flushed with health , singing , his bundle of school books hanging by a thong . 
Both her arms were round him . 
No , it was impossible . 
They could not be going to part . 
What is the matter , Mother ? said he you look very pale . 
Nothing , my child , she said and stooped down and kissed him . 
Then he read how Samuel's mother made him a little coat and brought it to him from year to year when she came up to offer the yearly sacrifice . 
And then , in her sweet simple way , George's mother made commentaries to the boy upon this affecting story . 
How Hannah , though she loved her son so much , yet gave him up because of her vow . 
when she should see her boy and how good and wise he had grown . 
Her mind being made up , the widow began to take such measures as seemed right to her for advancing the end which she proposed . 
one day Miss Osborne got a letter from Amelia which made her blush very much and look towards her father , sitting glooming in his place at the other end of the table . 
In simple terms , Amelia told her the reasons which had induced her to change her mind respecting her boy . 
Her father had met with fresh misfortunes which had entirely ruined him . 
Her own pittance was so small that it would barely enable her to support her parents and would not suffice to give George the advantages which were his due . 
Great as her sufferings would be at parting with him she would , by God's help , endure them for the boy's sake . 
She knew that those to whom he was going would do all in their power to make him happy . 
She described his disposition , such as she fancied it quick and impatient of control or harshness , easily to be moved by love and kindness . 
What ? Mrs. Pride has come down , has she ? old Osborne said , when with a tremulous eager voice Miss Osborne read him the letter . 
Reg'lar starved out , hey ? Ha , ha ! I knew she would . 
He tried to keep his dignity and to read his paper as usual but he could not follow it . 
He chuckled and swore to himself behind the sheet . 
He flung it to Miss Osborne . 
Get the room over mine his room that was ready , he said . 
Yes , sir , his daughter replied in a tremble . 
It had not been opened for more than ten years . 
Some of his clothes , papers , handkerchiefs , whips and caps , fishing rods and sporting gear , were still there . 
Ah ! since that ink was wet , what days and people had passed away ! The writing book , still on the table , was blotted with his hand . 
Miss Osborne was much affected when she first entered this room with the servants under her . 
She sank quite pale on the little bed . 
This is blessed news , m'am indeed , m'am , the housekeeper said and the good old times is returning , m'am . 
You had better send that woman some money , Mr. Osborne said , before he went out . 
She shan't want for nothing . 
Send her a hundred pound . 
And I'll go and see her to morrow ? Miss Osborne asked . 
She don't come in here , mind . 
No , by , not for all the money in London . 
But she mustn't want now . 
So look out , and get things right . 
With which brief speeches Mr. Osborne took leave of his daughter and went on his accustomed way into the City . 
Here , Papa , is some money , Amelia said that night , kissing the old man , her father , and putting a bill for a hundred pounds into his hands . 
And and , Mamma , don't be harsh with Georgy . 
He he is not going to stop with us long . 
She could say nothing more , and walked away silently to her room . 
Let us close it upon her prayers and her sorrow . 
I think we had best speak little about so much love and grief . 
Miss Osborne came the next day , according to the promise contained in her note , and saw Amelia . 
The meeting between them was friendly . 
She was cold , sensible , not unkind . 
The mother had not been so well pleased , perhaps , had the rival been better looking , younger , more affectionate , warmer hearted . 
Miss Osborne , on the other hand , thought of old times and memories and could not but be touched with the poor mother's pitiful situation . 
She was conquered , and laying down her arms , as it were , she humbly submitted . 
That day they arranged together the preliminaries of the treaty of capitulation . 
George was kept from school the next day , and saw his aunt . 
Amelia left them alone together and went to her room . 
She was trying the separation as that poor gentle Lady Jane Grey felt the edge of the axe that was to come down and sever her slender life . 
Days were passed in parleys , visits , preparations . 
The widow broke the matter to Georgy with great caution she looked to see him very much affected by the intelligence . 
He was rather elated than otherwise , and the poor woman turned sadly away . 
The boy was the image of his father , as his fond mother thought . 
Indeed I have no heart , on account of our dear Amelia's sake , to go through the story of George's last days at home . 
So that he had change , what cared he ? He was longing for it . 
He would come and see his mamma often on the pony , he said . 
He would come and fetch her in the carriage they would drive in the park , and she should have everything she wanted . 
The poor mother was fain to content herself with these selfish demonstrations of attachment , and tried to convince herself how sincerely her son loved her . 
All children were so a little anxious for novelty , and no , not selfish , but self willed . 
Her child must have his enjoyments and ambition in the world . 
She herself , by her own selfishness and imprudent love for him had denied him his just rights and pleasures hitherto . 
I know few things more affecting than that timorous debasement and self humiliation of a woman . 
So poor Amelia had been getting ready in silent misery for her son's departure , and had passed many and many a long solitary hour in making preparations for the end . 
George stood by his mother , watching her arrangements without the least concern . 
The child goes away smiling as the mother breaks her heart . 
By heavens it is pitiful , the bootless love of women for children in Vanity Fair . 
A few days are past , and the great event of Amelia's life is consummated . 
The child is sacrificed and offered up to fate , and the widow is quite alone . 
The boy comes to see her often , to be sure . 
He rides on a pony with a coachman behind him , to the delight of his old grandfather , Sedley , who walks proudly down the lane by his side . 
She sees him , but he is not her boy any more . 
Why , he rides to see the boys at the little school , too , and to show off before them his new wealth and splendour . 
In two days he has adopted a slightly imperious air and patronizing manner . 
He was born to command , his mother thinks , as his father was before him . 
It is fine weather now . 
It is so pleasant and cool . 
She can look up and see the drawing room windows illuminated , and , at about nine o'clock , the chamber in the upper story where Georgy sleeps . 
She knows he has told her . 
She prays there as the light goes out , prays with an humble heart , and walks home shrinking and silent . 
She is very tired when she comes home . 
Perhaps she will sleep the better for that long weary walk , and she may dream about Georgy . 
May God's blessing be on the boy ! Emmy ran round the square and , coming up to the sweep , gave him her mite too . 
All the bells of Sabbath were ringing , and she followed them until she came to the Foundling Church , into which she went . 
There she sat in a place whence she could see the head of the boy under his father's tombstone . 
Many hundred fresh children's voices rose up there and sang hymns to the Father Beneficent , and little George's soul thrilled with delight at the burst of glorious psalmody . 
His mother could not see him for awhile , through the mist that dimmed her eyes . 
Dear brethren , let us tremble before those august portals . 
I fancy them guarded by grooms of the chamber with flaming silver forks with which they prong all those who have not the right of the entree . 
They say the honest newspaper fellow who sits in the hall and takes down the names of the great ones who are admitted to the feasts dies after a little time . 
He can't survive the glare of fashion long . 
Her myth ought to be taken to heart amongst the Tyburnians , the Belgravians her story , and perhaps Becky's too . 
Ah , ladies ! ask the Reverend Mr. Thurifer if Belgravia is not a sounding brass and Tyburnia a tinkling cymbal . 
Even these will pass away . 
Hyde Park Gardens will be no better known than the celebrated horticultural outskirts of Babylon , and Belgrave Square will be as desolate as Baker Street , or Tadmor in the wilderness . 
As we sat soberly drinking claret there with men of to day , the spirits of the departed came in and took their places round the darksome board . 
The pilot who weathered the storm tossed off great bumpers of spiritual port the shade of Dundas did not leave the ghost of a heeltap . 
They let the house as a furnished lodging now . 
Yes , Lady Hester once lived in Baker Street , and lies asleep in the wilderness . 
Eothen saw her there not in Baker Street , but in the other solitude . 
Sit down , gentlemen , and fall to , with a good hearty appetite the fat , the lean , the gravy , the horse radish as you like it don't spare it . 
Another glass of wine , Jones , my boy a little bit of the Sunday side . 
Yes , let us eat our fill of the vain thing and be thankful therefor . 
And let us make the best of Becky's aristocratic pleasures likewise for these too , like all other mortal delights , were but transitory . 
She and her husband were invited immediately to one of the Prince's small parties at Levant House , then occupied by His Highness during the temporary absence from England of its noble proprietor . 
She sang after dinner to a very little comite . 
The Marquis of Steyne was present , paternally superintending the progress of his pupil . 
I declare I swell with pride as these august names are transcribed by my pen , and I think in what brilliant company my dear Becky is moving . 
She became a constant guest at the French Embassy , where no party was considered to be complete without the presence of the charming Madame Ravdonn Cravley . 
, both , I say , declared that they were au mieux with the charming Madame Ravdonn . 
But I doubt the correctness of the assertion . 
I doubt , I say , that Becky would have selected either of these young men as a person on whom she would bestow her special regard . 
They ran of her messages , purchased her gloves and flowers , went in debt for opera boxes for her , and made themselves amiable in a thousand ways . 
Lord Steyne read it , everybody but honest Rawdon , to whom it was not necessary to tell everything that passed in the little house in May Fair . 
, but some of the best English people too . 
takes up a person , he or she is safe . 
There is no question about them any more . 
, to frequent Mrs. Crawley's house , but asked her to her own mansion and spoke to her twice in the most public and condescending manner during dinner . 
The important fact was known all over London that night . 
People who had been crying fie about Mrs. Crawley were silent . 
In a word , she was admitted to be among the best people . 
Ah , my beloved readers and brethren , do not envy poor Becky prematurely glory like this is said to be fugitive . 
We must be brief in descanting upon this part of her career . 
Becky has often spoken in subsequent years of this season of her life , when she moved among the very greatest circles of the London fashion . 
Her success excited , elated , and then bored her . 
They talked in English , not in bad French , as they do in the novels . 
They talked about each others' houses , and characters , and families just as the Joneses do about the Smiths . 
Becky's former acquaintances hated and envied her the poor woman herself was yawning in spirit . 
I wish I were out of it , she said to herself . 
You would do it very well , said Lord Steyne , laughing . 
She used to tell the great man her ennuis and perplexities in her artless way they amused him . 
I should have liked to see it , said Lord Steyne . 
I should like to do it now , Becky continued . 
How Lady Blinkey would open her eyes , and Lady Grizzel Macbeth would stare ! Hush ! silence ! there is Pasta beginning to sing . 
What an artful little minx said a third . 
Yes , she gave parties in the little house in Curzon Street . 
, the Marquess of Steyne , Earl of Southdown , Sir Pitt and Lady Jane Crawley , Mr. Wagg , c . 
Miss Macbeths Viscount Paddington , Sir Horace Fogey , Hon . 
Sands Bedwin , Bobachy Bahawder , and an c . 
, which the reader may fill at his pleasure through a dozen close lines of small type . 
And in her commerce with the great our dear friend showed the same frankness which distinguished her transactions with the lowly in station . 
holding a conversation in the French language with a celebrated tenor singer of that nation , while the Lady Grizzel Macbeth looked over her shoulder scowling at the pair . 
How very well you speak French , Lady Grizzel said , who herself spoke the tongue in an Edinburgh accent most remarkable to hear . 
I ought to know it , Becky modestly said , casting down her eyes . 
I taught it in a school , and my mother was a Frenchwoman . 
Lady Grizzel was won by her humility and was mollified towards the little woman . 
She was a very good woman good to the poor stupid , blameless , unsuspicious . 
It is not her ladyship's fault that she fancies herself better than you and me . 
Lady Steyne , after the music scene , succumbed before Becky , and perhaps was not disinclined to her . 
The younger ladies of the house of Gaunt were also compelled into submission . 
Once or twice they set people at her , but they failed . 
The brilliant Lady Stunnington tried a passage of arms with her , but was routed with great slaughter by the intrepid little Becky . 
When attacked sometimes , Becky had a knack of adopting a demure ingenue air , under which she was most dangerous . 
He looked piteously at my lord , who never spoke to him during dinner , and at the ladies , who disowned him . 
At last Becky herself took compassion upon him and tried to engage him in talk . 
Wagg wept before Fiche and implored his dear friend to intercede for him . 
He wrote a poem in favour of Mrs. R. C. , which appeared in the very next number of the Harum scarum Magazine , which he conducted . 
He implored her good will at parties where he met her . 
He cringed and coaxed Rawdon at the club . 
He was allowed to come back to Gaunt House after a while . 
Becky was always good to him , always amused , never angry . 
, Mr. Wenham , was much more prudent in his behaviour and opinions than Mr. Wagg . 
Lord Southdown , it was said , had been induced to give many hundreds through these pathetic representations . 
, and whom the Crawleys introduced into fashionable life , was also cited as one of Becky's victims in the pecuniary way . 
People declared that she got money from various simply disposed persons , under pretence of getting them confidential appointments under Government . 
Stillbrook and Queen's Crawley supplied her with game and fruit in abundance . 
Lord Steyne's cellars were at her disposal , and that excellent nobleman's famous cooks presided over her little kitchen , or sent by my lord's order the rarest delicacies from their own . 
We should be quarrelling , abusing , avoiding one another . 
Our houses would become caverns , and we should go in rags because we cared for nobody . 
Parties wouldn't be given any more . 
All the tradesmen of the town would be bankrupt . 
If his cook is good we forgive him and go and dine with him , and we expect he will do the same by us . 
Thus trade flourishes civilization advances peace is kept new dresses are wanted for new assemblies every week and the last year's vintage of Lafitte will remunerate the honest proprietor who reared it . 
A portion of that splendid room , the picture gallery of Gaunt House , was arranged as the charade theatre . 
One or two of the old properties were drawn out of the garrets , where they had lain ever since , and furbished up anew for the present festivities . 
Young Bedwin Sands , then an elegant dandy and Eastern traveller , was manager of the revels . 
In his volume there were several pictures of Sands in various oriental costumes and he travelled about with a black attendant of most unprepossessing appearance , just like another Brian de Bois Guilbert . 
Bedwin , his costumes , and black man , were hailed at Gaunt House as very valuable acquisitions . 
He led off the first charade . 
The Turkish dignitary yawns and expresses signs of weariness and idleness . 
He claps his hands and Mesrour the Nubian appears , with bare arms , bangles , yataghans , and every Eastern ornament gaunt , tall , and hideous . 
He makes a salaam before my lord the Aga . 
A thrill of terror and delight runs through the assembly . 
The ladies whisper to one another . 
The black slave was given to Bedwin Sands by an Egyptian pasha in exchange for three dozen of Maraschino . 
He has sewn up ever so many odalisques in sacks and tilted them into the Nile . 
Bid the slave merchant enter , says the Turkish voluptuary with a wave of his hand . 
Mesrour conducts the slave merchant into my lord's presence he brings a veiled female with him . 
A thrill of applause bursts through the house . 
with the beautiful eyes and hair . 
She is in a gorgeous oriental costume the black braided locks are twined with innumerable jewels her dress is covered over with gold piastres . 
The odious Mahometan expresses himself charmed by her beauty . 
She falls down on her knees and entreats him to restore her to the mountains where she was born , and where her Circassian lover is still deploring the absence of his Zuleikah . 
No entreaties will move the obdurate Hassan . 
He laughs at the notion of the Circassian bridegroom . 
Zuleikah covers her face with her hands and drops down in an attitude of the most beautiful despair . 
There seems to be no hope for her , when when the Kislar Aga appears . 
The Kislar Aga brings a letter from the Sultan . 
Hassan receives and places on his head the dread firman . 
Mercy ! mercy ! cries the Pasha while the Kislar Aga , grinning horribly , pulls out a bow string . 
The curtain draws just as he is going to use that awful weapon . 
The second part of the charade takes place . 
It is still an Eastern scene . 
Hassan , in another dress , is in an attitude by Zuleikah , who is perfectly reconciled to him . 
The Kislar Aga has become a peaceful black slave . 
It is sunrise on the desert , and the Turks turn their heads eastwards and bow to the sand . 
As there are no dromedaries at hand , the band facetiously plays The Camels are coming . 
An enormous Egyptian head figures in the scene . 
It is a musical one and , to the surprise of the oriental travellers , sings a comic song , composed by Mr. Wagg . 
The Eastern voyagers go off dancing , like Papageno and the Moorish King in The Magic Flute . 
Last two syllables , roars the head . 
It is a Grecian tent this time . 
A tall and stalwart man reposes on a couch there . 
Above him hang his helmet and shield . 
There is no need for them now . 
Cassandra is a prisoner in his outer halls . 
, the anax andron is asleep in his chamber at Argos . 
A lamp casts the broad shadow of the sleeping warrior flickering on the wall the sword and shield of Troy glitter in its light . 
The band plays the awful music of Don Juan , before the statue enters . 
Aegisthus steals in pale and on tiptoe . 
He cannot strike the noble slumbering chieftain . 
A tremor ran through the room . 
Good God ! somebody said , it's Mrs. Rawdon Crawley . 
Scornfully she snatches the dagger out of Aegisthus's hand and advances to the bed . 
You see it shining over her head in the glimmer of the lamp , and and the lamp goes out , with a groan , and all is dark . 
The darkness and the scene frightened people . 
Brava ! brava ! old Steyne's strident voice was heard roaring over all the rest . 
By , she'd do it too , he said between his teeth . 
Mr. Bedwin Sands led on Zuleikah and Clytemnestra . 
A great personage insisted on being presented to the charming Clytemnestra . 
Heigh ha ? Run him through the body . 
Marry somebody else , hay ? was the apposite remark made by His Royal Highness . 
Mrs. Rawdon Crawley was quite killing in the part , said Lord Steyne . 
Becky laughed , gay and saucy looking , and swept the prettiest little curtsey ever seen . 
Servants brought in salvers covered with numerous cool dainties , and the performers disappeared to get ready for the second charade tableau . 
The three syllables of this charade were to be depicted in pantomime , and the performance took place in the following wise First syllable . 
In the lower window are seen two bagmen playing apparently at the game of cribbage , over which they yawn much . 
with two candlesticks , and a warming pan . 
She ascends to the upper apartment and warms the bed . 
She uses the warming pan as a weapon wherewith she wards off the attention of the bagmen . 
They put on their night caps and pull down the blinds . 
Boots comes out and closes the shutters of the ground floor chamber . 
You hear him bolting and chaining the door within . 
All the lights go out . 
The music plays Dormez , dormez , chers Amours . 
A voice from behind the curtain says , First syllable . 
The lamps are lighted up all of a sudden . 
The music plays the old air from John of Paris , Ah quel plaisir d'etre en voyage . 
It is the same scene . 
Between the first and second floors of the house represented , you behold a sign on which the Steyne arms are painted . 
All the bells are ringing all over the house . 
In the lower apartment you see a man with a long slip of paper presenting it to another , who shakes his fists , threatens and vows that it is monstrous . 
Ostler , bring round my gig , cries another at the door . 
under the chin she seems to deplore his absence , as Calypso did that of that other eminent traveller Ulysses . 
Crack , crack , crack , go the whips . 
Landlord , chambermaid , waiter rush to the door , but just as some distinguished guest is arriving , the curtains close , and the invisible theatrical manager cries out Second syllable . 
I think it must be 'Hotel , says Captain Grigg of the Life Guards there is a general laugh at the Captain's cleverness . 
He is not very far from the mark . 
A ben is heard ringing as the curtain draws aside . 
Now , gents , for the shore ! a voice exclaims . 
People take leave of each other . 
They point anxiously as if towards the clouds , which are represented by a dark curtain , and they nod their heads in fear . 
, her lap dog , her bags , reticules , and husband sit down , and cling hold of some ropes . 
It is evidently a ship . 
, with a cocked hat and a telescope , comes in , holding his hat on his head , and looks out his coat tails fly about as if in the wind . 
When he leaves go of his hat to use his telescope , his hat flies off , with immense applause . 
The music rises and whistles louder and louder the mariners go across the stage staggering , as if the ship was in severe motion . 
passes reeling by , holding six basins . 
The music rises up to the wildest pitch of stormy excitement , and the third syllable is concluded . 
It was dressed in old French costume , and little Lord Southdown now appeared admirably attired in the disguise of an old woman hobbling about the stage with a faultless crooked stick . 
Trills of melody were heard behind the scenes , and gurgling from a sweet pasteboard cottage covered with roses and trellis work . 
Philomele , Philomele , cries the old woman , and Philomele comes out . 
More applause it is Mrs. Rawdon Crawley in powder and patches , the most ravissante little Marquise in the world . 
She comes in laughing , humming , and frisks about the stage with all the innocence of theatrical youth she makes a curtsey . 
Every caress was received with loud acclamations of laughter by the sympathizing audience . 
the whole house was unanimous for an encore and applause and bouquets without end were showered upon the Nightingale of the evening . 
Lord Steyne's voice of applause was loudest of all . 
Becky , the nightingale , took the flowers which he threw to her and pressed them to her heart with the air of a consummate comedian . 
Lord Steyne was frantic with delight . 
His guests' enthusiasm harmonized with his own . 
All voices were for her . 
She had reached her culmination her voice rose trilling and bright over the storm of applause , and soared as high and joyful as her triumph . 
There was a ball after the dramatic entertainments , and everybody pressed round Becky as the great point of attraction of the evening . 
The Royal Personage declared with an oath that she was perfection , and engaged her again and again in conversation . 
Little Becky's soul swelled with pride and delight at these honours she saw fortune , fame , fashion before her . 
Lord Steyne was her slave , followed her everywhere , and scarcely spoke to any one in the room beside , and paid her the most marked compliments and attention . 
He was only consoled when he heard that she was half a Frenchwoman by birth . 
None but a compatriot , his Excellency declared , could have performed that majestic dance in such a way . 
Then she figured in a waltz with Monsieur de Klingenspohr , the Prince of Peterwaradin's cousin and attache . 
Papoosh Pasha himself would have liked to dance with her if that amusement had been the custom of his country . 
The company made a circle round her and applauded as wildly as if she had been a Noblet or a Taglioni . 
Everybody was in ecstacy and Becky too , you may be sure . 
She passed by Lady Stunnington with a look of scorn . 
She patronized Lady Gaunt and her astonished and mortified sister in law she ecrased all rival charmers . 
She might tear her long hair and cry her great eyes out , but there was not a person to heed or to deplore the discomfiture . 
The greatest triumph of all was at supper time . 
She was placed at the grand exclusive table with his Royal Highness the exalted personage before mentioned , and the rest of the great guests . 
She was served on gold plate . 
Jabotiere wrote home about her to his government . 
If sarcasm could have killed , Lady Stunnington would have slain her on the spot . 
Rawdon Crawley was scared at these triumphs . 
They seemed to separate his wife farther than ever from him somehow . 
He thought with a feeling very like pain how immeasurably she was his superior . 
Mrs. Rawdon Crawley's carriage , coming up to the gate after due shouting , rattled into the illuminated court yard and drove up to the covered way . 
Rawdon put his wife into the carriage , which drove off . 
Mr. Wenham had proposed to him to walk home , and offered the Colonel the refreshment of a cigar . 
They lighted their cigars by the lamp of one of the many link boys outside , and Rawdon walked on with his friend Wenham . 
That gallant officer at once knew what had befallen him . 
He was in the hands of the bailiffs . 
He started back , falling against the man who had first touched him . 
We're three on us it's no use bolting , the man behind said . 
It's you , Moss , is it ? said the Colonel , who appeared to know his interlocutor . 
Lend me a hundred , Wenham , for God's sake , poor Rawdon said I've got seventy at home . 
I've not got ten pounds in the world , said poor Mr. Wenham Good night , my dear fellow . 
Good night , said Rawdon ruefully . 
And Wenham walked away and Rawdon Crawley finished his cigar as the cab drove under Temple Bar . 
famously in English , the Latin rudiments , and in general learning but all these objections disappeared before the generous perseverance of the Marquis of Steyne . 
His lordship was one of the governors of that famous old collegiate institution called the Whitefriars . 
It had been a Cistercian Convent in old days , when the Smithfield , which is contiguous to it , was a tournament ground . 
Obstinate heretics used to be brought thither convenient for burning hard by . 
An extern school grew round the old almost monastic foundation , which subsists still with its middle age costume and usages and all Cistercians pray that it may long flourish . 
He did not know how fond he was of the child until it became necessary to let him go away . 
Becky burst out laughing once or twice when the Colonel , in his clumsy , incoherent way , tried to express his sentimental sorrows at the boy's departure . 
The poor fellow felt that his dearest pleasure and closest friend was taken from him . 
He looked often and wistfully at the little vacant bed in his dressing room , where the child used to sleep . 
He missed him sadly of mornings and tried in vain to walk in the park without him . 
He did not know how solitary he was until little Rawdon was gone . 
Young Rawdon's aunt , we have said , was very fond of him , as was her little girl , who wept copiously when the time for her cousin's departure came . 
The elder Rawdon was thankful for the fondness of mother and daughter . 
The very best and honestest feelings of the man came out in these artless outpourings of paternal feeling in which he indulged in their presence , and encouraged by their sympathy . 
He secured not only Lady Jane's kindness , but her sincere regard , by the feelings which he manifested , and which he could not show to his own wife . 
The two kinswomen met as seldom as possible . 
Becky laughed bitterly at Jane's feelings and softness the other's kindly and gentle nature could not but revolt at her sister's callous behaviour . 
It estranged Rawdon from his wife more than he knew or acknowledged to himself . 
She did not care for the estrangement . 
Indeed , she did not miss him or anybody . 
She looked upon him as her errand man and humble slave . 
He might be ever so depressed or sulky , and she did not mark his demeanour , or only treated it with a sneer . 
She was busy thinking about her position , or her pleasures , or her advancement in society she ought to have held a great place in it , that is certain . 
It was honest Briggs who made up the little kit for the boy which he was to take to school . 
Molly , the housemaid , blubbered in the passage when he went away Molly kind and faithful in spite of a long arrear of unpaid wages . 
Mrs. Becky could not let her husband have the carriage to take the boy to school . 
Take the horses into the City ! such a thing was never heard of . 
Let a cab be brought . 
, and consoled her by pointing out that he was to come home on Saturdays , when she would have the benefit of seeing him . 
As the cab rolled towards the City , Becky's carriage rattled off to the park . 
He walked all the way home very dismally , and dined alone with Briggs . 
He was very kind to her and grateful for her love and watchfulness over the boy . 
His conscience smote him that he had borrowed Briggs's money and aided in deceiving her . 
The little chap's good natured honest face won his way for him . 
The Colonel went to see his son a short time afterwards and found the lad sufficiently well and happy , grinning and laughing in his little black gown and little breeches . 
His father sagaciously tipped Blackball , his master , a sovereign , and secured that young gentleman's good will towards his fag . 
When free , Rawdon would take him to the play , or send him thither with the footman and on Sundays he went to church with Briggs and Lady Jane and his cousins . 
Rawdon marvelled over his stories about school , and fights , and fagging . 
Before long , he knew the names of all the masters and the principal boys as well as little Rawdon himself . 
He invited little Rawdon's crony from school , and made both the children sick with pastry , and oysters , and porter after the play . 
He tried to look knowing over the Latin grammar when little Rawdon showed him what part of that work he was in . 
I have your interests to attend to , as you can't attend to them yourself . 
I should like to know where you would have been now , and in what sort of a position in society , if I had not looked after you . 
Indeed , nobody wanted poor old Rawdon at the parties whither Becky used to go . 
She was often asked without him now . 
She talked about great people as if she had the fee simple of May Fair , and when the Court went into mourning , she always wore black . 
It has been narrated in a former chapter how the benevolent nobleman had given his protegee money . 
But he determined to satisfy himself of the real state of the case , and instituted the necessary inquiries in a most cautious and delicate manner . 
In the first place he took an early opportunity of pumping Miss Briggs . 
That was not a difficult operation . 
A very little encouragement would set that worthy woman to talk volubly and pour out all within her . 
He laughed within himself at this artless story . 
My lord asked how much the Colonel had already invested for her , and Miss Briggs at once and truly told him that the sum was six hundred and odd pounds . 
But as soon as she had told her story , the voluble Briggs repented of her frankness and besought my lord not to tell Mr. Crawley of the confessions which she had made . 
The Colonel was so kind Mr. Crawley might be offended and pay back the money , for which she could get no such good interest anywhere else . 
Lord Steyne , laughing , promised he never would divulge their conversation , and when he and Miss Briggs parted he laughed still more . 
What an accomplished little devil it is ! thought he . 
What a splendid actress and manager ! She had almost got a second supply out of me the other day with her coaxing ways . 
She beats all the women I have ever seen in the course of all my well spent life . 
They are babies compared to her . 
I am a greenhorn myself , and a fool in her hands an old fool . 
She is unsurpassable in lies . 
His lordship's admiration for Becky rose immeasurably at this proof of her cleverness . 
Getting the money was nothing but getting double the sum she wanted , and paying nobody it was a magnificent stroke . 
And Crawley , my lord thought Crawley is not such a fool as he looks and seems . 
He has managed the matter cleverly enough on his side . 
My lord had bought so many men during his life that he was surely to be pardoned for supposing that he had found the price of this one . 
Becky was only a little taken aback . 
The previous statement which she had made to him was a falsehood a wicked falsehood she owned it . 
It was my husband , by threats and the most savage treatment , forced me to ask for that sum about which I deceived you . 
It was he who , foreseeing that questions might be asked regarding the disposal of the money , forced me to account for it as I did . 
He told me he had paid Miss Briggs I did not want , I did not dare to doubt him . 
Pardon the wrong which a desperate man is forced to commit , and pity a miserable , miserable woman . 
She burst into tears as she spoke . 
Persecuted virtue never looked more bewitchingly wretched . 
Lord Steyne had acted in the noblest and most generous manner . 
He was always thinking how and when he could do good . 
Now that little Rawdon was gone to school , a dear companion and friend was no longer necessary to her . 
It was a splendid position . 
The family did not go to Gauntly once in two years . 
The place was not to be hers yet , but she might go down on a visit to Mrs. Pilkington and see whether she would like to succeed her . 
What words can paint the ecstatic gratitude of Briggs ! All she stipulated for was that little Rawdon should be allowed to come down and see her at the Hall . 
She ran up to her husband when he came home and told him the joyful news . 
Rawdon was glad , deuced glad the weight was off his conscience about poor Briggs's money . 
She was provided for , at any rate , but but his mind was disquiet . 
He did not seem to be all right , somehow . 
He told little Southdown what Lord Steyne had done , and the young man eyed Crawley with an air which surprised the latter . 
He told Lady Jane of this second proof of Steyne's bounty , and she , too , looked odd and alarmed so did Sir Pitt . 
She is too clever and and gay to be allowed to go from party to party without a companion , both said . 
And so two of Rawdon's out sentinels were in the hands of the enemy . 
Sir Pitt went and expostulated with his sister in law upon the subject of the dismissal of Briggs and other matters of delicate family interest . 
Cajolements , coaxings , smiles , tears could not satisfy Sir Pitt , and he had something very like a quarrel with his once admired Becky . 
As the head of the house he implored her to be more prudent . 
Society was already speaking lightly of her . 
Becky promised anything and everything Pitt wanted but Lord Steyne came to her house as often as ever , and Sir Pitt's anger increased . 
Although he went to the party in question , Sir Pitt quitted it very early , and his wife , too , was very glad to come away . 
Becky hardly so much as spoke to him or noticed her sister in law . 
He left off his clubs and billiards . 
He took Becky out to drive he went laboriously with her to all her parties . 
Whenever my Lord Steyne called , he was sure to find the Colonel . 
Little Becky , to do her justice , was charmed with Rawdon's gallantry . 
If he was surly , she never was . 
Whether friends were present or absent , she had always a kind smile for him and was attentive to his pleasure and comfort . 
It was the early days of their marriage over again the same good humour , prevenances , merriment , and artless confidence and regard . 
He wondered that he had ever had suspicions . 
No , he never had suspicions all those dumb doubts and surly misgivings which had been gathering on his mind were mere idle jealousies . 
She was fond of him she always had been . 
As for her shining in society , it was no fault of hers she was formed to shine there . 
Was there any woman who could talk , or sing , or do anything like her ? If she would but like the boy ! Rawdon thought . 
But the mother and son never could be brought together . 
CHAPTER LIII Friend Rawdon drove on then to Mr. Moss's mansion in Cursitor Street , and was duly inducted into that dismal place of hospitality . 
Morning was breaking over the cheerful house tops of Chancery Lane as the rattling cab woke up the echoes there . 
You'll find your old bed , Colonel , and everything comfortable , that gentleman said , as I may honestly say . 
You may be pretty sure its kep aired , and by the best of company , too . 
I'll ring when I want anything , said Rawdon and went quietly to his bedroom . 
He was an old soldier , we have said , and not to be disturbed by any little shocks of fate . 
A weaker man would have sent off a letter to his wife on the instant of his capture . 
But what is the use of disturbing her night's rest ? thought Rawdon . 
She won't know whether I am in my room or not . 
It will be time enough to write to her when she has had her sleep out , and I have had mine . 
It's only a hundred and seventy , and the deuce is in it if we can't raise that . 
, the Colonel turned into the bed lately occupied by Captain Famish and fell asleep . 
Indeed Mr. Moss's house , though somewhat dirty , was splendid throughout . 
The Colonel's breakfast was served to him in the same dingy and gorgeous plated ware . 
It contained a brilliant account of the festivities and of the beautiful and accomplished Mrs. Rawdon Crawley's admirable personifications . 
, Colonel Crawley called for pens and ink , and paper , and being asked how many sheets , chose one which was brought to him between Miss Moss's own finger and thumb . 
Poor men always use messengers instead of the post . 
I HOPE YOU SLEPT WELL . 
Don't be FRIGHTENED if I don't bring you in your COFFY . 
Last night as I was coming home smoaking , I met with an ACCADENT . 
I was NABBED by Moss of Cursitor Street from whose GILT AND SPLENDID PARLER I write this the same that had me this time two years . 
Miss Moss brought in my tea she is grown very FAT , and , as usual , had her STOCKENS DOWN AT HEAL . 
It's Nathan's business a hundred and fifty with costs , hundred and seventy . 
If he won't stand it . 
Take my ticker and such of your things as you can SPARE , and send them to Balls we must , of coarse , have the sum to night . 
Yours in haste , R. C. P. S. Make haste and come . 
But the day passed away and no messenger returned no Becky . 
No ceramony , Colonel , I beg , said Mrs. Moss with a wave of her hand , and he opened the letter rather tremulously . 
It was a beautiful letter , highly scented , on a pink paper , and with a light green seal . 
, who gave me a composing draught and left orders with Finette that I should be disturbed ON NO ACCOUNT . 
So that my poor old man's messenger , who had bien mauvaise mine Finette says , and sentoit le Genievre , remained in the hall for some hours waiting my bell . 
You may fancy my state when I read your poor dear old ill spelt letter . 
, I drove ventre a terre to Nathan's . 
I saw him I wept I cried I fell at hi odious knees . 
Nothing would mollify the horrid man . 
He would have all the money , he said , or keep my poor monstre in prison . 
, and found Milor there with the Bulgarian old sheep faced monster , who had come to compliment me upon last night's performances . 
When they were gone , I went down on my knees to Milor told him we were going to pawn everything , and begged and prayed him to give me two hundred pounds . 
He pish'd and psha'd in a fury told me not to be such a fool as to pawn and said he would see whether he could lend me the money . 
All his suspicions , which he had been trying to banish , returned upon him . 
She could not even go out and sell her trinkets to free him . 
She could laugh and talk about compliments paid to her , whilst he was in prison . 
Who had put him there ? Wenham had walked with him . 
He could hardly bear to think of what he suspected . 
He was in prison , he wanted a hundred pounds to set him free he entreated them to come to him . 
He went back to the dining room after dispatching his messenger and called for more wine . 
He laughed and talked with a strange boisterousness , as the people thought . 
Sometimes he laughed madly at his own fears and went on drinking for an hour , listening all the while for the carriage which was to bring his fate back . 
At the expiration of that time , wheels were heard whirling up to the gate the young janitor went out with his gate keys . 
It was a lady whom he let in at the bailiff's door . 
Colonel Crawley , she said , trembling very much . 
It is I , Rawdon , she said in a timid voice , which she strove to render cheerful . 
Rawdon was quite overcome by that kind voice and presence . 
He ran up to her caught her in his arms gasped out some inarticulate words of thanks and fairly sobbed on her shoulder . 
She did not know the cause of his emotion . 
Perhaps it was well for Rawdon Crawley that Pitt was away at that dinner . 
Rawdon thanked his sister a hundred times , and with an ardour of gratitude which touched and almost alarmed that soft hearted woman . 
Oh , said he , in his rude , artless way , you you don't know how I'm changed since I've known you , and and little Rawdy . 
I I'd like to change somehow . 
You see I want I want to be He did not finish the sentence , but she could interpret it . 
And that night after he left her , and as she sat by her own little boy's bed , she prayed humbly for that poor way worn sinner . 
Rawdon left her and walked home rapidly . 
It was nine o'clock at night . 
He ran across the streets and the great squares of Vanity Fair , and at length came up breathless opposite his own house . 
He started back and fell against the railings , trembling as he looked up . 
The drawing room windows were blazing with light . 
She had said that she was in bed and ill . 
He stood there for some time , the light from the rooms on his pale face . 
He took out his door key and let himself into the house . 
He could hear laughter in the upper rooms . 
He was in the ball dress in which he had been captured the night before . 
He went silently up the stairs , leaning against the banisters at the stair head . 
Nobody was stirring in the house besides all the servants had been sent away . 
Rawdon heard laughter within laughter and singing . 
Becky was singing a snatch of the song of the night before a hoarse voice shouted Brava ! Brava ! it was Lord Steyne's . 
Rawdon opened the door and went in . 
A little table with a dinner was laid out and wine and plate . 
Steyne was hanging over the sofa on which Becky sat . 
The wretched woman was in a brilliant full toilette , her arms and all her fingers sparkling with bracelets and rings , and the brilliants on her breast which Steyne had given her . 
He had her hand in his , and was bowing over it to kiss it , when Becky started up with a faint scream as she caught sight of Rawdon's white face . 
He , too , attempted a laugh and came forward holding out his hand . 
What , come back ! How d'ye do , Crawley ? he said , the nerves of his mouth twitching as he tried to grin at the intruder . 
There was that in Rawdon's face which caused Becky to fling herself before him . 
I am innocent , Rawdon , she said before God , I am innocent . 
She clung hold of his coat , of his hands her own were all covered with serpents , and rings , and baubles . 
Say I am innocent , she said to Lord Steyne . 
He thought a trap had been laid for him , and was as furious with the wife as with the husband . 
You innocent ! Damn you , he screamed out . 
You innocent ! Why every trinket you have on your body is paid for by me . 
I have given you thousands of pounds , which this fellow has spent and for which he has sold you . 
Innocent , by ! You're as innocent as your mother , the ballet girl , and your husband the bully . 
Don't think to frighten me as you have done others . 
But Rawdon Crawley springing out , seized him by the neckcloth , until Steyne , almost strangled , writhed and bent under his arm . 
You lie , you dog ! said Rawdon . 
You lie , you coward and villain ! And he struck the Peer twice over the face with his open hand and flung him bleeding to the ground . 
It was all done before Rebecca could interpose . 
She stood there trembling before him . 
She admired her husband , strong , brave , and victorious . 
Come here , he said . 
She came up at once . 
Throw them down , he said , and she dropped them . 
He tore the diamond ornament out of her breast and flung it at Lord Steyne . 
It cut him on his bald forehead . 
Steyne wore the scar to his dying day . 
Come upstairs , Rawdon said to his wife . 
Don't kill me , Rawdon , she said . 
I want to see if that man lies about the money as he has about me . 
Has he given you any ? No , said Rebecca , that is Give me your keys , Rawdon answered , and they went out together . 
Rebecca gave him all the keys but one , and she was in hopes that he would not have remarked the absence of that . 
It belonged to the little desk which Amelia had given her in early days , and which she kept in a secret place . 
But Rawdon flung open boxes and wardrobes , throwing the multifarious trumpery of their contents here and there , and at last he found the desk . 
The woman was forced to open it . 
It contained papers , love letters many years old all sorts of small trinkets and woman's memoranda . 
And it contained a pocket book with bank notes . 
Some of these were dated ten years back , too , and one was quite a fresh one a note for a thousand pounds which Lord Steyne had given her . 
Did he give you this ? Rawdon said . 
, and I will pay Briggs , who was kind to the boy , and some of the debts . 
You will let me know where I shall send the rest to you . 
You might have spared me a hundred pounds , Becky , out of all this I have always shared with you . 
I am innocent , said Becky . 
And he left her without another word . 
What were her thoughts when he left her ? She remained for hours after he was gone , the sunshine pouring into the room , and Rebecca sitting alone on the bed's edge . 
The drawers were all opened and their contents scattered about dresses and feathers , scarfs and trinkets , a heap of tumbled vanities lying in a wreck . 
Her hair was falling over her shoulders her gown was torn where Rawdon had wrenched the brilliants out of it . 
She heard him go downstairs a few minutes after he left her , and the door slamming and closing on him . 
She knew he would never come back . 
Would he kill himself ? she thought not until after he had met Lord Steyne . 
She thought of her long past life , and all the dismal incidents of it . 
The woman was her accomplice and in Steyne's pay . 
Mon Dieu , madame , what has happened ? she asked . 
The woman closed the curtains and , with some entreaty and show of kindness , persuaded her mistress to lie down on the bed . 
Then she went below and gathered up the trinkets which had been lying on the floor since Rebecca dropped them there at her husband's orders , and Lord Steyne went away . 
Every morning she and they performed this duty privately , and before the public ceremonial at which Sir Pitt presided and at which all the people of the household were expected to assemble . 
And by the sermon book was the Observer newspaper , damp and neatly folded , and for Sir Pitt's own private use . 
His gentleman alone took the opportunity of perusing the newspaper before he laid it by his master's desk . 
Poor Rawdon took up the paper and began to try and read it until his brother should arrive . 
But the print fell blank upon his eyes , and he did not know in the least what he was reading . 
He started when he saw poor Rawdon in his study in tumbled clothes , with blood shot eyes , and his hair over his face . 
He thought his brother was not sober , and had been out all night on some orgy . 
Don't be frightened , Pitt . 
Shut the door I want to speak to you . 
Pitt , it's all over with me , the Colonel said after a pause . 
I always said it would come to this , the Baronet cried peevishly , and beating a tune with his clean trimmed nails . 
I warned you a thousand times . 
I can't help you any more . 
Every shilling of my money is tied up . 
Even the hundred pounds that Jane took you last night were promised to my lawyer to morrow morning , and the want of it will put me to great inconvenience . 
I don't mean to say that I won't assist you ultimately . 
But as for paying your creditors in full , I might as well hope to pay the National Debt . 
It is madness , sheer madness , to think of such a thing . 
You must come to a compromise . 
It's a painful thing for the family , but everybody does it . 
There was George Kitely , Lord Ragland's son , went through the Court last week , and was what they call whitewashed , I believe . 
Lord Ragland would not pay a shilling for him , and It's not money I want , Rawdon broke in . 
I'm not come to you about myself . 
Never mind what happens to me What is the matter , then ? said Pitt , somewhat relieved . 
It's the boy , said Rawdon in a husky voice . 
I want you to promise me that you will take charge of him when I'm gone . 
That dear good wife of yours has always been good to him and he's fonder of her than he is of his . 
Look here , Pitt you know that I was to have had Miss Crawley's money . 
I wasn't brought up like a younger brother , but was always encouraged to be extravagant and kep idle . 
But for this I might have been quite a different man . 
I didn't do my duty with the regiment so bad . 
You know how I was thrown over about the money , and who got it . 
After the sacrifices I have made , and the manner in which I have stood by you , I think this sort of reproach is useless , Sir Pitt said . 
Your marriage was your own doing , not mine . 
That's over now , said Rawdon . 
And the words were wrenched from him with a groan , which made his brother start . 
Good God ! is she dead ? Sir Pitt said with a voice of genuine alarm and commiseration . 
I wish I was , Rawdon replied . 
If it wasn't for little Rawdon I'd have cut my throat this morning and that damned villain's too . 
Sir Pitt instantly guessed the truth and surmised that Lord Steyne was the person whose life Rawdon wished to take . 
The Colonel told his senior briefly , and in broken accents , the circumstances of the case . 
It was a regular plan between that scoundrel and her , he said . 
And when I got home I found her in diamonds and sitting with that villain alone . 
He then went on to describe hurriedly the personal conflict with Lord Steyne . 
The elder brother was much affected , and shook Rawdon's hand with a cordiality seldom exhibited by him . 
Rawdon passed his hand over his shaggy eyebrows . 
Thank you , brother , said he . 
I know I can trust your word . 
I will , upon my honour , the Baronet said . 
And thus , and almost mutely , this bargain was struck between them . 
Then Rawdon took out of his pocket the little pocket book which he had discovered in Becky's desk , and from which he drew a bundle of the notes which it contained . 
Here's six hundred , he said you didn't know I was so rich . 
And here's some more I've only kept back a few pounds which Becky may as well have , to get on with . 
Pitt stooped and picked them up , amazed at so much wealth . 
Not that , Rawdon said . 
I hope to put a bullet into the man whom that belongs to . 
He had thought to himself , it would be a fine revenge to wrap a ball in the note and kill Steyne with it . 
After this colloquy the brothers once more shook hands and parted . 
Lady Jane had heard of the Colonel's arrival , and was waiting for her husband in the adjoining dining room , with female instinct , auguring evil . 
The door of the dining room happened to be left open , and the lady of course was issuing from it as the two brothers passed out of the study . 
Rawdon muttered some excuses about an engagement , squeezing hard the timid little hand which his sister in law reached out to him . 
Her imploring eyes could read nothing but calamity in his face , but he went away without another word . 
Nor did Sir Pitt vouchsafe her any explanation . 
The children came up to salute him , and he kissed them in his usual frigid manner . 
The man was scared also by the Colonel's dishevelled appearance , and barred the way as if afraid that the other was going to force it . 
James's Street not at home . 
The people joked at the cab stand about his appearance , as he took a carriage there , and told the driver to drive him to Knightsbridge Barracks . 
All the bells were jangling and tolling as he reached that place . 
He might have seen his old acquaintance Amelia on her way from Brompton to Russell Square , had he been looking out . 
His room was hung round with boxing , sporting , and dancing pictures , presented to him by comrades as they retired from the regiment , and married and settled into quiet life . 
And as he was now nearly fifty years of age , twenty four of which he had passed in the corps , he had a singular museum . 
His Royal Highness the late lamented Commander in Chief had had the greatest regard for Macmurdo on this account , and he was the common refuge of gentlemen in trouble . 
What's the row about , Crawley , my boy ? said the old warrior . 
No more gambling business , hay , like that when we shot Captain Marker ? It's about about my wife , Crawley answered , casting down his eyes and turning very red . 
The other gave a whistle . 
Is there no way out of it , old boy ? the Captain continued in a grave tone . 
I told him he was a liar and a coward , and knocked him down and thrashed him . 
Serve him right , Macmurdo said . 
Who is it ? Rawdon answered it was Lord Steyne . 
Hold up , old boy , he said great man or not , we'll put a bullet in him , damn him . 
As for women , they're all so . 
You don't know how fond I was of that one , Rawdon said , half inarticulately . 
Damme , I followed her like a footman . 
I gave up everything I had to her . 
I'm a beggar because I would marry her . 
He then fiercely and incoherently , and with an agitation under which his counsellor had never before seen him labour , told Macmurdo the circumstances of the story . 
His adviser caught at some stray hints in it . 
She may be innocent , after all , he said . 
Steyne has been a hundred times alone with her in the house before . 
It may be so , Rawdon answered sadly , but this don't look very innocent and he showed the Captain the thousand pound note which he had found in Becky's pocket book . 
The Captain could not but own that the secreting of the money had a very ugly look . 
might communicate , and desired that the meeting might take place with as little delay as possible . 
And he was anxious , on the Colonel's behalf , to give up the note to its owner . 
They won't give 'em up , said the man there's a regular shinty in the house , and everything at sixes and sevens . 
The landlord's come in and took possession . 
The servants was a drinkin' up in the drawingroom . 
They said they said you had gone off with the plate , Colonel the man added after a pause One of the servants is off already . 
And Simpson , the man as was very noisy and drunk indeed , says nothing shall go out of the house until his wages is paid up . 
The account of this little revolution in May Fair astonished and gave a little gaiety to an otherwise very triste conversation . 
The two officers laughed at Rawdon's discomfiture . 
I'm glad the little 'un isn't at home , Rawdon said , biting his nails . 
He's a regular trump , that boy , the father went on , still musing about his son . 
And dash it old chap , give him these gold sleeve buttons it's all I've got . 
He covered his face with his black hands , over which the tears rolled and made furrows of white . 
Mr. Macmurdo had also occasion to take off his silk night cap and rub it across his eyes . 
Go down and order some breakfast , he said to his man in a loud cheerful voice . 
What'll you have , Crawley ? Some devilled kidneys and a herring let's say . 
This , as he was about to meet a lord , Captain Macmurdo performed with particular care . 
The game , in her opinion , was over in that little domestic establishment . 
A lady very like her subsequently kept a milliner's shop in the Rue du Helder at Paris , where she lived with great credit and enjoyed the patronage of my Lord Steyne . 
This person always spoke of England as of the most treacherous country in the world , and stated to her young pupils that she had been affreusement vole by natives of that island . 
It was no doubt compassion for her misfortunes which induced the Marquis of Steyne to be so very kind to Madame de Saint Amaranthe . 
May she flourish as she deserves she appears no more in our quarter of Vanity Fair . 
The cook was there with blackened face , seated on the beautiful chintz sofa by the side of Mrs. Raggles , to whom she was administering Maraschino . 
Have a little drop , do'ee now , Mrs. Raggles , the cook was saying as Becky entered , the white cashmere dressing gown flouncing around her . 
Simpson ! Trotter ! the mistress of the house cried in great wrath . 
The liquor appeared to give the odious rebel courage . 
YOUR sofy , indeed ! Mrs. Cook said . 
I'm a settin' on Mrs. Raggles's sofy . 
Don't you stir , Mrs. Raggles , Mum . 
I'm a settin' on Mr. and Mrs. Raggles's sofy , which they bought with honest money , and very dear it cost 'em , too . 
Trotter ! Simpson ! turn that drunken wretch out , screamed Mrs. Crawley . 
I shawn't , said Trotter the footman turn out yourself . 
Pay our selleries , and turn me out too . 
He ain't a coming back , Mr. Trotter resumed . 
He sent for his things , and I wouldn't let 'em go , although Mr. Raggles would and I don't b'lieve he's no more a Colonel than I am . 
He's hoff , and I suppose you're a goin' after him . 
You're no better than swindlers , both on you . 
Don't be a bullyin' ME . 
Pay us our selleries , I say . 
It was evident , from Mr. Trotter's flushed countenance and defective intonation , that he , too , had had recourse to vinous stimulus . 
He was affected by his mistress's deplorable situation , and succeeded in preventing an outrageous denial of the epithet drunken on the footman's part . 
Oh , M'am , said Raggles , I never thought to live to see this year day I've known the Crawley family ever since I was born . 
Har you a goin' to pay me ? You've lived in this 'ouse four year . 
You've 'ad my substance my plate and linning . 
You ho me a milk and butter bill of two 'undred pound , you must 'ave noo laid heggs for your homlets , and cream for your spanil dog . 
She didn't care what her own flesh and blood had , interposed the cook . 
Many's the time , he'd have starved but for me . 
All he said was true . 
Becky and her husband had ruined him . 
He had bills coming due next week and no means to meet them . 
He would be sold up and turned out of his shop and his house , because he had trusted to the Crawley family . 
His tears and lamentations made Becky more peevish than ever . 
You all seem to be against me , she said bitterly . 
What do you want ? I can't pay you on Sunday . 
Come back to morrow and I'll pay you everything . 
I thought Colonel Crawley had settled with you . 
I declare to you upon my honour that he left home this morning with fifteen hundred pounds in his pocket book . 
He has left me nothing . 
Give me a bonnet and shawl and let me go out and find him . 
There was a difference between us this morning . 
You all seem to know it . 
I promise you upon my word that you shall all be paid . 
He has got a good appointment . 
Let me go out and find him . 
'' This audacious statement caused Raggles and the other personages present to look at one another with a wild surprise , and with it Rebecca left them . 
She went upstairs and dressed herself this time without the aid of her French maid . 
She bethought herself of the trinkets which had been left on the ground and felt certain that the woman had fled . 
Good Heavens ! was ever such ill luck as mine ? she said to be so near , and to lose all . 
Is it all too late ? No there was one chance more . 
She dressed herself and went away unmolested this time , but alone . 
, and never stopped until she came to Sir Pitt Crawley's door , in Great Gaunt Street . 
Where was Lady Jane Crawley ? She was at church . 
He turned red and started back from her with a look of great alarm and horror . 
Do not look so , she said . 
I am not guilty , Pitt , dear Pitt you were my friend once . 
Before God , I am not guilty . 
And oh ! at such a moment ! just when all my hopes were about to be realized just when happiness was in store for us . 
Is this true , what I see in the paper then ? Sir Pitt said a paragraph in which had greatly surprised him . 
Lord Steyne told me on Friday night , the night of that fatal ball . 
He has been promised an appointment any time these six months . 
Mr. Martyr , the Colonial Secretary , told him yesterday that it was made out . 
That unlucky arrest ensued that horrible meeting . 
I was only guilty of too much devotedness to Rawdon's service . 
I have received Lord Steyne alone a hundred times before . 
I confess I had money of which Rawdon knew nothing . 
It was to the following effect . 
, and being secure of her own virtue , she had determined to turn the great peer's attachment to the advantage of herself and her family . 
We have talked about it . 
Your genius and Lord Steyne's interest made it more than probable , had not this dreadful calamity come to put an end to all our hopes . 
I saw Lord Steyne's partiality for me , she said , casting down her eyes . 
I own that I did everything in my power to make myself pleasing to him , and as far as an honest woman may , to secure his his esteem . 
It was only on Friday morning that the news arrived of the death of the Governor of Coventry Island , and my Lord instantly secured the appointment for my dear husband . 
It was intended as a surprise for him he was to see it in the papers to day . 
, my Lord was laughing with me , and saying that my dearest Rawdon would be consoled when he read of his appointment in the paper , in that shocking spun bailiff's house . 
And then then he came home . 
I am surprised that woman has the audacity to enter this house , Lady Jane said , trembling in every limb and turning quite pale . 
How dare Mrs. Crawley to enter the house of of an honest family ? Sir Pitt started back , amazed at his wife's display of vigour . 
Becky still kept her kneeling posture and clung to Sir Pitt's hand . 
Tell her that she does not know all Tell her that I am innocent , dear Pitt , she whimpered out . 
Upon my word , my love , I think you do Mrs. Crawley injustice , Sir Pitt said at which speech Rebecca was vastly relieved . 
Indeed I believe her to be To be what ? cried out Lady Jane , her clear voice thrilling and , her heart beating violently as she spoke . 
She never came into a family but she strove to bring misery with her and to weaken the most sacred affections with her wicked flattery and falsehoods . 
She has deceived her husband , as she has deceived everybody her soul is black with vanity , worldliness , and all sorts of crime . 
I tremble when I touch her . 
I keep my children out of her sight . 
She is not worthy to sit down with Christian people . 
As for Becky , she was not hurt nay , she was pleased . 
the Baronet had promised to go and seek out his brother , and endeavour to bring about a reconciliation . 
It was he who had driven the Butcher on to the ground in his drag and passed the whole of the previous night with him . 
Had there not been foul play he must have won it . 
All the old files of the Ring were in it and Tandyman wouldn't pay no , dammy , he wouldn't pay . 
So they went on talking about dancers , fights , drinking , demireps , until Macmurdo came down and joined the boys and the conversation . 
Old Mac was famous for his good stories . 
He was not exactly a lady's man that is , men asked him to dine rather at the houses of their mistresses than of their mothers . 
By the time Mac had finished a copious breakfast , most of the others had concluded their meal . 
against Captain Deuceace and Mac and Rawdon walked off to the Club , neither , of course , having given any hint of the business which was occupying their minds . 
James's Street and entered into their Club . 
Sunday paper at the table , and looking up at Crawley with some interest , said , Crawley , I congratulate you . 
What do you mean ? said the Colonel . 
It's in the Observer and the Royalist too , said Mr. Smith . 
What ? Rawdon cried , turning very red . 
He thought that the affair with Lord Steyne was already in the public prints . 
Smith looked up wondering and smiling at the agitation which the Colonel exhibited as he took up the paper and , trembling , began to read . 
had been talking about the Colonel just before he came in . 
It is come just in the nick of time , said Smith . 
I suppose Crawley had not a shilling in the world . 
It's a wind that blows everybody good , Mr. Brown said . 
He can't go away without paying me a pony he owes me . 
What's the salary ? asked Smith . 
Two or three thousand , answered the other . 
But the climate's so infernal , they don't enjoy it long . 
Liverseege died after eighteen months of it , and the man before went off in six weeks , I hear . 
Some people say his brother is a very clever man . 
I always found him a d bore , Smith ejaculated . 
He must have good interest , though . 
He must have got the Colonel the place . 
It was Lord Steyne got it . 
How do you mean ? A virtuous woman is a crown to her husband , answered the other enigmatically , and went to read his papers . 
Rawdon , for his part , read in the Royalist the following astonishing paragraph GOVERNORSHIP OF COVENTRY ISLAND . 
H. M. S. Yellowjack , Commander Jaunders , has brought letters and papers from Coventry Island . 
H. E. Sir Thomas Liverseege had fallen a victim to the prevailing fever at Swampton . 
His loss is deeply felt in the flourishing colony . 
We hear that the Governorship has been offered to Colonel Rawdon Crawley , C. B. , a distinguished Waterloo officer . 
The Colonel and his aide de camp went out to meet the gentleman , rightly conjecturing that he was an emissary of Lord Steyne . 
How d'ye do , Crawley ? I am glad to see you , said Mr. Wenham with a bland smile , and grasping Crawley's hand with great cordiality . 
You come , I suppose , from Exactly , said Mr. Wenham . 
Then this is my friend Captain Macmurdo , of the Life Guards Green . 
Delighted to know Captain Macmurdo , I'm sure , Mr. Wenham said and tendered another smile and shake of the hand to the second , as he had done to the principal . 
Mac put out one finger , armed with a buckskin glove , and made a very frigid bow to Mr. Wenham over his tight cravat . 
He was , perhaps , discontented at being put in communication with a pekin , and thought that Lord Steyne should have sent him a Colonel at the very least . 
As Macmurdo acts for me , and knows what I mean , Crawley said , I had better retire and leave you together . 
Of course , said Macmurdo . 
In fact , Captain , I hope that our conversation will lead to none but the most agreeable results , very different from those which my friend Colonel Crawley appears to anticipate . 
Humph ! said Captain Macmurdo . 
Be hanged to these civilians , he thought to himself , they are always for arranging and speechifying . 
Three thousand a year , delightful climate , excellent government house , all your own way in the Colony , and a certain promotion . 
I congratulate you with all my heart . 
I presume you know , gentlemen , to whom my friend is indebted for this piece of patronage ? Hanged if I know , the Captain said his principal turned very red . 
To one of the most generous and kindest men in the world , as he is one of the greatest to my excellent friend , the Marquis of Steyne . 
I'll see him d before I take his place , growled out Rawdon . 
Why ? Dammy ! said the Captain , ringing his stick on the ground . 
You come home from a journey , and find what ? my Lord Steyne supping at your house in Curzon Street with Mrs. Crawley . 
You don't mean to say that that Crawley's mistaken ? said Mr. Macmurdo . 
I believe that Mrs. Crawley is as innocent as my wife , Mrs. Wenham , Mr. Wenham said with great energy . 
I say to your face it was a cruel advantage you took of that strength , Colonel Crawley . 
It was not only the body of my noble and excellent friend which was wounded his heart , sir , was bleeding . 
A man whom he had loaded with benefits and regarded with affection had subjected him to the foulest indignity . 
You know he has given his proofs , I presume , Colonel Crawley ? He has plenty of pluck , said the Colonel . 
Nobody ever said he hadn't . 
His first order to me was to write a letter of challenge , and to carry it to Colonel Crawley . 
One or other of us , he said , must not survive the outrage of last night . 
You're coming to the point , Wenham , he said . 
I tried my utmost to calm Lord Steyne . 
Here's the note of invitation stop no , this is another paper I thought I had h , but it's of no consequence , and I pledge you my word to the fact . 
Mr. Macmurdo looked at his principal with the air of a man profoundly puzzled , and Rawdon felt with a kind of rage that his prey was escaping him . 
I pointed out to him that the circumstances were after all suspicious they were suspicious . 
In fine , I implored him not to send the challenge . 
I don't believe one word of the whole story , said Rawdon , grinding his teeth . 
I believe it a d lie , and that you're in it , Mr. Wenham . 
If the challenge don't come from him , by Jove it shall come from me . 
Mr. Wenham turned deadly pale at this savage interruption of the Colonel and looked towards the door . 
But he found a champion in Captain Macmurdo . 
That gentleman rose up with an oath and rebuked Rawdon for his language . 
You put the affair into my hands , and you shall act as I think fit , by Jove , and not as you do . 
You have no right to insult Mr. Wenham with this sort of language and dammy , Mr. Wenham , you deserve an apology . 
And as for a challenge to Lord Steyne , you may get somebody else to carry it , I won't . 
If my lord , after being thrashed , chooses to sit still , dammy let him . 
Captain Macmurdo , you speak like a man of sense , Mr. Wenham cried out , immensely relieved I forget any words that Colonel Crawley has used in the irritation of the moment . 
I thought you would , Rawdon said with a sneer . 
Shut your mouth , you old stoopid , the Captain said good naturedly . 
Mr. Wenham ain't a fighting man and quite right , too . 
This matter , in my belief , the Steyne emissary cried , ought to be buried in the most profound oblivion . 
A word concerning it should never pass these doors . 
I speak in the interest of my friend , as well as of Colonel Crawley , who persists in considering me his enemy . 
I suppose Lord Steyne won't talk about it very much , said Captain Macmurdo and I don't see why our side should . 
The affair ain't a very pretty one , any way you take it , and the less said about it the better . 
It's you are thrashed , and not us and if you are satisfied , why , I think , we should be . 
Mr. Wenham took his hat , upon this , and Captain Macmurdo following him to the door , shut it upon himself and Lord Steyne's agent , leaving Rawdon chafing within . 
When the two were on the other side , Macmurdo looked hard at the other ambassador and with an expression of anything but respect on his round jolly face . 
You don't stick at a trifle , Mr. Wenham , he said . 
You flatter me , Captain Macmurdo , answered the other with a smile . 
Upon my honour and conscience now , Mrs. Crawley did ask us to sup after the opera . 
Of course and Mrs. Wenham had one of her head aches . 
My man shan't fight him . 
But we had rather not take his money . 
And after this preface , he tried with all his eloquence to effect a reconciliation between Rawdon and his wife . 
He recapitulated the statements which Becky had made , pointed out the probabilities of their truth , and asserted his own firm belief in her innocence . 
But Rawdon would not hear of it . 
She has kep money concealed from me these ten years , he said She swore , last night only , she had none from Steyne . 
She knew it was all up , directly I found it . 
If she's not guilty , Pitt , she's as bad as guilty , and I'll never see her again never . 
His head sank down on his chest as he spoke the words , and he looked quite broken and sad . 
Poor old boy , Macmurdo said , shaking his head . 
When the Marquis of Steyne came abroad after his accident , the Colonial Secretary bowed up to him and congratulated himself and the Service upon having made so excellent an appointment . 
These congratulations were received with a degree of gratitude which may be imagined on the part of Lord Steyne . 
The secret of the rencontre between him and Colonel Crawley was buried in the profoundest oblivion , as Wenham said that is , by the seconds and the principals . 
But before that evening was over it was talked of at fifty dinner tables in Vanity Fair . 
Little Cackleby himself went to seven evening parties and told the story with comments and emendations at each place . 
Little Southdown was sorry so you may be sure was his sister Lady Jane , very sorry . 
Lady Southdown wrote it off to her other daughter at the Cape of Good Hope . 
It was town talk for at least three days , and was only kept out of the newspapers by the exertions of Mr. Wagg , acting upon a hint from Mr. Wenham . 
Rawdon made her a tolerable annuity , and we may be sure that she was a woman who could make a little money go a great way , as the saying is . 
He remitted , however , to his brother punctually , and wrote to his little boy regularly every mail . 
He kept Macmurdo in cigars and sent over quantities of shells , cayenne pepper , hot pickles , guava jelly , and colonial produce to Lady Jane . 
Little Rawdon used to like to get the papers and read about his Excellency . 
His mother never made any movement to see the child . 
The good looks , gallant bearing , and gentlemanlike appearance of the boy won the grandsire's heart for him . 
Mr. Osborne was as proud of him as ever he had been of the elder George . 
The child had many more luxuries and indulgences than had been awarded his father . 
Osborne's commerce had prospered greatly of late years . 
His wealth and importance in the City had very much increased . 
He would make a gentleman of the little chap , was Mr. Osborne's constant saying regarding little Georgy . 
He saw him in his mind's eye , a collegian , a Parliament man , a Baronet , perhaps . 
The old man thought he would die contented if he could see his grandson in a fair way to such honours . 
He would have none but a tip top college man to educate him none of your quacks and pretenders no , no . 
He made a hundred blunders and showed his ignorance many a time . 
It did not increase the respect which the child had for his senior . 
If he had been a Prince Royal he could not have been better brought up to think well of himself . 
Little boys who cry when they are going to school cry because they are going to a very uncomfortable place . 
It is only a few who weep from sheer affection . 
Well , then , Master George Osborne had every comfort and luxury that a wealthy and lavish old grandfather thought fit to provide . 
Though he was scarcely eleven years of age , Master George wore straps and the most beautiful little boots like a man . 
He had gilt spurs , and a gold headed whip , and a fine pin in his handkerchief , and the neatest little kid gloves which Lamb's Conduit Street could furnish . 
He had little jewelled buttons in the lawn shirt fronts . 
Her humble presents had been put aside I believe Miss Osborne had given them to the coachman's boy . 
Amelia tried to think she was pleased at the change . 
Indeed , she was happy and charmed to see the boy looking so beautiful . 
She had had a little black profile of him done for a shilling , and this was hung up by the side of another portrait over her bed . 
I bought it with my own money , Mamma , he said . 
I thought you'd like it . 
Amelia opened the case , and giving a little cry of delighted affection , seized the boy and embraced him a hundred times . 
But what was the grandfather's pleasure compared to Amelia's ecstacy ? That proof of the boy's affection charmed her so that she thought no child in the world was like hers for goodness . 
For long weeks after , the thought of his love made her happy . 
Since her parting with George she had had no such joy and consolation . 
The antics of the lad did not , however , delight Mr. Osborne's friends so much as they pleased the old gentleman . 
It gave Mr. Justice Coffin no pleasure to hear Georgy cut into the conversation and spoil his stories . 
Colonel Fogey was not interested in seeing the little boy half tipsy . 
English youth have been so educated time out of mind , and we have hundreds of thousands of apologists and admirers of injustice , misery , and brutality , as perpetrated among children . 
, George tried to whop the little baker . 
This young Todd , of Coram Street , Russell Square , was Master George's great friend and admirer . 
We may be pretty certain that Mr. Rowson profited in his turn by his young master's liberality and gratitude for the pleasures to which the footman inducted him . 
was summoned to ornament little George's person , and was told to spare no expense in so doing . 
Georgy , after breakfast , would sit in the arm chair in the dining room and read the Morning Post , just like a grown up man . 
How he DU dam and swear , the servants would cry , delighted at his precocity . 
Those who remembered the Captain his father , declared Master George was his Pa , every inch of him . 
He made the house lively by his activity , his imperiousness , his scolding , and his good nature . 
The wealth of his grandfather was reported in the school to be prodigious . 
, a chemical apparatus , and what he called a select library of all the works of the best authors of ancient and modern times and languages . 
Then those friends who had the honour of partaking of Mr. Osborne's hospitality , gentlemen , had no reason , I will lay any wager , to complain of their repast . 
I myself have been more than once so favoured . 
I myself , I say , gentlemen , humble as I am , have been found not unworthy to share Mr. Osborne's elegant hospitality . 
Mr. Bluck , sir , we will resume , if you please , that passage of Eutropis , which was interrupted by the late arrival of Master Osborne . 
To this great man George's education was for some time entrusted . 
Amelia was bewildered by his phrases , but thought him a prodigy of learning . 
That poor widow made friends of Mrs. Veal , for reasons of her own . 
She liked to be in the house and see Georgy coming to school there . 
, and where the professor welcomed his pupils and their friends to weak tea and scientific conversation . 
Poor little Amelia never missed one of these entertainments and thought them delicious so long as she might have Georgy sitting by her . 
The names of a score or more of desirable branches of knowledge were printed in a table , and the pupil's progress in each was marked by the professor . 
In Greek Georgy was pronounced aristos , in Latin optimus , in French tres bien , and so forth and everybody had prizes for everything at the end of the year . 
The family of this Master Todd were hangers on of the house of Osborne . 
The old gentleman had advanced Todd from being a clerk to be a junior partner in his establishment . 
If any guest failed at the eleventh hour , Todd was asked to dine . 
It must be owned that he accommodated himself very willingly to this arrangement . 
And Georgy liked to play the part of master and perhaps had a natural aptitude for it . 
In Russell Square everybody was afraid of Mr. Osborne , and Mr. Osborne was afraid of Georgy . 
awed the old gentleman and gave the young boy the mastery . 
The old man would start at some hereditary feature or tone unconsciously used by the little lad , and fancy that George's father was again before him . 
He tried by indulgence to the grandson to make up for harshness to the elder George . 
People were surprised at his gentleness to the boy . 
He growled and swore at Miss Osborne as usual , and would smile when George came down late for breakfast . 
Miss Osborne , George's aunt , was a faded old spinster , broken down by more than forty years of dulness and coarse usage . 
It was easy for a lad of spirit to master her . 
, Georgy took possession of the object of his desire , which obtained , he took no further notice of his aunt . 
For his friends and cronies , he had a pompous old schoolmaster , who flattered him , and a toady , his senior , whom he could thrash . 
It was dear Mrs. Todd's delight to leave him with her youngest daughter , Rosa Jemima , a darling child of eight years old . 
who knows what might happen ? Don't they make a pretty little couple ? the fond mother thought . 
The broken spirited , old , maternal grandfather was likewise subject to the little tyrant . 
He could not help respecting a lad who had such fine clothes and rode with a groom behind him . 
Georgy , on his side , was in the constant habit of hearing coarse abuse and vulgar satire levelled at John Sedley by his pitiless old enemy , Mr. Osborne . 
Osborne used to call the other the old pauper , the old coal man , the old bankrupt , and by many other such names of brutal contumely . 
How was little George to respect a man so prostrate ? A few months after he was with his paternal grandfather , Mrs. Sedley died . 
There had been little love between her and the child . 
He did not care to show much grief . 
The illness of that old lady had been the occupation and perhaps the safeguard of Amelia . 
What do men know about women's martyrdoms ? We should go mad had we to endure the hundredth part of those daily pains which are meekly borne by many women . 
Tender slaves that they are , they must needs be hypocrites and weak . 
From her chair Amelia's mother had taken to her bed , which she had never left , and from which Mrs. Osborne herself was never absent except when she ran to see George . 
Her illness or estrangement did not affect Amelia . 
They rather enabled her to support the other calamity under which she was suffering , and from the thoughts of which she was kept by the ceaseless calls of the invalid . 
His wife , his honour , his fortune , everything he loved best had fallen away from him . 
There was only Amelia to stand by and support with her gentle arms the tottering , heart broken old man . 
We are not going to write the history it would be too dreary and stupid . 
I can see Vanity Fair yawning over it d'avance . 
One day as the young gentlemen were assembled in the study at the Rev . 
The young Masters Bangles rushed to the window with a vague notion that their father might have arrived from Bombay . 
It's a fat one and a thin one , Mr. Bluck said as a thundering knock came to the door . 
Georgy went into the reception room and saw two strangers , whom he looked at with his head up , in his usual haughty manner . 
One was fat , with mustachios , and the other was lean and long , in a blue frock coat , with a brown face and a grizzled head . 
My God , how like he is ! said the long gentleman with a start . 
Can you guess who we are , George ? The boy's face flushed up , as it did usually when he was moved , and his eyes brightened . 
I don't know the other , he said , but I should think you must be Major Dobbin . 
Indeed it was our old friend . 
His voice trembled with pleasure as he greeted the boy , and taking both the other's hands in his own , drew the lad to him . 
Your mother has talked to you about me has she ? he said . 
That she has , Georgy answered , hundreds and hundreds of times . 
The successful man of the world cursed the old pauper and relieved him from time to time . 
George carried the pompous supplies to his mother and the shattered old widower whom it was now the main business of her life to tend and comfort . 
The little fellow patronized the feeble and disappointed old man . 
It may have shown a want of proper pride in Amelia that she chose to accept these money benefits at the hands of her father's enemy . 
But proper pride and this poor lady had never had much acquaintance together . 
it was , I say , her nature to sacrifice herself and to fling all that she had at the feet of the beloved object . 
The kindness was too much for the poor epileptic creature . 
He cried in an anguish of delight and gratitude if anybody gave you and me a thousand a year , or saved our lives , we could not be so affected . 
Some such boons as these were the best which Fortune allotted to poor little Amelia . 
Her life , begun not unprosperously , had come down to this to a mean prison and a long , ignoble bondage . 
Little George visited her captivity sometimes and consoled it with feeble gleams of encouragement . 
Oh , be humble , my brother , in your prosperity ! Be gentle with those who are less lucky , if not more deserving . 
They buried Amelia's mother in the churchyard at Brompton , upon just such a rainy , dark day as Amelia recollected when first she had been there to marry George . 
Her little boy sat by her side in pompous new sables . 
She remembered the old pew woman and clerk . 
Her thoughts were away in other times as the parson read . 
But that she held George's hand in her own , perhaps she would have liked to change places with . 
Then , as usual , she felt ashamed of her selfish thoughts and prayed inwardly to be strengthened to do her duty . 
So she determined with all her might and strength to try and make her old father happy . 
She strove to think it was right that she should be so punished . 
She was such a miserable wicked sinner . 
She was quite alone in the world . 
Old Sedley grew very fond of his daughter after his wife's death , and Amelia had her consolation in doing her duty by the old man . 
But we are not going to leave these two people long in such a low and ungenteel station of life . 
Better days , as far as worldly prosperity went , were in store for both . 
Perhaps the ingenious reader has guessed who was the stout gentleman who called upon Georgy at his school in company with our old friend Major Dobbin . 
It was another old acquaintance returned to England , and at a time when his presence was likely to be of great comfort to his relatives there . 
George's , where the troops should fire a salvo over his grave , and where many a gallant officer lies far away from his home . 
Here , as the poor fellow lay tossing in his fever , the people who watched him might have heard him raving about Amelia . 
The idea that he should never see her again depressed him in his lucid hours . 
The friend in whose house he was located witnessed his testament . 
He recovered , rallied , relapsed again , having undergone such a process of blood letting and calomel as showed the strength of his original constitution . 
before they reached the Cape . 
Kirk will be disappointed of his majority this time , he said with a smile he will expect to find himself gazetted by the time the regiment reaches home . 
Perhaps he was not inclined to put himself in his exhausted state again under the guardianship of Glorvina . 
For indeed it was no other than our stout friend who was also a passenger on board the Ramchunder . 
He had passed ten years in Bengal . 
He was rather thinner than when we last saw him , but had gained in majesty and solemnity of demeanour . 
He took breakfast in his cabin and dressed as solemnly to appear on the quarter deck as if he were going to turn out for Bond Street , or the Course at Calcutta . 
He brought a native servant with him , who was his valet and pipe bearer and who wore the Sedley crest in silver on his turban . 
That oriental menial had a wretched life under the tyranny of Jos Sedley . 
Jos was as vain of his person as a woman , and took as long a time at his toilette as any fading beauty . 
In these conversations it was wonderful with what perseverance and ingenuity Major Dobbin would manage to bring the talk round to the subject of Amelia and her little boy . 
Jos , a little testy about his father's misfortunes and unceremonious applications to him , was soothed down by the Major , who pointed out the elder's ill fortunes and old age . 
In a word , this artful Major made the civilian promise to take charge of Amelia and her unprotected child . 
He did not know as yet what events had happened in the little Sedley family , and how death had removed the mother , and riches had carried off George from Amelia . 
But the fact is that every day and always , this love smitten and middle aged gentleman was thinking about Mrs. Osborne , and his whole heart was bent upon doing her good . 
What were the dates of Sedley's letters from Europe ? The civilian fetched them . 
And thus it was that deserving officer , Captain Kirk , was disappointed of his majority . 
Helena , Major Dobbin's gaiety and strength was such as to astonish all his fellow passengers . 
He did not recover until the breeze sprang up again , and was in a highly excited state when the pilot came on board . 
Good God , how his heart beat as the two friendly spires of Southampton came in sight . 
Jos , however , would not hear of moving that evening . 
So the Major was forced to wait over that night , and dispatched a letter to his family announcing his arrival , entreating from Jos a promise to write to his own friends . 
Jos promised , but didn't keep his promise . 
The landlord said it did his eyes good to see Mr. Sedley take off his first pint of porter . 
If I had time and dared to enter into digressions , I would write a chapter about that first pint of porter drunk upon English ground . 
Ah , how good it is ! It is worth while to leave home for a year , just to enjoy that one draught . 
Major Dobbin made his appearance the next morning very neatly shaved and dressed , according to his wont . 
Then the sleepless Boots went shirking round from door to door , gathering up at each the Bluchers , Wellingtons , Oxonians , which stood outside . 
He and Dobbin stumbled over their pails in the passages as they were scouring the decks of the Royal George . 
He then directed his steps to Mr. Sedley's room and opened the curtains of the great large family bed wherein Mr. Jos was snoring . 
Come , up ! Sedley , the Major said , it's time to be off the chaise will be at the door in half an hour . 
The chaise came up presently , and the Major would wait no longer . 
, he could not have travelled more quickly . 
The post boys wondered at the fees he flung amongst them . 
Is there any in the world like it ? To a traveller returning home it looks so kind it seems to shake hands with you as you pass through it . 
Well , Major Dobbin passed through all this from Southampton to London , and without noting much beyond the milestones along the road . 
You see he was so eager to see his parents at Camberwell . 
He grudged the time lost between Piccadilly and his old haunt at the Slaughters' , whither he drove faithfully . 
Long years had passed since he saw it last , since he and George , as young men , had enjoyed many a feast , and held many a revel there . 
He had now passed into the stage of old fellow hood . 
His hair was grizzled , and many a passion and feeling of his youth had grown grey in that interval . 
Put the Major's things in twenty three , that's his room , John said , exhibiting not the least surprise . 
Roast fowl for your dinner , I suppose . 
You ain't got married ? They said you was married the Scotch surgeon of yours was here . 
No , it was Captain Humby of the thirty third , as was quartered with the th in Injee . 
Ten years and a fever don't make a man young , John , he said . 
It is you that are always young no , you are always old . 
What became of Captain Osborne's widow ? John said . 
Lord , how he used to spend his money . 
He never came back after that day he was marched from here . 
He owes me three pound at this minute . 
Look here , I have it in my book . 
'April , , Captain Osborne pounds . 
I'm glad old John didn't forget me , he thought . 
She'll know me , too , I hope . 
And he sallied out of the inn , bending his steps once more in the direction of Brompton . 
Every minute incident of his last meeting with Amelia was present to the constant man's mind as he walked towards her house . 
The arch and the Achilles statue were up since he had last been in Piccadilly a hundred changes had occurred which his eye and mind vaguely noted . 
He began to tremble as he walked up the lane from Brompton , that well remembered lane leading to the street where she lived . 
When he came up to the row of houses , at last , where she lived , and to the gate , he caught hold of it and paused . 
He might have heard the thumping of his own heart . 
May God Almighty bless her , whatever has happened , he thought to himself . 
Psha ! she may be gone from here , he said and went in through the gate . 
The window of the parlour which she used to occupy was open , and there were no inmates in the room . 
The Major thought he recognized the piano , though , with the picture over it , as it used to be in former days , and his perturbations were renewed . 
Mr. Clapp's brass plate was still on the door , at the knocker of which Dobbin performed a summons . 
A buxom looking lass of sixteen , with bright eyes and purple cheeks , came to answer the knock and looked hard at the Major as he leant back against the little porch . 
She held out both her hands shaking Don't you remember me ? she said . 
I used to call you Major Sugarplums . 
On which , and I believe it was for the first time that he ever so conducted himself in his life , the Major took the girl in his arms and kissed her . 
I'm an old friend , he said not without blushing though . 
A great shaking of hands ensued Mrs. Clapp was greatly affected and delighted she called upon heaven to interpose a vast many times in that passage . 
Twice or thrice he was going to ask about the marriage question , but his heart failed him . 
He did not care to lay it bare to these people . 
, of a fine afternoon , after dinner . 
I'm very much pressed for time , the Major said , and have business to night of importance . 
I should like to see Mrs. Osborne tho' . 
Suppose Miss Polly would come with me and show me the way ? Miss Polly was charmed and astonished at this proposal . 
She would show Major Dobbin . 
She had often been with Mr. Sedley when Mrs. O. was gone was gone Russell Square way and knew the bench where he liked to sit . 
That officer , then , in his blue frock coat and buckskin gloves , gave the young lady his arm , and they walked away very gaily . 
He was glad to have a friend at hand for the scene which he dreaded somehow . 
He asked a thousand more questions from his companion about Amelia his kind heart grieved to think that she should have had to part with her son . 
And in the midst of their walk an incident occurred which , though very simple in its nature , was productive of the greatest delight to Major Dobbin . 
A pale young man with feeble whiskers and a stiff white neckcloth came walking down the lane , en sandwich having a lady , that is , on each arm . 
Who's that ? asked the Major , amused by the group , and after he had made way for the three to pass up the lane . 
Mary looked at him rather roguishly . 
They were married last month , and are just come back from Margate . 
She's five thousand pound to her fortune but her and Miss B. , who made the match , have quarrelled already . 
If the Major had twitched before , he started now , and slapped the bamboo on the ground with an emphasis which made Miss Clapp cry , Law , and laugh too . 
through the Brompton lanes , and entering at the little old portal in Kensington Garden wall . 
There they are , said Miss Polly , and she felt him again start back on her arm . 
She was a confidante at once of the whole business . 
She knew the story as well as if she had read it in one of her favourite novel books Fatherless Fanny , or the Scottish Chiefs . 
Suppose you were to run on and tell her , the Major said . 
Polly ran forward , her yellow shawl streaming in the breeze . 
She could of late think of her own affairs , and smile or make other marks of recognition of her father's stories , scarcely hearing a word of the old man's tales . 
As Mary came bouncing along , and Amelia caught sight of her , she started up from her bench . 
Her first thought was that something had happened to Georgy , but the sight of the messenger's eager and happy face dissipated that fear in the timorous mother's bosom . 
News ! News ! cried the emissary of Major Dobbin . 
He's come ! He's come ! Who is come ? said Emmy , still thinking of her son . 
Look there , answered Miss Clapp , turning round and pointing in which direction Amelia looking , saw Dobbin's lean figure and long shadow stalking across the grass . 
Amelia started in her turn , blushed up , and , of course , began to cry . 
At all this simple little creature's fetes , the grandes eaux were accustomed to play . 
He looked at her oh , how fondly as she came running towards him , her hands before her , ready to give them to him . 
She was a little pale , a little stouter in figure . 
Her eyes were the same , the kind trustful eyes . 
There were scarce three lines of silver in her soft brown hair . 
She gave him both her hands as she looked up flushing and smiling through her tears into his honest homely face . 
He took the two little hands between his two and held them there . 
He was speechless for a moment . 
Why did he not take her in his arms and swear that he would never leave her ? She must have yielded she could not but have obeyed him . 
I I've another arrival to announce , he said after a pause . 
Papa , Papa ! Emmy cried out , here are news ! My brother is in England . 
He is come to take care of you . 
Mr. Sedley started up , shaking a great deal and gathering up his thoughts . 
Then he stepped forward and made an old fashioned bow to the Major , whom he called Mr. Dobbin , and hoped his worthy father , Sir William , was quite well . 
He proposed to call upon Sir William , who had done him the honour of a visit a short time ago . 
Sir William had not called upon the old gentleman for eight years it was that visit he was thinking of returning . 
He is very much shaken , Emmy whispered as Dobbin went up and cordially shook hands with the old man . 
Although he had such particular business in London that evening , the Major consented to forego it upon Mr. Sedley's invitation to him to come home and partake of tea . 
Amelia put her arm under that of her young friend with the yellow shawl and headed the party on their return homewards , so that Mr. Sedley fell to Dobbin's share . 
The old man walked very slowly and told a number of ancient histories about himself and his poor Bessy , his former prosperity , and his bankruptcy . 
His thoughts , as is usual with failing old men , were quite in former times . 
The present , with the exception of the one catastrophe which he felt , he knew little about . 
The Major was glad to let him talk on . 
His eyes were fixed upon the figure in front of him the dear little figure always present to his imagination and in his prayers , and visiting his dreams wakeful or slumbering . 
Amelia was very happy , smiling , and active all that evening , performing her duties as hostess of the little entertainment with the utmost grace and propriety , as Dobbin thought . 
His eyes followed her about as they sat in the twilight . 
Amelia seeing this propensity , laughingly encouraged it and looked exceedingly roguish as she administered to him cup after cup . 
The first thing Mrs. Osborne showed the Major was Georgy's miniature , for which she ran upstairs on her arrival at home . 
He knows EVERYTHING , Amelia said . 
He has the most delightful parties . 
The last Tuesday in every month . 
He says there is no place in the bar or the senate that Georgy may not aspire to . 
Look here , and she went to the piano drawer and drew out a theme of Georgy's composition . 
An undue love of Self leads to the most monstrous crimes and occasions the greatest misfortunes both in States and Families . 
As a selfish man will impoverish his family and often bring them to ruin , so a selfish king brings ruin on his people and often plunges them into war . 
Example The selfishness of Achilles , as remarked by the poet Homer , occasioned a thousand woes to the Greeks muri Achaiois alge etheke . 
The selfishness of the late Napoleon Bonaparte occasioned innumerable wars in Europe and caused him to perish , himself , in a miserable island that of Saint Helena in the Atlantic Ocean . 
We see by these examples that we are not to consult our own interest and ambition , but that we are to consider the interests of others as well as our own . 
George S. Osborne Athene House , April , Think of him writing such a hand , and quoting Greek too , at his age , the delighted mother said . 
This sentiment passed rapidly through William's mind as he was holding Amelia's hand , whilst the handkerchief was veiling her eyes . 
Dear friend , she said , pressing the hand which held hers , how good , how kind you always have been to me ! See ! Papa is stirring . 
You will go and see Georgy tomorrow , won't you ? Not to morrow , said poor old Dobbin . 
And presently he took his leave , leaving his address behind him for Jos , against the latter's arrival . 
And so the first day was over , and he had seen her . 
When he got back to the Slaughters' , the roast fowl was of course cold , in which condition he ate it for supper . 
CHAPTER LIX The Old Piano The Major's visit left old John Sedley in a great state of agitation and excitement . 
His daughter could not induce him to settle down to his customary occupations or amusements that night . 
He passed the evening fumbling amongst his boxes and desks , untying his papers with trembling hands , and sorting and arranging them against Jos's arrival . 
, the patent saw mills and sawdust consolidation project , c . 
All night , until a very late hour , he passed in the preparation of these documents , trembling about from one room to another , with a quivering candle and shaky hands . 
He shall find no irregularity about ME , Emmy , the old gentleman said . 
I don't think Jos will care about seeing those papers , Papa , she said . 
You don't know anything about business , my dear , answered the sire , shaking his head with an important air . 
And it must be confessed that on this point Emmy was very ignorant , and that is a pity some people are so knowing . 
Amelia found him up very early the next morning , more eager , more hectic , and more shaky than ever . 
I didn't sleep much , Emmy , my dear , he said . 
I was thinking of my poor Bessy . 
I wish she was alive , to ride in Jos's carriage once again . 
She kept her own and became it very well . 
And his eyes filled with tears , which trickled down his furrowed old face . 
Amelia , as she read out the letter to her father , paused over the latter word her brother , it was clear , did not know what had happened in the family . 
For Jos's former shyness and blundering blushing timidity had given way to a more candid and courageous self assertion of his worth . 
HE , I promise , did not decline the obsequious invitation of the landlords to alight and refresh himself in the neat country towns . 
At Alton he stepped out of the carriage at his servant's request and imbibed some of the ale for which the place is famous . 
At Farnham he stopped to view the Bishop's Castle and to partake of a light dinner of stewed eels , veal cutlets , and French beans , with a bottle of claret . 
For , you see , we have adroitly shut the door upon the meeting between Jos and the old father and the poor little gentle sister inside . 
The old man was very much affected so , of course , was his daughter nor was Jos without feeling . 
In that long absence of ten years , the most selfish will think about home and early ties . 
Long brooding over those lost pleasures exaggerates their charm and sweetness . 
Emmy had come out to the door in her black clothes and whispered to him of her mother's death , and not to speak of it to their father . 
There was no need of this caution , for the elder Sedley himself began immediately to speak of the event , and prattled about it , and wept over it plenteously . 
It shocked the Indian not a little and made him think of himself less than the poor fellow was accustomed to do . 
She shook her head sadly and had , as usual , recourse to the waterworks . 
She knew what he meant . 
Not that Emmy , being made aware of the honest Major's passion , rebuffed him in any way , or felt displeased with him . 
Such an attachment from so true and loyal a gentleman could make no woman angry . 
why , Miranda was even very kind to Caliban , and we may be pretty sure for the same reason . 
Not that she would encourage him in the least the poor uncouth monster of course not . 
No more would Emmy by any means encourage her admirer , the Major . 
She slept , therefore , very soundly that evening , after the conversation with Miss Polly , and was more than ordinarily happy , in spite of Jos's delaying . 
I am glad he is not going to marry that Miss O'Dowd , she thought . 
Colonel O'Dowd never could have a sister fit for such an accomplished man as Major William . 
Who was there amongst her little circle who would make him a good wife ? Not Miss Binny , she was too old and ill tempered Miss Osborne ? too old too . 
Little Polly was too young . 
Mrs. Osborne could not find anybody to suit the Major before she went to sleep . 
, and entreating Dob to engage comfortable rooms at the Slaughters' for Mr. Sedley and his servants . 
The Major had become necessary to Jos during the voyage . 
He was attached to him , and hung upon him . 
The other passengers were away to London . 
that he had been to see Mrs. George Osborne . 
Jos was so comfortably situated in St . 
That gentleman would not let the Bengalee rest until he had executed his promise of having a home for Amelia and his father . 
Loll Jewab , of whom the boys about St . 
Amelia was not seldom by his side on these excursions , when also Major Dobbin would be seen in the back seat of the carriage . 
Shortly after Jos's first appearance at Brompton , a dismal scene , indeed , took place at that humble cottage at which the Sedleys had passed the last ten years of their life . 
arrived one day and carried off old Sedley and his daughter to return no more . 
The tears that were shed by the landlady and the landlady's daughter at that event were as genuine tears of sorrow as any that have been outpoured in the course of this history . 
Most of them scolded and grumbled some of them did not pay none of them stayed . 
The landlady might well regret those old , old friends , who had left her . 
As for Miss Mary , her sorrow at Amelia's departure was such as I shall not attempt to depict . 
Amelia loved her like a daughter . 
During eleven years the girl had been her constant friend and associate . 
The separation was a very painful one indeed to her . 
Let us hope she was wrong in her judgement . 
Poor Emmy's days of happiness had been very few in that humble cot . 
A gloomy Fate had oppressed her there . 
Her servility and fulsome compliments when Emmy was in prosperity were not more to that lady's liking . 
She cast about notes of admiration all over the new house , extolling every article of furniture or ornament she fingered Mrs. Osborne's dresses and calculated their price . 
Nothing could be too good for that sweet lady , she vowed and protested . 
Nobody ever heard of these griefs , which had been part of our poor little woman's lot in life . 
She kept them secret from her father , whose improvidence was the cause of much of her misery . 
She had to bear all the blame of his misdoings , and indeed was so utterly gentle and humble as to be made by nature for a victim . 
I hope she is not to suffer much more of that hard usage . 
and her piano that little old piano which had now passed into a plaintive jingling old age , but which she loved for reasons of her own . 
She was a child when first she played on it , and her parents gave it her . 
It had been given to her again since , as the reader may remember , when her father's house was gone to ruin and the instrument was recovered out of the wreck . 
Amelia would have it up in her sitting room , a neat little apartment on the second floor , adjoining her father's chamber , and where the old gentleman sat commonly of evenings . 
When the men appeared then bearing this old music box , and Amelia gave orders that it should be placed in the chamber aforesaid , Dobbin was quite elated . 
I'm glad you've kept it , he said in a very sentimental manner . 
I was afraid you didn't care about it . 
I value it more than anything I have in the world , said Amelia . 
Do you , Amelia ? cried the Major . 
Emmy did not note the circumstance at the time , nor take immediate heed of the very dismal expression which honest Dobbin's countenance assumed , but she thought of it afterwards . 
And then it struck her , with inexpressible pain and mortification too , that it was William who was the giver of the piano , and not George , as she had fancied . 
It was not George's gift the only one which she had received from her lover , as she thought the thing she had cherished beyond all others her dearest relic and prize . 
It was not George's relic . 
The next time that old Sedley asked her to play , she said it was shockingly out of tune , that she had a headache , that she couldn't play . 
About what ? said he . 
About about that little square piano . 
I never thanked you for it when you gave it me , many , many years ago , before I was married . 
I thought somebody else had given it . 
She held out her hand , but the poor little woman's heart was bleeding and as for her eyes , of course they were at their work . 
But William could hold no more . 
Amelia , Amelia , he said , I did buy it for you . 
I loved you then as I do now . 
I think I loved you from the first minute that I saw you , when George brought me to your house , to show me the Amelia whom he was engaged to . 
You were but a girl , in white , with large ringlets you came down singing do you remember ? and we went to Vauxhall . 
Since then I have thought of but one woman in the world , and that was you . 
I think there is no hour in the day has passed for twelve years that I haven't thought of you . 
I came to tell you this before I went to India , but you did not care , and I hadn't the heart to speak . 
You did not care whether I stayed or went . 
I was very ungrateful , Amelia said . 
No , only indifferent , Dobbin continued desperately . 
I have nothing to make a woman to be otherwise . 
I know what you are feeling now . 
You are hurt in your heart at the discovery about the piano , and that it came from me and not from George . 
I forgot , or I should never have spoken of it so . 
It is for me to ask your pardon for being a fool for a moment , and thinking that years of constancy and devotion might have pleaded with you . 
It is you who are cruel now , Amelia said with some spirit . 
George is my husband , here and in heaven . 
How could I love any other but him ? I am his now as when you first saw me , dear William . 
It was he who told me how good and generous you were , and who taught me to love you as a brother . 
Oh , it nearly killed me , William but you didn't come , though I wished and prayed for you to come , and they took him too away from me . 
Isn't he a noble boy , William ? Be his friend still and mine and here her voice broke , and she hid her face on his shoulder . 
The Major folded his arms round her , holding her to him as if she was a child , and kissed her head . 
I will not change , dear Amelia , he said . 
I ask for no more than your love . 
I think I would not have it otherwise . 
Only let me stay near you and see you often . 
Yes , often , Amelia said . 
And so William was at liberty to look and long as the poor boy at school who has no money may sigh after the contents of the tart woman's tray . 
CHAPTER LX Returns to the Genteel World Good fortune now begins to smile upon Amelia . 
Jos's friends were all from the three presidencies , and his new house was in the comfortable Anglo Indian district of which Moira Place is the centre . 
admitted , I say , partner into the great agency house of Fogle and Fake two years before it failed for a million and plunged half the Indian public into misery and ruin . 
Scape , ruined , honest , and broken hearted at sixty five years of age , went out to Calcutta to wind up the affairs of the house . 
Walter Scape was withdrawn from Eton and put into a merchant's house . 
Florence Scape , Fanny Scape , and their mother faded away to Boulogne , and will be heard of no more . 
To be brief , Jos stepped in and bought their carpets and sideboards and admired himself in the mirrors which had reflected their kind handsome faces . 
The Scape tradesmen , all honourably paid , left their cards , and were eager to supply the new household . 
The large men in white waistcoats who waited at Scape's dinners , greengrocers , bank porters , and milkmen in their private capacity , left their addresses and ingratiated themselves with the butler . 
It was a modest establishment . 
The butler was Jos's valet also , and never was more drunk than a butler in a small family should be who has a proper regard for his master's wine . 
Numbers of people came to see Mrs. Osborne . 
Lady Dobbin and daughters were delighted at her change of fortune , and waited upon her . 
Miss Osborne from Russell Square came in her grand chariot with the flaming hammer cloth emblazoned with the Leeds arms . 
Jos was reported to be immensely rich . 
Old Osborne had no objection that Georgy should inherit his uncle's property as well as his own . 
Damn it , we will make a man of the feller , he said and I'll see him in Parliament before I die . 
You may go and see his mother , Miss O. , though I'll never set eyes on her and Miss Osborne came . 
Emmy , you may be sure , was very glad to see her , and so be brought nearer to George . 
That young fellow was allowed to come much more frequently than before to visit his mother . 
He dined once or twice a week in Gillespie Street and bullied the servants and his relations there , just as he did in Russell Square . 
He was always respectful to Major Dobbin , however , and more modest in his demeanour when that gentleman was present . 
He was a clever lad and afraid of the Major . 
George could not help admiring his friend's simplicity , his good humour , his various learning quietly imparted , his general love of truth and justice . 
He had met no such man as yet in the course of his experience , and he had an instinctive liking for a gentleman . 
He hung fondly by his godfather's side , and it was his delight to walk in the parks and hear Dobbin talk . 
William told George about his father , about India and Waterloo , about everything but himself . 
When George was more than usually pert and conceited , the Major made jokes at him , which Mrs. Osborne thought very cruel . 
He had not been seated there very long before he felt an arm thrust under his and a dandy little hand in a kid glove squeezing his arm . 
George had seen the absurdity of his ways and come down from the upper region . 
A tender laugh of benevolence lighted up old Dobbin's face and eyes as he looked at the repentant little prodigal . 
He loved the boy , as he did everything that belonged to Amelia . 
How charmed she was when she heard of this instance of George's goodness ! Her eyes looked more kindly on Dobbin than they ever had done . 
She blushed , he thought , after looking at him so . 
Georgy never tired of his praises of the Major to his mother . 
If there was a sincere liking between George and the Major , it must be confessed that between the boy and his uncle no great love existed . 
The servants would explode at dinner if the lad , asking for something which wasn't at table , put on that countenance and used that favourite phrase . 
Even Dobbin would shoot out a sudden peal at the boy's mimicry . 
If George did not mimic his uncle to his face , it was only by Dobbin's rebukes and Amelia's terrified entreaties that the little scapegrace was induced to desist . 
When it was announced that the young gentleman was expected in Gillespie Street to dine with his mother , Mr. Jos commonly found that he had an engagement at the Club . 
Perhaps nobody was much grieved at his absence . 
He was the ami de la maison old Sedley's friend , Emmy's friend , Georgy's friend , Jos's counsel and adviser . 
He might almost as well be at Madras for anything WE see of him , Miss Ann Dobbin remarked at Camberwell . 
Amelia had to receive and entertain these gentlemen and their ladies . 
This and similar talk took place at the grand dinners all round . 
They had the same conversation the same silver dishes the same saddles of mutton , boiled turkeys , and entrees . 
Politics set in a short time after dessert , when the ladies retired upstairs and talked about their complaints and their children . 
Mutato nomine , it is all the same . 
Lady Huff , wife of Sir G. Huff , Bombay ditto Mrs. Pice , the Lady of Pice the Director , c . 
We are not long in using ourselves to changes in life . 
The lady's maid and the chariot , the visiting book and the buttony page , became soon as familiar to Amelia as the humble routine of Brompton . 
She accommodated herself to one as to the other . 
If Fate had ordained that she should be a Duchess , she would even have done that duty too . 
She was voted , in Jos's female society , rather a pleasing young person not much in her , but pleasing , and that sort of thing . 
The men , as usual , liked her artless kindness and simple refined demeanour . 
Had the Major possessed a little more personal vanity he would have been jealous of so dangerous a young buck as that fascinating Bengal Captain . 
But Dobbin was of too simple and generous a nature to have any doubts about Amelia . 
He was glad that the young men should pay her respect , and that others should admire her . 
Shall I wear the family diamonds , Jos ? she said . 
I wish you would let me buy you some , thought the Major . 
I should like to see any that were too good for you . 
and serves for another purpose of utility , of which the undertaker's men can give you a notion . 
They rest the coffins upon that arch , or pass them through it so as not to disturb in any unseemly manner the cold tenant slumbering within the black ark . 
The nurse will look in at the curtains , and you take no notice and then she will fling open the windows for a little and let in the air . 
Then they will pull down all the front blinds of the house and live in the back rooms then they will send for the lawyer and other men in black , c . 
Your comedy and mine will have been played then , and we shall be removed , oh , how far , from the trumpets , and the shouting , and the posture making . 
If we are gentlefolks they will put hatchments over our late domicile , with gilt cherubim , and mottoes stating that there is Quiet in Heaven . 
Which of the dead are most tenderly and passionately deplored ? Those who love the survivors the least , I believe . 
The death of a child occasions a passion of grief and frantic tears , such as your end , brother reader , will never inspire . 
We may be harsh and stern with Judah and Simeon our love and pity gush out for Benjamin , the little one . 
I am very rich , and they want my inheritance or very poor , and they are tired of supporting me . 
So Jos and his acquaintances dined and drank their claret among themselves in silence , whilst the sands of life were running out in the old man's glass upstairs . 
The old man clung to his daughter during this sickness . 
He would take his broths and medicines from scarcely any other hand . 
To tend him became almost the sole business of her life . 
Her bed was placed close by the door which opened into his chamber , and she was alive at the slightest noise or disturbance from the couch of the querulous invalid . 
Though , to do him justice , he lay awake many an hour , silent and without stirring , unwilling to awaken his kind and vigilant nurse . 
He loved his daughter with more fondness now , perhaps , than ever he had done since the days of her childhood . 
In the discharge of gentle offices and kind filial duties , this simple creature shone most especially . 
Old Sedley forgot these charges as he was making up his last account , and did justice to the gentle and uncomplaining little martyr . 
One night when she stole into his room , she found him awake , when the broken old man made his confession . 
Oh , Emmy , I've been thinking we were very unkind and unjust to you , he said and put out his cold and feeble hand to her . 
She knelt down and prayed by his bedside , as he did too , having still hold of her hand . 
Major Dobbin , Jos , and Georgy followed his remains to the grave , in a black cloth coach . 
Jos came on purpose from the Star and Garter at Richmond , whither he retreated after the deplorable event . 
He did not care to remain in the house , with the under the circumstances , you understand . 
But Emmy stayed and did her duty as usual . 
She was bowed down by no especial grief , and rather solemn than sorrowful . 
Yes , I think that will be the better ending of the two , after all . 
I have served my King and country with honour . 
I was in Parliament for several years , where , I may say , my speeches were listened to and pretty well received . 
I don't owe any man a shilling on the contrary , I lent my old college friend , Jack Lazarus , fifty pounds , for which my executors will not press him . 
I leave twenty pound a year to my valet and I defy any man after I have gone to find anything against my character . 
I was not endowed either with brains or with good fortune , and confess that I have committed a hundred mistakes and blunders . 
I own to having forgotten my duty many a time . 
I can't pay what I owe . 
You see , said old Osborne to George , what comes of merit , and industry , and judicious speculations , and that . 
Look at me and my banker's account . 
Look at your poor Grandfather Sedley and his failure . 
And yet he was a better man than I was , this day twenty years a better man , I should say , by ten thousand pound . 
how distinguished an officer Major Dobbin was , he exhibited a great deal of scornful incredulity and expressed his surprise how ever such a feller as that should possess either brains or reputation . 
But he heard of the Major's fame from various members of his society . 
Sir William Dobbin had a great opinion of his son and narrated many stories illustrative of the Major's learning , valour , and estimation in the world's opinion . 
Finally , his name appeared in the lists of one or two great parties of the nobility , and this circumstance had a prodigious effect upon the old aristocrat of Russell Square . 
When pressed upon the point , Dobbin , who could not tell lies , blushed and stammered a good deal and finally confessed . 
was very much my doing . 
He strove to soften the old man and reconcile him towards his son's memory . 
He was such a noble fellow , he said , that all of us loved him , and would have done anything for him . 
And Georgy is so like him , the Major added . 
He's so like him that he makes me tremble sometimes , the grandfather said . 
, and as the two sat together in the evening after dinner , all their talk was about the departed hero . 
You'd have been glad enough to git him for yourself , Miss O. But them grapes are sour . 
Ha ! ha ! Major William is a fine feller . 
And he told the story at night to his mother , who fully agreed with the boy . 
Indeed he is , she said . 
Your dear father always said so . 
He is one of the best and most upright of men . 
Dobbin happened to drop in very soon after this conversation , which made Amelia blush perhaps , and the young scapegrace increased the confusion by telling Dobbin the other part of the story . 
I say , Dob , he said , there's such an uncommon nice girl wants to marry you . 
She's plenty of tin she wears a front and she scolds the servants from morning till night . 
Who is it ? asked Dobbin . 
It's Aunt O. , the boy answered . 
And I say , Dob , how prime it would be to have you for my uncle . 
Old Sedley's quavering voice from the next room at this moment weakly called for Amelia , and the laughing ended . 
That old Osborne's mind was changing was pretty clear . 
He asked George about his uncle sometimes , and laughed at the boy's imitation of the way in which Jos said God bless my soul and gobbled his soup . 
Then he said , It's not respectful , sir , of you younkers to be imitating of your relations . 
Miss O. , when you go out adriving to day , leave my card upon Mr. Sedley , do you hear ? There's no quarrel betwigst me and him anyhow . 
Jos said , with great solemnity , it was the best turtle soup he had ever tasted in his life , and asked Mr. Osborne where he got his Madeira . 
It is some of Sedley's wine , whispered the butler to his master . 
More than once he asked the Major about about Mrs. George Osborne a theme on which the Major could be very eloquent when he chose . 
You don't know what she endured , sir , said honest Dobbin with a tremor in his voice , and I hope and trust you will be reconciled to her . 
If she took your son away from you , she gave hers to you and however much you loved your George , depend on it , she loved hers ten times more . 
By God , you are a good feller , sir , was all Mr. Os borne said . 
It had never struck him that the widow would feel any pain at parting from the boy , or that his having a fine fortune could grieve her . 
A reconciliation was announced as speedy and inevitable , and Amelia's heart already began to beat at the notion of the awful meeting with George's father . 
It was never , however , destined to take place . 
Old Sedley's lingering illness and death supervened , after which a meeting was for some time impossible . 
That catastrophe and other events may have worked upon Mr. Osborne . 
He was much shaken of late , and aged , and his mind was working inwardly . 
He had sent for his lawyers , and probably changed something in his will . 
The medical man who looked in pronounced him shaky , agitated , and talked of a little blood and the seaside but he took neither of these remedies . 
Miss Osborne was apprised the doctors were sent for Georgy stopped away from school the bleeders and cuppers came . 
Osborne partially regained cognizance , but never could speak again , though he tried dreadfully once or twice , and in four days he died . 
The doctors went down , and the undertaker's men went up the stairs , and all the shutters were shut towards the garden in Russell Square . 
Bullock rushed from the City in a hurry . 
How much money had he left to that boy ? Not half , surely ? Surely share and share alike between the three ? It was an agitating moment . 
They found in the pocket of his dressing gown the letter with the great red seal which George had written him from Waterloo . 
When the will was opened , it was found that half the property was left to George , and the remainder between the two sisters . 
Mr. Bullock to continue , for their joint benefit , the affairs of the commercial house , or to go out , as he thought fit . 
When Amelia heard that her father in law was reconciled to her , her heart melted , and she was grateful for the fortune left to her . 
, the others no longer grumbled at the sound of her bell , or delayed to answer that summons . 
Miss Osborne not choosing to live in Russell Square , Mrs. Osborne also , after consultation , declined to occupy the gloomy old mansion there . 
And the great heavy dark plate chests went off to Messrs . 
Stumpy and Rowdy , to lie in the cellars of those eminent bankers until the same period should arrive . 
One day Emmy , with George in her hand and clad in deep sables , went to visit the deserted mansion which she had not entered since she was a girl . 
The place in front was littered with straw where the vans had been laden and rolled off . 
They went into the great blank rooms , the walls of which bore the marks where the pictures and mirrors had hung . 
The boy was still clinging by her side , but she thought of another besides him . 
She knew that it had been his father's room as well as his own . 
She thought of these and of the man who had been her constant protector , her good genius , her sole benefactor , her tender and generous friend . 
Look here , Mother , said Georgy , here's a G. O. scratched on the glass with a diamond , I never saw it before , I never did it . 
It was your father's room long before you were born , George , she said , and she blushed as she kissed the boy . 
and where of course there was a room for Major Dobbin too , who rode over frequently , having much business to transact on behalf of his little ward . 
He went over his head and bounded into the little advance of Bullocks , with immense black bows in their hats , and huge black sashes , accompanying their mourning mamma . 
He is just of the age for Rosa , the fond parent thought , and glanced towards that dear child , an unwholesome little miss of seven years of age . 
Rosa , go and kiss your dear cousin , Mrs. Frederick said . 
Don't you know me , George ? I am your aunt . 
I know you well enough , George said but I don't like kissing , please and he retreated from the obedient caresses of his cousin . 
Take me to your dear mamma , you droll child , Mrs. Frederick said , and those ladies accordingly met , after an absence of more than fifteen years . 
Our old friend , Miss Swartz , and her husband came thundering over from Hampton Court , with flaming yellow liveries , and was as impetuously fond of Amelia as ever . 
Miss Swartz would have liked her always if she could have seen her . 
One must do her that justice . 
There was scarce one of the ladies that hadn't a relation a Peer , though the husband might be a drysalter in the City . 
Some of the ladies were very blue and well informed , reading Mrs. Somerville and frequenting the Royal Institution others were severe and Evangelical , and held by Exeter Hall . 
That lady persisted in patronizing her and determined most graciously to form her . 
She found Amelia's milliners for her and regulated her household and her manners . 
She drove over constantly from Roehampton and entertained her friend with faint fashionable fiddle faddle and feeble Court slip slop . 
Jos liked to hear it , but the Major used to go off growling at the appearance of this woman , with her twopenny gentility . 
She seems good natured but insipid , said Mrs. Rowdy that Major seems to be particularly epris . 
She wants ton sadly , said Mrs. Hollyock . 
My dear creature , you never will be able to form her . 
She is dreadfully ignorant or indifferent , said Mrs. Glowry with a voice as if from the grave , and a sad shake of the head and turban . 
You may fancy there can be no MERCENARY motives in those whose DISAPPOINTMENTS are well known . 
That poor dear Mrs. Bullock , said Rowdy to Hollyock , as they drove away together she is always scheming and managing . 
I wish Glowry was choked with her Man of Sin and her Battle of Armageddon , cried the other , and the carriage rolled away over Putney Bridge . 
But this sort of society was too cruelly genteel for Emmy , and all jumped for joy when a foreign tour was proposed . 
The congregation of hat boxes , and Bramah desks , and dressing cases was prodigious . 
There was Sir John's great carriage that would hold thirteen people my Lord Methuselah's carriage , my Lord Bareacres' chariot , britzska , and fourgon , that anybody might pay for who liked . 
It was a wonder how my Lord got the ready money to pay for the expenses of the journey . 
The Hebrew gentlemen knew how he got it . 
They knew what money his Lordship had in his pocket at that instant , and what interest he paid for it , and who gave it him . 
Finally there was a very neat , handsome travelling carriage , about which the gentlemen speculated . 
A qui cette voiture la ? said one gentleman courier with a large morocco money bag and ear rings to another with ear rings and a large morocco money bag . 
C'est a Kirsch je bense je l'ai vu toute a l'heure qui brenoit des sangviches dans la voiture , said the courier in a fine German French . 
Nous allons avoir une belle traversee , Monsieur George , said the courier with a grin , as he lifted his gold laced cap . 
was our young friend George Osborne . 
Uncle Jos and his mamma were on the quarter deck with a gentleman of whom they used to see a good deal , and the four were about to make a summer tour . 
Jos was seated at that moment on deck under the awning , and pretty nearly opposite to the Earl of Bareacres and his family , whose proceedings absorbed the Bengalee almost entirely . 
But changed as they were , the movements of the noble pair occupied Jos's mind entirely . 
The presence of a Lord fascinated him , and he could look at nothing else . 
Those people seem to interest you a good deal , said Dobbin , laughing and watching him . 
What a heavenly day ! Emmy said and added , with great originality , I hope we shall have a calm passage . 
Jos waved his hand , scornfully glancing at the same time under his eyelids at the great folks opposite . 
If you had made the voyages we have , he said , you wouldn't much care about the weather . 
But nevertheless , traveller as he was , he passed the night direfully sick in his carriage , where his courier tended him with brandy and water and every luxury . 
In due time this happy party landed at the quays of Rotterdam , whence they were transported by another steamer to the city of Cologne . 
Wherever the party stopped , and an opportunity was offered , Mr. Jos left his own card and the Major's upon Our Minister . 
As for Emmy , she was very happy and pleased . 
Dobbin used to carry about for her her stool and sketch book , and admired the drawings of the good natured little artist as they never had been admired before . 
She laughed , and the Major did too , at his droll figure on donkey back , with his long legs touching the ground . 
He was the interpreter for the party having a good military knowledge of the German language , and he and the delighted George fought the campaigns of the Rhine and the Palatinate . 
Mr. Jos did not much engage in the afternoon excursions of his fellow travellers . 
He slept a good deal after dinner , or basked in the arbours of the pleasant inn gardens . 
and whether he woke or slept , his friends did not very much miss him . 
Yes , they were very happy . 
Here it was that Emmy found her delight , and was introduced for the first time to the wonders of Mozart and Cimarosa . 
The Major's musical taste has been before alluded to , and his performances on the flute commended . 
But perhaps the chief pleasure he had in these operas was in watching Emmy's rapture while listening to them . 
he told her an Eastern fable of the Owl who thought that the sunshine was unbearable for the eyes and that the Nightingale was a most overrated bird . 
I like to dwell upon this period of her life and to think that she was cheerful and happy . 
You see , she has not had too much of that sort of existence as yet , and has not fallen in the way of means to educate her tastes or her intelligence . 
She has been domineered over hitherto by vulgar intellects . 
It is the lot of many a woman . 
And it must be remembered that this poor lady had never met a gentleman in her life until this present moment . 
Perhaps these are rarer personages than some of us think for . 
My friend the Major I write , without any doubt , in mine . 
He had very long legs , a yellow face , and a slight lisp , which at first was rather ridiculous . 
But his thoughts were just , his brains were fairly good , his life was honest and pure , and his heart warm and humble . 
that I first saw Colonel Dobbin and his party . 
They had arrived with the carriage and courier at the Erbprinz Hotel , the best of the town , and the whole party dined at the table d'hote . 
Everybody remarked the majesty of Jos and the knowing way in which he sipped , or rather sucked , the Johannisberger , which he ordered for dinner . 
Every woman in the house was snivelling at the time , but I suppose it was because it was predestined that I was to write this particular lady's memoirs that I remarked her . 
The next day they gave another piece of Beethoven , Die Schlacht bei Vittoria . 
Malbrook is introduced at the beginning of the performance , as indicative of the brisk advance of the French army . 
Then come drums , trumpets , thunders of artillery , and groans of the dying , and at last , in a grand triumphal swell , God Save the King is performed . 
As for Tapeworm , the Charge d'Affaires , he rose up in his box and bowed and simpered , as if he would represent the whole empire . 
Look at that infernal sly boots of a Tapeworm , Fipps whispered , examining his chief from the stalls . 
Wherever there's a pretty woman he always twists himself in . 
And I wonder what were diplomatists made for but for that ? Have I the honour of addressing myself to Mrs. Dobbin ? asked the Secretary with a most insinuating grin . 
Georgy burst out laughing and said , By Jove , that was a good 'un . 
Emmy and the Major blushed we saw them from the stalls . 
My lord nearly sent Jos off his legs with the most fascinating smile . 
Are you going to stop in Pumpernickel ? he said . 
It is a dull place , but we want some nice people , and we would try and make it SO agreeable to you . 
I shall do myself the honour of calling upon you to morrow at your inn . 
And he went away with a Parthian grin and glance which he thought must finish Mrs. Osborne completely . 
The performance over , the young fellows lounged about the lobbies , and we saw the society take its departure . 
Michael of Pumpernickel were most conspicuous . 
The drums rolled , the guards saluted , and the old carriage drove away . 
Then came his Transparency the Duke and Transparent family , with his great officers of state and household . 
He bowed serenely to everybody . 
Everybody in Pumpernickel knew everybody . 
We watched them , too , out of the theatre . 
Tapeworm had just walked off , enveloped in his cloak , with which his gigantic chasseur was always in attendance , and looking as much as possible like Don Juan . 
We all walked together and talked to the stout gentleman about the agremens of the place . 
It was very agreeable for the English . 
There were shooting parties and battues there was a plenty of balls and entertainments at the hospitable Court the society was generally good the theatre excellent and the living cheap . 
And our Minister seems a most delightful and affable person , our new friend said . 
With such a representative , and and a good medical man , I can fancy the place to be most eligible . 
And Jos creaked up the stairs to bedward , followed by Kirsch with a flambeau . 
We rather hoped that nice looking woman would be induced to stay some time in the town . 
Lord Tapeworm inherited no little portion of the family gallantry , and it was his happy belief that almost every woman upon whom he himself cast friendly eyes was in love with him . 
He left Emmy under the persuasion that she was slain by his wit and attractions and went home to his lodgings to write a pretty little note to her . 
She was not fascinated , only puzzled , by his grinning , his simpering , his scented cambric handkerchief , and his high heeled lacquered boots . 
Jos , on the contrary , was delighted . 
Put out my uniform , Kirsch both our uniforms . 
Dere came here last year , he said , Sheneral Bulkeley , an English Sheneral , tvice so pic as you , sir . 
I sent him back qvite tin after tree months , and he danced vid Baroness Glauber at the end of two . 
Jos's mind was made up the springs , the Doctor , the Court , and the Charge d'Affaires convinced him , and he proposed to spend the autumn in these delightful quarters . 
There is one Pavilion at Monblaisir which Aurelius Victor XV had arranged a great Prince but too fond of pleasure and which I am told is a perfect wonder of licentious elegance . 
The theatre of Pumpernickel is known and famous in that quarter of Germany . 
But the Prince executes his music in private now , and the Duchess only gives away her plays to the foreigners of distinction who visit her kind little Court . 
It is conducted with no small comfort and splendour . 
The Constitution is or was a moderate despotism , tempered by a Chamber that might or might not be elected . 
I never certainly could hear of its sitting in my time at Pumpernickel . 
The Prime Minister had lodgings in a second floor , and the Foreign Secretary occupied the comfortable lodgings over Zwieback's Conditorey . 
Besides the band , there was a rich and numerous staff of officers , and , I believe , a few men . 
That there were feuds in the place , no one can deny . 
Politics ran very high at Pumpernickel , and parties were very bitter . 
There was the Strumpff faction and the Lederlung party , the one supported by our envoy and the other by the French Charge d'Affaires , M. de Macabau . 
Everybody in the town was ranged in one or other of these factions . 
The Secretary of his Chancery was little Grignac , a young fellow , as malicious as Satan , and who made caricatures of Tapeworm in all the albums of the place . 
Neither Tapeworm nor Macabau ever sent home a dispatch to his government without a most savage series of attacks upon his rival . 
On their side they would . 
say , M. de Tapeworm continues his system of stupid insular arrogance and vulgar falsehood against the greatest nation in the world . 
His gold is prodigated in every direction which his stupid menaces fail to frighten . 
When one side or the other had written any particularly spicy dispatch , news of it was sure to slip out . 
Before the winter was far advanced , it is actually on record that Emmy took a night and received company with great propriety and modesty . 
Some of the German ladies , who are very sentimental and simple in their tastes , fell in love with her and began to call her du at once . 
These are trivial details , but they relate to happy times . 
So she drove about with one of her dear German friends , and Jos asleep on the back seat of the barouche . 
At this festival the magnificence displayed was such as had not been known in the little German place since the days of the prodigal Victor XIV . 
All the neighbouring Princes , Princesses , and Grandees were invited to the feast . 
The Princess was married by proxy , at her father's residence , by the Count de Schlusselback . 
, and bushels of the Order of Saint Michael of Pumpernickel were sent to the nobles of the Court , while hampers of the cordons and decorations of the Wheel of St . 
Catherine of Schlippenschloppen were brought to ours . 
The French envoy got both . 
Everybody was asked to the fetes of the marriage . 
Garlands and triumphal arches were hung across the road to welcome the young bride . 
The great Saint Michael's Fountain ran with uncommonly sour wine , while that in the Artillery Place frothed with beer . 
Georgy got one , wrenching it off , having swarmed up the pole to the delight of the spectators , and sliding down with the rapidity of a fall of water . 
But it was for the glory's sake merely . 
The boy gave the sausage to a peasant , who had very nearly seized it , and stood at the foot of the mast , blubbering , because he was unsuccessful . 
Crowds of foreigners arrived for the fetes , and of English , of course . 
Women were playing they were masked , some of them this license was allowed in these wild times of carnival . 
It was strange to look at her . 
Then she looked round her and saw Georgy's honest face staring at the scene . 
You have nevare played will you do me a littl' favor ? What is it ? said Georgy , blushing again . 
Mr. Kirsch was at work for his part at the rouge et noir and did not see his young master . 
Play this for me , if you please put it on any number , any number . 
And she took from her bosom a purse , and out of it a gold piece , the only coin there , and she put it into George's hand . 
The boy laughed and did as he was bid . 
The number came up sure enough . 
There is a power that arranges that , they say , for beginners . 
Thank you , said she , pulling the money towards her , thank you . 
Laissez moi tranquille , said Mr. Kirsch , very much excited by play and wine . 
ll faut s'amuser , parbleu . 
Je ne suis pas au service de Monsieur . 
Seeing his condition the Major did not choose to argue with the man , but contented himself with drawing away George and asking Jos if he would come away . 
He was standing close by the lady in the mask , who was playing with pretty good luck now , and looking on much interested at the game . 
Did you play ? asked the Major when they were out and on their way home . 
The boy said No. Give me your word of honour as a gentleman that you never will . 
Why ? said the boy it seems very good fun . 
When he had housed him , he went to bed and saw his light , in the little room outside of Amelia's , presently disappear . 
Amelia's followed half an hour afterwards . 
I don't know what made the Major note it so accurately . 
He put down one over the fair shoulder of the little gambler before him , and they won . 
She made a little movement to make room for him by her side , and just took the skirt of her gown from a vacant chair there . 
The portly gentleman , looking round to see that nobody of rank observed him , sat down he muttered Ah , really , well now , God bless my soul . 
I'm very fortunate I'm sure to give you good fortune , and other words of compliment and confusion . 
Do you play much ? the foreign mask said . 
I put a Nap or two down , said Jos with a superb air , flinging down a gold piece . 
Yes ay nap after dinner , said the mask archly . 
But Jos looking frightened , she continued , in her pretty French accent , You do not play to win . 
No more do I. I play to forget , but I cannot . 
I cannot forget old times , monsieur . 
Your little nephew is the image of his father and you you are not changed but yes , you are . 
Everybody changes , everybody forgets nobody has any heart . 
Good God , who is it ? asked Jos in a flutter . 
Can't you guess , Joseph Sedley ? said the little woman in a sad voice , and undoing her mask , she looked at him . 
Good heavens ! Mrs. Crawley ! gasped out Jos . 
Rebecca , said the other , putting her hand on his but she followed the game still , all the time she was looking at him . 
I am stopping at the Elephant , she continued . 
Ask for Madame de Raudon . 
I saw my dear Amelia to day how pretty she looked , and how happy ! So do you ! Everybody but me , who am wretched , Joseph Sedley . 
The red came up again , and she lost the whole of that stake . 
Come away , she said . 
And yet , madam , both are walking the world before our faces every day , without much shocking us . 
I defy any one to say that our Becky , who has certainly some vices , has not been presented to the public in a perfectly genteel and inoffensive manner . 
As Sir Pitt and Mr. Wenham were walking down to the House of Commons , the latter spied Mrs. Rawdon in a black veil , and lurking near the palace of the legislature . 
She sneaked away when her eyes met those of Wenham , and indeed never succeeded in her designs upon the Baronet . 
I have heard that she quite astonished her husband by the spirit which she exhibited in this quarrel , and her determination to disown Mrs. Becky . 
The fact was that Pitt's mind had been poisoned against her . 
A short time after Lord Steyne's accident Wenham had been with the Baronet and given him such a biography of Mrs. Becky as had astonished the member for Queen's Crawley . 
But Becky was left with a sad sad reputation in the esteem of a country gentleman and relative who had been once rather partial to her . 
The revenues of the Governor of Coventry Island are not large . 
Otherwise , scandal , separation , Doctors' Commons would ensue . 
But it was Mr. Wenham's business , Lord Steyne's business , Rawdon's , everybody's to get her out of the country , and hush up a most disagreeable affair . 
That young gentleman was consigned to the entire guardianship of his aunt and uncle , the former of whom had always possessed a great share of the child's affection . 
Rawdon Crawley , then grown a tall , fine lad , blushed when he got the letter . 
Oh , Aunt Jane , you are my mother ! he said and not and not that one . 
But he wrote back a kind and respectful letter to Mrs. Rebecca , then living at a boarding house at Florence . 
But we are advancing matters . 
Our darling Becky's first flight was not very far . 
But there was nothing in the story , only that Becky was always affable , easy , and good natured and with men especially . 
Lady Partlet marshalled all her daughters round her with a sweep of her parasol and retreated from the pier , darting savage glances at poor little Becky who stood alone there . 
On another day the packet came in . 
It had been blowing fresh , and it always suited Becky's humour to see the droll woe begone faces of the people as they emerged from the boat . 
Lady Slingstone happened to be on board this day . 
Her ladyship had been exceedingly ill in her carriage , and was greatly exhausted and scarcely fit to walk up the plank from the ship to the pier . 
Becky only laughed but I don't think she liked it . 
She felt she was alone , quite alone , and the far off shining cliffs of England were impassable to her . 
The behaviour of the men had undergone too I don't know what change . 
Grinstone showed his teeth and laughed in her face with a familiarity that was not pleasant . 
one day upon the jetty , as Becky took her walk there . 
Little Bobby nodded to her over his shoulder , without moving his hat , and continued his conversation with the heir of Heehaw . 
She began to feel that she was very lonely indeed . 
If HE'D been here , she said , those cowards would never have dared to insult me . 
She thought about him with great sadness and perhaps longing about his honest , stupid , constant kindness and fidelity his never ceasing obedience his good humour his bravery and courage . 
Very likely she cried , for she was particularly lively , and had put on a little extra rouge , when she came down to dinner . 
She rouged regularly now and and her maid got Cognac for her besides that which was charged in the hotel bill . 
Perhaps the insults of the men were not , however , so intolerable to her as the sympathy of certain women . 
Mrs. Crackenbury and Mrs. Washington White passed through Boulogne on their way to Switzerland . 
The party were protected by Colonel Horner , young Beaumoris , and of course old Crackenbury , and Mrs. White's little girl . 
) THEY did not avoid her . 
They giggled , cackled , tattled , condoled , consoled , and patronized her until they drove her almost wild with rage . 
To be patronized by THEM ! she thought , as they went away simpering after kissing her . 
And she heard Beaumoris's laugh ringing on the stair and knew quite well how to interpret his hilarity . 
And she was forced to fly into lodgings of which the dulness and solitude were most wearisome to her . 
Still she held up , in spite of these rebuffs , and tried to make a character for herself and conquer scandal . 
She went to church very regularly and sang louder than anybody there . 
She took up the cause of the widows of the shipwrecked fishermen , and gave work and drawings for the Quashyboo Mission she subscribed to the Assembly and WOULDN'T waltz . 
She saw people avoiding her , and still laboriously smiled upon them you never could suppose from her countenance what pangs of humiliation she might be enduring inwardly . 
Her history was after all a mystery . 
Parties were divided about her . 
She won over a good many by bursting into tears about her boy and exhibiting the most frantic grief when his name was mentioned , or she saw anybody like him . 
Swishtail's academy to pass his holidays with his mother . 
Whenever Becky made a little circle for herself with incredible toils and labour , somebody came and swept it down rudely , and she had all her work to begin over again . 
It was very hard very hard lonely and disheartening . 
Well , she not only took tracts , but she read them . 
From one colony to another Becky fled uneasily . 
Mrs. Hook Eagles took her up at one of these places a woman without a blemish in her character and a house in Portman Square . 
If you were a man of any spirit , Mr. Eagles , you would box the wretch's ears the next time you see him at the Club , she said to her husband . 
But Eagles was only a quiet old gentleman , husband to Mrs. Eagles , with a taste for geology , and not tall enough to reach anybody's ears . 
Becky was very respectable and orderly at first , but the life of humdrum virtue grew utterly tedious to her before long . 
Then she tried keeping house with a female friend then the double menage began to quarrel and get into debt . 
The women here are as amusing as those in May Fair , she told an old London friend who met her , only , their dresses are not quite so fresh . 
The men wear cleaned gloves , and are sad rogues , certainly , but they are not worse than Jack This and Tom That . 
Many people did so fancy , and Becky was for a while one of the most dashing ladies of the Countess's salons . 
She went to Waterloo and to Laeken , where George Osborne's monument much struck her . 
She made a little sketch of it . 
That poor Cupid ! she said how dreadfully he was in love with me , and what a fool he was ! I wonder whether little Emmy is alive . 
It was a good little creature and that fat brother of hers . 
I have his funny fat picture still among my papers . 
They were kind simple people . 
Here , as at Paris , Becky was a boarding house queen , and ruled in select pensions . 
So our little wanderer went about setting up her tent in various cities of Europe , as restless as Ulysses or Bampfylde Moore Carew . 
Her taste for disrespectability grew more and more remarkable . 
She became a perfect Bohemian ere long , herding with people whom it would make your hair stand on end to meet . 
The alternations of splendour and misery which these people undergo are very queer to view . 
Their life must be one of great excitement . 
Becky must it be owned ? took to this life , and took to it not unkindly . 
She went about from town to town among these Bohemians . 
The lucky Mrs. Rawdon was known at every play table in Germany . 
She and Madame de Cruchecassee kept house at Florence together . 
We are bound , you see , to give some account of Becky's biography , but of this part , the less , perhaps , that is said the better . 
They say that , when Mrs. Crawley was particularly down on her luck , she gave concerts and lessons in music here and there . 
and Eaves was certain that the unfortunate debutante in question was no other than Mrs. Rawdon Crawley . 
She was , in fact , no better than a vagabond upon this earth . 
The meeting between them , of which other persons , as it is hinted elsewhere , seem to have been acquainted , must have been a very affecting interview . 
The present historian can give no certain details regarding the event . 
All the great company in Rome thronged to his saloons Princes , Dukes , Ambassadors , artists , fiddlers , monsignori , young bears with their leaders every rank and condition of man . 
, and where the princely family were entertaining their most distinguished guests at a round table at supper . 
It was just such a little select banquet as that of which Becky recollected that she had partaken at Lord Steyne's and there he sat at Polonia's table , and she saw him . 
He wore his collar and orders , his blue ribbon and garter . 
, so well known for his brilliant entomological collections , had been long absent on a mission to the Emperor of Morocco . 
That woman looks stupid and ill humoured , she thought I am sure she can't amuse him . 
No , he must be bored by her he never was by me . 
Of a Star and Garter night Lord Steyne used also to put on his grandest manner and to look and speak like a great prince , as he was . 
Becky admired him smiling sumptuously , easy , lofty , and stately . 
I wonder whether he will know me , she thought . 
Lord Steyne was talking and laughing with a great and illustrious lady at his side , when he looked up and saw Becky . 
Come away into the supper room , Mrs. R. , was that gentleman's remark seeing these nobs grubbing away has made me peckish too . 
Let's go and try the old governor's champagne . 
Becky thought the Major had had a great deal too much already . 
The day after she went to walk on the Pincian Hill the Hyde Park of the Roman idlers possibly in hopes to have another sight of Lord Steyne . 
But she met another acquaintance there it was Mr. Fiche , his lordship's confidential man , who came up nodding to her rather familiarly and putting a finger to his hat . 
I knew that Madame was here , he said I followed her from her hotel . 
I have some advice to give Madame . 
From the Marquis of Steyne ? Becky asked , resuming as much of her dignity as she could muster , and not a little agitated by hope and expectation . 
No , said the valet it is from me . 
Not at this season , Monsieur Fiche not till after Easter . 
I tell Madame it is unwholesome now . 
There is always malaria for some people . 
That cursed marsh wind kills many at all seasons . 
Look , Madame Crawley , you were always bon enfant , and I have an interest in you , parole d'honneur . 
Go away from Rome , I tell you or you will be ill and die . 
Becky laughed , though in rage and fury . 
What ! assassinate poor little me ? she said . 
How romantic ! Does my lord carry bravos for couriers , and stilettos in the fourgons ? Bah ! I will stay , if but to plague him . 
I have those who will defend me whilst I am here . 
It was Monsieur Fiche's turn to laugh now . 
Defend you , he said , and who ? The Major , the Captain , any one of those gambling men whom Madame sees would take her life for a hundred louis . 
which would send him to the galleys or worse . 
We know everything and have friends everywhere . 
We know whom you saw at Paris , and what relations you found there . 
Yes , Madame may stare , but we do . 
How was it that no minister on the Continent would receive Madame ? She has offended somebody who never forgives whose rage redoubled when he saw you . 
He was like a madman last night when he came home . 
Madame de Belladonna made him a scene about you and fired off in one of her furies . 
Oh , it was Madame de Belladonna , was it ? Becky said , relieved a little , for the information she had just got had scared her . 
No she does not matter she is always jealous . 
I tell you it was Monseigneur . 
You did wrong to show yourself to him . 
And if you stay here you will repent it . 
That was a consolation at any rate , Becky thought . 
An eloquent catalogue appeared in a weekly print , describing his virtues , his magnificence , his talents , and his good actions . 
His sensibility , his attachment to the illustrious House of Bourbon , with which he claimed an alliance , were such that he could not survive the misfortunes of his august kinsmen . 
His body was buried at Naples , and his heart that heart which always beat with every generous and noble emotion was brought back to Castle Gaunt in a silver urn . 
, found in his lordship's secretaire and claimed by his heirs from that injured woman . 
She was at home with everybody in the place , pedlars , punters , tumblers , students and all . 
Go away , said a well known voice , which made Jos thrill , I expect somebody I expect my grandpapa . 
He mustn't see you there . 
Angel Englanderinn ! bellowed the kneeling student with the whity brown ringlets and the large finger ring , do take compassion upon us . 
Dine with me and Fritz at the inn in the park . 
We will have roast pheasants and porter , plum pudding and French wine . 
We shall die if you don't . 
Newmero kattervang dooze , si vous plait , Jos said in his grandest manner , when he was able to speak . 
The gentleman from Bengal was standing , disconcerted by this incident , when the door of the opened of itself and Becky's little head peeped out full of archness and mischief . 
It's you , she said , coming out . 
How I have been waiting for you ! Stop ! not yet in one minute you shall come in . 
She led Jos by the hand into her garret . 
Come in , she said . 
Come and talk to me . 
Sit yonder on the chair and she gave the civilian's hand a little squeeze and laughingly placed him upon it . 
How little years have changed you , she said with a look of tender interest . 
I should have known you anywhere . 
Jos was surveying the queer little apartment in which he found his old flame . 
Becky thought of popping that into the bed too , but she only put in the little paper night cap with which she had put the candle out on going to sleep . 
I should have known you anywhere , she continued a woman never forgets some things . 
And you were the first man I ever I ever saw . 
Was I really ? said Jos . 
God bless my soul , you you don't say so . 
When I came with your sister from Chiswick , I was scarcely more than a child , Becky said . 
How is that , dear love ? Oh , her husband was a sad wicked man , and of course it was of me that the poor dear was jealous . 
I can't stay still in any place , but wander about always restless and unhappy . 
All my friends have been false to me all . 
There is no such thing as an honest man in the world . 
I was the truest wife that ever lived , though I married my husband out of pique , because somebody else but never mind that . 
I was true , and he trampled upon me and deserted me . 
I was the fondest mother . 
The brandy bottle inside clinked up against the plate which held the cold sausage . 
Both were moved , no doubt , by the exhibition of so much grief . 
Max and Fritz were at the door , listening with wonder to Mrs. Becky's sobs and cries . 
Jos , too , was a good deal frightened and affected at seeing his old flame in this condition . 
Her persecutions ought to be ended she ought to return to the society of which she was an ornament . 
He would see what ought to be done . 
She must quit that place and take a quiet lodging . 
Amelia must come and see her and befriend her . 
He would go and settle about it , and consult with the Major . 
She wept tears of heart felt gratitude as she parted from him , and pressed his hand as the gallant stout gentleman stooped down to kiss hers . 
And the two gentlemen were laying their heads together and consulting as to the best means of being useful to Mrs. Becky , while she was finishing her interrupted dejeuner a la fourchette . 
Let us skip over the interval in the history of her downward progress . 
She was not worse now than she had been in the days of her prosperity only a little down on her luck . 
That little devil brings mischief wherever she goes , the Major said disrespectfully . 
Why has she left her husband ? He may have been disreputable and wicked , as you say . 
I remember the confounded blackleg and the way in which he used to cheat and hoodwink poor George . 
Well , well let's ask Mrs. George , said that arch diplomatist of a Major . 
Only let us go and consult her . 
I suppose you will allow that she is a good judge at any rate , and knows what is right in such matters . 
Hm ! Emmy is very well , said Jos , who did not happen to be in love with his sister . 
Very well ? By Gad , sir , she's the finest lady I ever met in my life , bounced out the Major . 
I say at once , let us go and ask her if this woman ought to be visited or not I will be content with her verdict . 
Now this odious , artful rogue of a Major was thinking in his own mind that he was sure of his case . 
When that lady took her leave , Jos opened the business with his usual pomp of words . 
Her ! said Amelia , who is it ? Major Dobbin , if you please not to break my scissors . 
The Major was twirling them round by the little chain from which they sometimes hung to their lady's waist , and was thereby endangering his own eye . 
It is a woman whom I dislike very much , said the Major , doggedly , and whom you have no cause to love . 
It is Rebecca , I'm sure it is Rebecca , Amelia said , blushing and being very much agitated . 
You are right you always are , Dobbin answered . 
Brussels , Waterloo , old , old times , griefs , pangs , remembrances , rushed back into Amelia's gentle heart and caused a cruel agitation there . 
Don't let me see her , Emmy continued . 
I told you so , Dobbin said to Jos . 
She is very unhappy , and and that sort of thing , Jos urged . 
She is very poor and unprotected , and has been ill exceedingly ill and that scoundrel of a husband has deserted her . 
Ah ! said Amelia She hasn't a friend in the world , Jos went on , not undexterously , and she said she thought she might trust in you . 
She's so miserable , Emmy . 
She has been almost mad with grief . 
Her story quite affected me 'pon my word and honour , it did never was such a cruel persecution borne so angelically , I may say . 
Her family has been most cruel to her . 
Poor creature ! Amelia said . 
And if she can get no friend , she says she thinks she'll die , Jos proceeded in a low tremulous voice . 
This did not seem to affect Emmy . 
She even smiled a little . 
Perhaps she figured Jos to herself panting up the stair . 
She's beside herself with grief , he resumed . 
The agonies that woman has endured are quite frightful to hear of . 
She had a little boy , of the same age as Georgy . 
Yes , yes , I think I remember , Emmy remarked . 
The ruffians tore him shrieking out of her arms , and have never allowed him to see her . 
Dear Joseph , Emmy cried out , starting up at once , let us go and see her this minute . 
And she ran into her adjoining bedchamber , tied on her bonnet in a flutter , came out with her shawl on her arm , and ordered Dobbin to follow . 
He went and put her shawl it was a white cashmere , consigned to her by the Major himself from India over her shoulders . 
He saw there was nothing for it but to obey , and she put her hand into his arm , and they went away . 
Gracious lady , gracious lady ! said the landlord , knocking at Becky's door he had called her Madame the day before , and was by no means courteous to her . 
Who is it ? Becky said , putting out her head , and she gave a little scream . 
There stood Emmy in a tremble , and Dobbin , the tall Major , with his cane . 
She returned Emmy's caresses and kind speeches with something very like gratitude , and an emotion which , if it was not lasting , for a moment was almost genuine . 
That was a lucky stroke of hers about the child torn from her arms shrieking . 
And so they took your darling child from you ? our simpleton cried out . 
Oh , Rebecca , my poor dear suffering friend , I know what it is to lose a boy , and to feel for those who have lost one . 
But please Heaven yours will be restored to you , as a merciful merciful Providence has brought me back mine . 
The child , my child ? Oh , yes , my agonies were frightful , Becky owned , not perhaps without a twinge of conscience . 
It jarred upon her to be obliged to commence instantly to tell lies in reply to so much confidence and simplicity . 
But that is the misfortune of beginning with this kind of forgery . 
How old is he ? Emmy asked . 
Eleven ! cried the other . 
Grief has made me forget so many things , dearest Amelia . 
I am very much changed half wild sometimes . 
He was eleven when they took him away from me . 
Bless his sweet face I have never seen it again . 
Was he fair or dark ? went on that absurd little Emmy . 
Becky almost laughed at her simplicity . 
Poor Becky , poor Becky ! said Emmy . 
and then she began to think , as usual , how her son was the handsomest , the best , and the cleverest boy in the whole world . 
You will see my Georgy , was the best thing Emmy could think of to console Becky . 
If anything could make her comfortable that would . 
And so the two women continued talking for an hour or more , during which Becky had the opportunity of giving her new friend a full and complete version of her private history . 
The atrocious monster ! This part of her eventful history Becky gave with the utmost feminine delicacy and the most indignant virtue . 
Forced to fly her husband's roof by this insult , the coward had pursued his revenge by taking her child from her . 
And thus Becky said she was a wanderer , poor , unprotected , friendless , and wretched . 
Emmy received this story , which was told at some length , as those persons who are acquainted with her character may imagine that she would . 
She quivered with indignation at the account of the conduct of the miserable Rawdon and the unprincipled Steyne . 
Her eyes made notes of admiration for every one of the sentences in which Becky described the persecutions of her aristocratic relatives and the falling away of her husband . 
descended to the ground floor of the house and into the great room common to all the frequenters of the Elephant , out of which the stair led . 
This apartment is always in a fume of smoke and liberally sprinkled with beer . 
On a dirty table stand scores of corresponding brass candlesticks with tallow candles for the lodgers , whose keys hang up in rows . 
The pair sat down by the Major and fell into a conversation of which he could not help hearing somewhat . 
The title Englanderinn seems to be en bays de gonnoisance , said Max , who knew the French language , to Fritz , his comrade . 
After the fat grandfather went away , there came a pretty little compatriot . 
I heard them chattering and whimpering together in the little woman's chamber . 
We must take the tickets for her concert , Fritz said . 
Hast thou any money , Max ? Bah , said the other , the concert is a concert in nubibus . 
Hans said that she advertised one at Leipzig , and the Burschen took many tickets . 
But she went off without singing . 
She said in the coach yesterday that her pianist had fallen ill at Dresden . 
English ballad , called 'De Rose upon de Balgony . 
Saufen and singen go not together , observed Fritz with the red nose , who evidently preferred the former amusement . 
No , thou shalt take none of her tickets . 
She won money at the trente and quarante last night . 
I saw her she made a little English boy play for her . 
We will spend thy money there or at the theatre , or we will treat her to French wine or Cognac in the Aurelius Garden , but the tickets we will not buy . 
William was too much hurt or ashamed to ask to fathom that disgraceful mystery , although once , and evidently with remorse on his mind , George had alluded to it . 
I am glad we were marched away . 
If I drop , I hope Emmy will never know of that business . 
And so this devil is still going on with her intrigues , thought William . 
I wish she were a hundred miles from here . 
She brings mischief wherever she goes . 
, and she ordered him about , and patted him , and made him fetch and carry just as if he was a great Newfoundland dog . 
He liked , so to speak , to jump into the water if she said High , Dobbin ! and to trot behind her with her reticule in his mouth . 
This history has been written to very little purpose if the reader has not perceived that the Major was a spooney . 
Why did you not wait for me , sir , to escort me downstairs ? she said , giving a little toss of her head and a most sarcastic curtsey . 
Emmy laughed she called him a naughty man , who wanted to run away in debt , and , in fact , made some jokes suitable to the occasion and the small beer . 
She was in high spirits and good humour , and tripped across the market place very briskly . 
She wanted to see Jos that instant . 
The Major laughed at the impetuous affection Mrs. Amelia exhibited for , in truth , it was not very often that she wanted her brother that instant . 
The poor dear creature , how she has suffered ! Emmy said . 
God bless my soul , yes , Jos said , wagging his head , so that his cheeks quivered like jellies . 
She may have Payne's room , who can go upstairs , Emmy continued . 
She passed her time chiefly in grumbling , in ordering about her mistress , and in stating her intention to return the next morning to her native village of Clapham . 
She may have Payne's room , Emmy said . 
Why , you don't mean to say you are going to have that woman into the house ? bounced out the Major , jumping up . 
Of course we are , said Amelia in the most innocent way in the world . 
Don't be angry and break the furniture , Major Dobbin . 
Of course we are going to have her here . 
Of course , my dear , Jos said . 
You who are always good and kind always used to be at any rate I'm astonished at you , Major William , Amelia cried . 
Why , what is the moment to help her but when she is so miserable ? Now is the time to be of service to her . 
The oldest friend I ever had , and not She was not always your friend , Amelia , the Major said , for he was quite angry . 
To allude to THAT ! she said , when the door was closed . 
It was cruel of him . 
She went and leaned on the chest of drawers over which the picture hung , and gazed and gazed at it . 
Its eyes seemed to look down on her with a reproach that deepened as she looked . 
The early dear , dear memories of that brief prime of love rushed back upon her . 
The wound which years had scarcely cicatrized bled afresh , and oh , how bitterly ! She could not bear the reproaches of the husband there before her . 
But she had private reasons of her own , and was bent upon being angry with him . 
Georgy came in from the fetes for dinner time and found four covers laid as usual but one of the places was occupied by a lady , instead of by Major Dobbin . 
Hullo ! where's Dob ? the young gentleman asked with his usual simplicity of language . 
However , the company of her friend consoled Mrs. Crawley , and she ate a very good dinner . 
During the repast , she had occasion to speak several times , when Georgy eyed her and listened to her . 
I say , said Georgy . 
What do you say ? Becky said , laughing . 
You're the lady I saw in the mask at the Rouge et Noir . 
Hush ! you little sly creature , Becky said , taking up his hand and kissing it . 
Your uncle was there too , and Mamma mustn't know . 
Oh , no not by no means , answered the little fellow . 
Tufto , Steyne , the Crawleys , and their history everything connected with Becky and her previous life passed under the record of the bitter diplomatist . 
He knew everything and a great deal besides , about all the world in a word , he made the most astounding revelations to the simple hearted Major . 
This information astonished and horrified the Major not a little . 
that Amelia should go to the Court ball that night . 
There would be the place where he should tell her . 
The Major went home , and dressed himself in his uniform , and repaired to Court , in hopes to see Mrs. Osborne . 
When he returned to his lodgings all the lights in the Sedley tenement were put out . 
He could not see her till the morning . 
I don't know what sort of a night's rest he had with this frightful secret in bed with him . 
At the earliest convenient hour in the morning he sent his servant across the way with a note , saying that he wished very particularly to speak with her . 
A message came back to say that Mrs. Osborne was exceedingly unwell and was keeping her room . 
She , too , had been awake all that night . 
She had been thinking of a thing which had agitated her mind a hundred times before . 
A hundred times on the point of yielding , she had shrunk back from a sacrifice which she felt was too much for her . 
She couldn't , in spite of his love and constancy and her own acknowledged regard , respect , and gratitude . 
They did not weigh with Emmy more than with other women . 
She had tried them wanted to make them pass could not and the pitiless little woman had found a pretext , and determined to be free . 
Rebecca , too , was in the room , and advanced to meet him with a smile and an extended hand . 
Pooh ! damn don't let us have this sort of thing ! Jos cried out , alarmed , and anxious to get rid of a scene . 
I will not have this sort of thing in my house , Jos again interposed . 
I say I will not have it and Dobbin , I beg , sir , you'll stop it . 
And he looked round , trembling and turning very red , and gave a great puff , and made for his door . 
Dear friend ! Rebecca said with angelic sweetness , do hear what Major Dobbin has to say against me . 
I will not hear it , I say , squeaked out Jos at the top of his voice , and , gathering up his dressing gown , he was gone . 
We are only two women , Amelia said . 
You can speak now , sir . 
This manner towards me is one which scarcely becomes you , Amelia , the Major answered haughtily nor I believe am I guilty of habitual harshness to women . 
It is not a pleasure to me to do the duty which I am come to do . 
Pray proceed with it quickly , if you please , Major Dobbin , said Amelia , who was more and more in a pet . 
The expression of Dobbin's face , as she spoke in this imperious manner , was not pleasant . 
A lady who is separated from her husband , who travels not under her own name , who frequents public gaming tables It was to the ball I went , cried out Becky . 
Yours is a very modest and convenient sort of calumny , Major Dobbin , Rebecca said . 
You leave me under the weight of an accusation which , after all , is unsaid . 
What is it ? Is it unfaithfulness to my husband ? I scorn it and defy anybody to prove it I defy you , I say . 
My honour is as untouched as that of the bitterest enemy who ever maligned me . 
Is it of being poor , forsaken , wretched , that you accuse me ? Yes , I am guilty of those faults , and punished for them every day . 
Let me go , Emmy . 
It is only to suppose that I have not met you , and I am no worse to day than I was yesterday . 
It is only to suppose that the night is over and the poor wanderer is on her way . 
Let me go my stay here interferes with the plans of this gentleman . 
Indeed it does , madam , said the Major . 
If I have any authority in this house Authority , none ! broke out Amelia Rebecca , you stay with me . 
I won't desert you because you have been persecuted , or insult you because because Major Dobbin chooses to do so . 
And the two women made towards the door . 
Amelia gripped her hand in reply . 
Upon my honour it is not about you that I am going to speak , Dobbin said . 
Come back , Amelia , and she came . 
Dobbin bowed to Mrs. Crawley , as he shut the door upon her . 
Amelia looked at him , leaning against the glass her face and her lips were quite white . 
I was confused when I spoke just now , the Major said after a pause , and I misused the word authority . 
You did , said Amelia with her teeth chattering . 
At least I have claims to be heard , Dobbin continued . 
It is generous to remind me of our obligations to you , the woman answered . 
The claims I mean are those left me by George's father , William said . 
Yes , and you insulted his memory . 
And I will never forgive you . 
She shot out each little sentence in a tremor of anger and emotion . 
You don't mean that , Amelia ? William said sadly . 
Reflect , afterwards when when you are at leisure , and your conscience will withdraw this accusation . 
Amelia held down her head . 
It is not that speech of yesterday , he continued , which moves you . 
That is but the pretext , Amelia , or I have loved you and watched you for fifteen years in vain . 
No , you are not worthy of the love which I have devoted to you . 
I will bargain no more I withdraw . 
I find no fault with you . 
Good bye , Amelia ! I have watched your struggle . 
We are both weary of it . 
Amelia stood scared and silent as William thus suddenly broke the chain by which she held him and declared his independence and superiority . 
He had placed himself at her feet so long that the poor little woman had been accustomed to trample upon him . 
She didn't wish to marry him , but she wished to keep him . 
She wished to give him nothing , but that he should give her all . 
It is a bargain not unfrequently levied in love . 
William's sally had quite broken and cast her down . 
HER assault was long since over and beaten back . 
Am I to understand then , that you are going away , William ? she said . 
He gave a sad laugh . 
I went once before , he said , and came back after twelve years . 
We were young then , Amelia . 
I have spent enough of my life at this play . 
It was an open move in the game , and played fairly . 
Let the ladies envy her triumph . 
At the romantic hour of dinner , Mr. Georgy made his appearance and again remarked the absence of Old Dob . 
The meal was eaten in silence by the party . 
Jos's appetite not being diminished , but Emmy taking nothing at all . 
Hullo ! said he , there's Dob's trap they are bringing it out of the court yard . 
The trap in question was a carriage which the Major had bought for six pounds sterling , and about which they used to rally him a good deal . 
Emmy gave a little start , but said nothing . 
Hullo ! Georgy continued , there's Francis coming out with the portmanteaus , and Kunz , the one eyed postilion , coming down the market with three schimmels . 
Look at his boots and yellow jacket ain't he a rum one ? Why they're putting the horses to Dob's carriage . 
Is he going anywhere ? Yes , said Emmy , he is going on a journey . 
Going on a journey and when is he coming back ? He is not coming back , answered Emmy . 
Not coming back ! cried out Georgy , jumping up . 
Stay here , sir , roared out Jos . 
Stay , Georgy , said his mother with a very sad face . 
The boy stopped , kicked about the room , jumped up and down from the window seat with his knees , and showed every symptom of uneasiness and curiosity . 
The horses were put to . 
The baggage was strapped on . 
It had been new for the campaign of Waterloo and had covered George and William after the night of Quatre Bras . 
Old Burcke , the landlord of the lodgings , came out , then Francis , with more packages final packages then Major William Burcke wanted to kiss him . 
The Major was adored by all people with whom he had to do . 
It was with difficulty he could escape from this demonstration of attachment . 
By Jove , I will go ! screamed out George . 
Give him this , said Becky , quite interested , and put a paper into the boy's hand . 
He had rushed down the stairs and flung across the street in a minute the yellow postilion was cracking his whip gently . 
William had got into the carriage , released from the embraces of his landlord . 
, and began asking him multiplied questions . 
Then he felt in his waistcoat pocket and gave him a note . 
William seized at it rather eagerly , he opened it trembling , but instantly his countenance changed , and he tore the paper in two and dropped it out of the carriage . 
He kissed Georgy on the head , and the boy got out , doubling his fists into his eyes , and with the aid of Francis . 
He lingered with his hand on the panel . 
Fort , Schwager ! The yellow postilion cracked his whip prodigiously , up sprang Francis to the box , away went the schimmels , and Dobbin with his head on his breast . 
He never looked up as they passed under Amelia's window , and Georgy , left alone in the street , burst out crying in the face of all the crowd . 
Emmy's maid heard him howling again during the night and brought him some preserved apricots to console him . 
She mingled her lamentations with his . 
All the poor , all the humble , all honest folks , all good men who knew him , loved that kind hearted and simple gentleman . 
As for Emmy , had she not done her duty ? She had her picture of George for a consolation . 
She picketed her steed , hung up her weapons , and warmed herself comfortably by his fire . 
The halt in that roving , restless life was inexpressibly soothing and pleasant to her . 
So , pleased herself , she tried with all her might to please everybody and we know that she was eminent and successful as a practitioner in the art of giving pleasure . 
As for Jos , even in that little interview in the garret at the Elephant Inn , she had found means to win back a great deal of his good will . 
In the course of a week , the civilian was her sworn slave and frantic admirer . 
He didn't go to sleep after dinner , as his custom was in the much less lively society of Amelia . 
He drove out with Becky in his open carriage . 
He asked little parties and invented festivities to do her honour . 
Tapeworm , the Charge d'Affaires , who had abused her so cruelly , came to dine with Jos , and then came every day to pay his respects to Becky . 
Poor Emmy , who was never very talkative , and more glum and silent than ever after Dobbin's departure , was quite forgotten when this superior genius made her appearance . 
The French Minister was as much charmed with her as his English rival . 
Jos's house never was so pleasant since he had a house of his own as Rebecca caused it to be . 
Emmy defended her conduct and showed that it was dictated only by the purest religious principles that a woman once , c . 
Means were easily found to win the favour of Georgy and the servants . 
Amelia's maid , it has been said , was heart and soul in favour of the generous Major . 
Her advocacy did not make Amelia angry any more than Rebecca's admiration of him . 
She made George write to him constantly and persisted in sending Mamma's kind love in a postscript . 
And as she looked at her husband's portrait of nights , it no longer reproached her perhaps she reproached it , now William was gone . 
Emmy was not very happy after her heroic sacrifice . 
She was very distraite , nervous , silent , and ill to please . 
The family had never known her so peevish . 
She grew pale and ill . 
Some books still subsisted , after Dobbin's departure , with his name written in them a German dictionary , for instance , with William Dobbin , th Reg . 
, in the fly leaf a guide book with his initials and one or two other volumes which belonged to the Major . 
, and then the mother and son used to talk about the Major in a way which even made the boy smile . 
She told him that she thought Major William was the best man in all the world the gentlest and the kindest , the bravest and the humblest . 
Did Dobbin kill the man who killed Papa ? Georgy said . 
In such colloquies the mother and the child passed a great deal of their time together . 
The artless woman had made a confidant of the boy . 
He was as much William's friend as everybody else who knew him well . 
Neither Jos nor Emmy knew this important maxim . 
It was no more torn collars now , I promise you , and faded silks trailing off at the shoulder . 
But if she did not indulge the courier did that rascal Kirsch could not be kept from the bottle , nor could he tell how much he took when he applied to it . 
He was sometimes surprised himself at the way in which Mr. Sedley's Cognac diminished . 
Well , well , this is a painful subject . 
Becky did not very likely indulge so much as she used before she entered a decorous family . 
, she took a picture with great glee , which she pinned up in her room , and to which she introduced Jos . 
It was the portrait of a gentleman in pencil , his face having the advantage of being painted up in pink . 
He was riding on an elephant away from some cocoa nut trees and a pagoda it was an Eastern scene . 
God bless my soul , it is my portrait , Jos cried out . 
It was he indeed , blooming in youth and beauty , in a nankeen jacket of the cut of . 
It was the old picture that used to hang up in Russell Square . 
I bought it , said Becky in a voice trembling with emotion I went to see if I could be of any use to my kind friends . 
I have never parted with that picture I never will . 
Won't you ? Jos cried with a look of unutterable rapture and satisfaction . 
Emmy only came in to go to bed very tired and unwell . 
He did not sleep , for a wonder , that night , any more than Amelia . 
through every day , used to favour the ladies with extracts from his paper during their breakfast . 
Every week in this paper there is a full account of military movements , in which Jos , as a man who had seen service , was especially interested . 
On one occasion he read out Arrival of the th regiment . 
The Ramchunder , East Indiaman , came into the river this morning , having on board officers , and rank and file of this gallant corps . 
Amelia had been made aware of some of these movements . 
He had left her , and she was wretched . 
The memory of his almost countless services , and lofty and affectionate regard , now presented itself to her and rebuked her day and night . 
William had spent it all out . 
He loved her no more , he thought , as he had loved her . 
That sort of regard , which he had proffered to her for so many faithful years , can't be flung down and shattered and mended so as to show no scars . 
The little heedless tyrant had so destroyed it . 
It was a fond mistake . 
I'll go into harness again , he said , and do my duty in that state of life in which it has pleased Heaven to place me . 
I will see that the buttons of the recruits are properly bright and that the sergeants make no mistakes in their accounts . 
I will dine at mess and listen to the Scotch surgeon telling his stories . 
When I am old and broken , I will go on half pay , and my old sisters shall scold me . 
I have geliebt und gelebet , as the girl in 'Wallenstein' says . 
Pay the bills and get me a cigar find out what there is at the play to night , Francis to morrow we cross by the Batavier . 
He made the above speech , whereof Francis only heard the last two lines , pacing up and down the Boompjes at Rotterdam . 
The Batavier was lying in the basin . 
He could see the place on the quarter deck where he and Emmy had sat on the happy voyage out . 
The English diplomatists went off to Teoplitz and Kissingen , their French rivals shut up their chancellerie and whisked away to their darling Boulevard de Gand . 
The Transparent reigning family took too to the waters , or retired to their hunting lodges . 
Everybody went away having any pretensions to politeness , and of course , with them , Doctor von Glauber , the Court Doctor , and his Baroness . 
Emmy did not care where she went much . 
Georgy jumped at the idea of a move . 
She had cast such an anchor in Jos now as would require a strong storm to shake . 
That incident of the picture had finished him . 
Becky took down her elephant and put it into the little box which she had had from Amelia ever so many years ago . 
Emmy also came off with her Lares her two pictures and the party , finally , were , lodged in an exceedingly dear and uncomfortable house at Ostend . 
Some of Mrs. Rawdon Crawley's acquaintances , however , acknowledged her readily enough , perhaps more readily than she would have desired . 
What can they mean ? asked Georgy , who did not like these gentlemen . 
I heard the Major say to Mrs. Crawley yesterday , 'No , no , Becky , you shan't keep the old buck to yourself . 
We must have the bones in , or , dammy , I'll split . 
What could the Major mean , Mamma ? Major ! don't call him Major ! Emmy said . 
I'm sure I can't tell what he meant . 
His presence and that of his friend inspired the little lady with intolerable terror and aversion . 
They paid her tipsy compliments they leered at her over the dinner table . 
And the Captain made her advances that filled her with sickening dismay , nor would she ever see him unless she had George by her side . 
Rebecca , to do her justice , never would let either of these men remain alone with Amelia the Major was disengaged too , and swore he would be the winner of her . 
She besought , she entreated Jos to go . 
He was slow of movement , tied to his Doctor , and perhaps to some other leading strings . 
At least Becky was not anxious to go to England . 
At last she took a great resolution made the great plunge . 
She did not come out of her room after her return from her walk . 
Becky thought it was Major Loder and the Captain who frightened her . 
She mustn't stop here , Becky reasoned with herself . 
She must go away , the silly little fool . 
She shan't marry either of these men . 
It's too bad of Loder . 
No she shall marry the bamboo cane , I'll settle it this very night . 
So Becky took a cup of tea to Amelia in her private apartment and found that lady in the company of her miniatures , and in a most melancholy and nervous condition . 
She laid down the cup of tea . 
Thank you , said Amelia . 
Listen to me , Amelia , said Becky , marching up and down the room before the other and surveying her with a sort of contemptuous kindness . 
I want to talk to you . 
You must go away from here and from the impertinences of these men . 
I won't have you harassed by them and they will insult you if you stay . 
I tell you they are rascals men fit to send to the hulks . 
Never mind how I know them . 
Jos can't protect you he is too weak and wants a protector himself . 
You are no more fit to live in the world than a baby in arms . 
You must marry , or you and your precious boy will go to ruin . 
Why , the man was weary of you , and would have jilted you , but that Dobbin forced him to keep his word . 
He owned it to me . 
He never cared for you . 
He used to sneer about you to me , time after time , and made love to me the week after he married you . 
It's false ! It's false ! Rebecca , cried out Amelia , starting up . 
He wrote that to me wanted me to run away with him gave it me under your nose , the day before he was shot and served him right ! Becky repeated . 
Emmy did not hear her she was looking at the letter . 
It was that which George had put into the bouquet and given to Becky on the night of the Duchess of Richmond's ball . 
It was as she said the foolish young man had asked her to fly . 
Emmy's head sank down , and for almost the last time in which she shall be called upon to weep in this history , she commenced that work . 
I may love him with all my heart now . 
Oh , I will , I will , if he will but let me and forgive me . 
I believe it was this feeling rushed over all the others which agitated that gentle little bosom . 
Indeed , she did not cry so much as Becky expected the other soothed and kissed her a rare mark of sympathy with Mrs. Becky . 
She treated Emmy like a child and patted her head . 
And now let us get pen and ink and write to him to come this minute , she said . 
I I wrote to him this morning , Emmy said , blushing exceedingly . 
Becky screamed with laughter Un biglietto , she sang out with Rosina , eccolo qua ! the whole house echoed with her shrill singing . 
Neither spoke much , except now and then , when the boy said a few words to his timid companion , indicative of sympathy and protection . 
I hope he won't cross in such weather , Emmy said . 
I bet ten to one he does , the boy answered . 
Look , Mother , there's the smoke of the steamer . 
It was that signal , sure enough . 
But though the steamer was under way , he might not be on board he might not have got the letter he might not choose to come . 
A hundred fears poured one over the other into the little heart , as fast as the waves on to the Dike . 
The boat followed the smoke into sight . 
Georgy had a dandy telescope and got the vessel under view in the most skilful manner . 
And he made appropriate nautical comments upon the manner of the approach of the steamer as she came nearer and nearer , dipping and rising in the water . 
The signal of an English steamer in sight went fluttering up to the mast on the pier . 
I daresay Mrs. Amelia's heart was in a similar flutter . 
Emmy tried to look through the telescope over George's shoulder , but she could make nothing of it . 
She only saw a black eclipse bobbing up and down before her eyes . 
George took the glass again and raked the vessel . 
How she does pitch ! he said . 
There goes a wave slap over her bows . 
There's only two people on deck besides the steersman . 
As for that lady , let us say what she did in the words of a favourite poet Dakruoen gelasasa . 
She was sure it was William . 
It could be no other . 
What she had said about hoping that he would not come was all hypocrisy . 
Of course he would come what could he do else but come ? She knew he would come . 
The ship came swiftly nearer and nearer . 
As they went in to meet her at the landing place at the quay , Emmy's knees trembled so that she scarcely could run . 
She would have liked to kneel down and say her prayers of thanks there . 
and in preventing her from tumbling down . 
When Emmy emerged from it , she still kept tight hold of one of William's hands , and looked up in his face . 
It was full of sadness and tender love and pity . 
She understood its reproach and hung down her head . 
It was time you sent for me , dear Amelia , he said . 
You will never go again , William ? No , never , he answered , and pressed the dear little soul once more to his heart . 
Jos wasn't up yet Becky not visible . 
Georgy ran off to see about breakfast . 
The vessel is in port . 
He has got the prize he has been trying for all his life . 
The bird has come in at last . 
There it is with its head on his shoulder , billing and cooing close up to his heart , with soft outstretched fluttering wings . 
This is what he has asked for every day and hour for eighteen years . 
This is what he pined after . 
Here it is the summit , the end the last page of the third volume . 
Particular business , she said , took her to Bruges , whither she went , and only Georgy and his uncle were present at the marriage ceremony . 
to comfort the solitary bachelor , Joseph Sedley . 
He preferred a continental life , he said , and declined to join in housekeeping with his sister and her husband . 
Emmy was very glad in her heart to think that she had written to her husband before she read or knew of that letter of George's . 
she took him on the death of his first wife , having resolved never to marry out of the regiment . 
Lady O'Dowd is also so attached to it that , she says , if anything were to happen to Mick , bedad she'd come back and marry some of 'em . 
he is the first man of his county . 
Her Ladyship still dances jigs , and insisted on standing up with the Master of the Horse at the Lord Lieutenant's last ball . 
All idea of a Peerage was out of the question , the Baronet's two seats in Parliament being lost . 
He was both out of pocket and out of spirits by that catastrophe , failed in his health , and prophesied the speedy ruin of the Empire . 
Her Ladyship was godmother to Mrs. Dobbin's child , which bore her name , and was christened by the Rev . 
A match between George and that young lady was long a favourite scheme of both the matrons , though I have heard that Miss Crawley herself inclined towards her cousin . 
Mrs. Rawdon Crawley's name was never mentioned by either family . 
There were reasons why all should be silent regarding her . 
For wherever Mr. Joseph Sedley went , she travelled likewise , and that infatuated man seemed to be entirely her slave . 
The Colonel's lawyers informed him that his brother in law had effected a heavy insurance upon his life , whence it was probable that he had been raising money to discharge debts . 
He procured prolonged leave of absence from the East India House , and indeed , his infirmities were daily increasing . 
and went to Brussels and found Jos living at one of the enormous hotels in that city . 
Mrs. Crawley , who had her carriage , gave entertainments , and lived in a very genteel manner , occupied another suite of apartments in the same hotel . 
Jos begged the Colonel to come and see him that night , when Mrs. Crawley would be at a soiree , and when they could meet alone . 
He found his brother in law in a condition of pitiable infirmity and dreadfully afraid of Rebecca , though eager in his praises of her . 
She tended him through a series of unheard of illnesses with a fidelity most admirable . 
She had been a daughter to him . 
But but oh , for God's sake , do come and live near me , and and see me sometimes , whimpered out the unfortunate man . 
The Colonel's brow darkened at this . 
We can't , Jos , he said . 
Considering the circumstances , Amelia can't visit you . 
It may be so , said the Colonel gloomily , but Emmy can't come to you . 
Be a man , Jos break off this disreputable connection . 
Come home to your family . 
We hear your affairs are involved . 
Who has told such calumnies ? All my money is placed out most advantageously . 
Mrs. Crawley that is I mean it is laid out to the best interest . 
Jos clasped his hands and cried , He would go back to India . 
He would do anything , only he must have time they mustn't say anything to Mrs. Crawley she'd she'd kill me if she knew it . 
You don't know what a terrible woman she is , the poor wretch said . 
Then , why not come away with me ? said Dobbin in reply but Jos had not the courage . 
He would see Dobbin again in the morning he must on no account say that he had been there . 
And Dobbin quitted him , full of forebodings . 
He never saw Jos more . 
Three months afterwards Joseph Sedley died at Aix la Chapelle . 
It was found that all his property had been muddled away in speculations , and was represented by valueless shares in different bubble companies . 
All his available assets were the two thousand pounds for which his life was insured , and which were left equally between his beloved sister Amelia , wife of , c . 
, and his friend and invaluable attendant during sickness , Rebecca , wife of Lieutenant Colonel Rawdon Crawley , C. B. , who was appointed administratrix . 
and dared the Company to refuse the payment . 
They invited examination , they declared that she was the object of an infamous conspiracy , which had been pursuing her all through life , and triumphed finally . 
His Excellency Colonel Rawdon Crawley died of yellow fever at Coventry Island , most deeply beloved and deplored , and six weeks before the demise of his brother , Sir Pitt . 
The estate consequently devolved upon the present Sir Rawdon Crawley , Bart . 
He , too , has declined to see his mother , to whom he makes a liberal allowance , and who , besides , appears to be very wealthy . 
Who has not ? Her life is her answer to them . 
She busies herself in works of piety . 
She goes to church , and never without a footman . 
Her name is in all the Charity Lists . 
The destitute orange girl , the neglected washerwoman , the distressed muffin man find in her a fast and generous friend . 
She is always having stalls at Fancy Fairs for the benefit of these hapless beings . 
Emmy , her children , and the Colonel , coming to London some time back , found themselves suddenly before her at one of these fairs . 
and the Colonel seizing up his little Janey , of whom he is fonder than of anything in the world fonder even than of his History of the Punjaub . 
