Scanned by Charles Keller for Tina with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
The stories in this Violet Fairy Book , as in all the others of the series , have been translated out of the popular traditional tales in a number of different languages . 
These stories are as old as anything that men have invented . 
They are narrated by naked savage women to naked savage children . 
They have been inherited by our earliest civilised ancestors , who really believed that beasts and trees and stones can talk if they choose , and behave kindly or unkindly . 
The stories are full of the oldest ideas of ages when science did not exist , and magic took the place of science . 
Who were the first authors of them nobody knows probably the first men and women . 
Eve may have told these tales to amuse Cain and Abel . 
As people grew more civilised and had kings and queens , princes and princesses , these exalted persons generally were chosen as heroes and heroines . 
Then learned men collected and printed the country people's stories , and these we have translated , to amuse children . 
This is the whole truth of the matter . 
I have said so before , and I say so again . 
But nothing will prevent children from thinking that I invented the stories , or some ladies from being of the same opinion . 
But who really invented the stories nobody knows it is all so long ago , long before reading and writing were invented . 
The first of the stories actually written down , were written in Egyptian hieroglyphs , or on Babylonian cakes of clay , three or four thousand years before our time . 
Mr. W. A. Craigie translated from the Scandinavian , 'Jasper who herded the Hares . 
Mrs. Lang did the rest . 
Some of the most interesting are from the Roumanion , and three were previously published in the late Dr . 
By the permission of his representatives these three African stories have here been abridged and simplified for children . 
The men were as dirty and ragged as gipsies , and there were besides a quantity of old women and half naked children . 
One night a peasant who was returning home from a feast wandered a little farther into the Tontlawald , and came back with the same story . 
A countless number of women and children were gathered round a huge fire , and some were seated on the ground , while others danced strange dances on the smooth grass . 
And besides all this there had once or twice been seen a little old man with a long beard creeping out of the forest , carrying a sack bigger than himself . 
The women and children ran by his side , weeping and trying to drag the sack from off his back , but he shook them off , and went on his way . 
The terrified woodcutter fled as fast as his legs would carry him , and after that neither orders nor threats would drive anybody to the enchanted moor . 
A few miles from the Tontlawald was a large village , where dwelt a peasant who had recently married a young wife . 
As not uncommonly happens in such cases , she turned the whole house upside down , and the two quarrelled and fought all day long . 
By his first wife the peasant had a daughter called Elsa , a good quiet girl , who only wanted to live in peace , but this her stepmother would not allow . 
She beat and cuffed the poor child from morning till night , but as the stepmother had the whip hand of her husband there was no remedy . 
For two years Elsa suffered all this ill treatment , when one day she went out with the other village children to pluck strawberries . 
Carelessly they wandered on , till at last they reached the edge of the Tontlawald , where the finest strawberries grew , making the grass red with their colour . 
Like the others , she heard the boy's cry , but could not make up her mind to leave the strawberries . 
'After all , what does it matter ? thought she . 
'Be quiet , said she then turning to Elsa she added 'I am so glad you did not run away with the other children . 
Stay here with me and be my friend , and we will play delightful games together , and every day we will go and gather strawberries . 
Nobody will dare to beat you if I tell them not . 
Come , let us go to my mother' and taking Elsa's hand she led her deeper into the wood , the little black dog jumping up beside them and barking with pleasure . 
Oh ! what wonders and splendours unfolded themselves before Elsa's astonished eyes ! She thought she really must be in Heaven . 
Fruit trees and bushes loaded with fruit stood before them , while birds gayer than the brightest butterfly sat in their branches and filled the air with their song . 
And the birds were not shy , but let the girls take them in their hands , and stroke their gold and silver feathers . 
You will let her stay ? The mother laughed , but said nothing , only she looked Elsa up and down sharply . 
Elsa stooped and kissed her hand , then , kneeling down , buried her face in the woman's lap , and sobbed out 'My mother has lain for many years under the ground . 
My father is still alive , but I am nothing to him , and my stepmother beats me all the day long . 
I can do nothing right , so let me , I pray you , stay with you . 
I will look after the flocks or do any work you tell me I will obey your lightest word only do not , I entreat you , send me back to her . 
She will half kill me for not having come back with the other children . 
And the woman smiled and answered , 'Well , we will see what we can do with you , and , rising , went into the house . 
Then the daughter said to Elsa , 'Fear nothing , my mother will be your friend . 
Elsa meanwhile was tossed about between hope and fear , and felt as if the girl would never come . 
At last Elsa saw her crossing the grass with a box in her hand . 
'My mother says we may play together to day , as she wants to make up her mind what to do about you . 
But I hope you will stay here always , as I can't bear you to go away . 
Two drops of water were glistening on the cloak , and these the girl shook on the ground . 
Only under their feet was a tiny dry spot . 
Then the girl placed the mussel shell on the water and took the fish scales in her hand . 
The mussel shell grew bigger and bigger , and turned into a pretty little boat , which would have held a dozen children . 
The girls stepped in , Elsa very cautiously , for which she was much laughed at by her friend , who used the fish scales for a rudder . 
The waves rocked the girls softly , as if they were lying in a cradle , and they floated on till they met other boats filled with men , singing and making merry . 
'We must sing you a song in return , said the girl , but as Elsa did not know any songs , she had to sing by herself . 
Elsa could not understand any of the men's songs , but one word , she noticed , came over and over again , and that was 'Kisika . 
Elsa asked what it meant , and the girl replied that it was her name . 
Everything round them was dry and firm , and there was no water anywhere . 
The mussel shell and the fish scales were put back in the box , and the girls went in . 
They entered a large hall , where four and twenty richly dressed women were sitting round a table , looking as if they were about to attend a wedding . 
At the head of the table sat the lady of the house in a golden chair . 
Elsa did not know which way to look , for everything that met her eyes was more beautiful than she could have dreamed possible . 
But she sat down with the rest , and ate some delicious fruit , and thought she must be in heaven . 
The guests talked softly , but their speech was strange to Elsa , and she understood nothing of what was said . 
He bowed low to the lady and then stood quietly near the door . 
'Do you see this girl ? said the lady of the house , pointing to Elsa . 
'I wish to adopt her for my daughter . 
Make me a copy of her , which we can send to her native village instead of herself . 
The old man looked Elsa all up and down , as if he was taking her measure , bowed again to the lady , and left the hall . 
After dinner the lady said kindly to Elsa , 'Kisika has begged me to let you stay with her , and you have told her you would like to live here . 
My waiting maid , who teaches Kisika all sorts of fine handiwork , shall teach you too . 
Not long after the old man came back with a mould full of clay on his shoulders , and a little covered basket in his left hand . 
He put down his mould and his basket on the ground , took up a handful of clay , and made a doll as large as life . 
'Now , he said to the lady , 'all we want is a drop of the maiden's blood . 
When she heard this Elsa grew white with horror , for she thought she was selling her soul to the evil one . 
'Do not be afraid ! the lady hastened to say 'we do not want your blood for any bad purpose , but rather to give you freedom and happiness . 
Then she took a tiny golden needle , pricked Elsa in the arm , and gave the needle to the old man , who stuck it into the heart of the doll . 
When this was done he placed the figure in the basket , promising that the next day they should all see what a beautiful piece of work he had finished . 
In her excitement she never gave a thought to the rough clothes she had worn the day before , which had disappeared as if by magic during the night . 
Who could have taken them ? Well , she was to know that by and by . 
But WE can guess that the doll had been dressed in them , which was to go back to the village in her stead . 
By the time the sun rose the doll had attained her full size , and no one could have told one girl from the other . 
Elsa started back when she met herself as she looked only yesterday . 
'You must not be frightened , said the lady , when she noticed her terror 'this clay figure can do you no harm . 
It is for your stepmother , that she may beat it instead of you . 
Let her flog it as hard as she will , it can never feel any pain . 
And if the wicked woman does not come one day to a better mind your double will be able at last to give her the punishment she deserves . 
From this moment Elsa's life was that of the ordinary happy child , who has been rocked to sleep in her babyhood in a lovely golden cradle . 
She had no cares or troubles of any sort , and every day her tasks became easier , and the years that had gone before seemed more and more like a bad dream . 
At the third blow , out sprang a large golden cock , and stood upon the stone . 
Whenever he crowed and flapped his wings the rock opened and something came out of it . 
First a long table covered with dishes ready laid for the number of persons who would be seated round it , and this flew into the house all by itself . 
After everybody had had enough , the old man struck the rock again . 
the golden cock crowed afresh , and back went dishes , table , chairs , and plates into the middle of the block . 
There they all remained , till they were joined by the old man . 
He picked up the dish in one hand , tucked the cat under his arm , told the cock to get on his shoulder , and all four vanished into the rock . 
And this wonderful stone contained not only food , but clothes and everything you could possibly want in the house . 
One day she asked Kisika why the thirteenth dish came daily to the table and was sent daily away untouched , but Kisika knew no more about it than she did . 
The girl must , however , have told her mother what Elsa had said , for a few days later she spoke to Elsa seriously 'Do not worry yourself with useless wondering . 
Greed is man's worst fault . 
'What a pity , she would often say to Elsa , 'that you have grown so big , you cannot play with me any more . 
Nine years slipped away in this manner , when one day the lady called Elsa into her room . 
Elsa was surprised at the summons , for it was unusual , and her heart sank , for she feared some evil threatened her . 
'Dearest child , she began , 'the time has come when we must part . 
'Part ? cried Elsa , burying her head in the lady's lap . 
'No , dear lady , that can never be till death parts us . 
You once opened your arms to me you cannot thrust me away now . 
'Ah , be quiet , child , replied the lady 'you do not know what I would do to make you happy . 
Now you are a woman , and I have no right to keep you here . 
You must return to the world of men , where joy awaits you . 
'Dear lady , entreated Elsa again . 
'Do not , I beseech you , send me from you . 
I want no other happiness but to live and die beside you . 
Make me your waiting maid , or set me to any work you choose , but do not cast me forth into the world . 
It would have been better if you had left me with my stepmother , than first to have brought me to heaven and then send me back to a worse place . 
'Do not talk like that , dear child , replied the lady 'you do not know all that must be done to secure your happiness , however much it costs me . 
But it has to be . 
You are only a common mortal , who will have to die one day , and you cannot stay here any longer . 
Though we have the bodies of men , we are not men at all , though it is not easy for you to understand why . 
Some day or other you will find a husband who has been made expressly for you , and will live happily with him till death separates you . 
It will be very hard for me to part from you , but it has to be , and you must make up your mind to it . 
Now let us look back a moment , and see what had been going on in Elsa's native village all these years , and how her double had fared . 
If the father ever tried to come to his daughter's help , his wife turned upon him , and things were rather worse than before . 
One day the stepmother had given the girl a frightful beating , and then threatened to kill her outright . 
His screams brought the neighbours from their cottages , but they were unable to explain how it had all come about . 
The rest of the day all was still , but no one had seen anything of the daughter . 
On the table he saw a slice of bread lying , and , being hungry , he ate it before going to sleep . 
A few days later he was placed in the grave beside his wife , but nothing more was ever heard of their daughter . 
All night long after her talk with the lady Elsa had wept and wailed her hard fate in being cast out from her home which she loved . 
The girl tried to speak , but before she could sob out her thanks the old man had touched her softly on the head three times with his silver staff . 
Then she soared high in the air , and floated up towards the clouds , as if she had really been hatched an eagle . 
For several days she flew steadily south , resting from time to time when her wings grew tired , for hunger she never felt . 
Suddenly a sharp pain quivered through her body , and she fell to the ground , pierced by an arrow . 
When Elsa recovered her senses , she found herself lying under a bush in her own proper form . 
What had befallen her , and how she got there , lay behind her like a bad dream . 
Every night , for half a year , have I dreamed , dear lady , that I should one day find you in this wood . 
And although I have passed through it hundreds of times in vain , I have never given up hope . 
To day I was going in search of a large eagle that I had shot , and instead of the eagle I have found you . 
Then he took Elsa on his horse , and rode with her to the town , where the old king received her graciously . 
And after the king's death Elsa became queen , and when she was old she told this story . 
But that was the last that was ever heard of the Tontlawald . 
'Good greeting , beardless one ! cried he . 
'Good greeting , sonny , replied the man . 
'Could I grind something here ? 'Yes , certainly ! I will finish what I am doing and then you can grind as long as you like . 
When the boy reached the second mill , and saw a second beardless man sitting there , he did not stop , and walked on till he came to a third mill . 
But this time also the beardless man had been too clever for him , and had arrived first by another road . 
When the cake was ready for baking they put it on the fire , and covered it with hot ashes , till it was cooked through . 
Let us see who can tell the biggest lie , and the one who lies the best shall have the whole cake . 
The boy , not knowing what else to do , answered , 'All right you begin . 
'In my youth , when I was an old man , we had a quantity of beehives . 
Every morning when I got up I counted them over , and it was quite easy to number the bees , but I never could reckon the hives properly . 
I traced him as far as the shore , and knew that he had crossed the sea , and that I must follow . 
When I had reached the other side I found a man had harnessed my bee to a plough , and with his help was sowing millet seed . 
That is my bee ! I shouted . 
Where did you get him from ? Brother , replied the man , if he is yours , take him . 
And he not only gave me back my bee , but a sack of millet seed into the bargain , because he had made use of my bee . 
As we were flying home over the sea one of the strings that held the bag of millet broke in two , and the sack dropped straight into the ocean . 
It was quite lost , of course , and there was no use thinking about it , and by the time we were safe back again night had come . 
I then got down from my bee , and let him loose , that he might get his supper , gave the cock some hay , and went to sleep myself . 
But when I awoke with the sun what a scene met my eyes ! During the night wolves had come and had eaten my bee . 
And honey lay ankle deep in the valley and knee deep on the hills . 
Then I began to consider how I could best collect some , to take home with me . 
And more than that , it was even cut by an invisible hand , and made into a cake . 
Ah , how vexed I was at its loss when I was safe on earth again . 
'Suddenly I remembered that my hair was very long . 
If I stood it touched the ground , although if I was sitting it only reached my ears . 
But what was I to do for a fire ? A tinder box I had , but no wood . 
But ill luck still pursued me . 
While I was sleeping a spark from the fire lighted on the hair , which was burnt up in a moment . 
In despair I threw myself on the ground , and instantly sank in it as far as my waist . 
I struggled to get out , but only fell in further so I ran to the house , seized a spade , dug myself out , and took home the holy water . 
On the way I noticed that the ripe fields were full of reapers , and suddenly the air became so frightfully hot that the men dropped down in a faint . 
When I got to the well everything was frozen hard , so in order to draw some water I had to take off my head and break the ice with it . 
I ran back to look for it , but found that meanwhile a fox which was passing by had pulled my head out of the water , and was tearing at my brains . 
With these words the boy rose , took the cake , and went home , while the beardless one remained behind to swallow his disappointment . 
THE STORY OF THREE WONDERFUL BEGGARS There once lived a merchant whose name was Mark , and whom people called 'Mark the Rich . 
'What news is there ? asked the eldest . 
'In the next village the peasant Ivan has just had his seventh son . 
What shall we name him , and what fortune shall we give him ? said the second . 
After a little more talk the three made themselves ready and crept softly away . 
Anastasia , who had heard every word , ran straight to her father , and told him all . 
He went first to the priest , and asked him about the children in his parish . 
'Yesterday , said the priest , 'a boy was born in the poorest house in the village . 
I named the unlucky little thing Vassili . 
He is the seventh son , and the eldest is only seven years old , and they hardly have a mouthful amongst them all . 
Who can be got to stand godfather to such a little beggar boy ? The merchant's heart beat fast , and his mind was full of bad thoughts about that poor little baby . 
He would be godfather himself , he said , and he ordered a fine christening feast so the child was brought and christened , and Mark was very friendly to its father . 
After the ceremony was over he took Ivan aside and said 'Look here , my friend , you are a poor man . 
How can you afford to bring up the boy ? Give him to me and I'll make something of him , and I'll give you a present of a thousand crowns . 
Is that a bargain ? Ivan scratched his head , and thought , and thought , and then he agreed . 
Mark counted out the money , wrapped the baby up in a fox skin , laid it in the sledge beside him , and drove back towards home . 
The merchants picked up the child , wrapped it up carefully , and drove on . 
When they saw Mark they told him what a strange thing they had found . 
Mark guessed at once that the child must be his godson , asked to see him , and said 'That's a nice little fellow I should like to keep him . 
If you will make him over to me , I will let you off your debt . 
The merchants were very pleased to make so good a bargain , left the child with Mark , and drove off . 
At night Mark took the child , put it in a barrel , fastened the lid tight down , and threw it into the sea . 
The barrel floated away to a great distance , and at last it floated close up to a monastery . 
The monks were just spreading out their nets to dry on the shore , when they heard the sound of crying . 
It seemed to come from the barrel which was bobbing about near the water's edge . 
The boy lived on with the monks , and grew up to be a clever , gentle , and handsome young man . 
No one could read , write , or sing better than he , and he did everything so well that the abbot made him wardrobe keeper . 
Now , it happened about this time that the merchant , Mark , came to the monastery in the course of a journey . 
The monks were very polite to him and showed him their house and church and all they had . 
When he went into the church the choir was singing , and one voice was so clear and beautiful , that he asked who it belonged to . 
He said to the abbot 'I can't tell you how much I enjoy that young man's singing . 
If he could only come to me I would make him overseer of all my business . 
As you say , he is so good and clever . 
Do spare him to me . 
I will make his fortune , and will present your monastery with twenty thousand crowns . 
The abbot hesitated a good deal , but he consulted all the other monks , and at last they decided that they ought not to stand in the way of Vassili's good fortune . 
If you don't obey my orders I shall be very angry , for this young man is a bad fellow who is sure to ruin us all if he lives . 
Vassili had a good voyage , and on landing set off on foot for Mark's home . 
Vassili handed them the letter . 
They blew on it and gave it back to him , saying 'Now go and give the letter to Mark's wife . 
You will not be forsaken . 
Vassili reached the house and gave the letter . 
When the mistress read it she could hardly believe her eyes and called for her daughter . 
In the letter was written , quite plainly 'When you receive this letter , get ready for a wedding , and let the bearer be married next day to my daughter , Anastasia . 
If you don't obey my orders I shall be very angry . 
Anastasia saw the bearer of the letter and he pleased her very much . 
They dressed Vassili in fine clothes and next day he was married to Anastasia . 
In due time , Mark returned from his travels . 
His wife , daughter , and son in law all went out to meet him . 
When Mark saw Vassili he flew into a terrible rage with his wife . 
'How dared you marry my daughter without my consent ? he asked . 
'I only carried out your orders , said she . 
It certainly was his handwriting , but by no means his wishes . 
'Well , thought he , 'you've escaped me three times , but I think I shall get the better of you now . 
And he waited a month and was very kind and pleasant to his daughter and her husband . 
Twelve years ago he built a castle on some land of mine . 
He said good bye to his young wife , who cried bitterly at parting , hung a bag of biscuits over his shoulders , and set out . 
I really cannot tell you whether the journey was long or short . 
Tell me where you are going . 
'I am going to the Serpent King to receive twelve years' rent from him . 
'When the time comes , remember me and ask the king Rotten to the roots , half dead but still green , stands the old oak . 
Is it to stand much longer on the earth ? Vassili went on further . 
He came to a river and got into the ferryboat . 
The old ferryman asked 'Are you going far , my friend ? 'I am going to the Serpent King . 
'Then think of me and say to the king For thirty years the ferryman has rowed to and fro . 
Will the tired old man have to row much longer ? 'Very well , said Vassili 'I'll ask him . 
As he stepped on it the whale said , 'Do tell me where you are going . 
'I am going to the Serpent King . 
Is he to lie there much longer ? 'I will remember , said Vassili , and he went on . 
He walked , and walked , and walked , till he came to a great green meadow . 
In the meadow stood a large and splendid castle . 
Vassili walked in , and went from one room to another astonished at all the splendour he saw . 
When he reached the last room of all , he found a beautiful girl sitting on a bed . 
The girl said 'You have not been sent here to collect rents , but for your own destruction , and that the serpent may devour you . 
She had not time to say more , when the whole castle shook , and a rustling , hissing , groaning sound was heard . 
The girl quickly pushed Vassili into a chest under the bed , locked it and whispered 'Listen to what the serpent and I talk about . 
Then she rose up to receive the Serpent King . 
The monster rushed into the room , and threw itself panting on the bed , crying 'I've flown half over the world . 
I'm tired , VERY tired , and want to sleep scratch my head . 
The beautiful girl sat down near him , stroking his hideous head , and said in a sweet coaxing voice 'You know everything in the world . 
After you left , I had such a wonderful dream . 
Is it to stand much longer on the earth ? 'It must stand till some one comes and pushes it down with his foot . 
Then it will fall , and under its roots will be found more gold and silver than even Mark the Rich has got . 
'Then I dreamt I came to a river , and the old ferryman said to me For thirty year's the ferryman has rowed to and fro . 
Will the tired old man have to row much longer ? 'That depends on himself . 
If some one gets into the boat to be ferried across , the old man has only to push the boat off , and go his way without looking back . 
The man in the boat will then have to take his place . 
Must I lie here much longer ? 'He will have to lie there till he has thrown up the twelve ships of Mark the Rich which he swallowed . 
Then he may plunge back into the sea and heal his back . 
And the Serpent King closed his eyes , turned round on his other side , and began to snore so loud that the windows rattled . 
In all haste the lovely girl helped Vassili out of the chest , and showed him part of his way back . 
He thanked her very politely , and hurried off . 
When he was on the other side Vassili said to the whale 'Throw up those twelve ships of Mark's which you swallowed three years ago . 
The great fish heaved itself up and threw up all the twelve ships and their crews . 
Then he shook himself for joy , and plunged into the sea . 
Then Vassili went on further still , and soon came to the old oak tree , pushed it with his foot , and it fell over . 
There , at the roots , was more gold and silver than even Mark the Rich had . 
And now the twelve ships which the whale had thrown up came sailing along and anchored close by . 
On the deck of the first ship stood the three beggars whom Vassili had met formerly , and they said 'Heaven has blessed you , Vassili . 
Then they vanished away and he never saw them again . 
The sailors carried all the gold and silver into the ship , and then they set sail for home with Vassili on board . 
Mark was more furious than ever . 
He had his horses harnessed and drove off himself to see the Serpent King and to complain of the way in which he had been betrayed . 
When he reached the river he sprang into the ferryboat . 
The ferryman , however , did not get in but pushed the boat off . 
Vassili led a good and happy life with his dear wife , and his kind mother in law lived with them . 
He helped the poor and fed and clothed the hungry and naked and all Mark's riches became his . 
For many years Mark has been ferrying people across the river . 
His face is wrinkled , his hair and beard are snow white , and his eyes are dim but still he rows on . 
SCHIPPEITARO It was the custom in old times that as soon as a Japanese boy reached manhood he should leave his home and roam through the land in search of adventures . 
One day a youth started off from his native village , resolved never to come back till he had done some great deed that would make his name famous . 
But adventures did not seem very plentiful just then , and he wandered about for a long time without meeting either with fierce giants or distressed damsels . 
At last he saw in the distance a wild mountain , half covered with a dense forest , and thinking that this promised well at once took the road that led to it . 
But in spite of all his efforts he could not find his way out of the forest , and he began to think he should have to pass the night there . 
He hastened quickly towards it , and curling himself up in a warm corner soon fell asleep . 
Peeping cautiously between the wooden pillars of the chapel , he saw a troop of hideous cats , dancing furiously , making the night horrible with their yells . 
The full moon lighted up the weird scene , and the young warrior gazed with astonishment , taking great care to keep still , lest he should be discovered . 
Exhausted by all that had been going on round him , he flung himself on the ground and slept till the sun rose . 
The moment he woke he felt very hungry , and began to think how he could get something to eat . 
So he got up and walked on , and before he had gone very far was lucky enough to find a little side path , where he could trace men's footsteps . 
He followed the track , and by and by came on some scattered huts , beyond which lay a village . 
The sound of her distress made him forget he was hungry , and he strode into the hut to find out for himself what was wrong . 
As he listened to this story , the young man was filled with a great longing to rescue the maiden from her dreadful fate . 
The mention of the chapel set him thinking of the scene of the previous night , and he went over all the details again in his mind . 
And they began to laugh at the question , which seemed to them so odd and useless . 
In the evening he knew that the cask would be placed in the chapel , so he hid himself there and waited . 
At midnight , when the full moon appeared above the top of the mountain , the cats again filled the chapel and shrieked and yelled and danced as before . 
But this time they had in their midst a huge black cat who seemed to be their king , and whom the young man guessed to be the Spirit of the Mountain . 
The monster looked eagerly about him , and his eyes sparkled with joy when he saw the cask . 
He bounded high into the air with delight and uttered cries of pleasure then he drew near and undid the bolts . 
Once on a time there were three princes , who had a step sister . 
One day they all set out hunting together . 
When they had gone some way through a thick wood they came on a great grey wolf with three cubs . 
Just as they were going to shoot , the wolf spoke and said , 'Do not shoot me , and I will give each of you one of my young ones . 
It will be a faithful friend to you . 
So the princes went on their way , and a little wolf followed each of them . 
Soon after they came on a lioness with three cubs . 
And she too begged them not to shoot her , and she would give each of them a cub . 
And so it happened with a fox , a hare , a boar , and a bear , till each prince had quite a following of young beasts padding along behind him . 
Towards evening they came to a clearing in the wood , where three birches grew at the crossing of three roads . 
The eldest prince took an arrow , and shot it into the trunk of one of the birch trees . 
Turning to his brothers he said 'Let each of us mark one of these trees before we part on different ways . 
'With the eldest , she answered . 
Then the brothers separated from each other , and each of them set out down a different road , followed by their beasts . 
And the step sister went with the eldest prince . 
The prince walked up to the door and knocked . 
The moment it was opened the beasts rushed in , and each seized on a robber , killed him , and dragged the body down to the cellar . 
Now , one of the robbers was not really killed , only badly wounded , but he lay quite still and pretended to be dead like the others . 
Then the prince and his step sister entered the castle and took up their abode in it . 
The next morning the prince went out hunting . 
Before leaving he told his step sister that she might go into every room in the house except into the cave where the dead robbers lay . 
But as soon as his back was turned she forgot what he had said , and having wandered through all the other rooms she went down to the cellar and opened the door . 
As soon as she looked in the robber who had only pretended to be dead sat up and said to her 'Don't be afraid . 
Do what I tell you , and I will be your friend . 
If you marry me you will be much happier with me than with your brother . 
But you must first go into the sitting room and look in the cupboard . 
There you will find three bottles . 
Then , when your brother comes back from the wood with his beasts you must go to him and say , Brother , you are very strong . 
When the brother came home , the step sister did as the robber had told her , and fastened her brother's thumbs behind his back . 
But with one wrench he set himself free , and said to her , 'Sister , that cord is not strong enough for me . 
The next day he went back to the wood with his beasts , and the robber told her that she must take a much stouter cord to bind his thumbs with . 
But again he freed himself , though not so easily as the first time , and he said to his sister 'Even that cord is not strong enough . 
The third day , on his return from the wood he consented to have his strength tested for the last time . 
So he called to her and said 'Sister , this time the cord is so strong I cannot break it . 
Come and unfasten it for me . 
But instead of coming she called to the robber , who rushed into the room brandishing a knife , with which he prepared to attack the prince . 
But the prince spoke and said 'Have patience for one minute . 
I would like before I die to blow three blasts on my hunting horn one in this room , one on the stairs , and one in the courtyard . 
So the robber consented , and the prince blew the horn . 
At the first blast , the fox , which was asleep in the cage in the courtyard , awoke , and knew that his master needed help . 
So he awoke the wolf by flicking him across the eyes with his brush . 
Then the prince turned to the step sister and said 'I will not kill you , but I will leave you here to repent . 
So saying , he called his beasts , and set out on his travels . 
When he had gone a little way he came to an inn . 
Everyone in the inn seemed so sad that he asked them what was the matter . 
'Ah , replied they , 'to day our king's daughter is to die . 
She is to be handed over to a dreadful nine headed dragon . 
Then the prince said 'Why should she die ? I am very strong , I will save her . 
And he set out to the sea shore , where the dragon was to meet the princess . 
But the prince remained , and soon he saw a movement in the water a long way off . 
As it came nearer , he knew what it was , for skimming swiftly along the waters came a monster dragon with nine heads . 
Then the prince rushed forward with his sword and killed the dragon , and the beasts tore the body in pieces . 
And she gave him a ring and half of her handkerchief . 
So they killed the prince , and left him dead on the roadside . 
And the faithful beasts came round the dead body and wept , and wondered what they should do . 
Then suddenly the wolf had an idea , and he started off into the wood , where he found an ox , which he straightway killed . 
Soon after a crow flew past , and began to peck at the dead ox . 
In a moment the fox had caught it and brought it to the lion . 
Then he set out for the town , accompanied by his faithful beasts . 
And when they reached the king's palace they found that preparations for a great feast were being made , for the princess was to marry the coachman . 
And when the king saw these tokens he knew that the prince was speaking the truth . 
So the coachman was bound in chains and thrown into prison , and the prince was married to the princess and rewarded with half the kingdom . 
One day , soon after his marriage , the prince was walking through the woods in the evening , followed by his faithful beasts . 
Darkness came on , and he lost his way , and wandered about among the trees looking for the path that would lead him back to the palace . 
As he was very tired , and the night was very dark , the prince determined not to wander further . 
So he asked the old woman if he might spend the night beside her fire . 
'Of course you may , she answered . 
'But I am afraid of your beasts . 
Let me hit them with my rod , and then I shall not be afraid of them . 
Now soon after this the prince's youngest brother came to the cross roads with the three birches , where the brothers had parted from each other when they set out on their wanderings . 
So he set out , followed by his beasts , and came to the town over which his brother had ruled , and where the princess he had married lived . 
And when he came into the town all the people were in great sorrow because their prince had disappeared . 
Then they led him to the king , and he too thought that it was his son in law . 
So the youngest prince set out to look for his brother , and he too lost his way in the wood and night overtook him . 
Then he came to the clearing among the trees , where the fire was burning and where the old woman was raking sticks and leaves into the flames . 
And he asked her if he might spend the night beside her fire , as it was too late and too dark to go back to the town . 
And she answered 'Certainly you may . 
But I am afraid of your beasts . 
May I give them a stroke with my rod , then I shall not be afraid of them . 
And he said she might , for he did not know that she was a witch . 
So she stretched out her rod , and in a moment the beasts and their master were turned into stone . 
It happened soon after that the second brother returned from his wanderings and came to the cross roads where the three birches grew . 
As he went round the trees he saw that blood poured from the cuts in the bark of two of the trees . 
Then he wept and said 'Alas ! both my brothers are dead . 
And he too set out towards the town in which his brother had ruled , and his faithful beasts followed him . 
And they led him to the king's palace , but the princess knew that he was not her husband . 
So when they were alone together she besought him to go and seek for his brother and bring him home . 
Calling his beasts round him , he set out and wandered through the woods . 
And he put his ear down to the earth , to listen if he could hear the sound of his brother's beasts . 
And it seemed to him as if he heard a faint sound far off , but he did not know from what direction it came . 
So he blew on his hunting horn and listened again . 
And again he heard the sound , and this time it seemed to come from the direction of a fire burning in the wood . 
So he went towards the fire , and there the old woman was raking sticks and leaves into the embers . 
And he asked her if he might spend the night beside her fire . 
But she told him she was afraid of his beasts , and he must first allow her to give each of them a stroke with her rod . 
But he answered her 'Certainly not . 
I am their master , and no one shall strike them but I myself . 
Give me the rod' and he touched the fox with it , and in a moment it was turned into stone . 
Then the witch was terrified , and taking a young oak tree she burnt it into white ashes , and sprinkled the ashes on the stones that stood around . 
And in a moment the two princes stood before their brother , and their beasts stood round them . 
Then the three princes set off together to the town . 
And the king did not know which was his son in law , but the princess knew which was her husband , and there were great rejoicings throughout the land . 
THE GOAT'S EARS OF THE EMPEROR TROJAN Once upon a time there lived an emperor whose name was Trojan , and he had ears like a goat . 
When the youth was taken to the emperor's bedroom , he was asked why he had come and not his master . 
The young man replied that the master was ill , and there was no one but himself who could be trusted with the honour . 
The emperor was satisfied with the answer , and sat down , and let a sheet of fine linen be put round him . 
This pleased the emperor so much that he gave him twelve ducats , and said , 'Henceforth you shall come every day to shave me . 
From this time the apprentice went regularly up to the palace , receiving each morning twelve ducats in payment . 
But after a while , his secret , which he had carefully kept , burnt within him , and he longed to tell it to somebody . 
His master saw there was something on his mind , and asked what it was . 
The youth replied that he had been tormenting himself for some months , and should never feel easy until some one shared his secret . 
Then put back the earth and come away . 
And as he said so a great burden seemed to roll off him , and he shovelled the earth carefully back and ran lightly home . 
Weeks passed away , and there sprang up in the hole an elder tree which had three stems , all as straight as poplars . 
Of course , it was not long before the whole town knew of this wonderful flute and what it said and , at last , the news reached the emperor in his palace . 
So the emperor desired his attendants to cut him a flute from the remaining stem , and , when it was ready , he ordered his chamberlain to play on it . 
But no tune could the chamberlain play , though he was the best flute player about the court nothing came but the words , 'The Emperor Trojan has goat's ears . 
Then the emperor knew that even the earth gave up its secrets , and he granted the young man his life , but he never allowed him to be his barber any more . 
THE NINE PEA HENS AND THE GOLDEN APPLES Once upon a time there stood before the palace of an emperor a golden apple tree , which blossomed and bore fruit each night . 
But every morning the fruit was gone , and the boughs were bare of blossom , without anyone being able to discover who was the thief . 
But no sooner had he lain himself down than his eyes grew heavy , and when the sunbeams roused him from his slumbers there was not an apple left on the tree . 
Next came the turn of the youngest son , who made himself a comfortable bed under the apple tree , and prepared himself to sleep . 
Towards midnight he awoke , and sat up to look at the tree . 
And behold ! the apples were beginning to ripen , and lit up the whole palace with their brightness . 
The prince , however , begged her so hard to leave him a little of the fruit that the maiden gave him two apples , one for himself and one for his father . 
Then she changed herself back into a pea hen , and the whole nine flew away . 
That evening the prince returned to the apple tree , and everything passed as before , and so it happened for several nights . 
So , when the evening came , the old woman hid herself under the tree and waited for the prince . 
Before long he arrived and laid down on his bed , and was soon fast asleep . 
Towards midnight there was a rush of wings , and the eight pea hens settled on the tree , while the ninth became a maiden , and ran to greet the prince . 
He dragged her out , and in his fury called his guards , and ordered them to put her to death as fast as possible . 
But that did no good as far as the pea hens went . 
They never came back any more , though the prince returned to the tree every night , and wept his heart out for his lost love . 
This went on for some time , till the prince could bear it no longer , and made up his mind he would search the world through for her . 
In vain his father tried to persuade him that his task was hopeless , and that other girls were to be found as beautiful as this one . 
The prince would listen to nothing , and , accompanied by only one servant , set out on his quest . 
After travelling for many days , he arrived at length before a large gate , and through the bars he could see the streets of a town , and even the palace . 
And she hastened to him , and took his hand , and drew him into the palace . 
In a few days they were married , and the prince forgot his father and his brothers , and made up his mind that he would live and die in the castle . 
One morning the empress told him that she was going to take a walk by herself , and that she would leave the keys of twelve cellars to his care . 
The prince , who was left alone in the castle , soon got tired of being by himself , and began to look about for something to amuse him . 
'What CAN there be in that twelfth cellar , he thought to himself , 'which I must not see ? And he went downstairs and unlocked the doors , one after the other . 
When he got to the twelfth he paused , but his curiosity was too much for him , and in another instant the key was turned and the cellar lay open before him . 
For months and months he wandered about , first in this direction and then in that , without finding any traces of the dragon or his captive . 
'Oh , for pity's sake , my brother , shrieked the little creature , 'help me , and put me back into the river , and I will repay you some day . 
Then he went on his way till , some miles further down the road , he found a fox caught in a trap . 
'Oh ! be a brother to me ! called the fox , 'and free me from this trap , and I will help you when you are in need . 
Pull out one of my hairs , and when you are in danger twist it in your fingers , and I will come . 
So the prince unfastened the trap , pulled out one of the fox's hairs , and continued his journey . 
And as he was going over the mountain he passed a wolf entangled in a snare , who begged to be set at liberty . 
'Only deliver me from death , he said , 'and you will never be sorry for it . 
Take a lock of my fur , and when you need me twist it in your fingers . 
And the prince undid the snare and let the wolf go . 
For a long time he walked on , without having any more adventures , till at length he met a man travelling on the same road . 
When he entered the palace , to his great joy he found his wife sitting alone in a vast hall , and they began hastily to invent plans for her escape . 
There was no time to waste , as the dragon might return directly , so they took two horses out of the stable , and rode away at lightning speed . 
Hardly were they out of sight of the palace than the dragon came home and found that his prisoner had flown . 
So the dragon ate till it was past mid day , and when he could eat no more he mounted his horse and set out after the fugitives . 
Half mad with grief , the prince rode sadly on a little further , hardly knowing what he was doing . 
Then he could bear it no longer and turned back to the palace , in spite of the dragon's threats . 
Again the empress was sitting alone , and once more they began to think of a scheme by which they could escape the dragon's power . 
Then , fearing to meet his enemy , he stole out of the castle . 
There cannot be another like it in the whole world . 
Where did you get it from ? And he answered 'The way I got it is a way which no one else can take . 
On the top of a high mountain dwells an old woman , who has in her stables twelve horses , each one more beautiful than the other . 
And in one corner is a thin , wretched looking animal whom no one would glance at a second time , but he is in reality the best of the lot . 
He is twin brother to my own horse , and can fly as high as the clouds themselves . 
But no one can ever get this horse without first serving the old woman for three whole days . 
But if he fails to keep the foal and its mother safe on any one of the three nights his head will pay . 
The next day the prince watched till the dragon left the house , and then he crept in to the empress , who told him all she had learnt from her gaoler . 
The prince at once determined to seek the old woman on the top of the mountain , and lost no time in setting out . 
'So you shall , said the old woman . 
When evening came he led the mare out of the stable and mounted her , and the colt ran behind . 
He jumped up in terror , but the mare was nowhere to be seen , and he started with a beating heart in search of her . 
He had gone some way without a single trace to guide him , when he came to a little river . 
The sight of the water brought back to his mind the fish whom he had saved from death , and he hastily drew the scale from his pocket . 
It had hardly touched his fingers when the fish appeared in the stream beside him . 
'What is it , my brother ? asked the fish anxiously . 
'The old woman's mare strayed last night , and I don't know where to look for her . 
'Oh , I can tell you that she has changed herself into a big fish , and her foal into a little one . 
But strike the water with the halter and say , Come here , O mare of the mountain witch ! and she will come . 
The prince did as he was bid , and the mare and her foal stood before him . 
Then he put the halter round her neck , and rode her home , the foal always trotting behind them . 
The old woman was at the door to receive them , and gave the prince some food while she led the mare back to the stable . 
'You should have gone among the fishes , cried the old woman , striking the animal with a stick . 
'I did go among the fishes , replied the mare 'but they are no friends of mine , for they betrayed me at once . 
'Well , go among the foxes this time , said she , and returned to the house , not knowing that the prince had overheard her . 
So when it began to grow dark the prince mounted the mare for the second time and rode into the meadows , and the foal trotted behind its mother . 
He gave a shriek of dismay , and sprang up in search of the wanderers . 
As he went he suddenly remembered the words that the old woman had said to the mare , and he drew out the fox hair and twisted it in his fingers . 
'What is it , my brother ? asked the fox , who instantly appeared before him . 
'The old witch's mare has run away from me , and I do not know where to look for her . 
He mounted and rode back , and the old woman placed food on the table , and led the mare back to the stable . 
'You should have gone to the foxes , as I told you , said she , striking the mare with a stick . 
'I did go to the foxes , replied the mare , 'but they are no friends of mine and betrayed me . 
'Well , this time you had better go to the wolves , said she , not knowing that the prince had heard all she had been saying . 
The third night the prince mounted the mare and rode her out to the meadows , with the foal trotting after . 
He tried hard to keep awake , but it was of no use , and in the morning there he was again on the log , grasping the halter . 
He started to his feet , and then stopped , for he remembered what the old woman had said , and pulled out the wolf's grey lock . 
'What is it , my brother ? asked the wolf as it stood before him . 
'The old witch's mare has run away from me , replied the prince , 'and I don't know where to find her . 
The prince did as he was bid , and as the hair touched his fingers the wolf changed back into a mare , with the foal beside her . 
'You should have gone among the wolves , said she , striking her with a stick . 
'So I did , replied the mare , 'but they are no friends of mine and betrayed me . 
The old woman made no answer , and left the stable , but the prince was at the door waiting for her . 
'I have served you well , said he , 'and now for my reward . 
'What I promised that will I perform , answered she . 
'Choose one of these twelve horses you can have which you like . 
'Give me , instead , that half starved creature in the corner , asked the prince . 
'I prefer him to all those beautiful animals . 
'You can't really mean what you say ? replied the woman . 
'Yes , I do , said the prince , and the old woman was forced to let him have his way . 
Then he mounted , and they flew straight through the air to the dragon's palace . 
The empress had been looking for him night and day , and stole out to meet him , and he swung her on to his saddle , and the horse flew off again . 
But the dragon made no reply to the horse's words , but sprang on his back and set off in chase of the fugitives . 
And the dragon's horse plunged and reared , and the dragon fell on a rock , which broke him in pieces . 
Then the empress mounted his horse , and rode back with her husband to her kingdom , over which they ruled for many years . 
THE LUTE PLAYER Once upon a time there was a king and queen who lived happily and comfortably together . 
They were very fond of each other and had nothing to worry them , but at last the king grew restless . 
He longed to go out into the world , to try his strength in battle against some enemy and to win all kinds of honour and glory . 
So he called his army together and gave orders to start for a distant country where a heathen king ruled who ill treated or tormented everyone he could lay his hands on . 
The king then gave his parting orders and wise advice to his ministers , took a tender leave of his wife , and set off with his army across the seas . 
I cannot say whether the voyage was short or long but at last he reached the country of the heathen king and marched on , defeating all who came in his way . 
He was carried off to the prison where the heathen king kept his captives , and now our poor friend had a very bad time indeed . 
All night long the prisoners were chained up , and in the morning they were yoked together like oxen and had to plough the land till it grew dark . 
If I were to send one of the ministers ! but I hardly know if I can depend on them . 
She thought , and thought , and at last an idea came into her head . 
She cut off all her beautiful long brown hair and dressed herself in boy's clothes . 
Then she took her lute and , without saying anything to anyone , she went forth into the wide world . 
She travelled through many lands and saw many cities , and went through many hardships before she got to the town where the heathen king lived . 
When she got there she walked all round the palace and at the back she saw the prison . 
'Oh ! who will thank me for my song , Reward my simple lay ? Like lover's sighs it still shall rise To greet thee day by day . 
'I sing of blooming flowers Made sweet by sun and rain Of all the bliss of love's first kiss , And parting's cruel pain . 
'Of the sad captive's longing Within his prison wall , Of hearts that sigh when none are nigh To answer to their call . 
'My song begs for your pity , And gifts from out your store , And as I play my gentle lay I linger near your door . 
'And if you hear my singing Within your palace , sire , Oh ! give , I pray , this happy day , To me my heart's desire . 
No sooner had the heathen king heard this touching song sung by such a lovely voice , than he had the singer brought before him . 
'Welcome , O lute player , said he . 
'Where do you come from ? 'My country , sire , is far away across many seas . 
For years I have been wandering about the world and gaining my living by my music . 
'Stay here then a few days , and when you wish to leave I will give you what you ask for in your song your heart's desire . 
He cared for nothing but the music , and nodded his head as he declared , 'That's something like playing and singing . 
It makes me feel as if some gentle hand had lifted every care and sorrow from me . 
After three days the lute player came to take leave of the king . 
'Well , said the king , 'what do you desire as your reward ? 'Sire , give me one of your prisoners . 
You have so many in your prison , and I should be glad of a companion on my journeys . 
When I hear his happy voice as I travel along I shall think of you and thank you . 
'Come along then , said the king , 'choose whom you will . 
And he took the lute player through the prison himself . 
The queen walked about amongst the prisoners , and at length she picked out her husband and took him with her on her journey . 
They were long on their way , but he never found out who she was , and she led him nearer and nearer to his own country . 
When they reached the frontier the prisoner said 'Let me go now , kind lad I am no common prisoner , but the king of this country . 
Let me go free and ask what you will as your reward . 
'Do not speak of reward , answered the lute player . 
'Then come with me , dear boy , and be my guest . 
'When the proper time comes I shall be at your palace , was the reply , and so they parted . 
The queen took a short way home , got there before the king and changed her dress . 
An hour later all the people in the palace were running to and fro and crying out 'Our king has come back ! Our king has returned to us . 
The king greeted every one very kindly , but he would not so much as look at the queen . 
Then he called all his council and ministers together and said to them 'See what sort of a wife I have . 
Here she is falling on my neck , but when I was pining in prison and sent her word of it she did nothing to help me . 
And his council answered with one voice , 'Sire , when news was brought from you the queen disappeared and no one knew where she went . 
She only returned to day . 
Then the king was very angry and cried , 'Judge my faithless wife ! Never would you have seen your king again , if a young lute player had not delivered him . 
I shall remember him with love and gratitude as long as I live . 
Whilst the king was sitting with his council , the queen found time to disguise herself . 
'My song begs for your pity , And gifts from out your store , And as I play my gentle lay I linger near your door . 
'And if you hear my singing Within your palace , sire , Oh ! give , I pray , this happy day , To me my heart's desire . 
As soon as the king heard this song he ran out to meet the lute player , took him by the hand and led him into the palace . 
'Here , he cried , 'is the boy who released me from my prison . 
And now , my true friend , I will indeed give you your heart's desire . 
'I am sure you will not be less generous than the heathen king was , sire . 
I ask of you what I asked and obtained from him . 
But this time I don't mean to give up what I get . 
I want YOU yourself ! And as she spoke she threw off her long cloak and everyone saw it was the queen . 
I was there too , and ate and drank many good things . 
I sha'n't forget that feast as long as I live . 
THE GRATEFUL PRINCE Once upon a time the king of the Goldland lost himself in a forest , and try as he would he could not find the way out . 
As he was wandering down one path which had looked at first more hopeful than the rest he saw a man coming towards him . 
'What are you doing here , friend ? asked the stranger 'darkness is falling fast , and soon the wild beasts will come from their lairs to seek for food . 
'I have lost myself , answered the king , 'and am trying to get home . 
'Then promise me that you will give me the first thing that comes out of your house , and I will show you the way , said the stranger . 
The king did not answer directly , but after awhile he spoke 'Why should I give away my BEST sporting dog . 
I can surely find my way out of the forest as well as this man . 
So the stranger left him , but the king followed path after path for three whole days , with no better success than before . 
He was almost in despair , when the stranger suddenly appeared , blocking up his way . 
'Promise you will give me the first thing that comes out of your house to meet you ? But still the king was stiff necked and would promise nothing . 
'Well , my life is worth more than a thousand dogs , answered the king , 'the welfare of my kingdom depends on me . 
I accept your terms , so take me to my palace . 
Scarcely had he uttered the words than he found himself at the edge of the wood , with the palace in the dim distance . 
He made all the haste he could , and just as he reached the great gates out came the nurse with the royal baby , who stretched out his arms to his father . 
The king shrank back , and ordered the nurse to take the baby away at once . 
Then his great boarhound bounded up to him , but his caresses were only answered by a violent push . 
At the end of a year , the stranger arrived to claim his property , and took away the little girl , believing her to be the true child of the king . 
But he did not dare to bring back the baby , lest the trick should be found out . 
The peasants were quite contented with this arrangement , which gave them food and money in abundance . 
By and by the boy grew big and tall , and seemed to lead a happy life in the house of his foster parents . 
And the prince determined that when he grew old enough he would travel all over the world , and never rest till he had set her free . 
To become king at the cost of a maiden's life was too heavy a price to pay . 
He nodded cheerfully to the prince , and said 'I know this place well , and can lead you out of it , if you will promise me a good reward . 
'What can a beggar such as I promise you ? answered the prince . 
'I have nothing to give you save my life even the coat on my back belongs to my master , whom I serve for my keep and my clothes . 
The stranger looked at the sack of peas , and said , 'But you must possess something you are carrying this sack , which seems to be very heavy . 
'It is full of peas , was the reply . 
'My old aunt died last night , without leaving money enough to buy peas to give the watchers , as is the custom throughout the country . 
I have borrowed these peas from my master , and thought to take a short cut across the forest but I have lost myself , as you see . 
'Then you are an orphan ? asked the stranger . 
'Why should you not enter my service ? I want a sharp fellow in the house , and you please me . 
'Why not , indeed , if we can strike a bargain ? said the other . 
'I shall be satisfied with that , said the youth . 
'Somebody else will have to bury my aunt . 
Then he set out with his companion , and chattered so fast that he never noticed that his new servant kept dropping peas out of the sack . 
At night they slept under a fig tree , and when the sun rose started on their way . 
Suddenly there appeared under the stone a secret door , which led to what looked like the mouth of a cave . 
After a long while he thought he saw a glimmer of light , but the light was neither that of the sun nor of the moon . 
He looked eagerly at it , but found it was only a kind of pale cloud , which was all the light this strange underworld could boast . 
Not a rustle or a sound could be heard . 
Here and there he noticed a bird sitting on a branch , with head erect and swelling throat , but his ear caught nothing . 
The dogs opened their mouths as if to bark , the toiling oxen seemed about to bellow , but neither bark nor bellow reached the prince . 
The water flowed noiselessly over the pebbles , the wind bowed the tops of the trees , flies and chafers darted about , without breaking the silence . 
The old greybeard uttered no word , and when his companion tried to ask him the meaning of it all he felt that his voice died in his throat . 
It sounded as if a troop of horses were ploughing their way over a moor . 
Then the greybeard opened his mouth , and said 'The kettle is boiling we are expected at home . 
They reached it at last , and found an empty kennel standing in front of the gate . 
'Creep inside this , said the master , 'and wait while I go in and see my grandmother . 
Like all very old people , she is very obstinate , and cannot bear fresh faces about her . 
The prince crept tremblingly into the kennel , and began to regret the daring which had brought him into this scrape . 
By and by the master came back , and called him from his hiding place . 
Keep your eyes and ears open , and your mouth shut , obey without questions . 
Be grateful if you will , but never speak unless you are spoken to . 
When the prince stepped over the threshold he caught sight of a maiden of wonderful beauty , with brown eyes and fair curly hair . 
'Well ! the young man said to himself , 'if the old fellow has many daughters like that I should not mind being his son in law . 
Then she took out a needle and thread , and began to darn her stockings . 
The master sat at table alone , and invited neither his new servant nor the maid to eat with him . 
Neither was the old grandmother anywhere to be seen . 
His appetite was tremendous he soon cleared all the dishes , and ate enough to satisfy a dozen men . 
During the meal he stole many glances at the maiden , and would even have spoken to her , but she gave him no encouragement . 
Every time he opened his mouth for the purpose she looked at him sternly , as if to say , 'Silence , so he could only let his eyes speak for him . 
Besides , the master was stretched on a bench by the oven after his huge meal , and would have heard everything . 
After supper that night , the old man said to the prince , 'For two days you may rest from the fatigues of the journey , and look about the house . 
But the day after to morrow you must come with me , and I will point out the work you have to do . 
The maid will show you where you are to sleep . 
The girl made a sign to him to follow her , and , throwing open a door , nodded to him to go in . 
He would have lingered a moment , for he thought she looked sad , but dared not do so , for fear of the old man's anger . 
'It is impossible that she can be his daughter ! he said to himself , 'for she has a kind heart . 
I am quite sure she must be the same girl who was brought here instead of me , so I am bound to risk my head in this mad adventure . 
He got into bed , but it was long before he fell asleep , and even then his dreams gave him no rest . 
He seemed to be surrounded by dangers , and it was only the power of the maiden who helped him through it all . 
When he woke his first thoughts were for the girl , whom he found hard at work . 
In the afternoon he went out , in order to learn something of his new home , and wondered greatly not to come across the old grandmother . 
On the evening of the second day he went , as he had been told , to receive his orders for the following morning . 
'I am going to set you something very easy to do to morrow , said the old man when his servant entered . 
'Take this scythe and cut as much grass as the white horse will want for its day's feed , and clean out its stall . 
If I come back and find the manger empty it will go ill with you . 
How , then , do you expect to do it all by yourself ? But listen to me , and do what I tell you . 
It is your only chance . 
Early the next morning he set to work . 
His scythe danced through the grass much more easily than he had hoped , and soon he had enough to fill the manger . 
He put it in the crib , and returned with a second supply , when to his horror he found the crib empty . 
Then he knew that without the maiden's advice he would certainly have been lost , and began to put it into practice . 
He took out the rushes which had somehow got mixed up with the hay , and plaited them quickly . 
'My son , what are you doing ? asked the horse wonderingly . 
'Oh , nothing ! replied he . 
He had barely finished when in walked the old man , who stood astonished at the door . 
'Is it really you who have been clever enough to do that ? he asked . 
'Or has some one else given you a hint ? 'Oh , I have had no help , replied the prince , 'except what my poor weak head could give me . 
The old man frowned , and went away , and the prince rejoiced that everything had turned out so well . 
But take care you milk her dry , or it may be the worse for you . 
'Well , thought the prince as he went away , 'unless there is some trick behind , this does not sound very hard . 
I have never milked a cow before , but I have good strong fingers . 
'Oh , you are unlucky , cried she . 
'If you were to try from morning till night you couldn't do it . 
Place the pan on the floor of the stall , and the tongs on the fire , and blow with all your might , till the coals burn brightly . 
The black cow will ask you what is the meaning of all this , and you must answer what I will whisper to you . 
And she stood on tip toe and whispered something in his ear , and then went away . 
The cow sighed deeply , and looked at the milkman with fear , but he took no notice , and milked briskly into the pail , till the cow ran dry . 
Just at that moment the old man entered the stable , and sat down to milk the cow himself , but not a drop of milk could he get . 
'Have you really managed it all yourself , or did somebody help you ? 'I have nobody to help me , answered the prince , 'but my own poor head . 
The old man got up from his seat and went away . 
To morrow you will have to stack it all in the shed , and , as you value your life , be careful not to leave the smallest strand behind . 
The prince was overjoyed to hear he had nothing worse to do . 
'To carry a little hay rick requires no great skill , thought he , 'and it will give me no trouble , for the horse will have to draw it in . 
I am certainly not going to spare the old grandmother . 
By and by the maiden stole up to ask what task he had for the next day . 
The young man laughed , and said 'It appears that I have got to learn all kinds of farmer's work . 
If you had all the men in the world to help you , you could not clear off this one little hay rick in a week . 
The instant you have thrown down the hay at the top , it will take root again from below . 
But listen to what I say . 
You must steal out at daybreak to morrow and bring out the white horse and some good strong ropes . 
Then get on the hay stack , put the ropes round it , and harness the horse to the ropes . 
When you are ready , climb up the hay stack and begin to count one , two , three . 
The horse will ask you what you are counting , and you must be sure to answer what I whisper to you . 
So the maiden whispered something in his ear , and left the room . 
And the prince knew nothing better to do than to get into bed . 
He slept soundly , and it was still almost dark when he got up and proceeded to carry out the instructions given him by the girl . 
The master was dumb with surprise as he came in after breakfast and found his man's day's work quite done . 
'Was it really you who were so clever ? asked he . 
Late in the evening the prince went to his master to learn what he was to do next day . 
The prince answered nothing , but thought , 'Well , most peasants of nineteen have got a whole herd to look after , so surely I can manage one . 
And he went towards his room , where the maiden met him . 
'To morrow I have got an idiot's work , said he 'nothing but to take the white headed calf to the meadow . 
'Oh , you unlucky being ! sighed she . 
'Do you know that this calf is so swift that in a single day he can run three times round the world ? Take heed to what I tell you . 
After this the prince went to bed and slept soundly . 
The young man wondered at this strange freak , and went laughing in search of the maiden . 
'Ah , it is no laughing matter , sighed she . 
'He means to eat you , and there is only one way in which I can help you . 
You must heat an iron shovel red hot , and hold it out to him instead of your hand . 
So next morning he wakened very early , and had heated the shovel before the old man was awake . 
At length he heard him calling , 'You lazy fellow , where are you ? Come and wish me good morning . 
But when the prince entered with the red hot shovel his master only said , 'I am very ill to day , and too weak even to touch your hand . 
You must return this evening , when I may be better . 
The prince loitered about all day , and in the evening went back to the old man's room . 
He was received in the most friendly manner , and , to his surprise , his master exclaimed , 'I am very well satisfied with you . 
Come to me at dawn and bring the maiden with you . 
I know you have long loved each other , and I wish to make you man and wife . 
The young man nearly jumped into the air for joy , but , remembering the rules of the house , he managed to keep still . 
When he told the maiden , he saw to his astonishment that she had become as white as a sheet , and she was quite dumb . 
'The old man has found out who was your counsellor , she said when she could speak , 'and he means to destroy us both . 
We must escape somehow , or else we shall be lost . 
Take an axe , and cut off the head of the calf with one blow . 
With a second , split its head in two , and in its brain you will see a bright red ball . 
Meanwhile , I will do what is needful here . 
And the prince thought to himself , 'Better kill the calf than be killed ourselves . 
If we can once escape , we will go back home . 
The peas which I strewed about must have sprouted , so that we shall not miss the way . 
Then he went into the stall , and with one blow of the axe killed the calf , and with the second split its brain . 
In an instant the place was filled with light , as the red ball fell from the brain of the calf . 
The prince picked it up , and , wrapping it round with a thick cloth , hid it in his bosom . 
Mercifully , the cow slept through it all , or by her cries she would have awakened the master . 
He looked round , and at the door stood the maiden , holding a little bundle in her arms . 
'Where is the ball ? she asked . 
'We must lose no time in escaping , she went on , and uncovered a tiny bit of the shining ball , to light them on their way . 
As the prince had expected the peas had taken root , and grown into a little hedge , so that they were sure they would not lose the path . 
The prince , who knew all about the affair , was silent , though he was glad from his heart that it had fallen to his lot to set her free . 
So they went on till the day began to dawn . 
The old man slept very late that morning , and rubbed his eyes till he was properly awake . 
Then he remembered that very soon the couple were to present themselves before him . 
At last he jumped angrily out of bed to go in search of the culprits , but only found an empty house , and beds that had never been slept in . 
Then he went straight to the stable , where the sight of the dead calf told him all . 
Swearing loudly , he opened the door of the third stall quickly , and cried to his goblin servants to go and chase the fugitives . 
'Bring them to me , however you may find them , for have them I must ! he said . 
So spake the old man , and the servants fled like the wind . 
The runaways were crossing a great plain , when the maiden stopped . 
'Something has happened ! she said . 
'The ball moves in my hand , and I'm sure we are being followed ! and behind them they saw a black cloud flying before the wind . 
Then the maiden turned the ball thrice in her hand , and cried , 'Listen to me , my ball , my ball . 
Be quick and change me into a brook , And my lover into a little fish . 
And in an instant there was a brook with a fish swimming in it . 
The goblins arrived just after , but , seeing nobody , waited for a little , then hurried home , leaving the brook and the fish undisturbed . 
When they were quite out of sight , the brook and the fish returned to their usual shapes and proceeded on their journey . 
When the goblins , tired and with empty hands , returned , their master inquired what they had seen , and if nothing strange had befallen them . 
'Nothing , said they 'the plain was quite empty , save for a brook and a fish swimming in it . 
And the goblins jumped up , and flew like the wind . 
The young pair had almost reached the edge of the wood , when the maiden stopped again . 
'Something has happened , said she . 
'The ball is moving in my hand , and looking round she beheld a cloud flying towards them , large and blacker than the first , and striped with red . 
'Those are our pursuers , cried she , and turning the ball three times in her hand she spoke to it thus 'Listen to me , my ball , my ball . 
Be quick and change us both . 
Me into a wild rose bush , And him into a rose on my stem . 
And in the twinkling of an eye it was done . 
Only just in time too , for the goblins were close at hand , and looked round eagerly for the stream and the fish . 
But neither stream nor fish was to be seen nothing but a rose bush . 
'Well , did you find them ? asked the old man when his goblins came back . 
'No , replied the leader of the goblins , 'we found neither brook nor fish in the desert . 
'And did you find nothing else at all ? 'Oh , nothing but a rose tree on the edge of a wood , with a rose hanging on it . 
'Why , that was they . 
And he threw open the door of the seventh stall , where his mightiest goblins were locked in . 
Suddenly the maiden looked up . 
'Something has happened , said she . 
'The ball has nearly jumped out of my bosom ! Some one is certainly following us , and the danger is near , but the trees hide our enemies from us . 
As she spoke she took the ball in her hand , and said 'Listen to me , my ball , my ball . 
Be quick and change me into a breeze , And make my lover into a midge . 
An instant , and the girl was dissolved into thin air , while the prince darted about like a midge . 
The next moment a crowd of goblins rushed up , and looked about in search of something strange , for neither a rose bush nor anything else was to be seen . 
But they had hardly turned their backs to go home empty handed when the prince and the maiden stood on the earth again . 
'We must make all the haste we can , said she , 'before the old man himself comes to seek us , for he will know us under any disguise . 
Worn out and breathless , they came at length to a large stone , and here the ball began to move restlessly . 
The maiden , seeing this , exclaimed 'Listen to me , my ball , my ball . 
Roll the stone quickly to one side , That we may find a door . 
And in a moment the stone had rolled away , and they had passed through the door to the world again . 
'Now we are safe , cried she . 
'Here the old wizard has no more power over us , and we can guard ourselves from his spells . 
But , my friend , we have to part ! You will return to your parents , and I must go in search of mine . 
'No ! no ! exclaimed the prince . 
'I will never part from you . 
You must come with me and be my wife . 
We have gone through many troubles together , and now we will share our joys . 
The maiden resisted his words for some time , but at last she went with him . 
She herself stayed behind in a peasant's hut , so that father and son might meet alone . 
The prince wept bitterly when he heard this news , for he had loved his father well , and for three days he ate and drank nothing . 
And the councillors cried with one voice , 'Let her be your wife , and our liege lady . 
And that is the end of the story . 
THE CHILD WHO CAME FROM AN EGG Once upon a time there lived a queen whose heart was sore because she had no children . 
She was sad enough when her husband was at home with her , but when he was away she would see nobody , but sat and wept all day long . 
Now it happened that a war broke out with the king of a neighbouring country , and the queen was left in the palace alone . 
The queen looked at her doubtfully , and answered 'You do not seem as if you had been very lucky yourself , or to have much good fortune to spare for anyone else . 
'Under rough bark lies smooth wood and sweet kernel , replied the old woman . 
'Let me see your hand , that I may read the future . 
The queen held out her hand , and the old woman examined its lines closely . 
Then she said , 'Your heart is heavy with two sorrows , one old and one new . 
The new sorrow is for your husband , who is fighting far away from you but , believe me , he is well , and will soon bring you joyful news . 
But your other sorrow is much older than this . 
Your happiness is spoilt because you have no children . 
'But who are you ? asked the queen , 'for you seem to be able to read my heart . 
'Never mind my name , answered she , 'but rejoice that it is permitted to me to show you a way to lessen your grief . 
You must , however , promise to do exactly what I tell you , if any good is to come of it . 
'Oh , I will obey you exactly , cried the queen , 'and if you can help me you shall have in return anything you ask for . 
She held it out to the queen , saying , 'In the basket you will find a bird's egg . 
This you must be careful to keep in a warm place for three months , when it will turn into a doll . 
Then you will have a baby of your own , and you must put it by the side of the other child , and bring your husband to see his son and daughter . 
The boy you will bring up yourself , but you must entrust the little girl to a nurse . 
When the time comes to have them christened you will invite me to be godmother to the princess , and this is how you must send the invitation . 
A fortnight after the old woman had paid her visit , the king came home , having conquered his enemies . 
At this proof that the old woman had spoken truth , the queen's heart bounded , for she now had fresh hopes that the rest of the prophecy might be fulfilled . 
Three months passed , and , as the old woman had bidden her , the queen took the egg from her bosom , and laid it snugly amidst the warm woollen folds . 
The next morning she went to look at it , and the first thing she saw was the broken eggshell , and a little doll lying among the pieces . 
Next she sent for the king , who nearly went mad with joy at the sight of the children . 
The boy was called Willem . 
As long as you do that , no evil can come to her so guard this treasure as the apple of your eye , and teach your daughter to do so likewise . 
Then , kissing the baby three times , she mounted her coach and drove away . 
The children throve well , and Dotterine's nurse loved her as if she were the baby's real mother . 
At length she told the queen what she had seen , but they determined to keep it as a secret between themselves . 
The twins were by this time nearly two years old , when the queen was taken suddenly ill . 
All the best doctors in the country were sent for , but it was no use , for there is no cure for death . 
The queen knew she was dying , and sent for Dotterine and her nurse , who had now become her lady in waiting . 
To her , as her most faithful servant , she gave the lucky basket in charge , and besought her to treasure it carefully . 
About my son , I have no fears . 
He is the heir of the kingdom , and his father will look after him . 
The lady in waiting promised to carry out the queen's directions , and above all to keep the affair a secret . 
And that same morning the queen died . 
After some years the king married again , but he did not love his second wife as he had done his first , and had only married her for reasons of ambition . 
She hated her step children , and the king , seeing this , kept them out of the way , under the care of Dotterine's old nurse . 
But if they ever strayed across the path of the queen , she would kick them out of her sight like dogs . 
Two more years slipped by , when one day during the king's absence the stepmother found Dotterine sitting under a lime tree . 
She fell as usual into a passion , and beat the child so badly that Dotterine went staggering to her own room . 
Her nurse was not there , but suddenly , as she stood weeping , her eyes fell upon the golden case in which lay the precious basket . 
She thought it might contain something to amuse her , and looked eagerly inside , but nothing was there save a handful of wool and two empty eggshells . 
Very much disappointed , she lifted the wool , and there lay the goose's wing . 
'What old rubbish , said the child to herself , and , turning , threw the wing out of the open window . 
In a moment a beautiful lady stood beside her . 
'Do not be afraid , said the lady , stroking Dotterine's head . 
'I am your godmother , and have come to pay you a visit . 
Your red eyes tell me that you are unhappy . 
I know that your stepmother is very unkind to you , but be brave and patient , and better days will come . 
Now come into the garden , that I may talk to you under the lime trees , where no one can hear us . 
'Hand me the basket , said she , 'for you must have some supper . 
I cannot let you go hungry to bed . 
Then , bending over the basket , she whispered some magic words , and instantly a table covered with fruits and cakes stood on the ground before them . 
In a few years more , Dotterine was a grown up young lady , and those who saw her thought that the world did not contain so lovely a girl . 
It lasted so long that food began to fail , and even in the palace there was not enough to eat . 
So one morning Dotterine , who had had neither supper nor breakfast , and was feeling very hungry , let her wing fly away . 
She was so weak and miserable , that directly her godmother appeared she burst into tears , and could not speak for some time . 
'Do not cry so , dear child , said the godmother . 
'I will carry you away from all this , but the others I must leave to take their chance . 
Then , bidding Dotterine follow her , she passed through the gates of the town , and through the army outside , and nobody stopped them , or seemed to see them . 
The next day the town surrendered , and the king and all his courtiers were taken prisoners , but in the confusion his son managed to make his escape . 
The queen had already met her death from a spear carelessly thrown . 
But you will have to endure a little longer yet . 
Then , warning her once more to take care of the basket , the lady bade the girl farewell . 
At first the work she had to do seemed very difficult , but either she was wonderfully quick in learning , or else the basket may have secretly helped her . 
Anyhow at the end of three days she could do everything as well as if she had cleaned pots and swept rooms all her life . 
One morning Dotterine was busy scouring a wooden tub , when a noble lady happened to pass through the village . 
The girl's bright face as she stood in the front of the door with her tub attracted the lady , and she stopped and called the girl to come and speak to her . 
'Would you not like to come and enter my service ? she asked . 
'Very much , replied Dotterine , 'if my present mistress will allow me . 
'Oh , I will settle that , answered the lady and so she did , and the same day they set out for the lady's house , Dotterine sitting beside the coachman . 
The girl wept bitterly for his loss , but in secrecy , as she had told her mistress nothing about her past life . 
Nobody will be so fine as you . 
Then she seemed to hear a voice whisper to her , 'Look in your basket , and you will find in it everything that you need . 
She put it on with fingers that trembled with joy , and , looking in the glass , was struck dumb at her own beauty . 
She went downstairs , and in front of the door stood a fine carriage , into which she stepped and was driven away like the wind . 
The king's palace was a long way off , yet it seemed only a few minutes before Dotterine drew up at the great gates . 
She was just going to alight , when she suddenly remembered she had left her basket behind her . 
And at midnight a strange thing happened . 
A thick cloud suddenly filled the hall , so that for a moment all was dark . 
Then the mist suddenly grew bright , and Dotterine's godmother was seen standing there . 
'This , she said , turning to the king , 'is the girl whom you have always believed to be your sister , and who vanished during the siege . 
STAN BOLOVAN Once upon a time what happened did happen , and if it had not happened this story would never have been told . 
In the house lived a man who had a wife , and the wife was sad all day long . 
'Dear wife , what is wrong with you that you hang your head like a drooping rosebud ? asked her husband one morning . 
He could not , however , forget all about it , and a few days after he inquired again the reason of her sadness , but only got the same reply . 
At length he felt he could bear it no longer , and tried a third time , and then his wife turned and answered him . 
'Good gracious ! cried she , 'why cannot you let things be as they are ? If I were to tell you , you would become just as wretched as myself . 
If you would only believe , it is far better for you to know nothing . 
But no man yet was ever content with such an answer . 
The more you beg him not to inquire , the greater is his curiosity to learn the whole . 
'Well , if you MUST know , said the wife at last , 'I will tell you . 
Then Stan understood , and when a man once understands and has his eyes opened it is no longer well with him . 
From that day the little house in the outskirts contained an unhappy man as well as an unhappy woman . 
And at the sight of her husband's misery the woman became more wretched than ever . 
And so matters went on for some time . 
Some weeks had passed , and Stan thought he would consult a wise man who lived a day's journey from his own house . 
The wise man was sitting before his door when he came up , and Stan fell on his knees before him . 
'Give me children , my lord , give me children . 
'Take care what you are asking , replied the wise man . 
He reached home that evening tired and dusty , but with hope in his heart . 
As he drew near his house a sound of voices struck upon his ear , and he looked up to see the whole place full of children . 
Children in the garden , children in the yard , children looking out of every window it seemed to the man as if all the children in the world must be gathered there . 
'Good gracious ! how many there are ! how many ! he muttered to himself . 
'Oh , but not one too many , smiled his wife , coming up with a crowd more children clinging to her skirts . 
The cow had ceased to give milk , and it was too early for the fruit trees to ripen . 
To the hungry man any road is long , and then there was always the thought that he had to satisfy a hundred greedy children as well as himself . 
In the shadow of some trees lay the rest of the flock . 
And besides these he took the milk of seventy seven sheep , and carried it home to his old mother , that she might bathe in it and grow young again . 
And this happened every night . 
The shepherd bewailed himself in vain the dragon only laughed , and Stan saw that this was not the place to get food for his family . 
However , that matter could be settled later . 
At present night was not far off , and he must consider how best to fight with the dragon . 
He half turned then he remembered the children , and turned back . 
'You or I , said Stan to himself , and took up his position on the edge of the flock . 
'Stop ! he suddenly cried , as the air was filled with a rushing noise , and the dragon came dashing past . 
'Dear me ! exclaimed the dragon , looking round . 
When the dragon heard these words he stood quite still in the middle of the road , for he knew he had met with his match . 
'But you will have to fight me first , he said in a trembling voice , for when you faced him properly he was not brave at all . 
The dragon did as Stan bade him , and brought back a stone out of the brook . 
'Can you get buttermilk out of your stone ? asked Stan . 
The dragon picked up his stone with one hand , and squeezed it till it fell into powder , but no buttermilk flowed from it . 
'Of course I can't ! he said , half angrily . 
'Well , if you can't , I can , answered Stan , and he pressed the cheese till buttermilk flowed through his fingers . 
When the dragon saw that , he thought it was time he made the best of his way home again , but Stan stood in his path . 
'Listen to me , he said at last . 
'I see you are a very useful person , and my mother has need of a fellow like you . 
Suppose you enter her service for three days , which are as long as one of your years , and she will pay you each day seven sacks full of ducats . 
Three times seven sacks full of ducats ! The offer was very tempting , and Stan could not resist it . 
He did not waste words , but nodded to the dragon , and they started along the road . 
It was a long , long way , but when they came to the end they found the dragon's mother , who was as old as time itself , expecting them . 
Stan saw her eyes shining like lamps from afar , and when they entered the house they beheld a huge kettle standing on the fire , filled with milk . 
'Stay here , said he , 'and wait for me I am going to explain things to my mother . 
'Listen , mother , said the dragon as soon as they were alone , 'I have brought this man in order to get rid of him . 
He is a terrific fellow who eats rocks , and can press buttermilk out of a stone , and he told her all that had happened the night before . 
'Oh , just leave him to me ! she said . 
'I have never yet let a man slip through my fingers . 
So Stan had to stay and do the old mother service . 
The next day she told him that he and her son should try which was the strongest , and she took down a huge club , bound seven times with iron . 
They walked to the spot where the club lay . 
Stan stooped and felt it then a great fear came over him , for he knew that he and all his children together would never lift that club from the ground . 
'What are you doing ? asked the dragon . 
'I was thinking what a beautiful club it was , and what a pity it is that it should cause your death . 
'How do you mean my death ? asked the dragon . 
'Only that I am afraid that if I throw it you will never see another dawn . 
You don't know how strong I am ! 'Oh , never mind that be quick and throw . 
'If you are really in earnest , let us go and feast for three days that will at any rate give you three extra days of life . 
Stan spoke so calmly that this time the dragon began to get a little frightened , though he did not quite believe that things would be as bad as Stan said . 
They returned to the house , took all the food that could be found in the old mother's larder , and carried it back to the place where the club was lying . 
Then Stan seated himself on the sack of provisions , and remained quietly watching the setting moon . 
'What are you doing ? asked the dragon . 
'Waiting till the moon gets out of my way . 
'What do you mean ? I don't understand . 
'Don't you see that the moon is exactly in my way ? But of course , if you like , I will throw the club into the moon . 
At these words the dragon grew uncomfortable for the second time . 
He prized the club , which had been left him by his grandfather , very highly , and had no desire that it should be lost in the moon . 
'I'll tell you what , he said , after thinking a little . 
'Don't throw the club at all . 
I will throw it a second time , and that will do just as well . 
'No , certainly not ! replied Stan . 
'Just wait till the moon sets . 
'Oh , dear me , that is indeed a strong man , said the dragon , turning to his mother . 
'Go and fetch me water ! said the mother , when the morning broke , and gave them twelve buffalo skins with the order to keep filling them till night . 
Stan was tired he could scarcely lift the buckets when they were empty , and he shuddered to think of what would happen when they were full . 
But he only took an old knife out of his pocket and began to scratch up the earth near the brook . 
'What are you doing there ? How are you going to carry the water into the house ? asked the dragon . 
'How ? Dear me , that is easy enough ! I shall just take the brook ! At these words the dragon's jaw dropped . 
This was the last thing that had ever entered his head , for the brook had been as it was since the days of his grandfather . 
'I'll tell you what ! he said . 
'Let me carry your skins for you . 
On the third day the old mother sent Stan into the forest for wood , and , as usual , the dragon went with him . 
Before you could count three he had pulled up more trees than Stan could have cut down in a lifetime , and had arranged them neatly in rows . 
And so he did to a whole line of trees . 
'What are you doing there ? asked the dragon . 
'You can see for yourself , answered Stan , going quietly on with his work . 
'Why are you tying the trees together ? 'Not to give myself unnecessary work when I pull up one , all the others will come up too . 
'You are a good fellow , and I agree to your proposal , answered Stan , and the dragon carried the wood . 
'Woe be to us , mother , said the dragon 'this man will soon get us into his power . 
Give him his money , and let us be rid of him . 
But the old mother was fond of money , and did not like this . 
'Listen to me , said she 'you must murder him this very night . 
'I am afraid , answered he . 
'There is nothing to fear , replied the old mother . 
'When he is asleep take the club , and hit him on the head with it . 
And so it would have been , had not Stan heard all about it . 
Then he hid himself underneath , and began to snore loudly . 
Very soon the dragon stole softly into the room , and gave a tremendous blow on the spot where Stan's head should have been . 
Stan groaned loudly from under the bed , and the dragon went away as softly as he had come . 
The next morning he came into the room when the dragon and his mother were having their breakfast . 
'Good morning , said he . 
How did you sleep ? 'Oh , very well , but I dreamed that a flea had bitten me , and I seem to feel it still . 
The dragon and his mother looked at each other . 
'Do you hear that ? whispered he . 
'He talks of a flea . 
I broke my club on his head . 
This time the mother grew as frightened as her son . 
But on his side Stan was trembling like an aspen , as he could not lift even one sack from the ground . 
So he stood still and looked at them . 
'What are you standing there for ? asked the dragon . 
'Oh , I was standing here because it has just occurred to me that I should like to stay in your service for another year . 
I am ashamed that when I get home they should see I have brought back so little . 
I know that they will cry out , Just look at Stan Bolovan , who in one year has grown as weak as a dragon . 
'I'll tell you what ! said Stan at last . 
'I see you don't want me to stay , and I should be very sorry to make myself disagreeable . 
I will go at once , but only on condition that you shall carry the money home yourself , so that I may not be put to shame before my friends . 
The words were hardly out of his mouth before the dragon had snatched up the sacks and piled them on his back . 
Then he and Stan set forth . 
The way , though really not far , was yet too long for Stan , but at length he heard his children's voices , and stopped short . 
He did not wish the dragon to know where he lived , lest some day he should come to take back his treasure . 
Was there nothing he could say to get rid of the monster ? Suddenly an idea came into Stan's head , and he turned round . 
'I hardly know what to do , said he . 
'I have a hundred children , and I am afraid they may do you harm , as they are always ready for a fight . 
However , I will do my best to protect you . 
A hundred children ! That was indeed no joke ! The dragon let fall the sacks from terror , and then picked them up again . 
So one fine morning in the spring they both set out along the road that led from Kioto to Osaka , one from one end and the other from the other . 
'What a pity we are not bigger , said the Osaka frog 'for then we could see both towns from here , and tell if it is worth our while going on . 
'Oh , that is easily managed , returned the Kioto frog . 
'We have only got to stand up on our hind legs , and hold on to each other , and then we can each look at the town he is travelling to . 
This idea pleased the Osaka frog so much that he at once jumped up and put his front paws on the shoulders of his friend , who had risen also . 
There they both stood , stretching themselves as high as they could , and holding each other tightly , so that they might not fall down . 
'Dear me ! cried the Osaka frog , 'Kioto is exactly like Osaka . 
It is certainly not worth such a long journey . 
Then he jumped up and returned to the dust heap . 
'For who knows , he said to himself , 'whether I may not have some good luck again . 
As he was walking down the road , he saw a man coming towards him , carrying a cage made of twigs . 
'Hi ! you fellow ! called he , 'what have you got inside there ? 'Gazelles , replied the man . 
'Bring them here , for I should like to see them . 
'What do you ask for your gazelles ? said the beggar . 
This he did night and morning , till five days went by . 
Then , as he slept , the gazelle woke him , saying , 'Master . 
And the man answered , 'How is it that I see a wonder ? 'What wonder ? asked the gazelle . 
'Never mind that , said the gazelle , 'but listen to what I say ! First , I took you for my master . 
Second , you gave for me all you had in the world . 
What you find in the dust heaps is not enough for both of us . 
'Go , then , answered the master and the gazelle went . 
When the sun had set , the gazelle came back , and the poor man was very glad , and they lay down and slept side by side . 
In the morning it said to him , 'I am going away to feed . 
And glad he was when the evening came , and he could return home . 
He lay on the grass chewing tobacco , when the gazelle trotted up . 
It is far away in the forest , and no one knows of it but me , and to morrow I shall go again . 
But , instead , it saw something lying in the earth , which turned out to be a diamond , very large and bright . 
I had better take it myself to some great rich man , and see what it will do for me . 
For two more days it ran , from dawn to dark , till at last early one morning it caught sight of a large town , which gave it fresh courage . 
The people were standing about the streets doing their marketing , when the gazelle bounded past , the diamond flashing as it ran . 
They called after it , but it took no notice till it reached the palace , where the sultan was sitting , enjoying the cool air . 
And the gazelle galloped up to him , and laid the diamond at his feet . 
And he likewise ordered milk to be brought , and rice , that it might eat and drink and be refreshed . 
And when the gazelle was rested , the sultan said to it 'Give me the news you have come with . 
And the gazelle answered 'I am come with this diamond , which is a pledge from my master the Sultan Darai . 
He has heard you have a daughter , and sends you this small token , and begs you will give her to him to wife . 
And the sultan said 'I am content . 
The wife is his wife , the family is his family , the slave is his slave . 
Let him come to me empty handed , I am content . 
And the sultan answered 'So let it be . 
All this time the poor man far away had been mourning and weeping for his gazelle , which he thought had run away from him for ever . 
And when it came in at the door he rushed to embrace it with such joy that he would not allow it a chance to speak . 
'Be still , master , and don't cry , said the gazelle at last 'let us sleep now , and in the morning , when I go , follow me . 
And directly they caught sight of the gazelle in the distance one of the soldiers ran on and said , 'Sultan Darai is coming I have seen the gazelle . 
Then the sultan rose up , and called his whole court to follow him , and went out to meet the gazelle , who , bounding up to him , gave him greeting . 
The sultan answered politely , and inquired where it had left its master , whom it had promised to bring back . 
And he is now hiding under a bush , lest a passing stranger might see him . 
'Now , said he to the gazelle , 'take these things with the soldiers to the sultan , that he may be able to come . 
And the gazelle answered 'Can I take those soldiers to go and put my master to shame as he lies there naked ? I am enough by myself , my lord . 
'How will you be enough , asked the sultan , 'to manage this horse and all these clothes ? 'Oh , that is easily done , replied the gazelle . 
'Fasten the horse to my neck and tie the clothes to the back of the horse , and be sure they are fixed firmly , as I shall go faster than he does . 
Everything was carried out as the gazelle had ordered , and when all was ready it said to the sultan 'Farewell , my lord , I am going . 
And in the eyes of the sultan the gazelle became a person of consequence . 
Meanwhile the gazelle ran on till it came to the place where its master was seated , and his heart laughed when he saw the gazelle . 
'Master ! said the gazelle when the man was ready , 'be sure that where we are going you keep silence , except for giving greetings and asking for news . 
Leave all the talking to me . 
I have provided you with a wife , and have made her presents of clothes and turbans and rare and precious things , so it is needless for you to speak . 
'Very good , I will be silent , replied the man as he mounted the horse . 
'You have given all this it is you who are the master , and I who am the slave , and I will obey you in all things . 
'So they went their way , and they went and went till the gazelle saw in the distance the palace of the sultan . 
Then it said , 'Master , that is the house we are going to , and you are not a poor man any longer even your name is new . 
'What IS my name , eh , my father ? asked the man . 
'Sultan Darai , said the gazelle . 
Very soon some soldiers came to meet them , while others ran off to tell the sultan of their approach . 
And the sultan set off at once , and the viziers and the emirs , and the judges , and the rich men of the city , all followed him . 
Get off your horse and go to greet him . 
'Master , said the gazelle the following morning , 'I am setting out on a journey , and I shall not be back for seven days , and perhaps not then . 
But be careful not to leave the house till I come . 
And the master answered , 'I will not leave the house . 
And it went to the sultan of the country and said to him 'My lord , Sultan Darai has sent me to his town to get the house in order . 
It will take me seven days , and if I am not back in seven days he will not leave the palace till I return . 
'Very good , said the sultan . 
And it went and it went through the forest and wilderness , till it arrived at a town full of fine houses . 
At the end of the chief road was a great house , beautiful exceedingly , built of sapphire and turquoise and marbles . 
For in this town have I as yet seen no people . 
If I die , I die , and if I live , I live . 
Here can I think of no plan , so if anything is to kill me , it will kill me . 
Then it knocked twice at the door , and cried 'Open , but no one answered . 
And it cried again , and a voice replied 'Who are you that are crying Open ? And the gazelle said , 'It is I , great mistress , your grandchild . 
'If you are my grandchild , returned the voice , 'go back whence you came . 
Don't come and die here , and bring me to my death as well . 
'Open , mistress , I entreat , I have something to say to you . 
'Grandchild , replied she , 'I fear to put your life in danger , and my own too . 
'Oh , mistress , my life will not be lost , nor yours either open , I pray you . 
So she opened the door . 
'What is the news where you come from , my grandson , asked she . 
'Great lady , where I come from it is well , and with you it is well . 
'Ah , my son , here it is not well at all . 
If you seek a way to die , or if you have not yet seen death , then is to day the day for you to know what dying is . 
And the lord of it all is an exceeding great and wonderful snake . 
He has put me here all by myself , and I have to cook his food . 
He eats till he has had enough , and then drinks a whole tankful of water . 
After that he goes away . 
Every second day he comes , when the sun is over the house . 
And he has seven heads . 
It cuts like a dash of lightning . 
'Give it to me , mother ! said the gazelle , and she unhooked the sword from the wall , as she was bidden . 
'You must be quick , she said , 'for he may be here at any moment . 
What else could it be , master ? All this time the gazelle had been standing close to the door , holding the sword in one of its front paws . 
When six of his heads were gone the snake lashed his tail with such fury that the gazelle and the old woman could not see each other for the dust he made . 
Then the sword fell rattling on the ground , for the gazelle had fainted . 
And the heart of the old woman was glad , and she gave it more water , till by and by the gazelle got up . 
'Show me this house , it said , 'from beginning to end , from top to bottom , from inside to out . 
So she arose and showed the gazelle rooms full of gold and precious things , and other rooms full of slaves . 
'They are all yours , goods and slaves , said she . 
But the gazelle answered , 'You must keep them safe till I call my master . 
I cannot eat , I cannot drink , I cannot laugh my heart felt no smile at anything , because of thinking of you . 
And the gazelle answered 'I am well , and where I come from it is well , and I wish that after four days you would take your wife and go home . 
And he said 'It is for you to speak . 
Where you go , I will follow . 
'Then I shall go to your father in law and tell him this news . 
But the gazelle replied 'My lord , you cannot help it , for he wishes to go home , and nothing will stop him . 
And at the end of four days a great company of ladies and slaves and horses went forth to escort the wife of Sultan Darai to her new home . 
They rode all day , and when the sun sank behind the hills they rested , and ate of the food the gazelle gave them , and lay down to sleep . 
And they journeyed on for many days , and they all , nobles and slaves , loved the gazelle with a great love more than they loved the Sultan Darai . 
At last one day signs of houses appeared , far , far off . 
And those who saw cried out , 'Gazelle ! And it answered , 'Ah , my mistresses , that is the house of Sultan Darai . 
When the old woman saw them coming through the courtyard she jumped and shouted for joy , and as the gazelle drew near she seized it in her arms , and kissed it . 
And she answered , 'Forgive me , my son . 
I did not know this was our master , and she threw open all the doors so that the master might see everything that the rooms and storehouses contained . 
Sultan Darai looked about him , and at length he said 'Unfasten those horses that are tied up , and let loose those people that are bound . 
And let some sweep , and some spread the beds , and some cook , and some draw water , and some come out and receive the mistress . 
But this house , and you , such as you are , we have never seen or heard of . 
After a few days , the ladies said they wished to go home again . 
The gazelle begged them hard to stay , but finding they would not , it brought many gifts , and gave some to the ladies and some to their slaves . 
And they all thought the gazelle greater a thousand times than its master , Sultan Darai . 
But people say , If you want to do any one good , don't do him good only , do him evil also , and there will be peace between you . 
So , mother , I have done I want to see the favours I have done to my master , that he may do me the like . 
'Good , replied the old woman , and they went to bed . 
In the morning , when light came , the gazelle was sick in its stomach and feverish , and its legs ached . 
And it said 'Mother ! And she answered , 'Here , my son ? And it said , 'Go and tell my master upstairs the gazelle is very ill . 
'What is the matter ? asked the wife . 
'All its body pains there is no part without pain . 
'Well , what can I do ? Make some gruel of red millet , and give to it . 
But he answered , 'Oh , you are mad ! Rice is only kept for people . 
'Eh , master , this is not like a gazelle . 
It is the apple of your eye . 
If sand got into that , it would trouble you . 
'My wife , your tongue is long , and he left the room . 
The old woman saw she had spoken vainly , and went back weeping to the gazelle . 
But still the old woman would not speak , and the gazelle prayed her to let it know the words of the master . 
And his wife asked what was the matter , and I told her that there was not a part of your body without pain . 
This is a gazelle in form , but not a gazelle in heart he is in all things better than a gentleman , be he who he may . 
And he answered her , 'Silly chatterer , your words are many . 
I know its price I bought it for an eighth . 
What loss will it be to me ? The gazelle kept silence for a few moments . 
Then it said , 'The elders said , One that does good like a mother , and I have done him good , and I have got this that the elders said . 
But go up again to the master , and tell him the gazelle is very ill , and it has not drunk the gruel of red millet . 
So the old woman returned , and found the master and the mistress drinking coffee . 
Then it happened to get both life and wealth , but now it had no honour with its master . 
I cannot sleep , I cannot eat , I cannot drink , for the worry of that gazelle . 
And she took it in her arms and said , 'My son , the good you did is lost there remains only patience . 
And it said , 'Mother , I shall die , for my soul is full of anger and bitterness . 
My face is ashamed , that I should have done good to my master , and that he should repay me with evil . 
So she went , and spoke as the gazelle had bidden her but he answered , 'I have told you to trouble me no more . 
For this gazelle is loved by all , by small and great , by women and men . 
Ah , my husband ! I thought you had great wisdom , and you have not even a little ! But he answered , 'You are mad , my wife . 
'Take also this cloth , she said , 'to cover it with , and this pillow for its head . 
And if the gazelle wants more , let it ask me , and not its master . 
And if it will , I will send it in a litter to my father , and he will nurse it till it is well . 
And when the people heard her they lifted up their voices and spoke 'We never saw you , we saw the gazelle . 
It was the gazelle who met with trouble here , it was the gazelle who met with rest here . 
So , then , when such an one departs from this world we weep for ourselves , we do not weep for the gazelle . 
Ah ! leave us alone that we may weep . 
But Sultan Darai would not heed their words , and the dead gazelle was thrown into the well . 
And he commanded horses to be saddled , and called the governor and the judges and all the rich men , and said 'Come now with me let us go and bury it . 
Night and day they travelled , till the sultan came to the well where the gazelle had been thrown . 
And it was a large well , built round a rock , with room for many people and the sultan entered , and the judges and the rich men followed him . 
And when he saw the gazelle lying there he wept afresh , and took it in his arms and carried it away . 
I have not spoken , and I have not laughed . 
The sultan took the gazelle and buried it , and ordered the people to wear mourning for it , so there was great mourning throughout the city . 
And the man dreamed that he was on the dust heap , scratching . 
And when he woke , behold ! that also was no dream , but the truth . 
HOW A FISH SWAM IN THE AIR AND A HARE IN THE WATER . 
Once upon a time an old man and his wife lived together in a little village . 
They might have been happy if only the old woman had had the sense to hold her tongue at proper times . 
One day , he drove to the forest . 
When he reached the edge of it he got out of his cart and walked beside it . 
Suddenly he stepped on such a soft spot that his foot sank in the earth . 
'What can this be ? thought he . 
'I'll dig a bit and see . 
So he dug and dug , and at last he came on a little pot full of gold and silver . 
He sat down and thought over the matter a long time , and at last he made a plan . 
He covered up the pot again with earth and twigs , and drove on into the town , where he bought a live pike and a live hare in the market . 
Then he got into his cart and trotted merrily home . 
'Wife ! cried he , the moment he got indoors . 
'You can't think what a piece of good luck has come our way . 
'What , what , dear husband ? Do tell me all about it at once . 
'No , no , you'll just go off and tell everyone . 
So the man and his wife drove to the forest . 
Well ! well ! times are certainly changed . 
'Why , you must be crazy , husband ! Dear , dear , what nonsense people do talk sometimes . 
'Nonsense , indeed ! Why , just look . 
Bless my soul , if there isn't a fish , a real pike I do believe , up in that tree . 
'Gracious ! cried his wife . 
'How did a pike get there ? It IS a pike you needn't attempt to say it's not . 
Can people have said true But the man only shook his head and shrugged his shoulders and opened his mouth and gaped as if he really could not believe his own eyes . 
'What are you standing staring at there , stupid ? said his wife . 
'Climb up the tree quick and catch the pike , and we'll cook it for dinner . 
The man climbed up the tree and brought down the pike , and they drove on . 
When they got near the stream he drew up . 
'What are you staring at again ? asked his wife impatiently . 
'Drive on , can't you ? 'Why , I seem to see something moving in that net I set . 
I must just go and see what it is . 
He ran to it , and when he had looked in it he called to his wife 'Just look ! Here is actually a four footed creature caught in the net . 
I do believe it's a hare . 
'Good heavens ! cried his wife . 
'How did the hare get into your net ? It IS a hare , so you needn't say it isn't . 
After all , people must have said the truth But her husband only shook his head and shrugged his shoulders as if he could not believe his own eyes . 
'Now what are you standing there for , stupid ? cried his wife . 
A nice fat hare is a dinner for a feast day . 
The old man caught up the hare , and they drove on to the place where the treasure was buried . 
They swept the twigs away , dug up the earth , took out the pot , and drove home again with it . 
And now the old couple had plenty of money and were cheery and comfortable . 
But the wife was very foolish . 
Every day she asked a lot of people to dinner and feasted them , till her husband grew quite impatient . 
He tried to reason with her , but she would not listen . 
'You've got no right to lecture me ! said she . 
'We found the treasure together , and together we will spend it . 
Her husband took patience , but at length he said to her 'You may do as you please , but I sha'n't give you another penny . 
The old woman was very angry . 
'Oh , what a good for nothing fellow to want to spend all the money himself ! But just wait a bit and see what I shall do . 
Off she went to the governor to complain of her husband . 
'Oh , my lord , protect me from my husband ! Ever since he found the treasure there is no bearing him . 
He only eats and drinks , and won't work , and he keeps all the money to himself . 
The governor took pity on the woman , and ordered his chief secretary to look into the matter . 
The secretary called the elders of the village together , and went with them to the man's house . 
'The governor , said he , 'desires you to give all that treasure you found into my care . 
The man shrugged his shoulders and said 'What treasure ? I know nothing about a treasure . 
'How ? You know nothing ? Why your wife has complained of you . 
Don't attempt to tell lies . 
If you don't hand over all the money at once you will be tried for daring to raise treasure without giving due notice to the governor about it . 
'Nonsense , indeed , broke in his wife . 
'A kettle full of gold and silver , do you call that nonsense ? 'You are not in your right mind , dear wife . 
Sir , I beg your pardon . 
Ask her how it all happened , and if she convinces you I'll pay for it with my life . 
'This is how it all happened , Mr. Secretary , cried the wife . 
'We were driving through the forest , and we saw a pike up in the top of a tree 'What , a PIKE ? shouted the secretary . 
'Do you think you may joke with me , pray ? 'Indeed , I'm not joking , Mr. Secretary ! I'm speaking the bare truth . 
'Now you see , gentlemen , said her husband , 'how far you can trust her , when she chatters like this . 
You see for yourself , gentlemen , how far you can believe her . 
'Yes , indeed , said the village elders , 'it is certainly the first time we have heard that hares thrive in the water or fish among the tree tops . 
The secretary could make nothing of it all , and drove back to the town . 
He had no peace or comfort at all , and really hardly knew how to bear it . 
What kind of bird do you think he caught in his net ? He caught a crane , and the crane said , 'Let me go free , and I'll show myself grateful . 
The man answered , 'No , my dear fellow . 
I shall take you home , and then perhaps my wife won't scold me so much . 
Said the crane 'You had better come with me to my house , and so they went to the crane's house . 
They brought in oak tables , which they spread with silken covers , and placed all sorts of delicious dishes and refreshing drinks on them . 
The man had never seen anything so beautiful in his life , and he was delighted . 
Then the crane said to him , 'Now take this sack to your wife . 
The man thanked him warmly , took the sack , and set out . 
His home was a good long way off , and as it was growing dark , and he was feeling tired , he stopped to rest at his cousin's house by the way . 
The cousin had three daughters , who laid out a tempting supper , but the man would eat nothing , and said to his cousin , 'Your supper is bad . 
Never in their lives had the cousin and her daughters seen such a supper , and they were delighted and astonished at it . 
When the man was safe in the bathroom she told her daughters to make a sack exactly like his , as quickly as possible . 
Then she changed the two sacks , and hid the man's sack away . 
The man enjoyed his bath , slept soundly , and set off early next morning , taking what he believed to be the sack the crane had given him . 
The man took flight and rushed oft into the field , and there he found the crane marching proudly about , and to him he told his tale . 
'Take this sack , said the crane . 
The man thanked him heartily , took the sack , and went . 
The words were hardly out of his mouth , when the two crept back into the sack . 
Then the man shouldered the sack , and went off straight to his cousin's house . 
He hung the sack up on a nail , and said 'Please have the bathroom heated , cousin . 
The cousin heated the bathroom , and the man went into it , but he neither washed nor rubbed himself , he just sat there and waited . 
Meantime his cousin felt hungry , so she called her daughters , and all four sat down to table . 
Then the mother said 'Two out of the sack . 
Tell him these two ruffians are beating me black and blue . 
'I've not finished rubbing myself yet , said the peasant . 
'I'm just washing my head , said the man . 
Then she sent the youngest girl , and he said 'I've not done drying myself . 
At last the woman could hold out no longer , and sent him the sack she had stolen . 
NOW he had quite finished his bath , and as he left the bathroom he cried 'Two into the sack . 
And the two crept back at once into the sack . 
Then the man took both sacks , the good and the bad one , and went away home . 
The man went into the cottage , hung his sack on a nail , and said , as the crane had taught him 'Two out of the sack . 
Instantly two pretty lads sprang out of the sack , brought in oak tables , laid silken covers on them , and spread them with all sorts of delicious dishes and refreshing drinks . 
The woman ate and drank , and praised her husband . 
'Well , now , old man , I won't beat you any more , said she . 
When they had done eating , the man carried off the good sack , and put it away in his store room , but hung the bad sack up on the nail . 
Then he lounged up and down in the yard . 
Meantime his wife became thirsty . 
She looked with longing eyes at the sack , and at last she said , as her husband had done 'Two out of the sack . 
Her husband only strolled up and down and laughed , as he said 'Yes , they'll beat you well , old lady . 
He had hardly said the words before they were back in the sack again . 
From this time the man and his wife lived so happily together that it was a pleasure to see them , and so the story has an end . 
One day the old man was working in his garden , with his dog , as usual , close by . 
This he did several times , till the old man wondered what could be the matter , and , picking up the spade , followed where the dog led him . 
The dog was so delighted at his success that he jumped round , barking loudly , till the noise brought the old woman out of the house . 
Curious to know if the dog had really found anything , the husband began to dig , and very soon the spade struck against something . 
He stooped down and pulled out a large box , filled quite full with shining gold pieces . 
'How can you ask such a thing ? answered the old man indignantly . 
'You know how much we love him , and that he is never out of our sight for five minutes . 
The man called loudly to his wife to bring a spade , and followed the dog , as he longed to catch the first glimpse of the expected treasure . 
'Your dog , said he , pretending to weep , 'has suddenly fallen down dead , though I took every care of him , and gave him everything he could wish for . 
And I thought I had better come straight and tell you . 
Weeping bitterly , the old man went to fetch the body of his favourite , and brought it home and buried it under the fig tree where he had found the treasure . 
From morning till night he and his wife mourned over their loss , and nothing could comfort them . 
At the sight of all this gold the hearts of the old people were glad , and once more they blessed their faithful dog . 
The old man did not at all like parting with his precious treasure , but he never could say no , so the neighbour went off with the mortar under his arm . 
The moment he got into his own house he took a great handful of rice , and began to shell off the husks , with the help of his wife . 
But that night the dog again appeared in a dream to his master , and told him that he must go and collect the ashes of the burnt mortar and bring them home . 
He put them carefully in a china vase , and carried it to the high road , Sitting down on a seat till the Daimio should pass . 
As to the trees in the open air , no one would ever think of looking for the tiniest bud for more than a month yet . 
The old man had not been waiting very long before he saw a cloud of dust in the far distance , and knew that it must be the procession of the Daimio . 
On they came , every man dressed in his finest clothes , and the crowd that was lining the road bowed their faces to the ground as they went by . 
We may be sure that in a very little while the envious neighbour had heard this also , and his bosom was filled with hate . 
His heart beat with pleasure when he caught the first glimpses of the Daimio's train , and he held himself ready for the right moment . 
Then the prince ordered the evil doer to be seized and bound and thrown into prison , where he was kept for many months . 
THE FAIRY OF THE DAWN Once upon a time what should happen DID happen and if it had not happened this tale would never have been told . 
There was once an emperor , very great and mighty , and he ruled over an empire so large that no one knew where it began and where it ended . 
But if nobody could tell the exact extent of his sovereignty everybody was aware that the emperor's right eye laughed , while his left eye wept . 
And all the while the emperor's sons were growing up . 
Costan , the second , was quite different . 
Small of stature , and slightly built , he had a strong arm and stronger wrist . 
Petru , the third and youngest , was tall and thin , more like a girl than a boy . 
He spoke very little , but laughed and sang , sang and laughed , from morning till night . 
But Florea would not go . 
He had learnt by experience that this question always put the emperor in a rage . 
Petru next went to Costan , but did not succeed any better with him . 
'Well , well , as everyone else is afraid , I suppose I must do it myself , observed Petru at length . 
No sooner said than done the boy went straight to his father and put his question . 
'May you go blind ! exclaimed the emperor in wrath 'what business is it of yours ? and boxed Petru's ears soundly . 
'I wonder if it has anything to do with my question , thought he . 
'It really MUST be true , thought Petru . 
'Now I know what I have to do . 
I shall have to go on putting that question , and getting boxes on the ear , till both eyes laugh together . 
No sooner said than done . 
Petru never , never forswore himself . 
'Petru , my dear boy , cried the emperor , both his eyes laughing together , 'I see you have got this on the brain . 
Well , I will let you into the secret . 
Thus spoke the emperor , and Petru picked up his hat and went to find his brothers . 
The three young men took counsel together , and talked the subject well over , as brothers should do . 
So saying he disappeared round a corner of the palace . 
For three days and three nights he never drew rein . 
Like a spirit the horse flew over mountains and valleys till he came to the borders of the empire . 
Here was a deep , deep trench that girdled it the whole way round , and there was only a single bridge by which the trench could be crossed . 
At this awful sight Florea did not wait to give battle . 
He put spurs to his horse and dashed off , WHERE he neither knew nor cared . 
The dragon heaved a sigh and vanished without leaving a trace behind him . 
Florea did not return home . 
Two passed and nothing was heard of him . 
After a month Costan began to haunt the stables and to look out a horse for himself . 
And the moment the year , the month , the week , and the day were over Costan mounted his horse and took leave of his youngest brother . 
'If I fail , then you come , said he , and followed the path that Florea had taken . 
The dragon on the bridge was more fearful and his three heads more terrible than before , and the young hero rode away still faster than his brother had done . 
Nothing more was heard either of him or Florea and Petru remained alone . 
'I must go after my brothers , said Petru one day to his father . 
'Go , then , said his father , 'and may you have better luck than they' and he bade farewell to Petru , who rode straight to the borders of the kingdom . 
The dragon on the bridge was yet more dreadful than the one Florea and Costan had seen , for this one had seven heads instead of only three . 
Petru stopped for a moment when he caught sight of this terrible creature . 
Then he found his voice . 
'Get out of the way ! cried he . 
'Get out of the way ! he repeated again , as the dragon did not move . 
'Get out of the way ! and with this last summons he drew his sword and rushed upon him . 
The horse neighed and reared at the horrible sight , and Petru could not use the sword he had in readiness . 
'Be quiet ! this won't do ! he said , dismounting hastily , but holding the bridle firmly in his left hand and grasping his sword in his right . 
But even so he got on no better , for he could see nothing but fire and smoke . 
'There is no help for it I must go back and get a better horse , said he , and mounted again and rode homewards . 
At the gate of the palace his nurse , old Birscha , was waiting for him eagerly . 
'Ah , Petru , my son , I knew you would have to come back , she cried . 
'You did not set about the matter properly . 
'How ought I to have set about it ? asked Petru , half angrily , half sadly . 
'Look here , my boy , replied old Birscha . 
'You can never reach the spring of the Fairy of the Dawn unless you ride the horse which your father , the emperor , rode in his youth . 
Go and ask where it is to be found , and then mount it and be off with you . 
Petru thanked her heartily for her advice , and went at once to make inquiries about the horse . 
'By the light of my eyes ! exclaimed the emperor when Petru had put his question . 
Petru turned away in anger , and went back to his old nurse . 
'Do not be cast down , she said with a smile 'if that is how the affair stands all will go well . 
Go and fetch the scrap of the reins I shall soon know what must be done . 
The place was full of saddles , bridles , and bits of leather . 
'Take the reins , said she , 'and strike them violently against the pillars of the house . 
Petru did what he was told , and scarcely had the reins touched the pillars when something happened HOW I have no idea that made Petru stare with surprise . 
The moment Petru was seated on the horse he felt his arm three times as strong as before , and even his heart felt braver . 
But , horrible though he was , he had met his match . 
Petru showed no fear , but rolled up his sleeves , that his arms might be free . 
'Get out of the way ! he said when he had done , but the dragon's heads only breathed forth more flames and smoke . 
Petru wasted no more words , but drew his sword and prepared to throw himself on the bridge . 
'Stop a moment be careful , my lord , put in the horse , 'and be sure you do what I tell you . 
Dig your spurs in my body up to the rowel , draw your sword , and keep yourself ready , for we shall have to leap over both bridge and dragon . 
And in this fashion they passed the bridge . 
'But we have got to go further still , said Petru , after he had taken a farewell glance at his native land . 
'Yes , forwards , answered the horse 'but you must tell me , my lord , at what speed you wish to go . 
Like the wind ? Like thought ? Like desire ? or like a curse ? Petru looked about him , up at the heavens and down again to the earth . 
A desert lay spread out before him , whose aspect made his hair stand on end . 
'We will ride at different speeds , said he , 'not so fast as to grow tired nor so slow as to waste time . 
Before Petru lay a wood made of copper , with copper trees and copper leaves , with bushes and flowers of copper also . 
Petru stood and stared as a man does when he sees something that he has never seen , and of which he has never heard . 
Then he rode right into the wood . 
On each side of the way the rows of flowers began to praise Petru , and to try and persuade him to pick some of them and make himself a wreath . 
'Take me , for I am lovely , and can give strength to whoever plucks me , said one . 
Petru was not deaf to their persuasion , and was just stooping to pick one when the horse sprang to one side . 
'Why don't you stay still ? asked Petru roughly . 
'Do not pick the flowers it will bring you bad luck answered the horse . 
'Why should it do that ? 'These flowers are under a curse . 
Whoever plucks them must fight the Welwa of the woods . 
'What kind of a goblin is the Welwa ? 'Oh , do leave me in peace ! But listen . 
Look at the flowers as much as you like , but pick none , and the horse walked on slowly . 
Petru knew by experience that he would do well to attend to the horse's advice , so he made a great effort and tore his mind away from the flowers . 
'You have done very wrong , said the horse sadly . 
'But it can't be helped now . 
'Are you afraid ? asked the horse , shaking his mane . 
'Not yet , replied Petru stoutly , though cold shivers were running down his back . 
'What must come will come , whatever it is . 
'Don't be afraid , said the horse . 
Take the bridle from my neck , and try to catch the Welwa with it . 
She had not exactly a head , yet neither was she without one . 
She did not fly through the air , but neither did she walk upon the earth . 
She had a mane like a horse , horns like a deer , a face like a bear , eyes like a polecat while her body had something of each . 
And that was the Welwa . 
Petru planted himself firmly in his stirrups , and began to lay about him with his sword , but could feel nothing . 
A day and a night went by , and the fight was still undecided , but at last the Welwa began to pant for breath . 
'Let us wait a little and rest , gasped she . 
Petru stopped and lowered his sword . 
'You must not stop an instant , said the horse , and Petru gathered up all his strength , and laid about him harder than ever . 
The Welwa gave a neigh like a horse and a howl like a wolf , and threw herself afresh on Petru . 
For another day and night the battle raged more furiously than before . 
And Petru grew so exhausted he could scarcely move his arm . 
'Let us wait a little and rest , cried the Welwa for the second time , 'for I see you are as weary as I am . 
'You must not stop an instant , said the horse . 
And Petru went on fighting , though he barely had strength to move his arm . 
But the Welwa had ceased to throw herself upon him , and began to deliver her blows cautiously , as if she had no longer power to strike . 
In a moment , from the Welwa sprang a horse the most beautiful horse in the world . 
'Sweet be your life , for you have delivered me from my enchantment , said he , and began to rub his nose against his brother's . 
And he told Petru all his story , and how he had been bewitched for many years . 
So Petru tied the Welwa to his own horse and rode on . 
Where did he ride ? That I cannot tell you , but he rode on fast till he got out of the copper wood . 
'Stay still , and let me look about , and see what I never have seen before , said Petru again to his horse . 
For in front of him stretched a forest that was far more wonderful , as it was made of glistening trees and shining flowers . 
It was the silver wood . 
As before , the flowers began to beg the young man to gather them . 
For three days and three nights they fought , but at last Petru cast the bridle over the head of the second Welwa . 
'Sweet be your life , for you have delivered me from enchantment , said the second Welwa , and they all journeyed on as before . 
He drew his sword and made himself ready for the fight . 
'I will die ! cried he , 'or he shall have my bridle over his head . 
For a day and a night he fought with his sword , without ever once seeing his enemy , then suddenly the fog began to lighten . 
By dawn of the second day it had vanished altogether , and the sun shone brightly in the heavens . 
It seemed to Petru that he had been born again . 
And the Welwa ? She had vanished . 
'You had better take breath now you can , for the fight will have to begin all over again , said the horse . 
'What was it ? asked Petru . 
A river , yet not a river , for it seemed not to flow over the earth , but to go where it liked , and to leave no trace of its passage . 
'Woe be to me ! cried Petru , frightened at last . 
'Beware , and never stand still , called the brown horse , and more he could not say , for the water was choking him . 
For a day and a night Petru fought on , without knowing at whom or what he struck . 
At dawn on the second , he felt that both his feet were lame . 
'Now I am done for , thought he , and his blows fell thicker and harder in his desperation . 
And the sun came out and the water disappeared , without his knowing how or when . 
'Take breath , said the horse , 'for you have no time to lose . 
The Welwa will return in a moment . 
Petru made no reply , only wondered how , exhausted as he was , he should ever be able to carry on the fight . 
But he settled himself in his saddle , grasped his sword , and waited . 
And then something came to him WHAT I cannot tell you . 
Perhaps , in his dreams , a man may see a creature which has what it has not got , and has not got what it has . 
At least , that was what the Welwa seemed like to Petru . 
Petru felt for a moment as if he was wrapped in a garment of fear then he shook himself and took heart , and fought as he had never yet fought before . 
As the day wore on , his strength began to fail , and when darkness fell he could hardly keep his eyes open . 
By midnight he knew he was no longer on his horse , but standing on the ground , though he could not have told how he got there . 
When the grey light of morning came , he was past standing on his feet , but fought now upon his knees . 
'Make one more struggle it is nearly over now , said the horse , seeing that Petru's strength was waning fast . 
Petru wiped the sweat from his brow with his gauntlet , and with a desperate effort rose to his feet . 
'Strike the Welwa on the mouth with the bridle , said the horse , and Petru did it . 
'May your wife be the most beautiful of women , said the Welwa , 'for you have delivered me from my enchantment . 
So the four horses galloped fast , and by nightfall they were at the borders of the golden forest . 
Then Petru began to think of the crowns that he wore , and what they had cost him . 
'Stay ! cried the horse , 'do not throw them away ! Perhaps we shall find them of use . 
Get down and pick them up . 
So Petru got down and picked them up , and they all went on . 
In the evening , when the sun is getting low , and all the midges are beginning to bite , Peter saw a wide heath stretching before him . 
At the same instant the horse stood still of itself . 
'What is the matter ? asked Petru . 
'I am afraid that something evil will happen to us , answered the horse . 
'But why should it ? 'We are going to enter the kingdom of the goddess Mittwoch , and the further we ride into it the colder we shall get . 
But all along the road there are huge fires , and I dread lest you should stop and warm yourself at them . 
In German 'Mittwoch , the feminine form of Mercury . 
'And why should I not warm myself ? 'Something fearful will happen to you if you do , replied the horse sadly . 
But Petru was no coward the fight he had gone through had strengthened his powers of endurance , and he stood the test bravely . 
Along the road on each side were great fires , with men standing by them , who spoke pleasantly to Petru as he went by , and invited him to join them . 
The breath froze in his mouth , but he took no notice , only bade his horse ride on the faster . 
At length they reached the dwelling of Mittwoch herself , and , jumping from his horse , Petru threw the reins over his horse's neck and entered the hut . 
'Good day , little mother ! said he . 
'Very well , thank you , my frozen friend ! Petru laughed , and waited for her to speak . 
'You have borne yourself bravely , went on the goddess , tapping him on the shoulder . 
'Now you shall have your reward , and she opened an iron chest , out of which she took a little box . 
'Look ! said she 'this little box has been lying here for ages , waiting for the man who could win his way through the Ice Kingdom . 
Take it , and treasure it , for some day it may help you . 
If you open it , it will tell you anything you want , and give you news of your fatherland . 
Petru thanked her gratefully for her gift , mounted his horse , and rode away . 
When he was some distance from the hut , he opened the casket . 
'What are your commands ? asked a voice inside . 
'Give me news of my father , he replied , rather nervously . 
'He is sitting in council with his nobles , answered the casket . 
'Is he well ? 'Not particularly , for he is furiously angry . 
'What has angered him ? 'Your brothers Costan and Florea , replied the casket . 
'It seems to me they are trying to rule him and the kingdom as well , and the old man says they are not fit to do it . 
'Push on , good horse , for we have no time to lose ! cried Petru then he shut up the box , and put it in his pocket . 
'Stop ! I have some advice to give you , said the horse at last . 
'What is it ? asked Petru . 
'You have known what it is to suffer cold you will have to endure heat , such as you have never dreamed of . 
Be as brave now as you were then . 
Let no one tempt you to try to cool yourself , or evil will befall you . 
If I have escaped without being frozen , there is no chance of my melting . 
'Why not ? This is a heat that will melt the marrow in your bones a heat that is only to be felt in the kingdom of the Goddess of Thunder . 
In the German 'Donnerstag' the day of the Thunder God , i . 
The very iron of the horse's shoes began to melt , but Petru gave no heed . 
The sweat ran down his face , but he dried it with his gauntlet . 
When Petru looked at them his heart burned within him , and his mouth grew parched . 
And standing among the flowers were lovely maidens who called to him in soft voices , till he had to shut his eyes against their spells . 
'Come , my hero , come and rest the heat will kill you , said they . 
Petru shook his head and said nothing , for he had lost the power of speech . 
Long he rode in this awful state , how long none can tell . 
Suddenly the heat seemed to become less , and , in the distance , he saw a little hut on a hill . 
This was the dwelling of the Goddess of Thunder , and when he drew rein at her door the goddess herself came out to meet him . 
She welcomed him , and kindly invited him in , and bade him tell her all his adventures . 
So Petru told her all that had happened to him , and why he was there , and then took farewell of her , as he had no time to lose . 
'For , he said , 'who knows how far the Fairy of the Dawn may yet be ? 'Stay for one moment , for I have a word of advice to give you . 
You are about to enter the kingdom of Venus go and tell her , as a message from me , that I hope she will not tempt you to delay . 
On your way back , come to me again , and I will give you something that may be of use to you . 
'Vineri is Friday , and also 'Venus . 
So Petru mounted his horse , and had hardly ridden three steps when he found himself in a new country . 
Here it was neither hot nor cold , but the air was warm and soft like spring , though the way ran through a heath covered with sand and thistles . 
'What can that be ? asked Petru , when he saw a long , long way off , at the very end of the heath , something resembling a house . 
'They won't hurt you , said the horse 'they are just the daughters of the whirlwind amusing themselves while they are waiting for the ogre of the moon . 
Then he stopped in front of the house , and Petru jumped off and went to the door . 
'Do not be in such a hurry , cried the horse . 
'There are several things I must tell you first . 
You cannot enter the house of the goddess Venus like that . 
She is always watched and guarded by the whirlwind . 
'What am I to do then ? 'Take the copper wreath , and go with it to that little hill over there . 
if I knew ! if I knew ! and throw the wreath from you ! 'And why should I do all this ? said Petru . 
'Ask no questions , but go and do it , replied the horse . 
Scarcely had he flung away the copper wreath than the whirlwind flung himself upon it , and tore it in pieces . 
Then Petru turned once more to the horse . 
'Stop ! cried the horse again . 
'I have other things to tell you . 
Take the silver wreath and knock at the windows of the goddess Venus . 
When she says , Who is there ? answer that you have come on foot and lost your way on the heath . 
She will then tell you to go your way back again but take care not to stir from the spot . 
This is what you must say . 
What happens after is your affair . 
Petru asked no more , but went towards the house . 
'Which of those dogs is barking ? Is he tired of life ? asked the goddess Venus . 
'It is I , O goddess ! replied Petru , rather timidly . 
'I have lost my way on the heath , and do not know where I am to sleep this night . 
'Where did you leave your horse ? asked the goddess sharply . 
He was not sure if he was to lie , or whether he had better tell the truth . 
'Go away , my son , there is no place for you here , replied she , drawing back from the window . 
'Come into the house , went on the goddess 'do not fear the dogs , they always know my will . 
And so they did , for as the young man passed they wagged their tails to him . 
But Petru agreed with her in everything , as he had been taught was only polite . 
But Venus was joyful in her heart when she saw Petru's eyes fixed upon her . 
'Nothing was that is , and the world was not a world when I was born , said she . 
'When I grew up and the world came into being , everyone thought I was the most beautiful girl that ever was seen , though many hated me for it . 
But every hundred years there came a wrinkle on my face . 
And now I am old . 
Petru did not know what to do . 
'Close to the Fairy's house is a well , and whoever drinks from it will blossom again like a rose . 
Bring me a flagon of it , and I will do anything to prove my gratitude . 
Then she rose and lifted the lid of an iron bound chest , and took out of it a very tiny flute . 
'Do you see this ? she asked . 
'An old man gave it to me when I was young whoever listens to this flute goes to sleep , and nothing can wake him . 
Take it and play on it as long as you remain in the kingdom of the Fairy of the Dawn , and you will be safe . 
So Petru bade her good night , put the flute in its case , and laid himself down in the lowest chamber to sleep . 
Then he dressed himself and made ready to start . 
'Stop , cried Venus from her window , 'I have still a piece of advice to give you . 
Leave one of your horses here , and only take three . 
Ride slowly till you get to the fairy's kingdom , then dismount and go on foot . 
When you return , see that all your three horses remain on the road , while you walk . 
But above all beware never to look the Fairy of the Dawn in the face , for she has eyes that will bewitch you , and glances that will befool you . 
She is hideous , more hideous than anything you can imagine , with owl's eyes , foxy face , and cat's claws . 
Do you hear ? do you hear ? Be sure you never look at her . 
Petru thanked her , and managed to get off at last . 
That light was behind the palace of the Fairy of the Dawn , and it took Petru two days and nights through flowery meadows to reach it . 
And besides , it was neither hot nor cold , bright nor dark , but something of them all , and Petru did not find the way a step too long . 
He did not know there was such a beautiful castle in the world . 
He had hardly gone many steps when he stumbled over a huge giant , who had been lulled to sleep by the music . 
This was one of the guards of the castle ! As he lay there on his back , he seemed so big that in spite of Petru's haste he stopped to measure him . 
The further went Petru , the more strange and terrible were the sights he saw lions , tigers , dragons with seven heads , all stretched out in the sun fast asleep . 
It is needless to say what the dragons were like , for nowadays everyone knows , and dragons are not things to joke about . 
Petru ran through them like the wind . 
And it ran neither fast nor slow , but both fast and slow together . 
Who could tell what it was made of ? It looked like soft little woolly clouds ! So he stood thinking what was to be done , for get across he must . 
After a while , he determined to take the risk , and strode back to the sleeping giant . 
'Wake up , my brave man ! he cried , giving him a shake . 
The giant woke and stretched out his hand to pick up Petru , just as we should catch a fly . 
But Petru played on his flute , and the giant fell back again . 
When the giant saw the trick which had been played on him he said to Petru . 
When his hands were freed , the giant flung himself upon Petru , hoping to crush him by his weight . 
But he had met his match . 
It was not yesterday , nor the day before , that Petru had fought his first battle , and he bore himself bravely . 
'Let me go ! let me go ! shrieked he . 
'I own that I am beaten ! 'Will you take me over the river ? asked Petru . 
'I will , gasped the giant . 
'What shall I do to you if you break your word ? 'Kill me , any way you like ! But let me live now . 
'That is all right , said Petru . 
Then he played a few notes on his flute , and the giant went to sleep again . 
Even the fairies who had been bathing a little lower down heard the music and fell asleep among the flowers on the bank . 
And now he was in the wonderful gardens , which seemed more wonderful still than they had done from afar . 
But Petru could see no faded flowers , nor any birds , as he hastened through them to the castle . 
No one was there to bar his way , for all were asleep . 
Even the leaves had ceased to move . 
He passed through the courtyard , and entered the castle itself . 
What he beheld there need not be told , for all the world knows that the palace of the Fairy of the Dawn is no ordinary place . 
Petru went up the stairs and walked quickly through eight and forty rooms , hung with silken stuffs , and all empty . 
In the forty ninth he found the Fairy of the Dawn herself . 
In the middle of this room , which was as large as a church , Petru saw the celebrated well that he had come so far to seek . 
Near the well was a table , on which stood bread made with does' milk , and a flagon of wine . 
It was the bread of strength and the wine of youth , and Petru longed for them . 
He looked once at the bread and once at the wine , and then at the Fairy of the Dawn , still sleeping on her silken cushions . 
As he looked a mist came over his senses . 
Then he filled a flask with water from the well , and vanished swiftly . 
As he passed through the garden it seemed quite different from what it was before . 
The flowers were lovelier , the streams ran quicker , the sunbeams shone brighter , and the fairies seemed gayer . 
And all this had been caused by the three kisses Petru had given the Fairy of the Dawn . 
He passed everything safely by , and was soon seated in his saddle again . 
Faster than the wind , faster than thought , faster than longing , faster than hatred rode Petru . 
At length he dismounted , and , leaving his horses at the roadside , went on foot to the house of Venus . 
The goddess Venus knew that he was coming , and went to meet him , bearing with her white bread and red wine . 
'Welcome back , my prince , said she . 
'Good day , and many thanks , replied the young man , holding out the flask containing the magic water . 
She received it with joy , and after a short rest Petru set forth , for he had no time to lose . 
He stopped a few minutes , as he had promised , with the Goddess of Thunder , and was taking a hasty farewell of her , when she called him back . 
'Stay , I have a warning to give you , said she . 
'Beware of your life make friends with no man do not ride fast , or let the water go out of your hand believe no one , and flee flattering tongues . 
Go , and take care , for the way is long , the world is bad , and you hold something very precious . 
But I will give you this cloth to help you . 
Petru thanked her and rode off , and , taking out his treasure box , inquired how matters were going at home . 
Not well , it said . 
Then the brothers had gone to consult old Birscha , who told them that Petru was already on his way home bearing the water . 
They had set out to meet him , and would try to take the magic water from him , and then claim as their reward the government of the emperor . 
'You are lying ! cried Petru angrily , throwing the box on the ground , where it broke into a thousand pieces . 
It was not long before he began to catch glimpses of his native land , and he drew rein near a bridge , the better to look at it . 
He was still gazing , when he heard a sound in the distance as if some one was calling hit by his name . 
'You , Petru ! it said . 
'On ! on ! cried the horse 'it will fare ill with you if you stop . 
'No , let us stop , and see who and what it is ! answered Petru , turning his horse round , and coming face to face with his two brothers . 
He had a thousand questions to ask , and a thousand things to tell . 
But his brown horse stood sadly hanging his head . 
'So it would , added Costan . 
But Petru shook his head , and told them what the Goddess of Thunder had said , and about the cloth she had given him . 
And both brothers understood there was only one way in which they could kill him . 
At a stone's throw from where they stood ran a rushing stream , with clear deep pools . 
'Don't you feel thirsty , Costan ? asked Florea , winking at him . 
'Yes , replied Costan , understanding directly what was wanted . 
'Come , Petru , let us drink now we have the chance , and then we will set out on our way home . 
It is a good thing you have us with you , to protect you from harm . 
The horse neighed , and Petru knew what it meant , and did not go with his brothers . 
No , he went home to his father , and cured his blindness and as for his brothers , they never returned again . 
THE ENCHANTED KNIFE Once upon a time there lived a young man who vowed that he would never marry any girl who had not royal blood in her veins . 
One day he plucked up all his courage and went to the palace to ask the emperor for his daughter . 
In eight days you must manage to tame and bring to me three horses that have never felt a master . 
The first is pure white , the second a foxy red with a black head , the third coal black with a white head and feet . 
And besides that , you must also bring as a present to the empress , my wife , as much gold as the three horses can carry . 
The sun had hardly risen the following morning when the princess's nurse brought the young man to her apartments . 
Neither spoke for some minutes , but stood holding each other's hands for joy , till at last they both cried out that nothing but death should part them . 
Then the maiden said 'Take my horse , and ride straight through the wood towards the sunset till you come to a hill with three peaks . 
When you get there , turn first to the right and then to the left , and you will find yourself in a sun meadow , where many horses are feeding . 
Out of these you must pick out the three described to you by my father . 
When you have them safely , look about till you see a cypress tree , whose roots are of brass , whose boughs are of silver , and whose leaves are of gold . 
Go to it , and cut away the roots with your knife , and you will come to countless bags of gold . 
Load the horses with all they can carry , and return to my father , and tell him that you have done your task , and can claim me for your wife . 
The princess had finished all she had to say , and now it depended on the young man to do his part . 
He hid the knife in the folds of his girdle , mounted his horse , and rode off in search of the meadow . 
This he found without much difficulty , but the horses were all so shy that they galloped away directly he approached them . 
Then he drew his knife , and held it up towards the sun , and directly there shone such a glory that the whole meadow was bathed in it . 
From all sides the horses rushed pressing round , and each one that passed him fell on its knees to do him honour . 
But he only chose from them all the three that the emperor had described . 
These he secured by a silken rope to his own horse , and then looked about for the cypress tree . 
It was standing by itself in one corner , and in a moment he was beside it , tearing away the earth with his knife . 
Deeper and deeper he dug , till far down , below the roots of brass , his knife struck upon the buried treasure , which lay heaped up in bags all around . 
And when the emperor saw him , he wondered , but never guessed how it was the young man had been too clever for him , till the betrothal ceremony was over . 
Then he asked his newly made son in law what dowry he would require with his bride . 
JESPER WHO HERDED THE HARES There was once a king who ruled over a kingdom somewhere between sunrise and sunset . 
But as it was all his own , he was very proud of it , and often wondered how it would get along without him . 
He had only one child , and that was a daughter , so he foresaw that she must be provided with a husband who would be fit to be king after him . 
Where to find one rich enough and clever enough to be a suitable match for the princess was what troubled him , and often kept him awake at night . 
At last he devised a plan . 
The pearls , he thought , could only be brought by a very wealthy man , and the tasks would require unusual talents to accomplish them . 
There were plenty who tried to fulfil the terms which the king proposed . 
At the end of several weeks the stream of suitors began to fall off , and still there was no prospect of a suitable son in law . 
Peter and Paul were grown men , while Jesper was just coming to manhood . 
The two elder brothers were much bigger and stronger than the youngest , but Jesper was far the cleverest of the three , though neither Peter nor Paul would admit this . 
It was a fact , however , as we shall see in the course of our story . 
One day the fisherman went out fishing , and among his catch for the day he brought home three dozen oysters . 
When these were opened , every shell was found to contain a large and beautiful pearl . 
Hereupon the three brothers , at one and the same moment , fell upon the idea of offering themselves as suitors for the princess . 
Next morning Peter put his pearls in a little basket , and set off for the king's palace . 
'Come and help me , said the King of the Ants 'the beetles are too big for us . 
I may help you some day in return . 
'I have no time to waste on other people's affairs , said Peter 'just fight away as best you can and with that he walked off and left them . 
A little further on the way he met an old woman . 
'Good morning , young man , said she 'you are early astir . 
What have you got in your basket ? 'Cinders , said Peter promptly , and walked on , adding to himself , 'Take that for being so inquisitive . 
'Very well , cinders be it , the old woman called after him , but he pretended not to hear her . 
Very soon he reached the palace , and was at once brought before the king . 
To his father and brothers , however , he gave no account of his attempt , except that it had been a failure . 
Next day Paul set out to try his luck . 
'Come and help me , said the King of the Ants 'we got the worst of it yesterday . 
I may help you some day in return . 
'I don't care though you get the worst of it to day too , said Paul . 
'I have more important business on hand than mixing myself up in your quarrels . 
So he walked on , and presently the same old woman met him . 
'Very well , cinders be it , the old woman shouted after him , but Paul neither looked back nor answered her . 
The third day came , and with it came Jesper's turn to try his fortune . 
Jesper made no reply , but put his pearls in the little basket and walked off . 
'Come and help us , said their king to Jesper , 'or we shall be completely defeated . 
I may help you some day in return . 
'Just call on me when you want me , he said , 'where ever you are . 
I'm never far away from anywhere , and if I can possibly help you , I shall not fail to do it . 
Jesper was inclined to laugh at this , but he kept a grave face , said he would remember the offer , and walked on . 
At a turn of the road he suddenly came upon the old woman . 
'Good morning , said she 'what have YOU got in your basket ? 'Pearls , said Jesper 'I'm going to the palace to win the princess with them . 
And in case she might not believe him , he lifted the cover and let her see them . 
'Beautiful , said the old woman 'very beautiful indeed but they will go a very little way towards winning the princess , unless you can also perform the tasks that are set you . 
However , she said , 'I see you have brought something with you to eat . 
Won't you give that to me you are sure to get a good dinner at the palace . 
'Yes , of course , said Jesper , 'I hadn't thought of that' and he handed over the whole of his lunch to the old woman . 
He had already taken a few steps on the way again , when the old woman called him back . 
'Here , she said 'take this whistle in return for your lunch . 
Jesper thanked her for the whistle , though he did not see of what use it was to be to him just then , and held on his way to the palace . 
When Jesper presented his pearls to the king there were exclamations of wonder and delight from everyone who saw them . 
'Never mind , said she , 'you can easily set him such tasks as he will never be able to perform we shall soon get rid of him . 
'Yes , of course , said the king 'really I forget things nowadays , with all the bustle we have had of late . 
That day Jesper dined with the king and queen and their nobles , and at night was put into a bedroom grander than anything of the kind he had ever seen . 
In spite of the softness of the bed , he was very glad when morning came at last . 
After breakfast was over , the king said to Jesper , 'Just come with me , and I'll show you what you must do first . 
He led him out to the barn , and there in the middle of the floor was a large pile of grain . 
'Here , said the king , 'you have a mixed heap of wheat , barley , oats , and rye , a sackful of each . 
I shall lock the door , so that no one can get in to assist you , and I shall return at the appointed time to see how you have succeeded . 
The king walked off , and Jesper looked in despair at the task before him . 
Then he sat down and tried what he could do at it , but it was soon very clear that single handed he could never hope to accomplish it in the time . 
Assistance was out of the question unless , he suddenly thought unless the King of the Ants could help . 
On him he began to call , and before many minutes had passed that royal personage made his appearance . 
Jesper explained the trouble he was in . 
'Is that all ? said the ant 'we shall soon put that to rights . 
Jesper watched them for a while , but through the continual movement of the little creatures , and his not having slept during the previous night , he soon fell sound asleep . 
'Wonderful , said he 'I couldn't have believed it possible . 
However , the hardest is yet to come , as you will see to morrow . 
Jesper thought so too when the next day's task was set before him . 
'Now , said the king , 'as he walked away , 'let's see what your cleverness can do here . 
Jesper stared round him in bewilderment , and having nothing better to do with his hands , thrust them into his pockets , as he was in the habit of doing . 
Here he found something which turned out to be the whistle given to him by the old woman . 
After that , Jesper allowed them to run about as they pleased , so long as they stayed in the field . 
It was therefore with great surprise and annoyance that he now learned of the mysterious return of the hares and the likelihood of Jesper carrying out his task with success . 
'One of them must be got out of his hands by hook or crook , said he . 
'I'll go and see the queen about it she's good at devising plans . 
A little later , a girl in a shabby dress came into the field and walked up to Jesper . 
'Do give me one of those hares , she said 'we have just got visitors who are going to stay to dinner , and there's nothing we can give them to eat . 
'I can't , said Jesper . 
'For one thing , they're not mine for another , a great deal depends on my having them all here in the evening . 
begged so hard for one of them that at last he said 'Very well give me a kiss and you shall have one of them . 
He could see that she didn't quite care for this , but she consented to the bargain , and gave him the kiss , and went away with a hare in her apron . 
Not long after this the hare herd had another visit . 
This time it was a stout old woman in the dress of a peasant , who also was after a hare to provide a dinner for unexpected visitors . 
'Fie , said she 'what a ridiculous thing to ask anyone to do just think what the neighbours would say if they saw me . 
They would think I had taken leave of my senses . 
'Just as you like , said Jesper 'you know best whether you want the hare or not . 
As soon as she had left the field , the whistle was sounded again , and back came long legs and ears at a marvellous speed . 
'Young man , said he , 'I want one of those hares name your price , but I MUST have one of them . 
'All right , said Jesper 'you can have one at an easy rate . 
Just stand on your head , whack your heels together , and cry Hurrah , and the hare is yours . 
Of course , it wasn't long in coming back again , like the others . 
Evening came , and home came Jesper with the hundred hares behind him . 
Great was the wonder over all the palace , and the king and queen seemed very much put out , but it was noticed that the princess actually smiled to Jesper . 
'Well , well , said the king 'you have done that very well indeed . 
If you are as successful with a little task which I shall give you to morrow we shall consider the matter settled , and you shall marry the princess . 
Next day it was announced that the task would be performed in the great hall of the palace , and everyone was invited to come and witness it . 
The king and queen sat on their thrones , with the princess beside them , and the lords and ladies were all round the hall . 
'Now , said the king , 'you must tell us as many undoubted truths as will fill that tub , or you can't have the princess . 
'But how are we to know when the tub is full ? said Jesper . 
'Don't you trouble about that , said the king 'that's my part of the business . 
'Yesterday , he said , 'when I was herding the hares , there came to me a girl , in a shabby dress , and begged me to give her one of them . 
She got the hare , but she had to give me a kiss for it AND THAT GIRL WAS THE PRINCESS . 
Isn't that true ? said he , looking at her . 
The princess blushed and looked very uncomfortable , but had to admit that it was true . 
'That hasn't filled much of the tub , said the king . 
'After that , said Jesper , 'a stout old woman , in a peasant's dress , came and begged for a hare . 
Before she got it , she had to walk round me on tiptoe , turn up her eyes , and cackle like a hen AND THAT OLD WOMAN WAS THE QUEEN . 
Isn't that true , now ? The queen turned very red and hot , but couldn't deny it . 
'H m , said the king 'that is something , but the tub isn't full yet . 
To the queen he whispered , 'I didn't think you would be such a fool . 
'What did YOU do ? she whispered in return . 
'Do you suppose I would do anything for HIM ? said the king , and then hurriedly ordered Jesper to go on . 
'In the next place , said Jesper , 'there came a fat old fellow on the same errand . 
THE UNDERGROUND WORKERS On a bitter night somewhere between Christmas and the New Year , a man set out to walk to the neighbouring village . 
Here he resolved to spend the night , thinking that when the sun rose he would be able to see his path again . 
So he tucked his legs snugly under him like a hedgehog , rolled himself up in his sheepskin , and went to sleep . 
The sleeper slowly raised his head from his furs , and opened his heavy eyes . 
Near him stood a long thin man , holding in his hand a young fir tree taller than himself . 
'Come with me , said the man , 'a little way off we have made a large fire , and you will rest far better there than out upon this moor . 
The sleeper did not wait to be asked twice , but rose at once and followed the stranger . 
The snow was falling so fast that he could not see three steps in front of him , till the stranger waved his staff , when the drifts parted before them . 
Very soon they reached a wood , and saw the friendly glow of a fire . 
'What is your name ? asked the stranger , suddenly turning round . 
'I am called Hans , the son of Long Hans , said the peasant . 
In front of the fire three men were sitting clothed in white , just as if it was summer , and for about thirty feet all round winter had been banished . 
The moss was dry and the plants green , while the grass seemed all alive with the hum of bees and cockchafers . 
But above the noise the son of Long Hans could hear the whistling of the wind and the crackling of the branches as they fell beneath the weight of the snow . 
Then , after a hot drink which warmed both their hearts , they lay down on the ground . 
The stranger talked for a little to the other men in a language Hans did not understand , and after listening for a short time he once more fell asleep . 
When he awoke , neither wood nor fire was to be seen , and he did not know where he was . 
Suddenly a loud noise struck on his ear , and he felt the earth tremble beneath his feet . 
Hans listened for a moment , then resolved to go towards the place where the sound came from , hoping he might come across some human being . 
He found himself at length at the mouth of a rocky cave in which a fire seemed burning . 
The little blacksmiths were clad in leather aprons , which covered them from their necks to their feet in front , and left their backs naked . 
The master no longer wore the white garments of the day before , but a black jerkin , held in its place by a leathern girdle with huge clasps . 
From time to time he would give his workmen a sign with his staff , for it was useless to speak amid such a noise . 
If any of them had noticed that there was a stranger present they took no heed of him , but went on with what they were doing . 
After some hours' hard labour came the time for rest , and they all flung their hammers to the ground and trooped out of the cave . 
Then the master got down from his seat and said to Hans 'I saw you come in , but the work was pressing , and I could not stop to speak to you . 
To day you must be my guest , and I will show you something of the way in which I live . 
Wait here for a moment , while I lay aside these dirty clothes . 
With these words he unlocked a door in the cave , and bade Hans pass in before him . 
Hans wondered to see these vast riches , which might have bought all the kingdoms of the world , and lay buried , useless , he thought , to anyone . 
'And it is exactly for that reason , answered he , 'that I must keep these riches out of their way . 
The whole world would sink to idleness if men were not forced to earn their daily bread . 
It is only through work and care that man can ever hope to be good for anything . 
To none comes wealth without trouble we must first dig out the gold and mix the grains with earth , clay , and sand . 
Then , after long and hard seeking , it will be found in this state , by those who have good luck or much patience . 
But , my friend , the hour of dinner is at hand . 
If you wish to remain in this place , and feast your eyes on this gold , then stay till I call you . 
In his absence Hans wandered from one treasure chamber to another , sometimes trying to break off a little lump of gold , but never able to do it . 
After awhile his host came back , but so changed that Hans could not believe it was really he . 
The lord of all this treasure locked the doors and put the keys in his pocket , then led Hans into another room , where dinner was laid for them . 
Table and seats were all of silver , while the dishes and plates were of solid gold . 
Directly they sat down , a dozen little servants appeared to wait on them , which they did so cleverly and so quickly that Hans could hardly believe they had no wings . 
As they did not reach as high as the table , they were often obliged to jump and hop right on to the top to get at the dishes . 
'Between Christmas and the New Year , said he , 'I often amuse myself by wandering about the earth watching the doings of men and learning something about them . 
But as far as I have seen and heard I cannot speak well of them . 
The greater part of them are always quarrelling and complaining of each other's faults , while nobody thinks of his own . 
Hans tried to deny the truth of these words , but he could not do it , and sat silent , hardly listening to what his friend was saying . 
Then he went to sleep in his chair , and knew nothing of what was happening . 
Wonderful dreams came to him during his sleep , where the bars of gold continually hovered before his eyes . 
He felt stronger than he had ever felt during his waking moments , and lifted two bars quite easily on to his back . 
He did this so often that at length his strength seemed exhausted , and he sank almost breathless on the ground . 
Then he heard the sound of cheerful voices , and the song of the blacksmiths as they blew their bellows he even felt as if he saw the sparks flashing before his eyes . 
In this way Hans suddenly became rich rich enough to buy a property of his own . 
It did not take him long to find what he wanted , and after he had paid for it there was plenty of money left over . 
Fairies and their like belong to every country and every age , and no doubt we should see plenty of them now if we only knew how . 
In a large town in Germany there lived , some couple of hundred years ago , a cobbler and his wife . 
They were poor and hard working . 
The man sat all day in a little stall at the street corner and mended any shoes that were brought him . 
The couple had one boy called Jem . 
A handsome , pleasant faced boy of twelve , and tall for his age . 
Come , buy , buy ! As he cried an old woman came across the Market Place . 
She looked very torn and ragged , and had a small sharp face , all wrinkled , with red eyes , and a thin hooked nose which nearly met her chin . 
She leant on a tall stick and limped and shuffled and stumbled along as if she were going to fall on her nose at any moment . 
In this fashion she came along till she got to the stall where Jem and his mother were , and there she stopped . 
'Are you Hannah the herb seller ? she asked in a croaky voice as her head shook to and fro . 
'Yes , I am , was the answer . 
'Can I serve you ? 'We'll see we'll see ! Let me look at those herbs . 
The cobbler's wife felt much disgusted at seeing her wares treated like this , but she dared not speak . 
When the old hag had turned over the whole basket she muttered , 'Bad stuff , bad stuff much better fifty years ago all bad . 
This made Jem very angry 'You are a very rude old woman , he cried out . 
'Don't waggle your head in that horrid way , begged Jem anxiously . 
'Then you sha'n't have any , but a head stuck close between your shoulders so that it may be quite sure not to fall off . 
'Don't talk such nonsense to the child , said the mother at last . 
'If you wish to buy , please make haste , as you are keeping other customers away . 
'Very well , I will do as you ask , said the old woman , with an angry look . 
'I will buy these six cabbages , but , as you see , I can only walk with my stick and can carry nothing . 
Let your boy carry them home for me and I'll pay him for his trouble . 
It took her more than half an hour to get to a distant part of the little town , but at last she stopped in front of a small tumble down house . 
She drew a rusty old hook from her pocket and stuck it into a little hole in the door , which suddenly flew open . 
The old woman took out a silver whistle and blew it till the sound rang through the house . 
'Where are my slippers , lazy crew ? cried the old woman , and hit about with her stick . 
'How long am I to stand waiting here ? They rushed upstairs again and returned with a pair of cocoa nuts lined with leather , which she put on her feet . 
Now all limping and shuffling was at an end . 
She threw away her stick and walked briskly across the glass floor , drawing little Jem after her . 
'Sit down , said the old woman pleasantly , and she pushed Jem into a corner of a sofa and put a table close in front of him . 
'Sit down , you've had a long walk and a heavy load to carry , and I must give you something for your trouble . 
Wait a bit , and I'll give you some nice soup , which you'll remember as long as you live . 
So saying , she whistled again . 
First came in guinea pigs in men's clothing . 
They had tied on large kitchen aprons , and in their belts were stuck carving knives and sauce ladles and such things . 
After them hopped in a number of squirrels . 
They too walked on their hind legs , wore full Turkish trousers , and little green velvet caps on their heads . 
Here the old woman was bustling about , and Jem could see that she was cooking something very special for him . 
At last the broth began to bubble and boil , and she drew off the saucepan and poured its contents into a silver bowl , which she set before Jem . 
'There , my boy , said she , 'eat this soup and then you'll have everything which pleased you so much about me . 
And you shall be a clever cook too , but the real herb no , the REAL herb you'll never find . 
Why had your mother not got it in her basket ? The child could not think what she was talking about , but he quite understood the soup , which tasted most delicious . 
His mother had often given him nice things , but nothing had ever seemed so good as this . 
The smell of the herbs and spices rose from the bowl , and the soup tasted both sweet and sharp at the same time , and was very strong . 
As he was finishing it the guinea pigs lit some Arabian incense , which gradually filled the room with clouds of blue vapour . 
They grew thicker and thicker and the scent nearly overpowered the boy . 
Strange dreams came to him . 
First he learned to clean her cocoa nut shoes with oil and to rub them up . 
Then he learnt to catch the little sun moths and rub them through the finest sieves , and the flour from them he made into soft bread for the toothless old woman . 
In this way he passed from one kind of service to another , spending a year in each , till in the fourth year he was promoted to the kitchen . 
Here he worked his way up from under scullion to head pastrycook , and reached the greatest perfection . 
He did this quite according to rule . 
He wrung the chicken's neck , plunged it into boiling water , carefully plucked out all the feathers , and rubbed the skin nice and smooth . 
Then he went to fetch the herbs to stuff it with . 
In the store room he noticed a half opened cupboard which he did not remember having seen before . 
He peeped in and saw a lot of baskets from which came a strong and pleasant smell . 
He opened one and found a very uncommon herb in it . 
The stems and leaves were a bluish green , and above them was a little flower of a deep bright red , edged with yellow . 
He gazed at the flower , smelt it , and found it gave the same strong strange perfume which came from the soup the old woman had made him . 
'Well , what odd dreams one does have to be sure ! he said to himself . 
'Why , I could have sworn I had been a squirrel , a companion of guinea pigs and such creatures , and had become a great cook , too . 
He was quite puzzled when he reached the market place . 
'What do you want , you hideous dwarf ? she cried 'get away I can't bear such tricks . 
'But , mother dear , what's the matter with you ? repeated Jem , quite frightened . 
Why do you want to drive your son away ? 'I have said already , get away , replied Hannah , quite angrily . 
'You won't get anything out of me by your games , you monstrosity . 
'Oh dear , oh dear ! she must be wandering in her mind , murmured the lad to himself . 
'How can I manage to get her home ? Dearest mother , do look at me close . 
Can't you see I am your own son Jem ? 'Well , did you ever hear such impudence ? asked Hannah , turning to a neighbour . 
Poor Jem did not know what to make of it all . 
'Now I'll see whether he will know me , thought he . 
'I'll stand by the door and talk to him . 
When he got to the stall he stood in the doorway and looked in . 
'How do you do ? 'Very ill , little sir , replied the father , to Jem's surprise , for he did not seem to know him . 
'Business does not go well . 
I am all alone , and am getting old , and a workman is costly . 
'But haven't you a son who could learn your trade by degrees ? asked Jem . 
'I had one he was called Jem , and would have been a tall sturdy lad of twenty by this time , and able to help me well . 
Well , well ! so goes the world ! 'But where is your son ? asked Jem , with a trembling voice . 
'Heaven only knows ! replied the man 'seven years ago he was stolen from the market place , and we have heard no more of him . 
'SEVEN YEARS AGO ! cried Jem , with horror . 
'Yes , indeed , seven years ago , though it seems but yesterday that my wife came back howling and crying , and saying the child had not come back all day . 
I always thought and said that something of the kind would happen . 
But I used to say , Take care the town is large , there are plenty of bad people in it keep a sharp eye on Jem . 
'And that was seven years ago , you say ? 'Yes , seven years we had him cried we went from house to house . 
Many knew the pretty boy , and were fond of him , but it was all in vain . 
As he thought it over rage filled his heart . 
Here is a nice piece and think what a protection it would be to you . 
As it is , you must be constantly knocking up against things . 
The lad was dumb with fright . 
It was thick , and quite two hands long . 
Besides , I have none here , and if you must have one you had better ask Urban the barber , who lives over the way , to lend you his . 
So saying , he gently pushed Jem into the street , shut the door , and went back to his work . 
Jem stepped across to the barber , whom he had known in old days . 
'You are a pretty youth , with your swan like neck and white hands and small nose . 
No wonder you are rather vain but look as long as you like at yourself . 
So spoke the barber , and a titter ran round the room . 
Meantime Jem had stepped up to the mirror , and stood gazing sadly at his reflection . 
Tears came to his eyes . 
'No wonder you did not know your child again , dear mother , thought he 'he wasn't like this when you were so proud of his looks . 
His legs were small and spindly , but his arms were as large as those of a well grown man , with large brown hands , and long skinny fingers . 
Then he remembered the morning when he had first seen the old woman , and her threats to him , and without saying a word he left the barber's shop . 
He determined to go again to his mother , and found her still in the market place . 
Hannah did not know what to think the story was so strange and it seemed impossible to think her pretty boy and this hideous dwarf were the same . 
At last she decided to go and talk to her husband about it . 
She gathered up her baskets , told Jem to follow her , and went straight to the cobbler's stall . 
'Look here , said she , 'this creature says he is our lost son . 
He has been telling me how he was stolen seven years ago , and bewitched by a fairy . 
'Indeed ! interrupted the cobbler angrily . 
The poor little dwarf roamed about all the rest of the day without food or drink , and at night was glad to lie down and sleep on the steps of a church . 
He woke next morning with the first rays of light , and began to think what he could do to earn a living . 
Suddenly he remembered that he was an excellent cook , and he determined to look out for a place . 
As soon as it was quite daylight he set out for the palace , for he knew that the grand duke who reigned over the country was fond of good things . 
Don't you know his highness is still asleep ? Some of the servants ran off at once , and others pointed out Jem . 
Indeed , the steward found it hard to keep himself from laughing at the comic sight , but he ordered the servants off and led the dwarf into his own room . 
When he heard him ask for a place as cook , he said 'You make some mistake , my lad . 
I think you want to be the grand duke's dwarf , don't you ? 'No , sir , replied Jem . 
'I am an experienced cook , and if you will kindly take me to the head cook he may find me of some use . 
'Well , as you will but believe me , you would have an easier place as the grand ducal dwarf . 
So saying , the head steward led him to the head cook's room . 
But the dwarf was not to be put off . 
'What matters an extra egg or two , or a little butter or flour and spice more or less , in such a house as this ? said he . 
'Name any dish you wish to have cooked , and give me the materials I ask for , and you shall see . 
He said much more , and at last persuaded the head cook to give him a trial . 
They went into the kitchen a huge place with at least twenty fireplaces , always alight . 
A little stream of clear water ran through the room , and live fish were kept at one end of it . 
Everything in the kitchen was of the best and most beautiful kind , and swarms of cooks and scullions were busy preparing dishes . 
When the head cook came in with Jem everyone stood quite still . 
'What has his highness ordered for luncheon ? asked the head cook . 
'Sir , his highness has graciously ordered a Danish soup and red Hamburg dumplings . 
'Good , said the head cook . 
'Have you heard , and do you feel equal to making these dishes ? Not that you will be able to make the dumplings , for they are a secret receipt . 
'Is that all ! said Jem , who had often made both dishes . 
And now Jem was allowed to try his hand . 
He could not nearly reach up to the kitchen range , but by putting a wide plank on two chairs he managed very well . 
All the cooks stood round to look on , and could not help admiring the quick , clever way in which he set to work . 
At last , when all was ready , Jem ordered the two dishes to be put on the fire till he gave the word . 
'First rate , indeed ! he exclaimed . 
'You certainly are a master of the art , little fellow , and the herb heal well gives a particular relish . 
As he was speaking , the duke's valet came to say that his highness was ready for luncheon , and it was served at once in silver dishes . 
The head cook took Jem to his own room , but had hardly had time to question him before he was ordered to go at once to the grand duke . 
He hurried on his best clothes and followed the messenger . 
The grand duke was looking much pleased . 
He had emptied the dishes , and was wiping his mouth as the head cook came in . 
'Who cooked my luncheon to day ? asked he . 
'I must say your dumplings are always very good but I don't think I ever tasted anything so delicious as they were to day . 
Of course , Jem could not say he had been turned into a squirrel , but he said he was without parents and had been taught cooking by an old woman . 
'If you will stay with me , said the grand duke , 'you shall have fifty ducats a year , besides a new coat and a couple of pairs of trousers . 
You must undertake to cook my luncheon yourself and to direct what I shall have for dinner , and you shall be called assistant head cook . 
Jem bowed to the ground , and promised to obey his new master in all things . 
He never even grumbled at anything , had five meals instead of three , thought everything delicious , and grew fatter daily . 
And so Jem lived on for two years , much respected and considered , and only saddened when he thought of his parents . 
One day passed much like another till the following incident happened . 
One morning he was in the goose market , looking for some nice fat geese . 
No one thought of laughing at his appearance now he was known as the duke's special body cook , and every goose woman felt honoured if his nose turned her way . 
He noticed one woman sitting apart with a number of geese , but not crying or praising them like the rest . 
'That goose is ill , said he 'I must make haste to kill and dress her . 
But the goose answered him quite distinctly 'Squeeze too tight And I'll bite , If my neck a twist you gave I'd bring you to an early grave . 
Quite frightened , the dwarf set down the cage , and the goose gazed at him with sad wise looking eyes and sighed again . 
'Good gracious ! said Long Nose . 
'So you can speak , Mistress Goose . 
I never should have thought it ! Well , don't be anxious . 
I know better than to hurt so rare a bird . 
Ah ! no one ever thought that Mimi , the daughter of the great Weatherbold , would be killed for the ducal table . 
'Be quite easy , Mistress Mimi , comforted Jem . 
'As sure as I'm an honest man and assistant head cook to his highness , no one shall harm you . 
I will make a hutch for you in my own rooms , and you shall be well fed , and I'll come and talk to you as much as I can . 
I'll tell all the other cooks that I am fattening up a goose on very special food for the grand duke , and at the first good opportunity I will set you free . 
The goose thanked him with tears in her eyes , and the dwarf kept his word . 
He killed the other two geese for dinner , but built a little shed for Mimi in one of his rooms , under the pretence of fattening her under his own eye . 
He spent all his spare time talking to her and comforting her , and fed her on all the daintiest dishes . 
They confided their histories to each other , and Jem learnt that the goose was the daughter of the wizard Weatherbold , who lived on the island of Gothland . 
He sent for Long Nose and said to him 'Now is the time to show what you can really do . 
This prince who is staying with me has better dinners than any one except myself , and is a great judge of cooking . 
As long as he is here you must take care that my table shall be served in a manner to surprise him constantly . 
At the same time , on pain of my displeasure , take care that no dish shall appear twice . 
Get everything you wish and spare nothing . 
If you want to melt down gold and precious stones , do so . 
I would rather be a poor man than have to blush before him . 
The dwarf bowed and answered 'Your highness shall be obeyed . 
I will do all in my power to please you and the prince . 
The prince had been a fortnight with the grand duke , and enjoyed himself mightily . 
They ate five times a day , and the duke had every reason to be content with the dwarf's talents , for he saw how pleased his guest looked . 
On the fifteenth day the duke sent for the dwarf and presented him to the prince . 
'You are a wonderful cook , said the prince , 'and you certainly know what is good . 
All the time I have been here you have never repeated a dish , and all were excellent . 
However , you will have to invent some other farewell dish , for the pasty must be on my table to morrow . 
'As your highness pleases , said the dwarf , and took leave . 
But it did not please HIM at all . 
The moment of disgrace seemed at hand , for he had no idea how to make this pasty . 
He went to his rooms very sad . 
I know the dish quite well we often had it at home , and I can guess pretty well how it was made . 
Then she told him what to put in , adding 'I think that will be all right , and if some trifle is left out perhaps they won't find it out . 
Sure enough , next day a magnificent pasty all wreathed round with flowers was placed on the table . 
Jem himself put on his best clothes and went into the dining hall . 
As he entered the head carver was in the act of cutting up the pie and helping the duke and his guests . 
The grand duke took a large mouthful and threw up his eyes as he swallowed it . 
'Oh ! oh ! this may well be called the Queen of Pasties , and at the same time my dwarf must be called the king of cooks . 
The grand duke flew into a rage . 
'Dog of a cook , he shouted 'how dare you serve me so ? I've a good mind to chop off your great head as a punishment . 
'For mercy's sake , don't , your highness ! I made the pasty according to the best rules nothing has been left out . 
Ask the prince what else I should have put in . 
'I was sure you could not make this dish as well as my cook , friend Long Nose . 
The grand duke was more furious than ever . 
'But I WILL taste it to perfection , he roared . 
'Either the pasty must be made properly to morrow or this rascal's head shall come off . 
Go , scoundrel , I give you twenty four hours respite . 
The poor dwarf hurried back to his room , and poured out his grief to the goose . 
'Oh , is that all , said she , 'then I can help you , for my father taught me to know all plants and herbs . 
Luckily this is a new moon just now , for the herb only springs up at such times . 
But why do you ask ? 'Because the herb only grows near the roots of chestnut trees , replied Mimi 'so let us lose no time in finding it . 
Take me under your arm and put me down out of doors , and I'll hunt for it . 
The goose hunted everywhere , but in vain . 
'Look , cried he , 'let us try our luck there . 
The goose fluttered and skipped in front , and he ran after as fast as his little legs could carry him . 
The dwarf stood gazing at the plant . 
It gave out a strong sweet scent , which reminded him of the day of his enchantment . 
The stems and leaves were a bluish green , and it bore a dark , bright red flower with a yellow edge . 
'What a wonder ! cried Long Nose . 
'I do believe this is the very herb which changed me from a squirrel into my present miserable form . 
Shall I try an experiment ? 'Not yet , said the goose . 
'Take a good handful of the herb with you , and let us go to your rooms . 
We will collect all your money and clothes together , and then we will test the powers of the herb . 
So they went back to Jem's rooms , and here he gathered together some fifty ducats he had saved , his clothes and shoes , and tied them all up in a bundle . 
Then he plunged his face into the bunch of herbs , and drew in their perfume . 
The goose looked on in amazement . 
'Oh , how big and how beautiful you are ! she cried . 
'Thank heaven , you are quite changed . 
Jem folded his hands in thanks , as his heart swelled with gratitude . 
But his joy did not make him forget all he owed to his friend Mimi . 
'I owe you my life and my release , he said , 'for without you I should never have regained my natural shape , and , indeed , would soon have been beheaded . 
I will now take you back to your father , who will certainly know how to disenchant you . 
The goose accepted his offer with joy , and they managed to slip out of the palace unnoticed by anyone . 
They got through the journey without accident , and the wizard soon released his daughter , and loaded Jem with thanks and valuable presents . 
He lost no time in hastening back to his native town , and his parents were very ready to recognise the handsome , well made young man as their long lost son . 
With the money given him by the wizard he opened a shop , which prospered well , and he lived long and happily . 
The prince hinted that the duke had allowed his cook to escape , and had therefore broken his word . 
The matter ended in a great war between the two princes , which was known in history as the 'Herb War . 
He went to see them three times every day first at seven o'clock , when he got up , then at three , and lastly at half past five . 
There was no plant and no vegetable which escaped his eye , but he lingered longest of all before his one date tree . 
Now the sultan had seven sons . 
Six of them he was proud of , for they were strong and manly , but the youngest he disliked , for he spent all his time among the women of the house . 
Time passed , and one day the sultan , to his great joy , saw signs of fruit on his date tree . 
And the eldest son answered , 'I will go , father , and he went . 
The first thing the youth did was to summon his slaves , and bid them beat drums all night under the date tree , for he feared to fall asleep . 
So he lay down and slept , and his slaves slept likewise . 
A few minutes went by , and a bird flew down from a neighbouring thicket , and ate all the dates , without leaving a single one . 
And when the tree was stripped bare , the bird went as it had come . 
Soon after , one of the slaves woke up and looked for the dates , but there were no dates to see . 
The lad jumped up and ran to the tree to see for himself , but there was not a date anywhere . 
Then he went straight to his father , and found him sitting in his verandah with his five sons round him and the lad bowed his head . 
'Give me the news from the garden , said the sultan . 
And the youth answered , 'The dates have all been eaten by some bird there is not one left . 
And the sultan replied , 'A son like you is only good for eating and sleeping . 
I have no use for you . 
Go your way , and when my date tree bears again , I will send another son perhaps he will watch better . 
So he waited many months , till the tree was covered with more dates than any tree had ever borne before . 
'Good , said the sultan . 
The youth went to the tree , and lay down and slept . 
And about midnight he arose to look at the tree , and the dates were all there beautiful dates , swinging in bunches . 
'Ah , my father will have a feast , indeed , thought he . 
'What a fool my brother was not to take more heed ! Now he is in disgrace , and we know him no more . 
Well , I will watch till the bird comes . 
I should like to see what manner of bird it is . 
And he sat and read till the cocks crew and it grew light , and the dates were still on the tree . 
'Oh my father will have his dates they are all safe now , he thought to himself . 
'I will make myself comfortable against this tree , and he leaned against the trunk , and sleep came on him , and the bird flew down and ate all the dates . 
When the sun rose , the head man came and looked for the dates , and there were no dates . 
And he woke the young man , and said to him , 'Look at the tree . 
And the young man looked , and there were no dates . 
And his ears were stopped , and his legs trembled , and his tongue grew heavy at the thought of the sultan . 
And the young man said , 'The dates are not ripe yet you must return to morrow . 
And the slave went with him to the palace , where the sultan was sitting with his four sons . 
'Good greeting , master ! said the youth . 
And the sultan answered , 'Have you seen the man I sent ? 'I have , master but the dates are not yet ripe . 
But the sultan did not believe his words , and said 'This second year I have eaten no dates , because of my sons . 
But year by year passed , and he never got them . 
But whatever they did , the result was always the same . 
Towards dawn they fell asleep , and the bird ate the dates on the tree . 
The sixth year had come , and the dates on the tree were thicker than ever . 
And the head man went to the palace and told the sultan what he had seen . 
Now the youngest son was sitting in the kitchen , as was his custom , when he heard his father say those words . 
And he rose up , and went to his father , and knelt before him . 
'Father , this year you shall eat dates , cried he . 
'And on the tree are five great bunches , and each bunch I will give to a separate nation , for the nations in the town are five . 
This time , I will watch the date tree myself . 
But his father and his mother laughed heartily , and thought his words idle talk . 
One day , news was brought to the sultan that the dates were ripe , and he ordered one of his men to go and watch the tree . 
'Let the child go , Master , said his wife 'perhaps we shall eat the dates or perhaps we shall not but let him go . 
And the sultan answered 'I do not refuse to let him go , but my heart distrusts him . 
'Go then , said his father . 
When the boy reached the garden , he told the slaves to leave him , and to return home themselves and sleep . 
When he was alone , he laid himself down and slept fast till one o'clock , when he arose , and sat opposite the date tree . 
Then he took some Indian corn out of one fold of his dress , and some sandy grit out of another . 
And he chewed the corn till he felt he was growing sleepy , and then he put some grit into his mouth , and that kept him awake till the bird came . 
Then the boy stole softly up , and caught it by the wing . 
The bird turned and flew quickly away , but the boy never let go , not even when they soared high into the air . 
But the boy answered , 'Wherever you go , I will go with you . 
You cannot get rid of me . 
'I did not eat your dates , persisted the bird , 'and the day is dawning . 
Leave me to go my way . 
And my father's heart will rejoice . 
'Well , if you will not leave me , I will throw you off , said the bird . 
So it flew up higher still so high that the earth shone like one of the other stars . 
'How much of you will be left if you fall from here ? asked the bird . 
'If I die , I die , said the boy , 'but I will not leave you . 
And the bird saw it was no use talking , and went down to the earth again . 
'Here you are at home , so let me go my way , it begged once more 'or at least make a covenant with me . 
'What covenant ? said the boy . 
'Save me from the sun , replied the bird , 'and I will save you from rain . 
And the boy answered , 'Well , I agree go your way . 
When you call me , if it is from the depths of the sea , I will come . 
The lad watched the bird out of sight then he went straight to the date tree . 
And when he saw the dates his heart was glad , and his body felt stronger and his eyes brighter than before . 
What ate you will eat you no more . 
'What is it ? What is it , head man ? cried they . 
'Is it true , head man ? 'Oh yes , it is true , but let him sleep till each man has brought forth a present . 
He who has fowls , let him take fowls he who has a goat , let him take a goat he who has rice , let him take rice . 
And the people did as he had said . 
Then they took the drum , and went to the tree where the boy lay sleeping . 
And they picked him up , and carried him away , with horns and clarionets and drums , with clappings of hands and shrieks of joy , straight to his father's house . 
And he called his wife to see what her son had done , and ordered his soldiers to take the boy and bring him to his father . 
'What news , my son ? said he . 
'News ? I have no news , except that if you will open your mouth you shall see what dates taste like . 
And he plucked a date , and put it into his father's mouth . 
'Ah ! You are indeed my son , cried the sultan . 
'You do not take after those fools , those good for nothings . 
And it will not come again , neither for its life , nor for your life , nor for the lives of your children . 
'Oh , once I had six sons , and now I have only one . 
It is you , whom I called a fool , who have given me the dates as for the others , I want none of them . 
So they all lived quietly at home , till the sultan's cat went and caught a calf . 
And the owner of the calf went and told the sultan , but he answered , 'The cat is mine , and the calf mine , and the man dared not complain further . 
Next it was a horse , and after that a camel , and when the sultan was told he said , 'You don't like this cat , and want me to kill it . 
And I shall not kill it . 
Let it eat the camel let it even eat a man . 
And it waited till the next day , and caught some one's child . 
And the sultan was told , 'The cat has caught a child . 
And he said , 'The cat is mine and the child mine . 
Then it caught a grown up man . 
After that the cat left the town and took up its abode in a thicket near the road . 
So if any one passed , going for water , it devoured him . 
If it saw a cow going to feed , it devoured him . 
If it saw a goat , it devoured him . 
Whatever went along that road the cat caught and ate . 
Then the people went to the sultan in a body , and told him of all the misdeeds of that cat . 
But he answered as before , 'The cat is mine and the people are mine . 
And no man dared kill the cat , which grew bolder and bolder , and at last came into the town to look for its prey . 
One day , the sultan said to his six sons , 'I am going into the country , to see how the wheat is growing , and you shall come with me . 
They went on merrily along the road , till they came to a thicket , when out sprang the cat , and killed three of the sons . 
'The cat ! The cat ! shrieked the soldiers who were with him . 
And this time the sultan said 'Seek for it and kill it . 
There was no beast , however fierce , that he was afraid of , till at last his father and mother begged him to give up the chase after the Nunda . 
But he answered 'What I have said , I cannot take back . 
If I am to die , then I die , but every day I must go and seek for the Nunda . 
And again his father offered him what he would , even the crown itself , but the boy would hear nothing , and went on his way . 
Many times his slaves came and told him , 'We have seen footprints , and to day we shall behold the Nunda . 
But the footprints never turned out to be those of the Nunda . 
They wandered far through deserts and through forests , and at length came to the foot of a great hill . 
And something in the boy's soul whispered that here was the end of all their seeking , and to day they would find the Nunda . 
Then they began their climb . 
And the boy looked , and his soul told him it was the Nunda . 
And he crept down with his spear in his hand , and then he stopped and gazed below him . 
'This MUST be the real Nunda , thought he . 
'My mother told me its ears were small , and this one's are small . 
She told me it was broad and not long , and this is broad and not long . 
She told me it had spots like a civet cat , and this has spots like a civet cat . 
Then he left the Nunda lying asleep at the foot of the mountain , and went back to his slaves . 
'We will feast to day , he said 'make cakes of batter , and bring water , and they ate and drank . 
And the slaves did as he bade them . 
It was now afternoon , and the lad said 'It is time we went after the Nunda . 
And they went till they reached the bottom and came to a great forest which lay between them and the Nunda . 
Here the lad stopped , and ordered every slave that wore two cloths to cast one away and tuck up the other between his legs . 
'For , said he , 'the wood is not a little one . 
And they answered , 'Good , master , and did as he bade them . 
Then they crawled on their hands and knees to where the Nunda lay asleep . 
Noiselessly they crept along till they were quite close to it then , at a sign from the boy , they threw their spears . 
The Nunda did not stir the spears had done their work , but a great fear seized them all , and they ran away and climbed the mountain . 
And after they had eaten and were filled , they lay down and slept till morning . 
When the dawn broke they rose up and cooked more rice , and drank more water . 
And they took it up and carried it back to the town , singing as they went , 'He has killed the Nunda , the eater of people . 
And the people bowed down to the boy and gave him presents , and loved him , because he had delivered them from the bondage of fear , and had slain the Nunda . 
THE STORY OF HASSEBU Once upon a time there lived a poor woman who had only one child , and he was a little boy called Hassebu . 
When he ceased to be a baby , and his mother thought it was time for him to learn to read , she sent him to school . 
His mother never wished him to do anything he did not like , so she said 'Well , stay at home , my son . 
And he stayed at home , eating and sleeping . 
One day the boy said to his mother 'What was my father's business ? 'He was a very learned doctor , answered she . 
'Where , then , are his books ? asked Hassebu . 
'Many days have passed , and I have thought nothing of them . 
But look inside and see if they are there . 
So Hassebu looked , and saw they were eaten by insects , all but one book , which he took away and read . 
For wood cutting was their trade , and they loaded several donkeys with the wood , and sold it in the town . 
And his mother answered , 'Very well to morrow I will buy him a donkey , and you can all go together . 
While he was sitting in the place where the wood cutters had left him , he took up a stone that lay near him , and idly dropped it on the ground . 
It rang with a hollow sound , and he called to his companions , and said , 'Come here and listen the ground seems hollow ! 'Knock again ! cried they . 
And he knocked and listened . 
'Let us dig , said the boy . 
And they dug , and found a large pit like a well , filled with honey up to the brim . 
'This is better than firewood , said they 'it will bring us more money . 
The following day each man brought every bowl and vessel he could find at home , and Hassebu filled them all with honey . 
And this he did every day for three months . 
'Very well , answered the boy , and he went down , and he scraped and scraped till there was not so much honey left as would cover the point of a needle . 
Then they arose and went into the town and told his mother as they had agreed , and she wept much and made her mourning for many months . 
So he at once began to explore the pit and found it ran back a long way underground . 
And by night he slept , and by day he took a little of the honey he had gathered and ate it and so many days passed by . 
Then suddenly the thought darted into his head , 'This scorpion must have come from somewhere ! Perhaps there is a hole . 
Then his heart felt glad , and he took out his knife and dug and dug , till the little hole became a big one , and he could wriggle himself through . 
And when he had got outside , he saw a large open space in front of him , and a path leading out of it . 
He went along the path , on and on , till he reached a large house , with a golden door standing open . 
Inside was a great hall , and in the middle of the hall a throne set with precious stones and a sofa spread with the softest cushions . 
And he went in and lay down on it , and fell fast asleep , for he had wandered far . 
By and by there was a sound of people coming through the courtyard , and the measured tramp of soldiers . 
This was the King of the Snakes coming in state to his palace . 
They entered the hall , but all stopped in surprise at finding a man lying on the king's own bed . 
When he was comfortably seated , he turned to his soldiers , and bade them wake the stranger gently . 
And they woke him , and he sat up and saw many snakes all round him , and one of them very beautiful , decked in royal robes . 
'Who are you ? asked Hassebu . 
'I am the King of the Snakes , was the reply , 'and this is my palace . 
And will you tell me who you are , and where you come from ? 'My name is Hassebu , but whence I come I know not , nor whither I go . 
For some days Hassebu rested and feasted in the palace of the King of the Snakes , and then he began to long for his mother and his own country . 
So he said to the King of the Snakes , 'Send me home , I pray . 
But the king said , 'I know it . 
If I send you home , you will come back , and kill me . 
I dare not do it . 
But Hassebu begged so hard that at last the king said , 'Swear that when you get home you will not go to bathe where many people are gathered . 
And Hassebu swore , and the king ordered his soldiers to take Hassebu in sight of his native city . 
Then he went straight to his mother's house , and the heart of his mother was glad . 
So the Vizir had set people to watch at the public baths , to see if such a man came there . 
The moment he had slipped off his robe he was taken before the Vizir , who said to him , 'Lead us to the place where the King of the Snakes lives . 
'I do not know it ! answered he , but the Vizir did not believe him , and had him bound and beaten till his back was all torn . 
Then Hassebu cried , 'Loose me , that I may take you . 
They went together a long , long way , till they reached the palace of the King of the Snakes . 
And Hassebu said to the King 'It was not I look at my back and you will see how they drove me to it . 
'Who has beaten you like this ? asked the King . 
'It was the Vizir , replied Hassebu . 
'Then I am already dead , said the King sadly , 'but you must carry me there yourself . 
And on the way the King said , 'When I arrive , I shall be killed , and my flesh will be cooked . 
But take some of the water that I am boiled in , and put it in a bottle and lay it on one side . 
The Vizir will tell you to drink it , but be careful not to do so . 
Then take some more of the water , and drink it , and you will become a great physician , and the third supply you will give to the Sultan . 
And they went their way into the town , and all happened as the King of the Snakes had said . 
And the Sultan loved Hassebu , who became a great physician , and cured many sick people . 
But he was always sorry for the poor King of the Snakes . 
Adapted from Swahili Tales , THE MAIDEN WITH THE WOODEN HELMET In a little village in the country of Japan there lived long , long ago a man and his wife . 
For many years they were happy and prosperous , but bad times came , and at last nothing was left them but their daughter , who was as beautiful as the morning . 
Each day he grew more and more wretched , till at length he took to his bed and never got up again . 
His wife and daughter wept bitterly for his loss , and it was many months before they could take pleasure in anything . 
Then one morning the mother suddenly looked at the girl , and found that she had grown still more lovely than before . 
Once her heart would have been glad at the sight , but now that they two were alone in the world she feared some harm might come of it . 
And the girl was a good girl , and listened to all her mother's lessons , and so the years passed away . 
And when she saw this the heart of the mother was at rest , and she lay back in her bed and died . 
Still she could manage to live , and that was enough . 
One day her master happened to pass through the field where she was working , and was struck by her industry and stopped to watch her . 
From this time the girl felt as if all her troubles were ended , but the worst of them was yet to come . 
Not very long after Hatschihime had become maid to the sick woman , the eldest son of the house returned home from Kioto , where he had been studying all sorts of things . 
He was tired of the splendours of the town and its pleasures , and was glad enough to be back in the green country , among the peach blossoms and sweet flowers . 
His mother answered that it was a whim , and nobody could persuade her to lay it aside whereat the young man laughed , but kept his thoughts to himself . 
But when he told his family of his resolve to marry her they were very angry , and made up all sorts of wicked stories about her . 
However , they might have spared themselves the trouble , as he knew it was only idle talk . 
'I have merely to remain firm , thought he , 'and they will have to give in . 
It was such a good match for the girl that it never occurred to anyone that she would refuse the young man , but so it was . 
At length one night her mother appeared to her in a dream , and bade her marry the young man . 
So the next time he asked her as he did nearly every day to his surprise and joy she consented . 
The parents then saw they had better make the best of a bad business , and set about making the grand preparations suitable to the occasion . 
Of course the neighbours said a great many ill natured things about the wooden helmet , but the bridegroom was too happy to care , and only laughed at them . 
But the helmet would not come , and the harder they pulled , the faster it seemed to be , till the poor girl yelled with pain . 
Hearing her cries the bridegroom ran in and soothed her , and declared that she should be married in the helmet , as she could not be married without . 
Then the ceremonies began , and the bridal pair sat together , and the cup of wine was brought them , out of which they had to drink . 
And when they had drunk it all , and the cup was empty , a wonderful thing happened . 
But the guests were less astonished at the brilliancy of the diamonds than at the beauty of the bride , which was beyond anything they had ever seen or heard of . 
THE MONKEY AND THE JELLY FISH Children must often have wondered why jelly fishes have no shells , like so many of the creatures that are washed up every day on the beach . 
The sea queen Otohime , whom you read of in the story of Uraschimatoro , grew suddenly very ill . 
The swiftest messengers were sent hurrying to fetch the best doctors from every country under the sea , but it was all of no use the queen grew rapidly worse instead of better . 
Now apes do not dwell under the sea , so a council of the wisest heads in the nation was called to consider the question how a liver could be obtained . 
It was easy enough for the council to entrust this mission to the turtle , but not at all so easy for him to fulfil it . 
At last one young monkey , bolder than the rest , stooped down and stroked the shining shell that the strange new creature wore on its back . 
The movement , gentle though it was , woke the turtle . 
With one sweep he seized the monkey's hand in his mouth , and held it tight , in spite of every effort to pull it away . 
The other apes , seeing that the turtle was not to be trifled with , ran off , leaving their young brother to his fate . 
Then the turtle said to the monkey , 'If you will be quiet , and do what I tell you , I won't hurt you . 
But you must get on my back and come with me . 
The monkey , seeing there was no help for it , did as he was bid indeed he could not have resisted , as his hand was still in the turtle's mouth . 
Delighted at having secured his prize , the turtle hastened back to the shore and plunged quickly into the water . 
He swam faster than he had ever done before , and soon reached the royal palace . 
It was during one of these attacks of sadness that a jelly fish happened to swim by . 
At that time jelly fishes had shells . 
The monkey shrank back horrified at these words and asked the jelly fish what crime he had committed that deserved death . 
Then he went away , leaving the ape cold with horror . 
He told them all the dreadful things that had happened to him , and gave a war cry which brought the rest of the tribe from the neighbouring hills . 
At a word from him they rushed in a body to the unfortunate turtle , threw him on his back , and tore off the shield that covered his body . 
Then with mocking words they hunted him to the shore , and into the sea , which he was only too thankful to reach alive . 
Faint and exhausted he entered the queen's palace for the cold of the water struck upon his naked body , and made him feel ill and miserable . 
But wretched though he was , he had to appear before the queen's advisers and tell them all that had befallen him , and how he had suffered the monkey to escape . 
But the strange thing was that no sooner had the servant set forth to perform his task than he disappeared , as if the earth had swallowed him up . 
No bells were rung , and no ringer ever came back . 
The minister did his best to keep the matter secret , but it leaked out for all that , and the end of it was that no one would enter his service . 
'I am tired of living with a miser who will not give me enough to eat and drink , said he , 'and I am ready to do all you want . 
'Very good , my son , replied the minister , 'you shall have the chance of proving your courage this very night . 
To morrow we will settle what your wages are to be . 
Hans was quite content with this proposal , and went straight into the kitchen to begin his work , not knowing that his new master was quite as stingy as his old one . 
But in Hans he had met his match , and the minister soon found to his cost that in his case at any rate a full cup did not mean an empty plate . 
Hans felt no fear at this strange sight , or was prudent enough to hide it if he did , and , going up to the table , sat down amongst the players . 
The luck was on his side , and soon the money of the other gamblers found its way from their pockets into his . 
On the stroke of midnight the cock crew , and in an instant lights , table , cards , and people all had vanished , and Hans was left alone . 
He groped about for some time , till he found the staircase in the tower , and then began to feel his way up the steps . 
On the first landing a glimmer of light came through a slit in the wall , and he saw a tiny man sitting there , without a head . 
Then he climbed higher still , and finding as he went dumb watchers sitting on every landing , treated them as he had done the first . 
'Stop , my little friend ! cried Hans . 
'That is not part of the bargain ! Perhaps you saw how your comrades walked down stairs , and you are going after them . 
At this the dwarf cried out imploringly , 'Oh , brother ! spare my life , and I promise that neither I nor my comrades will ever trouble you any more . 
I am small and weak , but who knows whether some day I shall not be able to reward you . 
Then Hans began to ring lustily . 
When the minister heard the sound of the midnight bells he wondered greatly , but rejoiced that he had at last found some one to whom he could trust this duty . 
Hans rang the bells for some time , then went to the hay loft , and fell fast asleep . 
Now it was the custom of the minister to get up very early , and to go round to make sure that the men were all at their work . 
This morning everyone was in his place except Hans , and no one knew anything about him . 
Nine o'clock came , and no Hans , but when eleven struck the minister began to fear that he had vanished like the ringers who had gone before him . 
When , however , the servants all gathered round the table for dinner , Hans at last made his appearance stretching himself and yawning . 
'Where have you been all this time ? asked the minister . 
'Asleep ! exclaimed the minister in astonishment . 
'You don't mean to tell me that you can go on sleeping till mid day ? 'That is exactly what I do mean , replied Hans . 
'If one works in the night one must sleep in the day , just as if one works in the day one sleeps in the night . 
The minister tried to argue the point with him , but at length the following agreement was come to . 
'Not at all ! answered Hans . 
A few weeks later the minister was asked to attend a christening in the neighbouring town . 
'What are you taking that for ? asked the minister . 
'We shall be there before dark . 
'Who knows ? replied Hans . 
'Many things may happen to delay our journey , and I need not remind you of our contract that the moment the sun sets I cease to be your servant . 
If we don't reach the town while it is still daylight I shall leave you to shift for yourself . 
The minister thought he was joking , and made no further remark . 
This hindered their progress , and by the time they had entered the thick wood which lay between them and their destination the sun was already touching the tops of the trees . 
The horses ploughed their way slowly through the deep soft snow and as they went Hans kept turning to look at the sun , which lay at their backs . 
'Is there anything behind you ? asked the minister . 
'Or what is it you are always turning round for ? 'I turn round because I have no eyes in the back of my neck , said Hans . 
'Cease talking nonsense , replied the minister , 'and give all your mind to getting us to the town before nightfall . 
Hans did not answer , but rode on steadily , though every now and then he cast a glance over his shoulder . 
When they arrived in the middle of the wood the sun sank altogether . 
Then Hans reined up his horse , took his knapsack , and jumped out of the sledge . 
In vain the master prayed and threatened , and promised Hans a large reward if he would only drive him on . 
The young man was not to be moved . 
'Are you not ashamed to urge me to break my word ? said he . 
'If you want to reach the town to night you must go alone . 
The hour of my freedom has struck , and I cannot go with you . 
'My good Hans , entreated the minister , 'I really ought not to leave you here . 
Consider what danger you would be in ! Yonder , as you see , a gallows is set up , and two evil doers are hanging on it . 
You could not possibly sleep with such ghastly neighbours . 
'Why not ? asked Hans . 
'Those gallows birds hang high in the air , and my camp will be on the ground we shall have nothing to do with each other . 
As he spoke , he turned his back on the minister , and went his way . 
There was no help for it , and the minister had to push on by himself , if he expected to arrive in time for the christening . 
His friends were much surprised to see him drive up without a coachman , and thought some accident had happened . 
But when he told them of his conversation with Hans they did not know which was the most foolish , master or man . 
It would have mattered little to Hans had he known what they were saying or thinking of him . 
After some hours , he was awakened by a sudden noise , and sat up and looked about him . 
The moon was shining brightly above his head , and close by stood two headless dwarfs , talking angrily . 
My bones still ache from my fall down the steps of the tower . 
I dare say you have not forgotten that night ! Now it is the turn of your bones . 
Although they were so small , yet there were such numbers of them and they struck so hard that even a strong man could do nothing against them . 
Hans thought his last hour was come , when just as the fight was at the hottest another little dwarf arrived on the scene . 
'Hold , comrades ! he shouted , turning to the attacking party . 
'This man once did me a service , and I am his debtor . 
When I was in his power he granted me my life . 
And even if he did throw you downstairs , well , a warm bath soon cured your bruises , so you must just forgive him and go quietly home . 
The headless dwarfs listened to his words and disappeared as suddenly as they had come . 
As soon as Hans recovered himself a little he looked at his rescuer , and saw he was the dwarf he had found seated in the church bell . 
'Ah ! said the dwarf , seating himself quietly under the tree . 
'You laughed at me when I told you that some day I might do you a good turn . 
Now you see I was right , and perhaps you will learn for the future not to despise any creature , however small . 
'I thank you from my heart , answered Hans . 
'My bones are still sore from their blows , and had it not been for you I should indeed have fared badly . 
'I have almost paid my debt , went on the little man , 'but as you have suffered already , I will do more , and give you a piece of information . 
The day after to morrow the moon is full , and at midnight you must go to the spot and get the stone out of the wall with a pickaxe . 
Under the stone lies a great treasure , which has been hidden there in time of war . 
Besides church plate , you will find bags of money , which have been lying in this place for over a hundred years , and no one knows to whom it all belongs . 
A third of this money you must give to the poor , but the rest you may keep for yourself . 
As he finished , the cocks in the village crowed , and the little man was nowhere to be seen . 
Hans found that his limbs no longer pained him , and lay for some time thinking of the hidden treasure . 
Towards morning he fell asleep . 
The sun was high in the heavens when his master returned from the town . 
'How did you manage that ? asked the minister eagerly , but Hans answered , 'It is only fools who boast of their farthings wise men take care to hide their crowns . 
Then he returned to his work . 
Sure enough , there was the hole , and in the hole lay the treasure , exactly as the little man had said . 
The following Sunday he handed over the third part to the village poor , and informed the minister that he wished to break his bond of service . 
As , however , he did not claim any wages , the minister made no objections , but allowed him to do as he wished . 
So Hans went his way , bought himself a large house , and married a young wife , and lived happily and prosperously to the end of his days . 
THE YOUNG MAN WHO WOULD HAVE HIS EYES OPENED Once upon a time there lived a youth who was never happy unless he was prying into something that other people knew nothing about . 
After he had learned to understand the language of birds and beasts , he discovered accidentally that a great deal took place under cover of night which mortal eyes never saw . 
At length he reached an old magician called Mana , whose learning was greater than that of the rest , and who could tell him all he wanted to know . 
Much is hidden from the eyes of men , because did they know everything their hearts would no longer be at peace . 
Knowledge kills joy , therefore think well what you are doing , or some day you will repent . 
But if you will not take my advice , then truly I can show you the secrets of the night . 
Only you will need more than a man's courage to bear the sight . 
It is lucky for you that the serpent king's feast happens to fall this year , otherwise you would have had long to wait for it . 
But take care to be quick and bold , or it will be the worse for you . 
With sharpened eyes , he looked eagerly all round him , but could see nothing but a multitude of small hillocks , that lay motionless under the moonlight . 
What he saw was creepier than creepy , and surpassed all he had ever dreamt of . 
So , with his hair standing on end and his blood frozen in his veins , he crept forwards . 
Oh ! what a noise and a whirr rose afresh among the serpents . 
Like lightning he seized a bit of bread , dipped it in the bowl , and put it in his mouth , then dashed away as if fire was pursuing him . 
On he flew as if a whole army of foes were at his heels , and he seemed to hear the noise of their approach growing nearer and nearer . 
At length his breath failed him , and he threw himself almost senseless on the turf . 
While he lay there dreadful dreams haunted him . 
He thought that the serpent king with the fiery crown had twined himself round him , and was crushing out his life . 
With a loud shriek he sprang up to do battle with his enemy , when he saw that it was rays of the sun which had wakened him . 
But it was no dream that he had run hard and far , or that he had drunk of the magic goats' milk . 
And when he felt his limbs , and found them whole , his joy was great that he had come through such perils with a sound skin . 
And once in the forest his doubts were set at rest , for he saw what no mortal eyes had ever seen before . 
Beneath the trees were golden pavilions , with flags of silver all brightly lighted up . 
These were the wood nymphs , daughters of the earth mother , who came every night to hold their dances , in the forest . 
Then a silvery veil seemed to be drawn over the ladies , and they vanished from sight . 
But the young man remained where he was till the sun was high in the heavens , and then went home . 
He felt that day to be endless , and counted the minutes till night should come , and he might return to the forest . 
But when at last he got there he found neither pavilions nor nymphs , and though he went back many nights after he never saw them again . 
And that was the way he learned that the wizard had spoken truly when he said , 'Blindness is man's highest good . 
THE BOYS WITH THE GOLDEN STARS Once upon a time what happened did happen and if it had not happened , you would never have heard this story . 
Anna , the eldest , was so beautiful that when she took the sheep to pasture they forgot to eat as long as she was walking with them . 
Stana , the second , was so beautiful that when she was driving the flock the wolves protected the sheep . 
One summer day , when the rays of the sun were pouring down on the earth , the three sisters went to the wood on the outskirts of the mountain to pick strawberries . 
As they were looking about to find where the largest berries grew they heard the tramp of horses approaching , so loud that you would have thought a whole army was riding by . 
But it was only the emperor going to hunt with his friends and attendants . 
They were all fine handsome young men , who sat their horses as if they were part of them , but the finest and handsomest of all was the young emperor himself . 
As they drew near the three sisters , and marked their beauty , they checked their horses and rode slowly by . 
'Listen , sisters ! said Anna , as they passed on . 
'If one of those young men should make me his wife , I would bake him a loaf of bread which should keep him young and brave for ever . 
And though they spoke low the young men heard , and turned their horses' heads . 
'I take you at your word , and mine shall you be , most lovely of empresses ! cried the emperor , and swung Laptitza and her strawberries on the horse before him . 
'And I will have you , 'And I you , exclaimed two of his friends , and they all rode back to the palace together . 
The following morning the marriage ceremony took place , and for three days and three nights there was nothing but feasting over the whole kingdom . 
And when the rejoicings were over the news was in everybody's mouth that Anna had sent for corn , and had made the loaf of which she had spoken at the strawberry beds . 
Now the emperor had a stepmother , and she had a daughter by her first husband , who lived with her in the palace . 
The girl's mother had always believed that her daughter would be empress , and not the 'Milkwhite Maiden , the child of a mere shepherd . 
So she hated the girl with all her heart , and only bided her time to do her ill . 
But she could do nothing as long as the emperor remained with his wife night and day , and she began to wonder what she could do to get him away from her . 
This time her scheme was successful . 
The young emperor sprang up in wrath the moment he heard the news , and vowed that nothing , not even his wife , should hinder his giving them battle . 
And hastily assembling whatever soldiers happened to be at hand he set off at once to meet the enemy . 
The other king had not reckoned on the swiftness of his movements , and was not ready to receive him . 
The emperor fell on him when he was off his guard , and routed his army completely . 
But early that morning , when the stars were growing pale in the sky , two little boys with golden hair and stars on their foreheads were born to Laptitza . 
The emperor came into the palace , and when they told him the news he went straight to Laptitza's room . 
Not many days after , the stepmother's wish was fulfilled . 
The emperor took her daughter to wife , and again the rejoicings lasted for three days and three nights . 
Let us now see what happened to the two little boys . 
The poor little babies had found no rest even in their graves . 
And when the wind moved them softly , the emperor would sit and listen to them all the day long . 
The stepmother knew what it all meant , and her mind never ceased from trying to invent some way of destroying the trees . 
It was not an easy thing , but a woman's will can press milk out of a stone , and her cunning will overcome heroes . 
What craft will not do soft words may attain , and if these do not succeed there still remains the resource of tears . 
One morning the empress sat on the edge of her husband's bed , and began to coax him with all sorts of pretty ways . 
The aspens were cut down next morning , and before night the new bed had been placed in the emperor's room . 
But the empress felt as if she was lying on thorns and nettles , and could not close her eyes . 
When the emperor was fast asleep , the bed began to crack loudly , and to the empress each crack had a meaning . 
She felt as if she were listening to a language which no one but herself could understand . 
'Is it too heavy for you , little brother ? asked one of the beds . 
'Oh , no , it is not heavy at all , answered the bed in which the emperor was sleeping . 
'I feel nothing but joy now that my beloved father rests over me . 
'It is very heavy for me ! said the other bed , 'for on me lies an evil soul . 
And so they talked on till the morning , the empress listening all the while . 
By daybreak the empress had determined how to get rid of the beds . 
She would have two others made exactly like them , and when the emperor had gone hunting they should be placed in his room . 
This was done and the aspen beds were burnt in a large fire , till only a little heap of ashes was left . 
Yet while they were burning the empress seemed to hear the same words , which she alone could understand . 
Early one morning the emperor's fishermen went down to the river to get some fish for their master's breakfast , and cast their nets into the stream . 
'Do not take us there , for that is whence we came , and yonder lies our destruction , said one of the fishes . 
'But what are we to do with you ? asked the fisherman . 
'Go and collect all the dew that lies on the leaves , and let us swim in it . 
Then lay us in the sun , and do not come near us till the sun's rays shall have dried off the dew , answered the other fish . 
And they grew in other things besides height , too . 
Thrice in age , and thrice in wisdom , and thrice in knowledge . 
And when three days and three nights had passed they were twelve years in age , twenty four in strength , and thirty six in wisdom . 
'Now take us to our father , said they . 
By the time they arrived there it was midday , and the fisherman and his charges went up to an official who was standing about . 
'We wish to speak with the emperor , said one of the boys . 
'You must wait until he has finished his dinner , replied the porter . 
'No , while he is eating it , said the second boy , stepping across the threshold . 
'We desire to enter , said one of the princes sharply to a servant who stood near the door . 
'That is quite impossible , replied the servant . 
'Is it ? let us see ! said the second prince , pushing the servants to right and left . 
But the servants were many , and the princes only two . 
There was the noise of a struggle , which reached the emperor's ears . 
'What is the matter ? asked he angrily . 
The princes stopped at the sound of their father's voice . 
'Two boys who want to force their way in , replied one of the servants , approaching the emperor . 
'To FORCE their way in ? Who dares to use force in my palace ? What boys are they ? said the emperor all in one breath . 
And they are as proud as they are strong , for they will not take their caps from their heads . 
The emperor , as he listened , grew red with anger . 
'Thrust them out , cried he . 
'Set the dogs after them . 
'Leave us alone , and we will go quietly , said the princes , and stepped backwards , weeping silently at the harsh words . 
They had almost reached the gates when a servant ran up to them . 
'The emperor commands you to return , panted he 'the empress wishes to see you . 
The princes thought a moment then they went back the way they had come , and walked straight up to the emperor , their caps still on their heads . 
He sat at the top of a long table covered with flowers and filled with guests . 
And beside him sat the empress , supported by twelve cushions . 
When the princes entered one of the cushions fell down , and there remained only eleven . 
'Take off your caps , said one of the courtiers . 
'A covered head is among men a sign of honour . 
We wish to seem what we are . 
'Never mind , said the emperor , whose anger had dropped before the silvery tones of the boy's voice . 
And a second cushion fell down . 
'Let them take their silliness home , said the empress . 
'Oh , no , let them go on , said the emperor . 
'You wished to see them , but I wish to hear them . 
Go on , boys , sing me the story . 
The empress was silent , but the princes began to sing the story of their lives . 
'There was once an emperor , began they , and the third cushion fell down . 
When they reached the warlike expedition of the emperor three of the cushions fell down at once . 
And there happened in the end what should have happened in the beginning . 
Laptitza sat next her husband at the top of the table . 
THE FROG Once upon a time there was a woman who had three sons . 
Though they were peasants they were well off , for the soil on which they lived was fruitful , and yielded rich crops . 
One day they all three told their mother they meant to get married . 
Whoever spins the best will be my favourite daughter in law . 
to whom he could give it to be spun . 
Then in despair he left their villages , and went out into the country , and , seating himself on the bank of a pond began to cry bitterly . 
Suddenly there was a noise close beside him , and a frog jumped out of the water on to the bank and asked him why he was crying . 
The youth told her of his trouble , and how his brothers would bring home linen spun for them by their promised wives , but that no one would spin his thread . 
Then the frog answered 'Do not weep on that account give me the thread , and I will spin it for you . 
And , having said this , she took it out of his hand , and flopped back into the water , and the youth went back , not knowing what would happen next . 
In a short time the two elder brothers came home , and their mother asked to see the linen which had been woven out of the skeins of flax she had given them . 
They all three left the room and in a few minutes the two eldest returned , bringing with them the linen that had been spun by their chosen wives . 
But the youngest brother was greatly troubled , for he had nothing to show for the skein of flax that had been given to him . 
Sadly he betook himself to the pond , and sitting down on the bank , began to weep . 
Flop ! and the frog appeared out of the water close beside him . 
'Take this , she said 'here is the linen that I have spun for you . 
You may imagine how delighted the youth was . 
Then she turned to her sons and said 'But this is not enough , my sons , I must have another proof as to what sort of wives you have chosen . 
In the house there are three puppies . 
Each of you take one , and give it to the woman whom you mean to bring home as your wife . 
She must train it and bring it up . 
Whichever dog turns out the best , its mistress will be my favourite daughter in law . 
So the young men set out on their different ways , each taking a puppy with him . 
The youngest , not knowing where to go , returned to the pond , sat down once more on the bank , and began to weep . 
Flop ! and close beside him , he saw the frog . 
'Why are you weeping ? she said . 
Then he told her his difficulty , and that he did not know to whom he should take the puppy . 
'Give it to me , she said , 'and I will bring it up for you . 
And , seeing that the youth hesitated , she took the little creature out of his arms , and disappeared with it into the pond . 
The weeks and months passed , till one day the mother said she would like to see how the dogs had been trained by her future daughters in law . 
The youngest son , as was his custom , went to the pond , and called on the frog to come to his rescue . 
In a minute she was at his side , bringing with her the most lovely little dog , which she put into his arms . 
It sat up and begged with its paws , and went through the prettiest tricks , and was almost human in the way it understood and did what it was told . 
In high spirits the youth carried it off to his mother . 
As soon as she saw it , she exclaimed 'This is the most beautiful little dog I have ever seen . 
You are indeed fortunate , my son you have won a pearl of a wife . 
Then , turning to the others , she said 'Here are three shirts take them to your chosen wives . 
Whoever sews the best will be my favourite daughter in law . 
So the young men set out once more and again , this time , the work of the frog was much the best and the neatest . 
You may imagine what the youngest brother felt on hearing these words . 
Flop ! and once more the faithful frog was beside him . 
'What is troubling you so much ? she asked him , and then the youth told her everything . 
'Will you take me for a wife ? she asked . 
'What should I do with you as a wife , he replied , wondering at her strange proposal . 
'Once more , will you have me or will you not ? she said . 
'I will neither have you , nor will I refuse you , said he . 
At this the frog disappeared and the next minute the youth beheld a lovely little chariot , drawn by two tiny ponies , standing on the road . 
The frog was holding the carriage door open for him to step in . 
'Come with me , she said . 
And he got up and followed her into the chariot . 
As they drove along the road they met three witches the first of them was blind , the second was hunchbacked , and the third had a large thorn in her throat . 
Their first thought was to reward the frog , who had unconsciously been the means of curing them of their misfortunes . 
The first witch waved her magic wand over the frog , and changed her into the loveliest girl that had ever been seen . 
The second witch waved the wand over the tiny chariot and ponies , and they were turned into a beautiful large carriage with prancing horses , and a coachman on the seat . 
The third witch gave the girl a magic purse , filled with money . 
Having done this , the witches disappeared , and the youth with his lovely bride drove to his mother's home . 
Great was the delight of the mother at her youngest son's good fortune . 
A beautiful house was built for them she was the favourite daughter in law everything went well with them , and they lived happily ever after . 
THE PRINCESS WHO WAS HIDDEN UNDERGROUND Once there was a king who had great riches , which , when he died , he divided among his three sons . 
The two eldest of these lived in rioting and feasting , and thus wasted and squandered their father's wealth till nothing remained , and they found themselves in want and misery . 
The youngest of the three sons , on the contrary , made good use of his portion . 
Next he shut up his daughter inside , and then sent heralds all over the world to make known that he who should find the king's daughter should have her to wife . 
If he were not capable of finding her then he must die . 
Many young men sought to discover her , but all perished in the attempt . 
First he went to a herdsman , and begged him to hide him in a sheepskin , which had a golden fleece , and in this disguise to take him to the king . 
This the king agreed to do , and he arose and took the lamb to his daughter . 
When he had led it into her palace , and through many rooms , he came to a shut door . 
Then he called 'Open , Sartara Martara of the earth ! and the door opened of itself . 
After that they went through many more rooms , and came to another closed door . 
When the king had embraced the princess , he gave her the lamb , to her great joy . 
She stroked it , caressed it , and played with it . 
After a while the lamb got loose , which , when the princess saw , she said 'See , father , the lamb is free . 
But the king answered 'It is only a lamb , why should it not be free ? Then he left the lamb with the princess , and went his way . 
In the night , however , the young man threw off the skin . 
When they had spent three days together , chatting and caressing one another , the herd came back to the king , and demanded his lamb . 
Then the king went to his daughter to bring it away , which troubled the princess very much , for she said they had played so nicely together . 
But the king said 'I cannot leave it with you , my daughter , for it is only lent to me . 
So he took it away with him , and gave it back to the shepherd . 
Then the young man threw the skin from off him , and went to the king , saying 'Sire , I am persuaded I can find your daughter . 
When the king saw how handsome he was , he said 'My lad , I have pity on your youth . 
This enterprise has already cost the lives of many , and will certainly be your death as well . 
But the young man answered , 'I accept your conditions , oh king I will either find her or lose my head . 
Thereupon he went before the king , who followed after him , till they came to the great door . 
Then the young man said to the king 'Speak the words that it may open . 
And the king answered 'What are the words ? Shall I say something like this Shut shut shut ? 'No , said he 'say Open , Sartara Martara of the earth . 
When the king had so said , the door opened of itself , and they went in , while the king gnawed his moustache in anger . 
Then they came to the second door , where the same thing happened as at the first , and they went in and found the princess . 
Then spoke the king and said 'Yes , truly , you have found the princess . 
And immediately the king changed all the maidens into ducks , and he drove them before the young man , and said 'Now show me which is my daughter . 
Then the princess , according to their understanding , began to clean her wings with her bill , and the lad said 'She who cleans her wings is the princess . 
Now the king could do nothing more but give her to the young man to wife , and they lived together in great joy and happiness . 
THE GIRL WHO PRETENDED TO BE A BOY Once upon a time there lived an emperor who was a great conqueror , and reigned over more countries than anyone in the world . 
And whenever he subdued a fresh kingdom , he only granted peace on condition that the king should deliver him one of his sons for ten years' service . 
Now on the borders of his kingdom lay a country whose emperor was as brave as his neighbour , and as long as he was young he was the victor in every war . 
One thing , however , held him back from this step which day by day he saw more clearly was the only one possible . 
His new overlord would demand the service of one of his sons . 
And the old emperor had no son only three daughters . 
'My daughter , answered the emperor , 'what you say is true . 
Never have you given me one moment's pain . 
Yet now you cannot help me . 
Ah ! why is not one of you a boy ! 'I don't understand , she answered in surprise . 
Only a warrior can deliver me now , a young giant who is strong to wield the battle axe whose sword deals deadly blows . 
You have heard that as long as I was young no man ever brought an army against me without it costing him dear . 
But the years have chilled my blood and drunk my strength . 
But her father only shook his head sadly . 
'Never will I bring shame upon you , urged the girl . 
Am I not a princess , and the daughter of an emperor ? 'Go then ! he said . 
The brave girl's heart almost stopped beating from joy , as she set about her preparations . 
She was not still for a single moment , but danced about the house , turning chests and wardrobes upside down . 
She set aside enough things for a whole year dresses embroidered with gold and precious stones , and a great store of provisions . 
And she chose the most spirited horse in the stable , with eyes of flame , and a coat of shining silver . 
Then he gave her his blessing , and she touched her horse with the spur . 
The silver armour of herself and her steed dazzled the eyes of the people as she darted past . 
But though none of his daughters were aware of the fact , the old emperor was a magician , and had laid his plans accordingly . 
He managed , unseen , to overtake his daughter , and throw a bridge of copper over a stream which she would have to cross . 
Then , changing himself into a wolf , he lay down under one of the arches , and waited . 
He had chosen his time well , and in about half an hour the sound of a horse's hoofs was heard . 
His feet were almost on the bridge , when a big grey wolf with grinning teeth appeared before the princess . 
With a deep growl that froze the blood , he drew himself up , and prepared to spring . 
Then she turned him round , and urging him to his fullest speed , never drew rein till she saw the gates of the palace rising before her . 
He listened unwillingly , feeling sure it was no use , but she begged so hard that in the end he consented , and having chosen her arms , she rode away . 
'My father , it is my turn now . 
I think I shall succeed , but if I fail , I shall come home without more shame than my sisters . 
Still the emperor hesitated , but the girl petted and coaxed him till at last he said , 'Well , well , if you must go , you must . 
It remains to be seen what I shall get by it , except perhaps a good laugh when I see you come back with your head bent and your eyes on the ground . 
'He laughs best who laughs last , said the princess . 
So she went straight to the stables where the most beautiful horses in the empire were feeding in the stalls , but none of them seemed quite what she wanted . 
Almost in despair she reached the last box of all , which was occupied by her father's ancient war horse , old and worn like himself , stretched sadly out on the straw . 
The girl's eyes filled with tears , and she stood gazing at him . 
'I should like to try the treatment , as you might help me in carrying out my scheme . 
'Try it then , mistress , and I promise you will never repent . 
Tell me what I can do for you , princess , and I will do it . 
'I want to go to the emperor who is our over lord , and I have no one to advise me . 
'I will listen to everything . 
Can you start in three days ? 'This moment , if you like , said the horse . 
The preparations of the emperor's youngest daughter were much fewer and simpler than those of her sisters . 
They only consisted of some boy's clothes , a small quantity of linen and food , and a little money in case of necessity . 
Then she bade farewell to her father , and rode away . 
Then without looking round , she rode across the bridge . 
And this time he took the shape of a lion . 
But the horse guessed this new danger and told the princess how to escape it . 
But it is one thing to receive advice when we feel safe and comfortable , and quite another to be able to carry it out when some awful peril is threatening us . 
And if the wolf had made the girl quake with terror , it seemed like a lamb beside this dreadful lion . 
At the sound of his roar the very trees quivered and his claws were so large that every one of them looked like a cutlass . 
The breath of the princess came and went , and her feet rattled in the stirrups . 
Then , like a flash , she crossed this bridge also . 
'Warriors , he told her , 'only rest when they have won the victory . 
You have still another battle to fight , and it is the hardest of all . 
The fight lasted an hour and the dragon pressed her hard . 
Although the horse had informed the princess the dragon was really her own father , the girl had hardly believed him , and stared in amazement at the transformation . 
But he flung his arms round her and pressed her to his heart saying , 'Now I see that you are as brave as the bravest , and as wise as the wisest . 
You have chosen the right horse , for without his help you would have returned with a bent head and downcast eyes . 
When he had done speaking , the princess knelt down to receive his blessing , and they went their different ways . 
The princess rode on and on , till at last she came to the mountains which hold up the roof of the world . 
There she met two Genii who had been fighting fiercely for two years , without one having got the least advantage over the other . 
But the girl declared that she must first make her horse comfortable in his stable but this was really only an excuse , as she wanted to ask his advice on several matters . 
Then she crept back to her own bed and fell fast asleep . 
At break of day , the old woman ran to see her son , and found , as she knew she would , a bunch of dead flowers in his hand . 
She next passed on to the bedside of the princess , who still lay asleep grasping the withered flowers . 
But she did not believe any the more that her guest was a man , and so she told her son . 
So they put their heads together and laid another trap for her . 
After breakfast the genius gave his arm to his guest , and asked her to come with him into the garden . 
For some time they walked about looking at the flowers , the genius all the while pressing her to pick any she fancied . 
Then the genius told his mother that she was quite wrong , and his deliverer was certainly a man . 
But the old woman was not convinced for all that . 
After this she informed the genius that she would start early next day and take Sunlight with her . 
And there was nothing for the mother to do but to submit , though she still stuck to her own opinion . 
Listen to me once more , and do what I tell you . 
Give me leave , therefore , to return home , and do you continue your journey under the care of my brother . 
Put your faith in him as you put it in me , and you will never repent . 
Wisdom has come early to Sunlight . 
'Yes , my old comrade , you have served me well and it is only through your help that up to now I have been victorious . 
So grieved though I am to say farewell , I will obey you yet once more , and will listen to your brother as I would to yourself . 
Only , I must have a proof that he loves me as well as you do . 
I know there will be difficulties in our path , but we will face them together . 
Then , with tears in her eyes , the princess took leave of her old horse , who galloped back to her father . 
She had ridden only a few miles further , when she saw a golden curl lying on the road before her . 
Checking her horse , she asked whether it would be better to take it or let it lie . 
'If you take it , said Sunlight , 'you will repent , and if you don't , you will repent too so take it . 
On this the girl dismounted , and picking up the curl , wound it round her neck for safety . 
He was sitting on his throne , surrounded by the sons of the other emperors , who served him as pages . 
These youths came forward to greet their new companion , and wondered why they felt so attracted towards him . 
However , there was no time for talking and concealing her fright . 
The princess was led straight up to the throne , and explained , in a low voice , the reason of her coming . 
The emperor received her kindly , and declared himself fortunate at finding a vassal so brave and so charming , and begged the princess to remain in attendance on his person . 
She was , however , very careful in her behaviour towards the other pages , whose way of life did not please her . 
One day , however , she had been amusing herself by making sweetmeats , when two of the young princes looked in to pay her a visit . 
She offered them some of the food which was already on the table , and they thought it so delicious that they even licked their fingers so as not to lose a morsel . 
And from that moment the princess was left no peace , till she had promised to cook them all a dinner . 
Now it happened that , on the very day fixed , all the cooks in the palace became intoxicated , and there was no one to make up the fire . 
When the pages heard of this shocking state of things , they went to their companion and implored her to come to the rescue . 
The princess was fond of cooking , and was , besides , very good natured so she put on an apron and went down to the kitchen without delay . 
When the dinner was placed before the emperor he found it so nice that he ate much more than was good for him . 
The next morning , as soon as he woke , he sent for his head cook , and told him to send up the same dishes as before . 
The cook , seized with fright at this command , which he knew he could not fulfil , fell on his knees , and confessed the truth . 
At his first words she brightened up . 
But Iliane declares that , before she marries her captor , he must bring her , as a present , the whole stud of mares which belong to her . 
Go back to the emperor and ask him for twenty ships filled with precious merchandise . 
The rest you shall know by and by . 
On hearing this advice , the princess went at once into the emperor's presence . 
'May a long life be yours , O Sovereign all mighty ! said she . 
'I have come to tell you that I can do as you command if you will give me twenty ships , and load them with the most precious wares in your kingdom . 
'You shall have all that I possess if you will bring me the golden haired Iliane , said the emperor . 
The ships were soon ready , and the princess entered the largest and finest , with Sunlight at her side . 
Then the sails were spread and the voyage began . 
For seven weeks the wind blew them straight towards the west , and early one morning they caught sight of the island swamps of the sea . 
Then mounting Sunlight , she rode about till she came to several palaces , built on hinges , so that they could always turn towards the sun . 
The most splendid of these was guarded by three slaves , whose greedy eyes were caught by the glistening gold of the slippers . 
They hastened up to the owner of these treasures , and inquired who he was . 
'A merchant , replied the princess , 'who had somehow missed his road , and lost himself among the island swamps of the sea . 
Luckily her gaoler was away , always trying to catch the stud of mares , so for the moment she was free and alone . 
The slaves told their tale so well that their mistress insisted on going down to the shore and seeing the beautiful slippers for herself . 
Thus they arrived at the court of the emperor . 
They were just about to land , when the mother of the genius stood before them . 
She had learnt that Iliane had fled from her prison in company with a merchant , and , as her son was absent , had come herself in pursuit . 
One glance told Iliane who the horrible old woman was , and she whispered hastily to her companion . 
Without saying a word , the princess swung her into Sunlight's saddle , and leaping up behind her , they were off like a flash . 
It was not till they drew near the town that the princess stooped and asked Sunlight what they should do . 
'Put your hand into my left ear , said he , 'and take out a sharp stone , which you must throw behind you . 
The princess did as she was told , and a huge mountain sprang up behind them . 
The mother of the genius began to climb up it , and though they galloped quickly , she was quicker still . 
They heard her coming , faster , faster and again the princess stooped to ask what was to be done now . 
'Put your hand into my right ear , said the horse , 'and throw the brush you will find there behind you . 
The princess did so , and a great forest sprang up behind them , and , so thick were its leaves , that even a wren could not get through . 
This time there sprang up a great tower of stone , smooth as ivory , hard as steel , which reached up to heaven itself . 
And the mother of the genius gave a howl of rage , knowing that she could neither climb it nor get through it . 
Only her claws could be seen grasping the battlements . 
Then , with one last effort to free herself , her hands gave way , and , falling down to the bottom of the tower , she was broken in pieces . 
In an instant the tower had vanished as if it had never been , and in its place was the finger of the princess with a ring round it . 
The emperor received Iliane with all the respect that was due to her , and fell in love at first sight besides . 
When he heard this , the emperor once more sent for Fet Fruners , and said 'Fet Fruners , fetch me instantly the stud of mares , with their trappings all complete . 
If not , your head shall pay the forfeit . 
The princess bowed and went to consult Sunlight . 
He listened while she told her tale , and then said 'Fetch quickly nine buffalo skins smear them well with tar , and lay them on my back . 
Do not fear you will succeed in this also but , in the end , the emperor's desires will be his undoing . 
The buffalo skins were soon got , and the princess started off with Sunlight . 
The way was long and difficult , but at length they reached the place where the mares were grazing . 
At this news a blind fury took possession of the genius , and he rushed madly upon the princess , who awaited his onslaught with perfect calmness . 
As he came on , with his sabre lifted high in the air , Sunlight bounded right over his head , so that the sword fell harmless . 
And when in her turn the princess prepared to strike , the horse sank upon his knees , so that the blade pierced the genius's thigh . 
At last , when her strength was almost gone , the genius lowered his sword for an instant . 
The princess saw her chance , and , with one swoop of her arm , severed her enemy's head from his body . 
Still trembling from the long struggle , she turned away , and went to the meadow where the stud were feeding . 
By the advice of Sunlight , she took care not to let them see her , and climbed a thick tree , where she could see and hear without being seen herself . 
When the fight was ended , the buffalo skins were in ribbons , and the beaten animal writhing with pain on the grass . 
Nothing now remained to be done but to drive the whole stud to the emperor's court . 
So the princess came down from the tree and mounted Sunlight , while the stud followed meekly after , the wounded horse bringing up the rear . 
On reaching the palace , she drove them into a yard , and went to inform the emperor of her arrival . 
The news was told at once to Iliane , who ran down directly and called them to her one by one , each mare by its name . 
But they would suffer no one to come near them , and the princess was commanded to perform this service also . 
At this , the heart of the girl swelled within her . 
The hardest tasks were always given to her , and long before the two years were up , she would be worn out and useless . 
Then as suddenly it stopped , and , behold ! the water was ice , which held the animals firmly in its grasp . 
And the princess's heart grew light again , and she sat down gaily to milk them , as if she had done it every morning of her life . 
The love of the emperor for Iliane waxed greater day by day , but she paid no heed to him , and always had an excuse ready to put off their marriage . 
'My beautiful dove , replied the emperor , 'both I and all I possess are yours , so ask your will , and you shall have it . 
'Get me , then , she said , 'a flask of the holy water that is kept in a little church beyond the river Jordan , and I will be your wife . 
Then the emperor ordered Fet Fruners to ride without delay to the river Jordan , and to bring back , at whatever cost , the holy water for Iliane . 
'This , my mistress , said Sunlight , when she was saddling him , 'is the last and most difficult of your tasks . 
But fear nothing , for the hour of the emperor has struck . 
So they started and the horse , who was not a wizard for nothing , told the princess exactly where she was to look for the holy water . 
'It stands , he said , 'on the altar of a little church , and is guarded by a troop of nuns . 
They came in sight of the church beyond the Jordan , and , to their great joy , beheld the hermit just arriving at the door . 
But she reached the altar in safety , and found the vase of holy water standing on it . 
This she thrust into her dress , and went back with the same care as she came . 
With a bound she was in the saddle , and seizing the reins bade Sunlight take her home as fast as his legs could carry him . 
In either case he thought that the punishment would be severe . 
But if one is given me , and my dearest wish is accomplished , then you shall be his right hand , and guide him with your counsels . 
But though the emperor was satisfied , Iliane was not , and she determined to revenge herself on the emperor for the dangers which he had caused Fet Fruners to run . 
Then , when both were standing with the milk reaching to their necks , she sent for the horse which had fought Sunlight , and made a secret sign to him . 
His strange death , which no one could explain , made a great sensation throughout the country , and the funeral his people gave him was the most splendid ever known . 
It is you who gave me back my stud you who killed the genius , and the old witch his mother you who brought me the holy water . 
And you , and none other , shall be my husband . 
'Yes , I will marry you , said the young man , with a voice almost as soft as when he was a princess . 
'But know that in OUR house , it will be the cock who sings and not the hen ! From Sept Contes Roumains , Jules Brun and Leo Bachelin . 
THE STORY OF HALFMAN In a certain town there lived a judge who was married but had no children . 
One day he was standing lost in thought before his house , when an old man passed by . 
'What is the matter , sir , said he , 'you look troubled ? 'Oh , leave me alone , my good man ! 'But what is it ? persisted the other . 
'Well , I am successful in my profession and a person of importance , but I care nothing for it all , as I have no children . 
Then the old man said , 'Here are twelve apples . 
If your wife eats them , she will have twelve sons . 
The judge thanked him joyfully as he took the apples , and went to seek his wife . 
'Eat these apples at once , he cried , 'and you will have twelve sons . 
The eleven sons came into the world , strong and handsome boys but when the twelfth was born , there was only half of him . 
By and by they all grew into men , and one day they told their father it was high time he found wives for them . 
'I have a brother , he answered , 'who lives away in the East , and he has twelve daughters go and marry them . 
So the twelve sons saddled their horses and rode for twelve days , till they met an old woman . 
Follow me into my house . 
And the twelve brothers followed her gladly , and their father's brother stood at the door , and gave them meat and drink . 
'Nonsense of course he is our uncle , answered they . 
'Well , this very night you will see ! said Halfman . 
And he did not go to bed , but hid himself and watched . 
After that she lay down and was soon snoring loudly . 
When Halfman was quite sure she was sound asleep , he took the red cloth from his brothers and put it on the girls , and laid their white cloth over his brothers . 
Next he drew their scarlet caps from their heads and exchanged them for the veils which the ogre's daughters were wearing . 
This was hardly done when he heard steps coming along the floor , so he hid himself quickly in the folds of a curtain . 
And when she reached the place where the sisters were lying , she stooped down and held a corner of the cloth up to the lantern . 
Then she was quite certain the brothers lay sleeping before her , and began to kill them one by one . 
And Halfman whispered to his brothers , 'Get up and run for your lives , as the ogress is killing her daughters . 
The brothers needed no second bidding , and in a moment were out of the house . 
By this time the ogress had slain all her daughters but one , who awoke suddenly and saw what had happened . 
'Mother , what are you doing ? cried she . 
'Do you know that you have killed my sisters ? 'Oh , woe is me ! wailed the ogress . 
'Halfman has outwitted me after all ! And she turned to wreak vengeance on him , but he and his brothers were far away . 
They rode all day till they got to the town where their real uncle lived , and inquired the way to his house . 
'Why have you been so long in coming ? asked he , when they had found him . 
'Oh , dear uncle , we were very nearly not coming at all ! replied they . 
'We fell in with an ogress who took us home and would have killed us if it had not been for Halfman . 
He knew what was in her mind and saved us , and here we are . 
Now give us each a daughter to wife , and let us return whence we came . 
'Take them ! said the uncle 'the eldest for the eldest , the second for the second , and so on to the youngest . 
So Halfman got down and filled a skin with water , and they drew it up by a rope and drank . 
And the brothers threw him a rope to draw him up the steep bank but when he was half way up they cut the rope , and he fell back into the stream . 
Then the brothers rode away as fast as they could , with his bride . 
And the fish guided him to a shallow place , so that he scrambled out . 
'Take one of my scales , said the fish , 'and when you find yourself in danger , throw it in the fire . 
Then I will appear before you . 
'Thank you , said Halfman , and went his way , while the fish swam back to its home . 
The country was strange to Halfman , and he wandered about without knowing where he was going , till he suddenly found the ogress standing before him . 
'Ah , Halfman , have I got you at last ? You killed my daughters and helped your brothers to escape . 
What do you think I shall do with you ? 'Whatever you like ! said Halfman . 
'Come into my house , then , said the ogress , and he followed her . 
'Look here ! she called to her husband , 'I have got hold of Halfman . 
I am going to roast him , so be quick and make up the fire ! So the ogre brought wood , and heaped it up till the flames roared up the chimney . 
Then he turned to his wife and said 'It is all ready , let us put him on ! 'What is the hurry , my good ogre ? asked Halfman . 
'You have me in your power , and I cannot escape . 
I am so thin now , I shall hardly make one mouthful . 
Better fatten me up you will enjoy me much more . 
'That is a very sensible remark , replied the ogre 'but what fattens you quickest ? 'Butter , meat , and red wine , answered Halfman . 
'Very good we will lock you into this room , and here you shall stay till you are ready for eating . 
So Halfman was locked into the room , and the ogre and his wife brought him his food . 
At the end of three months he said to his gaolers 'Now I have got quite fat take me out , and kill me . 
'Get out , then ! said the ogre . 
'You had better bring the wood in here , continued Halfman , 'and I will split it up small , so that there may be no delay in cooking me . 
So the ogress gave Halfman a pile of wood and an axe , and then set out with her husband , leaving Halfman and her daughter busy in the house . 
After he had chopped for a little while he called to the girl , 'Come and help me , or else I shan't have it all ready when your mother gets back . 
'All right , said she , and held a billet of wood for him to chop . 
But he raised his axe and cut off her head , and ran away like the wind . 
At last he saw an iron tower which he climbed up . 
'Oh , there is no door , replied Halfman . 
'Then how did you climb up ? 'A fish carried me on his back . 
After that you can easily throw it down . 
'Very good , said the ogre , and he went round to every relation he had , and told them to collect wood and bring it to the tower where Halfman was . 
And overhead sat Halfman , laughing heartily . 
But the ogre's wife was still alive , for she had taken no part in kindling the fire . 
'I will let down a rope , and if you tie it tightly round you , I will draw it up . 
'All right , returned the ogress , fastening the rope which Halfman let down . 
'Are you sure it is secure ? 'Yes , quite sure . 
Then Halfman heaved a great sigh and said , 'That was hard work the rope has hurt my hands badly , but now I am rid of her for ever . 
So Halfman came down from the tower , and went on , till he got to a desert place , and as he was very tired , he lay down to sleep . 
While it was still dark , an ogress passed by , and she woke him and said , 'Halfman , to morrow your brother is to marry your wife . 
'Oh , how can I stop it ? asked he . 
'Will you help me ? 'Yes , I will , replied the ogress . 
'Thank you , thank you ! cried Halfman , kissing her on the forehead . 
'My wife is dearer to me than anything else in the world , and it is not my brother's fault that I am not dead long ago . 
'Very well , I will rid you of him , said the ogress , 'but only on one condition . 
'Mount on my back , then , and in a quarter of an hour we shall be there . 
The ogress was as good as her word , and in a few minutes they arrived at the outskirts of the town where Halfman and his brothers lived . 
Here she left him , while she went into the town itself , and found the wedding guests just leaving the brother's house . 
Then she returned to Halfman and told him to go and claim his bride . 
He jumped up hastily from his seat , and took the road to his father's house . 
'Well , thought Halfman , 'my conscience is clear anyway , for it is quite plain he coveted my wife , and that is why he tried to drown me . 
He went at once to his father's room , and found him sitting in tears on the floor . 
If he is dead , I at least am alive . 
'No , no , he was better than you ! moaned the father . 
'Why , dear father ? 'He told me you had behaved very ill , said he . 
'Well , call my brothers , answered Halfman , 'as I have a story to tell them . 
So the father called them all into his presence . 
But I warned my brothers that the man was not our uncle , but an ogre . 
Then I woke my brothers , and we all stole softly from the house , and we rode like the wind to our real uncle . 
And my brothers were filled with envy , and left me to drown in a brook , but I was saved by a fish who showed me how to get out . 
Now , you are a judge ! Who did well , and who did evil I or my brothers ? 'Is this story true ? said the father , turning to his sons . 
'It is true , my father , answered they . 
'It is even as Halfman has said , and the girl belongs to him . 
Then the judge embraced Halfman and said to him 'You have done well , my son . 
and found her husband weeping . 
'What is the matter ? she asked . 
'The matter ? said he . 
'Yes , why are you weeping ? 'Because , replied Halfman , 'the baby is not really ours , but belongs to an ogress . 
'Are you mad ? cried the wife . 
'And will she take him from us now ? said the poor woman . 
'No , not quite yet , replied Halfman 'when he is bigger . 
'And is she to have all our children ? asked she . 
'No , only this one , returned Halfman . 
Day by day the boy grew bigger , and one day as he was playing in the street with the other children , the ogress came by . 
The next day the ogress came again , and asked the boy what answer the father had given . 
'I forgot all about it , said he . 
'Well , put this ring on your finger , and then you won't forget . 
'Very well , replied the boy , and went home . 
And when he went out , he said to his play fellows , 'Look how smart I am I am going away with my aunt to foreign lands . 
At that moment the ogress came up and asked him , 'Did you give my message to your father and mother ? 'Yes , dear aunt , I did . 
'And what did they say ? 'Take it away at once ! So she took him . 
But when dinner time came , and the boy did not return , his father and mother knew that he would never come back , and they sat down and wept all day . 
'Yes , that will be the best , said she . 
The year passed away , then Halfman saddled his horse , and rode to the place where the ogress had found him sleeping . 
She was not there , but not knowing what to do next , he got off his horse and waited . 
About midnight she suddenly stood before him . 
'Halfman , why did you come here ? said she . 
'I have a question I want to ask you . 
'Well , ask it but I know quite well what it is . 
Your wife wishes you to ask whether I shall carry off your second son as I did the first . 
'Yes , that is it , replied Halfman . 
Then he seized her hand and said , 'Oh , let me see my son , and how he looks , and what he is doing . 
But the boy struggled to be free , saying 'Dear father , put me down . 
I have got a new mother , who is better than the old one and a new father , who is better than you . 
Then his father sat him down and said , 'Go in peace , my boy , but listen first to me . 
Tell your father the ogre and your mother the ogress , that never more shall they have any children of mine . 
Marchen und Gedichte aus der Stadt Tripolis . 
The youth was overjoyed at the thought that he was really going to see the world , and after tenderly embracing his father he set forth . 
The young man replied that he was very fond of doing so . 
Cards were brought , and in a very short time the prince had lost every penny he possessed to his new acquaintance . 
The prince agreed to those terms , played , and lost so the stranger took rooms for him , and furnished him with bread and water every day for three years . 
Before he had gone very far he met a woman carrying a child , which was crying from hunger . 
The prince took it from her , and fed it with his last crust of bread and last drop of water , and then gave it back to its mother . 
The woman thanked him gratefully , and said 'Listen , my lord . 
You must walk straight on till you notice a very strong scent , which comes from a garden by the side of the road . 
Go in and hide yourself close to a tank , where three doves will come to bathe . 
As the last one flies past you , catch hold of its robe of feathers , and refuse to give it back till the dove has promised you three things . 
The young man did as he was told , and everything happened as the woman had said . 
Thus the prince went on his way , and in course of time he arrived at the king's palace . 
'Fear nothing it will be all right , replied the dove , as she flew away again . 
The next morning when the prince awoke he saw the three loaves standing beside his bed . 
He jumped up and dressed , and he was scarcely ready when a page arrived with the message that he was to go at once into the king's chamber . 
Taking the loaves in his arm he followed the boy , and , bowing low , laid them down before the king . 
The monarch looked at the loaves for a moment without speaking , then he said 'Good . 
The man who can do this can also find the ring which my eldest daughter dropped into the sea . 
The prince hastened back to his room and summoned the dove , and when she heard this new command she said 'Now listen . 
To morrow take a knife and a basin and go down to the shore and get into a boat you will find there . 
Afterwards you must throw it into the sea . 
Wondering at this strange order , the prince picked up his knife and severed the dove's head from her body at one stroke . 
Another moment and it had vanished completely , and the prince took the ring and made his way back to the palace . 
The king stared with surprise at the sight of the ring , but he thought of another way of getting rid of the young man which was surer even than the other two . 
'This evening you will mount my colt and ride him to the field , and break him in properly . 
My father longs to see you dead , and thinks he will kill you by this means . 
He himself is the colt , my mother is the saddle , my two sisters are the stirrups , and I am the bridle . 
Do not forget to take a good club , to help you in dealing with such a crew . 
The youngest , however , was quite unharmed . 
That night she came to the prince and whispered to him 'Now that they are all in too much pain to move , we had better seize our chance and run away . 
Go to the stable and saddle the leanest horse you can find there . 
However , it was dangerous to go back , and they rode on as fast as the horse would go . 
In the night the king sent for his youngest daughter , and as she did not come he sent again but she did not come any the more for that . 
The queen , who was a witch , discovered that her daughter had gone off with the prince , and told her husband he must leave his bed and go after them . 
The king got slowly up , groaning with pain , and dragged himself to the stables , where he saw the lean horse still in his stall . 
When the king reached the chapel , he pulled up his horse and asked if a girl and a young man had passed that way . 
The hermit raised his eyes , which were bent on the ground , and said that he had not seen a living creature . 
At these words the king hastened back to the stable , and brought out the lean horse who travelled quicker than thought . 
But his daughter saw him coming , and changed her horse into a plot of ground , herself into a rose tree covered with roses , and the prince into a gardener . 
As the king rode up , the gardener looked up from the tree which he was trimming and asked if anything was the matter . 
So the king turned his steps homewards and told his wife . 
'Idiot ! cried she , 'if you had only brought me one of the roses , or a handful of earth , I should have had them in my power . 
But there is no time to waste . 
I shall have to go with you myself . 
The girl saw them from afar , and a great fear fell on her , for she knew her mother's skill in magic of all kinds . 
However , she determined to fight to the end , and changed the horse into a deep pool , herself into an eel , and the prince into a turtle . 
But it was no use . 
Her mother recognised them all , and , pulling up , asked her daughter if she did not repent and would not like to come home again . 
The king then filled it a second time , but again the turtle was too quick for him . 
The queen saw that she was beaten , and called down a curse on her daughter that the prince should forget all about her . 
After having relieved her feelings in this manner , she and the king went back to the palace . 
The others resumed their proper shapes and continued their journey , but the princess was so silent that at last the prince asked her what was the matter . 
Then they hung a collar round his neck , and held a feather on which was written the name of the dove . 
And at last his memory came back to him , and he declared he would marry the princess and nobody else . 
So the next day the wedding took place , and they lived happy till they died . 
VIRGILIUS THE SORCERER Long , long ago there was born to a Roman knight and his wife Maja a little boy called Virgilius . 
Virgilius was fond of books , and pored over them all day long . 
But one afternoon , when the boys were given a holiday , he took a long walk , and found himself in a place where he had never been before . 
In front of him was a cave , and , as no boy ever sees a cave without entering it , he went in . 
'Virgilius ! answered the voice , 'do you mark upon the ground where you are standing a slide or bolt ? 'I do , replied Virgilius . 
'Then , said the voice , 'draw back that bolt , and set me free . 
'But who are you ? asked Virgilius , who never did anything in a hurry . 
'I am an evil spirit , said the voice , 'shut up here till Doomsday , unless a man sets me free . 
If you will let me out I will give you some magic books , which will make you wiser than any other man . 
The evil spirit , unable to help itself , did as Virgilius bade him , and then the bolt was drawn back . 
'Why , you can't have been as big as that when you were in the hole ! cried Virgilius . 
'But I was ! replied the spirit . 
'I don't believe it ! answered Virgilius . 
'Well , I'll just get in and show you , said the spirit , and after turning and twisting , and curling himself up , then he lay neatly packed into the hole . 
Then Virgilius drew the bolt , and , picking the books up under his arm , he left the cave . 
For the next few weeks Virgilius hardly ate or slept , so busy was he in learning the magic the books contained . 
So he entrusted to the messenger four pack horses laden with precious things , and a white palfrey on which she was to ride out every day . 
Then he set about his own preparations , and , followed by a large train of scholars , he at length started for Rome , from which he had been absent twelve years . 
Soon after this had happened the season of tax gathering came round , and everyone who owned land was bound to present himself before the emperor . 
Like the rest , Virgilius went to court , and demanded justice from the emperor against the men who had robbed him . 
But as these were kinsmen to the emperor he gained nothing , as the emperor told him he would think over the matter for the next four years , and then give judgment . 
When the enemies of Virgilius heard of this , they assembled together and laid siege to his castle . 
But Virgilius was a match for them . 
After which he lifted the spell , and the invading army slunk back to Rome , and reported what Virgilius had said to the emperor . 
Now the emperor was accustomed to have his lightest word obeyed , almost before it was uttered , and he hardly knew how to believe his ears . 
But he got together another army , and marched straight off to the castle . 
Things seemed getting desperate , when a magician arrived in the camp and offered to sell his services to the emperor . 
His proposals were gladly accepted , and in a moment the whole of the garrison sank down as if they were dead , and Virgilius himself had much ado to keep awake . 
He did not know how to fight the magician , but with a great effort struggled to open his Black Book , which told him what spells to use . 
In an instant all his foes seemed turned to stone , and where each man was there he stayed . 
The emperor , who by this time was thoroughly frightened , said he would agree to anything Virgilius desired . 
So Virgilius took off his spells , and , after feasting the army and bestowing on every man a gift , bade them return to Rome . 
Virgilius was enchanted at this quite unexpected favour , and stepped with glee into the basket . 
At last the emperor , hearing of his plight , commanded Febilla to release him , and Virgilius went home vowing vengeance . 
The next morning every fire in Rome went out , and as there were no matches in those days this was a very serious matter . 
The emperor , guessing that this was the work of Virgilius , besought him to break the spell . 
Then Virgilius ordered a scaffold to be erected in the market place , and Febilla to be brought clothed in a single white garment . 
And further , he bade every one to snatch fire from the maiden , and to suffer no neighbour to kindle it . 
For three days she stood there , till every hearth in Rome was alight , and then she was suffered to go where she would . 
But the emperor was wroth at the vengeance of Virgilius , and threw him into prison , vowing that he should be put to death . 
And when everything was ready he was led out to the Viminal Hill , where he was to die . 
He went quietly with his guards , but the day was hot , and on reaching his place of execution he begged for some water . 
A pail was brought , and he , crying 'Emperor , all hail ! seek for me in Sicily , jumped headlong into the pail , and vanished from their sight . 
Virgilius spent many days in deep thought , and at length invented a plan which was known to all as the 'Preservation of Rome . 
Then they made ready their armies , and marched against the foe . 
Now there was a country which had long felt bitter jealousy of Rome , and was anxious for some way of bringing about its destruction . 
So the people chose three men who could be trusted , and , loading them with money , sent them to Rome , bidding them to pretend that they were diviners of dreams . 
Have we your leave to dig for it ? And leave having been given , the messengers took workmen and dug up the gold and made merry with it . 
A week or two passed by , and once more they appeared in the senate house . 
And receiving permission they began to dig , and when the messengers had almost undermined the Capitol they stole away as secretly as they had come . 
And next morning the stone gave way , and the sacred statue fell on its face and was broken . 
And the senators knew that their greed had been their ruin . 
The emperor , desiring nothing so much as the safety of his subjects , took counsel with Virgilius how this violence could be put down . 
Then make a proclamation that at ten o'clock a bell will toll , and every man is to enter his house , and not leave it again . 
The emperor did as Virgilius advised , but thieves and murderers laughed at the horse , and went about their misdeeds as usual . 
Thus did Virgilius restore peace and order to the city . 
The hours passed as if they were minutes , till the princess said that she could be no longer absent from her father . 
Then Virgilius conducted her himself over the airy bridge , and laid her gently down on her own bed , where she was found next morning by her father . 
She told him all that had happened to her , and he pretended to be very much interested , and begged that the next time Virgilius came he might be introduced to him . 
When they were all seated at the feast the princess rose and presented the cup to Virgilius , who directly he had drunk fell into a deep sleep . 
Then the sultan ordered his guards to bind him , and left him there till the following day . 
The moment he appeared the sultan's passion broke forth , and he accused his captive of the crime of conveying the princess into distant lands without his leave . 
'Not so ! cried the sultan , 'but a shameful death you shall die ! And the princess fell on her knees , and begged she might die with him . 
So , leaving them to plunge and leap like frogs and fishes , Virgilius took the princess in his arms , and carried her over the airy bridge back to Rome . 
And when the egg shakes the city quakes , and when the egg shall be broken the city shall be destroyed . 
And the city Virgilius filled full of wonders , such as never were seen before , and he called its name Naples . 
Adapted from 'Virgilius the Sorcerer . 
MOGARZEA AND HIS SON There was once a little boy , whose father and mother , when they were dying , left him to the care of a guardian . 
So one day he set off , and walked and walked through woods and meadows till when evening came he was very tired , and did not know where to sleep . 
He climbed a hill and looked about him to see if there was no light shining from a window . 
The boy hesitated for a moment what he should do then he crept close up to the man , and lay down by his legs . 
When the man awoke in the morning he was much surprised to find the boy nestling up close to him . 
'Dear me ! where do you come from ? said he . 
'I am your son , born in the night , replied the boy . 
'If that is true , said the man , 'you shall take care of my sheep , and I will give you food . 
But take care you never cross the border of my land , or you will repent it . 
Then he pointed out where the border of his land lay , and bade the boy begin his work at once . 
The young shepherd led his flock out to the richest meadows and stayed with them till evening , when he brought them back , and helped the man to milk them . 
'I wonder you are not tired of living by yourself in this lonely place . 
'But why is it you are always so sad ? Tell me your history , father . 
'What is the use of my telling you things that would only make you sad too ? 'Oh , never mind that ! I should like to hear . 
I was on my way to the Sweet Milk Lake , which lies not far from here , to marry one of the three fairies who have made the lake their home . 
And the horrible elves are so ill natured that if anyone sets one foot on their land he is instantly punished . 
That is why I warn you to be careful , lest you should share my fate . 
'All right , I will take great care . 
Do let me go , father , said the boy , as they stretched themselves out to sleep . 
But the boy was so absorbed in his flute that he noticed nothing till half the flock were on the other side . 
The boy understood what he must do , and played with all his might , but the maidens danced on till evening . 
'Now let me go , he cried at last , 'for poor Mogarzea must be dying of hunger . 
I will come and play for you to morrow . 
'Well , you may go ! they said , 'but remember that even if you break your promise you will not escape us . 
So they both agreed that the next day he should come straight there with the sheep , and play to them till the sun went down . 
This being settled , they each returned home . 
Then the boy let the flute slip through his fingers , and trod on it , as if by accident . 
The hearts of the elves were quite melted , and they did all they could to comfort him . 
'I shall never find another flute like that , moaned he . 
'Come with us , and you shall make yourself another flute . 
It was in vain that they shrieked with pain and tried to free themselves . 
They could do nothing , and the young man remained cold as marble to all their entreaties . 
Then he demanded of them Mogarzea's soul . 
'Oh , well , if you must have it , it is in a bottle on the window sill , said they , hoping that they might obtain their freedom at once . 
'You have made so many men suffer , answered he sternly , 'that it is but just you should suffer yourselves , but to morrow I will let you go . 
And he turned towards home , taking his sheep and the soul of Mogarzea with him . 
Mogarzea was waiting at the door , and as the boy drew near he began scolding him for being so late . 
But all he did was to point to the boy who had saved him , and had followed him with his flock . 
For three days the boy stayed in the palace , receiving the thanks and praises of the whole court . 
Mogarzea tried in vain to make him stay , but , finding it was useless , he told him all he knew , for he himself had never seen the lake . 
For three summer days the boy and his flute journeyed on , till one evening he reached the lake , which lay in the kingdom of a powerful fairy . 
He gazed at her in wonder , when suddenly she began to dance . 
Her movements were so graceful that he forgot to play , and as soon as the notes of his flute ceased she vanished from his sight . 
The next day the same thing happened , but on the third he took courage , and drew a little nearer , playing on his flute all the while . 
Suddenly he sprang forward , seized her in his arms and kissed her , and plucked a rose from her hair . 
The fairy gave a cry , and begged him to give her back her rose , but he would not . 
He only stuck the rose in his hat , and turned a deaf ear to all her prayers . 
At last she saw that her entreaties were vain , and agreed to marry him , as he wished . 
And they went together to the palace , where Mogarzea was still waiting for him , and the marriage was celebrated by the emperor himself . 
But every May they returned to the Milk Lake , they and their children , and bathed in its waters . 
