But if one mentions the title Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm , recognition is instant . 
Everyone has heard of Rebecca her story has been in print continuously since it was first published in . 
It is certainly Mrs. Wiggin's most famous book , and the only one of her many books that is still in print . 
Everything else she wrote has slipped into complete obscurity . 
The Birds' Christas Carol is available as our Etext , Nov . 
to say that Rebecca had won his heart . 
Some eighty years later I happened to pick up and read Rebecca for the first time . 
There was never a sequel written , but The New Chronicles of Rebecca was published in , and contained some further chapters in the life of its heroine . 
I had to be satisfied with that , for the time being . 
It was first published in by Houghton , who published much of her other work at the time , and apparently was never published again . 
Shortly thereafter I found a copy of her autobiography . 
was born in Philadelphia , Pennsylvania , on September , . 
She was raised for the most part in Maine , which forms a backdrop to much of her fiction . 
She moved to California in the s , and became involved in the free kindergarten movement . 
Her first husband , Samuel Wiggin , died in . 
By then famous , she returned to New York and Maine . 
She moved in international social circles , lecturing and giving readings from her work . 
In she married for the second time . 
At her home in San Francisco , overlooking the Golden Gate and Marin County , she wrote her first book , The Birds' Christmas Carol , to raise money for her school . 
The book also proved to be her means of entrance into publishing , translation , and travel in elite circles throughout Europe . 
The book was republished many times thereafter , and translated into several languages . 
she also wrote a number of other popular novels in the early years of the th century , including Rebecca , and The Story of Waitstill Baxter . 
She died in , on August , at Harrow on Hill , England . 
Beverly Seaton observed , in American Women Writers , that Mrs. Wiggin was a popular writer who expressed what her contemporaries themselves thought of as 'real life' . 
The Village Watch Tower I think is a perfect example of that observation it captures vividly a few frozen moments of rural America , right at the twilight of the th century . 
Most of it was written in the village of Quillcote , Maine , her childhood home and certainly the model for the village of these stories . 
No attempt has been made to edit this book for consistency or to update or correct the spelling . 
Mrs. Wiggin's spelling is somewhat transitional between modern American and British spellings . 
The only liberty taken is that of removing extra spaces in contractions . 
, I have used wouldn't where the original has consistently would n't this is true for all such contractions with n't which appeared inordinately distracting to the modern reader . 
Your pink blossoms have fallen on the page as I wrote your ruddy fruit has dropped into my lap the sunshine streamed through your leaves and tipped my pencil with gold . 
KATE DOUGLAS WIGGIN Quillcote , Hollis , Maine , August , . 
The Village Watch Tower Tom o' the Blueb'ry Plains The Nooning Tree The Fore Room Rug A Village Stradivarius The Eventful Trip of the Midnight Cry THE VILLAGE WATCH TOWER . 
It stood on the gentle slope of a hill , the old gray house , with its weather beaten clapboards and its roof of ragged shingles . 
The elm , indeed , was the only object that ever did cast its shadow there . 
She was sitting now where she had sat for thirty years . 
Her high backed rocker , with its cushion of copperplate patch and its crocheted tidy , stood always by a southern window that looked out on the river . 
But Lucinda Bascom could see more than the river from her favorite window . 
It was a much traveled road , the road that ran past the house on its way from Liberty Village to Milliken's Mills . 
This was all on her side of the river . 
As for the bridge which knit together the two tiny villages , nobody could pass over that without being seen from the Bascoms' . 
, Jot himself , if he were in the house , little Jot , and grandpa Bascom , who looked at the passers by with a vacant smile parting his thin lips . 
She could not have lived without that window , she would have told you , nor without the river , which had lulled her to sleep ever since she could remember . 
It was in the south chamber upstairs that she had been born . 
Hurry on down to the next jam , Raish , and let it alone , cried the men . 
Mebbe it'll git washed off in the night , and anyhow you can't budge it with no kind of a tool we've got here . 
Girl ! came back the answer above the roar of the river . 
Whereupon Raish Dunnell steadied himself with his pick and taking a hatchet from his belt , cut a rude letter L on the side of the stranded log . 
L's for Lucindy , he laughed . 
Now you log if you git's fur as Saco , drop in to my wife's folks and tell 'em the baby's name . 
It had stood the wear and tear of the elements bravely , but now it was beginning , like Lucinda , to show its age . 
Land ! I can hear him now , yellin' to 'em , with his mouth full of victuals ! They hed to wait till he got good 'n' ready , too . 
There wa'n't so much comp'tition in business then as there is now , or he'd 'a' hed to give up eatin' or hire a clerk . 
I've always felt to be thankful that the house was on this rise o' ground . 
The neighbors is continually comin' in here to talk about things that's goin' on in the village . 
No invitations had been sent out , and none were needed . 
The sitting room door was open into the entry , so that whatever breeze there was might come in , and an unusual glimpse of the new foreroom rug was afforded the spectators . 
Everything was as neat as wax , for Diadema was a housekeeper of the type fast passing away . 
The kerosene lamps stood in a row on the high , narrow mantelpiece , each chimney protected from the flies by a brown paper bag inverted over its head . 
Two plaster Samuels praying under the pink mosquito netting adorned the ends of the shelf . 
There were screens at all the windows , and Diadema fidgeted nervously when a visitor came in the mosquito netting door , for fear a fly should sneak in with her . 
He may be goin' to marry Eunice , and he may not , observed Almira Berry though what she wants of Reuben Hobson is more 'n I can make out . 
I never see a widower straighten up as he has this last year . 
I guess he's been lookin' round pretty lively , but couldn't find anybody that was fool enough to give him any encouragement . 
Mebbe she wants to get married , said Hannah Sophia , in a tone that spoke volumes . 
When Parson Perkins come to this parish , one of his first calls was on Eunice Emery . 
He always talked like the book o' Revelation so says he , have you got your weddin' garment on , Miss Emery ? says he . 
No , says she , but I ben tryin' to these twenty years . 
She was always full of her jokes , Eunice was ! The Emerys was always a humorous family , remarked Diadema , as she annihilated a fly with a newspaper . 
Old Silas Emery was an awful humorous man . 
He hadn't a sign of a sofy in the house 't was his wife Sophy he meant , she that was Sophy Swett . 
There ! she's got a fire in the cook stove there's a stream o' smoke comin' out o' the kitchen chimbley . 
I'm willin' to bet my new rug she's goin' to be married tonight ! Mebbe she's makin' jell' , suggested Hannah Sophia . 
Jell' ! ejaculated Mrs. Jot scornfully . 
It's a dretful thick year for fol'age , mumbled grandpa Bascom , appearing in the door with his vacant smile . 
I declare some o' the maples looks like balls in the air . 
That's the twentieth time he's hed that over since mornin' , said Diadema . 
Here , father , take your hat off 'n' set in the kitchen door 'n' shell me this mess o' peas . 
Now think smart , 'n' put the pods in the basket 'n' the peas in the pan don't you mix 'em . 
Reuben needs a wife bad enough , if that's all , remarked the Widow Buzzell , as one who had given the matter some consideration . 
I should think he did , rejoined old Mrs. Bascom . 
Those children 'bout git their livin' off the road in summer , from the time the dand'lion greens is ready for diggin' till the blackb'ries 'n' choke cherries is gone . 
Diademy calls 'em in 'n' gives 'em a cooky every time they go past , 'n' they eat as if they was famished . 
Rube Hobson never was any kind of a pervider , 'n' he's consid'able snug besides . 
He ain't goin' to better himself much , said Almira . 
Eunice Emery ain't fit to housekeep for a cat . 
She lives from hand to mouth Eunice Emery does . 
She's about as much of a doshy as Rube is . 
I know for a fact she don't make riz bread once a year . 
Mebbe her folks likes buttermilk bread best some do , said the Widow Buzzell . 
My husband always said , give him buttermilk bread to work on . 
For massy sake ! there's the stage stoppin' at the Hobson's door . 
She must be goin' to stay some time , for there's a trunk on the back o' the stage . 
No , there ain't nobody gettin' out . 
Land , Hannah Sophia , don't push me clean through the glass ! It beats me why they make winders so small that three people can't look out of 'em without crowdin' . 
There goes a broom , too . 
Much sweepin' he'll get out o' Eunice it's a slick 'n' a promise with her ! When did you begin to suspicion this , Diademy ? asked Almira Berry . 
I've got as much faculty as the next one , but anybody that lives on the river road has just got to give up knowin' anything . 
You can't keep runnin' to the store every day , and if you could you don't find out much nowadays . 
Bill Peters don't take no more interest in his neighbors than a cow does in election . 
She had Packard's horse to go to Saco last week . 
When she got home , jest at dusk , she drove int' the barn , 'n' bimeby Pitt Packard come to git his horse , 't was her own buggy she went with . 
The Hobsons and the Emerys have married one another more 'n once , as fur as that goes . 
I declare if I was goin' to get married I should want to be relation to somebody besides my own folks . 
The reason I can hardly credit it , said Hannah Sophia , is because Eunice never had a beau in her life , that I can remember of . 
Cyse Higgins set up with her for a spell , but it never amounted to nothin' . 
I always said 't was she that begun on Rube Hobson , not him on her , remarked the Widow Buzzell . 
Their land joinin' made courtin' come dretful handy . 
, and then she'd hev to go over and git him to drive 'em out . 
She's wed his onion bed for him two summers , as I happen to know , for I've been ou' doors more 'n common this summer , tryin' to fetch my constitution up . 
Anybody'd think you was born yesterday , to hear you talk , Diademy , retorted her mother in law . 
Well , I vow , there's the little Hobson girls comin' out o' the door this minute , 'n' they 're all dressed up , and Mote don't seem to be with 'em . 
Every woman in the room rose to her feet , and Diadema removed her murderous eye from a fly which she had been endeavoring to locate for some moments . 
I guess they 're goin' up to the church to meet their father 'n' Eunice , poor little things , ventured the Widow Buzzell . 
P'raps they be , said old Mrs. Bascom sarcastically p'raps they be goin' to church , takin' a three quart tin pail 'n' a brown paper bundle along with 'em . 
They 're comin' over the bridge , just as I s'posed . 
Now , if they come past this house , you head 'em off , Almiry , 'n' see if you can git some satisfaction out of 'em . 
They ain't hardly old enough to hold their tongues . 
She had been vouch safed one of those gleams of light in darkness which almost dazzle the beholder . 
That's about the confirmingest thing I've heern yet ! she ejaculated , as she took off her shaker bonnet . 
They say they're goin' up to their aunt Hitty's to stay two days . 
They're dressed in their best , clean to the skin , for I looked 'n' it's their night gownds they've got in the bundle . 
There was two little round try cakes , baked in muffin rings . 
Eunice hed took some o' the batter out of a big loaf 'n' baked it to se how it was goin' to turn out . 
I don't see why you're so secret , objected Diadema . 
I've got my opinions , and I've had 'em some time , observed the good lady . 
I don't know 's I'm bound to tell 'em and have 'em held up to ridicule . 
Let the veal hang , I say . 
If any one of us is right , we'll all know to morrow . 
Some folks mistakes all they see for all there is . 
I was reading a detective story last week . 
It seems there was an awful murder in Schenectady , and a mother and her two children was found dead in one bed , with bullet holes in their heads . 
The husband was away on business , and there wasn't any near neighbors to hear her screech . 
Well , the detectives come from far and from near , and begun to work up the case . 
He took a train and went right to the man's house . 
that he owned right up and confessed the murder . 
I don't see as that's got anything to do with this case , said Diadema . 
Whoever he marries now , Mis' Bascom'll have to say 't was the one she meant , laughed the Widow Buzzell . 
I never was caught cheatin' yet , and if I live till Saturday I shall be seventy one years old , said the old lady with some heat . 
Hand me Jot's lead pencil , Diademy , and that old envelope on the winder sill . 
I'll write the name I think of , and shut it up in the old Bible . 
My hand's so stiff to day I can't hardly move it , but I guess I can make it plain enough to satisfy you . 
That's fair 'n' square , said Hannah Sophia , and for my pat I hope it ain't Eunice , for I like her too well . 
What they're goin' to live on is more 'n I can see . 
Eunice'll hev her hands full this winter , I guess , with them three hearty children 'n' him all wheezed up with phthisic from October to April ! . 
Who's that coming' down Tory Hill ? It's Rube's horse 'n' Rube's wagon , but it don't look like Rube . 
Yes , it's Rube but he's got a new Panama hat , 'n' he 's hed his linen duster washed , said old Mrs. Bascom . 
Now , do you mean to tell me that that woman with a stuck up hat on is Eunice Emery ? It ain't , 'n' that green parasol don't belong to this village . 
He's drivin' her into his yard ! . 
Just as I s'posed , it's that little , smirkin' worthless school teacher up to the Mills . 
Don't break my neck , Diademy can't you see out the other winder ? Yes , he's helpin' her out , 'n' showin' her in . 
Mebbe he'll drive her back in a few minutes . 
No , he's onhitched ! . 
He ain't got any more public sperit than a hedgehog , 'n' never had ! Almira drew on her mitts excitedly , tied on her shaker , and started for the door . 
I'm goin' over to Eunice's , she said , and I'm goin' to take my bottle of camphire . 
I shouldn't wonder a mite if I found her in a dead faint on the kitchen floor . 
Nobody need tell me she wa'n't buildin' hopes . 
I'll go with you , said the Widow Buzzell . 
I'd like to see with my own eyes how she takes it , 'n' it'll be too late to tell if I wait till after supper . 
If she'd ben more open with me 'n' ever asked for my advice , I could 'a' told her it wa'n't the first time Rube Hobson has played that trick . 
Hannah Sophia remained behind , promising to meet them at the post office and hear the news . 
Well Lucindy , you do make good use o' your winder , she exclaimed , but how you pitched on anything so onlikely as her is more'n I can see . 
Just because 't was onlikely . 
A man's a great sight likelier to do an onlikely thing than he is a likely one , when it comes to marryin' . 
They used to come down at night with their hands full o' 'ward o' merit cards . 
Do you s'pose I thought they got 'em for good behavior , or for knowin' their lessons ? Then aunt Hitty told me some question or other Rube had asked examination day . 
When I make out a case , observed Mrs. Bascom modestly , I ain't one to leave weak spots in it . 
If I guess at all , I go all over the ground 'n' stop when I git through . 
Now , sisters or no sisters , Maryabby Emery ain't spoke to Eunice sence she moved to Salem . 
I shall be watchin' here as usual to morrow morning' , 'n' if Maryabby don't drive int' Eunice's yard before noon I won't brag any more for a year to come . 
Hannah Sophia gazed at old Mrs. Bascom with unstinted admiration . 
I'm glad to see you so smart you always look slim , but I guess you'll tough it out's long 's the rest of us . 
I see your log was all right , last time I was down side o' the river . 
They say it 's jest goin' to break in two in the middle , and fall into the river , cheerfully responded Lucinda . 
They say it's just hanging' on by a thread . 
The next morning , little Mote Hobson , who had stayed all night with his uncle in Union , was walking home by the side of the river . 
Mote walked more quickly after that . 
It was quite a feather in his cap to see , with his own eyes , the old landmark slip from its accustomed place and float down the stream . 
The other boys would miss it and say , It's gone ! He would say , I saw it go ! Grandpa Bascom was standing at the top of the hill . 
His white locks were uncovered , and he was in his shirt sleeves . 
Baby Jot , as usual , held fast by his shaking hand , for they loved each other , these two . 
The cruel stroke of the sun that had blurred the old man's brain had spared a blessed something in him that won the healing love of children . 
How d' ye , Mote ? he piped in his feeble voice . 
Jot says she is , 'n' Diademy says she is , 'n' I guess she is . 
It 's a dretful thick year for fol'age . 
some o' the maples looks like balls in the air . 
Mote looked in at the window . 
The neighbors were hurrying to and fro . 
TOM O' THE BLUEB'RY PLAINS . 
In the distance , where the green of the earth joins the blue of the sky , gleams the silver line of a river . 
In among the blueberry bushes grow huckleberries , choky pears , and black snaps . 
Gnarled oaks and stunted pines lift themselves out of the wilderness of shrubs . 
They look dwarfed and gloomy , as if Nature had been an untender mother , and denied them proper nourishment . 
The road is a little traveled one , and furrows of feathery grasses grow between the long , hot , sandy stretches of the wheel ruts . 
The first goldenrod gleams among the loose stones at the foot of the alder bushes . 
Whole families of pale butterflies , just out of their long sleep , perch on the brilliant stalks and tilter up and down in the sunshine . 
Straggling processions of wooly brown caterpillars wend their way in the short grass by the wayside , where the wild carrot and the purple bull thistle are coming into bloom . 
All at once a voice breaks the stillness . 
Is it a child's , a woman's , or a man's ? Neither yet all three . 
I'd much d'ruth er walk in the bloom in' gy ar ding , An' hear the whis sle of the jol ly swain . 
Everybody knows the song , and everybody knows the cracked voice . 
The master of this bit of silent wilderness is coming home it is Tom o' the blueb'ry plains . 
He is more than common tall , with a sandy beard , and a mop of tangled hair straggling beneath his torn straw hat . 
A square of wet calico drips from under the back of the hat . 
His gingham shirt is open at the throat , showing his tanned neck and chest . 
Warm as it is , he wears portions of at least three coats on his back . 
His high boots , split in foot and leg , are mended and spliced and laced and tied on with bits of shingle rope . 
He carries a small tin pail of molasses . 
It has a bail of rope , and a battered cover with a knob of sticky newspaper . 
I call him the master of the plains , but in faith he had no legal claim to the title . 
It had long since tumbled into ruins and served for fire wood and even the chimney bricks had disappeared one by one , as the monotonous seasons came and went . 
Tom had settled himself in an old tool shop , corn house , or rude out building of some sort that had belonged to the ruined cottage . 
In the lower part of the hut he kept his basket stuff and his collection of two legged and three legged chairs . 
In the course of evolution they never sprouted another leg , those chairs as they were given to him , so they remained . 
The upper floor served for his living room , and was reached by a ladder from the ground , for there was no stairway inside . 
No one had ever been in the little upper chamber . 
There was something impressive about his way of repelling callers it was as effectual as a door slammed in the face , and yet there was a sort of mendacious courtesy about it . 
No one ever cared to go further and indeed there was no mystery to tempt the curious , and no spoil to attract the mischievous or the malicious . 
No home in the village was better loved than Tom's retreat in the blueberry plains . 
Poor Tom could never catch the last note . 
There were two gaunt pines that had been dropping their polished spills for centuries , perhaps silently adding , year by year , another layer of aromatic springiness to poor Tom's bed . 
'T ain't no hardship when you get used to it , said the Widow Buzzell . 
This was said with a beaming smile and a wise shake of the head , as if he were announcing a great discovery to an expectant world . 
And then he would lay down his burden of basket stuff , and , sitting under an apple tree in somebody's side yard , begin his task of willow bottoming an old chair . 
It was a pretty sight enough , if one could keep back the tears , the kindly , simple fellow with the circle of children about his knees . 
Never a village fool without a troop of babies at his heels . 
They love him , too , till we teach them to mock . 
Autumn began to paint the maples red and the elms yellow , for the early days of September brought a frost . 
He would surely starve or freeze , and his death would be laid at their door . 
Persuasion , logic , sharp words , all failed to move him one jot or tittle . 
, and saying to all visitors , Tom ain't ter hum Tom's gone to Bonny Eagle Tom don' want to go to the poor farm . 
The cheerful stir and bustle of the harvest were over , the corn was shocked , the apples and pumpkins were gathered into barns . 
The problem of Tom's future was finally laid before the selectmen and since the poor fellow's mild obstinancy had defeated all attempts to conquer it , the sheriff took the matter in hand . 
The blueberry plains looked bleak and bare enough now . 
It had rained incessantly for days , growing ever colder and colder as it rained . 
The sun came out at last , but it shone in a wintry sort of way , like a duty smile , as if light , not heat , were its object . 
A keen wind blew the dead leaves hither and thither in a wild dance that had no merriment in it . 
A blackbird flew under an old barrel by the wayside , and , ruffling himself into a ball , remarked despondently that feathers were no sort of protection in this kind of climate . 
The blueberry bushes were stripped bare of green . 
The stunted pines and sombre hemlocks looked in tone with the landscape now where all was dreary they did not seem amiss . 
Je whilikins ! exclaimed the sheriff as he drew up his coat collar . 
A madhouse is the place for the man who wants to live ou'doors in the winter time the poor farm is too good for him . 
But Tom was used to privation , and even to suffering . 
Ou'doors was the only home he knew , and with all its rigors he loved it . 
The plains were fatherland and mother country , home and kindred , to Tom . 
He loved the earth that nourished him , and he saw through all the seeming death in nature the eternal miracle of the resurrection . 
To him winter was never cruel . 
He looked underneath her white mantle , saw the infant spring hidden in her warm bosom , and was content to wait . 
Content to wait ? Content to starve , content to freeze , if only he need not be carried into captivity . 
The poor farm was not a bad place , either , if only Tom had been a reasonable being . 
The sheriff tied his horse to a tree , and Rube Hobson and Pitt Packard got out of the double wagon . 
Two men laughed when they saw the pathetic defense , but the other shut his lips together and caught his breath . 
They called Tom's name repeatedly , but no other sound broke the silence of the plains save the rustling of the wind among the dead leaves . 
Numb head ! muttered the sheriff , pounding on the side of the cabin with his whip stock . 
Tom ain't ter hum , it said Tom's gone to Bonny Eagle . 
That's all right ! guffawed the men but you've got to go some more , and go a diff'rent way . 
The men could see the inside of the chamber now . 
They were humorous persons who could strain a joke to the snapping point , but they felt , at last , that there was nothing especially amusing in the situation . 
Tom was huddled in a heap on the straw bed in the far corner . 
The vacant smile had fled from his face , and he looked , for the first time in his life , quite distraught . 
Come along , Tom , said the sheriff kindly we 're going to take you where you can sleep in a bed , and have three meals a day . 
I'd much d'ruth er walk in the bloom in' gy ar ding , sang Tom quaveringly , as he hid his head in a paroxysm of fear . 
Well , there ain't no bloomin' gardings to walk in jest now , so come along and be peaceable . 
Tom don' want to go to the poor farm , he wailed piteously . 
But there was no alternative . 
They dragged him off the bed and down the ladder as gently as possible then Rube Hobson held him on the back seat of the wagon , while the sheriff unhitched the horse . 
Tom remained at the poorhouse precisely twelve hours . 
It did not enter the minds of the authorities that any one so fortunate as to be admitted into that happy haven would decline to stay there . 
The unwilling guest disappeared early on the morrow of his arrival , and , after some search , they followed him to the old spot . 
He had climbed into his beloved retreat , and , having learned nothing from experience , had mended the willow door as best he could , and laid him down in peace . 
fight against a bed and three meals a day . 
The second attempt was little more successful than the first . 
As a place of residence , the poor farm did not seem any more desirable or attractive on near acquaintance than it did at long range . 
What should be done with him ? Public opinion was divided . 
Some people declared that the village had done its duty , and if the dog goned lunk head wanted to starve and freeze , it was his funeral , not theirs . 
Others thought that the community had no resource but to bear the responsibility of its irresponsible children , however troublesome they might be . 
There was entire unanimity of view so far as the main issues were concerned . 
Tom had fled from captivity for the third time . 
He had stolen out at daybreak , and , by an unexpected stroke of fortune , the molasses pail was hanging on a nail by the shed door . 
The joy that comes of freedom , and the freedom that comes of joy , unbent the old man's stiffened joints . 
He renewed his youth at every mile . 
He ran like a lapwing . 
His heard could hardly hold its burden of rapture when he caught the well known gleam of the white birches . 
He turned into the familiar path , boy's blood thumping in old man's veins . 
The past week had been a dreadful dream . 
A nameless dread flitted through his dull mind , chilling his warm blood , paralyzing the activity of the moment before . 
At last , with a sob like that of a frightened child who flies from some imagined evil lurking in darkness , he darted back to the white birches and started anew . 
Nothing but ashes ! Poor Tom o' the blueb'ry plains ! THE NOONING TREE . 
The giant elm stood in the centre of the squire's fair green meadows , and was known to all the country round about as the Bean ellum . 
The elm was almost as beautiful in one season as in another . 
In the spring it rose from moist fields and mellow ploughed ground , its tiny brown leaf buds bursting with pride at the thought of the loveliness coiled up inside . 
The men congregated under the spreading branches at twelve o' the clock , and spent the noon hour there , eating and swapping stories , as they were doing to day . 
Each had a tin pail , and each consumed a quantity of flour food that kept the housewives busy at the cook stove from morning till night . 
His pail contained four doughnuts , a quarter section of pie , six buttermilk biscuits , six ginger cookies , a baked cup custard , and a quart of cold coffee . 
This quantity was a trifle unusual , but every man in the group was lined throughout with pie , cemented with buttermilk bread , and riveted with doughnuts . 
One man sat apart from the rest , gloomily puffing rings of smoke into the air . 
This was the man from Tennessee , Matt Henderson , dubbed Dixie for short . 
He seemed a being from another sphere instead of from another section of the country . 
The man from Tennessee had something more than a melancholy temperament he had , or physiognomy was a lie , a sorrow tugging at his heart . 
I'm goin' to doze a spell , drawled Jabe Slocum , pulling his straw hat over his eyes . 
I've got to renew my strength like the eagle's , 'f I'm goin' to walk to the circus this afternoon . 
Wake me up , boys , when you think I'd ought to sling that scythe some more , for if I hev it on my mind I can't git a wink o' sleep . 
This was apparently a witticism at any rate , it elicited roars of laughter . 
It's one of Jabe's useless days he takes 'em from his great aunt Lyddy , said David Milliken . 
You jest dry up , Dave . 
Ef it took me as long to git to workin' as it did you to git a wife , I bate this hay wouldn't git mowed down to crack o' doom . 
This ellum can't be beat in the State o' Maine , nor no other state . 
That's what he called 'em , 'n' I never forgot it . 
Assidyus assidyus it don't sound as if it meant nothing' , to me . 
Assiduous means 'busy , said the man from Tennessee , who had suddenly waked from a brown study , and dropped off into another as soon as he had given the definition . 
Busy , does it ? Wall , I guess we ain't no better off now 'n we ever was . 
One tree's 'bout 's busy as another , as fur 's I can see . 
Wall , there is kind of a meanin' in it to me , but it'sturrible far fetched , remarked Jabe Slocum , rather sleepily . 
I guess you're 'bout right , allowed Steve , but I shouldn't never 'a' thought of it in the world . 
What yer takin' out o' that bottle , Jabe ? I thought you was a temperance man . 
I guess he 's like the feller over to Shandagee schoolhouse , that said he was in favor o' the law , but agin its enforcement ! laughed Pitt Packard . 
I ain't breakin' no law this is yarb bitters , Jabe answered , with a pull at the bottle . 
It's to cirkerlate his blood , said Ob Tarbox he's too dog goned lazy to cirkerlate it himself . 
Ain't yer scared fer fear it'll start yer growth , Laigs ? asked little Brad Gibson , looking at Jabe's tremendous length of limb and foot . 
Jabe Slocum's imperturbable good humor was not shaken in the very least by these personal remarks . 
If I thought 't was a good growin' medicine , I'd recommend it to your folks , Brad , he replied cheerfully . 
It was one Sunday , in the Catholic meetin' house . 
I'd allers wanted to go to a Catholic meetin' , an' I declare it's about the solemnest one there is . 
I mistrusted I was goin' to everlastin'ly giggle , but I tell yer I was the awedest cutter yer ever see . 
Poor Dan ! 'Grinnin' Dan , we used to call him . 
Well , he don't grin nowadays . 
Down on Steve Webster's hand came Jabe Slocum's immense paw with a grasp that made him cringe . 
What the began Steve , when the man from Tennessee took up his scythe and slouched away from the group by the tree . 
'Bout a year 'n' a half ago , this tall , han'some feller turned up here in Pleasant River . 
Wall , he got work in the cannin' fact'ry over on the Butterfield road , 'n' then he fell in with the Maddoxes . 
You 've hearn tell of 'em they're relation to Pitt here . 
I wouldn't own 'em if I met 'em on Judgement Bench ! exclaimed Pitt Packard hotly . 
Wall , Pitt's relations or not , they're all wuss 'n the Old Driver , as yer said 'bout Dan Robinson's wife . 
Dixie went to board there . 
Her daughter Fidelity was a chip o' the old block . 
In fidelity would 'a' ben a mighty sight more 'propriate but either of 'em is too long fer a name , so they got to callin' her Fiddy . 
Folks warned him , but 't wa'n't no use he was kind o' bewitched with her from the first . 
She wa'n't so han'some , neither . 
Blamed 'f I know how they do it let 'em alone , 'f yer know when yer 're well off , 's my motter . 
She hedn't any particular kind of a nose nor mouth nor eyes , but gorry ! when she looked at yer , yer felt kind as if yer was turnin' to putty inside . 
I know what yer mean , said Steve interestedly . 
Mis Maddox was lookin' up a new husband jest then , so 't she didn't interfere She was the same kind o' goods , anyhow , interpolated Ob Tarbox . 
As time went on , the widder got herself a beau now 'n' then but as fast as she hooked 'em , Fiddy up 'n' took 'em away from her . 
But Dixie , he was 's blind 's a bat 'n' deef 's a post . 
He could n't see nothin' but Fiddy , 'n' he couldn't see her very plain . 
He hed warnin's enough , put in Pitt Packard , though Jabe Slocum never needed any assistance in spinning a yarn . 
Warnin's ! I should think he hed . 
The Seventh Day Baptist minister went so fur as to preach at him . 
'The Apostle Paul gin heed , was the text . 
'Why did he gin heed ? says he . 
He 'n' Fiddy was seen over to the ballin' alley to Wareham next day , 'n' they didn't come back for a week . 
'He gin her his hand , And he made her his own , sang little Brad Gibson . 
How 'd the old woman take it ? asked Steve . 
'n' third place , fer alienatin' the 'fections of a travelin' baker man she hed her eye on fer herself . 
He was a kind of a flour food peddler , that used to drive a cart round by Hard Scrabble , Moderation , 'n' Scratch Corner way . 
Mis' Maddox used to buy all her baked victuals of him , 'specially after she found out he was a widower beginnin' to take notice . 
His cart used to stand at her door so long everybody on the rout would complain o' stale bread . 
But bime bye Fiddy begun to set at her winder when he druv up , 'n' bime bye she pinned a blue ribbon in her collar . 
When she done that , Mis' Maddox alles hed to take a back seat . 
The boys used to call it a danger signal . 
There was a spell I hed to say , Remember Rhapseny ! Remember Rhapseny ! over to myself whenever Fiddy put on her blue ribbons . 
Wall , as I say , Fiddy set at the winder , the baker man seen the blue ribbons , 'n' Mis' Maddox's cake was dough . 
'Gracious , mother , says Fiddy , 'I don't do nothin' but set at the winder . 
The sun shines for all . 
'You're right it does , says Mis' Maddox , ''n' that's jest what I complain of . 
I'd like to get a change to shine on something myself . 
Wall , to go back to Dixie I'll be comin' right along , boys . 
I pity you , Steve ! exclaimed Brad , between deep swallows . 
If you 'd known when you was well off , you 'd 'a' stayed in Boston . 
If Jabe hed a story started , he 'd talk three days after he was dead . 
, an' they 'peared bride 'n' groom at meetin' next Sunday . 
The last hundred dollars he hed in the world hed gone into the weddin' tower 'n' on to Fiddy's back . 
He hed a new suit , 'n' he looked like a major . 
Dixie kerried himself as proud as Lucifer . 
He didn't look at the minister 'n' he didn't look at the congregation his great eyes was glued on Fiddy , as if he couldn't hardly keep from eatin' of her up . 
An' she behaved consid'able well for a few months , as long 's the novelty lasted an' the silk dresses was new . 
Before Christmas , though , she began to peter out 'n' git slack twisted . 
Many 's the time he 's got her meals for her 'n' took 'em to her on a waiter . 
Them secesh fellers'll wait on women folks long as they can stan' up . 
Then bime bye the baby come along but that made things wuss 'stid o' better . 
She didn't pay no more 'tention to it than if it hed belonged to the town . 
Wall , sir , 'bout a month ago she up 'n' disappeared off the face o' the airth 'thout sayin' a word or leavin' a letter . 
She took her clo'es , but she never thought o' takin' the baby one baby more or less didn't make no odds to her s' long 's she hed that skeeter nettin' cape . 
Dixie sarched fer her high an' low fer a fortnight , but after that he give it up as a bad job . 
He found out enough , I guess , to keep him pretty busy thinkin' what he 'd do next . 
But day before yesterday the same circus that plays here this afternoon was playin' to Wareham . 
A lot of us went over on the evenin' train , an' we coaxed Dixie into goin' , so 's to take his mind off his trouble . 
But land ! he didn't see nothin' . 
Somebody must 'a' ben thinkin' o' Fiddy Maddox when the invented them whirl a go rounds . 
I pulled Dixie off , but I was too late . 
He give a groan I shall remember to my dyin' day , 'n' then he plunged out o' the crowd 'n' through the gate like a streak o' lightnin' . 
We follered , but land ! we couldn't find him , an' true as I set here , I never expected to see him alive agin . 
But I did I forgot all about one thing , you see , 'n' that was the baby . 
If it wa'n't no attraction to its mother , I guess he cal'lated it needed a father all the more . 
I don't seem as if she 'd 'a' ben brazen enough to come back so near him , said Steve . 
Wall , I don't s'pose she hed any idea o' Dixie's bein' at a circus over Wareham jest then an' ten to one she didn't care if the whole town seen her . 
She wanted to get rid of him , 'n' she didn't mind how she did it . 
She'd everlastin'ly spile 'bout a dozen of 'em 'n' smaller 'bout two mouthfuls . 
The men had dropped work and gone to the circus . 
Hush , ah , hush ! and the scythes are swinging Over the clover , over the grass . 
It was at Wareham , too , Wareham , where she had promised to be his wife , where she had married him only a year before . 
But this picture passed away , and he saw that maddening circle with the caracoling steeds . 
He head the discordant music , the monotonous creak of the machinery , the strident laughter of the excited riders . 
As first the thing was a blur , a kaleidoscope of whirling colors , into which there presently crept form and order . 
A boy who had cried to get on , and was now crying to get off . 
Old Rube Hobson and his young wife Rube looking white and scared , partly by the whizzing motion , and partly by the prospect of paying out ten cents for the doubtful pleasure . 
Pretty Hetty Dunnell with that young fellow from Portland she too timid to mount one of the mettle some chargers , and snuggling close to him in one of the circling seats . 
Could it tell whither it was hurrying ? NO but it was escaping from its present bonds it would never have to pass over these same jagged rocks again . 
On , on to the unknown ! called the river . 
But gradually the child's voice gained in strength , and as he heard it more plainly the other sounds grew fainter , till at last , thank God ! they were hushed . 
A heavy drop of rain pierced the thick foliage and fell on his face , but the storm within had been too fierce for him to heed the storm without . 
The circus had been the sole topic of conversation for a fortnight . 
Jot Bascom could always be relied on for the latest and most authentic news of its triumphant progress from one town to another . 
He was an attendant at every funeral , and as far as possible at every wedding , in the village at every flag raising and husking , and town and county fair . 
When more pressing duties did not hinder , he endeavored to meet the two daily trains that passed through Milliken's Mills , a mile or two from Pleasant River . 
He accompanied the sheriff on all journeys entailing serving of papers and other embarrassing duties common to the law . 
On one occasion , when the two lawyers of the village held an investigation before Trial Justice Simeon Porter , they waited an hour because Jot Bascom did not come . 
They knew that something was amiss , but it was only on reflection that they remembered that Jot was not indispensable . 
He went with all paupers to the Poor Farm , and never missed a town meeting . 
He knew all the conditions attending any swapping of horses that occurred within a radius of twenty miles , the terms of the trade and the amount paid to boot . 
He knew who owed the fish man and who owed the meat man , and who could not get trusted by either of them . 
In fact , so far as the divine attributes of omniscience and omnipresence could be vested in a faulty human creature , they were present in Jot Bascom . 
That he was quite unable to attend conscientiously to home duties , when overborne by press of public service , was true . 
When Diadema Bascom wanted kindling split , wood brought in , the cows milked , or the pigs fed , she commonly found her spouse serving humanity in bulk . 
The forerunners , outriders , proprietors , whatever they might be , had arrived and gone to the tavern . 
He pinched the twenty five cent piece in his pocket to assure himself that he was alive and in his right mind . 
The precious coin had been the result of careful saving , and his hot , excited hands had almost worn it thin . 
On the eventful afternoon of the performance the road was gay with teams . 
David and Samantha Milliken drove by in Miss Cummin's neat carryall , two children on the back seat , a will o' the wisp baby girl held down by a serious boy . 
Steve Webster was driving Doxy Morton in his mother's buggy . 
Jabe Slocum , Pitt Packard , Brad Gibson , Cyse Higgins , and scores of others were riding shank's mare , as they would have said . 
It had been a close , warm day , and as the afternoon wore away it grew hotter and closer . 
There was a dead calm in the air , a threatening blackness in the west that made the farmers think anxiously of their hay . 
Presently the thunderheads ran together into big black clouds , which melted in turn into molten masses of smoky orange , so that the heavens were like burnished brass . 
Drivers whipped up their horses , and pedestrians hastened their steps . 
Brad Gibson stooped to drink at a wayside brook , and as he bent over the water he heard a low , murmuring , muttering sound that seemed to make the earth tremble . 
Then from hill to hill leapt the live thunder . 
Even the distant mountains seemed to have found a tongue . 
A zigzag chain of lightning flashed in the lurid sky , and after an appreciable interval another peal , louder than the first , and nearer . 
The rain began to fall , the forked flashes of flame darted hither and thither in the clouds , and the boom of heaven's artillery grew heavier and heavier . 
The blinding sheets of light and the tumultuous roar of sound now followed each other so quickly that they seemed almost simultaneous . 
Flash crash flash crash flash crash blinding and deafening eye and ear at once . 
Everybody who could find a shelter of any sort hastened to it . 
The air was full of gloom a nameless terror lurked within it the elements seemed at war with each other . 
Horses whinnied in the stables , and colts dashed about the pastures . 
The cattle sought sheltered places the cows ambling clumsily towards some refuge , their full bags dripping milk as they swung heavily to and fro . 
The birds flew towards the orchards and the deep woods the swallows swooped restlessly round the barns , and hid themselves under the eaves or in the shadow of deserted nests . 
The rain now fell in sheets . 
Hurry up 'n' git under cover , Jabe , said Brad Gibson you're jest the kind of a pole to draw lightnin' ! You hain't , then ! retorted Jabe . 
A breath of wind sprang into the still air . 
Within the instant the meeting house steeple broke into a tongue of flame , and then , looking towards home , he fancied that the fireball dropped to earth in Squire Bean's meadow . 
The wind blew more fiercely now . 
There was a sudden crackling of wood , falling of old timers , and breaking of glass . 
The deadly fluid ran in a winding course down a great maple by the shed , leaving a narrow charred channel through the bark to tell how it passed to earth . 
A sombre pine stood up , black and burned , its heart gaping through a ghastly wound in the split trunk . 
The rainbow was reflected in the million drops glittering upon the bowed branches , turning each into a tear of liquid opal . 
The birds hopped on the prone magnificence , and eyed timorously a strange object underneath . 
The birds would build their nests and sing their idyls in other boughs . 
Diadema's seat had formerly been on the less desirable side of the little light stand , where Priscilla Hollis was now installed . 
It was a rainy Saturday afternoon , and the two women were alone . 
It was a pleasant , peaceful sitting room , as neat as wax in every part . 
Diadema Bascom was a person of some sentiment . 
A little whatnot in one corner was laden with the trophies of battle . 
There was also a little tin canister in which a charge of powder had been sacredly preserved . 
The scoffers , again , said that the cap'n put it in his musket when he went into the war , and kep' it there till he come out . 
These objects were tastefully decorated with the national colors . 
Rows of ripening tomatoes lay along the ledges of the windows , and a tortoise shell cat snoozed on one of the broad sills . 
The tall clock in the corner ticked peacefully . 
Not many weeks before she had paid one of her periodical visits to the attic . 
Once ensconced there , they had eaten through its hoarded relics , and reduced the faded finery to a state best described by Diadema as reg'lar riddlin' sieves . 
She had brought the tattered pile down in to the kitchen , and had spent a tearful afternoon in cutting the good pieces from the perforated garments . 
Her things and mine was laid in one trunk , and the moths sha'n't cheat me out of 'em altogether . 
We was the youngest of thirteen , Lovey and I , and we was twins . 
There 's never been more 'n half o' me left sence she died . 
We was born together , played and went to school together , got engaged and married together , and we all but died together , yet we wa'n't a mite alike . 
Well , I know what I want to put into my rag story , Miss Hollis , but I don't hardly know how to begin . 
Priscilla dropped her needle , and bent over the frame with interest . 
I've got my start now , and don't you say a word for a minute . 
The two roses grow out of one stalk they'll be Lovey and me , though I'm consid'able more like a potato blossom . 
The stalk 's got to be green , and here is the very green silk mother walked bride in , and Lovey and I had roundabouts of it afterwards . 
Mother had let her slip on her new green roundabout over her nightgown , just to pacify her , and there she set playing with the kitten Reuben Granger had brought her . 
He was only ten years old then , but he 'd begun courting Lovice . 
The Grangers' farm joined ours . 
They had eleven children , and mother and father had thirteen , and we was always playing together . 
Mother used to tell a funny story about that . 
Mother knew she 'd counted us straight , but she went round with a candle to make sure . 
They don't have such families nowadays . 
You see the stalk is mother's dress , and the outside green of the moss roses is the same goods , only it 's our roundabouts . 
I shall have to fill in dark , then , or mixed . 
I'll begin on Lovey's rose first . 
She was the prettiest and the liveliest girl in the village , and she had more beaux than you could shake a stick at . 
I generally had to take what she left over . 
She was only seventeen she hadn't ever experienced religion , and she was mischeevous as a kitten . 
The boys found it out , and used to call him 'Hogshead Jowett . 
He was the biggest fool in Foxboro' Four Corners and that 's saying consid'able , for Foxboro' is famous for its fools , and always has been . 
There was thirteen of 'em there one year . 
'Did you forget anything ? says she , sparkling out at him through a little crack . 
But when Reuben Granger come home , a full feathered out minister , he seemed to strike her fancy as he never had before , though they were always good friends from children . 
, and he and Lovey made the prettiest couple you ever see for she was dark complected , and her cheeks no otherways than scarlit the whole durin' time . 
She had a change of heart that winter in fact she had two of 'em , for she changed hers for Reuben's , and found a hope at the same time . 
There , I've begun both roses , and hers is 'bout finished . 
I sha'n't have more 'n enough white alapaca . 
It's lucky the moths spared one breadth of the wedding dresses we was married on the same day , you know , and dressed just alike . 
Now what next ? Wasn't there anybody at the wedding but you and Lovice ? asked Priscilla , with an amused smile . 
Land , yes ! The meeting house was cram jam full . 
Diadema sat for a few minutes in rapt thought , and then made a sudden inspired dash upstairs , where Miss Hollis presently heard her rummaging in an old chest . 
She soon came down , triumphant . 
Wa'n't it a providence I saved Jot's and Reuben's wedding ties ! And here they are , one yellow and green mixed , and one brown . 
That'll bring in the husbands and land ! I wouldn't have either of 'em know it for the world . 
I'll take a pattern of that lunar moth you pinned on the curtain yesterday . 
Miss Hollis smiled in spite of herself . 
Lovey was the pretty spoken , pretty appearing one I was always plain and practical . 
While I think of it , I'll draw in a little mite of this red into my carnation pink . 
It was a red scarf Reuben brought Lovey from Portland . 
It was the first thing he ever give her , and aunt Hitty said if one of the Abel Grangers give away anything that cost money , it meant business . 
We was both lucky that way . 
There ain't a stingy bone in Jot Bascom's body . 
He don't make much money , but what he does make goes into the bureau drawer , and the one that needs it most takes it out . 
He never asks me what I done with the last five cents he give me . 
You 've never been married Miss Hollis , and you ain't engaged , so you don't know much about it but I tell you there 's a heap o' foolishness talked about husbands . 
They see the face he turns to them , not the one he turns to you . 
Jot ain't a very good provider , nor he ain't a man that 's much use round a farm , but he 's such a fav'rite I can't blame him . 
There 's one thing when he does come home he 's got something to say , and he 's always as lively as a cricket , and smiling as a basket of chips . 
I like a man that 's good comp'ny , even if he ain't so forehanded . 
There ain't anything specially lovable about forehandedness , when you come to that . 
I shouldn't ever feel drawed to a man because he was on time with his work . 
There ain't anybody but Jot in this village that has wit enough to find out what 's going on , and tell it in an int'resting way round the tavern fire . 
There , I got so int'rested in what I was saying , I've went on and finished the carnation , and some of the stem , too . 
Now what comes next ? Why , the thing that happened next , of course , and that was little Jot . 
I'll work in a bud on my rose and one on Lovey's , and my bud'll be made of Jot's first trousers . 
The goods ain't very appropriate for a rosebud , but it'll have to do , for the idee is the most important thing in this rug . 
Buds are generally the same color as the roses , aren't they ? ventured Priscilla . 
I don't care if they be , said Diadema obstinately . 
But I don't know you've kind o' got me out o' conceit with it . 
I s'pose I could have taken a piece of his baby blanket but the moths never et a mite o' that , and it's too good to cut up . 
I agree with you , the idea is the first thing . 
Besides , the gray is a very light shade , and I dare say it will look like a bluish white . 
I'll try it and see , but I wish to the land the moths had eat the pinning blanket , and then I could have used it . 
Lovey worked the scallops on the aidge for me . 
I shall never forget them two weeks to the last day of my life . 
There was deep snow on the ground . 
I had that chamber there , with the door opening into the setting room . 
He don't forget his chores in time o' sickness . 
I never took so much comfort in all my days . 
There ain't any heaven in the book o' Revelations that 's any better than them two weeks was . 
I used to lay quiet in my good feather bed , fingering the pattern of my best crochet quilt , and looking at the fire light shining on Lovey and the baby . 
She 'd hardly leave him in the cradle a minute . 
When I did n't want him in bed with me , she 'd have him in her lap . 
Babies are common enough to most folks , but Lovey was diff'rent . 
Anyway , I never saw nobody else look as she done when she held my baby . 
I don't mean nothing blasphemious when I say 't was for all the world like your photograph of Mary , the mother of Jesus . 
The nights come in early , so it was 'most dark at four o'clock . 
Lovey used to set by the fire , with a tall candle on the light stand behind her , and a little white knit cape over her shoulders . 
'Mary's love may I possess , Lydia's tender heartedness , Peter's fervent spirit feel , James's faith by works reveal , Like young Timothy may I Every sinful passion fly . 
'Oh Diademy , she 'd say , 'you was always the best , and it 's nothing more 'n right the baby should have come to you . 
P'r'aps God will think I'm good enough some time and if he does , Diademy , I'll offer up a sacrifice every morning and every evening . 
But I'm afraid , says she , 'he thinks I can't stand any more happiness , and be a faithful follower of the cross . 
The Bible says we 've got to wade through fiery floods before we can enter the kingdom . 
And that was true as gospel . 
She thought everything Reuben done was just right , and he thought everything she done was just right . 
There wa'n't nobody else the world was all Reuben 'n' all Lovey to them . 
And Reuben would ketch her up as if she was a child , and scold her for not putting a hat on , and take her under his coat coming up the hill . 
They was a sight for the neighbors , I must confess , but it wa'n't one you could hardly disapprove of , neither . 
Aunt Hitty said it was tempting Providence and couldn't last , and God would visit his wrath on 'em for making idols of sinful human flesh . 
She was right one way , it didn't last but nobody can tell me God was punishing of 'em for being too happy . 
I guess he 'ain't got no objection to folks being happy here below , if they don't forget it ain't the whole story . 
Well , I must mark in a bud on Lovey's stalk now , and I'm going to make it of her baby's long white cloak . 
Time o' trial ! I thought I was happy , but I didn't know how to be as happy as Lovey did I wa'n't made on that pattern . 
, her eyes shone like two evening stars . 
I seen him give one look at the two dark heads laying close together on the white piller , and then go down on his knees by the side of the bed . 
'T wa'n't no place for me I went off , and left 'em together . 
We didn't mistrust it then , but they only had three days more of happiness , and I'm glad I give 'em every minute . 
The room grew dusky as twilight stole gently over the hills of Pleasant River . 
Priscilla's lip trembled Diadema's tears fell thick and fast on the white rosebud , and she had to keep wiping her eyes as she followed the pattern . 
I'll have to get the weight out o' my heart somehow . 
Three days after I put Lovey's baby into her arms the Lord called her home . 
She didn't speak a word after that she just faded away like a snowdrop , hour by hour . 
As for the baby , the poor little mite didn't live many hours after its mother , and we buried 'em together . 
Reuben and I knew what Lovey would have liked . 
She gave her life for the baby's , and it was a useless sacrifice , after all . 
When Reuben and I took our last look , we thought she seemed more 'n ever like Mary , the mother of Jesus . 
There never was another like her , and there never will be . 
'Nonesuch , Reuben used to call her . 
There was silence in the room , broken only by the ticking of the old clock and the tinkle of a distant cowbell . 
Priscilla made an impetuous movement , flung herself down by the basket of rags , and buried her head in Diadema's gingham apron . 
Dear Mrs. Bascom , don't cry . 
I'm sorry , as the children say . 
No , I won't more 'n a minute . 
Jot can't stand it to see me give way . 
You go and touch a match to the kitchen fire , so 't the kettle will be boiling , and I'll have a minute to myself . 
It was indeed a beautiful rug when it was finished and laid in front of the sofa in the fore room . 
Diadema was very choice of it . 
When company was expected she removed it from its accustomed place , and spread it in a corner of the room where no profane foot could possibly tread on it . 
Unexpected callers were managed by a different method . 
If they seated themselves on the sofa , she would fear they did not set easy or rest comfortable there , and suggest their moving to the stuffed chair by the window . 
The neighbors thought this solicitude merely another sign of Diadema's p'ison neatness , excusable in this case as there was so much white in the new rug . 
Diadema came in behind the little school teacher one afternoon . 
I cal'late , she said , that being kep' in a dark room , and never being tread on , it will last longer 'n I do . 
If it does , Priscilla , you know that white crepe shawl of mine I wear to meeting hot Sundays that would make a second row of everlastings round the border . 
You could piece out the linings good and smooth on the under side , draw in the white flowers , and fill 'em round with black to set 'em off . 
The rug would be han'somer than ever then , and the story would be finished . 
I. Goodfellow , Puck and goblins , Know more than any book . 
Down with your doleful problems , And court the sunny brook . 
The south winds are quick witted , The schools are sad and slow , The masters quite omitted The lore we care to know . 
Find the th page , Davy , and begin at the top of the right hand column . 
The boy turned the leaves of the old instruction book obediently , and then began to read in a sing song , monotonous tone 'One of Pag pag' Pag a ni ni's . 
'most dis as ter ous triumphs he had when playing at Lord Holland's . 
a rock into an abyss , were they disappear forever . 
Paggernyner listened quietly , and when the story was at an end he asked that all the lights should be distinguished . 
I believe it , and I can hear it myself when you read the story to me . 
I'm glad it doesn't , for my part , for I should have more housework to do than ever . 
Poor Davy ! you couldn't hate housework any worse if you were a woman but it is all done for to day . 
Now paint me one of your pictures , laddie make me see with your eyes . 
The boy put down the book and leaped out of the open door , barely touching the old millstone that served for a step . 
The bridge looks as if it was a silver string tying the two sides of the river together . 
The water is pink where the sun shines into it . 
All the leaves of the trees are kind of swimming in the red light , I tell you , nunky , just as if I was looking through red glass . 
The weather vane on Squire Bean's barn dazzles so the rooster seems to be shooting gold arrows into the river . 
I can see the tip top of Mount Washington where the peak of its snow cap touches the pink sky . 
The hen house door is open . 
The chickens are all on their roost , with their heads cuddled under their wings . 
He removed the covering with reverential hands . 
The tenderness of the face was like that of a young mother dressing or undressing her child . 
As he fingered the instrument his hands seemed to have become all eyes . 
When he had satisfied himself for the moment , he took the bow , and lifting the violin under his chin , inclined his head fondly toward it and began to play . 
Anthony Croft had been the only son of his mother , and she a widow . 
The school was the ordinary deestrick school of that time there were not enough scholars for what Cyse Higgins called a degraded school . 
The difference between Anthony and the other boys lay in the reason as well as the degree of his abhorrence . 
When he should have been poring over the sweet , palpitating mysteries of the multiplication table , his vagrant gaze was always on the open window near which he sat . 
The book was a mute , soulless thing that had no relation to his inner world of thought and feeling . 
He turned ever from the dead seven times six to the mystery of life about him . 
He was never a special favorite with his teachers that was scarcely to be expected . 
He could also fashion an interesting musical instrument in his desk by means of spools and catgut and bits of broken glass . 
There were ways , however , of evading inexorable law and circumventing base injustice . 
He hid the precious thing under a thistle just outside the window . 
The teacher had sometimes a brief season of apathy on hot afternoons , when she was hearing the primer class read , I see a pig . 
At such a moment Anthony slipped out of the window and snapped the tuning fork several times , just enough to save his soul from death , and then slipped in again . 
He was caught occasionally , but not often and even when he was , there were mitigating circumstances , for he was generally put under the teacher's desk for punishment . 
As he grew older there was no marked improvement , and Tony Croft was by general assent counted the laziest boy in the village . 
That he was lazy in certain matters merely because he was in a frenzy of industry to pursue certain others had nothing to do with the case , of course . 
He was one incarnate Why and How , one brooding wonder and interrogation point . 
He knew just where to find the first Mayflowers , and would bring home the waxen beauties when other people had scarcely begun to think about the spring . 
He could tell where to look for the rare fringed gentian , the yellow violet , the Indian pipe . 
There were clefts in the rocks of the Indian Cellar where , when every one else failed , he could find harebells and columbines . 
There was nothing about the building of nests with which he was not familiar . 
He could have taken hold and helped if the birds had not been so shy , and if he had had beak and claw instead of clumsy fingers . 
Still , Tony was a good son , affectionate , considerate , and obedient . 
It never occurred to her that he was in any way remarkable . 
If he were difficult to understand , it reflected more upon his eccentricity than upon her density . 
About this period Tony spent hours in the attic arranging bottles and tumblers into a musical scale . 
As an example of this attitude , Dr . 
Berry's wife's melodeon had lost two stops , the pedals had severed connection with the rest of the works , it wheezed like an asthmatic , and two black keys were missing . 
He had to plead with Cyse Higgins for a week before that prudent young farmer would allow him to touch his five dollar fiddle . 
He obtained permission at last only because by offering to give Cyse his calf in case he spoiled the violin . 
So great was his confidence in Tony's skill that Squire Bean trusted his father's violin to him , one that had been bought in Berlin seventy years before . 
It had been hanging on the attic wall for a half century , so that the back was split in twain , the sound post lost , the neck and the tailpiece cracked . 
The lad took it home , and studied it for two whole evenings before the open fire . 
The problem of restoring it was quite beyond his abilities . 
He finally took the savings of two summers' blueberry money and walked sixteen miles to Portland , where he bought a book called The Practical Violinist . 
The Supplement proved to be a mine of wealth . 
Even the headings appealed to his imagination and intoxicated him with their suggestions , On Scraping , Splitting , and Repairing Violins , Violin Players , Great Violinists , Solo Playing , etc . 
Let it be understood that your violin is 'converted , and such an obligation will no longer lie against it . 
Such a use of the violin , notwithstanding the prejudices many hold against it , must contribute to virtue , and furnish abundance of innocent and entirely unobjectionable amusement . 
These are the views with which I hope you have adopted it , and will continue to cherish and cultivate it . 
There is no bard in all the choir , . 
Now began an era of infinite happiness , of days that were never long enough , of evenings when bedtime came all too soon . 
Thus all beauty that appears Has birth as sound to finer sense And lighter clad intelligence . 
As the universe is all mechanism to one man , all form and color to another , so to Anthony Croft the world was all melody . 
The seventeenth year of his life marked a definite epoch in his development . 
It was in this year , also , that he made a very precious discovery . 
The wood , therefore , was perhaps eighty or ninety years old . 
The squire agreed willingly that it should be used to mend the old violin , and told Tony he should have what was left for himself . 
And according to his promise so he did , and the pieces of richly curled maple , of sycamore , and of spruce began to accumulate . 
And as if the year were not full enough of glory , the school teacher sent him a book with a wonderful poem in it . 
That summer's teaching had been the freak of a college student , who had gone back to his senior year strengthened by his experience of village life . 
Anthony Croft , who was only three or four years his junior , had been his favorite pupil and companion . 
How does Tony get along ? asked the Widow Croft when the teacher came to call . 
Tony ? Oh , I can't teach him anything . 
Tears sprang to the mother's eyes . 
I know he ain't much on book learning , she said apologetically , but I'm bound he don't make you no trouble in deportment . 
The mother listened with painful intentness . 
I like the sound of it , she said , but I can't hardly say I take in the full sense . 
Poor Anthony Croft , or blessed Anthony Croft , I know not which , God knows ! Poor he certainly was , yet blessed after all . 
One thing I do , said Paul . 
One thing I do , said Anthony . 
He was not able to realize his ideals , but he had the angel aim by which he idealized his reals . 
O waiting heart of God ! how soon would thy kingdom come if we all did our allotted tasks , humble or splendid , in this consecrated fashion ! III . 
Therein I hear the Parcae reel The threads of man at their humming wheel , The threads of life and power and pain , So sweet and mournful falls the strain . 
Old Mrs. Butterfield had had her third stroke of paralysis , and died of a Sunday night . 
She was all alone in her little cottage on the river bank , with no neighbor nearer than Croft's , and nobody there but a blind man and a small boy . 
No response followed the repeated blows from her hard knuckles . 
She then tapped smartly on Mrs. Butterfield's bedroom window with her thimble finger . 
This proving of no avail , she was obliged to pry open the kitchen shutter , split open a mosquito netting with her shears , and crawl into the house over the sink . 
This was a considerable feat for a somewhat rheumatic elderly lady , but this one never grudged trouble when she wanted to find out anything . 
Funerals were the very breath of her life . 
There was no ceremony , either of public or private import , that , to her mind , approached a funeral in real satisfying interest . 
Yet , with distinct talent in this direction , she had always been cabined , cribbed , confined within hopeless limitations . 
She had assisted in a secondary capacity at funerals in the families of other people , but she would have reveled in personally conducted ones . 
This blighted ambition was a heart sorrow of so deep and sacred a character that she did not even confess it to Si , as her appendage of a husband was called . 
Now at last her chance for planning a funeral had come . 
The niece would be sent for when they found out where she lived meanwhile the funeral could not be put off . 
She glanced round the house preparatory to locking it up and starting to notify Anthony Croft . 
She would just run over and talk to him about ordering the coffin then she could attend to all other necessary preliminaries herself . 
The Butterfield coffin plates were a thing to be proud of . 
They had been sacredly preserved for years and years , and the entire collection numbering nineteen in all had been framed , and adorned the walls of the deceased lady's best room . 
Aunt Hitty planned certain dramatic details as she walked town the road to Croft's . 
It came to her in a burst of inspiration that she would have two ministers one for the long prayer , and one for the short prayer and the remarks . 
She hoped that Elder Weeks would be adequate in the latter direction . 
To be sure , he needed priming , but she was equal to that . 
As she had helped him out of the wagon she had said Are you prepared ? I thought not but there's no time to lose . 
The girl in the corner by the clock is the one that the remains has been keeping comp'ny with . 
If you can make some genteel allusions to her , it'll be much appreciated by his folks . 
As to the long prayer , she knew that the Rev . 
Mr. Ford could be relied on to pray until aunt Becky Burnham should twitch him by the coat tails . 
She had done it more than once . 
She had also , on one occasion , got up and straightened his ministerial neckerchief , which he had gradually prayed around his saintly neck until it was behind the right ear . 
These plans proved so fascinating to aunt Hitty that she walked quite half a mile beyond Croft's , and was obliged to retrace her steps . 
She conceived bands of black alpaca for the sleeves and hats of the pallbearers , and a festoon of the same over the front gate , if there should be any left over . 
She planned the singing by the choir . 
There had been no real choir singing at any funeral in Edgewood since the Rev . 
She would ask them to open with Rebel mourner , cease your weepin' . 
This was a favorite funeral hymn . 
It was exasperating to think of the public spirit at Egypt , and contrast it with the state of things at Pleasant River . 
In Egypt they had sold the old hearse house for a sausage shop , and now they were having hearse sociables every month to raise money for a new one . 
All these details flew through aunt Hitty's mind in fascinating procession . 
There shouldn't be a hitch anywhere . 
There had been a hitch at her last funeral , but she had been only an assistant there . 
Her comment to Si , as she went to her virtuous couch that night , was It was an awful dry funeral , but that was the only flaw in it . 
It would 'a' ben perfect if there' ben anybody to shed tears . 
And this is the way that Lyddy Butterfield came into her kingdom , a little lone brown house on the river's brim . 
She had seen it only once before when she had driven out from Portland , years ago , with her aunt . 
Mrs. Butterfield lived in Portland , but spent her summers in Edgewood on account of her chickens . 
She always explained that the country was dreadful dull for her , but good for the hens they always laid so much better in the winter time . 
Lyddy liked the place all the better for its loneliness . 
When she was a mere infant , her brother was holding her on his knee before the great old fashioned fireplace heaped with burning logs . 
A sudden noise startled him , and the crowing , restless baby gave an unexpected lurch , and slipped , face downward , into the glowing embers . 
It was a full minute before the horror stricken boy could extricate the little creature from the cruel flame that had already done its fatal work . 
The baby escaped with her life , but was disfigured forever . 
As she grew older , the gentle hand of time could not entirely efface the terrible scars . 
One cheek was wrinkled and crimson , while one eye and the mouth were drawn down pathetically . 
She became , in course of time , a kind of general nursery governess in a large family of motherless children . 
Forty , that is rather old to be interesting , but age is a relative matter . 
He shall daily joy dispense Hid in song's sweet influence . 
Lyddy had very few callers during her first month as a property owner in Edgewood . 
Her appearance would have been against her winning friends easily in any case , even if she had not acquired the habits of a recluse . 
Aunt Hitty thought Lyddy a Goth and a Vandal because she took down the twenty silver coffin plates and laid them reverently away . 
Mis' Butterfield would turn in her grave , she said , if she knew it . 
She ain't much of a housekeeper , I guess , she went on , as she cut over Dr . 
Berry's old trousers into briefer ones for Tommy Berry . 
My back door's jest opposite hers it's across the river , to be sure , but it's the narrer part , and I can see everything she does as plain as daylight . 
She washed a Monday , and she ain't taken her clothes in yet , and it's Thursday . 
She may be bleachin' of 'em out , but it looks slack . 
I ain't sure , for she don't open the blinds in that room till I get away in the morning , and she shuts 'em before I get back at night . 
Si don't know red from green , so he's useless in such matters . 
As a matter of fact , Lyddy was reveling in house furnishing of a humble sort . 
She had a passion for color . 
There was a red and white straw matting on the sitting room floor . 
I hope Mrs. Butterfield was happy enough in Paradise to appreciate and feel Lyddy's joy . 
I can even believe she was glad to have died , since her dying could bring such content to any wretched living human soul . 
As Lydia sat in the firelight , the left side of her poor face in shadow , you saw that she was distinctly harmonious . 
Her figure , clad in plain black and white calico dress , was a graceful , womanly one . 
She had beautifully sloping shoulders and a sweet wrist . 
Her hair was soft and plentiful , and her hands were fine , strong , and sensitive . 
Lydia felt a little less bitter and hopeless about life when she sat in front of her own open fire , after her usual twilight walk . 
She drew nearer , and saw a , middle aged man sitting in the kitchen doorway , with a lad of ten or twelve years leaning against his knees . 
She could tell little of his appearance , save that he had a high forehead , and hair that waved well back from it in rather an unusual fashion . 
He was in his shirt sleeves , but the gingham was scrupulously clean , and he had the uncommon refinement of a collar and necktie . 
Out of sight herself , Lyddy drew near enough to hear and this she did every night without recognizing that the musician was blind . 
The music had a curious effect upon her . 
It was a hitherto unknown influence in her life , and it interpreted her , so to speak , to herself . 
Remember that in her secluded life she had heard only such harmony as Elvira Reynolds evoked from her piano or George Reynolds from his flute , and the Reynolds temperament was distinctly inartistic . 
Lyddy lived through a lifetime of emotion in these twilight concerts . 
The viol whispers in enamoured tone Sweet oracles of woods and dells , And summer windy ill sylvan cells . 
All this it knows , but will not tell To those who cannot question well The spirit that inhabits it . 
But , sweetly as its answers will Flatter hands of perfect skill , It keeps its highest , holiest tone For one beloved Friend alone . 
Lyddy Butterfield's hen turkey was of a roving disposition . 
She had never appreciated her luxurious country quarters in Edgewood , and was seemingly anxious to return to the modest back yard in her native city . 
Lyddy had caught her at it once , and was now pursuing her to that end for the second time . 
She paused in front of the house , but there were no turkeys to be seen . 
She had never really seen him before in the daylight , and there was something about his appearance that startled her . 
The teakettle was on the floor , and a sea of water was flooding the man's feet , yet he seemed to be gazing into vacancy . 
Presently he stooped , and fumbled gropingly for the kettle . 
The boy called again in a louder and more insistent tone , ending in a whimper of restless pain . 
This seemed to make the man more nervous than ever . 
His hands went patiently over and over the shelf , then paused at each separate nail . 
Bless the poor dear ! thought Lyddy . 
Is he trying to find his hat , or what is he trying to do ? I wonder if he is music mad ? and she drew still nearer the steps . 
At this moment he turned and came rapidly toward the door . 
She looked straight in his face . 
There was no mistaking it he was blind . 
His sightless eyes struck her like a blow . 
But there was no time to lose . 
Who is it ? he asked . 
I am it is I am your new neighbor , said Lyddy , with a trembling attempt at cheerfulness . 
Oh , Miss Butterfield ! I should have called up to see you before this if it hadn't been for the boy's sickness . 
But I am a good for nothing neighbor , as you have doubtless heard . 
Nobody expects anything of me . 
I don't know about that , she answered swiftly . 
You've given me , for one , a great deal of pleasure with your wonderful music . 
I often hear you as you play after supper , and it has kept me from being lonesome . 
That isn't very much , to be sure . 
The reason came to her in the same flash she was not being looked at her disfigured face was hidden . 
This man , at least , could not shrink , turn away , shiver , affect indifference , fix his eyes on hers with a fascinated horror , as others had done . 
Her heart was divided between a great throb of pity and sympathy for him and an irresistible sense of gratitude for herself . 
Sure of protection and comprehension , her lovely soul came out of her poor eyes and sat in the sunshine . 
She spoke her mind at ease , as we utter sacred things sometimes under cover of darkness . 
You seem to have had an accident what can I do to help you ? she asked . 
The boy has been sick for some days , but he seems worse since last night . 
Uncle Tony ! Uncle To ny ! where are you ? Do give me another drink , I'm so hot ! came the boy's voice from within . 
Coming , laddie ! I don't believe he ought to drink so much water , but what can I do ? He is burning up with fever . 
Now look here , Mr. Croft , and Lydia's tone was cheerfully decisive . 
You sit down in that rocker , please , and let me command the ship for a while . 
This is one of the cases where a woman is necessary . 
First and foremost , what were you hunting for ? My hat and the butter , said Anthony meekly , and at this unique combination they both laughed . 
Lyddy's laugh was particularly fresh , childlike , and pleased one that would have astonished the Reynolds children . 
She had seldom laughed heartily since little Rufus had cried and told her she frightened him when she twisted her face so . 
Be good enough to look at the boy and tell me what ails him nothing else matters much . 
I will with pleasure , but let me ease you a little first . 
This done , she hound up the burned hand skillfully , and , crossing the dining room , disappeared within the little chamber door beyond . 
I'm ever so much more capable than Mrs. Buck won't you give me a trial , sir ? Here's your violin and your hat . 
I'll call you if you can help or advise me . 
But I can't let a stranger come in and do my housework , he objected . 
I can't , you know , though I appreciate your kindness all the same . 
I haven't got a thing to do in my own house . 
I am nothing but a poor lonely old maid , who's been used to children all her life , and likes nothing better than to work over them . 
A calm settled upon Anthony's perturbed spirit , as he sat under the apple trees and heard Lyddy going to and fro in the cottage . 
She isn't any old maid , he thought she doesn't step like one she has soft shoes and a springy walk . 
She must be a very handsome woman , with a hand like that and such a voice ! I knew the moment she spoke that she didn't belong in this village . 
As a matter of fact , his keen ear had caught the melody in Lyddy's voice , a voice full of dignity , sweetness , and reserve power . 
These charms would never have been noted by any seeing man in Edgewood , but they were revealed to Anthony Croft while Lyddy , like the good Samaritan , bound up his wounds . 
It is these saving stars that light the eternal darkness of the blind . 
Lyddy thought she had met her Waterloo when , with arms akimbo , she gazed about the Croft establishment , which was a scene of desolation for the moment . 
Between times Davy and his uncle did the housework together and although it was respectably done , there was no pink and white daintiness about it , you may be sure . 
I couldn't help it , you see , when I was making things tidy . 
It would do you good to see the boy . 
His room was too light , and the flies were devouring him . 
Fifteen minutes after he was sleeping like a kitten . 
He has a sore throat and considerable fever . 
Could you can you at least , will you , go up to my house on an errand ? Certainly I can . 
I know it inside and out as well as my own . 
On the clock shelf in the sitting room there is a bottle of sweet spirits of nitre it's the only bottle there , so you can't make any mistake . 
It will help until the doctor comes . 
I wonder you didn't send for him yesterday ? Davy wouldn't have him , apologized his uncle . 
Wouldn't he ? said Lyddy with cheerful scorn . 
He has you under pretty good control , hasn't he ? But children are unmerciful tyrants . 
Couldn't you coax him into it before you go home ? asked Anthony in a wheedling voice . 
I can try but it isn't likely I can influence him , if you can't . 
Still , if we both fail , I really don't see what 's to prevent our sending for the doctor in spite of him . 
He missed his mother that morning more than he had missed her for years . 
He could hear her pour her coffee into the saucer hear the scraping of the cup on the rim , and know that she was setting it sloppily down on the cloth . 
He could remember her noisy drinking , the weight of her elbow on the table , the creaking of her calico dress under the pressure of superabundant flesh . 
Besides , she had tried to scrub his favorite violin with sapolio . 
No , anything was better than Mrs. Buck as a constancy . 
He took off his hat unconsciously as he entered Lyddy's sitting room . 
A gentle breeze blew one of the full red curtains towards him till it fluttered about his shoulders like a frolicsome , teasing hand . 
Lyddy went home at seven o'clock that night rather reluctantly . 
The doctor had said Mr. Croft could sit up with the boy unless he grew much worse , and there was no propriety in her staying longer unless there was danger . 
You have been very good to me , Anthony said gravely , as he shook her hand at parting , very good . 
They stood together on the doorstep . 
A distant bell , called to evening prayer meeting the restless murmur of the river and the whisper of the wind in the pines broke the twilight stillness . 
The long , quiet day together , part of it spent by the sick child's bedside , had brought the two strangers curiously near to each other . 
Was it long ago ? Ten years . 
Is that long ? Long to bear a burden . 
I hope you know little of burden bearing ? I know little else . 
I might have guessed it from the alacrity with which you took up Davy's and mine . 
You must be very happy to have the power to make things straight and sunny and wholesome to breathe your strength into helplessness such as mine . 
I thank you , and I envy you . 
Lyddy turned on her heel without a word her mind was beyond and above words . 
I never could do it before , but I thank Thee to night for life on any terms . 
I thank Thee for this home for the chance of helping another human creature , stricken like myself for the privilege of ministering to a motherless child . 
Make me to long only for the beauty of holiness , and to be satisfied if I attain to it . 
Wash my soul pure and clean , and let that be the only mirror in which I see my face . 
I have tried to be useful . 
Forgive me if it always seemed so hard and dreary a life . 
I have spent my forty years in the wilderness , feeding on wrath and bitterness and tears . 
Forgive me , Lord , and give me one more vision of the blessed land of Canaan , even if I never dwell there . 
Nor less the eternal poles Of tendency distribute souls . 
There need no vows to bind Whom not each other seek , but find . 
Davy's sickness was a lingering one . 
Anthony could hear them talk , as he sat in the kitchen busy at his work . 
Musical instruments were still brought him to repair , though less frequently than of yore , and he could still make many parts of violins far better than his seeing competitors . 
A friend and pupil sat by his side in the winter evenings and supplemented his weakness , helping and learning alternately , while his blind master's skill filled him with wonder and despair . 
The one sense stricken with death , she poured floods of new life and vigor into the others . 
He often paused to hear Lydia's low , soothing tones and the boy's weak treble . 
Anthony had said to him once , Miss Butterfield is very beautiful , isn't she , Davy ? You haven't painted me a picture of her yet . 
How does she look ? Davy was stricken at first with silent embarrassment . 
He was a truthful child , but in this he could no more have told the whole truth than he could have cut off his hand . 
He was knit to Lyddy by every tie of gratitude and affection . 
Her hair has a pretty wave in it , and her hand is soft on your forehead and it's most worth while being sick just to have her in the house . 
Meanwhile , so truly is praise our fructifying sun , Lydia bloomed into a hundred hitherto unsuspected graces of mind and heart and speech . 
Davy had long afternoons at Lyddy's house as the autumn grew into winter . 
Anthony brought his violin sometimes of an evening , and Almira Berry , the next neighbor on the road to the Mills , would drop in and join the little party . 
But there , she can afford to , said aunt Hitty Tarbox she's pretty middlin' wealthy for Edgewood . 
And it's lucky she is , for she 'bout feeds that boy o' Croft's . 
No wonder he wants her to fill him up , after six years of the Widder Buck's victuals . 
Anthony goes to see Miss Butterfield consid'able often . 
Of course it's awstensibly to walk home with Davy , or do an errand or something , but everybody knows better . 
She went down to Croft's pretty nearly every day when his cousin from Bridgton come to house clean . 
She suspicioned something , I guess . 
Anyhow , she asked me if Miss Butterfield's two hundred a year was in gov'ment bonds . 
Anthony's eyesight ain't good , but I guess he could make out to cut cowpons off . 
It would be strange if them two left overs should take an' marry each other though , come to think of it , I don't know's 't would neither . 
He's blind , to be sure , and can't see her scarred face . 
It's a pity she ain't deef , so't she can't hear his everlastin' fiddle . 
She's lucky to get any kind of a husband she's too humbly to choose . 
I never see anybody stiffen up as Anthony has . 
He had me make him three white shirts and three gingham ones , with collars and cuffs on all of 'em . 
It seems as if six shirts at one time must mean something out o' the common ! Aunt Hitty was right it did mean something out of the common . 
It meant the growth of an all engrossing , grateful , divinely tender passion between two love starved souls . 
And Lyddy ? There is no pen worthy to write of Lyddy . 
Her joy lay deep in her heart like a jewel at the bottom of a clear pool , so deep that no ripple or ruffle on the surface could disturb the hidden treasure . 
If God had smitten these two with one hand , he had held out the other in tender benediction . 
There had been a pitiful scene of unspeakable solemnity when Anthony first told Lyddy that he loved her , and asked her to be his wife . 
If I marry you , people will always blame me and pity you . 
You would never ask me to be your wife if you could see my face you could not love me an instant if you were not blind . 
Then I thank God unceasingly for my infirmity , said Anthony Croft , as he raised her to her feet . 
Anthony and Lyddy Croft sat in the apple orchard , one warm day in late spring . 
Anthony's work would have puzzled a casual on looker . 
Ten stout wires were stretched between two trees , fifteen or twenty feet apart , and each group of five represented the lines of the musical staff . 
Wooden bars crossed the wires at regular intervals , dividing the staff into measures . 
Davy was reading at the window , his curly head buried in a well worn Shakespeare opened at Midsummer Night's Dream . 
Lyddy was sitting under her favorite pink apple tree , a mass of fragrant bloom , more beautiful than Aurora's morning gown . 
She was sewing lining with snowy lawn innumerable pockets in a square basket that she held in her lap . 
The pockets were small , the needles were fine , the thread was a length of cobweb . 
Everything about the basket was small except the hopes that she was stitching into it they were so great that her heart could scarcely hold them . 
The seeds were springing in the warm earth . 
The hens were clucking to their downy chicks just out of the egg . 
A sweet gravity and consecration of thought possessed her , and the pink blossoms falling into her basket were not more delicate than the rose colored dreams that flushed her soul . 
Lyddy dropped her needle , the birds stopped to listen , and Anthony played . 
Love and hope had made a poet of Lyddy . 
I think Davy is right , she said . 
It is a dream of the future , the story of all new and beautiful things growing out of the old . 
It is full of the sweetness of present joy , but there is promise and hope in it besides . 
It is like the Spring sitting in the lap of Winter , and holding a baby Summer in her bosom . 
THE EVENTFUL TRIP OF THE MIDNIGHT CRY . 
In the little villages along the Saco River , in the year or thereabouts , the arrival and departure of the stage coach was the one exciting incident of the day . 
There was a perennial twinkle in his eye , his ruddy cheeks were wrinkled with laughter , and he had a good story forever on the tip of his tongue . 
his shoulders were broad in proportion , and his lungs just the sort to fill amply his noble chest . 
He always sat in one corner of the fireplace , poker in hand , and the crowd tacitly allowed him the role of Greek chorus . 
Indeed , nobody could have told a story properly without Jake Bean's parentheses and punctuation marks poked in at exciting junctures . 
That 's so every time ! he would say , with a lunge at the forestick . 
I'll bate he was glad then ! with another stick flung on in just the right spot . 
Golly ! but that served 'em right ! with a thrust at the backlog . 
the blazing logs to poke and a cavernous fireplace into which tobacco juice could be neatly and judiciously directed . 
As a proof of this lady's strong individuality , she was still generally spoken of as the Widder Bixby , though she had been six years wedded to Jeremiah Todd . 
The Widder Bixby , then , was strong , self reliant , valiant , indomitable . 
Jerry Todd was , to use his wife's own characterization , so soft you could stick a cat's tail into him without ruffling the fur . 
The Widder Bixby's record was far different . 
She was the mildest of the four Stover sisters of Scarboro , and the quartette was supposed to have furnished more kinds of temper than had ever before come from one household . 
When Peace , the eldest , was mad , she frequently kicked the churn out of the kitchen door , cream and all , and that lost her a husband . 
Love , the second , married , and according to local tradition once kicked her husband all the way up Foolscap Hill with a dried cod fish . 
Charity , the third , married too , for the Stovers of Scarboro were handsome girls , but she got a fit mate in her spouse . 
They had had a stormy breakfast one morning before he started to Portland with a load of hay . 
Good by , she called , as she stood in the door , you've seen the last of me ! No such luck ! he said , and whipped up his horse . 
Charity baked a great pile of biscuits , and left them on the kitchen table with a pitcher of skimmed milk . 
She then put a few clothes in a bundle , and , tying on her shaker , prepared to walk to Pleasant River , twelve miles distant . 
Nobody went by during the operation , and the agent remarked , as he unhitched his horse , that he had never done a neater job . 
Why , they'll come as far to see your house as they will to the circus ! he exclaimed . 
I calculate they will , said Charity , as she latched the gate and started for Pleasant River . 
I am not telling Charity Stover's story , so I will only add that the bill poster was mistaken in the nature of his paste , and greatly undervalued its adhesive properties . 
You may have noted the fact that it is a person's virtues as often as his vices that make him difficult to live with . 
This being her view of the case , it is unnecessary to state that he went on driving the stage . 
Do you wear a flannel shirt , Jerry ? asked Pel Frost once . 
I don' know , he replied , ask Mis' Todd she keeps the books . 
, like all other animiles , has to be trained up before they're real good comp'ny . 
You have to begin with 'em early , and begin as you mean to hold out . 
When they once git in the habit of takin' the bit in their teeth and runnin' , it's too late for you to hold 'em in . 
Jerry had never done anything he wanted to since he had married her , and he hadn't really wanted to do that . 
, and this may have been the reason for her jealousy . 
Pelatiah , otherwise Pel Frost , knew more about the matter than most other folks , because he had unlimited time to devote to general culture . 
Though not yet thirty years old , he was the laziest man in York County . 
Pel was a general favorite in half a dozen villages , where he was the life of the loafers' bench . 
An energetic loafer can attend properly to one bench , but it takes genius as well as assiduity to do justice to six of them . 
His habits were decidedly convivial , and he spent a good deal of time at the general musters , drinking and carousing with the other ne'er do weels . 
Report said that she was a stranger who had appeared at the post office in a wagon driven by a small , freckled boy . 
, but this one rides up in front part o' the way , so I thought mebbe Jerry 'd find out something 'bout her . 
She's han'some as a picture , but she must have a good strong back to make the trip down 'n' up in one day . 
Nothing could have been more effective or more effectual than this blow dealt with consummate skill . 
Having thus driven the iron into Mrs. Todd's soul , Pel entertained his mother with an account of the interview while she chopped the kindling wood . 
Jerry was a man and a brother , and petticoat government must be discouraged whenever and wherever possible , or the world would soon cease to be a safe place to live in . 
Pel's idea grew upon him in the night watches , and the next morning he searched his mother's garret till he found a green dress and a white bonnet . 
It was easy enough to cram the things back into the basket , jump out , and call a cordial thank you to the unsuspecting Jerry . 
As a matter of fact she was equal to it . 
But Mrs. Todd did not stir from her house , although he was confident she had seen my lady green sleeves from her post at the window . 
The last idea was always the most captivating to Pel , and he departed serenely for a stay of several days without so much luggage as a hairbrush . 
He had ample time for reflection , for it was a hot day , and though he drove slowly , the horses were sweating at every pore . 
Pel Frost , then , must have overheard his wife's storm of reproaches , perhaps even her threats of violence . 
It had come to this , that he was the village laughing stock , a butt of ridicule at the store and tavern . 
Now , two years before this , Jerry Todd had for the first and only time in his married life put his foot down . 
Mrs. Todd had insisted on making him a suit of clothes much against his wishes . 
When finished she put them on him almost by main force , though his plaintive appeals would have melted any but a Stover of Scarboro heart . 
The stuff was a large plaid , the elbows and knees came in the wrong places , the seat was lined with enameled cloth , and the sleeves cut him in the armholes . 
The joke of the matter was , that , all unknown to himself , he had absolutely frightened Mrs. Todd . 
I shall have to put down my foot agin , he said to himself on the eventful morning when Pel presented him with the basket . 
Dern my luck , I've got to do it agin , when I ain't hardly got over the other time . 
So , after an hour's plotting and planning , he made some purchases in Biddeford and started on his return trip . 
It had seen its best days , Jerry thought , and so had he , for that matter . 
Yet he had been called a likely feller when he married the Widder Bixby , or rather when she married him . 
Well , the mischief was done all that remained was to save a remnant of his self respect , and make an occasional dash for liberty . 
He finally turned into the back nippin' road from Bonny Eagle to Limington , and when he was within forty rods of his own house he stopped to water his horses . 
If he feared a scene he had good reason , for as the horses climbed the crest of the long hill the lady in green was by his side on the box . 
This done , he put on the brake and headed his horses toward the fence . 
Jerry gave one terror stricken look , wound his reins round the whipstock , and , leaping from his seat , disappeared behind a convenient tree . 
There was no lack of courage here at least . 
To blast the fatal beauty that had captivated her wedded husband was the Widder Bixby's idea , and the broom descended . 
Jerry stayed behind the tree for some minutes , and when the coast was clear he mounted the seat and drove to the store and the stable . 
I can't stand many more of these times when I put my foot down , he thought , they're too weakening ! But he need not have feared . 
There was a good supper under the mosquito netting on the table , and , most unusual luxury , a pot of hot tea . 
It was a simple remedy to outward appearances , but made his declining years more comfortable . 
On page , reentered is spelled with diaeresis over the second e . 
On pages the verses beginning respectively Rebel mourner and This gro o oanin' world are accompanied with staves of music in the treble clef . 
