Chapter I As the streets that lead from the Strand to the Embankment are very narrow , it is better not to walk down them arm in arm . 
If you persist , lawyers' clerks will have to make flying leaps into the mud young lady typists will have to fidget behind you . 
One afternoon in the beginning of October when the traffic was becoming brisk a tall man strode along the edge of the pavement with a lady on his arm . 
Angry glances struck upon their backs . 
But some enchantment had put both man and woman beyond the reach of malice and unpopularity . 
It was only by scorning all she met that she kept herself from tears , and the friction of people brushing past her was evidently painful . 
After watching the traffic on the Embankment for a minute or two with a stoical gaze she twitched her husband's sleeve , and they crossed between the swift discharge of motor cars . 
With their sharp eye for eccentricity , they were inclined to think Mr. Ambrose awful but the quickest witted cried Bluebeard ! as he passed . 
Although Mrs. Ambrose stood quite still , much longer than is natural , the little boys let her be . 
It is always worth while to look down and see what is happening . 
The straw and the patch swam again and again behind the tremulous medium of a great welling tear , and the tear rose and fell and dropped into the river . 
Yes , she knew she must go back to all that , but at present she must weep . 
Screening her face she sobbed more steadily than she had yet done , her shoulders rising and falling with great regularity . 
It was this figure that her husband saw when , having reached the polished Sphinx , having entangled himself with a man selling picture postcards , he turned the stanza instantly stopped . 
He came up to her , laid his hand on her shoulder , and said , Dearest . 
But she shut her face away from him , as much as to say , You can't possibly understand . 
As he did not leave her , however , she had to wipe her eyes , and to raise them to the level of the factory chimneys on the other bank . 
She saw also the arches of Waterloo Bridge and the carts moving across them , like the line of animals in a shooting gallery . 
They were seen blankly , but to see anything was of course to end her weeping and begin to walk . 
I would rather walk , she said , her husband having hailed a cab already occupied by two city men . 
The fixity of her mood was broken by the action of walking . 
Somewhere up there above the pinnacles where the smoke rose in a pointed hill , her children were now asking for her , and getting a soothing reply . 
Already , though there was sunlight in the haze , tattered old men and women were nodding off to sleep upon the seats . 
When one gave up seeing the beauty that clothed things , this was the skeleton beneath . 
Moreover , her husband walking with a quick rhythmic stride , jerking his free hand occasionally , was either a Viking or a stricken Nelson the sea gulls had changed his note . 
Ridley , shall we drive ? Shall we drive , Ridley ? Mrs. Ambrose had to speak sharply by this time he was far away . 
The cab , by trotting steadily along the same road , soon withdrew them from the West End , and plunged them into London . 
It appeared to her a very small bit of work for such an enormous factory to have made . 
For some reason it appeared to her as a small golden tassel on the edge of a vast black cloak . 
Lord , how gloomy it is ! her husband groaned . 
Poor creatures ! What with the misery for her children , the poor , and the rain , her mind was like a wound exposed to dry in the air . 
At this point the cab stopped , for it was in danger of being crushed like an egg shell . 
The wide Embankment which had had room for cannonballs and squadrons , had now shrunk to a cobbled lane steaming with smells of malt and oil and blocked by waggons . 
While her husband read the placards pasted on the brick announcing the hours at which certain ships would sail for Scotland , Mrs. Ambrose did her best to find information . 
From a world exclusively occupied in feeding waggons with sacks , half obliterated too in a fine yellow fog , they got neither help nor attention . 
The open rowing boat in which they sat bobbed and curtseyed across the line of traffic . 
He seemed to recall an age when his boat , moored among rushes , carried delicate feet across to lawns at Rotherhithe . 
They want bridges now , he said , indicating the monstrous outline of the Tower Bridge . 
Mournfully Helen regarded him , who was putting water between her and her children . 
Mournfully she gazed at the ship they were approaching anchored in the middle of the stream they could dimly read her name Euphrosyne . 
Very dimly in the falling dusk they could see the lines of the rigging , the masts and the dark flag which the breeze blew out squarely behind . 
Down in the saloon of her father's ship , Miss Rachel Vinrace , aged twenty four , stood waiting her uncle and aunt nervously . 
She was already unnaturally braced to receive them . 
As she spoke the last words the woman stood in the doorway . 
Tall , large eyed , draped in purple shawls , Mrs. Ambrose was romantic and beautiful not perhaps sympathetic , for her eyes looked straight and considered what they saw . 
Her face was much warmer than a Greek face on the other hand it was much bolder than the face of the usual pretty Englishwoman . 
Oh , Rachel , how d'you do , she said , shaking hands . 
How are you , dear , said Mr. Ambrose , inclining his forehead to be kissed . 
His niece instinctively liked his thin angular body , and the big head with its sweeping features , and the acute , innocent eyes . 
Tell Mr. Pepper , Rachel bade the servant . 
Husband and wife then sat down on one side of the table , with their niece opposite to them . 
My father told me to begin , she explained . 
He is very busy with the men . 
You know Mr. Pepper ? A little man who was bent as some trees are by a gale on one side of them had slipped in . 
Nodding to Mr. Ambrose , he shook hands with Helen . 
Draughts , he said , erecting the collar of his coat . 
You are still rheumatic ? asked Helen . 
Her voice was low and seductive , though she spoke absently enough , the sight of town and river being still present to her mind . 
Once rheumatic , always rheumatic , I fear , he replied . 
To some extent it depends on the weather , though not so much as people are apt to think . 
One does not die of it , at any rate , said Helen . 
As a general rule no , said Mr. Pepper . 
Soup , Uncle Ridley ? asked Rachel . 
Thank you , dear , he said , and , as he held his plate out , sighed audibly , Ah ! she's not like her mother . 
Helen was just too late in thumping her tumbler on the table to prevent Rachel from hearing , and from blushing scarlet with embarrassment . 
The way servants treat flowers ! she said hastily . 
You knew Jenkinson , didn't you , Ambrose ? asked Mr. Pepper across the table . 
Jenkinson of Peterhouse ? He's dead , said Mr. Pepper . 
Ah , dear ! I knew him ages ago , said Ridley . 
He was the hero of the punt accident , you remember ? A queer card . 
Married a young woman out of a tobacconist's , and lived in the Fens never heard what became of him . 
Drink drugs , said Mr. Pepper with sinister conciseness . 
Hopeless muddle , I'm told . 
The man had really great abilities , said Ridley . 
His introduction to Jellaby holds its own still , went on Mr. Pepper , which is surprising , seeing how text books change . 
There was a theory about the planets , wasn't there ? asked Ridley . 
A screw loose somewhere , no doubt of it , said Mr. Pepper , shaking his head . 
Now a tremor ran through the table , and a light outside swerved . 
At the same time an electric bell rang sharply again and again . 
We're off , said Ridley . 
A slight but perceptible wave seemed to roll beneath the floor then it sank then another came , more perceptible . 
Lights slid right across the uncurtained window . 
The ship gave a loud melancholy moan . 
We're off ! said Mr. Pepper . 
Other ships , as sad as she , answered her outside on the river . 
The chuckling and hissing of water could be plainly heard , and the ship heaved so that the steward bringing plates had to balance himself as he drew the curtain . 
Jenkinson of Cats d'you still keep up with him ? asked Ambrose . 
As much as one ever does , said Mr. Pepper . 
This year he has had the misfortune to lose his wife , which made it painful , of course . 
Very painful , Ridley agreed . 
There's an unmarried daughter who keeps house for him , I believe , but it's never the same , not at his age . 
Both gentlemen nodded sagely as they carved their apples . 
There was a book , wasn't there ? Ridley enquired . 
There was a book , but there never will be a book , said Mr. Pepper with such fierceness that both ladies looked up at him . 
There never will be a book , because some one else has written it for him , said Mr. Pepper with considerable acidity . 
That's what comes of putting things off , and collecting fossils , and sticking Norman arches on one's pigsties . 
I confess I sympathise , said Ridley with a melancholy sigh . 
I have a weakness for people who can't begin . 
The accumulations of a lifetime wasted , continued Mr. pepper . 
He had accumulations enough to fill a barn . 
It's a vice that some of us escape , said Ridley . 
Our friend Miles has another work out to day . 
Mr. Pepper gave an acid little laugh . 
Yes , the old Master's saying of him has been pretty well realised , said Ridley . 
A way they had , said Mr. Pepper . 
You know the Bruce collection ? not for publication , of course . 
I should suppose not , said Ridley significantly . 
For a Divine he was remarkably free . 
The Pump in Neville's Row , for example ? enquired Mr. Pepper . 
Only it struck Helen that Rachel was perhaps too still for a hostess , and that she might have done something with her hands . 
Perhaps ? she said at length , upon which they rose and left , vaguely to the surprise of the gentlemen , who had either thought them attentive or had forgotten their presence . 
Ah , one could tell strange stories of the old days , they heard Ridley say , as he sank into his chair again . 
Glancing back , at the doorway , they saw Mr. Pepper as though he had suddenly loosened his clothes , and had become a vivacious and malicious old ape . 
Winding veils round their heads , the women walked on deck . 
They were now moving steadily down the river , passing the dark shapes of ships at anchor , and London was a swarm of lights with a pale yellow canopy drooping above it . 
There were the lights of the great theatres , the lights of the long streets , lights that indicated huge squares of domestic comfort , lights that hung high in air . 
No darkness would ever settle upon those lamps , as no darkness had settled upon them for hundreds of years . 
From the deck of the ship the great city appeared a crouched and cowardly figure , a sedentary miser . 
Leaning over the rail , side by side , Helen said , Won't you be cold ? Rachel replied , No. . 
How beautiful ! she added a moment later . 
Very little was visible a few masts , a shadow of land here , a line of brilliant windows there . 
They tried to make head against the wind . 
It blows it blows ! gasped Rachel , the words rammed down her throat . 
Struggling by her side , Helen was suddenly overcome by the spirit of movement , and pushed along with her skirts wrapping themselves round her knees , and both arms to her hair . 
But slowly the intoxication of movement died down , and the wind became rough and chilly . 
The ghost of a roar of laughter came out to them , and was drowned at once in the wind . 
In the dry yellow lighted room Mr. Pepper and Mr. Ambrose were oblivious of all tumult they were in Cambridge , and it was probably about the year . 
They're old friends , said Helen , smiling at the sight . 
Now , is there a room for us to sit in ? Rachel opened a door . 
It's more like a landing than a room , she said . 
Indeed it had nothing of the shut stationary character of a room on shore . 
A table was rooted in the middle , and seats were stuck to the sides . 
Twisted shells with red lips like unicorn's horns ornamented the mantelpiece , which was draped by a pall of purple plush from which depended a certain number of balls . 
It's odd that every one should be an old friend of Mr. Pepper's , Rachel started nervously , for the situation was difficult , the room cold , and Helen curiously silent . 
I suppose you take him for granted ? said her aunt . 
He's like this , said Rachel , lighting on a fossilised fish in a basin , and displaying it . 
I expect you're too severe , Helen remarked . 
Rachel immediately tried to qualify what she had said against her belief . 
I don't really know him , she said , and took refuge in facts , believing that elderly people really like them better than feelings . 
She produced what she knew of William Pepper . 
He was here either to get things out of the sea , or to write upon the probable course of Odysseus , for Greek after all was his hobby . 
I've got all his pamphlets , she said . 
It did not appear that she had read them . 
Has he ever been in love ? asked Helen , who had chosen a seat . 
This was unexpectedly to the point . 
His heart's a piece of old shoe leather , Rachel declared , dropping the fish . 
But when questioned she had to own that she had never asked him . 
I shall ask him , said Helen . 
The last time I saw you , you were buying a piano , she continued . 
I heard from Aunt Bessie not long ago , Helen stated . 
She is afraid that you will spoil your arms if you insist upon so much practising . 
The muscles of the forearm and then one won't marry ? She didn't put it quite like that , replied Mrs. Ambrose . 
Oh , no of course she wouldn't , said Rachel with a sigh . 
Moreover , a hesitation in speaking , or rather a tendency to use the wrong words , made her seem more than normally incompetent for her years . 
Women of her own age usually boring her , she supposed that girls would be worse . 
She glanced at Rachel again . 
There was nothing to take hold of in girls nothing hard , permanent , satisfactory . 
Did Willoughby say three weeks , or did he say four ? She tried to remember . 
It is a great pleasure that you have come , he said , for both of us . 
Rachel murmured in obedience to her father's glance . 
We'll do our best to make you comfortable . 
We think it an honour to have charge of him . 
Pepper'll have some one to contradict him which I daren't do . 
You think she does us credit ? he asked . 
Oh yes , said Helen . 
Because we expect great things of her , he continued , squeezing his daughter's arm and releasing her . 
They sat down side by side on the little sofa . 
Did you leave the children well ? They'll be ready for school , I suppose . 
Everybody said that her boy was like her and her girl like Ridley . 
And you had to show the young rascal that these tricks wouldn't do , eh ? A child of six ? I don't think they matter . 
I'm an old fashioned father . 
Nonsense , Willoughby Rachel knows better . 
Leave it to me leave it to me ! said Willoughby , obviously intending to do much more than she asked of him . 
But Ridley and Mr. Pepper were heard fumbling at the door . 
Willoughby preserved his heartiness , tempered by respect . 
For the moment nothing was said . 
We looked in and saw you laughing , Helen remarked . 
Mr. Pepper had just told a very good story . 
None of the stories were good , said her husband peevishly . 
Still a severe judge , Ridley ? enquired Mr. Vinrace . 
We bored you so that you left , said Ridley , speaking directly to his wife . 
The situation was now one of considerable discomfort for every one concerned , as was proved by a long interval of constraint and silence . 
From all this Helen drew her own conclusions , which were gloomy enough . 
Pepper was a bore Rachel was an unlicked girl , no doubt prolific of confidences , the very first of which would be You see , I don't get on with my father . 
Willoughby , as usual , loved his business and built his Empire , and between them all she would be considerably bored . 
Being a woman of action , however , she rose , and said that for her part she was going to bed . 
At the door she glanced back instinctively at Rachel , expecting that as two of the same sex they would leave the room together . 
Rachel rose , looked vaguely into Helen's face , and remarked with her slight stammer , I'm going out to t t triumph in the wind . 
The voyage had begun , and had begun happily with a soft blue sky , and a calm sea . 
The table was cheerful with apples and bread and eggs . 
Helen handed Willoughby the butter , and as she did so cast her eye on him and reflected , And she married you , and she was happy , I suppose . 
For example , he seldom spoke of the dead , but kept anniversaries with singular pomp . 
She suspected him of nameless atrocities with regard to his daughter , as indeed she had always suspected him of bullying his wife . 
Ridley was a scholar , and Willoughby was a man of business . 
Ridley was bringing out the third volume of Pindar when Willoughby was launching his first ship . 
They built a new factory the very year the commentary on Aristotle was it ? appeared at the University Press . 
She was like her mother , as the image in a pool on a still summer's day is like the vivid flushed face that hangs over it . 
Meanwhile Helen herself was under examination , though not from either of her victims . 
Mr. Pepper considered her and his meditations , carried on while he cut his toast into bars and neatly buttered them , took him through a considerable stretch of autobiography . 
One of his penetrating glances assured him that he was right last night in judging that Helen was beautiful . 
Blandly he passed her the jam . 
He went on saying No to her , on principle , for he never yielded to a woman on account of her sex . 
And here , dropping his eyes to his plate , he became autobiographical . 
He had not married himself for the sufficient reason that he had never met a woman who commanded his respect . 
As it was he had contracted habits of which he was not in the least ashamed . 
So concluding he looked up suddenly and smiled . 
Beauty has no effect upon uric acid that I'm aware of , he sighed , contemplating the round pane opposite , through which the sky and sea showed blue . 
At the same time he took a little parchment volume from his pocket and laid it on the table . 
As it was clear that he invited comment , Helen asked him the name of it . 
She got the name but she got also a disquisition upon the proper method of making roads . 
Pebbles ! he concluded , viciously dropping another bread pellet upon the heap . 
The roads of England are mended with pebbles ! 'With the first heavy rainfall , I've told 'em , 'your road will be a swamp . 
Again and again my words have proved true . 
I have had servants , said Mrs. Ambrose , concentrating her gaze . 
At this moment I have a nurse . 
She's a good woman as they go , but she's determined to make my children pray . 
But Willoughby , whose discomfort as he listened was manifested by a slight movement rocking of his body , said awkwardly , Oh , surely , Helen , a little religion hurts nobody . 
In a second they heard her calling back , Oh , look ! We're out at sea ! They followed her on to the deck . 
All the smoke and the houses had disappeared , and the ship was out in a wide space of sea very fresh and clear though pale in the early light . 
They had left London sitting on its mud . 
A very thin line of shadow tapered on the horizon , scarcely thick enough to stand the burden of Paris , which nevertheless rested upon it . 
They were free of roads , free of mankind , and the same exhilaration at their freedom ran through them all . 
The ship was making her way steadily through small waves which slapped her and then fizzled like effervescing water , leaving a little border of bubbles and foam on either side . 
The colourless October sky above was thinly clouded as if by the trail of wood fire smoke , and the air was wonderfully salt and brisk . 
Indeed it was too cold to stand still . 
They went a few paces and Rachel saw them kiss . 
Down she looked into the depth of the sea . 
Until one , he repeated . 
Rachel laughed , too , as indeed she had laughed ever since she could remember , without thinking it funny , but because she admired her father . 
How ever we're to get through this voyage , Miss Rachel , I really can't tell , she began with a shake of her head . 
There's only just sheets enough to go round , and the master's has a rotten place you could put your fingers through . 
Did you notice the counterpanes ? I thought to myself a poor person would have been ashamed of them . 
The one I gave Mr. Pepper was hardly fit to cover a dog . 
No , Miss Rachel , they could not be mended they're only fit for dust sheets . 
Why , if one sewed one's finger to the bone , one would have one's work undone the next time they went to the laundry . 
Her voice in its indignation wavered as if tears were near . 
There was nothing for it but to descend and inspect a large pile of linen heaped upon a table . 
Mrs. Chailey handled the sheets as if she knew each by name , character , and constitution . 
Mrs. Chailey folded her sheets , but her expression testified to flatness within . 
The world no longer cared about her , and a ship was not a home . 
When the lamps were lit yesterday , and the sailors went tumbling above her head , she had cried she would cry this evening she would cry to morrow . 
Meanwhile she arranged her ornaments in the room which she had won too easily . 
Tears obliterated the words and the head of the nail . 
I'm in a fix , said Mrs. Ambrose , who was flushed and out of breath . 
You know what gentlemen are . 
The chairs too high the tables too low there's six inches between the floor and the door . 
It's as though they'd taken pains to torment me ! he cried , stopping dead . 
Did I come on this voyage in order to catch rheumatism and pneumonia ? Really one might have credited Vinrace with more sense . 
To come at all was the height of folly , but now that we are here I suppose that I can face it like a man . 
Out of the way , Ridley , and in half an hour you'll find it ready . 
She turned him out of the room , and they could hear him groaning and swearing as he went along the passage . 
I daresay he isn't very strong , said Mrs. Chailey , looking at Mrs. Ambrose compassionately , as she helped to shift and carry . 
It's books , sighed Helen , lifting an armful of sad volumes from the floor to the shelf . 
Greek from morning to night . 
If ever Miss Rachel marries , Chailey , pray that she may marry a man who doesn't know his ABC . 
October was well advanced , but steadily burning with a warmth that made the early months of the summer appear very young and capricious . 
Under that illumination even the roofs of the great towns glittered . 
Some said that the sky was an emblem of the life to come . 
Long tailed birds clattered and screamed , and crossed from wood to wood , with golden eyes in their plumage . 
But while all this went on by land , very few people thought about the sea . 
The people in ships , however , took an equally singular view of England . 
Not only did it appear to them to be an island , and a very small island , but it was a shrinking island in which people were imprisoned . 
Finally , when the ship was out of sight of land , it became plain that the people of England were completely mute . 
She was more lonely than the caravan crossing the desert she was infinitely more mysterious , moving by her own power and sustained by her own resources . 
The sea might give her death or some unexampled joy , and none would know of it . 
Indeed if they had not been blessed in their weather , one blue day being bowled up after another , smooth , round , and flawless . 
Mrs. Ambrose would have found it very dull . 
As it was , she had her embroidery frame set up on deck , with a little table by her side on which lay open a black volume of philosophy . 
She chose a thread from the vari coloured tangle that lay in her lap , and sewed red into the bark of a tree , or yellow into the river torrent . 
Between the stitches she looked to one side and read a sentence about the Reality of Matter , or the Nature of Good . 
Round her men in blue jerseys knelt and scrubbed the boards , or leant over the rails and whistled , and not far off Mr. Pepper sat cutting up roots with a penknife . 
They had scarcely spoken two words to each other since that first evening they were polite when they met , but there had been no confidence of any kind . 
At that moment Rachel was sitting in her room doing absolutely nothing . 
When the ship was full this apartment bore some magnificent title and was the resort of elderly sea sick ladies who left the deck to their youngsters . 
But there was no subject in the world which she knew accurately . 
But this system of education had one great advantage . 
It did not teach anything , but it put no obstacle in the way of any real talent that the pupil might chance to have . 
Rachel , being musical , was allowed to learn nothing but music she became a fanatic about music . 
All the energies that might have gone into languages , science , or literature , that might have made her friends , or shown her the world , poured straight into music . 
Finding her teachers inadequate , she had practically taught herself . 
If this one definite gift was surrounded by dreams and ideas of the most extravagant and foolish description , no one was any the wiser . 
Her education being thus ordinary , her circumstances were no more out of the common . 
She was an only child and had never been bullied and laughed at by brothers and sisters . 
Until quite lately she had been completely ignorant that for women such things existed . 
But lying in her chair , with one hand behind her head , the other grasping the knob on the arm , she was clearly following her thoughts intently . 
Her education left her abundant time for thinking . 
Her eyes were fixed so steadily upon a ball on the rail of the ship that she would have been startled and annoyed if anything had chanced to obscure it for a second . 
Seems it so senseless what I say ? She cried that it did , and threw down the book . 
She saw her Aunt Lucy arranging flowers in the drawing room . 
Aunt Lucy , she volunteered , I don't like the smell of broom it reminds me of funerals . 
Nonsense , Rachel , Aunt Lucy replied don't say such foolish things , dear . 
I always think it a particularly cheerful plant . 
Lying in the hot sun her mind was fixed upon the characters of her aunts , their views , and the way they lived . 
Indeed this was a subject that lasted her hundreds of morning walks round Richmond Park , and blotted out the trees and the people and the deer . 
Why did they do the things they did , and what did they feel , and what was it all about ? Again she heard Aunt Lucy talking to Aunt Eleanor . 
I can't say I've ever thought 'how , said Miss Vinrace . 
If one cares one doesn't think 'how , Rachel , which was aimed at the niece who had never yet come to her aunts as cordially as they wished . 
Her efforts to come to an understanding had only hurt her aunt's feelings , and the conclusion must be that it is better not to try . 
To feel anything strongly was to create an abyss between oneself and others who feel strongly perhaps but differently . 
It was far better to play the piano and forget all the rest . 
The conclusion was very welcome . 
It appeared that nobody ever said a thing they meant , or ever talked of a feeling they felt , but that was what music was for . 
Absorbed by her music she accepted her lot very complacently , blazing into indignation perhaps once a fortnight , and subsiding as she subsided now . 
, even with the spirit of poor William Cowper there at Olney . 
Like a ball of thistledown it kissed the sea , rose , kissed it again , and thus rising and kissing passed finally out of sight . 
The rising and falling of the ball of thistledown was represented by the sudden droop forward of her own head , and when it passed out of sight she was asleep . 
Ten minutes later Mrs. Ambrose opened the door and looked at her . 
It did not surprise her to find that this was the way in which Rachel passed her mornings . 
She glanced round the room at the piano , at the books , at the general mess . 
Mrs. Ambrose stood thinking for at least two minutes . 
She then smiled , turned noiselessly away and went , lest the sleeper should waken , and there should be the awkwardness of speech between them . 
They had dropped anchor in the mouth of the Tagus , and instead of cleaving new waves perpetually , the same waves kept returning and washing against the sides of the ship . 
At about that hour he reappeared , carrying his case , professing himself tired , bothered , hungry , thirsty , cold , and in immediate need of his tea . 
Here he began searching in his pockets and eventually discovered a card , which he planked down on the table before Rachel . 
On it she read , Mr. and Mrs. Richard Dalloway , Browne Street , Mayfair . 
They got round poor little Jackson anyhow . 
, and so there's nothing for it but to submit , I suppose . 
But it was evident that for some reason or other Willoughby was quite pleased to submit , although he made a show of growling . 
The truth was that Mr. and Mrs. Dalloway had found themselves stranded in Lisbon . 
They had been travelling on the Continent for some weeks , chiefly with a view to broadening Mr. Dalloway's mind . 
For that purpose the Latin countries did very well , although the East , of course , would have done better . 
Expect to hear of me next in Petersburg or Teheran , he had said , turning to wave farewell from the steps of the Travellers' . 
But a disease had broken out in the East , there was cholera in Russia , and he was heard of , not so romantically , in Lisbon . 
They had been through France he had stopped at manufacturing centres where , producing letters of introduction , he had been shown over works , and noted facts in a pocket book . 
In Spain he and Mrs. Dalloway had mounted mules , for they wished to understand how the peasants live . 
Are they ripe for rebellion , for example ? Mrs. Dalloway had then insisted upon a day or two at Madrid with the pictures . 
Finally they arrived in Lisbon and spent six days which , in a journal privately issued afterwards , they described as of unique interest . 
Richard had audiences with ministers , and foretold a crisis at no distant date , the foundations of government being incurably corrupt . 
Yet how blame , etc . 
while Clarissa inspected the royal stables , and took several snapshots showing men now exiled and windows now broken . 
Their tour was thoroughly unconventional , and followed no meditated plan . 
The foreign correspondents of the Times decided their route as much as anything else . 
Mr. Dalloway wished to look at certain guns , and was of opinion that the African coast is far more unsettled than people at home were inclined to believe . 
Meanwhile they found themselves stranded in Lisbon , unable for the moment to lay hands upon the precise vessel they wanted . 
By special arrangement , however , were words of high encouragement to them , for they came of a class where almost everything was specially arranged , or could be if necessary . 
Momentary though it seemed , nevertheless the interruption was upsetting every one was more or less put out by it , from Mr. Grice , the steward , to Ridley himself . 
A few minutes later Rachel passed the smoking room , and found Helen moving arm chairs . 
She was absorbed in her arrangements , and on seeing Rachel remarked confidentially If one can give men a room to themselves where they will sit , it's all to the good . 
Arm chairs are the important things She began wheeling them about . 
Now , does it still look like a bar at a railway station ? She whipped a plush cover off a table . 
The appearance of the place was marvellously improved . 
However , punctuality had been impressed on her , and whatever face she had , she must go in to dinner . 
These few minutes had been used by Willoughby in sketching to the Dalloways the people they were to meet , and checking them upon his fingers . 
, his wife , my old friend Pepper , a very quiet fellow , but knows everything , I'm told . 
We're a very small party . 
I'm dropping them on the coast . 
Mrs. Dalloway , with her head a little on one side , did her best to recollect Ambrose was it a surname ? but failed . 
She was made slightly uneasy by what she had heard . 
Mr. Pepper had not troubled to change his neat ugly suit . 
But after all , Clarissa thought to herself as she followed Vinrace in to dinner , every one's interesting really . 
An imperceptible signal passed between husband and wife , meaning that they grasped the situation and would stand by each other loyally . 
With scarcely a pause Mrs. Dalloway turned to Willoughby and began What I find so tiresome about the sea is that there are no flowers in it . 
Not a bit of it . 
I've always remembered his answer . 
Sedgius aquatici , he said , which I take to be a kind of duck weed . 
She turned to Helen with an air of profundity . 
I'm convinced people are wrong when they say it's work that wears one it's responsibility . 
That's why one pays one's cook more than one's housemaid , I suppose . 
According to that , one ought to pay one's nurse double but one doesn't , said Helen . 
No but think what a joy to have to do with babies , instead of saucepans ! said Mrs. Dalloway , looking with more interest at Helen , a probable mother . 
I'd much rather be a cook than a nurse , said Helen . 
Nothing would induce me to take charge of children . 
Mothers always exaggerate , said Ridley . 
A well bred child is no responsibility . 
I've travelled all over Europe with mine . 
You just wrap 'em up warm and put 'em in the rack . 
Mrs. Dalloway exclaimed , looking at Ridley How like a father ! My husband's just the same . 
And then one talks of the equality of the sexes ! Does one ? said Mr. Pepper . 
Oh , some do ! cried Clarissa . 
My husband had to pass an irate lady every afternoon last session who said nothing else , I imagine . 
She sat outside the house it was very awkward , said Dalloway . 
At last I plucked up courage and said to her , 'My good creature , you're only in the way where you are . 
You're hindering me , and you're doing no good to yourself . 
And then she caught him by the coat , and would have scratched his eyes out Mrs. Dalloway put in . 
Pooh that's been exaggerated , said Richard . 
No , I pity them , I confess . 
The discomfort of sitting on those steps must be awful . 
Serve them right , said Willoughby curtly . 
Oh , I'm entirely with you there , said Dalloway . 
The solemnity of her husband's assertion made Clarissa grave . 
It's unthinkable , she said . 
Don't tell me you're a suffragist ? she turned to Ridley . 
I don't care a fig one way or t'other , said Ambrose . 
If any creature is so deluded as to think that a vote does him or her any good , let him have it . 
You're not a politician , I see , she smiled . 
Goodness , no , said Ridley . 
I'm afraid your husband won't approve of me , said Dalloway aside , to Mrs. Ambrose . 
She suddenly recollected that he had been in Parliament . 
Don't you ever find it rather dull ? she asked , not knowing exactly what to say . 
Richard spread his hands before him , as if inscriptions were to be read in the palms of them . 
The Bar or politics , I agree , said Willoughby . 
You get more run for your money . 
All one's faculties have their play , said Richard . 
Now , I shouldn't like to think that any one had to make allowances for me . 
I don't quite agree , Richard , said Mrs. Dalloway . 
I feel that there's almost everything one wants in 'Adonais . 
Read 'Adonais' by all means , Richard conceded . 
But whenever I hear of Shelley I repeat to myself the words of Matthew Arnold , 'What a set ! What a set ! This roused Ridley's attention . 
Matthew Arnold ? A detestable prig ! he snapped . 
A prig granted , said Richard but , I think a man of the world . 
That's where my point comes in . 
a gross commonplace set of people but we see both sides we may be clumsy , but we do our best to get a grasp of things . 
Now your artists find things in a mess , shrug their shoulders , turn aside to their visions which I grant may be very beautiful and leave things in a mess . 
Now that seems to me evading one's responsibilities . 
Besides , we aren't all born with the artistic faculty . 
It's dreadful , said Mrs. Dalloway , who , while her husband spoke , had been thinking . 
I should like to stop all the painting and writing and music until this kind of thing exists no longer . 
Don't you feel , she wound up , addressing Helen , that life's a perpetual conflict ? Helen considered for a moment . 
I don't think I do . 
There was a pause , which was decidedly uncomfortable . 
Mrs. Dalloway then gave a little shiver , and asked whether she might have her fur cloak brought to her . 
As she adjusted the soft brown fur about her neck a fresh topic struck her . 
I own , she said , that I shall never forget the Antigone . 
I saw it at Cambridge years ago , and it's haunted me ever since . 
Don't you think it's quite the most modern thing you ever saw ? she asked Ridley . 
It seemed to me I'd known twenty Clytemnestras . 
Old Lady Ditchling for one . 
Mrs. Dalloway looked at him with compressed lips . 
I'd give ten years of my life to know Greek , she said , when he had done . 
I could teach you the alphabet in half an hour , said Ridley , and you'd read Homer in a month . 
I should think it an honour to instruct you . 
Clarissa exclaimed that she could think of nothing more delightful . 
For an instant she saw herself in her drawing room in Browne Street with a Plato open on her knees Plato in the original Greek . 
She could not help believing that a real scholar , if specially interested , could slip Greek into her head with scarcely any trouble . 
Ridley engaged her to come to morrow . 
If only your ship is going to treat us kindly ! she exclaimed , drawing Willoughby into play . 
For the sake of guests , and these were distinguished , Willoughby was ready with a bow of his head to vouch for the good behaviour even of the waves . 
I'm dreadfully bad and my husband's not very good , sighed Clarissa . 
I am never sick , Richard explained . 
At least , I have only been actually sick once , he corrected himself . 
That was crossing the Channel . 
But a choppy sea , I confess , or still worse , a swell , makes me distinctly uncomfortable . 
The great thing is never to miss a meal . 
They were pushing back their chairs . 
The ladies were hesitating at the doorway . 
I'd better show the way , said Helen , advancing . 
She had taken no part in the talk no one had spoken to her but she had listened to every word that was said . 
She had looked from Mrs. Dalloway to Mr. Dalloway , and from Mr. Dalloway back again . 
Clarissa , indeed , was a fascinating spectacle . 
She wore a white dress and a long glittering necklace . 
What with her clothes , and her arch delicate face , which showed exquisitely pink beneath hair turning grey , she was astonishingly like an eighteenth century masterpiece a Reynolds or a Romney . 
She made Helen and the others look coarse and slovenly beside her . 
Sitting lightly upright she seemed to be dealing with the world as she chose the enormous solid globe spun round this way and that beneath her fingers . 
And her husband ! Mr. Dalloway rolling that rich deliberate voice was even more impressive . 
We sit in here , said Helen , opening the door of the saloon . 
You play ? said Mrs. Dalloway to Mrs. Ambrose , taking up the score of Tristan which lay on the table . 
My niece does , said Helen , laying her hand on Rachel's shoulder . 
Oh , how I envy you ! Clarissa addressed Rachel for the first time . 
D'you remember this ? Isn't it divine ? She played a bar or two with ringed fingers upon the page . 
And then Tristan goes like this , and Isolde oh ! it's all too thrilling ! Have you been to Bayreuth ? No , I haven't , said Rachel . 
Then that's still to come . 
It's like nothing else in the world ! But where's your piano ? It's in another room , Rachel explained . 
But you will play to us ? Clarissa entreated . 
Too great a strain ? asked Helen . 
Too emotional , somehow , said Clarissa . 
One notices it at once when a boy or girl takes up music as a profession . 
Sir William Broadley told me just the same thing . 
Don't you hate the kind of attitudes people go into over Wagner like this She cast her eyes to the ceiling , clasped her hands , and assumed a look of intensity . 
It really doesn't mean that they appreciate him in fact , I always think it's the other way round . 
The people who really care about an art are always the least affected . 
D'you know Henry Philips , the painter ? she asked . 
I have seen him , said Helen . 
To look at , one might think he was a successful stockbroker , and not one of the greatest painters of the age . 
There are a great many successful stockbrokers , if you like looking at them , said Helen . 
Rachel wished vehemently that her aunt would not be so perverse . 
When you see a musician with long hair , don't you know instinctively that he's bad ? Clarissa asked , turning to Rachel . 
Watts and Joachim they looked just like you and me . 
And how much nicer they'd have looked with curls ! said Helen . 
There's something one knows a gentleman by , said Clarissa , but one can't say what it is . 
Take my husband now , does he look like a gentleman ? The question seemed to Clarissa in extraordinarily bad taste . 
One of the things that can't be said , she would have put it . 
She could find no answer , but a laugh . 
Well , anyhow , she said , turning to Rachel , I shall insist upon your playing to me to morrow . 
There was that in her manner that made Rachel love her . 
Mrs. Dalloway hid a tiny yawn , a mere dilation of the nostrils . 
D'you know , she said , I'm extraordinarily sleepy . 
I think I shall escape . 
A man's voice , which she took to be that of Mr. Pepper , strident in discussion , and advancing upon the saloon , gave her the alarm . 
Good night good night ! she said . 
Oh , I know my way do pray for calm ! Good night ! Her yawn must have been the image of a yawn . 
Already this cramped little cabin was the dressing room of a lady of quality . 
There were bottles containing liquids there were trays , boxes , brushes , pins . 
Evidently not an inch of her person lacked its proper instrument . 
The scent which had intoxicated Rachel pervaded the air . 
Thus established , Mrs. Dalloway began to write . 
It's not the ship , so much as the people . 
One does come across queer sorts as one travels . 
I must say I find it hugely amusing . 
There's the manager of the line called Vinrace a nice big Englishman , doesn't say much you know the sort . 
As for the rest they might have come trailing out of an old number of Punch . 
They're like people playing croquet in the 'sixties . 
It's what I've always said about literary people they're far the hardest of any to get on with . 
, and the woman has quite a fine face , only she dresses , of course , in a potato sack , and wears her hair like a Liberty shopgirl's . 
They talk about art , and think us such poops for dressing in the evening . 
However , I can't help that I'd rather die than come in to dinner without changing wouldn't you ? It matters ever so much more than the soup . 
Then there's a nice shy girl poor thing I wish one could rake her out before it's too late . 
She has quite nice eyes and hair , only , of course , she'll get funny too . 
We ought to start a society for broadening the minds of the young much more useful than missionaries , Hester ! Oh , I'd forgotten there's a dreadful little thing called Pepper . 
He's just like his name . 
He's indescribably insignificant , and rather queer in his temper , poor dear . 
It's like sitting down to dinner with an ill conditioned fox terrier , only one can't comb him out , and sprinkle him with powder , as one would one's dog . 
It's a pity , sometimes , one can't treat people like dogs ! The great comfort is that we're away from newspapers , so that Richard will have a real holiday this time . 
You coward ! said Richard , almost filling the room with his sturdy figure . 
I did my duty at dinner ! cried Clarissa . 
You've let yourself in for the Greek alphabet , anyhow . 
Oh , my dear ! Who is Ambrose ? I gather that he was a Cambridge don lives in London now , and edits classics . 
I see I shall have quite a lot to say to Vinrace , said Richard . 
He knows Sutton and all that set . 
He can tell me a good deal about the conditions of ship building in the North . 
The men always are so much better than the women . 
One always has something to say to a man certainly , said Richard . 
But I've no doubt you'll chatter away fast enough about the babies , Clarice . 
Has she got children ? She doesn't look like it somehow . 
A pang of envy shot through Mrs. Dalloway's heart . 
We must have a son , Dick , she said . 
Good Lord , what opportunities there are now for young men ! said Dalloway , for his talk had set him thinking . 
I don't suppose there's been so good an opening since the days of Pitt . 
And it's yours ! said Clarissa . 
To be a leader of men , Richard soliloquised . 
My God what a career ! The chest slowly curved beneath his waistcoat . 
D'you know , Dick , I can't help thinking of England , said his wife meditatively , leaning her head against his chest . 
Being on this ship seems to make it so much more vivid what it really means to be English . 
It's what one means by London . 
It's the continuity , said Richard sententiously . 
A vision of English history , King following King , Prime Minister Prime Minister , and Law Law had come over him while his wife spoke . 
It's taken a long time , but we've pretty nearly done it , he said it remains to consolidate . 
And these people don't see it ! Clarissa exclaimed . 
It takes all sorts to make a world , said her husband . 
There would never be a government if there weren't an opposition . 
Dick , you're better than I am , said Clarissa . 
You see round , where I only see there . 
She pressed a point on the back of his hand . 
That's my business , as I tried to explain at dinner . 
What I like about you , Dick , she continued , is that you're always the same , and I'm a creature of moods . 
You're a pretty creature , anyhow , he said , gazing at her with deeper eyes . 
You think so , do you ? Then kiss me . 
He kissed her passionately , so that her half written letter slid to the ground . 
Picking it up , he read it without asking leave . 
to make the trip perfectly enjoyable as it promises to be instructive . 
Voices were heard at the end of the corridor . 
Mrs. Ambrose was speaking low William Pepper was remarking in his definite and rather acid voice , That is the type of lady with whom I find myself distinctly out of sympathy . 
She But neither Richard nor Clarissa profited by the verdict , for directly it seemed likely that they would overhear , Richard crackled a sheet of paper . 
It makes one so dependent . 
I suppose I feel for him what my mother and women of her generation felt for Christ . 
It just shows that one can't do without something . 
Then , thinking of the black sea outside tossing beneath the moon , she shuddered , and thought of her husband and the others as companions on the voyage . 
The dreams were not confined to her indeed , but went from one brain to another . 
Chapter IV Next morning Clarissa was up before anyone else . 
What does any man or woman brought up in England know about the sea ? They profess to know but they don't . 
The bitterness with which he spoke was ominous of what was to come . 
Mr. Grice recalled dreadful sights which he had seen in the richest city of the world men and women standing in line hour after hour to receive a mug of greasy soup . 
And I thought of the good flesh down here waiting and asking to be caught . 
I'm not exactly a Protestant , and I'm not a Catholic , but I could almost pray for the days of popery to come again because of the fasts . 
As he talked he kept opening drawers and moving little glass jars . 
They have swum about among bones , Clarissa sighed . 
Clarissa was so glad to hear him say so . 
Which is your favourite play ? I wonder if it's the same as mine ? Henry the Fifth , said Mr. Grice . 
It is ! Hamlet was what you might call too introspective for Mr. Grice , the sonnets too passionate Henry the Fifth was to him the model of an English gentleman . 
But his favourite reading was Huxley , Herbert Spencer , and Henry George while Emerson and Thomas Hardy he read for relaxation . 
I've had the most interesting talk of my life ! she exclaimed , taking her seat beside Willoughby . 
D'you realise that one of your men is a philosopher and a poet ? A very interesting fellow that's what I always say , said Willoughby , distinguishing Mr. Grice . 
Though Rachel finds him a bore . 
He's a bore when he talks about currents , said Rachel . 
Her eyes were full of sleep , but Mrs. Dalloway still seemed to her wonderful . 
I've never met a bore yet ! said Clarissa . 
And I should say the world was full of them ! exclaimed Helen . 
But her beauty , which was radiant in the morning light , took the contrariness from her words . 
I agree that it's the worst one can possibly say of any one , said Clarissa . 
How much rather one would be a murderer than a bore ! she added , with her usual air of saying something profound . 
One can fancy liking a murderer . 
It's the same with dogs . 
Some dogs are awful bores , poor dears . 
It happened that Richard was sitting next to Rachel . 
We had a dog who was a bore and knew it , he said , addressing her in cool , easy tones . 
He was a Skye terrier , one of those long chaps , with little feet poking out from their hair like like caterpillars no , like sofas I should say . 
Well , we had another dog at the same time , a black brisk animal a Schipperke , I think , you call them . 
You can't imagine a greater contrast . 
I liked the Skye best , I must confess . 
There was something pathetic about him . 
The story seemed to have no climax . 
What happened to him ? Rachel asked . 
That's a very sad story , said Richard , lowering his voice and peeling an apple . 
He followed my wife in the car one day and got run over by a brute of a cyclist . 
Was he killed ? asked Rachel . 
But Clarissa at her end of the table had overheard . 
Don't talk of it ! she cried . 
It's a thing I can't bear to think of to this day . 
Surely the tears stood in her eyes ? That's the painful thing about pets , said Mr. Dalloway they die . 
The first sorrow I can remember was for the death of a dormouse . 
I regret to say that I sat upon it . 
Still , that didn't make one any the less sorry . 
Here lies the duck that Samuel Johnson sat on , eh ? I was big for my age . 
Then we had canaries , he continued , a pair of ring doves , a lemur , and at one time a martin . 
Did you live in the country ? Rachel asked him . 
We lived in the country for six months of the year . 
When I say 'we' I mean four sisters , a brother , and myself . 
There's nothing like coming of a large family . 
Dick , you were horribly spoilt ! cried Clarissa across the table . 
Rachel had other questions on the tip of her tongue or rather one enormous question , which she did not in the least know how to put into words . 
The talk appeared too airy to admit of it . 
That was what she wanted to say . 
He had drawn apart one little chink and showed astonishing treasures . 
It seemed to her incredible that a man like that should be willing to talk to her . 
He had sisters and pets , and once lived in the country . 
She stirred her tea round and round the bubbles which swam and clustered in the cup seemed to her like the union of their minds . 
However , breakfast was over and Mrs. Dalloway was rising . 
I always think religion's like collecting beetles , she said , summing up the discussion as she went up the stairs with Helen . 
One person has a passion for black beetles another hasn't it's no good arguing about it . 
What's your black beetle now ? I suppose it's my children , said Helen . 
Ah that's different , Clarissa breathed . 
You have a boy , haven't you ? Isn't it detestable , leaving them ? It was as though a blue shadow had fallen across a pool . 
Their eyes became deeper , and their voices more cordial . 
She slammed the door of her room , and pulled out her music . 
It was all old music Bach and Beethoven , Mozart and Purcell the pages yellow , the engraving rough to the finger . 
In three minutes she was deep in a very difficult , very classical fugue in A , and over her face came a queer remote impersonal expression of complete absorption and anxious satisfaction . 
The shape of the Bach fugue crashed to the ground . 
Don't let me interrupt , Clarissa implored . 
I heard you playing , and I couldn't resist . 
I adore Bach ! Rachel flushed and fumbled her fingers in her lap . 
It's too difficult , she said . 
But you were playing quite splendidly ! I ought to have stayed outside . 
She slid Cowper's Letters and Wuthering Heights out of the arm chair , so that Clarissa was invited to sit there . 
What a dear little room ! she said , looking round . 
Oh , Cowper's Letters ! I've never read them . 
Are they nice ? Rather dull , said Rachel . 
He wrote awfully well , didn't he ? said Clarissa if one likes that kind of thing finished his sentences and all that . 
Wuthering Heights ! Ah that's more in my line . 
I really couldn't exist without the Brontes ! Don't you love them ? Still , on the whole , I'd rather live without them than without Jane Austen . 
Lightly and at random though she spoke , her manner conveyed an extraordinary degree of sympathy and desire to befriend . 
Jane Austen ? I don't like Jane Austen , said Rachel . 
You monster ! Clarissa exclaimed . 
I can only just forgive you . 
Tell me why ? She's so so well , so like a tight plait , Rachel floundered . 
Ah I see what you mean . 
And you won't when you're older . 
At your age I only liked Shelley . 
I can remember sobbing over him in the garden . 
How divine ! and yet what nonsense ! She looked lightly round the room . 
I always think it's living , not dying , that counts . 
But I don't expect you to agree with me ! She pressed Rachel's shoulder . 
Um m m she went on quoting Unrest which men miscall delight when you're my age you'll see that the world is crammed with delightful things . 
I think young people make such a mistake about that not letting themselves be happy . 
I sometimes think that happiness is the only thing that counts . 
She glanced round as much as to say , not only a few stuffy books and Bach . 
I long to ask questions , she continued . 
You interest me so much . 
If I'm impertinent , you must just box my ears . 
And I I want to ask questions , said Rachel with such earnestness that Mrs. Dalloway had to check her smile . 
D'you mind if we walk ? she said . 
She snuffed it like a racehorse as they shut the door and stood on deck . 
Isn't it good to be alive ? she exclaimed , and drew Rachel's arm within hers . 
Look , look ! How exquisite ! The shores of Portugal were beginning to lose their substance but the land was still the land , though at a great distance . 
They could distinguish the little towns that were sprinkled in the folds of the hills , and the smoke rising faintly . 
The towns appeared to be very small in comparison with the great purple mountains behind them . 
Honestly , though , said Clarissa , having looked , I don't like views . 
How odd it is ! she continued impulsively . 
This time yesterday we'd never met . 
I was packing in a stuffy little room in the hotel . 
Richmond ? You see , my aunts like the Park . 
And you don't ! I understand ! Clarissa laughed . 
I like walking in the Park alone but not with the dogs , she finished . 
No and some people are dogs aren't they ? said Clarissa , as if she had guessed a secret . 
But not every one oh no , not every one . 
Not every one , said Rachel , and stopped . 
I can quite imagine you walking alone , said Clarissa and thinking in a little world of your own . 
But how you will enjoy it some day ! I shall enjoy walking with a man is that what you mean ? said Rachel , regarding Mrs. Dalloway with her large enquiring eyes . 
I wasn't thinking of a man particularly , said Clarissa . 
No. I shall never marry , Rachel determined . 
I shouldn't be so sure of that , said Clarissa . 
Her sidelong glance told Rachel that she found her attractive although she was inexplicably amused . 
Why do people marry ? Rachel asked . 
That's what you're going to find out , Clarissa laughed . 
There's nothing like it , she concluded . 
Do tell me about the Ambroses . 
Or am I asking too many questions ? I find you easy to talk to , said Rachel . 
The short sketch of the Ambroses was , however , somewhat perfunctory , and contained little but the fact that Mr. Ambrose was her uncle . 
Your mother's brother ? When a name has dropped out of use , the lightest touch upon it tells . 
Mrs. Dalloway went on Are you like your mother ? No she was different , said Rachel . 
She was overcome by an intense desire to tell Mrs. Dalloway things she had never told any one things she had not realised herself until this moment . 
I am lonely , she began . 
I want She did not know what she wanted , so that she could not finish the sentence but her lip quivered . 
But it seemed that Mrs. Dalloway was able to understand without words . 
I know , she said , actually putting one arm round Rachel's shoulder . 
When I was your age I wanted too . 
No one understood until I met Richard . 
He gave me all I wanted . 
He's man and woman as well . 
Her eyes rested upon Mr. Dalloway , leaning upon the rail , still talking . 
Don't think I say that because I'm his wife I see his faults more clearly than I see any one else's . 
What one wants in the person one lives with is that they should keep one at one's best . 
I often wonder what I've done to be so happy ! she exclaimed , and a tear slid down her cheek . 
Here Helen passed them , and seeing Rachel arm in arm with a comparative stranger , looking excited , was amused , but at the same time slightly irritated . 
But they were immediately joined by Richard , who had enjoyed a very interesting talk with Willoughby and was in a sociable mood . 
Observe my Panama , he said , touching the brim of his hat . 
Therefore I am going to sit down . 
I advise you to follow my example . 
Three chairs in a row invited them to be seated . 
Leaning back , Richard surveyed the waves . 
That's a very pretty blue , he said . 
But there's a little too much of it . 
Variety is essential to a view . 
Thus , if you have hills you ought to have a river if a river , hills . 
in that case you have also the advantage of associations the Past . 
D'you want to talk , Dick , or shall I read aloud ? Clarissa had fetched a book with the rugs . 
Persuasion , announced Richard , examining the volume . 
That's for Miss Vinrace , said Clarissa . 
She can't bear our beloved Jane . 
That if I may say so is because you have not read her , said Richard . 
She is incomparably the greatest female writer we possess . 
She is the greatest , he continued , and for this reason she does not attempt to write like a man . 
Every other woman does on that account , I don't read 'em . 
Produce your instances , Miss Vinrace , he went on , joining his finger tips . 
I'm ready to be converted . 
He waited , while Rachel vainly tried to vindicate her sex from the slight he put upon it . 
I'm afraid he's right , said Clarissa . 
She does write well , doesn't she ? 'There She read on in a light humorous voice . 
She was determined that Sir Walter should take her husband's mind off the guns of Britain , and divert him in an exquisite , quaint , sprightly , and slightly ridiculous world . 
After a time it appeared that the sun was sinking in that world , and the points becoming softer . 
Rachel looked up to see what caused the change . 
Richard's eyelids were closing and opening opening and closing . 
A loud nasal breath announced that he no longer considered appearances , that he was sound asleep . 
Triumph ! Clarissa whispered at the end of a sentence . 
Suddenly she raised her hand in protest . 
A sailor hesitated she gave the book to Rachel , and stepped lightly to take the message Mr. Grice wished to know if it was convenient , etc . 
Ridley , who had prowled unheeded , started forward , stopped , and , with a gesture of disgust , strode off to his study . 
The sleeping politician was left in Rachel's charge . 
She read a sentence , and took a look at him . 
You can then best judge the age and state of the coat . 
She looked him all over until it seemed to her that he must protest . 
He was a man of forty perhaps and here there were lines round his eyes , and there curious clefts in his cheeks . 
Slightly battered he appeared , but dogged and in the prime of life . 
Sisters and a dormouse and some canaries , Rachel murmured , never taking her eyes off him . 
I wonder , I wonder she ceased , her chin upon her hand , still looking at him . 
A bell chimed behind them , and Richard raised his head . 
Then he opened his eyes which wore for a second the queer look of a shortsighted person's whose spectacles are lost . 
It took him a moment to recover from the impropriety of having snored , and possibly grunted , before a young lady . 
To wake and find oneself left alone with one was also slightly disconcerting . 
I suppose I've been dozing , he said . 
What's happened to everyone ? Clarissa ? Mrs. Dalloway has gone to look at Mr. Grice's fish , Rachel replied . 
I might have guessed , said Richard . 
And how have you improved the shining hour ? Have you become a convert ? I don't think I've read a line , said Rachel . 
That's what I always find . 
There are too many things to look at . 
I find nature very stimulating myself . 
My best ideas have come to me out of doors . 
When you were walking ? Walking riding yachting I suppose the most momentous conversations of my life took place while perambulating the great court at Trinity . 
I was at both universities . 
It was a fad of my father's . 
He thought it broadening to the mind . 
I think I agree with him . 
I can remember what an age ago it seems ! settling the basis of a future state with the present Secretary for India . 
We thought ourselves very wise . 
I'm not sure we weren't . 
We were happy , Miss Vinrace , and we were young gifts which make for wisdom . 
Have you done what you said you'd do ? she asked . 
He looked resolutely at a sea gull , as though his ideal flew on the wings of the bird . 
But , said Rachel , what is your ideal ? There you ask too much , Miss Vinrace , said Richard playfully . 
She could only say that she wanted to know , and Richard was sufficiently amused to answer . 
Well , how shall I reply ? In one word Unity . 
Unity of aim , of dominion , of progress . 
The dispersion of the best ideas over the greatest area . 
The English ? I grant that the English seem , on the whole , whiter than most men , their records cleaner . 
But , good Lord , don't run away with the idea that I don't see the drawbacks horrors unmentionable things done in our very midst ! I'm under no illusions . 
Few people , I suppose , have fewer illusions than I have . 
Have you ever been in a factory , Miss Vinrace ! No , I suppose not I may say I hope not . 
As for Rachel , she had scarcely walked through a poor street , and always under the escort of father , maid , or aunts . 
I was going to say that if you'd ever seen the kind of thing that's going on round you , you'd understand what it is that makes me and men like me politicians . 
You asked me a moment ago whether I'd done what I set out to do . 
She liked Richard Dalloway , and warmed as he warmed . 
He seemed to mean what he said . 
I know nothing ! she exclaimed . 
It's far better that you should know nothing , he said paternally , and you wrong yourself , I'm sure . 
You play very nicely , I'm told , and I've no doubt you've read heaps of learned books . 
Elderly banter would no longer check her . 
You talk of unity , she said . 
You ought to make me understand . 
I never allow my wife to talk politics , he said seriously . 
It is impossible for human beings , constituted as they are , both to fight and to have ideals . 
She gives me courage to go on . 
The strain of public life is very great , he added . 
This made him appear a battered martyr , parting every day with some of the finest gold , in the service of mankind . 
I can't think , Rachel exclaimed , how any one does it ! Explain , Miss Vinrace , said Richard . 
This is a matter I want to clear up . 
His kindness was genuine , and she determined to take the chance he gave her , although to talk to a man of such worth and authority made her heart beat . 
It seems to me like this , she began , doing her best first to recollect and then to expose her shivering private visions . 
There's an old widow in her room , somewhere , let us suppose in the suburbs of Leeds . 
Richard bent his head to show that he accepted the widow . 
In London you're spending your life , talking , writing things , getting bills through , missing what seems natural . 
The result of it all is that she goes to her cupboard and finds a little more tea , a few lumps of sugar , or a little less tea and a newspaper . 
Widows all over the country I admit do this . 
Still , there's the mind of the widow the affections those you leave untouched . 
But you waste you own . 
If the widow goes to her cupboard and finds it bare , Richard answered , her spiritual outlook we may admit will be affected . 
Imagination , Miss Vinrace use your imagination that's where you young Liberals fail . 
Conceive the world as a whole . 
I can conceive no more exalted aim to be the citizen of the Empire . 
serve only to connect some obscure parts of the mechanism , concealed from the public eye . 
Yet if the meanest screw fails in its task , the proper working of the whole is imperilled . 
The attempt at communication had been a failure . 
We don't seem to understand each other , she said . 
Shall I say something that will make you very angry ? he replied . 
It won't , said Rachel . 
Well , then no woman has what I may call the political instinct . 
You have very great virtues I am the first , I hope , to admit that but I have never met a woman who even saw what is meant by statesmanship . 
I am going to make you still more angry . 
I hope that I never shall meet such a woman . 
Now , Miss Vinrace , are we enemies for life ? Vanity , irritation , and a thrusting desire to be understood , urged her to make another attempt . 
I understand you to mean that the whole of modern society is based upon cooperative effort . 
If only more people would realise that , Miss Vinrace , there would be fewer of your old widows in solitary lodgings ! Rachel considered . 
Are you a Liberal or are you a Conservative ? she asked . 
I call myself a Conservative for convenience sake , said Richard , smiling . 
But there is more in common between the two parties than people generally allow . 
Did you say you lived in the country when you were a child ? she asked . 
Crude as her manners seemed to him , Richard was flattered . 
There could be no doubt that her interest was genuine . 
I did , he smiled . 
And what happened ? she asked . 
Or do I ask too many questions ? I'm flattered , I assure you . 
But let me see what happened ? Well , riding , lessons , sisters . 
There was an enchanted rubbish heap , I remember , where all kinds of queer things happened . 
Odd , what things impress children ! I can remember the look of the place to this day . 
It's a fallacy to think that children are happy . 
I've never suffered so much as I did when I was a child . 
I didn't get on well with my father , said Richard shortly . 
He was a very able man , but hard . 
Well it makes one determined not to sin in that way oneself . 
They forgive heaps of things grown up people mind but that sin is the unpardonable sin . 
Mind you I daresay I was a difficult child to manage but when I think what I was ready to give ! No , I was more sinned against than sinning . 
And then I went to school , where I did very fairly well and and then , as I say , my father sent me to both universities . 
I don't think so , she said . 
It's the way of saying things , isn't it , not the things ? True , said Richard . 
love ! Upon that word he lowered his voice it was a word that seemed to unveil the skies for Rachel . 
It's an odd thing to say to a young lady , he continued . 
But have you any idea what what I mean by that ? No , of course not . 
I don't use the word in a conventional sense . 
I use it as young men use it . 
Girls are kept very ignorant , aren't they ? Perhaps it's wise perhaps You don't know ? He spoke as if he had lost consciousness of what he was saying . 
No I don't , she said , scarcely speaking above her breath . 
Warships , Dick ! Over there ! Look ! Clarissa , released from Mr. Grice , appreciative of all his seaweeds , skimmed towards them , gesticulating . 
She had sighted two sinister grey vessels , low in the water , and bald as bone , one closely following the other with the look of eyeless beasts seeking their prey . 
Consciousness returned to Richard instantly . 
By George ! he exclaimed , and stood shielding his eyes . 
Ours , Dick ? said Clarissa . 
The Mediterranean Fleet , he answered . 
The Euphrosyne was slowly dipping her flag . 
Convulsively Clarissa squeezed Rachel's hand . 
Aren't you glad to be English ! she said . 
The warships drew past , casting a curious effect of discipline and sadness upon the waters , and it was not until they were again invisible that people spoke to each other naturally . 
At lunch the talk was all of valour and death , and the magnificent qualities of British admirals . 
Clarissa quoted one poet , Willoughby quoted another . 
Life on board a man of war was splendid , so they agreed , and sailors , whenever one met them , were quite especially nice and simple . 
But Helen was really wondering why Rachel , sitting silent , looked so queer and flushed . 
Even at tea the floor rose beneath their feet and pitched too low again , and at dinner the ship seemed to groan and strain as though a lash were descending . 
She who had been a broad backed dray horse , upon whose hind quarters pierrots might waltz , became a colt in a field . 
The plates slanted away from the knives , and Mrs. Dalloway's face blanched for a second as she helped herself and saw the potatoes roll this way and that . 
Willoughby , of course , extolled the virtues of his ship , and quoted what had been said of her by experts and distinguished passengers , for he loved his own possessions . 
Still , dinner was uneasy , and directly the ladies were alone Clarissa owned that she would be better off in bed , and went , smiling bravely . 
Next morning the storm was on them , and no politeness could ignore it . 
Mrs. Dalloway stayed in her room . 
Richard faced three meals , eating valiantly at each but at the third , certain glazed asparagus swimming in oil finally conquered him . 
That beats me , he said , and withdrew . 
Now we are alone once more , remarked William Pepper , looking round the table but no one was ready to engage him in talk , and the meal ended in silence . 
On the following day they met but as flying leaves meet in the air . 
Sick they were not but the wind propelled them hastily into rooms , violently downstairs . 
They passed each other gasping on deck they shouted across tables . 
They wore fur coats and Helen was never seen without a bandanna on her head . 
For comfort they retreated to their cabins , where with tightly wedged feet they let the ship bounce and tumble . 
Their sensations were the sensations of potatoes in a sack on a galloping horse . 
The world outside was merely a violent grey tumult . 
For two days they had a perfect rest from their old emotions . 
Helen , on the other hand , staggered to Mrs. Dalloway's door , knocked , could not be heard for the slamming of doors and the battering of wind , and entered . 
There were basins , of course . 
Mrs. Dalloway lay half raised on a pillow , and did not open her eyes . 
Then she murmured , Oh , Dick , is that you ? Helen shouted for she was thrown against the washstand How are you ? Clarissa opened one eye . 
It gave her an incredibly dissipated appearance . 
Her lips were white inside . 
Planting her feet wide , Helen contrived to pour champagne into a tumbler with a tooth brush in it . 
There's a tooth brush in it , murmured Clarissa , and smiled it might have been the contortion of one weeping . 
Disgusting , she whispered , indicating the basins . 
Relics of humour still played over her face like moonshine . 
Want more ? Helen shouted . 
Speech was again beyond Clarissa's reach . 
The wind laid the ship shivering on her side . 
Pale agonies crossed Mrs. Dalloway in waves . 
When the curtains flapped , grey lights puffed across her . 
Between the spasms of the storm , Helen made the curtain fast , shook the pillows , stretched the bed clothes , and smoothed the hot nostrils and forehead with cold scent . 
You are good ! Clarissa gasped . 
Horrid mess ! She was trying to apologise for white underclothes fallen and scattered on the floor . 
For one second she opened a single eye , and saw that the room was tidy . 
That's nice , she gasped . 
Helen left her far , far away she knew that she felt a kind of liking for Mrs. Dalloway . 
She could not help respecting her spirit and her desire , even in the throes of sickness , for a tidy bedroom . 
Her petticoats , however , rose above her knees . 
Quite suddenly the storm relaxed its grasp . 
It happened at tea the expected paroxysm of the blast gave out just as it reached its climax and dwindled away , and the ship instead of taking the usual plunge went steadily . 
The monotonous order of plunging and rising , roaring and relaxing , was interfered with , and every one at table looked up and felt something loosen within them . 
The strain was slackened and human feelings began to peep again , as they do when daylight shows at the end of a tunnel . 
Try a turn with me , Ridley called across to Rachel . 
Foolish ! cried Helen , but they went stumbling up the ladder . 
Choked by the wind their spirits rose with a rush , for on the skirts of all the grey tumult was a misty spot of gold . 
Instantly the world dropped into shape they were no longer atoms flying in the void , but people riding a triumphant ship on the back of the sea . 
Having scrambled twice round the ship and received many sound cuffs from the wind , they saw a sailor's face positively shine golden . 
They looked , and beheld a complete yellow circle of sun next minute it was traversed by sailing stands of cloud , and then completely hidden . 
Richard and Clarissa , however , still remained on the borderland . 
She did not attempt to sit up her husband stood on his feet , contemplated his waistcoat and trousers , shook his head , and then lay down again . 
The inside of his brain was still rising and falling like the sea on the stage . 
At four o'clock he woke from sleep and saw the sunlight make a vivid angle across the red plush curtains and the grey tweed trousers . 
The ordinary world outside slid into his mind , and by the time he was dressed he was an English gentleman again . 
He stood beside his wife . 
She pulled him down to her by the lapel of his coat , kissed him , and held him fast for a minute . 
Go and get a breath of air , Dick , she said . 
You look quite washed out . 
How nice you smell ! . 
And be polite to that woman . 
She was so kind to me . 
Thereupon Mrs. Dalloway turned to the cool side of her pillow , terribly flattened but still invincible . 
Richard found Helen talking to her brother in law , over two dishes of yellow cake and smooth bread and butter . 
You look very ill ! she exclaimed on seeing him . 
Come and have some tea . 
He remarked that the hands that moved about the cups were beautiful . 
I hear you've been very good to my wife , he said . 
She's had an awful time of it . 
You came in and fed her with champagne . 
Were you among the saved yourself ? I ? Oh , I haven't been sick for twenty years sea sick , I mean . 
There are three stages of convalescence , I always say , broke in the hearty voice of Willoughby . 
The milk stage , the bread and butter stage , and the roast beef stage . 
I should say you were at the bread and butter stage . 
He handed him the plate . 
What a splendid fellow he is ! said Richard . 
Yes , said Helen , he's always been like that . 
This is a great undertaking of his , Richard continued . 
It's a business that won't stop with ships , I should say . 
We shall see him in Parliament , or I'm much mistaken . 
He's the kind of man we want in Parliament the man who has done things . 
But Helen was not much interested in her brother in law . 
I expect your head's aching , isn't it ? she asked , pouring a fresh cup . 
Well , it is , said Richard . 
It's humiliating to find what a slave one is to one's body in this world . 
D'you know , I can never work without a kettle on the hob . 
As often as not I don't drink tea , but I must feel that I can if I want to . 
That's very bad for you , said Helen . 
It shortens one's life but I'm afraid , Mrs. Ambrose , we politicians must make up our minds to that at the outset . 
We've got to burn the candle at both ends , or You've cooked your goose ! said Helen brightly . 
We can't make you take us seriously , Mrs. Ambrose , he protested . 
Metaphysics and fishing ! he exclaimed . 
If I had to live again I believe I should devote myself to one or the other . 
He began turning the pages . 
'Good , then , is indefinable , he read out . 
How jolly to think that's going on still ! 'So far as I know there is only one ethical writer , Professor Henry Sidgwick , who has clearly recognised and stated this fact . 
That's just the kind of thing we used to talk about when we were boys . 
Whether we ever came to any conclusion that's another matter . 
Still , it's the arguing that counts . 
It's things like that that stand out in life . 
Nothing's been quite so vivid since . 
It's the philosophers , it's the scholars , he continued , they're the people who pass the torch , who keep the light burning by which we live . 
Being a politician doesn't necessarily blind one to that , Mrs. Ambrose . 
No. Why should it ? said Helen . 
But can you remember if your wife takes sugar ? She lifted the tray and went off with it to Mrs. Dalloway . 
Richard twisted a muffler twice round his throat and struggled up on deck . 
His body , which had grown white and tender in a dark room , tingled all over in the fresh air . 
He felt himself a man undoubtedly in the prime of life . 
Pride glowed in his eye as he let the wind buffet him and stood firm . 
With his head slightly lowered he sheered round corners , strode uphill , and met the blast . 
For a second he could not see what the body was he had run into . 
It was Rachel who apologised . 
They both laughed , too much blown about to speak . 
She drove open the door of her room and stepped into its calm . 
In order to speak to her , it was necessary that Richard should follow . 
They stood in a whirlpool of wind papers began flying round in circles , the door crashed to , and they tumbled , laughing , into chairs . 
My word ! What a tempest ! he exclaimed . 
Fine , isn't it ? said Rachel . 
Certainly the struggle and wind had given her a decision she lacked red was in her cheeks , and her hair was down . 
Oh , what fun ! he cried . 
What am I sitting on ? Is this your room ? How jolly ! There sit there , she commanded . 
How jolly to meet again , said Richard . 
Is this where you meditate on the world , and then come out and pose poor politicians with questions ? In the intervals of sea sickness I've thought a lot of our talk . 
I assure you , you made me think . 
Have you ever read Burke ? Burke ? she repeated . 
Who was Burke ? No ? Well , then I shall make a point of sending you a copy . 
The Speech on the French Revolution The American Rebellion ? Which shall it be , I wonder ? He noted something in his pocket book . 
And then you must write and tell me what you think of it . 
This reticence this isolation that's what's the matter with modern life ! Now , tell me about yourself . 
What are your interests and occupations ? I should imagine that you were a person with very strong interests . 
I know I know , said Richard , throwing his head back , and drawing his fingers across his eyes . 
How strange to be a woman ! A young and beautiful woman , he continued sententiously , has the whole world at her feet . 
That's true , Miss Vinrace . 
You have an inestimable power for good or for evil . 
What couldn't you do he broke off . 
You have beauty , he said . 
Richard took her in his arms and kissed her . 
Holding her tight , he kissed her passionately , so that she felt the hardness of his body and the roughness of his cheek printed upon hers . 
She fell back in her chair , with tremendous beats of the heart , each of which sent black waves across her eyes . 
He clasped his forehead in his hands . 
You tempt me , he said . 
The tone of his voice was terrifying . 
He seemed choked in fright . 
Rachel stood up and went . 
Her head was cold , her knees shaking , and the physical pain of the emotion was so great that she could only keep herself moving above the great leaps of her heart . 
She leant upon the rail of the ship , and gradually ceased to feel , for a chill of body and mind crept over her . 
Far out between the waves little black and white sea birds were riding . 
Rising and falling with smooth and graceful movements in the hollows of the waves they seemed singularly detached and unconcerned . 
You're peaceful , she said . 
She became peaceful too , at the same time possessed with a strange exultation . 
Life seemed to hold infinite possibilities she had never guessed at . 
Nevertheless something wonderful had happened . 
Richard slid his eyes over her uneasily once , and never looked at her again . 
Formal platitudes were manufactured with effort , but Willoughby was kindled . 
Beef for Mr. Dalloway ! he shouted . 
After dinner , sitting alone with Rachel under the great swinging lamp , Helen was struck by her pallor . 
It once more occurred to her that there was something strange in the girl's behaviour . 
Are you tired ? she asked . 
Not tired , said Rachel . 
Oh , yes , I suppose I am tired . 
Helen advised bed , and she went , not seeing Richard again . 
She must have been very tired for she fell asleep at once , but after an hour or two of dreamless sleep , she dreamt . 
She dreamt that she was walking down a long tunnel , which grew so narrow by degrees that she could touch the damp bricks on either side . 
His face was pitted and like the face of an animal . 
The wall behind him oozed with damp , which collected into drops and slid down . 
She felt herself pursued , so that she got up and actually locked her door . 
A voice moaned for her eyes desired her . 
All night long barbarian men harassed the ship they came scuffling down the passages , and stopped to snuffle at her door . 
She could not sleep again . 
Chapter VI That's the tragedy of life as I always say ! said Mrs. Dalloway . 
Beginning things and having to end them . 
Still , I'm not going to let this end , if you're willing . 
It was the morning , the sea was calm , and the ship once again was anchored not far from another shore . 
D'you suppose we shall ever meet in London ? said Ridley ironically . 
You'll have forgotten all about me by the time you step out there . 
He pointed to the shore of the little bay , where they could now see the separate trees with moving branches . 
How horrid you are ! she laughed . 
Rachel's coming to see me anyhow the instant you get back , she said , pressing Rachel's arm . 
Now you've no excuse ! With a silver pencil she wrote her name and address on the flyleaf of Persuasion , and gave the book to Rachel . 
Sailors were shouldering the luggage , and people were beginning to congregate . 
There were Captain Cobbold , Mr. Grice , Willoughby , Helen , and an obscure grateful man in a blue jersey . 
Oh , it's time , said Clarissa . 
I do like you , she murmured as she kissed Rachel . 
The boat separating from the vessel made off towards the land , and for some minutes Helen , Ridley , and Rachel leant over the rail , watching . 
Once Mrs. Dalloway turned and waved but the boat steadily grew smaller and smaller until it ceased to rise and fall , and nothing could be seen save two resolute backs . 
Well , that's over , said Ridley after a long silence . 
We shall never see them again , he added , turning to go to his books . 
For so , too , would they be forgotten . 
Rachel's obvious languor and listlessness made her an easy prey , and indeed Helen had devised a kind of trap . 
Her mind was absorbed by Richard by the extreme strangeness of what had happened , and by a thousand feelings of which she had not been conscious before . 
She made scarcely any attempt to listen to what Helen was saying , as Helen indulged in commonplaces to begin with . 
While Mrs. Ambrose arranged her embroidery , sucked her silk , and threaded her needle , she lay back gazing at the horizon . 
Did you like those people ? Helen asked her casually . 
Yes , she replied blankly . 
You talked to him , didn't you ? She said nothing for a minute . 
He kissed me , she said without any change of tone . 
Helen started , looked at her , but could not make out what she felt . 
M m m'yes , she said , after a pause . 
I thought he was that kind of man . 
What kind of man ? said Rachel . 
I like him , said Rachel . 
So you really didn't mind ? For the first time since Helen had known her Rachel's eyes lit up brightly . 
I did mind , she said vehemently . 
Tell me what happened , said Helen . 
She had to keep her lips from twitching as she listened to Rachel's story . 
It was poured out abruptly with great seriousness and no sense of humour . 
He told me what he had done for the poor somewhere . 
I asked him all sorts of questions . 
He told me about his own life . 
The day before yesterday , after the storm , he came in to see me . 
It happened then , quite suddenly . 
As she spoke she grew flushed . 
I was a good deal excited , she continued . 
But I didn't mind till afterwards when she paused , and saw the figure of the bloated little man again I became terrified . 
From the look in her eyes it was evident she was again terrified . 
Helen was really at a loss what to say . 
From the little she knew of Rachel's upbringing she supposed that she had been kept entirely ignorant as to the relations of men with women . 
With a shyness which she felt with women and not with men she did not like to explain simply what these are . 
Therefore she took the other course and belittled the whole affair . 
Oh , well , she said , He was a silly creature , and if I were you , I'd think no more about it . 
No , said Rachel , sitting bolt upright , I shan't do that . 
I shall think about it all day and all night until I find out exactly what it does mean . 
Don't you ever read ? Helen asked tentatively . 
Cowper's Letters that kind of thing . 
Father gets them for me or my Aunts . 
She had good reason to fear that Rachel had made herself incredibly ridiculous . 
You don't know many men ? she asked . 
Mr. Pepper , said Rachel ironically . 
So no one's ever wanted to marry you ? No , she answered ingenuously . 
Helen reflected that as , from what she had said , Rachel certainly would think these things out , it might be as well to help her . 
You oughtn't to be frightened , she said . 
It's the most natural thing in the world . 
Men will want to kiss you , just as they'll want to marry you . 
The pity is to get things out of proportion . 
It's like noticing the noises people make when they eat , or men spitting or , in short , any small thing that gets on one's nerves . 
Rachel seemed to be inattentive to these remarks . 
Tell me , she said suddenly , what are those women in Piccadilly ? In Picadilly ? They are prostituted , said Helen . 
It is terrifying it is disgusting , Rachel asserted , as if she included Helen in the hatred . 
It is , said Helen . 
But I did like him , Rachel mused , as if speaking to herself . 
I wanted to talk to him I wanted to know what he'd done . 
The softening of her mood was apparent to Helen . 
You see , she said , you must take things as they are and if you want friendship with men you must run risks . 
Though , she added , he bored me considerably . 
But Rachel did not return the smile or dismiss the whole affair , as Helen meant her to . 
Her mind was working very quickly , inconsistently and painfully . 
Helen's words hewed down great blocks which had stood there always , and the light which came in was cold . 
Because men are brutes ! I hate men ! she exclaimed . 
I thought you said you liked him ? said Helen . 
I liked him , and I liked being kissed , she answered , as if that only added more difficulties to her problem . 
Helen was surprised to see how genuine both shock and problem were , but she could think of no way of easing the difficulty except by going on talking . 
And did you like Mrs. Dalloway too ? she asked . 
She was quite nice , but a thimble pated creature , Helen continued . 
He was pompous , but he did at least understand what was said to him . 
The glamour insensibly faded a little both from Richard and Clarissa . 
They had not been so wonderful after all , then , in the eyes of a mature person . 
It's very difficult to know what people are like , Rachel remarked , and Helen saw with pleasure that she spoke more naturally . 
I suppose I was taken in . 
There was little doubt about that according to Helen , but she restrained herself and said aloud One has to make experiments . 
And they were nice , said Rachel . 
She tried to recall the image of the world as a live thing that Richard had given her , with drains like nerves , and bad houses like patches of diseased skin . 
But all people don't seem to you equally interesting , do they ? asked Mrs. Ambrose . 
She then jumped up , disappeared downstairs for a minute , and came back with a fat red book . 
Who's Who , she said , laying it upon Helen's knee and turning the pages . 
Clubs United Service , Naval and Military . 
She became absorbed in the book . 
Helen meanwhile stitched at her embroidery and thought over the things they had said . 
She thought that there must be something wrong in this confusion between politics and kissing politicians , and that an elder person ought to be able to help . 
I quite agree , she said , that people are very interesting only Rachel , putting her finger between the pages , looked up enquiringly . 
Only I think you ought to discriminate , she ended . 
It's a pity to be intimate with people who are well , rather second rate , like the Dalloways , and to find it out later . 
But how does one know ? Rachel asked . 
I really can't tell you , replied Helen candidly , after a moment's thought . 
You'll have to find out for yourself . 
But try and Why don't you call me Helen ? she added . 
I never liked my Aunts . 
I should like to call you Helen , Rachel answered . 
Some things you don't understand , of course . 
Of course , Helen agreed . 
So now you can go ahead and be a person on your own account , she added . 
In spite of them all , said Helen gravely . 
She then put down her needle , and explained a plan which had come into her head as they talked . 
No because we like each other , said Rachel . 
Yes , Mrs. Ambrose agreed . 
That fact , together with other facts , had been made clear by their twenty minutes' talk , although how they had come to these conclusions they could not have said . 
However they were come by , they were sufficiently serious to send Mrs. Ambrose a day or two later in search of her brother in law . 
She found him sitting in his room working , applying a stout blue pencil authoritatively to bundles of filmy paper . 
Papers lay to left and to right of him , there were great envelopes so gorged with papers that they spilt papers on to the table . 
Above him hung a photograph of a woman's head . 
Mrs. Ambrose apologised for the interruption , and asked whether she might speak to him about a plan of hers . 
Willoughby looked very grave and carefully laid aside his papers . 
She's a good girl , he said at length . 
There is a likeness ? he nodded his head at the photograph of Theresa and sighed . 
Helen looked at Theresa pursing up her lips before the Cockney photographer . 
It suggested her in an absurd human way , and she felt an intense desire to share some joke . 
She's the only thing that's left to me , sighed Willoughby . 
We go on year after year without talking about these things He broke off . 
True , said Willoughby when she had done . 
The social conditions are bound to be primitive . 
I should be out a good deal . 
I agreed because she wished it . 
And of course I have complete confidence in you . 
You see , Helen , he continued , becoming confidential , I want to bring her up as her mother would have wished . 
Still , it's kept her happy , and we lead a very quiet life at Richmond . 
I should like her to begin to see more people . 
I want to take her about with me when I get home . 
I'm beginning to realise , he continued , stretching himself out , that all this is tending to Parliament , Helen . 
It's the only way to get things done as one wants them done . 
I talked to Dalloway about it . 
In that case , of course , I should want Rachel to be able to take more part in things . 
A certain amount of entertaining would be necessary dinners , an occasional evening party . 
One's constituents like to be fed , I believe . 
In all these ways Rachel could be of great help to me . 
She could not help laughing at the notion of it Rachel a Tory hostess ! and marvelling as she left him at the astonishing ignorance of a father . 
Rachel , when consulted , showed less enthusiasm than Helen could have wished . 
One moment she was eager , the next doubtful . 
Then she did not want to leave her father . 
Chapter VII From a distance the Euphrosyne looked very small . 
Mr. Pepper with all his learning had been mistaken for a cormorant , and then , as unjustly , transformed into a cow . 
She became a ship passing in the night an emblem of the loneliness of human life , an occasion for queer confidences and sudden appeals for sympathy . 
On and on she went , by day and by night , following her path , until one morning broke and showed the land . 
She rang with cries men jumped on to her her deck was thumped by feet . 
The lonely little island was invaded from all quarters at once , and after four weeks of silence it was bewildering to hear human speech . 
Mrs. Ambrose alone heeded none of this stir . 
She was pale with suspense while the boat with mail bags was making towards them . 
The children are well ! she exclaimed . 
Mr. Pepper , who sat opposite with a great mound of bag and rug upon his knees , said , Gratifying . 
Moving very slowly , and rearing absurdly high over each wave , the little boat was now approaching a white crescent of sand . 
Behind this was a deep green valley , with distinct hills on either side . 
On the slope of the right hand hill white houses with brown roofs were settled , like nesting sea birds , and at intervals cypresses striped the hill with black bars . 
Mountains whose sides were flushed with red , but whose crowns were bald , rose as a pinnacle , half concealing another pinnacle behind it . 
The hour being still early , the whole view was exquisitely light and airy the blues and greens of sky and tree were intense but not sultry . 
Three hundred years odd , said Mr. Pepper meditatively at length . 
As nobody said , What ? he merely extracted a bottle and swallowed a pill . 
The piece of information that died within him was to the effect that three hundred years ago five Elizabethan barques had anchored where the Euphrosyne now floated . 
Half drawn up upon the beach lay an equal number of Spanish galleons , unmanned , for the country was still a virgin land behind a veil . 
Slipping across the water , the English sailors bore away bars of silver , bales of linen , timbers of cedar wood , golden crucifixes knobbed with emeralds . 
When the Spaniards came down from their drinking , a fight ensued , the two parties churning up the sand , and driving each other into the surf . 
Here a settlement was made women were imported children grew . 
the English dwindled away and all but disappeared . 
English history then denies all knowledge of the place . 
In population it is a happy compromise , for Portuguese fathers wed Indian mothers , and their children intermarry with the Spanish . 
The movement in search of something new was of course infinitely small , affecting only a handful of well to do people . 
It began by a few schoolmasters serving their passage out to South America as the pursers of tramp steamers . 
The country itself taxed all their powers of description , for they said it was much bigger than Italy , and really nobler than Greece . 
Again , they declared that the natives were strangely beautiful , very big in stature , dark , passionate , and quick to seize the knife . 
Often , leaning upon the column in the verandah , he had watched the English ships with English schoolmasters for pursers steaming into the bay . 
Taking seats in a carriage drawn by long tailed horses with pheasants' feathers erect between their ears , the Ambroses , Mr. Pepper , and Rachel rattled out of the harbour . 
The day increased in heat as they drove up the hill . 
The garden called urgently for the services of gardener . 
Bushes waved their branches across the paths , and the blades of grass , with spaces of earth between them , could be counted . 
The circular garden led to a long garden , where the gardener's shears had scarcely been , unless now and then , when he cut a bough of blossom for his beloved . 
A few tall trees shaded it , and round bushes with wax like flowers mobbed their heads together in a row . 
There was no ugliness to shut out , and the villa looked straight across the shoulder of a slope , ribbed with olive trees , to the sea . 
The indecency of the whole place struck Mrs. Chailey forcibly . 
There were no blinds to shut out the sun , nor was there any furniture to speak of for the sun to spoil . 
As for hot water at this point her investigations left her speechless . 
In Chailey's opinion they would have done better to stay on board an English ship , but none knew better than she that her duty commanded her to stay . 
Efforts had been made for some days before landing to impress upon him the advantages of the Amazons . 
That great stream ! Helen would begin , gazing as if she saw a visionary cascade , I've a good mind to go with you myself , Willoughby only I can't . 
Think of the sunsets and the moonrises I believe the colours are unimaginable . 
There are wild peacocks , Rachel hazarded . 
And marvellous creatures in the water , Helen asserted . 
One might discover a new reptile , Rachel continued . 
There's certain to be a revolution , I'm told , Helen urged . 
The dinner table was set between two long windows which were left uncurtained by Helen's orders . 
Darkness fell as sharply as a knife in this climate , and the town then sprang out in circles and lines of bright dots beneath them . 
Buildings which never showed by day showed by night , and the sea flowed right over the land judging by the moving lights of the steamers . 
The sight fulfilled the same purpose as an orchestra in a London restaurant , and silence had its setting . 
William Pepper observed it for some time he put on his spectacles to contemplate the scene . 
I've identified the big block to the left , he observed , and pointed with his fork at a square formed by several rows of lights . 
One should infer that they can cook vegetables , he added . 
An hotel ? said Helen . 
Once a monastery , said Mr. Pepper . 
Nothing more was said then , but , the day after , Mr. Pepper returned from a midday walk , and stood silently before Helen who was reading in the verandah . 
I've taken a room over there , he said . 
You're not going ? she exclaimed . 
On the whole yes , he remarked . 
No private cook can cook vegetables . 
Knowing his dislike of questions , which she to some extent shared , Helen asked no more . 
Still , an uneasy suspicion lurked in her mind that William was hiding a wound . 
She flushed to think that her words , or her husband's , or Rachel's had penetrated and stung . 
If you all die of typhoid I won't be responsible ! he snapped . 
If you die of dulness , neither will I , Helen echoed in her heart . 
She reflected that she had never yet asked him whether he had been in love . 
The three months which had passed had brought them to the beginning of March . 
Below , the sea was still blue and the roofs still brown and white , though the day was fading rapidly . 
It was dusk in the room , which , large and empty at all times , now appeared larger and emptier than usual . 
There were no pictures on the walls but here and there boughs laden with heavy petalled flowers spread widely against them . 
Of the books fallen on the bare floor and heaped upon the large table , it was only possible in this light to trace the outline . 
Mrs. Ambrose was writing a very long letter . 
They had made several expeditions though none of any length . 
It was worth coming if only for the sake of the flowering trees which grew wild quite near the house , and the amazing colours of sea and earth . 
The earth , instead of being brown , was red , purple , green . 
You won't believe me , she added , there is no colour like it in England . 
She went on to deride the islanders themselves . 
Rumours of London all in a ferment over a General Election had reached them even out here . 
When have you ever encouraged a living artist ? Or bought his best work ? Why are you all so ugly and so servile ? Here the servants are human beings . 
They talk to one as if they were equals . 
As far as I can tell there are no aristocrats . 
Perhaps it was the mention of aristocrats that reminded her of Richard Dalloway and Rachel , for she ran on with the same penful to describe her niece . 
However , I must retract some of the things that I have said against them . 
If they were properly educated I don't see why they shouldn't be much the same as men as satisfactory I mean though , of course , very different . 
The question is , how should one educate them . 
The present method seems to me abominable . 
This girl , though twenty four , had never heard that men desired women , and , until I explained it , did not know how children were born . 
It seems to me not merely foolish but criminal to bring people up like that . 
Let alone the suffering to them , it explains why women are what they are the wonder is they're no worse . 
I have taken it upon myself to enlighten her , and now , though still a good deal prejudiced and liable to exaggerate , she is more or less a reasonable human being . 
Keeping them ignorant , of course , defeats its own object , and when they begin to understand they take it all much too seriously . 
My brother in law really deserved a catastrophe which he won't get . 
Unluckily such men seem almost as rare as the women . 
The English colony certainly doesn't provide one artists , merchants , cultivated people they are stupid , conventional , and flirtatious . 
The bell rang she rose , met Ridley and Rachel outside , and they all went in to dinner . 
Her skin was brown , her eyes certainly brighter , and she attended to what was said as though she might be going to contradict it . 
The meal began with the comfortable silence of people who are quite at their ease together . 
Then Ridley , leaning on his elbow and looking out of the window , observed that it was a lovely night . 
She added , The season's begun , looking at the lights beneath them . 
She asked Maria in Spanish whether the hotel was not filling up with visitors . 
That's an English steamer in the bay , said Rachel , looking at a triangle of lights below . 
She came in early this morning . 
Then we may hope for some letters and send ours back , said Helen . 
Considering the last batch , said Helen , you deserve beating . 
Really , Ridley , I think you're the vainest man I know , she ended , rising from the table , which I may tell you is saying a good deal . 
Helen laid hold of his beard . 
Am I a fool ? she said . 
Let me go , Helen . 
Am I a fool ? she repeated . 
Vile woman ! he exclaimed , and kissed her . 
We'll leave you to your vanities , she called back as they went out of the door . 
It was a beautiful evening , still light enough to see a long way down the road , though the stars were coming out . 
The pillar box was let into a high yellow wall where the lane met the road , and having dropped the letters into it , Helen was for turning back . 
No , no , said Rachel , taking her by the wrist . 
We're going to see life . 
Seeing life was the phrase they used for their habit of strolling through the town after dark . 
The social life of Santa Marina was carried on almost entirely by lamp light , which the warmth of the nights and the scents culled from flowers made pleasant enough . 
At the open windows merchants could be seen making up the day's account , and older women lifting jars from shelf to shelf . 
The two Englishwomen excited some friendly curiosity , but no one molested them . 
Helen sauntered on , observing the different people in their shabby clothes , who seemed so careless and so natural , with satisfaction . 
Just think of the Mall to night ! she exclaimed at length . 
It's the fifteenth of March . 
She thought of the crowd waiting in the cold spring air to see the grand carriages go by . 
It's very cold , if it's not raining , she said . 
First there are men selling picture postcards then there are wretched little shop girls with round bandboxes then there are bank clerks in tail coats and then any number of dressmakers . 
They had to part in order to circumvent a crowd . 
They believe in God , said Rachel as they regained each other . 
We shall never understand ! she sighed . 
They had walked some way and it was now night , but they could see a large iron gate a little way farther down the road on their left . 
Do you mean to go right up to the hotel ? Helen asked . 
Rachel gave the gate a push it swung open , and , seeing no one about and judging that nothing was private in this country , they walked straight on . 
An avenue of trees ran along the road , which was completely straight . 
The trees suddenly came to an end the road turned a corner , and they found themselves confronted by a large square building . 
They had come out upon the broad terrace which ran round the hotel and were only a few feet distant from the windows . 
A row of long windows opened almost to the ground . 
They were all of them uncurtained , and all brilliantly lighted , so that they could see everything inside . 
Each window revealed a different section of the life of the hotel . 
They drew into one of the broad columns of shadow which separated the windows and gazed in . 
They found themselves just outside the dining room . 
It was being swept a waiter was eating a bunch of grapes with his leg across the corner of a table . 
A thin woman was flourishing up and down the piano . 
What is a dahabeeyah , Charles ? the distinct voice of a widow , seated in an arm chair by the window , asked her son . 
It was the end of the piece , and his answer was lost in the general clearing of throats and tapping of knees . 
They're all old in this room , Rachel whispered . 
Creeping on , they found that the next window revealed two men in shirt sleeves playing billiards with two young ladies . 
He pinched my arm ! the plump young woman cried , as she missed her stroke . 
Now you two no ragging , the young man with the red face reproved them , who was marking . 
Take care or we shall be seen , whispered Helen , plucking Rachel by the arm . 
Incautiously her head had risen to the middle of the window . 
Turning the corner they came to the largest room in the hotel , which was supplied with four windows , and was called the Lounge , although it was really a hall . 
He was congratulating himself upon the enterprise which had turned the refectory , a cold stone room with pots on trestles , into the most comfortable room in the house . 
The hotel was very full , and proved his wisdom in decreeing that no hotel can flourish without a lounge . 
The people were scattered about in couples or parties of four , and either they were actually better acquainted , or the informal room made their manners easier . 
Through the open window came an uneven humming sound like that which rises from a flock of sheep pent within hurdles at dusk . 
The card party occupied the centre of the foreground . 
Helen and Rachel watched them play for some minutes without being able to distinguish a word . 
Helen was observing one of the men intently . 
Hughling Elliot ! Of course ! Helen exclaimed . 
She ducked her head immediately , for at the sound of his name he looked up . 
He appeared to be rather stout , and had a thick crop of hair . 
Luck , Mr. Hewet ? said his partner , a middle aged lady with spectacles . 
I assure you , Mrs. Paley , our success is due solely to our brilliant play . 
They'll get some one else to take my place , she said cheerfully . 
Mr. Hewet turned his full face towards the window . 
He came straight towards them , but his eyes were fixed not upon the eavesdroppers but upon a spot where the curtain hung in folds . 
Helen and Rachel started to think that some one had been sitting near to them unobserved all the time . 
There were legs in the shadow . 
A melancholy voice issued from above them . 
Two women , it said . 
A scuffling was heard on the gravel . 
Chapter IX An hour passed , and the downstairs rooms at the hotel grew dim and were almost deserted , while the little box like squares above them were brilliantly irradiated . 
Some forty or fifty people were going to bed . 
It was only matchboard , she decided , run up to make many little rooms of one large one . 
She was deep in the fifth book , stopping indeed to pencil a note , when a pair of boots dropped , one after another , on the floor above her . 
She looked up and speculated . 
Whose boots were they , she wondered . 
She then became aware of a swishing sound next door a woman , clearly , putting away her dress . 
It was succeeded by a gentle tapping sound , such as that which accompanies hair dressing . 
It was very difficult to keep her attention fixed upon the Prelude . 
Very different was the room through the wall , though as like in shape as one egg box is like another . 
As Miss Allan read her book , Susan Warrington was brushing her hair . 
She turned her head from side to side , tossing heavy locks now this way now that and then withdrew a pace or two , and considered herself seriously . 
I'm nice looking , she determined . 
Not pretty possibly , she drew herself up a little . 
Yes most people would say I was handsome . 
She was really wondering what Arthur Venning would say she was . 
Her feeling about him was decidedly queer . 
He didn't ask me to play , but he certainly followed me into the hall , she meditated , summing up the evening . 
She was thirty years of age , and owing to the number of her sisters and the seclusion of life in a country parsonage had as yet had no proposal of marriage . 
She was a big , well made woman , the red lying upon her cheeks in patches that were too well defined , but her serious anxiety gave her a kind of beauty . 
She was just about to pull back the bed clothes when she exclaimed , Oh , but I'm forgetting , and went to her writing table . 
A brown volume lay there stamped with the figure of the year . 
She proceeded to write in the square ugly hand of a mature child , as she wrote daily year after year , keeping the diaries , though she seldom looked at them . 
A. M. Talked to Mrs. H. Elliot about country neighbours . 
She knows the Manns also the Selby Carroways . 
How small the world is ! Like her . 
Day splendid , view wonderful . 
One gets used to no trees , though much too bare at first . 
Aunt E. cheerful , though twingy , she says . 
She knelt in prayer , and then lay down in bed , tucking the blankets comfortably about her , and in a few minutes her breathing showed that she was asleep . 
With its profoundly peaceful sighs and hesitations it resembled that of a cow standing up to its knees all night through in the long grass . 
A glance into the next room revealed little more than a nose , prominent above the sheets . 
Thirty six , thirty seven , thirty eight here were three Portuguese men of business , asleep presumably , since a snore came with the regularity of a great ticking clock . 
How late you are , Hugh ! a woman , lying in bed , said in a peevish but solicitous voice . 
Her husband was brushing his teeth , and for some moments did not answer . 
You should have gone to sleep , he replied . 
I was talking to Thornbury . 
But you know that I never can sleep when I'm waiting for you , she said . 
To that he made no answer , but only remarked , Well then , we'll turn out the light . 
The faint but penetrating pulse of an electric bell could now be heard in the corridor . 
Old Mrs. Paley , having woken hungry but without her spectacles , was summoning her maid to find the biscuit box . 
The maid having answered the bell , drearily respectful even at this hour though muffled in a mackintosh , the passage was left in silence . 
Downstairs all was empty and dark but on the upper floor a light still burnt in the room where the boots had dropped so heavily above Miss Allan's head . 
Here was the gentleman who , a few hours previously , in the shade of the curtain , had seemed to consist entirely of legs . 
Deep in an arm chair he was reading the third volume of Gibbon's History of the Decline and Fall of Rome by candle light . 
Oh , Hirst , what I forgot to say was Two minutes , said Hirst , raising his finger . 
He safely stowed away the last words of the paragraph . 
What was it you forgot to say ? he asked . 
D'you think you do make enough allowance for feelings ? asked Mr. Hewet . 
He had again forgotten what he had meant to say . 
After intense contemplation of the immaculate Gibbon Mr. Hirst smiled at the question of his friend . 
He laid aside his book and considered . 
I should call yours a singularly untidy mind , he observed . 
Feelings ? Aren't they just what we do allow for ? We put love up there , and all the rest somewhere down below . 
With his left hand he indicated the top of a pyramid , and with his right the base . 
But you didn't get out of bed to tell me that , he added severely . 
I got out of bed , said Hewet vaguely , merely to talk I suppose . 
Meanwhile I shall undress , said Hirst . 
Women interest me , said Hewet , who , sitting on the bed with his chin resting on his knees , paid no attention to the undressing of Mr. Hirst . 
They're so stupid , said Hirst . 
You're sitting on my pyjamas . 
I suppose they are stupid ? Hewet wondered . 
There can't be two opinions about that , I imagine , said Hirst , hopping briskly across the room , unless you're in love that fat woman Warrington ? he enquired . 
Not one fat woman all fat women , Hewet sighed . 
The women I saw to night were not fat , said Hirst , who was taking advantage of Hewet's company to cut his toe nails . 
Describe them , said Hewet . 
You know I can't describe things ! said Hirst . 
They were much like other women , I should think . 
No that's where we differ , said Hewet . 
No two people are in the least the same . 
Take you and me now . 
So I used to think once , said Hirst . 
But now they're all types . 
Don't take us , take this hotel . 
You could draw circles round the whole lot of them , and they'd never stray outside . 
Mr. Hughling Elliot , Mrs. Hughling Elliot , Miss Allan , Mr. and Mrs. Thornbury one circle , Hirst continued . 
Miss Warrington , Mr. Arthur Venning , Mr. Perrott , Evelyn M. another circle then there are a whole lot of natives finally ourselves . 
Are we all alone in our circle ? asked Hewet . 
Quite alone , said Hirst . 
You try to get out , but you can't . 
You only make a mess of things by trying . 
I'm not a hen in a circle , said Hewet . 
I'm a dove on a tree top . 
I wonder if this is what they call an ingrowing toe nail ? said Hirst , examining the big toe on his left foot . 
I flit from branch to branch , continued Hewet . 
The world is profoundly pleasant . 
He lay back on the bed , upon his arms . 
I wonder if it's really nice to be as vague as you are ? asked Hirst , looking at him . 
It's the lack of continuity that's what's so odd bout you , he went on . 
At the age of twenty seven , which is nearly thirty , you seem to have drawn no conclusions . 
A party of old women excites you still as though you were three . 
Hewet contemplated the angular young man who was neatly brushing the rims of his toe nails into the fire place in silence for a moment . 
I respect you , Hirst , he remarked . 
I envy you some things , said Hirst . 
One your capacity for not thinking two people like you better than they like me . 
Women like you , I suppose . 
I wonder whether that isn't really what matters most ? said Hewet . 
Lying now flat on the bed he waved his hand in vague circles above him . 
Of course it is , said Hirst . 
But that's not the difficulty . 
The difficulty is , isn't it , to find an appropriate object ? There are no female hens in your circle ? asked Hewet . 
Not the ghost of one , said Hirst . 
Although they had known each other for three years Hirst had never yet heard the true story of Hewet's loves . 
In general conversation it was taken for granted that they were many , but in private the subject was allowed to lapse . 
I don't see your circles I don't see them , Hewet continued . 
Round and round they go out there , over the rim out of sight . 
His fingers showed that the waltzing teetotums had spun over the edge of the counterpane and fallen off the bed into infinity . 
Could you contemplate three weeks alone in this hotel ? asked Hirst , after a moment's pause . 
The truth of it is that one never is alone , and one never is in company , he concluded . 
The flame goes about with us everywhere it's not ourselves exactly , but what we feel the world is short , or people mainly all kinds of people . 
A nice streaky bubble yours must be ! said Hirst . 
And supposing my bubble could run into some one else's bubble And they both burst ? put in Hirst . 
I don't think you altogether as foolish as I used to , Hewet , said Hirst . 
You don't know what you mean but you try to say it . 
But aren't you enjoying yourself here ? asked Hewet . 
On the whole yes , said Hirst . 
I like looking at things . 
This country is amazingly beautiful . 
Did you notice how the top of the mountain turned yellow to night ? Really we must take our lunch and spend the day out . 
He pointed at the calf of Hewet's bare leg . 
We'll get up an expedition , said Hewet energetically . 
We'll ask the entire hotel . 
What's the name of the little old grasshopper with the eyeglasses ? Pepper ? Pepper shall lead us . 
Thank God , you'll never get the donkeys , said Hirst . 
I must make a note of that , said Hewet , slowly dropping his feet to the floor . 
Hirst escorts Miss Warrington Pepper advances alone on a white ass provisions equally distributed or shall we hire a mule ? The matrons there's Mrs. Paley , by Jove ! share a carriage . 
That's where you'll go wrong , said Hirst . 
How long should you think that an expedition like that would take , Hirst ? asked Hewet . 
From twelve to sixteen hours I would say , said Hirst . 
The time usually occupied by a first confinement . 
It will need considerable organisation , said Hewet . 
He was now padding softly round the room , and stopped to stir the books on the table . 
They lay heaped one upon another . 
We shall want some poets too , he remarked . 
Mrs. Paley will enjoy herself , said Hirst . 
Mrs. Paley will enjoy it certainly , said Hewet . 
It's one of the saddest things I know the way elderly ladies cease to read poetry . 
And yet how appropriate this is I speak as one who plumbs Life's dim profound , One who at length can sound Clear views and certain . 
But after love what comes ? A scene that lours , A few sad vacant hours , And then , the Curtain . 
I daresay Mrs. Paley is the only one of us who can really understand that . 
We'll ask her , said Hirst . 
Please , Hewet , if you must go to bed , draw my curtain . 
Few things distress me more than the moonlight . 
Hewet retreated , pressing the poems of Thomas Hardy beneath his arm , and in their beds next door to each other both the young men were soon asleep . 
One could almost hear a hundred people breathing deeply , and however wakeful and restless it would have been hard to escape sleep in the middle of so much sleep . 
Looking out of the windows , there was only darkness to be seen . 
All over the shadowed half of the world people lay prone , and a few flickering lights in empty streets marked the places where their cities were built . 
Until all people should awake again the houseless animals were abroad , the tigers and the stags , and the elephants coming down in the darkness to drink at pools . 
Directly breakfast was over , the ladies as usual circled vaguely , picking up papers and putting them down again , about the hall . 
And what are you going to do to day ? asked Mrs. Elliot drifting up against Miss Warrington . 
Mrs. Elliot , the wife of Hughling the Oxford Don , was a short woman , whose expression was habitually plaintive . 
Her eyes moved from thing to thing as though they never found anything sufficiently pleasant to rest upon for any length of time . 
I'm going to try to get Aunt Emma out into the town , said Susan . 
She's not seen a thing yet . 
I call it so spirited of her at her age , said Mrs. Elliot , coming all this way from her own fireside . 
Yes , we always tell her she'll die on board ship , Susan replied . 
She was born on one , she added . 
In the old days , said Mrs. Elliot , a great many people were . 
I always pity the poor women so ! We've got a lot to complain of ! She shook her head . 
I always envy any one who lives in such an excessively flat country , she remarked . 
How very strange ! said Mrs. Elliot . 
I find a flat country so depressing . 
I'm afraid you can't be very happy here then , Miss Allan , said Susan . 
On the contrary , said Miss Allan , I am exceedingly fond of mountains . 
Perceiving The Times at some distance , she moved off to secure it . 
Well , I must find my husband , said Mrs. Elliot , fidgeting away . 
And I must go to my aunt , said Miss Warrington , and taking up the duties of the day they moved away . 
A very respectable elderly pair , having inspected the long tables of newspapers , did not think it worth their while to read more than the headlines . 
The debate on the fifteenth should have reached us by now , Mrs. Thornbury murmured . 
The couple therefore sat themselves down in arm chairs and waited . 
Ah , there's Mr. Hewet , said Mrs. Thornbury . 
Mr. Hewet , she continued , do come and sit by us . 
I was telling my husband how much you reminded me of a dear old friend of mine Mary Umpleby . 
She was a most delightful woman , I assure you . 
We used to stay with her in the old days . 
No young man likes to have it said that he resembles an elderly spinster , said Mr. Thornbury . 
On the contrary , said Mr. Hewet , I always think it a compliment to remind people of some one else . 
But Miss Umpleby why did she grow roses ? Ah , poor thing , said Mrs. Thornbury , that's a long story . 
She had gone through dreadful sorrows . 
At one time I think she would have lost her senses if it hadn't been for her garden . 
The soil was very much against her a blessing in disguise she had to be up at dawn out in all weathers . 
And then there are creatures that eat roses . 
She was a brave soul . 
She sighed deeply but at the same time with resignation . 
I did not realise that I was monopolising the paper , said Miss Allan , coming up to them . 
We were so anxious to read about the debate , said Mrs. Thornbury , accepting it on behalf of her husband . 
One doesn't realise how interesting a debate can be until one has sons in the navy . 
Mr. Hirst has such an interesting face , said Mrs. Thornbury . 
But I feel one ought to be very clever to talk to him . 
Well , William ? she enquired , for Mr. Thornbury grunted . 
They're making a mess of it , said Mr. Thornbury . 
He had reached the second column of the report , a spasmodic column , for the Irish members had been brawling three weeks ago at Westminster over a question of naval efficiency . 
After a disturbed paragraph or two , the column of print once more ran smoothly . 
You have read it ? Mrs. Thornbury asked Miss Allan . 
No , I am ashamed to say I have only read about the discoveries in Crete , said Miss Allan . 
Oh , but I would give so much to realise the ancient world ! cried Mrs. Thornbury . 
Now that we old people are alone , we're on our second honeymoon , I am really going to put myself to school again . 
After all we are founded on the past , aren't we , Mr. Hewet ? My soldier son says that there is still a great deal to be learnt from Hannibal . 
One ought to know so much more than one does . 
But you begin at the beginning , Miss Allan . 
When I think of the Greeks I think of them as naked black men , said Miss Allan , which is quite incorrect , I'm sure . 
And you , Mr. Hirst ? said Mrs. Thornbury , perceiving that the gaunt young man was near . 
I'm sure you read everything . 
I confine myself to cricket and crime , said Hirst . 
The worst of coming from the upper classes , he continued , is that one's friends are never killed in railway accidents . 
Mr. Thornbury threw down the paper , and emphatically dropped his eyeglasses . 
The sheets fell in the middle of the group , and were eyed by them all . 
It's not gone well ? asked his wife solicitously . 
Hewet picked up one sheet and read , A lady was walking yesterday in the streets of Westminster when she perceived a cat in the window of a deserted house . 
The famished animal I shall be out of it anyway , Mr. Thornbury interrupted peevishly . 
Cats are often forgotten , Miss Allan remarked . 
Remember , William , the Prime Minister has reserved his answer , said Mrs. Thornbury . 
At the age of eighty , Mr. Joshua Harris of Eeles Park , Brondesbury , has had a son , said Hirst . 
You're all neglecting the chief advantage of being abroad , said Mr. Hughling Elliot , who had joined the group . 
You might read your news in French , which is equivalent to reading no news at all . 
He had an immense respect for the French . 
Coming ? he asked the two young men . 
We ought to start before it's really hot . 
I beg of you not to walk in the heat , Hugh , his wife pleaded , giving him an angular parcel enclosing half a chicken and some raisins . 
Hewet will be our barometer , said Mr. Elliot . 
He will melt before I shall . 
Indeed , if so much as a drop had melted off his spare ribs , the bones would have lain bare . 
The ladies were left alone now , surrounding The Times which lay upon the floor . 
Miss Allan looked at her father's watch . 
Ten minutes to eleven , she observed . 
Work ? asked Mrs. Thornbury . 
Work , replied Miss Allan . 
What a fine creature she is ! murmured Mrs. Thornbury , as the square figure in its manly coat withdrew . 
And I'm sure she has a hard life , sighed Mrs. Elliot . 
Oh , it is a hard life , said Mrs. Thornbury . 
Unmarried women earning their livings it's the hardest life of all . 
Yet she seems pretty cheerful , said Mrs. Elliot . 
It must be very interesting , said Mrs. Thornbury . 
I envy her her knowledge . 
But that isn't what women want , said Mrs. Elliot . 
I'm afraid it's all a great many can hope to have , sighed Mrs. Thornbury . 
I believe that there are more of us than ever now . 
Sir Harley Lethbridge was telling me only the other day how difficult it is to find boys for the navy partly because of their teeth , it is true . 
And I have heard young women talk quite openly of Dreadful , dreadful ! exclaimed Mrs. Elliot . 
The crown , as one may call it , of a woman's life . 
I , who know what it is to be childless she sighed and ceased . 
But we must not be hard , said Mrs. Thornbury . 
The conditions are so much changed since I was a young woman . 
Surely maternity does not change , said Mrs. Elliot . 
In some ways we can learn a great deal from the young , said Mrs. Thornbury . 
I learn so much from my own daughters . 
I believe that Hughling really doesn't mind , said Mrs. Elliot . 
But then he has his work . 
Women without children can do so much for the children of others , observed Mrs. Thornbury gently . 
I sketch a great deal , said Mrs. Elliot , but that isn't really an occupation . 
They are so exhausting , said Mrs. Elliot . 
I look strong , because of my colour but I'm not the youngest of eleven never is . 
If the mother is careful before , said Mrs. Thornbury judicially , there is no reason why the size of the family should make any difference . 
And there is no training like the training that brothers and sisters give each other . 
I am sure of that . 
I have seen it with my own children . 
My eldest boy Ralph , for instance But Mrs. Elliot was inattentive to the elder lady's experience , and her eyes wandered about the hall . 
My mother had two miscarriages , I know , she said suddenly . 
The first because she met one of those great dancing bears they shouldn't be allowed the other it was a horrid story our cook had a child and there was a dinner party . 
So I put my dyspepsia down to that . 
And a miscarriage is so much worse than a confinement , Mrs. Thornbury murmured absentmindedly , adjusting her spectacles and picking up The Times . 
Mrs. Elliot rose and fluttered away . 
The paper lay directly beneath the clock , the two together seeming to represent stability in a changing world . 
Mr. Perrott passed through Mr. Venning poised for a second on the edge of a table . 
Mrs. Paley was wheeled past . 
Mr. Venning strolled after her . 
Portuguese military families , their clothes suggesting late rising in untidy bedrooms , trailed across , attended by confidential nurses carrying noisy children . 
The clock now had a silent hall to tick in , and an audience of four or five somnolent merchants . 
By degrees white figures with shady hats came in at the door , admitting a wedge of the hot summer day , and shutting it out again . 
After resting in the dimness for a minute , they went upstairs . 
Simultaneously , the clock wheezed one , and the gong sounded , beginning softly , working itself into a frenzy , and ceasing . 
The gong had been sounded in the garden , and by degrees recumbent figures rose and strolled in to eat , since the time had come for them to feed again . 
There were pools and bars of shade in the garden even at midday , where two or three visitors could lie working or talking at their ease . 
Mrs. Paley , although well over seventy and crippled in the legs , enjoyed her food and the peculiarities of her fellow beings . 
She was seated at a small table with Susan . 
Men and women sought different corners where they could lie unobserved , and from two to four it might be said without exaggeration that the hotel was inhabited by bodies without souls . 
Disastrous would have been the result if a fire or a death had suddenly demanded something heroic of human nature , but tragedies come in the hungry hours . 
Towards four o'clock the human spirit again began to lick the body , as a flame licks a black promontory of coal . 
Mrs. Paley felt it unseemly to open her toothless jaw so widely , though there was no one near , and Mrs. Elliot surveyed her found flushed face anxiously in the looking glass . 
Half an hour later , having removed the traces of sleep , they met each other in the hall , and Mrs. Paley observed that she was going to have her tea . 
A little silver goes a long way in this country , she chuckled . 
She sent Susan back to fetch another cup . 
They have such excellent biscuits here , she said , contemplating a plateful . 
Not sweet biscuits , which I don't like dry biscuits . 
Have you been sketching ? Oh , I've done two or three little daubs , said Mrs. Elliot , speaking rather louder than usual . 
But it's so difficult after Oxfordshire , where there are so many trees . 
The light's so strong here . 
Some people admire it , I know , but I find it very fatiguing . 
I really don't need cooking , Susan , said Mrs. Paley , when her niece returned . 
I must trouble you to move me . 
Everything had to be moved . 
Finally the old lady was placed so that the light wavered over her , as though she were a fish in a net . 
Susan poured out tea , and was just remarking that they were having hot weather in Wiltshire too , when Mr. Venning asked whether he might join them . 
It's so nice to find a young man who doesn't despise tea , said Mrs. Paley , regaining her good humour . 
I'd rather go without lunch than tea , said Mr. Venning . 
Mr. Venning was a dark young man , about thirty two years of age , very slapdash and confident in his manner , although at this moment obviously a little excited . 
It dealt , of course , with the beauties and singularities of the place , the streets , the people , and the quantities of unowned yellow dogs . 
Don't you think it dreadfully cruel the way they treat dogs in this country ? asked Mrs. Paley . 
I'd have 'em all shot , said Mr. Venning . 
Oh , but the darling puppies , said Susan . 
Jolly little chaps , said Mr. Venning . 
Look here , you've got nothing to eat . 
A great wedge of cake was handed Susan on the point of a trembling knife . 
Her hand trembled too as she took it . 
I have such a dear dog at home , said Mrs. Elliot . 
My parrot can't stand dogs , said Mrs. Paley , with the air of one making a confidence . 
was teased by a dog when I was abroad . 
You didn't get far this morning , Miss Warrington , said Mr. Venning . 
It was hot , she answered . 
Animals do commit suicide , she sighed , as if she asserted a painful fact . 
Couldn't we explore the town this evening ? Mr. Venning suggested . 
You deserve a holiday , he said . 
You're always doing things for other people . 
But that's my life , she said , under cover of refilling the teapot . 
That's no one's life , he returned , no young person's . 
You'll come ? I should like to come , she murmured . 
At this moment Mrs. Elliot looked up and exclaimed , Oh , Hugh ! He's bringing some one , she added . 
He would like some tea , said Mrs. Paley . 
Susan , run and get some cups there are the two young men . 
We're thirsting for tea , said Mr. Elliot . 
You know Mr. Ambrose , Hilda ? We met on the hill . 
He dragged me in , said Ridley , or I should have been ashamed . 
I'm dusty and dirty and disagreeable . 
He was introduced to the others . 
Mr. Hewet and Mr. Hirst brought chairs , and tea began again , Susan pouring cascades of water from pot to pot , always cheerfully , and with the competence of long use . 
My wife's brother , Ridley explained to Hilda , whom he failed to remember , has a house here , which he has lent us . 
I was sitting on a rock thinking of nothing at all when Elliot started up like a fairy in a pantomime . 
Our chicken got into the salt , Hewet said dolefully to Susan . 
Nor is it true that bananas include moisture as well as sustenance . 
We've been cursing you , said Ridley in answer to Mrs. Elliot's kind enquiries about his wife . 
You tourists eat up all the eggs , Helen tells me . 
That's an eye sore too he nodded his head at the hotel . 
Disgusting luxury , I call it . 
We live with pigs in the drawing room . 
The food is not at all what it ought to be , considering the price , said Mrs. Paley seriously . 
But unless one goes to a hotel where is one to go to ? Stay at home , said Ridley . 
I often wish I had ! Everyone ought to stay at home . 
But , of course , they won't . 
Mrs. Paley conceived a certain grudge against Ridley , who seemed to be criticising her habits after an acquaintance of five minutes . 
I believe in foreign travel myself , she stated , if one knows one's native land , which I think I can honestly say I do . 
I should not allow any one to travel until they had visited Kent and Dorsetshire Kent for the hops , and Dorsetshire for its old stone cottages . 
There is nothing to compare with them here . 
Yes I always think that some people like the flat and other people like the downs , said Mrs. Elliot rather vaguely . 
Hirst , who had been eating and drinking without interruption , now lit a cigarette , and observed , Oh , but we're all agreed by this time that nature's a mistake . 
She's either very ugly , appallingly uncomfortable , or absolutely terrifying . 
I don't know which alarms me most a cow or a tree . 
I once met a cow in a field by night . 
The creature looked at me . 
I assure you it turned my hair grey . 
It's a disgrace that the animals should be allowed to go at large . 
Wasn't it Wilde who discovered the fact that nature makes no allowance for hip bones ? enquired Hughling Elliot . 
He knew by this time exactly what scholarships and distinction Hirst enjoyed , and had formed a very high opinion of his capacities . 
But Hirst merely drew his lips together very tightly and made no reply . 
Ridley conjectured that it was now permissible for him to take his leave . 
Politeness required him to thank Mrs. Elliot for his tea , and to add , with a wave of his hand , You must come up and see us . 
The wave included both Hirst and Hewet , and Hewet answered , I should like it immensely . 
Rooms , she knew , became more like worlds than rooms at the age of twenty four . 
Her judgment was correct , and when she shut the door Rachel entered an enchanted place , where the poets sang and things fell into their right proportions . 
Music was open on the piano , and books of music rose in two jagged pillars on the floor but for the moment music was deserted . 
Ibsen's plays always left her in that condition . 
She acted them for days at a time , greatly to Helen's amusement and then it would be Meredith's turn and she became Diana of the Crossways . 
But Helen was aware that it was not all acting , and that some sort of change was taking place in the human being . 
But Mrs. Ambrose would have been the first to disclaim any influence , or indeed any belief that to influence was within her power . 
Nor did she encourage those habits of unselfishness and amiability founded upon insincerity which are put at so high a value in mixed households of men and women . 
She desired that Rachel should think , and for this reason offered books and discouraged too entire a dependence upon Bach and Beethoven and Wagner . 
But she did not interfere . 
She threw the book down , looked out of the window , turned away from the window , and relapsed into an arm chair . 
She was next overcome by the unspeakable queerness of the fact that she should be sitting in an arm chair , in the morning , in the middle of the world . 
Her dissolution became so complete that she could not raise her finger any more , and sat perfectly still , listening and looking always at the same spot . 
It became stranger and stranger . 
She was overcome with awe that things should exist at all . 
She forgot that she had any fingers to raise . 
The things that existed were so immense and so desolate . 
She continued to be conscious of these vast masses of substance for a long stretch of time , the clock still ticking in the midst of the universal silence . 
Come in , she said mechanically , for a string in her brain seemed to be pulled by a persistent knocking at the door . 
I don't know what to answer , or who Terence Hewet is , Helen continued , in the toneless voice of a ghost . 
She put a paper before Rachel on which were written the incredible words DEAR MRS . 
AMBROSE I am getting up a picnic for next Friday , when we propose to start at eleven thirty if the weather is fine , and to make the ascent of Monte Rosa . 
It will take some time , but the view should be magnificent . 
It would give me great pleasure if you and Miss Vinrace would consent to be of the party . 
Yours sincerely , TERENCE HEWET Rachel read the words aloud to make herself believe in them . 
For the same reason she put her hand on Helen's shoulder . 
Books books books , said Helen , in her absent minded way . 
More new books I wonder what you find in them . 
For the second time Rachel read the letter , but to herself . 
This time , instead of seeming vague as ghosts , each word was astonishingly prominent they came out as the tops of mountains come through a mist . 
Friday eleven thirty Miss Vinrace . 
The blood began to run in her veins she felt her eyes brighten . 
We must go , she said , rather surprising Helen by her decision . 
We must certainly go such was the relief of finding that things still happened , and indeed they appeared the brighter for the mist surrounding them . 
Monte Rosa that's the mountain over there , isn't it ? said Helen but Hewet who's he ? One of the young men Ridley met , I suppose . 
Shall I say yes , then ? It may be dreadfully dull . 
She took the letter back and went , for the messenger was waiting for her answer . 
Undoubtedly , he said , as he twirled and untwirled a note signed Helen Ambrose , the gifts needed to make a great commander have been absurdly overrated . 
What else is generalship , Hirst ? What more did Wellington do on the field of Waterloo ? It's like counting the number of pebbles of a path , tedious but not difficult . 
He was sitting in his bedroom , one leg over the arm of the chair , and Hirst was writing a letter opposite . 
Hirst was quick to point out that all the difficulties remained . 
For instance , here are two women you've never seen . 
Suppose one of them suffers from mountain sickness , as my sister does , and the other Oh , the women are for you , Hewet interrupted . 
I asked them solely for your benefit . 
What you want , Hirst , you know , is the society of young women of your own age . 
You don't know how to get on with women , which is a great defect , considering that half the world consists of women . 
Hirst groaned that he was quite aware of that . 
But Hewet's complacency was a little chilled as he walked with Hirst to the place where a general meeting had been appointed . 
He wondered why on earth he had asked these people , and what one really expected to get from bunching human beings up together . 
Cows , he reflected , draw together in a field ships in a calm and we're just the same when we've nothing else to do . 
He jumped over the stream Hirst went round and joined him , remarking that he had long ceased to look for the reason of any human action . 
Half a mile further , they came to a group of plane trees and the salmon pink farmhouse standing by the stream which had been chosen as meeting place . 
It was a shady spot , lying conveniently just where the hill sprung out from the flat . 
As they entered the shady place , Helen looked up and then held out her hand . 
I must introduce myself , she said . 
Having shaken hands , she said , That's my niece . 
She held out her hand , but withdrew it . 
It's all wet , she said . 
Scarcely had they spoken , when the first carriage drew up . 
The donkeys were quickly jerked into attention , and the second carriage arrived . 
By degrees the grove filled with people the Elliots , the Thornburys , Mr. Venning and Susan , Miss Allan , Evelyn Murgatroyd , and Mr. Perrott . 
Mr. Hirst acted the part of hoarse energetic sheep dog . 
By means of a few words of caustic Latin he had the animals marshalled , and by inclining a sharp shoulder he lifted the ladies . 
What Hewet fails to understand , he remarked , is that we must break the back of the ascent before midday . 
He was assisting a young lady , by name Evelyn Murgatroyd , as he spoke . 
She rose light as a bubble to her seat . 
Ride with me , she commanded and , as soon as Hirst had swung himself across a mule , the two started , leading the cavalcade . 
You're not to call me Miss Murgatroyd . 
I hate it , she said . 
I like that , said Evelyn . 
And what's your friend's name ? His initials being R. S. T. , we call him Monk , said Hirst . 
Oh , you're all too clever , she said . 
Which way ? Pick me a branch . 
She gave her donkey a sharp cut with a switch and started forward . 
The full and romantic career of Evelyn Murgatroyd is best hit off by her own words , Call me Evelyn and I'll call you St . 
The cavalcade wound on like a jointed caterpillar , tufted with the white parasols of the ladies , and the panama hats of the gentlemen . 
At one point where the ground rose sharply , Evelyn M. jumped off , threw her reins to the native boy , and adjured St . 
John Hirst to dismount too . 
Their example was followed by those who felt the need of stretching . 
I don't see any need to get off , said Miss Allan to Mrs. Elliot just behind her , considering the difficulty I had getting on . 
These little donkeys stand anything , n'est ce pas ? Mrs. Elliot addressed the guide , who obligingly bowed his head . 
Flowers , said Helen , stooping to pick the lovely little bright flowers which grew separately here and there . 
You pinch their leaves and then they smell , she said , laying one on Miss Allan's knee . 
Haven't we met before ? asked Miss Allan , looking at her . 
I was taking it for granted , Helen laughed , for in the confusion of meeting they had not been introduced . 
How sensible ! chirped Mrs. Elliot . 
That's just what one would always like only unfortunately it's not possible . 
Not possible ? said Helen . 
Higher and higher they went , becoming separated from the world . 
The world , when they turned to look back , flattened itself out , and was marked with squares of thin green and grey . 
Towns are very small , Rachel remarked , obscuring the whole of Santa Marina and its suburbs with one hand . 
The sea filled in all the angles of the coast smoothly , breaking in a white frill , and here and there ships were set firmly in the blue . 
The sea was stained with purple and green blots , and there was a glittering line upon the rim where it met the sky . 
The air was very clear and silent save for the sharp noise of grasshoppers and the hum of bees , which sounded loud in the ear as they shot past and vanished . 
The party halted and sat for a time in a quarry on the hillside . 
Amazingly clear , exclaimed St . 
John , identifying one cleft in the land after another . 
Evelyn M. sat beside him , propping her chin on her hand . 
She surveyed the view with a certain look of triumph . 
D'you think Garibaldi was ever up here ? she asked Mr. Hirst . 
Fighting revolution , she said , still gazing at the doomed city . 
You only care for books , I know . 
You're quite wrong , said St . 
Explain , she urged , for there were no guns to be aimed at bodies , and she turned to another kind of warfare . 
What do I care for ? People , he said . 
Well , I am surprised ! she exclaimed . 
You look so awfully serious . 
Do let's be friends and tell each other what we're like . 
I hate being cautious , don't you ? But St . 
John was decidedly cautious , as she could see by the sudden constriction of his lips , and had no intention of revealing his soul to a young lady . 
The ass is eating my hat , he remarked , and stretched out for it instead of answering her . 
Evelyn blushed very slightly and then turned with some impetuosity upon Mr. Perrott , and when they mounted again it was Mr. Perrott who lifted her to her seat . 
The midday sun which Hirst had foretold was beginning to beat down hotly . 
The higher they got the more of the sky appeared , until the mountain was only a small tent of earth against an enormous blue background . 
The English fell silent the natives who walked beside the donkeys broke into queer wavering songs and tossed jokes from one to the other . 
The way grew very steep , and each rider kept his eyes fixed on the hobbling curved form of the rider and donkey directly in front of him . 
Rather more strain was being put upon their bodies than is quite legitimate in a party of pleasure , and Hewet overheard one or two slightly grumbling remarks . 
Expeditions in such heat are perhaps a little unwise , Mrs. Elliot murmured to Miss Allan . 
The vivacious white figure rode well in front she had somehow possessed herself of a leafy branch and wore it round her hat like a garland . 
They went on for a few minutes in silence . 
The view will be wonderful , Hewet assured them , turning round in his saddle and smiling encouragement . 
Rachel caught his eye and smiled too . 
They struggled on for some time longer , nothing being heard but the clatter of hooves striving on the loose stones . 
A little to the left of them was a low ruined wall , the stump of an Elizabethan watch tower . 
One after another they came out on the flat space at the top and stood overcome with wonder . 
Before them they beheld an immense space grey sands running into forest , and forest merging in mountains , and mountains washed by air , the infinite distances of South America . 
A river ran across the plain , as flat as the land , and appearing quite as stationary . 
The effect of so much space was at first rather chilling . 
They felt themselves very small , and for some time no one said anything . 
Then Evelyn exclaimed , Splendid ! She took hold of the hand that was next her it chanced to be Miss Allan's hand . 
North South East West , said Miss Allan , jerking her head slightly towards the points of the compass . 
Hewet , who had gone a little in front , looked up at his guests as if to justify himself for having brought them . 
He observed how strangely the people standing in a row with their figures bent slightly forward and their clothes plastered by the wind to the shape of their bodies resembled naked statues . 
On their pedestal of earth they looked unfamiliar and noble , but in another moment they had broken their rank , and he had to see to the laying out of food . 
Hirst came to his help , and they handed packets of chicken and bread from one to another . 
John gave Helen her packet she looked him full in the face and said Do you remember two women ? He looked at her sharply . 
I do , he answered . 
So you're the two women ! Hewet exclaimed , looking from Helen to Rachel . 
Your lights tempted us , said Helen . 
We watched you playing cards , but we never knew that we were being watched . 
It was like a thing in a play , Rachel added . 
And Hirst couldn't describe you , said Hewet . 
It was certainly odd to have seen Helen and to find nothing to say about her . 
Hughling Elliot put up his eyeglass and grasped the situation . 
I don't know of anything more dreadful , he said , pulling at the joint of a chicken's leg , than being seen when one isn't conscious of it . 
One feels sure one has been caught doing something ridiculous looking at one's tongue in a hansom , for instance . 
Now the others ceased to look at the view , and drawing together sat down in a circle round the baskets . 
And yet those little looking glasses in hansoms have a fascination of their own , said Mrs. Thornbury . 
One's features look so different when one can only see a bit of them . 
There will soon be very few hansom cabs left , said Mrs. Elliot . 
And four wheeled cabs I assure you even at Oxford it's almost impossible to get a four wheeled cab . 
I wonder what happens to the horses , said Susan . 
Veal pie , said Arthur . 
It's high time that horses should become extinct anyhow , said Hirst . 
They're distressingly ugly , besides being vicious . 
When they see us falling out of aeroplanes they get some of their own back , I expect , he remarked . 
You fly ? said old Mr. Thornbury , putting on his spectacles to look at him . 
I hope to , some day , said Arthur . 
If I were a young fellow , she concluded , I should certainly qualify . 
For some reason , however , the talk did not run easily after this , and all they said was about drink and salt and the view . 
It was true , and the discovery was very welcome . 
The ants were pouring down a glacier of loose earth heaped between the stones of the ruin large brown ants with polished bodies . 
She held out one on the back of her hand for Helen to look at . 
Suppose they sting ? said Helen . 
They will not sting , but they may infest the victuals , said Miss Allan , and measures were taken at once to divert the ants from their course . 
At Hewet's suggestion it was decided to adopt the methods of modern warfare against an invading army . 
It would be no laughing matter really , said Mrs. Elliot confidentially to Mrs. Thornbury , if an ant did get between the vest and the skin . 
Nevertheless he became , for no reason at all , profoundly depressed . 
They are not satisfactory they are ignoble , he thought , surveying his guests from a little distance , where he was gathering together the plates . 
He glanced at them all , stooping and swaying and gesticulating round the table cloth . 
Yet these were the people with money , and to them rather than to others was given the management of the world . 
And he's as ugly as sin . 
For the ugliness of St . 
John Hirst , and the limitations that went with it , he made the rest in some way responsible . 
It was their fault that he had to live alone . 
Then he came to Helen , attracted to her by the sound of her laugh . 
She was laughing at Miss Allan . 
You wear combinations in this heat ? she said in a voice which was meant to be private . 
His eye fell upon Rachel . 
She was lying back rather behind the others resting on one elbow she might have been thinking precisely the same thoughts as Hewet himself . 
Her eyes were fixed rather sadly but not intently upon the row of people opposite her . 
Hewet crawled up to her on his knees , with a piece of bread in his hand . 
What are you looking at ? he asked . 
She was a little startled , but answered directly , Human beings . 
Chapter XI One after another they rose and stretched themselves , and in a few minutes divided more or less into two separate parties . 
Evelyn M. listened with her bright blue eyes fixed upon the oracles . 
How it makes one long to be a man ! she exclaimed . 
Mr. Perrott answered , surveying the plain , that a country with a future was a very fine thing . 
If I were you , said Evelyn , turning to him and drawing her glove vehemently through her fingers , I'd raise a troop and conquer some great territory and make it splendid . 
You'd want women for that . 
I'd love to start life from the very beginning as it ought to be nothing squalid but great halls and gardens and splendid men and women . 
I'm not a young lady , Evelyn flashed she bit her underlip . 
Just because I like splendid things you laugh at me . 
Why are there no men like Garibaldi now ? she demanded . 
Look here , said Mr. Perrott , you don't give me a chance . 
You think we ought to begin things fresh . 
But I don't see precisely conquer a territory ? They're all conquered already , aren't they ? It's not any territory in particular , Evelyn explained . 
It's the idea , don't you see ? We lead such tame lives . 
And I feel sure you've got splendid things in you . 
Hewet saw the scars and hollows in Mr. Perrott's sagacious face relax pathetically . 
The hot air danced across it , making it impossible to see the roofs of a village on the plain distinctly . 
They did not say much , but felt no constraint in being silent . 
An odd lot , aren't they ? said Arthur . 
I thought we should never get 'em all to the top . 
But I'm glad we came , by Jove ! I wouldn't have missed this for something . 
I don't like Mr. Hirst , said Susan inconsequently . 
I suppose he's very clever , but why should clever people be so I expect he's awfully nice , really , she added , instinctively qualifying what might have seemed an unkind remark . 
Hirst ? Oh , he's one of these learned chaps , said Arthur indifferently . 
He don't look as if he enjoyed it . 
You should hear him talking to Elliot . 
It's as much as I can do to follow 'em at all . 
I was never good at my books . 
With these sentences and the pauses that came between them they reached a little hillock , on the top of which grew several slim trees . 
D'you mind if we sit down here ? said Arthur , looking about him . 
It's jolly in the shade and the view They sat down , and looked straight ahead of them in silence for some time . 
But I do envy those clever chaps sometimes , Arthur remarked . 
I don't suppose they ever . 
He did not finish his sentence . 
I can't see why you should envy them , said Susan , with great sincerity . 
Odd things happen to one , said Arthur . 
Now to day , coming up that path , riding behind you , I seemed to see everything as if he paused and plucked a piece of grass up by the roots . 
He scattered the little lumps of earth which were sticking to the roots As if it had a kind of meaning . 
You've made the difference to me , he jerked out , I don't see why I shouldn't tell you . 
I've felt it ever since I knew you . 
It's because I love you . 
She was struck motionless as his speech went on , and her heart gave great separate leaps at the last words . 
She sat with her fingers curled round a stone , looking straight in front of her down the mountain over the plain . 
So then , it had actually happened to her , a proposal of marriage . 
Arthur looked round at her his face was oddly twisted . 
She was drawing her breath with such difficulty that she could hardly answer . 
He seized her in his arms again and again and again they clasped each other , murmuring inarticulately . 
Well , sighed Arthur , sinking back on the ground , that's the most wonderful thing that's ever happened to me . 
He looked as if he were trying to put things seen in a dream beside real things . 
There was a long silence . 
It's the most perfect thing in the world , Susan stated , very gently and with great conviction . 
It was no longer merely a proposal of marriage , but of marriage with Arthur , with whom she was in love . 
In the silence that followed , holding his hand tightly in hers , she prayed to God that she might make him a good wife . 
And what will Mr. Perrott say ? she asked at the end of it . 
Dear old fellow , said Arthur who , now that the first shock was over , was relaxing into an enormous sense of pleasure and contentment . 
We must be very nice to him , Susan . 
He told her how hard Perrott's life had been , and how absurdly devoted he was to Arthur himself . 
He went on to tell her about his mother , a widow lady , of strong character . 
In return Susan sketched the portraits of her own family Edith in particular , her youngest sister , whom she loved better than any one else , except you , Arthur . 
Arthur , she continued , what was it that you first liked me for ? It was a buckle you wore one night at sea , said Arthur , after due consideration . 
I remember noticing it's an absurd thing to notice ! that you didn't take peas , because I don't either . 
From this they went on to compare their more serious tastes , or rather Susan ascertained what Arthur cared about , and professed herself very fond of the same thing . 
They would live in London , perhaps have a cottage in the country near Susan's family , for they would find it strange without her at first . 
Now and then her amazing good fortune overcame her , and she turned to Arthur with an exclamation of love . 
They lay in each other's arms and had no notion that they were observed . 
Yet two figures suddenly appeared among the trees above them . 
Here's shade , began Hewet , when Rachel suddenly stopped dead . 
They saw a man and woman lying on the ground beneath them , rolling slightly this way and that as the embrace tightened and slackened . 
Nor could you tell from her expression whether she was happy , or had suffered something . 
When Arthur again turned to her , butting her as a lamb butts a ewe , Hewet and Rachel retreated without a word . 
I don't like that , said Rachel after a moment . 
I can remember not liking it either , said Hewet . 
I can remember but he changed his mind and continued in an ordinary tone of voice , Well , we may take it for granted that they're engaged . 
D'you think he'll ever fly , or will she put a stop to that ? But Rachel was still agitated she could not get away from the sight they had just seen . 
Instead of answering Hewet she persisted . 
Love's an odd thing , isn't it , making one's heart beat . 
It's so enormously important , you see , Hewet replied . 
Their lives are now changed for ever . 
And it makes one sorry for them too , Rachel continued , as though she were tracing the course of her feelings . 
I don't know either of them , but I could almost burst into tears . 
That's silly , isn't it ? Just because they're in love , said Hewet . 
Yes , he added after a moment's consideration , there's something horribly pathetic about it , I agree . 
A great encampment of tents they might be , said Hewet , looking in front of him at the mountains . 
Isn't it like a water colour too you know the way water colours dry in ridges all across the paper I've been wondering what they looked like . 
His eyes became dreamy , as though he were matching things , and reminded Rachel in their colour of the green flesh of a snail . 
She sat beside him looking at the mountains too . 
You've never told me you name , said Hewet suddenly . 
I like to know people's Christian names . 
I have an aunt called Rachel , who put the life of Father Damien into verse . 
She is a religious fanatic the result of the way she was brought up , down in Northamptonshire , never seeing a soul . 
Have you any aunts ? I live with them , said Rachel . 
And I wonder what they're doing now ? Hewet enquired . 
They are probably buying wool , Rachel determined . 
She tried to describe them . 
They are small , rather pale women , she began , very clean . 
They have an old dog , too , who will only eat the marrow out of bones . 
They are always going to church . 
They tidy their drawers a good deal . 
But here she was overcome by the difficulty of describing people . 
It's impossible to believe that it's all going on still ! she exclaimed . 
You look very comfortable ! said Helen's voice above them . 
Hirst , said Hewet , pointing at the scissorlike shadow he then rolled round to look up at them . 
There's room for us all here , he said . 
No , we didn't congratulate them , said Hewet . 
Well , said Hirst , pursing up his lips , so long as I needn't marry either of them We were very much moved , said Hewet . 
I thought you would be , said Hirst . 
Rachel was a good deal stung by his banter , which she felt to be directed equally against them both , but she could think of no repartee . 
Nothing moves Hirst , Hewet laughed he did not seem to be stung at all . 
Unless it were a transfinite number falling in love with a finite one I suppose such things do happen , even in mathematics . 
On the contrary , said Hirst with a touch of annoyance , I consider myself a person of very strong passions . 
It was clear from the way he spoke that he meant it seriously he spoke of course for the benefit of the ladies . 
By the way , Hirst , said Hewet , after a pause , I have a terrible confession to make . 
I consider that there is still a chance , Hewet urged , slapping himself to right and left , that I never did take it after all . 
He pointed to his breast . 
Thank God , Hewet exclaimed . 
I need no longer feel as though I'd murdered a child ! I should think you were always losing things , Helen remarked , looking at him meditatively . 
I don't lose things , said Hewet . 
That was the reason why Hirst refused to share a cabin with me on the voyage out . 
You came out together ? Helen enquired . 
I propose that each member of this party now gives a short biographical sketch of himself or herself , said Hirst , sitting upright . 
Miss Vinrace , you come first begin . 
Next , said Hirst , having taken in these facts he pointed at Hewet . 
I am the son of an English gentleman . 
I am twenty seven , Hewet began . 
My father was a fox hunting squire . 
He died when I was ten in the hunting field . 
I was educated at Winchester and Cambridge , which I had to leave after a time . 
I have done a good many things since Profession ? None at least Tastes ? Literary . 
Brothers and sisters ? Three sisters , no brother , and a mother . 
Is that all we're to hear about you ? said Helen . 
If I were to tell you everything she stopped and smiled . 
It would take too long , she concluded . 
I married when I was thirty , and I have two children . 
My husband is a scholar . 
And now it's your turn , she nodded at Hirst . 
You've left out a great deal , he reproved her . 
John Alaric Hirst , he began in a jaunty tone of voice . 
I'm twenty four years old . 
I'm the son of the Reverend Sidney Hirst , vicar of Great Wappyng in Norfolk . 
Oh , I got scholarships everywhere Westminster King's . 
I'm now a fellow of King's . 
Don't it sound dreary ? Parents both alive . 
Two brothers and one sister . 
I'm a very distinguished young man , he added . 
One of the three , or is it five , most distinguished men in England , Hewet remarked . 
Quite correct , said Hirst . 
That's all very interesting , said Helen after a pause . 
But of course we've left out the only questions that matter . 
For instance , are we Christians ? I am not , I am not , both the young men replied . 
I am , Rachel stated . 
You believe in a personal God ? Hirst demanded , turning round and fixing her with his eyeglasses . 
I believe I believe , Rachel stammered , I believe there are things we don't know about , and the world might change in a minute and anything appear . 
At this Helen laughed outright . 
You've never thought what you are . 
And there are lots of other questions , she continued , though perhaps we can't ask them yet . 
Although they had talked so freely they were all uncomfortably conscious that they really knew nothing about each other . 
The important questions , Hewet pondered , the really interesting ones . 
I doubt that one ever does ask them . 
Rachel , who was slow to accept the fact that only a very few things can be said even by people who know each other well , insisted on knowing what he meant . 
Whether we've ever been in love ? she enquired . 
Oh , Rachel , she cried . 
It's like having a puppy in the house having you with one a puppy that brings one's underclothes down into the hall . 
But again the sunny earth in front of them was crossed by fantastic wavering figures , the shadows of men and women . 
There they are ! exclaimed Mrs. Elliot . 
There was a touch of peevishness in her voice . 
And we've had such a hunt to find you . 
Do you know what the time is ? Mrs. Elliot and Mr. and Mrs. Thornbury now confronted them Mrs. Elliot was holding out her watch , and playfully tapping it upon the face . 
A bright crimson scarf fluttered from the top of the wall , which Mr. Perrott and Evelyn were tying to a stone as the others came up . 
There's nothing half so nice as tea ! said Mrs. Thornbury , taking her cup . 
Weren't your nurses just the same ? During this speech Susan came into the group , and sat down by Helen's side . 
A few minutes later Mr. Venning strolled up from the opposite direction . 
He was a little flushed , and in the mood to answer hilariously whatever was said to him . 
What have you been doing to that old chap's grave ? he asked , pointing to the red flag which floated from the top of the stones . 
We have tried to make him forget his misfortune in having died three hundred years ago , said Mr. Perrott . 
It would be awful to be dead ! ejaculated Evelyn M. To be dead ? said Hewet . 
I don't think it would be awful . 
It's quite easy to imagine . 
His body , lying flat among them , did for a moment suggest death . 
This is a horrible exhibition , Mr. Hewet ! cried Mrs. Thornbury . 
More cake for us ! said Arthur . 
I assure you there's nothing horrible about it , said Hewet , sitting up and laying hands upon the cake . 
It's so natural , he repeated . 
People with children should make them do that exercise every night . 
Not that I look forward to being dead . 
The antiquaries call everything a camp . 
Without cattle he was a serf , another man's man . 
His eyes slowly lost their intensity , and he muttered a few concluding words under his breath , looking curiously old and forlorn . 
Hughling Elliot , who might have been expected to engage the old gentleman in argument , was absent at the moment . 
He now came up holding out a large square of cotton upon which a fine design was printed in pleasant bright colours that made his hand look pale . 
A bargain , he announced , laying it down on the cloth . 
I've just bought it from the big man with the ear rings . 
Fine , isn't it ? It wouldn't suit every one , of course , but it's just the thing isn't it , Hilda ? for Mrs. Raymond Parry . 
Mrs. Raymond Parry ! cried Helen and Mrs. Thornbury at the same moment . 
They looked at each other as though a mist hitherto obscuring their faces had been blown away . 
Ah you have been to those wonderful parties too ? Mrs. Elliot asked with interest . 
Mrs. Parry's drawing room , though thousands of miles away , behind a vast curve of water on a tiny piece of earth , came before their eyes . 
They who had had no solidity or anchorage before seemed to be attached to it somehow , and at once grown more substantial . 
Perhaps they had been in the drawing room at the same moment perhaps they had passed each other on the stairs at any rate they knew some of the same people . 
They looked one another up and down with new interest . 
But they could do no more than look at each other , for there was no time to enjoy the fruits of the discovery . 
The donkeys were advancing , and it was advisable to begin the descent immediately , for the night fell so quickly that it would be dark before they were home again . 
Accordingly , remounting in order , they filed off down the hillside . 
Scraps of talk came floating back from one to another . 
There were jokes to begin with , and laughter some walked part of the way , and picked flowers , and sent stones bounding before them . 
Who writes the best Latin verse in your college , Hirst ? Mr. Elliot called back incongruously , and Mr. Hirst returned that he had no idea . 
Silence fell upon one , and then upon another , until they were all silent , their minds spilling out into the deep blue air . 
The way seemed shorter in the dark than in the day and soon the lights of the town were seen on the flat far beneath them . 
Another went up more quickly and then another they could almost hear it twist and roar . 
Some Saint's day , I suppose , said a voice . 
But Susan and Arthur , riding down the hill , never said a word to each other , and kept accurately apart . 
Among the plane trees they separated , bundling into carriages and driving off , without saying good night , or saying it only in a half muffled way . 
It was so late that there was no time for normal conversation between their arrival at the hotel and their retirement to bed . 
But Hirst wandered into Hewet's room with a collar in his hand . 
Well , Hewet , he remarked , on the crest of a gigantic yawn , that was a great success , I consider . 
But take care you're not landed with that young woman . 
I don't really like young women . 
Hewet was too much drugged by hours in the open air to make any reply . 
In fact every one of the party was sound asleep within ten minutes or so of each other , with the exception of Susan Warrington . 
She lay for a considerable time looking blankly at the wall opposite , her hands clasped above her heart , and her light burning by her side . 
I'm happy , I'm happy , I'm happy , she repeated . 
The advantage of a dance was that it abolished one of those long evenings which were apt to become tedious and lead to absurdly early hours in spite of bridge . 
Two or three people standing under the erect body of the stuffed leopard in the hall very soon had the matter decided . 
Evelyn slid a pace or two this way and that , and pronounced that the floor was excellent . 
Hewet made it his business to conciliate the outsiders as much as possible . 
To Hirst's theory of the invisible chalk marks he would pay no attention whatever . 
It was settled that the dance was to be on Friday , one week after the engagement , and at dinner Hewet declared himself satisfied . 
They're all coming ! he told Hirst . 
Pepper ! he called , seeing William Pepper slip past in the wake of the soup with a pamphlet beneath his arm , We're counting on you to open the ball . 
You will certainly put sleep out of the question , Pepper returned . 
You are to take the floor with Miss Allan , Hewet continued , consulting a sheet of pencilled notes . 
The dining room at this moment had a certain fantastic resemblance to a farmyard scattered with grain on which bright pigeons kept descending . 
The dinner was shorter and less formal than usual , even the waiters seeming to be affected with the general excitement . 
Ten minutes before the clock struck nine the committee made a tour through the ballroom . 
The hall , when emptied of its furniture , brilliantly lit , adorned with flowers whose scent tinged the air , presented a wonderful appearance of ethereal gaiety . 
It's like a starlit sky on an absolutely cloudless night , Hewet murmured , looking about him , at the airy empty room . 
A heavenly floor , anyhow , Evelyn added , taking a run and sliding two or three feet along . 
What about those curtains ? asked Hirst . 
The crimson curtains were drawn across the long windows . 
It's a perfect night outside . 
Yes , but curtains inspire confidence , Miss Allan decided . 
When the ball is in full swing it will be time to draw them . 
We might even open the windows a little . 
If we do it now elderly people will imagine there are draughts . 
Her wisdom had come to be recognised , and held in respect . 
Meanwhile as they stood talking , the musicians were unwrapping their instruments , and the violin was repeating again and again a note struck upon the piano . 
Everything was ready to begin . 
After a few minutes' pause , the father , the daughter , and the son in law who played the horn flourished with one accord . 
Like the rats who followed the piper , heads instantly appeared in the doorway . 
There was another flourish and then the trio dashed spontaneously into the triumphant swing of the waltz . 
It was as though the room were instantly flooded with water . 
After a moment's hesitation first one couple , then another , leapt into mid stream , and went round and round in the eddies . 
The rhythmic swish of the dancers sounded like a swirling pool . 
By degrees the room grew perceptibly hotter . 
The smell of kid gloves mingled with the strong scent of flowers . 
The eddies seemed to circle faster and faster , until the music wrought itself into a crash , ceased , and the circles were smashed into little separate bits . 
When this had happened about five times , Hirst , who leant against a window frame , like some singular gargoyle , perceived that Helen Ambrose and Rachel stood in the doorway . 
The crowd was such that they could not move , but he recognised them by a piece of Helen's shoulder and a glimpse of Rachel's head turning round . 
He made his way to them they greeted him with relief . 
We are suffering the tortures of the damned , said Helen . 
This is my idea of hell , said Rachel . 
Her eyes were bright and she looked bewildered . 
Hewet and Miss Allan , who had been waltzing somewhat laboriously , paused and greeted the newcomers . 
This is nice , said Hewet . 
But where is Mr. Ambrose ? Pindar , said Helen . 
May a married woman who was forty in October dance ? I can't stand still . 
She seemed to fade into Hewet , and they both dissolved in the crowd . 
We must follow suit , said Hirst to Rachel , and he took her resolutely by the elbow . 
Shall we stop ? said Hirst . 
Rachel gathered from his expression that he was annoyed . 
They staggered to seats in the corner , from which they had a view of the room . 
It was still surging , in waves of blue and yellow , striped by the black evening clothes of the gentlemen . 
An amazing spectacle , Hirst remarked . 
Do you dance much in London ? They were both breathing fast , and both a little excited , though each was determined not to show any excitement at all . 
Do you ? My people give a dance every Christmas . 
This isn't half a bad floor , Rachel said . 
Hirst did not attempt to answer her platitude . 
He sat quite silent , staring at the dancers . 
After three minutes the silence became so intolerable to Rachel that she was goaded to advance another commonplace about the beauty of the night . 
Was that all nonsense what you said the other day about being a Christian and having no education ? he asked . 
It was practically true , she replied . 
But I also play the piano very well , she said , better , I expect than any one in this room . 
You are the most distinguished man in England , aren't you ? she asked shyly . 
One of the three , he corrected . 
Helen whirling past here tossed a fan into Rachel's lap . 
She is very beautiful , Hirst remarked . 
Rachel was wondering whether he thought her also nice looking St . 
John was considering the immense difficulty of talking to girls who had no experience of life . 
Rachel had obviously never thought or felt or seen anything , and she might be intelligent or she might be just like all the rest . 
But Hewet's taunt rankled in his mind you don't know how to get on with women , and he was determined to profit by this opportunity . 
He glanced at her , and she seemed to him very remote and inexplicable , very young and chaste . 
He drew a sigh , and began . 
What have you read ? Just Shakespeare and the Bible ? I haven't read many classics , Rachel stated . 
She was slightly annoyed by his jaunty and rather unnatural manner , while his masculine acquirements induced her to take a very modest view of her own power . 
D'you mean to tell me you've reached the age of twenty four without reading Gibbon ? he demanded . 
Yes , I have , she answered . 
Mon Dieu ! he exclaimed , throwing out his hands . 
You must begin to morrow . 
I shall send you my copy . 
What I want to know is he looked at her critically . 
Rachel looked at him but said nothing . 
About Gibbon , he continued . 
D'you think you'll be able to appreciate him ? He's the test , of course . 
It's awfully difficult to tell about women , he continued , how much , I mean , is due to lack of training , and how much is native incapacity . 
The music was again beginning . 
Hirst's eye wandered about the room in search of Mrs. Ambrose . 
With the best will in the world he was conscious that they were not getting on well together . 
I'd like awfully to lend you books , he said , buttoning his gloves , and rising from his seat . 
I'm going to leave you now . 
He got up and left her . 
She felt herself surrounded , like a child at a party , by the faces of strangers all hostile to her , with hooked noses and sneering , indifferent eyes . 
She was by a window , she pushed it open with a jerk . 
She stepped out into the garden . 
Her eyes swam with tears of rage . 
Damn that man ! she exclaimed , having acquired some of Helen's words . 
Damn his insolence ! She stood in the middle of the pale square of light which the window she had opened threw upon the grass . 
The forms of great black trees rose massively in front of her . 
She stood still , looking at them , shivering slightly with anger and excitement . 
She heard the trampling and swinging of the dancers behind her , and the rhythmic sway of the waltz music . 
There are trees , she said aloud . 
Would the trees make up for St . 
Miss Vinrace , is it ? said Hewet , peering at her . 
You were dancing with Hirst ? He's made me furious ! she cried vehemently . 
No one's any right to be insolent ! Insolent ? Hewet repeated , taking his cigar from his mouth in surprise . 
Hirst insolent ? It's insolent to said Rachel , and stopped . 
She did not know exactly why she had been made so angry . 
With a great effort she pulled herself together . 
Oh , well , she added , the vision of Helen and her mockery before her , I dare say I'm a fool . 
She made as though she were going back into the ballroom , but Hewet stopped her . 
Please explain to me , he said . 
I feel sure Hirst didn't mean to hurt you . 
When Rachel tried to explain , she found it very difficult . 
Pacing up and down the terrace beside Hewet she said bitterly It's no good we should live separate we cannot understand each other we only bring out what's worst . 
Hewet brushed aside her generalisation as to the natures of the two sexes , for such generalisations bored him and seemed to him generally untrue . 
Now you'll hate him , he said , which is wrong . 
Poor old Hirst he can't help his method . 
And really , Miss Vinrace , he was doing his best he was paying you a compliment he was trying he was trying he could not finish for the laughter that overcame him . 
Rachel veered round suddenly and laughed out too . 
She saw that there was something ridiculous about Hirst , and perhaps about herself . 
It's his way of making friends , I suppose , she laughed . 
Well I shall do my part . 
I shall begin 'Ugly in body , repulsive in mind as you are , Mr. Hirst Hear , hear ! cried Hewet . 
That's the way to treat him . 
You see , Miss Vinrace , you must make allowances for Hirst . 
You can't expect him to be at his best in a ballroom . 
He wants a cosy , smoky , masculine place , where he can stretch his legs out , and only speak when he's got something to say . 
For myself , I find it rather dreary . 
But I do respect it . 
They're all so much in earnest . 
They do take the serious things very seriously . 
The description of Hirst's way of life interested Rachel so much that she almost forgot her private grudge against him , and her respect revived . 
They are really very clever then ? she asked . 
So far as brains go I think it's true what he said the other day they're the cleverest people in England . 
But you ought to take him in hand , he added . 
There's a great deal more in him than's ever been got at . 
He wants some one to laugh at him . 
They stopped to look in at the drawing room , and perceived Mr. Pepper writing alone at a table . 
There's Pepper writing to his aunt , said Hewet . 
She must be a very remarkable old lady , eighty five he tells me , and he takes her for walking tours in the New Forest . 
Pepper ! he cried , rapping on the window . 
Go and do your duty . 
When they came to the windows of the ballroom , the swing of the dancers and the lilt of the music was irresistible . 
Shall we ? said Hewet , and they clasped hands and swept off magnificently into the great swirling pool . 
So that when they joined hands in the dance they felt more at their ease than is usual . 
It was midnight and the dance was now at its height . 
Servants were peeping in at the windows the garden was sprinkled with the white shapes of couples sitting out . 
Mrs. Thornbury and Mrs. Elliot sat side by side under a palm tree , holding fans , handkerchiefs , and brooches deposited in their laps by flushed maidens . 
Miss Warrington does look happy , said Mrs. Elliot they both smiled they both sighed . 
He has a great deal of character , said Mrs. Thornbury , alluding to Arthur . 
And character is what one wants , said Mrs. Elliot . 
Now that young man is clever enough , she added , nodding at Hirst , who came past with Miss Allan on his arm . 
He does not look strong , said Mrs. Thornbury . 
His complexion is not good . 
Shall I tear it off ? she asked , for Rachel had stopped , conscious of a long strip trailing behind her . 
I hope you are enjoying yourselves ? Hewet asked the ladies . 
This is a very familiar position for me ! smiled Mrs. Thornbury . 
I have brought out five daughters and they all loved dancing ! You love it too , Miss Vinrace ? she asked , looking at Rachel with maternal eyes . 
I know I did when I was your age . 
They seem to find a great deal to say to each other , said Mrs. Elliot , looking significantly at the backs of the couple as they turned away . 
Did you notice at the picnic ? He was the only person who could make her utter . 
Her father is a very interesting man , said Mrs. Thornbury . 
He has one of the largest shipping businesses in Hull . 
He made a very able reply , you remember , to Mr. Asquith at the last election . 
It is so interesting to find that a man of his experience is a strong Protectionist . 
She would have liked to discuss politics , which interested her more than personalities , but Mrs. Elliot would only talk about the Empire in a less abstract form . 
I hear there are dreadful accounts from England about the rats , she said . 
A sister in law , who lives at Norwich , tells me it has been quite unsafe to order poultry . 
It attacks the rats , and through them other creatures . 
And the local authorities are not taking proper steps ? asked Mrs. Thornbury . 
That she does not say . 
But she describes the attitude of the educated people who should know better as callous in the extreme . 
Mrs. Elliot , brought back to the consideration of her own delicacy , here sighed . 
A very animated face , said Mrs. Thornbury , looking at Evelyn M. who had stopped near them to pin tight a scarlet flower at her breast . 
It would not stay , and , with a spirited gesture of impatience , she thrust it into her partner's button hole . 
He was a tall melancholy youth , who received the gift as a knight might receive his lady's token . 
Bursting out of the crowd , Helen approached them , and took a vacant chair . 
May I sit by you ? she said , smiling and breathing fast . 
I suppose I ought to be ashamed of myself , she went on , sitting down , at my age . 
Her beauty , now that she was flushed and animated , was more expansive than usual , and both the ladies felt the same desire to touch her . 
I am enjoying myself , she panted . 
Movement isn't it amazing ? I have always heard that nothing comes up to dancing if one is a good dancer , said Mrs. Thornbury , looking at her with a smile . 
Helen swayed slightly as if she sat on wires . 
I could dance for ever ! she said . 
They ought to let themselves go more ! she exclaimed . 
They ought to leap and swing . 
Look ! How they mince ! Have you seen those wonderful Russian dancers ? began Mrs. Elliot . 
But Helen saw her partner coming and rose as the moon rises . 
Directly Helen was left alone for a minute she was joined by St . 
John Hirst , who had been watching for an opportunity . 
Should you mind sitting out with me ? he asked . 
I'm quite incapable of dancing . 
He piloted Helen to a corner which was supplied with two arm chairs , and thus enjoyed the advantage of semi privacy . 
They sat down , and for a few minutes Helen was too much under the influence of dancing to speak . 
Astonishing ! she exclaimed at last . 
She had the face of an impertinent but jolly little pig , mottled red under a dusting of powder . 
John could not join in Helen's laughter . 
It makes me sick , he declared . 
The whole thing makes me sick . 
Consider the minds of those people their feelings . 
Don't you agree ? I always make a vow never to go to another party of any description , Helen replied , and I always break it . 
She leant back in her chair and looked laughingly at the young man . 
She could see that he was genuinely cross , if at the same time slightly excited . 
However , he said , resuming his jaunty tone , I suppose one must just make up one's mind to it . 
To what ? There never will be more than five people in the world worth talking to . 
Slowly the flush and sparkle in Helen's face died away , and she looked as quiet and as observant as usual . 
Five people ? she remarked . 
I should say there were more than five . 
You've been very fortunate , then , said Hirst . 
Or perhaps I've been very unfortunate . 
Should you say I was a difficult kind of person to get on with ? he asked sharply . 
Most clever people are when they're young , Helen replied . 
And of course I am immensely clever , said Hirst . 
I'm infinitely cleverer than Hewet . 
It's quite possible , he continued in his curiously impersonal manner , that I'm going to be one of the people who really matter . 
That's utterly different from being clever , though one can't expect one's family to see it , he added bitterly . 
Helen thought herself justified in asking , Do you find your family difficult to get on with ? Intolerable . 
They want me to be a peer and a privy councillor . 
I've come out here partly in order to settle the matter . 
It's got to be settled . 
Either I must go to the bar , or I must stay on in Cambridge . 
Of course , there are obvious drawbacks to each , but the arguments certainly do seem to me in favour of Cambridge . 
This kind of thing ! he waved his hand at the crowded ballroom . 
I'm conscious of great powers of affection too . 
I'm not susceptible , of course , in the way Hewet is . 
I'm very fond of a few people . 
I think , for example , that there's something to be said for my mother , though she is in many ways so deplorable . 
At Cambridge , of course , I should inevitably become the most important man in the place , but there are other reasons why I dread Cambridge he ceased . 
Are you finding me a dreadful bore ? he asked . 
He changed curiously from a friend confiding in a friend to a conventional young man at a party . 
Not in the least , said Helen . 
I like it very much . 
I'm very fond of Hewet , but he hasn't the remotest idea what I'm like . 
You're the only woman I've ever met who seems to have the faintest conception of what I mean when I say a thing . 
She suspected that he was not happy , and was sufficiently feminine to wish to receive confidences . 
I'm very old , she sighed . 
The odd thing is that I don't find you old at all , he replied . 
I feel as though we were exactly the same age . 
In spite of his certainty a slight redness came into his face as he spoke the last two words . 
Thank God ! he exclaimed . 
Now we can behave like civilised human beings . 
In five minutes he was telling her the history of his life . 
In the doorway they met Rachel , going up to dance again with Arthur Venning . 
She was flushed and looked very happy , and Helen was struck by the fact that in this mood she was certainly more attractive than the generality of young women . 
She had never noticed it so clearly before . 
Enjoying yourself ? she asked , as they stopped for a second . 
Miss Vinrace , Arthur answered for her , has just made a confession she'd no idea that dances could be so delightful . 
I've changed my view of life completely ! You don't say so ! Helen mocked . 
That's typical of Rachel , she said . 
She changes her view of life about every other day . 
I've been doing what I can but I'm too old , and I'm a woman . 
I rather doubt that it was successful . 
She seems to me so very young and inexperienced . 
I have promised to lend her Gibbon . 
It's not Gibbon exactly , Helen pondered . 
It's so much more beautiful than the pretences always more interesting always better , I should say , than that kind of thing . 
She nodded her head at the supper party . 
He sometimes thought that almost everything was due to education . 
In the ballroom , meanwhile , the dancers were being formed into squares for the lancers . 
Arthur and Rachel , Susan and Hewet , Miss Allan and Hughling Elliot found themselves together . 
Miss Allan looked at her watch . 
Half past one , she stated . 
And I have to despatch Alexander Pope to morrow . 
Pope ! snorted Mr. Elliot . 
It was one of Mr. Elliot's affectations that nothing in the world could compare with the delights of dancing nothing in the world was so tedious as literature . 
It's a question of bread and butter , said Miss Allan calmly . 
However , they seem to expect me . 
She took up her position and pointed a square black toe . 
Mr. Hewet , you bow to me . 
It was evident at once that Miss Allan was the only one of them who had a thoroughly sound knowledge of the figures of the dance . 
After the lancers there was a waltz after the waltz a polka and then a terrible thing happened the music , which had been sounding regularly with five minute pauses , stopped suddenly . 
The lady with the great dark eyes began to swathe her violin in silk , and the gentleman placed his horn carefully in its case . 
They were surrounded by couples imploring them in English , in French , in Spanish , of one more dance , one only it was still early . 
But the old man at the piano merely exhibited his watch and shook his head . 
He turned up the collar of his coat and produced a red silk muffler , which completely dashed his festive appearance . 
Rachel was one of those who had begged them to continue . 
When they refused she began turning over the sheets of dance music which lay upon the piano . 
As very soon she had played the only pieces of dance music she could remember , she went on to play an air from a sonata by Mozart . 
But that's not a dance , said some one pausing by the piano . 
It is , she replied , emphatically nodding her head . 
Sure of her melody she marked the rhythm boldly so as to simplify the way . 
This is the dance for people who don't know how to dance ! she cried . 
The tune changed to a minuet St . 
The tune marched and Miss Allen advanced with skirts extended and bowed profoundly to the engaged pair . 
Once their feet fell in with the rhythm they showed a complete lack of selfconsciousness . 
By degrees every person in the room was tripping and turning in pairs or alone . 
As for Mr. and Mrs. Elliot , they gallopaded round and round the room with such impetuosity that the other dancers shivered at their approach . 
Some people were heard to criticise the performance as a romp to others it was the most enjoyable part of the evening . 
Now for the great round dance ! Hewet shouted . 
Yes there was the dawn . 
While they had been dancing the night had passed , and it had come . 
The dancers came crowding to the windows , pushed them open , and here and there ventured a foot upon the grass . 
How silly the poor old lights look ! said Evelyn M. in a curiously subdued tone of voice . 
And ourselves it isn't becoming . 
It was true the untidy hair , and the green and yellow gems , which had seemed so festive half an hour ago , now looked cheap and slovenly . 
Rachel , though robbed of her audience , had gone on playing to herself . 
As they sat and listened , their nerves were quieted the heat and soreness of their lips , the result of incessant talking and laughing , was smoothed away . 
They sat very still as if they saw a building with spaces and columns succeeding each other rising in the empty space . 
Then they began to see themselves and their lives , and the whole of human life advancing very nobly under the direction of the music . 
They felt themselves ennobled , and when Rachel stopped playing they desired nothing but sleep . 
I think this has been the happiest night of my life ! she exclaimed . 
I do adore music , she said , as she thanked Rachel . 
It just seems to say all the things one can't say oneself . 
Every one's been so kind so very kind , she said . 
Then she too went to bed . 
The party having ended in the very abrupt way in which parties do end , Helen and Rachel stood by the door with their cloaks on , looking for a carriage . 
I suppose you realise that there are no carriages left ? said St . 
John , who had been out to look . 
Oh , no , said Helen we shall walk . 
May we come too ? Hewet asked . 
We can't go to bed . 
That's not a light burning , is it ? Helen asked anxiously . 
It's the sun , said St . 
The upper windows had each a spot of gold on them . 
I was afraid it was my husband , still reading Greek , she said . 
All this time he's been editing Pindar . 
They passed through the town and turned up the steep road , which was perfectly clear , though still unbordered by shadows . 
When they came to the high yellow wall , where the lane turned off from the road , Helen was for dismissing the two young men . 
You've come far enough , she said . 
But they seemed unwilling to move . 
Let's sit down a moment , said Hewet . 
He spread his coat on the ground . 
Let's sit down and consider . 
They sat down and looked out over the bay it was very still , the sea was rippling faintly , and lines of green and blue were beginning to stripe it . 
Rachel occupied herself in collecting one grey stone after another and building them into a little cairn she did it very quietly and carefully . 
And so you've changed your view of life , Rachel ? said Helen . 
Rachel added another stone and yawned . 
I don't remember , she said , I feel like a fish at the bottom of the sea . 
None of these people possessed any power to frighten her out here in the dawn , and she felt perfectly familiar even with Mr. Hirst . 
My brain , on the contrary , said Hirst , is in a condition of abnormal activity . 
He sat in his favourite position with his arms binding his legs together and his chin resting on the top of his knees . 
I see through everything absolutely everything . 
Life has no more mysteries for me . 
He spoke with conviction , but did not appear to wish for an answer . 
Near though they sat , and familiar though they felt , they seemed mere shadows to each other . 
I have a key , said Hirst cryptically . 
His chin was still upon his knees and his eyes fixed in front of him . 
Then Helen rose and bade them good night . 
But , she said , remember that you've got to come and see us . 
They did not wish to share their impressions . 
They returned to the hotel in time for breakfast . 
On the morning after the dance , however , Rachel came into her uncle's room and hailed him twice , Uncle Ridley , before he paid her any attention . 
At length he looked over his spectacles . 
I want a book , she replied . 
Gibbon's History of the Roman Empire . 
May I have it ? She watched the lines on her uncle's face gradually rearrange themselves at her question . 
It had been smooth as a mask before she spoke . 
Please say that again , said her uncle , either because he had not heard or because he had not understood . 
She repeated the same words and reddened slightly as she did so . 
Gibbon ! What on earth d'you want him for ? he enquired . 
Somebody advised me to read it , Rachel stammered . 
But I don't travel about with a miscellaneous collection of eighteenth century historians ! her uncle exclaimed . 
Gibbon ! Ten big volumes at least . 
Rachel said that she was sorry to interrupt , and was turning to go . 
Stop ! cried her uncle . 
He put down his pipe , placed his book on one side , and rose and led her slowly round the room , holding her by the arm . 
Plato , he said , laying one finger on the first of a row of small dark books , and Jorrocks next door , which is wrong . 
You don't care for German commentators , I presume . 
You read French ? You should read Balzac . 
Then we come to Wordsworth and Coleridge , Pope , Johnson , Addison , Wordsworth , Shelley , Keats . 
One thing leads to another . 
Why is Marlowe here ? Mrs. Chailey , I presume . 
He looked at her very keenly again . 
Another young man at the dance ? No. That was Mr. Dalloway , she confessed . 
Good Lord ! he flung back his head in recollection of Mr. Dalloway . 
The address was written in a small strong hand unknown to her , and the note , which had no beginning , ran I send the first volume of Gibbon as I promised . 
Personally I find little to be said for the moderns , but I'm going to send you Wedekind when I've done him . 
Donne ? Have you read Webster and all that set ? I envy you reading them for the first time . 
Completely exhausted after last night . 
And you ? The flourish of initials which she took to be St . 
J. A. H. , wound up the letter . 
She was very much flattered that Mr. Hirst should have remembered her , and fulfilled his promise so quickly . 
It was too hot for climbing hills , but along the valley there were trees and a grass path running by the river bed . 
Save for a thread of water at the bottom , the river was merely a deep channel of dry yellow stones . 
On the bank grew those trees which Helen had said it was worth the voyage out merely to see . 
April had burst their buds , and they bore large blossoms among their glossy green leaves with petals of a thick wax like substance coloured an exquisite cream or pink or deep crimson . 
But filled with one of those unreasonable exultations which start generally from an unknown cause , and sweep whole countries and skies into their embrace , she walked without seeing . 
The night was encroaching upon the day . 
Her ears hummed with the tunes she had played the night before she sang , and the singing made her walk faster and faster . 
She did not see distinctly where she was going , the trees and the landscape appearing only as masses of green and blue , with an occasional space of differently coloured sky . 
The constraint of being among strangers in a long silk dress made it unusually exciting to stride thus alone . 
It was an ordinary tree , but to her it appeared so strange that it might have been the only tree in the world . 
She laid them side by side , flower to flower and stalk to stalk , caressing them for walking alone . 
Flowers and even pebbles in the earth had their own life and disposition , and brought back the feelings of a child to whom they were companions . 
Looking up , her eye was caught by the line of the mountains flying out energetically across the sky like the lash of a curling whip . 
She looked at the pale distant sky , and the high bare places on the mountain tops lying exposed to the sun . 
They marched near a thousand miles to the south of the tropic but the heat of the climate soon repelled the invaders and protected the unwarlike natives of those sequestered regions . 
The northern countries of Europe scarcely deserved the expense and labour of conquest . 
The forests and morasses of Germany were filled with a hardy race of barbarians , who despised life when it was separated from freedom . 
Never had any words been so vivid and so beautiful Arabia Felix Aethiopia . 
But those were not more noble than the others , hardy barbarians , forests , and morasses . 
She then rose again and walked on . 
Slowly her mind became less confused and sought the origins of her exaltation , which were twofold and could be limited by an effort to the persons of Mr. Hirst and Mr. Hewet . 
Any clear analysis of them was impossible owing to the haze of wonder in which they were enveloped . 
From them all life seemed to radiate the very words of books were steeped in radiance . 
She was no longer able to juggle with several ideas , but must deal with the most persistent , and a kind of melancholy replaced her excitement . 
She sank down on to the earth clasping her knees together , and looking blankly in front of her . 
For some time she observed a great yellow butterfly , which was opening and closing its wings very slowly on a little flat stone . 
What is it to be in love ? she demanded , after a long silence each word as it came into being seemed to shove itself out into an unknown sea . 
Hypnotised by the wings of the butterfly , and awed by the discovery of a terrible possibility in life , she sat for some time longer . 
When the butterfly flew away , she rose , and with her two books beneath her arm returned home again , much as a soldier prepared for battle . 
Chapter XIV The sun of that same day going down , dusk was saluted as usual at the hotel by an instantaneous sparkle of electric lights . 
The hours between dinner and bedtime were always difficult enough to kill , and the night after the dance they were further tarnished by the peevishness of dissipation . 
Moreover , when the mail had been distributed half an hour ago there were no letters for either of the two young men . 
Their silence , he said , reminded him of the silence in the lion house when each beast holds a lump of raw meat in its paws . 
He was clearly oblivious of his surroundings whereupon Hirst , perceiving that Hewet's mind was a complete blank , fixed his attention more closely upon his fellow creatures . 
He was too far from them , however , to hear what they were saying , but it pleased him to construct little theories about them from their gestures and appearance . 
Mrs. Thornbury had received a great many letters . 
She was completely engrossed in them . 
Evie writes that George has gone to Glasgow . 
, though it is difficult to imagine cold weather in this heat . 
Eleanor and Roger drove over in the new trap . 
Eleanor certainly looked more like herself than I've seen her since the winter . 
, and so gets better nights . 
My hair still falls out . 
I find it on the pillow ! But I am cheered by hearing from Tottie Hall Green . 
Muriel is in Torquay enjoying herself greatly at dances . 
She is going to show her black put after all . 
The pigeons have increased terribly , just as the rabbits did five years ago . 
While she read her husband kept nodding his head very slightly , but very steadily in sign of approval . 
Near by , Miss Allan was reading her letters too . 
They were not altogether pleasant , as could be seen from the slight rigidity which came over her large fine face as she finished reading them and replaced them neatly in their envelopes . 
The lines of care and responsibility on her face made her resemble an elderly man rather than a woman . 
Emily , her sister , who was a teacher also , wrote We ought to be prepared , though I have no doubt Hubert will be more reasonable this time . 
And then went on in her sensible way to say that she was enjoying a very jolly time in the Lakes . 
They are looking exceedingly pretty just now . 
I have seldom seen the trees so forward at this time of year . 
We have taken our lunch out several days . 
Old Alice is as young as ever , and asks after every one affectionately . 
The days pass very quickly , and term will soon be here . 
Political prospects not good , I think privately , but do not like to damp Ellen's enthusiasm . 
Lloyd George has taken the Bill up , but so have many before now , and we are where we are but trust to find myself mistaken . 
Anyhow , we have our work cut out for us . 
At a little distance from Miss Allan , on a seat shaded and made semi private by a thick clump of palm trees , Arthur and Susan were reading each other's letters . 
I do hope Mr. Hutchinson will like me , Arthur , she said , looking up . 
Who's your loving Flo ? asked Arthur . 
Flo Graves the girl I told you about , who was engaged to that dreadful Mr. Vincent , said Susan . 
Is Mr. Hutchinson married ? she asked . 
Her theory , of course , had the merit of being fully supported by her own case . 
She therefore foresaw a life of far greater comfort than she had been used to , and the change had already produced a great increase of warmth in her feelings towards other people . 
Susan's engagement relieved her of the one great anxiety of her life that her son Christopher should entangle himself with his cousin . 
Now that this familiar source of interest was removed , she felt a little low and inclined to see more in Susan than she used to . 
She was thinking of this very question , revolving the figures , as she sat in her wheeled chair with a table spread with cards by her side . 
The Patience had somehow got into a muddle , and she did not like to call for Susan to help her , as Susan seemed to be busy with Arthur . 
The young are very selfish . 
If I were to die , nobody would miss me but Dakyns , and she'll be consoled by the will ! However , I've got no reason to complain . 
I can still enjoy myself . 
I'm not a burden to any one . 
I like a great many things a good deal , in spite of my legs . 
There were only two of them . 
One was her brother , who had been drowned before her eyes , the other was a girl , her greatest friend , who had died in giving birth to her first child . 
These things had happened some fifty years ago . 
They ought not to have died , she thought . 
However , they did and we selfish old creatures go on . 
Just behind the stuffed leopard Mr. Elliot was playing chess with Mr. Pepper . 
Ah yes , old Truefit , said Mr. Elliot . 
He has a son at Oxford . 
I've often stayed with them . 
It's a lovely old Jacobean house . 
Some exquisite Greuzes one or two Dutch pictures which the old boy kept in the cellars . 
Then there were stacks upon stacks of prints . 
Oh , the dirt in that house ! He was a miser , you know . 
The boy married a daughter of Lord Pinwells . 
The collecting mania tends to run in families . 
This chap collects buckles men's shoe buckles they must be , in use between the years and the dates mayn't be right , but fact's as I say . 
Your true collector always has some unaccountable fad of that kind . 
On other points he's as level headed as a breeder of shorthorns , which is what he happens to be . 
Then the Pinwells , as you probably know , have their share of eccentricity too . 
Lady Maud , for instance he was interrupted here by the necessity of considering his move , Lady Maud has a horror of cats and clergymen , and people with big front teeth . 
I've heard her shout across a table , 'Keep your mouth shut , Miss Smith they're as yellow as carrots ! across a table , mind you . 
To me she's always been civility itself . 
I've been told it's a family feud something to do with an ancestor in the reign of Charles the First . 
Yes , he continued , suffering check after check , I always like to know something of the grandmothers of our fashionable young men . 
In my opinion they preserve all that we admire in the eighteenth century , with the advantage , in the majority of cases , that they are personally clean . 
Not that one would insult old Lady Barborough by calling her clean . 
Pepper , you have me , said Mr. Elliot . 
My chess is even worse than I remembered . 
He accepted his defeat with great equanimity , because he really wished to talk . 
He drew his chair beside Mr. Wilfrid Flushing , the newcomer . 
Shams , all of them , said Mr. Flushing briefly . 
This rug , now , isn't at all bad . 
He stopped and picked up a piece of the rug at their feet . 
Not old , of course , but the design is quite in the right tradition . 
Alice , lend me your brooch . 
See the difference between the old work and the new . 
If she had listened , she might have been amused by the reference to old Lady Barborough , her great aunt , but , oblivious of her surroundings , she went on reading . 
The clock , which had been wheezing for some minutes like an old man preparing to cough , now struck nine . 
They had the appearance of crocodiles so fully gorged by their last meal that the future of the world gives them no anxiety whatever . 
When the clock struck , Hirst said Ah , the creatures begin to stir . 
He watched them raise themselves , look about them , and settle down again . 
What I abhor most of all , he concluded , is the female breast . 
Suddenly Hewet woke him up . 
How d'you know what you feel , Hirst ? Are you in love ? asked Hirst . 
He put in his eyeglass . 
Don't be a fool , said Hewet . 
Well , I'll sit down and think about it , said Hirst . 
If these people would only think about things , the world would be a far better place for us all to live in . 
Are you trying to think ? That was exactly what Hewet had been doing for the last half hour , but he did not find Hirst sympathetic at the moment . 
I shall go for a walk , he said . 
Remember we weren't in bed last night , said Hirst with a prodigious yawn . 
Hewet rose and stretched himself . 
I want to go and get a breath of air , he said . 
An unusual feeling had been bothering him all the evening and forbidding him to settle into any one train of thought . 
It was precisely as if he had been in the middle of a talk which interested him profoundly when some one came up and interrupted him . 
He could not finish the talk , and the longer he sat there the more he wanted to finish it . 
As the talk that had been interrupted was a talk with Rachel , he had to ask himself why he felt this , and why he wanted to go on talking to her . 
Hirst would merely say that he was in love with her . 
But he was not in love with her . 
There was something , of course , unusual about her she was young , inexperienced , and inquisitive , they had been more open with each other than was usually possible . 
What was she doing now ? Lying on a sofa and looking at the ceiling , perhaps . 
Therefore he exclaimed , How d'you know what you feel , Hirst ? to stop himself from thinking . 
But Hirst did not help him , and the other people with their aimless movements and their unknown lives were disturbing , so that he longed for the empty darkness . 
The first thing he looked for when he stepped out of the hall door was the light of the Ambroses' villa . 
When he had definitely decided that a certain light apart from the others higher up the hill was their light , he was considerably reassured . 
There seemed to be at once a little stability in all this incoherence . 
The booming of the sea was audible . 
The dark blue mass of the mountains rose against the paler blue of the sky . 
There was no moon , but myriads of stars , and lights were anchored up and down in the dark waves of earth all round him . 
He had meant to go back , but the single light of the Ambroses' villa had now become three separate lights , and he was tempted to go on . 
He might as well make sure that Rachel was still there . 
At the back of the house some one was rattling cans . 
He approached the front the light on the terrace showed him that the sitting rooms were on that side . 
He stood as near the light as he could by the corner of the house , the leaves of a creeper brushing his face . 
After a moment he could hear a voice . 
The voice went on steadily it was not talking , but from the continuity of the sound it was a voice reading aloud . 
He crept a little closer he crumpled the leaves together so as to stop their rustling about his ears . 
It might be Rachel's voice . 
He left the shadow and stepped into the radius of the light , and then heard a sentence spoken quite distinctly . 
The voice quickened , and the tone became conclusive rising slightly in pitch , as if these words were at the end of the chapter . 
Hewet drew back again into the shadow . 
There was a long silence . 
He could just hear chairs being moved inside . 
He had almost decided to go back , when suddenly two figures appeared at the window , not six feet from him . 
It was Maurice Fielding , of course , that your mother was engaged to , said Helen's voice . 
She spoke reflectively , looking out into the dark garden , and thinking evidently as much of the look of the night as of what she was saying . 
Hewet's heart leapt , and he noticed the fact . 
Her voice , though low , was full of surprise . 
You didn't know that ? said Helen . 
I never knew there'd been any one else , said Rachel . 
She was clearly surprised , but all they said was said low and inexpressively , because they were speaking out into the cool dark night . 
More people were in love with her than with any one I've ever known , Helen stated . 
She had that power she enjoyed things . 
She wasn't beautiful , but I was thinking of her last night at the dance . 
She got on with every kind of person , and then she made it all so amazingly funny . 
It appeared that Helen was going back into the past , choosing her words deliberately , comparing Theresa with the people she had known since Theresa died . 
That's so like Aunt Lucy and Aunt Katie , said Rachel at last . 
They always make out that she was very sad and very good . 
Then why , for goodness' sake , did they do nothing but criticize her when she was alive ? said Helen . 
Very gentle their voices sounded , as if they fell through the waves of the sea . 
If I were to die to morrow . 
The broken sentences had an extraordinary beauty and detachment in Hewet's ears , and a kind of mystery too , as though they were spoken by people in their sleep . 
No , Rachel , Helen's voice continued , I'm not going to walk in the garden it's damp it's sure to be damp besides , I see at least a dozen toads . 
Toads ? Those are stones , Helen . 
The flowers smell , Rachel replied . 
Hewet drew still farther back . 
His heart was beating very quickly . 
Apparently Rachel tried to pull Helen out on to the terrace , and helen resisted . 
There was a certain amount of scuffling , entreating , resisting , and laughter from both of them . 
Then a man's form appeared . 
Hewet could not hear what they were all saying . 
In a minute they had gone in he could hear bolts grating then there was dead silence , and all the lights went out . 
He turned away , still crumpling and uncrumpling a handful of leaves which he had torn from the wall . 
After standing still for a minute or two he turned and began to walk towards the gate . 
With the movement of his body , the excitement , the romance and the richness of life crowded into his brain . 
He shut the gate , and ran swinging from side to side down the hill , shouting any nonsense that came into his head . 
He stopped and drew a deep breath . 
The night seemed immense and hospitable , and although so dark there seemed to be things moving down there in the harbour and movement out at sea . 
He gazed until the darkness numbed him , and then he walked on quickly , still murmuring to himself . 
And I ought to be in bed , snoring and dreaming , dreaming , dreaming . 
Dreams and realities , dreams and realities , dreams and realities , he repeated all the way up the avenue , scarcely knowing what he said , until he reached the front door . 
Here he paused for a second , and collected himself before he opened the door . 
His eyes were dazed , his hands very cold , and his brain excited and yet half asleep . 
Inside the door everything was as he had left it except that the hall was now empty . 
There were the chairs turning in towards each other where people had sat talking , and the empty glasses on little tables , and the newspapers scattered on the floor . 
As he shut the door he felt as if he were enclosed in a square box , and instantly shrivelled up . 
It was all very bright and very small . 
As he fumbled vaguely among the papers he saw a figure cross the tail of his eye , coming downstairs . 
Her voice was a little unpleasant and metallic , her eyes were very bright , and she kept them fixed upon him . 
To talk to me ? he repeated . 
He yawned openly , and lit a cigarette . 
He could not believe that this was really happening to him . 
What is it ? Are you really sympathetic , or is it just a pose ? she demanded . 
It's for you to say , he replied . 
I'm interested , I think . 
He still felt numb all over and as if she was much too close to him . 
Any one can be interested ! she cried impatiently . 
Your friend Mr. Hirst's interested , I daresay . 
however , I do believe in you . 
You look as if you'd got a nice sister , somehow . 
D'you ever get into a state where you don't know your own mind ? That's the state I'm in now . 
They've put him into some beastly mining business . 
He says it's beastly I should like it , I know , but that's neither here nor there . 
And I felt awfully sorry for him , one couldn't help being sorry for him , and when he asked me to let him kiss me , I did . 
And we talked and talked . 
I daresay I was very silly , but one can't help liking people when one's sorry for them . 
I do like him most awfully She paused . 
So I gave him half a promise , and then , you see , there's Alfred Perrott . 
Oh , Perrott , said Hewet . 
We got to know each other on that picnic the other day , she continued . 
He seemed so lonely , especially as Arthur had gone off with Susan , and one couldn't help guessing what was in his mind . 
And he told me about his sister who's paralysed , poor girl , and one can see she's a great trial , though he's evidently very devoted to her . 
I must say I do admire people like that ! I don't expect you do because you're so clever . 
I think it depends what sort of person you are , said Hewet . 
Who are you , what are you you see , I know nothing about you , he continued . 
Well , I was coming to that , said Evelyn M. She continued to rest her chin on her hands and to look intently ahead of her . 
I'm the daughter of a mother and no father , if that interests you , she said . 
It's not a very nice thing to be . 
It's what often happens in the country . 
She was a farmer's daughter , and he was rather a swell the young man up at the great house . 
He never made things straight never married her though he allowed us quite a lot of money . 
His people wouldn't let him . 
Poor father ! I can't help liking him . 
Mother wasn't the sort of woman who could keep him straight , anyhow . 
He was killed in the war . 
I believe his men worshipped him . 
They say great big troopers broke down and cried over his body on the battlefield . 
I wish I'd known him . 
Mother had all the life crushed out of her . 
The world She clenched her fist . 
Oh , people can be horrid to a woman like that ! She turned upon Hewet . 
Well , she said , d'you want to know any more about me ? But you ? he asked , Who looked after you ? I've looked after myself mostly , she laughed . 
I do like people ! That's the trouble . 
What would you do if you liked two people , both of them tremendously , and you couldn't tell which most ? I should go on liking them I should wait and see . 
Why not ? But one has to make up one's mind , said Evelyn . 
Or are you one of the people who doesn't believe in marriages and all that ? Look here this isn't fair , I do all the telling , and you tell nothing . 
Perhaps you're the same as your friend she looked at him suspiciously perhaps you don't like me ? I don't know you , said Hewet . 
I know when I like a person directly I see them ! I knew I liked you the very first night at dinner . 
Oh dear , she continued impatiently , what a lot of bother would be saved if only people would say the things they think straight out ! I'm made like that . 
But don't you find it leads to difficulties ? Hewet asked . 
That's men's fault , she answered . 
They always drag it in love , I mean . 
And so you've gone on having one proposal after another , said Hewet . 
I don't suppose I've had more proposals than most women , said Evelyn , but she spoke without conviction . 
Five , six , ten ? Hewet ventured . 
Evelyn seemed to intimate that perhaps ten was the right figure , but that it really was not a high one . 
I believe you're thinking me a heartless flirt , she protested . 
But I don't care if you are . 
I don't care what any one thinks of me . 
Just because one's interested and likes to be friends with men , and talk to them as one talks to women , one's called a flirt . 
But Miss Murgatroyd I wish you'd call me Evelyn , she interrupted . 
After ten proposals do you honestly think that men are the same as women ? Honestly , honestly , how I hate that word ! It's always used by prigs , cried Evelyn . 
Honestly I think they ought to be . 
Every time one thinks it's not going to happen , and every time it does . 
The pursuit of Friendship , said Hewet . 
The title of a comedy . 
You're horrid , she cried . 
You don't care a bit really . 
You might be Mr. Hirst . 
Well , said Hewet , let's consider . 
Let us consider He paused , because for the moment he could not remember what it was that they had to consider . 
You've promised to marry both Oliver and Perrott ? he concluded . 
Not exactly promised , said Evelyn . 
I can't make up my mind which I really like best . 
Oh how I detest modern life ! she flung off . 
I really might do something . 
She reflected in silence for a minute . 
Then she said I'm afraid right down in my heart that Alfred Perrot won't do . 
He's not strong , is he ? Perhaps he couldn't cut down a tree , said Hewet . 
Have you never cared for anybody ? he asked . 
I've cared for heaps of people , but not to marry them , she said . 
I suppose I'm too fastidious . 
All my life I've wanted somebody I could look up to , somebody great and big and splendid . 
Most men are so small . 
What d'you mean by splendid ? Hewet asked . 
We don't care for people because of their qualities , he tried to explain . 
It's just them that we care for , he struck a match just that , he said , pointing to the flames . 
I see what you mean , she said , but I don't agree . 
I do know why I care for people , and I think I'm hardly ever wrong . 
I see at once what they've got in them . 
Now I think you must be rather splendid but not Mr. Hirst . 
He's not nearly so unselfish , or so sympathetic , or so big , or so understanding , Evelyn continued . 
Hewet sat silent , smoking his cigarette . 
I should hate cutting down trees , he remarked . 
I'm not trying to flirt with you , though I suppose you think I am ! Evelyn shot out . 
I'd never have come to you if I'd thought you'd merely think odious things of me ! The tears came into her eyes . 
Do you never flirt ? he asked . 
Of course I don't , she protested . 
He was very tired , and a pale waiter kept walking ostentatiously into the middle of the room and looking at them meaningly . 
They want to shut up , he said . 
My advice is that you should tell Oliver and Perrott to morrow that you've made up your mind that you don't mean to marry either of them . 
If you change your mind you can always tell them so . 
They're both sensible men they'll understand . 
And then all this bother will be over . 
But Evelyn did not move . 
She sat looking up at him with her bright eager eyes , in the depths of which he thought he detected some disappointment , or dissatisfaction . 
Good night , he said . 
There are heaps of things I want to say to you still , she said . 
And I'm going to , some time . 
I suppose you must go to bed now ? Yes , said Hewet . 
He left her still sitting by herself in the empty hall . 
Why is it that they won't be honest ? he muttered to himself as he went upstairs . 
It's white ? Or only brown ? Thus she herself murmured , examining a hair which gleamed suspiciously among the brown . 
She pulled it out and laid it on the dressing table . 
You often tell me I don't notice things , he remarked . 
Tell me if this is a white hair , then ? she replied . 
She laid the hair on his hand . 
There's not a white hair on your head , he exclaimed . 
What was that you were saying ? Helen remarked , after an interval of conversation which no third person could have understood . 
Rachel you ought to keep an eye upon Rachel , he observed significantly , and Helen , though she went on brushing her hair , looked at him . 
His observations were apt to be true . 
Young gentlemen don't interest themselves in young women's education without a motive , he remarked . 
Oh , Hirst , said Helen . 
Hirst and Hewet , they're all the same to me all covered with spots , he replied . 
He advises her to read Gibbon . 
Did you know that ? Helen did not know that , but she would not allow herself inferior to her husband in powers of observation . 
She merely said Nothing would surprise me . 
Even that dreadful flying man we met at the dance even Mr. Dalloway even I advise you to be circumspect , said Ridley . 
There's Willoughby , remember Willoughby he pointed at a letter . 
Helen looked with a sigh at an envelope which lay upon her dressing table . 
The beggars had the sense to scatter . 
The truth of it was , they saw too many people . 
And so on and so on , more conjugal talk pattering softly and unintelligibly , until they were both ready to go down to tea . 
The first thing that caught Helen's eye as she came downstairs was a carriage at the door , filled with skirts and feathers nodding on the tops of hats . 
She had only time to gain the drawing room before two names were oddly mispronounced by the Spanish maid , and Mrs. Thornbury came in slightly in advance of Mrs. Wilfrid Flushing . 
Mrs. Wilfrid Flushing , said Mrs. Thornbury , with a wave of her hand . 
A friend of our common friend Mrs. Raymond Parry . 
Mrs. Flushing shook hands energetically . 
She was a woman of forty perhaps , very well set up and erect , splendidly robust , though not as tall as the upright carriage of her body made her appear . 
She looked Helen straight in the face and said , You have a charmin' house . 
She had a strongly marked face , her eyes looked straight at you , and though naturally she was imperious in her manner she was nervous at the same time . 
Mrs. Thornbury acted as interpreter , making things smooth all round by a series of charming commonplace remarks . 
I've taken it upon myself , Mr. Ambrose , she said , to promise that you will be so kind as to give Mrs. Flushing the benefit of your experience . 
I'm sure no one here knows the country as well as you do . 
No one takes such wonderful long walks . 
No one , I'm sure , has your encyclopaedic knowledge upon every subject . 
Mr. Wilfrid Flushing is a collector . 
He has discovered really beautiful things already . 
I had no notion that the peasants were so artistic though of course in the past Not old things new things , interrupted Mrs. Flushing curtly . 
That is , if he takes my advice . 
The Ambroses had not lived for many years in London without knowing something of a good many people , by name at least , and Helen remembered hearing of the Flushings . 
Helen looked at her with interest . 
They had moved out into the garden , where the tea was laid under a tree , and Mrs. Flushing was helping herself to cherry jam . 
She had a peculiar jerking movement of the body when she spoke , which caused the canary coloured plume on her hat to jerk too . 
Her small but finely cut and vigorous features , together with the deep red of lips and cheeks , pointed to many generations of well trained and well nourished ancestors behind her . 
Nothin' that's more than twenty years old interests me , she continued . 
Mouldy old pictures , dirty old books , they stick 'em in museums when they're only fit for burnin' . 
I quite agree , Helen laughed . 
But my husband spends his life in digging up manuscripts which nobody wants . 
She was amused by Ridley's expression of startled disapproval . 
There's a clever man in London called John who paints ever so much better than the old masters , Mrs. Flushing continued . 
His pictures excite me nothin' that's old excites me . 
But even his pictures will become old , Mrs. Thornbury intervened . 
Then I'll have 'em burnt , or I'll put it in my will , said Mrs. Flushing . 
And Mrs. Flushing lived in one of the most beautiful old houses in England Chillingley , Mrs. Thornbury explained to the rest of them . 
If I'd my way I'd burn that to morrow , Mrs. Flushing laughed . 
She had a laugh like the cry of a jay , at once startling and joyless . 
What does any sane person want with those great big houses ? she demanded . 
If you go downstairs after dark you're covered with black beetles , and the electric lights always goin' out . 
What would you do if spiders came out of the tap when you turned on the hot water ? she demanded , fixing her eye on Helen . 
Mrs. Ambrose shrugged her shoulders with a smile . 
This is what I like , said Mrs. Flushing . 
She jerked her head at the Villa . 
A little house in a garden . 
I had one once in Ireland . 
One could lie in bed in the mornin' and pick roses outside the window with one's toes . 
And the gardeners , weren't they surprised ? Mrs. Thornbury enquired . 
There were no gardeners , Mrs. Flushing chuckled . 
Nobody but me and an old woman without any teeth . 
You know the poor in Ireland lose their teeth after they're twenty . 
But you wouldn't expect a politician to understand that Arthur Balfour wouldn't understand that . 
Ridley sighed that he never expected any one to understand anything , least of all politicians . 
However , he concluded , there's one advantage I find in extreme old age nothing matters a hang except one's food and one's digestion . 
All I ask is to be left alone to moulder away in solitude . 
He groaned , and with a melancholy glance laid the jam on his bread , for he felt the atmosphere of this abrupt lady distinctly unsympathetic . 
I always contradict my husband when he says that , said Mrs. Thornbury sweetly . 
You men ! Where would you be if it weren't for the women ! Read the Symposium , said Ridley grimly . 
Symposium ? cried Mrs. Flushing . 
That's Latin or Greek ? Tell me , is there a good translation ? No , said Ridley . 
You will have to learn Greek . 
Mrs. Flushing cried , Ah , ah , ah ! I'd rather break stones in the road . 
I always envy the men who break stones and sit on those nice little heaps all day wearin' spectacles . 
I'd infinitely rather break stones than clean out poultry runs , or feed the cows , or Here Rachel came up from the lower garden with a book in her hand . 
What's that book ? said Ridley , when she had shaken hands . 
It's Gibbon , said Rachel as she sat down . 
The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire ? said Mrs. Thornbury . 
A very wonderful book , I know . 
My dear father was always quoting it at us , with the result that we resolved never to read a line . 
Gibbon the historian ? enquired Mrs. Flushing . 
I connect him with some of the happiest hours of my life . 
We used to lie in bed and read Gibbon about the massacres of the Christians , I remember when we were supposed to be asleep . 
Then there were the moths tiger moths , yellow moths , and horrid cockchafers . 
Louisa , my sister , would have the window open . 
We fought every night of our lives over that window . 
Have you ever seen a moth dyin' in a night light ? she enquired . 
Again there was an interruption . 
Hewet and Hirst appeared at the drawing room window and came up to the tea table . 
She was conscious of an extraordinary intensity in everything , as though their presence stripped some cover off the surface of things but the greetings were remarkably commonplace . 
Excuse me , said Hirst , rising from his chair directly he had sat down . 
He went into the drawing room , and returned with a cushion which he placed carefully upon his seat . 
Rheumatism , he remarked , as he sat down for the second time . 
The result of the dance ? Helen enquired . 
Whenever I get at all run down I tend to be rheumatic , Hirst stated . 
He bent his wrist back sharply . 
I hear little pieces of chalk grinding together ! Rachel looked at him . 
Hewet picked up the book that lay on the ground . 
You like this ? he asked in an undertone . 
No , I don't like it , she replied . 
It goes round , round , round , like a roll of oil cloth , she hazarded . 
Surely it's the most perfect style , so far as style goes , that's ever been invented , he continued . 
Every sentence is practically perfect , and the wit Ugly in body , repulsive in mind , she thought , instead of thinking about Gibbon's style . 
Yes , but strong , searching , unyielding in mind . 
She looked at his big head , a disproportionate part of which was occupied by the forehead , and at the direct , severe eyes . 
I give you up in despair , he said . 
He meant it lightly , but she took it seriously , and believed that her value as a human being was lessened because she did not happen to admire the style of Gibbon . 
The others were talking now in a group about the native villages which Mrs. Flushing ought to visit . 
I despair too , she said impetuously . 
How are you going to judge people merely by their minds ? You agree with my spinster Aunt , I expect , said St . 
John in his jaunty manner , which was always irritating because it made the person he talked to appear unduly clumsy and in earnest . 
'Be good , sweet maid' I thought Mr. Kingsley and my Aunt were now obsolete . 
One can be very nice without having read a book , she asserted . 
Very silly and simple her words sounded , and laid her open to derision . 
Did I ever deny it ? Hirst enquired , raising his eyebrows . 
I have lived all my life with people like your Aunt , Mr. Hirst , she said , leaning forward in her chair . 
Her brown squirrel like eyes became even brighter than usual . 
They have never heard of Gibbon . 
They only care for their pheasants and their peasants . 
They are great big men who look so fine on horseback , as people must have done , I think , in the days of the great wars . 
You have never guessed , perhaps , at all the romances that go on in the heart of the country . 
There are the people , I feel , among whom Shakespeare will be born if he is ever born again . 
In those old houses , up among the Downs My Aunt , Hirst interrupted , spends her life in East Lambeth among the degraded poor . 
I only quoted my Aunt because she is inclined to persecute people she calls 'intellectual , which is what I suspect Miss Vinrace of doing . 
It's all the fashion now . 
If you're clever it's always taken for granted that you're completely without sympathy , understanding , affection all the things that really matter . 
For one thing , they're probably quite frank about their passions , which we are not . 
My father , who is a clergyman in Norfolk , says that there is hardly a squire in the country who does not But about Gibbon ? Hewet interrupted . 
The look of nervous tension which had come over every face was relaxed by the interruption . 
You find him monotonous , I suppose . 
But you know He opened the book , and began searching for passages to read aloud , and in a little time he found a good one which he considered suitable . 
But there was nothing in the world that bored Ridley more than being read aloud to , and he was besides scrupulously fastidious as to the dress and behaviour of ladies . 
Mrs. Flushing was evidently relieved by his departure . 
She puffed her cigarette , stuck her legs out , and examined Helen closely as to the character and reputation of their common friend Mrs. Raymond Parry . 
She made three or four different plans for meeting or going on an expedition , or showing Helen the things they had bought , on her way to the carriage . 
She included them all in a vague but magnificent invitation . 
As Helen returned to the garden again , Ridley's words of warning came into her head , and she hesitated a moment and looked at Rachel sitting between Hirst and Hewet . 
Hewet's voice was very pleasant . 
When he reached the end of the period Hewet stopped , and no one volunteered any criticism . 
I do adore the aristocracy ! Hirst exclaimed after a moment's pause . 
None of us would dare to behave as that woman behaves . 
What I like about them , said Helen as she sat down , is that they're so well put together . 
Naked , Mrs. Flushing would be superb . 
Dressed as she dresses , it's absurd , of course . 
A shade of depression crossed his face . 
I've never weighed more than ten stone in my life , he said , which is ridiculous , considering my height , and I've actually gone down in weight since we came here . 
I daresay that accounts for the rheumatism . 
Again he jerked his wrist back sharply , so that Helen might hear the grinding of the chalk stones . 
She could not help smiling . 
It's no laughing matter for me , I assure you , he protested . 
My mother's a chronic invalid , and I'm always expecting to be told that I've got heart disease myself . 
Rheumatism always goes to the heart in the end . 
For goodness' sake , Hirst , Hewet protested one might think you were an old cripple of eighty . 
Is any one here inclined for a walk ? he said . 
There's a magnificent walk , up behind the house . 
You come out on to a cliff and look right down into the sea . 
The rocks are all red you can see them through the water . 
Sure they weren't mermaids ? said Hirst . 
It's much too hot to climb uphill . 
He looked at Helen , who showed no signs of moving . 
Yes , it's too hot , Helen decided . 
There was a short silence . 
I'd like to come , said Rachel . 
But she might have said that anyhow , Helen thought to herself as Hewet and Rachel went away together , and Helen was left alone with St . 
He may have been satisfied , but his usual difficulty in deciding that one subject was more deserving of notice than another prevented him from speaking for some time . 
He sat staring intently at the head of a dead match , while Helen considered so it seemed from the expression of her eyes something not closely connected with the present moment . 
John exclaimed , Damn ! Damn everything ! Damn everybody ! he added . 
At Cambridge there are people to talk to . 
At Cambridge there are people to talk to , Helen echoed him , rhythmically and absent mindedly . 
She had been thinking about Rachel and which of the two young men she was likely to fall in love with , and now sitting opposite to Hirst she thought , He's ugly . 
It's a pity they're so ugly . 
And the future ? she reflected , vaguely envisaging a race of men becoming more and more like Hirst , and a race of women becoming more and more like Rachel . 
Oh no , she concluded , glancing at him , one wouldn't marry you . 
Well , then , the future of the race is in the hands of Susan and Arthur no that's dreadful . 
Of farm labourers no not of the English at all , but of Russians and Chinese . 
This train of thought did not satisfy her , and was interrupted by St . 
John , who began again I wish you knew Bennett . 
He's the greatest man in the world . 
Becoming more at ease , St . 
John dropped the concentrated abruptness of his manner , and explained that Bennett was a man who lived in an old windmill six miles out of Cambridge . 
He lived the perfect life , according to St . 
John , very lonely , very simple , caring only for the truth of things , always ready to talk , and extraordinarily modest , though his mind was of the greatest . 
Don't you think , said St . 
If Bennett had been there he'd have said exactly what he meant to say , or he'd have got up and gone . 
But there's something rather bad for the character in that I mean if one hasn't got Bennett's character . 
It's inclined to make one bitter . 
Should you say that I was bitter ? Helen did not answer , and he continued Of course I am , disgustingly bitter , and it's a beastly thing to be . 
But the worst of me is that I'm so envious . 
I can't endure people who do things better than I do perfectly absurd things too waiters balancing piles of plates even Arthur , because Susan's in love with him . 
I want people to like me , and they don't . 
It must be awfully soothing to be like you every one liking one at once . 
I assure you they don't , Helen laughed . 
They do , said Hirst with conviction . 
In the first place , you're the most beautiful woman I've ever seen in the second , you have an exceptionally nice nature . 
As if her instinct were to escape to something brightly coloured and impersonal , which she could hold in her hands , she went into the house and returned with her embroidery . 
But he was not interested in her embroidery he did not even look at it . 
About Miss Vinrace , he began , oh , look here , do let's be St . 
From her observations at tea she was inclined to doubt whether Hirst was the person to educate Rachel . 
Somewhere in the depths of her , too , she was bound to Rachel by the indestructible if inexplicable ties of sex . 
She seems vague , but she's a will of her own , she said , as if in the interval she had run through her qualities . 
Thus she merely said , Um m m to St . 
John's next remark , I shall ask her to go for a walk with me . 
Perhaps he resented this division of attention . 
He sat silent watching Helen closely . 
You're absolutely happy , he proclaimed at last . 
Yes ? Helen enquired , sticking in her needle . 
Marriage , I suppose , said St . 
Yes , said Helen , gently drawing her needle out . 
Yes , said Helen , sticking her needle in again . 
I don't know why I'm happy , she suddenly laughed , looking him full in the face . 
There was a considerable pause . 
There's an abyss between us , said St . 
His voice sounded as if it issued from the depths of a cavern in the rocks . 
You're infinitely simpler than I am . 
Women always are , of course . 
One never knows how a woman gets there . 
Supposing all the time you're thinking , 'Oh , what a morbid young man ! Helen sat and looked at him with her needle in her hand . 
From her position she saw his head in front of the dark pyramid of a magnolia tree . 
I suppose you've never paid any a compliment in the course of your life , he said irrelevantly . 
I spoil Ridley rather , Helen considered . 
I'm going to ask you point blank do you like me ? After a certain pause , she replied , Yes , certainly . 
Thank God ! he exclaimed . 
You see , he continued with emotion , I'd rather you liked me than any one I've ever met . 
What about the five philosophers ? said Helen , with a laugh , stitching firmly and swiftly at her canvas . 
I wish you'd describe them . 
Hirst had no particular wish to describe them , but when he began to consider them he found himself soothed and strengthened . 
They gave him , certainly , what no woman could give him , not Helen even . 
Warming at the thought of them , he went on to lay his case before Mrs. Ambrose . 
Should he stay on at Cambridge or should he go to the Bar ? One day he thought one thing , another day another . 
At last , without any preface , she pronounced her decision . 
Leave Cambridge and go to the Bar , she said . 
He pressed her for her reasons . 
I think you'd enjoy London more , she said . 
It did not seem a very subtle reason , but she appeared to think it sufficient . 
She looked at him against the background of flowering magnolia . 
There was something curious in the sight . 
She had noticed it half consciously , nevertheless the pattern had become part of their talk . 
She laid down her sewing , and began to walk up and down the garden , and Hirst rose too and paced by her side . 
He was rather disturbed , uncomfortable , and full of thought . 
Long thin clouds of flamingo red , with edges like the edges of curled ostrich feathers , lay up and down the sky at different altitudes . 
The roofs of the town seemed to have sunk lower than usual the cypresses appeared very black between the roofs , and the roofs themselves were brown and white . 
As usual in the evening , single cries and single bells became audible rising from beneath . 
Well , you must take the responsibility , he said . 
I've made up my mind I shall go to the Bar . 
His words were very serious , almost emotional they recalled Helen after a second's hesitation . 
I'm sure you're right , she said warmly , and shook the hand he held out . 
You'll be a great man , I'm certain . 
Then , as if to make him look at the scene , she swept her hand round the immense circumference of the view . 
It was this sea that flowed up to the mouth of the Thames and the Thames washed the roots of the city of London . 
The water was very calm rocking up and down at the base of the cliff , and so clear that one could see the red of the stones at the bottom of it . 
So it had been at the birth of the world , and so it had remained ever since . 
Probably no human being had ever broken that water with boat or with body . 
Obeying some impulse , she determined to mar that eternity of peace , and threw the largest pebble she could find . 
It struck the water , and the ripples spread out and out . 
It's wonderful , he said , as they widened and ceased . 
The freshness and the newness seemed to him wonderful . 
He threw a pebble next . 
There was scarcely any sound . 
But England , Rachel murmured in the absorbed tone of one whose eyes are concentrated upon some sight . 
What d'you want with England ? My friends chiefly , he said , and all the things one does . 
He could look at Rachel without her noticing it . 
She was still absorbed in the water and the exquisitely pleasant sensations which a little depth of the sea washing over rocks suggests . 
He noticed that she was wearing a dress of deep blue colour , made of a soft thin cotton stuff , which clung to the shape of her body . 
It was a body with the angles and hollows of a young woman's body not yet developed , but in no way distorted , and thus interesting and even lovable . 
Raising his eyes Hewet observed her head she had taken her hat off , and the face rested on her hand . 
As she looked down into the sea , her lips were slightly parted . 
The expression was one of childlike intentness , as if she were watching for a fish to swim past over the clear red rocks . 
Nevertheless her twenty four years of life had given her a look of reserve . 
Her hand , which lay on the ground , the fingers curling slightly in , was well shaped and competent the square tipped and nervous fingers were the fingers of a musician . 
With something like anguish Hewet realised that , far from being unattractive , her body was very attractive to him . 
Her eyes were full of eagerness and interest . 
You write novels ? she asked . 
For the moment he could not think what he was saying . 
He was overcome with the desire to hold her in his arms . 
Oh yes , he said . 
That is , I want to write them . 
She would not take her large grey eyes off his face . 
Why do you write novels ? You ought to write music . 
Music , you see she shifted her eyes , and became less desirable as her brain began to work , inflicting a certain change upon her face music goes straight for things . 
It says all there is to say at once . 
With writing it seems to me there's so much she paused for an expression , and rubbed her fingers in the earth scratching on the matchbox . 
I shan't lend you books , he remarked . 
She enclosed a circle in the air with her hands . 
She realised with a great sense of comfort who easily she could talk to Hewet , those thorns or ragged corners which tear the surface of some relationships being smoothed away . 
So I observed , said Hewet . 
That's a thing that never ceases to amaze me . 
He had recovered his composure to such an extent that he could light and smoke a cigarette , and feeling her ease , became happy and easy himself . 
The respect that women , even well educated , very able women , have for men , he went on . 
I believe we must have the sort of power over you that we're said to have over horses . 
They see us three times as big as we are or they'd never obey us . 
For that very reason , I'm inclined to doubt that you'll ever do anything even when you have the vote . 
He looked at her reflectively . 
She appeared very smooth and sensitive and young . 
It'll take at least six generations before you're sufficiently thick skinned to go into law courts and business offices . 
And meanwhile there are the women in the background . 
Do you really think that the vote will do you any good ? The vote ? Rachel repeated . 
Not to me , she said . 
But I play the piano . 
Are men really like that ? she asked , returning to the question that interested her . 
I'm not afraid of you . 
She looked at him easily . 
Oh , I'm different , Hewet replied . 
I've got between six and seven hundred a year of my own . 
And then no one takes a novelist seriously , thank heavens . 
I assure you , he said , not a day's passed since we came here without a discussion as to whether he's to stay on at Cambridge or to go to the Bar . 
It's his career his sacred career . 
And if I've heard it twenty times , I'm sure his mother and sister have heard it five hundred times . 
Can't you imagine the family conclaves , and the sister told to run out and feed the rabbits because St . 
John must have the school room to himself 'St . 
John wants his tea brought to him . 
Don't you know the kind of thing ? No wonder that St . 
John thinks it a matter of considerable importance . 
He has to earn his living . 
John's sister Hewet puffed in silence . 
No one takes her seriously , poor dear . 
I've fed rabbits for twenty four years it seems odd now . 
She looked back meditatively upon her past life . 
How do you spend your day ? he asked . 
When she thought of their day it seemed to her it was cut into four pieces by their meals . 
These divisions were absolutely rigid , the contents of the day having to accommodate themselves within the four rigid bars . 
Looking back at her life , that was what she saw . 
Breakfast nine luncheon one tea five dinner eight , she said . 
Well , said Hewet , what d'you do in the morning ? I need to play the piano for hours and hours . 
And after luncheon ? Then I went shopping with one of my aunts . 
Or we went to see some one , or we took a message or we did something that had to be done the taps might be leaking . 
They visit the poor a good deal old char women with bad legs , women who want tickets for hospitals . 
Or I used to walk in the park by myself . 
If father was at home we had friends of his to dinner , and about once a month we went up to the play . 
Every now and then we dined out sometimes I went to a dance in London , but that was difficult because of getting back . 
The people we saw were old family friends , and relations , but we didn't see many people . 
There was the clergyman , Mr. Pepper , and the Hunts . 
Father generally wanted to be quiet when he came home , because he works very hard at Hull . 
Also my aunts aren't very strong . 
A house takes up a lot of time if you do it properly . 
Then there were the dogs . 
They had to be exercised , besides being washed and brushed . 
Now Sandy's dead , but Aunt Clara has a very old cockatoo that came from India . 
It's rather a nice house , she continued , except that it's a little dingy dull I should say . 
She called up before her eyes a vision of the drawing room at home it was a large oblong room , with a square window opening on the garden . 
Photographs from old Italian masterpieces hung on the walls , and views of Venetian bridges and Swedish waterfalls which members of the family had seen years ago . 
There were also one or two portraits of fathers and grandmothers , and an engraving of John Stuart Mill , after the picture by Watts . 
It was a room without definite character , being neither typically and openly hideous , nor strenuously artistic , nor really comfortable . 
Rachel roused herself from the contemplation of this familiar picture . 
But this isn't very interesting for you , she said , looking up . 
Good Lord ! Hewet exclaimed . 
I've never been so much interested in my life . 
She then realised that while she had been thinking of Richmond , his eyes had never left her face . 
The knowledge of this excited her . 
Go on , please go on , he urged . 
Let's imagine it's a Wednesday . 
You sit there , and Aunt Lucy there , and Aunt Clara here he arranged three pebbles on the grass between them . 
Aunt Clara carves the neck of lamb , Rachel continued . 
She fixed her gaze upon the pebbles . 
There's a pot of ferns . 
Then there's Blanche the maid , who snuffles because of her nose . 
We talk oh yes , it's Aunt Lucy's afternoon at Walworth , so we're rather quick over luncheon . 
She has a purple bag , and a black notebook . 
Aunt Clara has what they call a G. F. S. meeting in the drawing room on Wednesday , so I take the dogs out . 
I go up Richmond Hill , along the terrace , into the park . 
It's the th of April the same day as it is here . 
The ground is rather damp . 
Hampstead Church spire there , Westminster Cathedral over there , and factory chimneys about here . 
There's generally a haze over the low parts of London but it's often blue over the park when London's in a mist . 
It's the open place that the balloons cross going over to Hurlingham . 
Well , then , it smells very good , particularly if they happen to be burning wood in the keeper's lodge which is there . 
I could tell you now how to get from place to place , and exactly what trees you'd pass , and where you'd cross the roads . 
You see , I played there when I was small . 
Then I say what I've done , and my aunts say what they've done , and perhaps some one comes in Mrs. Hunt , let's suppose . 
She's an old lady with a lame leg . 
She has or she once had eight children so we ask after them . 
Mrs. Hunt , she said with a smile , had a son who was hugged to death by a bear . 
Here she stopped and looked at Hewet to see whether he was amused by the same things that amused her . 
But she thought it necessary to apologise again she had been talking too much . 
You can't conceive how it interests me , he said . 
Indeed , his cigarette had gone out , and he had to light another . 
Why does it interest you ? she asked . 
Partly because you're a woman , he replied . 
When he said this , Rachel , who had become oblivious of anything , and had reverted to a childlike state of interest and pleasure , lost her freedom and became self conscious . 
She felt herself at once singular and under observation , as she felt with St . 
Just consider it's the beginning of the twentieth century , and until a few years ago no woman had ever come out by herself and said things at all . 
There it was going on in the background , for all those thousands of years , this curious silent unrepresented life . 
Of course we're always writing about women abusing them , or jeering at them , or worshipping them but it's never come from women themselves . 
I believe we still don't know in the least how they live , or what they feel , or what they do precisely . 
If one's a man , the only confidences one gets are from young women about their love affairs . 
Either they're afraid , or they've got a way of treating men . 
It's the man's view that's represented , you see . 
Think of a railway train fifteen carriages for men who want to smoke . 
Doesn't it make your blood boil ? If I were a woman I'd blow some one's brains out . 
They were very much afraid of her father . 
He was a great dim force in the house , by means of which they held on to the great world which is represented every morning in the Times . 
But the real life of the house was something quite different from this . 
It went on independently of Mr. Vinrace , and tended to hide itself from him . 
He was good humoured towards them , but contemptuous . 
But did she really believe that ? Hewet's words made her think . 
They were less splendid but more natural than her father was . 
Following these thoughts she looked up and said And there's a sort of beauty in it there they are at Richmond at this very moment building things up . 
They're all wrong , perhaps , but there's a sort of beauty in it , she repeated . 
It's so unconscious , so modest . 
And yet they feel things . 
They do mind if people die . 
Old spinsters are always doing things . 
I don't quite know what they do . 
Only that was what I felt when I lived with them . 
Hewet observed her as she considered this . 
Were you happy ? he demanded . 
Again she had become absorbed in something else , and he called her back to an unusually vivid consciousness of herself . 
I was both , she replied . 
I was happy and I was miserable . 
You've no conception what it's like to be a young woman . 
She looked straight at him . 
There are terrors and agonies , she said , keeping her eye on him as if to detect the slightest hint of laughter . 
I can believe it , he said . 
He returned her look with perfect sincerity . 
Women one sees in the streets , she said . 
Prostitutes ? Men kissing one . 
You were never told ? She shook her head . 
And then , she began and stopped . 
Here came in the great space of life into which no one had ever penetrated . 
All that she had been saying about her father and her aunts and walks in Richmond Park , and what they did from hour to hour , was merely on the surface . 
But all the time she went on spinning out words . 
A girl is more lonely than a boy . 
No one cares in the least what she does . 
Unless one's very pretty people don't listen to what you say . 
And that is what I like , she added energetically , as if the memory were very happy . 
I like walking in Richmond Park and singing to myself and knowing it doesn't matter a damn to anybody . 
I like seeing things go on as we saw you that night when you didn't see us I love the freedom of it it's like being the wind or the sea . 
She turned with a curious fling of her hands and looked at the sea . 
It was still very blue , dancing away as far as the eye could reach , but the light on it was yellower , and the clouds were turning flamingo red . 
A feeling of intense depression crossed Hewet's mind as she spoke . 
Nonsense , he said abruptly . 
Your real grudge against Hirst is that he doesn't admire you . 
She made no answer for some time . 
Then she said That's probably true . 
Of course I like people I like almost every one I've ever met . 
She turned her back on the sea and regarded Hewet with friendly if critical eyes . 
He was good looking in the sense that he had always had a sufficiency of beef to eat and fresh air to breathe . 
His head was big the eyes were also large though generally vague they could be forcible and the lips were sensitive . 
One might account him a man of considerable passion and fitful energy , likely to be at the mercy of moods which had little relation to facts at once tolerant and fastidious . 
The breadth of his forehead showed capacity for thought . 
The interest with which Rachel looked at him was heard in her voice . 
What novels do you write ? she asked . 
I want to write a novel about Silence , he said the things people don't say . 
But the difficulty is immense . 
However , you don't care , he continued . 
He looked at her almost severely . 
All you read a novel for is to see what sort of person the writer is , and , if you know him , which of his friends he's put in . 
And yet I sometimes wonder whether there's anything else in the whole world worth doing . 
These other people , he indicated the hotel , are always wanting something they can't get . 
But there's an extraordinary satisfaction in writing , even in the attempt to write . 
What you said just now is true one doesn't want to be things one wants merely to be allowed to see them . 
Some of the satisfaction of which he spoke came into his face as he gazed out to sea . 
It was Rachel's turn now to feel depressed . 
As he talked of writing he had become suddenly impersonal . 
He might never care for any one all that desire to know her and get at her , which she had felt pressing on her almost painfully , had completely vanished . 
Are you a good writer ? she asked . 
I'm not first rate , of course I'm good second rate about as good as Thackeray , I should say . 
My other novel , Hewet continued , is about a young man who is obsessed by an idea the idea of being a gentleman . 
He manages to exist at Cambridge on a hundred pounds a year . 
He has a coat it was once a very good coat . 
But the trousers they're not so good . 
Well , he goes up to London , gets into good society , owing to an early morning adventure on the banks of the Serpentine . 
He is led into telling lies my idea , you see , is to show the gradual corruption of the soul calls himself the son of some great landed proprietor in Devonshire . 
Meanwhile the coat becomes older and older , and he hardly dares to wear the trousers . 
He has a friend , too , a man who somehow subsists upon selling small birds , for which he sets traps in the fields near Uxbridge . 
They're scholars , both of them . 
I know one or two wretched starving creatures like that who quote Aristotle at you over a fried herring and a pint of porter . 
Fashionable life , too , I have to represent at some length , in order to show my hero under all circumstances . 
Lady Theo Bingham Bingley , whose bay mare he had the good fortune to stop , is the daughter of a very fine old Tory peer . 
I'm going to describe the kind of parties I once went to the fashionable intellectuals , you know , who like to have the latest book on their tables . 
They give parties , river parties , parties where you play games . 
There's no difficulty in conceiving incidents the difficulty is to put them into shape not to get run away with , as Lady Theo was . 
It ended disastrously for her , poor woman , for the book , as I planned it , was going to end in profound and sordid respectability . 
Disowned by her father , she marries my hero , and they live in a snug little villa outside Croydon , in which town he is set up as a house agent . 
He never succeeds in becoming a real gentleman after all . 
That's the interesting part of it . 
My idea is that there's a certain quality of beauty in the past , which the ordinary historical novelist completely ruins by his absurd conventions . 
The moon becomes the Regent of the Skies . 
People clap spurs to their horses , and so on . 
I'm going to treat people as though they were exactly the same as we are . 
The advantage is that , detached from modern conditions , one can make them more intense and more abstract then people who live as we do . 
Rachel had listened to all this with attention , but with a certain amount of bewilderment . 
They both sat thinking their own thoughts . 
I'm not like Hirst , said Hewet , after a pause he spoke meditatively I don't see circles of chalk between people's feet . 
I sometimes wish I did . 
It seems to me so tremendously complicated and confused . 
One can't come to any decision at all one's less and less capable of making judgments . 
D'you find that ? And then one never knows what any one feels . 
We're all in the dark . 
We try to find out , but can you imagine anything more ludicrous than one person's opinion of another person ? One goes along thinking one knows but one really doesn't know . 
As he said this he was leaning on his elbow arranging and rearranging in the grass the stones which had represented Rachel and her aunts at luncheon . 
He was speaking as much to himself as to Rachel . 
He was reasoning against the desire , which had returned with intensity , to take her in his arms to have done with indirectness to explain exactly what he felt . 
I like you d'you like me ? Rachel suddenly observed . 
I like you immensely , Hewet replied , speaking with the relief of a person who is unexpectedly given an opportunity of saying what he wants to say . 
He stopped moving the pebbles . 
Mightn't we call each other Rachel and Terence ? he asked . 
Terence that's like the cry of an owl . 
It must be late ! she exclaimed . 
It was nearly eight o'clock . 
But eight o'clock doesn't count here , does it ? Terence asked , as they got up and turned inland again . 
They began to walk rather quickly down the hill on a little path between the olive trees . 
They felt more intimate because they shared the knowledge of what eight o'clock in Richmond meant . 
Terence walked in front , for there was not room for them side by side . 
We want to find out what's behind things , don't we ? Look at the lights down there , he continued , scattered about anyhow . 
Things I feel come to me like lights . 
I want to combine them . 
Have you ever seen fireworks that make figures ? . 
I want to make figures . 
Is that what you want to do ? Now they were out on the road and could walk side by side . 
When I play the piano ? Music is different . 
But I see what you mean . 
They tried to invent theories and to make their theories agree . 
As Hewet had no knowledge of music , Rachel took his stick and drew figures in the thin white dust to explain how Bach wrote his fugues . 
My mother thought music wasn't manly for boys she wanted me to kill rats and birds that's the worst of living in the country . 
It's the loveliest place in the world . 
Only it's always difficult at home when one's grown up . 
I'd like you to know one of my sisters . 
Oh , here's your gate He pushed it open . 
They paused for a moment . 
She could not ask him to come in . 
She could not say that she hoped they would meet again there was nothing to be said , and so without a word she went through the gate , and was soon invisible . 
Directly Hewet lost sight of her , he felt the old discomfort return , even more strongly than before . 
Their talk had been interrupted in the middle , just as he was beginning to say the things he wanted to say . 
It did not seem worth while to piece together so slight a friendship . 
Helen and Rachel had become very silent . 
Always calm and unemotional in her judgments , Mrs. Ambrose was now inclined to be definitely pessimistic . 
With a certain pleasure she developed these views to her niece , taking a letter from home as her test which gave good news , but might just as well have given bad . 
however sincere these views may have been , they were undoubtedly called forth by the irrational state of her niece's mind . 
It was so fluctuating , and went so quickly from joy to despair , that it seemed necessary to confront it with some stable opinion which naturally became dark as well as stable . 
It's hard enough without that , she asserted . 
What's hard ? Helen demanded . 
Life , she replied , and then they both became silent . 
All these moods ran themselves into one general effect , which Helen compared to the sliding of a river , quick , quicker , quicker still , as it races to a waterfall . 
It seemed that Rachel herself had no suspicion that she was watched , or that there was anything in her manner likely to draw attention to her . 
What had happened to her she did not know . 
Her mind was very much in the condition of the racing water to which Helen compared it . 
She thought of no result any more than a tree perpetually pressed downwards by the wind considers the result of being pressed downwards by the wind . 
During the two or three weeks which had passed since their walk , half a dozen notes from him had accumulated in her drawer . 
In these moods she found it impossible to read or play the piano , even to move being beyond her inclination . 
The time passed without her noticing it . 
When it was dark she was drawn to the window by the lights of the hotel . 
The steady lights marked the rooms where Terence sat with people moving round him . 
Every one who stayed in the hotel had a peculiar romance and interest about them . 
They were not ordinary people . 
She would attribute wisdom to Mrs. Elliot , beauty to Susan Warrington , a splendid vitality to Evelyn M. , because Terence spoke to them . 
As unreflecting and pervasive were the moods of depression . 
Her mind was as the landscape outside when dark beneath clouds and straitly lashed by wind and hail . 
Again she would sit passive in her chair exposed to pain , and Helen's fantastical or gloomy words were like so many darts goading her to cry out against the hardness of life . 
In her curious condition of unanalysed sensations she was incapable of making a plan which should have any effect upon her state of mind . 
She abandoned herself to the mercy of accidents , missing Terence one day , meeting him the next , receiving his letters always with a start of surprise . 
It seemed to her that her sensations had no name . 
But sometimes he did not come or did not write for several days at a time . 
Again when they met their meeting might be one of inspiriting joy or of harassing despair . 
Over all their partings hung the sense of interruption , leaving them both unsatisfied , though ignorant that the other shared the feeling . 
If Rachel was ignorant of her own feelings , she was even more completely ignorant of his . 
She was conscious of emotions and powers which she had never suspected in herself , and of a depth in the world hitherto unknown . 
When she thought of their relationship she saw rather than reasoned , representing her view of what Terence felt by a picture of him drawn across the room to stand by her side . 
This passage across the room amounted to a physical sensation , but what it meant she did not know . 
Thus the time went on , wearing a calm , bright look upon its surface . 
Letters came from England , letters came from Willoughby , and the days accumulated their small events which shaped the year . 
Superficially , three odes of Pindar were mended , Helen covered about five inches of her embroidery , and St . 
John completed the first two acts of a play . 
It was a time of profound thought and sudden revelations for more than one couple , and several single people . 
A Sunday came , which no one in the villa with the exception of Rachel and the Spanish maid proposed to recognise . 
Rachel still went to church , because she had never , according to Helen , taken the trouble to think about it . 
As the hands of the clock neared eleven , on this particular Sunday , various people tended to draw together in the hall , clasping little redleaved books in their hands . 
Mr. Bax , Mrs. Thornbury whispered . 
The little group of people then began to move off in the same direction as the stout black figure . 
Looked at in an odd way by people who made no effort to join them , they moved with one exception slowly and consciously towards the stairs . 
Mrs. Flushing was the exception . 
Rachel was among the first to descend . 
She did not see that Terence and Hirst came in at the rear possessed of no black volume , but of one thin book bound in light blue cloth , which St . 
John carried under his arm . 
The chapel was the old chapel of the monks . 
The sound spread through the chapel as the rings of water spread from a fallen stone . 
The twenty or twenty five people who composed the congregation first bowed their heads and then sat up and looked about them . 
It was very quiet , and the light down here seemed paler than the light above . 
The usual bows and smiles were dispensed with , but they recognised each other . 
The Lord's Prayer was read over them . 
As the childlike battle of voices rose , the congregation , many of whom had only met on the staircase , felt themselves pathetically united and well disposed towards each other . 
As if the prayer were a torch applied to fuel , a smoke seemed to rise automatically and fill the place with the ghosts of innumerable services on innumerable Sunday mornings at home . 
Susan Warrington in particular was conscious of the sweetest sense of sisterhood , as she covered her face with her hands and saw slips of bent backs through the chinks between her fingers . 
Her emotions rose calmly and evenly , approving of herself and of life at the same time . 
It was all so quiet and so good . 
But having created this peaceful atmosphere Mr. Bax suddenly turned the page and read a psalm . 
Though he read it with no change of voice the mood was broken . 
Be merciful unto me , O God , he read , for man goeth about to devour me he is daily fighting and troubling me . 
They daily mistake my words all that they imagine is to do me evil . 
They hold all together and keep themselves close . 
Her mind was still serene and really occupied with praise of her own nature and praise of God , that is of the solemn and satisfactory order of the world . 
But it could be seen from a glance at their faces that most of the others , the men in particular , felt the inconvenience of the sudden intrusion of this old savage . 
Then they returned to the New Testament and the sad and beautiful figure of Christ . 
Such was the discomfort she felt when forced to sit through an unsatisfactory piece of music badly played . 
The thought had the same sort of physical discomfort as is caused by a film of mist always coming between the eyes and the printed page . 
The effort was tiring and dispiriting . 
She was a limpet , with the sensitive side of her stuck to a rock , for ever dead to the rush of fresh and beautiful things past her . 
The face of this single worshipper became printed on Rachel's mind with an impression of keen horror , and she had it suddenly revealed to her what Helen meant and St . 
John meant when they proclaimed their hatred of Christianity . 
With the violence that now marked her feelings , she rejected all that she had implicitly believed . 
Meanwhile Mr. Bax was half way through the second lesson . 
Right at the back of the chapel Mrs. Flushing , Hirst , and Hewet sat in a row in a very different frame of mind . 
But when he suddenly perceived Rachel , all these thoughts were driven out of his head , and he thought only of her . 
He stared alternately at Rachel and at the ceiling , but his expression was now produced not by what he saw but by something in his mind . 
He was almost as painfully disturbed by his thoughts as she was by hers . 
He was reading steadily in the thin pale blue volume . 
Unable to understand , she peered closer , upon which Hirst politely laid the book before her , pointing to the first line of a Greek poem and then to the translation opposite . 
What's that ? she whispered inquisitively . 
The one Swinburne did the best thing that's ever been written . 
Mrs. Flushing could not resist such an opportunity . 
Meanwhile Hirst took out an envelope and began scribbling on the back of it . 
When Mr. Bax mounted the pulpit he shut up Sappho with his envelope between the pages , settled his spectacles , and fixed his gaze intently upon the clergyman . 
Standing in the pulpit he looked very large and fat the light coming through the greenish unstained window glass made his face appear smooth and white like a very large egg . 
The argument of the sermon was that visitors to this beautiful land , although they were on a holiday , owed a duty to the natives . 
It did not , in truth , differ very much from a leading article upon topics of general interest in the weekly newspapers . 
What men were inclined to say now was , Oh , that fellow he's a parson . 
What we want them to say is , He's a good fellow in other words , He is my brother . 
Whipping round as though to avoid applause , he continued with the same breath , but in a different tone of voice , And now to God the Father . 
Miss Vinrace , Mrs. Flushing whispered peremptorily , stay to luncheon . 
It's such a dismal day . 
They don't even give one beef for luncheon . 
English people abroad ! she returned with a vivid flash of malice . 
Ain't they awful ! But we won't stay here , she continued , plucking at Rachel's arm . 
Come up to my room . 
She bore her past Hewet and Evelyn and the Thornburys and the Elliots . 
Miss Vinrace has promised to lunch with me , said Mrs. Flushing , and began to pound energetically up the staircase , as though the middle classes of England were in pursuit . 
She did not stop until she had slammed her bedroom door behind them . 
Well , what did you think of it ? she demanded , panting slightly . 
All the disgust and horror which Rachel had been accumulating burst forth beyond her control . 
I thought it the most loathsome exhibition I'd ever seen ! she broke out . 
Mrs. Flushing watched her with keen gusto as she stood ejaculating with emphatic movements of her head and hands in the middle of the room . 
Go on , go on , do go on , she laughed , clapping her hands . 
It's delightful to hear you ! But why do you go ? Rachel demanded . 
I've been every Sunday of my life ever since I can remember , Mrs. Flushing chuckled , as though that were a reason by itself . 
Rachel turned abruptly to the window . 
She did not know what it was that had put her into such a passion the sight of Terence in the hall had confused her thoughts , leaving her merely indignant . 
She looked straight at their own villa , half way up the side of the mountain . 
The most familiar view seen framed through glass has a certain unfamiliar distinction , and she grew calm as she gazed . 
Then she remembered that she was in the presence of some one she did not know well , and she turned and looked at Mrs. Flushing . 
Mrs. Flushing was still sitting on the edge of the bed , looking up , with her lips parted , so that her strong white teeth showed in two rows . 
Tell me , she said , which d'you like best , Mr. Hewet or Mr. Hirst ? Mr. Hewet , Rachel replied , but her voice did not sound natural . 
Which is the one who reads Greek in church ? Mrs. Flushing demanded . 
The room , of course , was one of the largest and most luxurious in the hotel . 
But you're not to look at those , said Mrs. Flushing as she saw Rachel's eye wander . 
She jumped up , and turned as many as she could , face downwards , upon the floor . 
There could be no doubt that Mrs. Flushing had represented the vigorous and abrupt fling of the earth up into the air you could almost see the clods flying as it whirled . 
Rachel passed from one to another . 
I see things movin' , Mrs. Flushing explained . 
So she swept her hand through a yard of the air . 
She then took up one of the cardboards which Rachel had laid aside , seated herself on a stool , and began to flourish a stump of charcoal . 
While she occupied herself in strokes which seemed to serve her as speech serves others , Rachel , who was very restless , looked about her . 
Open the wardrobe , said Mrs. Flushing after a pause , speaking indistinctly because of a paint brush in her mouth , and look at the things . 
Rachel began to finger them . 
Mrs. Flushing came up once more , and dropped a quantity of beads , brooches , earrings , bracelets , tassels , and combs among the draperies . 
Then she went back to her stool and began to paint in silence . 
The women wore them hundreds of years ago , they wear 'em still , Mrs. Flushing remarked . 
My husband rides about and finds 'em they don't know what they're worth , so we get 'em cheap . 
And we shall sell 'em to smart women in London , she chuckled , as though the thought of these ladies and their absurd appearance amused her . 
After painting for some minutes , she suddenly laid down her brush and fixed her eyes upon Rachel . 
I tell you what I want to do , she said . 
I want to go up there and see things for myself . 
It's silly stayin' here with a pack of old maids as though we were at the seaside in England . 
I want to go up the river and see the natives in their camps . 
It's only a matter of ten days under canvas . 
One would lie out under the trees at night and be towed down the river by day , and if we saw anythin' nice we'd shout out and tell 'em to stop . 
She rose and began piercing the bed again and again with a long golden pin , as she watched to see what effect her suggestion had upon Rachel . 
We must make up a party , she went on . 
Ten people could hire a launch . 
She sat on the edge of the bed and wrote down a list of surnames , which she invariably spelt wrong . 
Rachel was enthusiastic , for indeed the idea was immeasurably delightful to her . 
She had always had a great desire to see the river , and the name of Terence threw a lustre over the prospect , which made it almost too good to come true . 
She did what she could to help Mrs. Flushing by suggesting names , helping her to spell them , and counting up the days of the week upon her fingers . 
At last Mrs. Flushing sought her diary for help , the method of reckoning dates on the fingers proving unsatisfactory . 
Mrs. Flushing rang her bell violently . 
The door was opened by a handsome maid who was almost as upright as her mistress . 
Now she pointed at the door with a superb forefinger so that Rachel had to lead the way . 
Oh , and Yarmouth , Mrs. Flushing called back over her shoulder . 
Put those things away and hang 'em in their right places , there's a good girl , or it fusses Mr. Flushin' . 
To all of which Yarmouth merely replied , Yes , ma'am . 
As they entered the long dining room it was obvious that the day was still Sunday , although the mood was slightly abating . 
The Flushings' table was set by the side in the window , so that Mrs. Flushing could scrutinise each figure as it entered , and her curiosity seemed to be intense . 
Old Mrs. Paley , she whispered as the wheeled chair slowly made its way through the door , Arthur pushing behind . 
That nice woman , she nudged Rachel to look at Miss Allan . 
Next came the two young men whom Mrs. Flushing called collectively the Hirsts . 
They sat down opposite , across the gangway . 
Mr. Flushing treated his wife with a mixture of admiration and indulgence , making up by the suavity and fluency of his speech for the abruptness of hers . 
While she darted and ejaculated he gave Rachel a sketch of the history of South American art . 
He would deal with one of his wife's exclamations , and then return as smoothly as ever to his theme . 
He knew very well how to make a luncheon pass agreeably , without being dull or intimate . 
There might be prehistoric towns , like those in Greece and Asia , standing in open places among the trees , filled with the works of this early race . 
Nobody had been there scarcely anything was known . 
Thus talking and displaying the most picturesque of his theories , Rachel's attention was fixed upon him . 
She did not see that Hewet kept looking at her across the gangway , between the figures of waiters hurrying past with plates . 
He was inattentive , and Hirst was finding him also very cross and disagreeable . 
They had touched upon all the usual topics upon politics and literature , gossip and Christianity . 
They had quarrelled over the service , which was every bit as fine as Sappho , according to Hewet so that Hirst's paganism was mere ostentation . 
I wrote 'em on the back of the envelope of my aunt's last letter , he said , and pulled it from between the pages of Sappho . 
Well , let's hear them , said Hewet , slightly mollified by the prospect of a literary discussion . 
My dear Hewet , do you wish us both to be flung out of the hotel by an enraged mob of Thornburys and Elliots ? Hirst enquired . 
The merest whisper would be sufficient to incriminate me for ever . 
God ! he broke out , what's the use of attempting to write when the world's peopled by such damned fools ? Seriously , Hewet , I advise you to give up literature . 
What's the good of it ? There's your audience . 
He nodded his head at the tables where a very miscellaneous collection of Europeans were now engaged in eating , in some cases in gnawing , the stringy foreign fowls . 
Hewet looked , and grew more out of temper than ever . 
His eyes fell upon Rachel , and he bowed to her . 
I rather think Rachel's in love with me , he remarked , as his eyes returned to his plate . 
That's the worst of friendships with young women they tend to fall in love with one . 
To that Hewet made no answer whatever , and sat singularly still . 
When luncheon was over they separated , taking their cups of coffee to different parts of the hall . 
Mr. Flushing was now in the full tide of his discourse . 
He produced a sheet of paper upon which he made drawings as he went on with his talk . 
He saw Rachel lean over and look , pointing to this and that with her finger . 
Hewet unkindly compared Mr. Flushing , who was extremely well dressed for a hot climate , and rather elaborate in his manner , to a very persuasive shop keeper . 
They wanted to know whether he could tell them anything about Mr. Bax . 
After some discussion , the ladies put it beyond a doubt that Mr. Bax was not the son of Mr. William Bax . 
Then Mrs. Thornbury remarked that she was still in the habit of saying Queen instead of King in the National Anthem . 
Then Miss Allan observed reflectively that going to church abroad always made her feel as if she had been to a sailor's funeral . 
Mrs. Thornbury was led to enquire whether we should like it if all our rooks were blue What do you think , William ? she asked , touching her husband on the knee . 
Hewet could stand it no longer . 
He rose , took his hat and dashed out of doors . 
Chapter XVIII Everything he saw was distasteful to him . 
He walked fast in spite of the heat of the sun . 
The exercise indeed served to clear away the superficial irritations of the morning , but he remained miserable . 
Finally , Hirst's odious words flicked his mind like a whip , and he remembered that he had left her talking to Hirst . 
She was at this moment talking to him , and it might be true , as he said , that she was in love with him . 
He certainly was in love with her , if he knew what love meant . 
Ever since he had first seen her he had been interested and attracted , more and more interested and attracted , until he was scarcely able to think of anything except Rachel . 
He instantly decided that he did not want to marry any one . 
Partly because he was irritated by Rachel the idea of marriage irritated him . 
It immediately suggested the picture of two people sitting alone over the fire the man was reading , the woman sewing . 
There was a second picture . 
He saw a man jump up , say good night , leave the company and hasten away with the quiet secret look of one who is stealing to certain happiness . 
Other pictures he was walking very fast in his irritation , and they came before him without any conscious effort , like pictures on a sheet succeeded these . 
Here were the worn husband and wife sitting with their children round them , very patient , tolerant , and wise . 
But that too , was an unpleasant picture . 
All the most individual and humane of his friends were bachelors and spinsters indeed he was surprised to find that the women he most admired and knew best were unmarried women . 
Marriage seemed to be worse for them than it was for men . 
Leaving these general pictures he considered the people whom he had been observing lately at the hotel . 
He had often revolved these questions in his mind , as he watched Susan and Arthur , or Mr. and Mrs. Thornbury , or Mr. and Mrs. Elliot . 
Susan used to pursue Arthur about with a sweater , because he had one day let slip that a brother of his had died of pneumonia . 
He then looked at the couples who had been married for several years . 
There was the same difficulty with regard to the Elliots , except that they probably bickered openly in private . 
There could be no doubt , he decided , that it would have been far better for the world if these couples had separated . 
It was a strange and piteous flaw in her nature . 
Perhaps Rachel had been right , then , when she said that night in the garden , We bring out what's worst in each other we should live separate . 
No Rachel had been utterly wrong ! Every argument seemed to be against undertaking the burden of marriage until he came to Rachel's argument , which was manifestly absurd . 
From having been the pursued , he turned and became the pursuer . 
Allowing the case against marriage to lapse , he began to consider the peculiarities of character which had led to her saying that . 
She was young , but she was also old she had little self confidence , and yet she was a good judge of people . 
As far as he knew Rachel was inclined to be punctual , but he could not remember that he had ever seen her with a pen in her hand . 
Let him next imagine a dinner party , say at the Crooms , and Wilson , who had taken her down , talking about the state of the Liberal party . 
She would say of course she was absolutely ignorant of politics . 
Nevertheless she was intelligent certainly , and honest too . 
But the great gift she had was that she understood what was said to her there had never been any one like her for talking to . 
You could say anything you could say everything , and yet she was never servile . 
Here he pulled himself up , for it seemed to him suddenly that he knew less about her than about any one . 
All these thoughts had occurred to him many times already often had he tried to argue and reason and again he had reached the old state of doubt . 
No happiness would be like ours . 
No lives would compare with ours . 
He opened his arms wide as if to hold her and the world in one embrace . 
Chapter XIX But Hewet need not have increased his torments by imagining that Hirst was still talking to Rachel . 
She did not know whether to go or to stay , though Mrs. Flushing had commanded her to appear at tea . 
What ! You here ? Evelyn exclaimed . 
Just caught a glimpse of you at lunch but you wouldn't condescend to look at me . 
I hate these people , she said . 
I wish you'd come up to my room with me . 
I do want to talk to you . 
As Rachel had no wish to go or to stay , Evelyn took her by the wrist and drew her out of the hall and up the stairs . 
As they went upstairs two steps at a time , Evelyn , who still kept hold of Rachel's hand , ejaculated broken sentences about not caring a hang what people said . 
It was evident that she was only waiting for the door to shut to tell Rachel all about it . 
She was however in the mood to say straight out whatever occurred to her without fear of the consequences . 
Somebody's proposed to you , she remarked . 
How on earth did you guess that ? Evelyn exclaimed , some pleasure mingling with her surprise . 
Do as I look as if I'd just had a proposal ? You look as if you had them every day , Rachel replied . 
But I don't suppose I've had more than you've had , Evelyn laughed rather insincerely . 
But you will lots it's the easiest thing in the world But that's not what's happened this afternoon exactly . 
Still sponging them and trembling slightly she turned and explained in the high pitched voice of nervous excitement Alfred Perrott says I've promised to marry him , and I say I never did . 
Sinclair says he'll shoot himself if I don't marry him , and I say , 'Well , shoot yourself ! But of course he doesn't they never do . 
So at last I said to him , 'Well , Sinclair , you've said enough now . 
You can just let me go . 
She walked about the room , dabbing her wet cheeks with a towel . 
Tears were now running down with the drops of cold water . 
It makes me angry , she explained , drying her eyes . 
She did not think of Evelyn's position she only thought that the world was full or people in torment . 
There's only one man here I really like , Evelyn continued Terence Hewet . 
One feels as if one could trust him . 
At these words Rachel suffered an indescribable chill her heart seemed to be pressed together by cold hands . 
Why can you trust him ? I don't know , said Evelyn . 
Don't you have feelings about people ? Feelings you're absolutely certain are right ? I had a long talk with Terence the other night . 
I felt we were really friends after that . 
There's something of a woman in him She paused as though she were thinking of very intimate things that Terence had told her , so at least Rachel interpreted her gaze . 
How I'd like you to know her ! she exclaimed . 
She was becoming much calmer , and her cheeks were now quite dry . 
Her eyes had regained their usual expression of keen vitality , and she seemed to have forgotten Alfred and Sinclair and her emotion . 
Lillah runs a home for inebriate women in the Deptford Road , she continued . 
She started it , managed it , did everything off her own bat , and it's now the biggest of its kind in England . 
You can't think what those women are like and their homes . 
But she goes among them at all hours of the day and night . 
I've often been with her . 
That's what's the matter with us . 
What do you do ? she demanded , looking at Rachel with a slightly ironical smile . 
Rachel had scarcely listened to any of this , and her expression was vacant and unhappy . 
She had conceived an equal dislike for Lillah Harrison and her work in the Deptford Road , and for Evelyn M. and her profusion of love affairs . 
I play , she said with an affection of stolid composure . 
That's about it ! Evelyn laughed . 
We none of us do anything but play . 
And that's why women like Lillah Harrison , who's worth twenty of you and me , have to work themselves to the bone . 
But I'm tired of playing , she went on , lying flat on the bed , and raising her arms above her head . 
Thus stretched out , she looked more diminutive than ever . 
I'm going to do something . 
I've got a splendid idea . 
Look here , you must join . 
I'm sure you've got any amount of stuff in you , though you look well , as if you'd lived all your life in a garden . 
She sat up , and began to explain with animation . 
I belong to a club in London . 
It meets every Saturday , so it's called the Saturday Club . 
So what I'm going to tell 'em is that we've talked enough about art , and we'd better talk about life for a change . 
Questions that really matter to people's lives , the White Slave Traffic , Women Suffrage , the Insurance Bill , and so on . 
And when we've made up our mind what we want to do we could form ourselves into a society for doing it . 
My idea is that men and women ought to join in these matters . 
That's what Mr. Bax was saying this morning , and it's true , though you clever people you're clever too , aren't you ? don't believe it . 
When Evelyn began talking it was a fact she often regretted her thoughts came so quickly that she never had any time to listen to other people's thoughts . 
She continued without more pause than was needed for taking breath . 
I don't see why the Saturday club people shouldn't do a really great work in that way , she went on . 
Of course it would want organisation , some one to give their life to it , but I'm ready to do that . 
My notion's to think of the human beings first and let the abstract ideas take care of themselves . 
What's wrong with Lillah if there is anything wrong is that she thinks of Temperance first and the women afterwards . 
Now there's one thing I'll say to my credit , she continued I'm not intellectual or artistic or anything of that sort , but I'm jolly human . 
She slipped off the bed and sat on the floor , looking up at Rachel . 
She searched up into her face as if she were trying to read what kind of character was concealed behind the face . 
She put her hand on Rachel's knee . 
It is being human that counts , isn't it ? she continued . 
Being real , whatever Mr. Hirst may say . 
But I don't believe in God , I don't believe in Mr. Bax , I don't believe in the hospital nurse . 
I don't believe She took up a photograph and , looking at it , did not finish her sentence . 
That's my mother , said Evelyn , who remained sitting on the floor binding her knees together with her arms , and watching Rachel curiously . 
Well , I don't much believe in her , she remarked after a time in a low tone of voice . 
And that's my dad , said Evelyn , for there were two photographs in one frame . 
And it's because of them , said Evelyn , that I'm going to help the other women . 
You've heard about me , I suppose ? They weren't married , you see I'm not anybody in particular . 
I'm not a bit ashamed of it . 
They loved each other anyhow , and that's more than most people can say of their parents . 
Rachel sat down on the bed , with the two pictures in her hands , and compared them the man and the woman who had , so Evelyn said , loved each other . 
That fact interested her more than the campaign on behalf of unfortunate women which Evelyn was once more beginning to describe . 
She looked again from one to the other . 
What d'you think it's like , she asked , as Evelyn paused for a minute , being in love ? Have you never been in love ? Evelyn asked . 
Oh no one's only got to look at you to see that , she added . 
I really was in love once , she said . 
She fell into reflection , her eyes losing their bright vitality and approaching something like an expression of tenderness . 
It was heavenly ! while it lasted . 
The worst of it is it don't last , not with me . 
She went on to consider the difficulty with Alfred and Sinclair about which she had pretended to ask Rachel's advice . 
But she did not want advice she wanted intimacy . 
When she looked at Rachel , who was still looking at the photographs on the bed , she could not help seeing that Rachel was not thinking about her . 
Rachel at last put down the photographs , walked to the window and remarked , It's odd . 
People talk as much about love as they do about religion . 
I wish you'd sit down and talk , said Evelyn impatiently . 
Instead Rachel opened the window , which was made in two long panes , and looked down into the garden below . 
That's where we got lost the first night , she said . 
It must have been in those bushes . 
They kill hens down there , said Evelyn . 
They cut their heads off with a knife disgusting ! But tell me what I'd like to explore the hotel , Rachel interrupted . 
She drew her head in and looked at Evelyn , who still sat on the floor . 
It's just like other hotels , said Evelyn . 
She moved slowly towards the door . 
What is it you want ? said Evelyn . 
You make me feel as if you were always thinking of something you don't say . 
Do say it ! But Rachel made no response to this invitation either . 
She stopped with her fingers on the handle of the door , as if she remembered that some sort of pronouncement was due from her . 
I suppose you'll marry one of them , she said , and then turned the handle and shut the door behind her . 
She walked slowly down the passage , running her hand along the wall beside her . 
She did not think which way she was going , and therefore walked down a passage which only led to a window and a balcony . 
She looked down at the kitchen premises , the wrong side of the hotel life , which was cut off from the right side by a maze of small bushes . 
The ground was bare , old tins were scattered about , and the bushes wore towels and aprons upon their heads to dry . 
Every now and then a waiter came out in a white apron and threw rubbish on to a heap . 
Two large women in cotton dresses were sitting on a bench with blood smeared tin trays in front of them and yellow bodies across their knees . 
They were plucking the birds , and talking as they plucked . 
Suddenly a chicken came floundering , half flying , half running into the space , pursued by a third woman whose age could hardly be under eighty . 
Then she looked up sharply , because of the ugliness of what she had seen . 
It was Miss Allan who stood beside her . 
Not a pretty sight , said Miss Allan , although I daresay it's really more humane than our method . 
I don't believe you've ever been in my room , she added , and turned away as if she meant Rachel to follow her . 
Rachel followed , for it seemed possible that each new person might remove the mystery which burdened her . 
But directly a box was unpacked the rooms became very different , so that Miss Allan's room was very unlike Evelyn's room . 
There were no variously coloured hatpins on her dressing table no scent bottles no narrow curved pairs of scissors no great variety of shoes and boots no silk petticoats lying on the chairs . 
The room was extremely neat . 
There seemed to be two pairs of everything . 
Miss Allan had asked Rachel to come in out of kindness , thinking that she was waiting about with nothing to do . 
She looked about accordingly for something to show her . 
The room did not provide much entertainment . 
Age of Chaucer Age of Elizabeth Age of Dryden , she reflected I'm glad there aren't many more ages . 
I'm still in the middle of the eighteenth century . 
Won't you sit down , Miss Vinrace ? The chair , though small , is firm . 
The germ of the English novel , she continued , glancing at another page . 
This expression had a remarkable charm in a face otherwise much lined with care and thought . 
Oh no , it's music with you , isn't it ? she continued , recollecting , and I generally find that they don't go together . 
Sometimes of course we have prodigies She was looking about her for something and now saw a jar on the mantelpiece which she reached down and gave to Rachel . 
If you put your finger into this jar you may be able to extract a piece of preserved ginger . 
Are you a prodigy ? But the ginger was deep and could not be reached . 
Don't bother , she said , as Miss Allan looked about for some other implement . 
I daresay I shouldn't like preserved ginger . 
You've never tried ? enquired Miss Allan . 
Then I consider that it is your duty to try now . 
Why , you may add a new pleasure to life , and as you are still young She wondered whether a button hook would do . 
I make it a rule to try everything , she said . 
She was now successful , and a lump of ginger emerged on the end of the button hook . 
For answer Rachel threw it out of the window . 
An experience anyhow , said Miss Allan calmly . 
Let me see I have nothing else to offer you , unless you would like to taste this . 
A small cupboard hung above her bed , and she took out of it a slim elegant jar filled with a bright green fluid . 
Creme de Menthe , she said . 
It looks as if I drank , doesn't it ? As a matter of fact it goes to prove what an exceptionally abstemious person I am . 
Twenty six years ? Rachel exclaimed . 
Miss Allan was gratified , for she had meant Rachel to be surprised . 
When I went to Dresden six and twenty years ago , she said , a certain friend of mine announced her intention of making me a present . 
She thought that in the event of shipwreck or accident a stimulant might be useful . 
However , as I had no occasion for it , I gave it back on my return . 
On the eve of any foreign journey the same bottle always makes its appearance , with the same note on my return in safety it is always handed back . 
I consider it a kind of charm against accidents . 
Though I was once detained twenty four hours by an accident to the train in front of me , I have never met with any accident myself . 
It is a gentleman , as you may observe , and his name is Oliver . 
Rachel was swinging the bottle by the neck . 
She was interested by Miss Allan to the point of forgetting the bottle . 
Well , she exclaimed , I do think that odd to have had a friend for twenty six years , and a bottle , and to have made all those journeys . 
Not at all I call it the reverse of odd , Miss Allan replied . 
I always consider myself the most ordinary person I know . 
It's rather distinguished to be as ordinary as I am . 
I forget are you a prodigy , or did you say you were not a prodigy ? She smiled at Rachel very kindly . 
But Miss Allan , who was now locking the cupboard door , showed no signs of breaking the reticence which had snowed her under for years . 
I find it very difficult to say what I mean she observed at length . 
It's a matter of temperament , I believe , Miss Allan helped her . 
There are some people who have no difficulty for myself I find there are a great many things I simply cannot say . 
But then I consider myself very slow . 
One of my colleagues now , knows whether she likes you or not let me see , how does she do it ? by the way you say good morning at breakfast . 
It is sometimes a matter of years before I can make up my mind . 
But most young people seem to find it easy ? Oh no , said Rachel . 
It's hard ! Miss Allan looked at Rachel quietly , saying nothing she suspected that there were difficulties of some kind . 
Then she put her hand to the back of her head , and discovered that one of the grey coils of hair had come loose . 
I must ask you to be so kind as to excuse me , she said , rising , if I do my hair . 
I have never yet found a satisfactory type of hairpin . 
People say youth is pleasant I myself find middle age far pleasanter , she remarked , removing hair pins and combs , and taking up her brush . 
When it fell loose her hair only came down to her neck . 
When one was young , she continued , things could seem so very serious if one was made that way . 
In a wonderfully short space of time her hair had been reformed in its usual loops . 
Our Miss Johnson used to find life very unsatisfactory , I remember , Miss Allan continued . 
She turned her back to the light . 
And then she took to breeding guinea pigs for their spots , and became absorbed in that . 
I have just heard that the yellow guinea pig has had a black baby . 
We had a bet of sixpence on about it . 
She will be very triumphant . 
She looked at herself in the glass with the curious stiffening of her face generally caused by looking in the glass . 
Am I in a fit state to encounter my fellow beings ? she asked . 
I forget which way it is but they find black animals very rarely have coloured babies it may be the other way round . 
I have had it so often explained to me that it is very stupid of me to have forgotten again . 
Finally , completely equipped for Sunday tea , she stood before Rachel , and smiled at her kindly . 
She was not an impulsive woman , and her life had schooled her to restrain her tongue . 
Shall we descend ? she said . 
She put one hand upon Rachel's shoulder , and stooping , picked up a pair of walking shoes with the other , and placed them neatly side by side outside her door . 
I always think that people are so like their boots , said Miss Allan . 
That is Mrs. Paley's but as she spoke the door opened , and Mrs. Paley rolled out in her chair , equipped also for tea . 
She greeted Miss Allan and Rachel . 
I was just saying that people are so like their boots , said Miss Allan . 
Mrs. Paley did not hear . 
She repeated it more loudly still . 
Mrs. Paley did not hear . 
She repeated it a third time . 
Mrs. Paley heard , but she did not understand . 
She was apparently about to repeat it for the fourth time , when Rachel suddenly said something inarticulate , and disappeared down the corridor . 
This misunderstanding , which involved a complete block in the passage , seemed to her unbearable . 
She walked quickly and blindly in the opposite direction , and found herself at the end of a cul de sac . 
Rachel sat down , as if to study the French newspaper , but a tear fell on the blurred French print , raising a soft blot . 
It had been miserable from start to finish first , the service in the chapel then luncheon then Evelyn then Miss Allan then old Mrs. Paley blocking up the passage . 
All day long she had been tantalized and put off . 
She had now reached one of those eminences , the result of some crisis , from which the world is finally displayed in its true proportions . 
Meanwhile the steady beat of her own pulse represented the hot current of feeling that ran down beneath beating , struggling , fretting . 
Thus tormented , she would twist her hands together , for all things were wrong , all people stupid . 
Vaguely seeing that there were people down in the garden beneath she represented them as aimless masses of matter , floating hither and thither , without aim except to impede her . 
What were they doing , those other people in the world ? Nobody knows , she said . 
The force of her rage was beginning to spend itself , and the vision of the world which had been so vivid became dim . 
It's a dream , she murmured . 
She considered the rusty inkstand , the pen , the ash tray , and the old French newspaper . 
These small and worthless objects seemed to her to represent human lives . 
We're asleep and dreaming , she repeated . 
But the possibility which now suggested itself that one of the shapes might be the shape of Terence roused her from her melancholy lethargy . 
She became as restless as she had been before she sat down . 
She was no longer able to see the world as a town laid out beneath her . 
It was covered instead by a haze of feverish red mist . 
She had returned to the state in which she had been all day . 
Physical movement was the only refuge , in and out of rooms , in and out of people's minds , seeking she knew not what . 
Therefore she rose , pushed back the table , and went downstairs . 
She went out of the hall door , and , turning the corner of the hotel , found herself among the people whom she had seen from the window . 
It had the look of a vision printed on the dark at night . 
The group indeed had come together in a miscellaneous way one tea table joining to another tea table , and deck chairs serving to connect two groups . 
But even at a distance it could be seen that Mrs. Flushing , upright and imperious , dominated the party . 
She was talking vehemently to Helen across the table . 
Ten days under canvas , she was saying . 
If you want comforts , don't come . 
But I may tell you , if you don't come you'll regret it all your life . 
You say yes ? At this moment Mrs. Flushing caught sight of Rachel . 
Ah , there's your niece . 
You're coming , aren't you ? Having adopted the plan , she pursued it with the energy of a child . 
Rachel took her part with eagerness . 
So are you , Helen . 
As she sat she realised that she was surrounded by people she knew , but that Terence was not among them . 
From various angles people began saying what they thought of the proposed expedition . 
According to some it would be hot , but the nights would be cold according to others , the difficulties would lie rather in getting a boat , and in speaking the language . 
Mrs. Flushing disposed of all objections , whether due to man or due to nature , by announcing that her husband would settle all that . 
Helen murmured ambiguously , and did not commit herself to one answer rather than to another . 
She leant over to Mrs. Flushing and whispered something which from the twinkle in her eyes probably had reference to bugs . 
Then Helen was reciting Toll for the Brave to St . 
Miss Allan meanwhile murmured with the curious intimacy which a spinster often achieves with dogs , to the fox terrier which Evelyn had at last induced to come over to them . 
Little particles of dust or blossom fell on the plates now and then when the branches sighed above . 
She came across , and sat on the ground at Rachel's feet . 
Well ? she asked suddenly . 
What are you thinking about ? Miss Warrington , Rachel replied rashly , because she had to say something . 
She did indeed see Susan murmuring to Mrs. Elliot , while Arthur stared at her with complete confidence in his own love . 
Both Rachel and Evelyn then began to listen to what Susan was saying . 
Rachel suddenly took a violent dislike to Susan , ignoring all that was kindly , modest , and even pathetic about her . 
Did you go to church ? she asked . 
She had won her sixpence and seemed making ready to go . 
For the last time , she added . 
In preparing to put on her gloves , Helen dropped one . 
You're not going ? Evelyn asked , taking hold of one glove as if to keep them . 
It's high time we went , said Helen . 
Helen could not see who it was , but keeping her eyes fixed upon Rachel observed something which made her say to herself , So it's Hewet . 
She drew on her gloves with a curious sense of the significance of the moment . 
Then she rose , for Mrs. Flushing had seen Hewet too , and was demanding information about rivers and boats which showed that the whole conversation would now come over again . 
Rachel followed her , and they walked in silence down the avenue . 
It's so unpleasant , being cooped up with people one hardly knows , she remarked . 
People who mind being seen naked . 
You don't mean to go ? Rachel asked . 
The intensity with which this was spoken irritated Mrs. Ambrose . 
I don't mean to go , and I don't mean not to go , she replied . 
She became more and more casual and indifferent . 
After all , I daresay we've seen all there is to be seen and there's the bother of getting there , and whatever they may say it's bound to be vilely uncomfortable . 
For some time Rachel made no reply but every sentence Helen spoke increased her bitterness . 
You see that things are bad , and you pride yourself on saying so . 
It's what you call being honest as a matter of fact it's being lazy , being dull , being nothing . 
You don't help you put an end to things . 
Helen smiled as if she rather enjoyed the attack . 
It seems to me bad that's all , Rachel replied . 
Quite likely , said Helen . 
At any other time Rachel would probably have been silenced by her Aunt's candour but this afternoon she was not in the mood to be silenced by any one . 
A quarrel would be welcome . 
You're only half alive , she continued . 
Oh , it's only what's the matter with every one ! she exclaimed . 
No one feels no one does anything but hurt . 
I tell you , Helen , the world's bad . 
It's an agony , living , wanting Here she tore a handful of leaves from a bush and crushed them to control herself . 
The lives of these people , she tried to explain , the aimlessness , the way they live . 
One goes from one to another , and it's all the same . 
One never gets what one wants out of any of them . 
Her emotional state and her confusion would have made her an easy prey if Helen had wished to argue or had wished to draw confidences . 
But instead of talking she fell into a profound silence as they walked on . 
Aimless , trivial , meaningless , oh no what she had seen at tea made it impossible for her to believe that . 
The little jokes , the chatter , the inanities of the afternoon had shrivelled up before her eyes . 
Underneath the likings and spites , the comings together and partings , great things were happening terrible things , because they were so great . 
Her sense of safety was shaken , as if beneath twigs and dead leaves she had seen the movement of a snake . 
She looked at Rachel walking beside her , still crushing the leaves in her fingers and absorbed in her own thoughts . 
She was in love , and she pitied her profoundly . 
But she roused herself from these thoughts and apologised . 
I'm very sorry , she said , but if I'm dull , it's my nature , and it can't be helped . 
By that time they had settled that if anything more was said , they would accept the invitation . 
Chapter XX When considered in detail by Mr. Flushing and Mrs. Ambrose the expedition proved neither dangerous nor difficult . 
They found also that it was not even unusual . 
When it was discovered that six people really wished the same thing the arrangements were soon carried out . 
Since the time of Elizabeth very few people had seen the river , and nothing has been done to change its appearance from what it was to the eyes of the Elizabethan voyagers . 
A few miles of this river were visible from the top of the mountain where some weeks before the party from the hotel had picnicked . 
They came cantering through the trees Mr. and Mrs. Flushing , Helen Ambrose , Rachel , Terence , and St . 
The tired little horses then stopped automatically , and the English dismounted . 
Mrs. Flushing strode to the river bank in high spirits . 
The river was swirling past in the darkness they could just distinguish the smooth moving surface of the water , and the air was full of the sound of it . 
When they all stood upon its deck they found that it was a very small boat which throbbed gently beneath them for a few minutes , and then shoved smoothly through the water . 
They seemed to be driving into the heart of the night , for the trees closed in front of them , and they could hear all round them the rustling of leaves . 
It was as Helen had foreseen the question of nakedness had risen already , although they were half asleep , and almost invisible to each other . 
Mattresses were thrown down , rugs provided , and the three women lay near each other in the soft open air . 
They were very tired , and curtained from each other by the darkness . 
Soon Wilfrid Flushing slept , and Hirst slept . 
Hewet alone lay awake looking straight up into the sky . 
The gentle motion and the black shapes that were drawn ceaselessly across his eyes had the effect of making it impossible for him to think . 
Rachel's presence so near him lulled thought asleep . 
He was drawn on and on away from all he knew , slipping over barriers and past landmarks into unknown waters as the boat glided over the smooth surface of the river . 
The morning was hot and still . 
After breakfast they drew chairs together and sat in an irregular semicircle in the bow . 
An awning above their heads protected them from the heat of the sun , and the breeze which the boat made aired them softly . 
At one point Hewet read part of a poem aloud , but the number of moving things entirely vanquished his words . 
He ceased to read , and no one spoke . 
They moved on under the shelter of the trees . 
There was now a covey of red birds feeding on one of the little islets to the left , or again a blue green parrot flew shrieking from tree to tree . 
As they moved on the country grew wilder and wilder . 
Hewet looked at his books again . 
He looked at her sometimes as if she must know that they were waiting together , and being drawn on together , without being able to offer any resistance . 
Again he read from his book Whoever you are holding me now in your hand , Without one thing all will be useless . 
A bird gave a wild laugh , a monkey chuckled a malicious question , and , as fire fades in the hot sunshine , his words flickered and went out . 
By degrees as the river narrowed , and the high sandbanks fell to level ground thickly grown with trees , the sounds of the forest could be heard . 
It echoed like a hall . 
Once Mr. Flushing rose and spoke to a sailor , and even announced that some time after luncheon the steamer would stop , and they could walk a little way through the forest . 
There are tracks all through the trees there , he explained . 
We're no distance from civilisation yet . 
He scrutinised his wife's painting . 
Too polite to praise it openly , he contented himself with cutting off one half of the picture with one hand , and giving a flourish in the air with the other . 
God ! Hirst exclaimed , staring straight ahead . 
Don't you think it's amazingly beautiful ? Beautiful ? Helen enquired . 
It seemed a strange little word , and Hirst and herself both so small that she forgot to answer him . 
Hewet felt that he must speak . 
That's where the Elizabethans got their style , he mused , staring into the profusion of leaves and blossoms and prodigious fruits . 
Shakespeare ? I hate Shakespeare ! Mrs. Flushing exclaimed and Wilfrid returned admiringly , I believe you're the only person who dares to say that , Alice . 
But Mrs. Flushing went on painting . 
She did not appear to attach much value to her husband's compliment , and painted steadily , sometimes muttering a half audible word or groan . 
The morning was now very hot . 
Look at Hirst ! Mr. Flushing whispered . 
His sheet of paper had slipped on to the deck , his head lay back , and he drew a long snoring breath . 
Terence picked up the sheet of paper and spread it out before Rachel . 
Hewet began to fill in words where Hirst had left spaces , but he soon ceased his pencil rolled on deck . 
Hirst woke up they were then called to luncheon , and while they ate it , the steamer came to a standstill a little way out from the bank . 
The boat which was towed behind them was brought to the side , and the ladies were helped into it . 
They had not strolled more than a few hundred yards along the track which ran parallel with the river before Helen professed to find it was unbearably hot . 
The river breeze had ceased , and a hot steamy atmosphere , thick with scents , came from the forest . 
She seated herself , opened her parasol , and looked at the river which was barred by the stems of trees . 
She turned her back to the trees which disappeared in black shadow behind her . 
I quite agree , said Mrs. Flushing , and proceeded to undo her paint box . 
Her husband strolled about to select an interesting point of view for her . 
Terence and Rachel were left standing by themselves without occupation . 
Terence saw that the time had come as it was fated to come , but although he realised this he was completely calm and master of himself . 
He chose to stand for a few moments talking to Helen , and persuading her to leave her seat . 
Rachel joined him too in advising her to come with them . 
Of all the people I've ever met , he said , you're the least adventurous . 
You might be sitting on green chairs in Hyde Park . 
Are you going to sit there the whole afternoon ? Aren't you going to walk ? Oh , no , said Helen , one's only got to use one's eye . 
There's everything here everything , she repeated in a drowsy tone of voice . 
What will you gain by walking ? You'll be hot and disagreeable by tea time , we shall be cool and sweet , put in Hirst . 
It was thus taken for granted by them both that Terence and Rachel proposed to walk into the woods together with one look at each other they turned away . 
Good bye ! cried Rachel . 
Beware of snakes , Hirst replied . 
He settled himself still more comfortably under the shade of the fallen tree and Helen's figure . 
As they went , Mr. Flushing called after them , We must start in an hour . 
Hewet , please remember that . 
Whether made by man , or for some reason preserved by nature , there was a wide pathway striking through the forest at right angles to the river . 
The path narrowed and turned it was hedged in by dense creepers which knotted tree to tree , and burst here and there into star shaped crimson blossoms . 
The sighing and creaking up above were broken every now and then by the jarring cry of some startled animal . 
The atmosphere was close and the air came at them in languid puffs of scent . 
Terence and Rachel hardly spoke . 
Not only did the silence weigh upon them , but they were both unable to frame any thoughts . 
There was something between them which had to be spoken of . 
One of them had to begin , but which of them was it to be ? Then Hewet picked up a red fruit and threw it as high as he could . 
When it dropped , he would speak . 
They heard the flapping of great wings they heard the fruit go pattering through the leaves and eventually fall with a thud . 
The silence was again profound . 
Does this frighten you ? Terence asked when the sound of the fruit falling had completely died away . 
She repeated I like it . 
She was walking fast , and holding herself more erect than usual . 
You like being with me ? Terence asked . 
Yes , with you , she replied . 
He was silent for a moment . 
Silence seemed to have fallen upon the world . 
That is what I have felt ever since I knew you , he replied . 
He did not seem to be speaking , or she to be hearing . 
Very happy , she answered . 
They continued to walk for some time in silence . 
We love each other , Terence said . 
We love each other , she repeated . 
The silence was then broken by their voices which joined in tones of strange unfamiliar sound which formed no words . 
Faster and faster they walked simultaneously they stopped , clasped each other in their arms , then releasing themselves , dropped to the earth . 
They sat side by side . 
Sounds stood out from the background making a bridge across their silence they heard the swish of the trees and some beast croaking in a remote world . 
We love each other , Terence repeated , searching into her face . 
Their faces were both very pale and quiet , and they said nothing . 
He was afraid to kiss her again . 
By degrees she drew close to him , and rested against him . 
In this position they sat for some time . 
She said Terence once he answered Rachel . 
Terrible terrible , she murmured after another pause , but in saying this she was thinking as much of the persistent churning of the water as of her own feeling . 
On and on it went in the distance , the senseless and cruel churning of the water . 
She observed that the tears were running down Terence's cheeks . 
The next movement was on his part . 
A very long time seemed to have passed . 
He took out his watch . 
We've been gone more than half an hour . 
And it takes that to get back , said Rachel . 
She raised herself very slowly . 
When she was standing up she stretched her arms and drew a deep breath , half a sigh , half a yawn . 
She appeared to be very tired . 
Which way ? she asked . 
They began to walk back down the mossy path again . 
The sighing and creaking continued far overhead , and the jarring cries of animals . 
The butterflies were circling still in the patches of yellow sunlight . 
At first Terence was certain of his way , but as they walked he became doubtful . 
Rachel followed him , stopping where he stopped , turning where he turned , ignorant of the way , ignorant why he stopped or why he turned . 
I don't want to be late , he said , because He put a flower into her hand and her fingers closed upon it quietly . 
We're so late so late so horribly late , he repeated as if he were talking in his sleep . 
They found themselves again in the broad path , like the drive in the English forest , where they had started when they left the others . 
They walked on in silence as people walking in their sleep , and were oddly conscious now and again of the mass of their bodies . 
At the sight of other people they could not go on . 
They stood hand in hand for a minute or two in silence . 
They could not bear to face other people . 
As they approached , Helen turned round and looked at them . 
She looked at them for some time without speaking , and when they were close to her she said quietly Did you meet Mr. Flushing ? He has gone to find you . 
He thought you must be lost , though I told him you weren't lost . 
Hirst half turned round and threw his head back so that he looked at the branches crossing themselves in the air above him . 
Well , was it worth the effort ? he enquired dreamily . 
Hewet sat down on the grass by his side and began to fan himself . 
Rachel had balanced herself near Helen on the end of the tree trunk . 
Very hot , she said . 
You look exhausted anyhow , said Hirst . 
It's fearfully close in those trees , Helen remarked , picking up her book and shaking it free from the dried blades of grass which had fallen between the leaves . 
Then they were all silent , looking at the river swirling past in front of them between the trunks of the trees until Mr. Flushing interrupted them . 
He broke out of the trees a hundred yards to the left , exclaiming sharply Ah , so you found the way after all . 
But it's late much later than we arranged , Hewet . 
He was slightly annoyed , and in his capacity as leader of the expedition , inclined to be dictatorial . 
He spoke quickly , using curiously sharp , meaningless words . 
The heat of the day was going down , and over their cups of tea the Flushings tended to become communicative . 
It seemed to Terence as he listened to them talking , that existence now went on in two different layers . 
Here were the Flushings talking , talking somewhere high up in the air above him , and he and Rachel had dropped to the bottom of the world together . 
But with something of a child's directness , Mrs. Flushing had also the instinct which leads a child to suspect what its elders wish to keep hidden . 
She fixed Terence with her vivid blue eyes and addressed herself to him in particular . 
What would he do , she wanted to know , if the boat ran upon a rock and sank . 
Would you care for anythin' but savin' yourself ? Should I ? No , no , she laughed , not one scrap don't tell me . 
There's only two creatures the ordinary woman cares about , she continued , her child and her dog and I don't believe it's even two with men . 
One reads a lot about love that's why poetry's so dull . 
But what happens in real life , he ? It ain't love ! she cried . 
Mr. Flushing , however , had recovered his urbanity . 
He was smoking a cigarette , and he now answered his wife . 
You must always remember , Alice , he said , that your upbringing was very unnatural unusual , I should say . 
Tell them about the bath , Alice . 
In the stable yard , said Mrs. Flushing . 
Covered with ice in winter . 
We had to get in if we didn't , we were whipped . 
The strong ones lived the others died . 
I'd treat my children just the same if I had any , said Mrs. Flushing . 
The sun was going down , and the water was dark and crimson . 
The river had widened again , and they were passing a little island set like a dark wedge in the middle of the stream . 
Two great white birds with red lights on them stood there on stilt like legs , and the beach of the island was unmarked , save by the skeleton print of birds' feet . 
The branches of the trees on the bank looked more twisted and angular than ever , and the green of the leaves was lurid and splashed with gold . 
Then Hirst began to talk , leaning over the bow . 
It makes one awfully queer , don't you find ? he complained . 
These trees get on one's nerves it's all so crazy . 
What sane person could have conceived a wilderness like this , and peopled it with apes and alligators ? I should go mad if I lived here raving mad . 
Terence attempted to answer him , but Mrs. Ambrose replied instead . 
She bade him look at the way things massed themselves look at the amazing colours , look at the shapes of the trees . 
She seemed to be protecting Terence from the approach of the others . 
Yes , said Mr. Flushing . 
And in my opinion , he continued , the absence of population to which Hirst objects is precisely the significant touch . 
You must admit , Hirst , that a little Italian town even would vulgarise the whole scene , would detract from the vastness the sense of elemental grandeur . 
He swept his hands towards the forest , and paused for a moment , looking at the great green mass , which was now falling silent . 
I own it makes us seem pretty small us , not them . 
He nodded his head at a sailor who leant over the side spitting into the river . 
And that , I think , is what my wife feels , the essential superiority of the peasant Under cover of Mr. Flushing's words , which continued now gently reasoning with St . 
John and persuading him , Terence drew Rachel to the side , pointing ostensibly to a great gnarled tree trunk which had fallen and lay half in the water . 
He wished , at any rate , to be near her , but he found that he could say nothing . 
They could hear Mr. Flushing flowing on , now about his wife , now about art , now about the future of the country , little meaningless words floating high in air . 
As it was becoming cold he began to pace the deck with Hirst . 
Fragments of their talk came out distinctly as they passed art , emotion , truth , reality . 
Is it true , or is it a dream ? Rachel murmured , when they had passed . 
It's true , it's true , he replied . 
But the breeze freshened , and there was a general desire for movement . 
When the party rearranged themselves under cover of rugs and cloaks , Terence and Rachel were at opposite ends of the circle , and could not speak to each other . 
Occasional starts of exquisite joy ran through them , and then they were peaceful again . 
Their eyes turned that way obediently . 
The eyes of Rachel saw nothing . 
Yellow and green shapes did , it is true , pass before them , but she only knew that one was large and another small she did not know that they were trees . 
These directions to look here and there irritated her , as interruptions irritate a person absorbed in thought , although she was not thinking of anything . 
She was annoyed with all that was said , and with the aimless movements of people's bodies , because they seemed to interfere with her and to prevent her from speaking to Terence . 
Very soon Helen saw her staring moodily at a coil of rope , and making no effort to listen . 
Mrs. Ambrose looked and listened obediently enough , but inwardly she was prey to an uneasy mood not readily to be ascribed to any one cause . 
Looking on shore as Mr. Flushing bade her , she thought the country very beautiful , but also sultry and alarming . 
Whether the unfamiliarity of the forest was the cause of it , or something less definite , she could not determine . 
Her mind left the scene and occupied itself with anxieties for Ridley , for her children , for far off things , such as old age and poverty and death . 
Hirst , too , was depressed . 
That , of course , was what came of looking forward to anything one was always disappointed . 
He blamed Wilfrid Flushing , who was so well dressed and so formal he blamed Hewet and Rachel . 
Why didn't they talk ? He looked at them sitting silent and self absorbed , and the sight annoyed him . 
Did they find his dead body there ? Mrs. Flushing exclaimed , leaning forward in her eagerness to see the spot where the explorer had died . 
They found his body and his skins and a notebook , her husband replied . 
But the boat had soon carried them on and left the place behind . 
It was so hot that they scarcely moved , except now to change a foot , or , again , to strike a match . 
Whatever the thoughts of the others , no one said anything for a considerable space . 
They had grown so accustomed to the wall of trees on either side that they looked up with a start when the light suddenly widened out and the trees came to an end . 
It almost reminds one of an English park , said Mr. Flushing . 
Indeed no change could have been greater . 
As far as they could gaze , this lawn rose and sank with the undulating motion of an old English park . 
The change of scene naturally suggested a change of position , grateful to most of them . 
They rose and leant over the rail . 
I've never in my life seen anything bigger than a hare ! Hirst exclaimed with genuine excitement . 
A joke that was by no means proper set them all laughing , and then they turned round and lay at their ease upon the deck . 
Directly they landed , Terence and Rachel drew together slightly in advance of the others . 
Thank God ! Terence exclaimed , drawing a long breath . 
And if we keep ahead we can talk , said Rachel . 
Nevertheless , although their position some yards in advance of the others made it possible for them to say anything they chose , they were both silent . 
You love me ? Terence asked at length , breaking the silence painfully . 
It was difficult , frightening even , oddly embarrassing . 
At one moment he was clear sighted , and , at the next , confused . 
Now I'm going to begin at the beginning , he said resolutely . 
I'm going to tell you what I ought to have told you before . 
In the first place , I've never been in love with other women , but I've had other women . 
I'm very lazy , I'm moody He persisted , in spite of her exclamation , You've got to know the worst of me . 
I'm overcome by a sense of futility incompetence . 
I ought never to have asked you to marry me , I expect . 
I'm a bit of a snob I'm ambitious Oh , our faults ! she cried . 
The shouts were renewed behind , warning them that they were bearing too far to the left . 
Improving their course , he continued , Yes , marriage . 
The feeling that they could not be united until she knew all about him made him again endeavour to explain . 
And the loneliness ! he continued . 
A vision of walking with her through the streets of London came before his eyes . 
We will go for walks together , he said . 
The simplicity of the idea relieved them , and for the first time they laughed . 
They would have liked had they dared to take each other by the hand , but the consciousness of eyes fixed on them from behind had not yet deserted them . 
Books , people , sights Mrs. Nutt , Greeley , Hutchinson , Hewet murmured . 
She glanced curiously at Terence from time to time , observing his grey coat and his purple tie observing the man with whom she was to spend the rest of her life . 
After one of these glances she murmured , Yes , I'm in love . 
There's no doubt I'm in love with you . 
Nevertheless , they remained uncomfortably apart drawn so close together , as she spoke , that there seemed no division between them , and the next moment separate and far away again . 
Feeling this painfully , she exclaimed , It will be a fight . 
You're finer than I am you're much finer . 
He returned her glance and smiled , perceiving , much as she had done , the very small individual things about her which made her delightful to him . 
She was his for ever . 
This barrier being surmounted , innumerable delights lay before them both . 
I'm not finer , he answered . 
I'm only older , lazier a man , not a woman . 
His fingers followed where hers had been , and the touch of his hand upon his face brought back the overpowering sense of unreality . 
This body of his was unreal the whole world was unreal . 
What's happened ? he began . 
Why did I ask you to marry me ? How did it happen ? Did you ask me to marry you ? she wondered . 
They faded far away from each other , and neither of them could remember what had been said . 
We sat upon the ground , he recollected . 
We sat upon the ground , she confirmed him . 
So beautiful was the sound of their voices that by degrees they scarcely listened to the words they framed . 
Long silences came between their words , which were no longer silences of struggle and confusion but refreshing silences , in which trivial thoughts moved easily . 
And aloud to Terence she spoke , This is happiness . 
On the heels of her words he answered , This is happiness , upon which they guessed that the feeling had sprung in both of them the same time . 
They began therefore to describe how this felt and that felt , how like it was and yet how different for they were very different . 
Voices crying behind them never reached through the waters in which they were now sunk . 
The repetition of Hewet's name in short , dissevered syllables was to them the crack of a dry branch or the laughter of a bird . 
A hand dropped abrupt as iron on Rachel's shoulder it might have been a bolt from heaven . 
She fell beneath it , and the grass whipped across her eyes and filled her mouth and ears . 
Through the waving stems she saw a figure , large and shapeless against the sky . 
Rolled this way and that , now seeing only forests of green , and now the high blue heaven she was speechless and almost without sense . 
At last she lay still , all the grasses shaken round her and before her by her panting . 
Over her loomed two great heads , the heads of a man and woman , of Terence and Helen . 
Both were flushed , both laughing , and the lips were moving they came together and kissed in the air above her . 
Broken fragments of speech came down to her on the ground . 
She thought she heard them speak of love and then of marriage . 
Raising herself and sitting up , she too realised Helen's soft body , the strong and hospitable arms , and happiness swelling and breaking in one vast wave . 
For the moment she could not remember who they were . 
Who are they ? she asked , and then recollected . 
Falling into line behind Mr. Flushing , they were careful to leave at least three yards' distance between the toe of his boot and the rim of her skirt . 
Stepping cautiously , they observed the women , who were squatting on the ground in triangular shapes , moving their hands , either plaiting straw or in kneading something in bowls . 
Their hands moved again , but the stare continued . 
As they sauntered about , the stare followed them , passing over their legs , their bodies , their heads , curiously not without hostility , like the crawl of a winter fly . 
When sweetmeats were offered them , they put out great red hands to take them , and felt themselves treading cumbrously like tight coated soldiers among these soft instinctive people . 
But soon the life of the village took no notice of them they had become absorbed in it . 
The women's hands became busy again with the straw their eyes dropped . 
Seeking each other , Terence and Rachel drew together under a tree . 
Peaceful , and even beautiful at first , the sight of the women , who had given up looking at them , made them now feel very cold and melancholy . 
Well , Terence sighed at length , it makes us seem insignificant , doesn't it ? Rachel agreed . 
So it would go on for ever and ever , she said , those women sitting under the trees , the trees and the river . 
They turned away and began to walk through the trees , leaning , without fear of discovery , upon each other's arms . 
The cries of the senseless beasts rang in her ears high and low in the air , as they ran from tree trunk to tree top . 
A falling branch , a foot that slips , and the earth has crushed them or the water drowned them . 
Thus thinking , she kept her eyes anxiously fixed upon the lovers , as if by doing so she could protect them from their fate . 
Turning , she found the Flushings by her side . 
They were talking about the things they had bought and arguing whether they were really old , and whether there were not signs here and there of European influence . 
She was made to look at a brooch , and then at a pair of ear rings . 
But all the time she blamed them for having come on this expedition , for having ventured too far and exposed themselves . 
Then she roused herself and tried to talk , but in a few moments she caught herself seeing a picture of a boat upset on the river in England , at midday . 
But when the sun went down and the steamer turned and began to steam back towards civilisation , again her fears were calmed . 
Words crossed the darkness , but , not knowing where they fell , seemed to lack energy and substance . 
Deep sights proceeded regularly , although with some attempt at suppression , from the large white mound which represented the person of Mrs. Flushing . 
Some philosophical remark directed , apparently , at St . 
The white mound moved , finally lengthened itself and disappeared , and after a few turns and paces St . 
John and Mr. Flushing withdrew , leaving the three chairs still occupied by three silent bodies . 
Voices at a little distance answered her , Yes . 
Through the darkness she was looking at them both , and trying to distinguish him . 
What was there for her to say ? Rachel had passed beyond her guardianship . 
A voice might reach her ears , but never again would it carry as far as it had carried twenty four hours ago . 
Nevertheless , speech seemed to be due from her before she went to bed . 
She wished to speak , but she felt strangely old and depressed . 
D'you realise what you're doing ? she demanded . 
She's young , you're both young and marriage Here she ceased . 
That's what we want to know , they answered , and she guessed that now they were looking at each other . 
It depends on both of you , she stated . 
Her face was turned towards Terence , and although he could hardly see her , he believed that her words really covered a genuine desire to know more about him . 
He raised himself from his semi recumbent position and proceeded to tell her what she wanted to know . 
He spoke as lightly as he could in order to take away her depression . 
I'm twenty seven , and I've about seven hundred a year , he began . 
My temper is good on the whole , and health excellent , though Hirst detects a gouty tendency . 
Well , then , I think I'm very intelligent . 
He paused as if for confirmation . 
Though , unfortunately , rather lazy . 
I intend to allow Rachel to be a fool if she wants to , and Do you find me on the whole satisfactory in other respects ? he asked shyly . 
Yes , I like what I know of you , Helen replied . 
But then one knows so little . 
We shall live in London , he continued , and With one voice they suddenly enquired whether she did not think them the happiest people that she had ever known . 
Hush , she checked them , Mrs. Flushing , remember . 
We've talked too much about ourselves , Terence said . 
Tell us Yes , tell us Rachel echoed . 
They were both in the mood to believe that every one was capable of saying something very profound . 
What can I tell you ? Helen reflected , speaking more to herself in a rambling style than as a prophetess delivering a message . 
She forced herself to speak . 
After all , though I scold Rachel , I'm not much wiser myself . 
I'm older , of course , I'm half way through , and you're just beginning . 
, and you'll be very happy , I've no doubt . 
She passed behind the curtain . 
After sitting in silence for the greater part of the ten minutes she allowed them , they rose and hung over the rail . 
Beneath them the smooth black water slipped away very fast and silently . 
The spark of a cigarette vanished behind them . 
A beautiful voice , Terence murmured . 
Helen had a beautiful voice . 
As they were drawn smoothly along it seemed possessed of immense thickness and endurance . 
They could discern pointed tree tops and blunt rounded tree tops . 
Raising their eyes above the trees , they fixed them on the stars and the pale border of sky above the trees . 
You'd forgotten completely about me , Terence reproached her , taking her arm and beginning to pace the deck , and I never forget you . 
Oh , no , she whispered , she had not forgotten , only the stars the night the dark You're like a bird half asleep in its nest , Rachel . 
You're talking in your sleep . 
Half asleep , and murmuring broken words , they stood in the angle made by the bow of the boat . 
It slipped on down the river . 
The darkness poured down profusely , and left them with scarcely any feeling of life , except that they were standing there together in the darkness . 
Apparently it was not anything unusual that had happened it was that they had become engaged to marry each other . 
They were accordingly left alone until they felt the silence as if , playing in a vast church , the door had been shut on them . 
They were driven to walk alone , and sit alone , to visit secret places where the flowers had never been picked and the trees were solitary . 
They would talk of such questions among books , or out in the sun , or sitting in the shade of a tree undisturbed . 
The book called Silence would not now be the same book that it would have been . 
Why , even the earth sometimes seemed to him very deep not carved into hills and cities and fields , but heaped in great masses . 
He would look out of the window for ten minutes at a time but no , he did not care for the earth swept of human beings . 
He liked human beings he liked them , he suspected , better than Rachel did . 
There she was , swaying enthusiastically over her music , quite forgetful of him , but he liked that quality in her . 
He liked the impersonality which it produced in her . 
Lack of self confidence at the base of most serious faults . 
Dislike of own sex traditional , or founded on fact ? Every woman not so much a rake at heart , as an optimist , because they don't think . 
What do you say , Rachel ? He paused with his pencil in his hand and a sheet of paper on his knee . 
You don't seem to realise that that's what I've been aiming at for the last half hour , he remarked . 
He began turning over the little sheets of note paper which were scattered on the table , conveying the congratulations of their friends . 
all possible wishes for all possible happiness , he read correct , but not very vivid , are they ? They're sheer nonsense ! Rachel exclaimed . 
Think of words compared with sounds ! she continued . 
Think of novels and plays and histories Perched on the edge of the table , she stirred the red and yellow volumes contemptuously . 
She seemed to herself to be in a position where she could despise all human learning . 
Terence looked at them too . 
God , Rachel , you do read trash ! he exclaimed . 
And you're behind the times too , my dear . 
No one dreams of reading this kind of thing now antiquated problem plays , harrowing descriptions of life in the east end oh , no , we've exploded all that . 
But at Cambridge , I can remember , there were times when one fell into ridiculous states of semi coma about five o'clock in the morning . 
Hirst does now , I expect oh , no , Hirst wouldn't . 
No that's not quite it . 
There were the ants who stole the tongue , and I thought you and St . 
John were like those ants very big , very ugly , very energetic , with all your virtues on your backs . 
However , when I talked to you I liked you You fell in love with me , he corrected her . 
You were in love with me all the time , only you didn't know it . 
No , I never fell in love with you , she asserted . 
Oh , what lies what lies ! She crumpled together a handful of letters from Evelyn M. , from Mr. Pepper , from Mrs. Thornbury and Miss Allan , and Susan Warrington . 
It was strange , considering how very different these people were , that they used almost the same sentences when they wrote to congratulate her upon her engagement . 
I won't have eleven children , she asserted I won't have the eyes of an old woman . 
She looks at one up and down , up and down , as if one were a horse . 
He should in no way resemble St . 
At this Terence professed the greatest admiration for St . 
Dwelling upon his good qualities he became seriously convinced of them he had a mind like a torpedo , he declared , aimed at falsehood . 
She did not trouble to deny it , nor did she think good to produce the one unanswerable argument against the merits which Terence admired . 
John Hirst said that she was in love with him she would never forgive that but the argument was not one to appeal to a man . 
She summed up what she felt about him by saying that she would not kiss him supposing he wished it , which was not likely . 
As if some apology were due to Hirst for the kiss which she then bestowed upon him , Terence protested And compared with Hirst I'm a perfect Zany . 
The clock here struck twelve instead of eleven . 
We're wasting the morning I ought to be writing my book , and you ought to be answering these . 
We've only got twenty one whole mornings left , said Rachel . 
And my father'll be here in a day or two . 
At first they had been very happy . 
The walking tour in Switzerland had been a time of jolly companionship and stimulating revelations for both of them . 
Betty had proved herself the ideal comrade . 
'But in London , after the boy's birth , all was changed . 
She was young and strong , with healthy limbs and a body and brain that called urgently for exercise . 
he found women's hats dotted about among his papers . 
Women's wraps and absurd little feminine shoes and umbrellas were in the hall . 
Then the bills began to come in . 
He tried to speak frankly to her . 
The end of it is , you see , Hugh went back to his wife , poor fellow . 
It was his duty , as a married man . 
Well , then , what will it be like when we're married ? What are the things people do feel ? She seemed doubtful . 
Sit on the floor and let me look at you , he commanded . 
Resting her chin on his knee , she looked straight at him . 
You're not beautiful , he began , but I like your face . 
I like the way your hair grows down in a point , and your eyes too they never see anything . 
Your mouth's too big , and your cheeks would be better if they had more colour in them . 
There are moments , he continued , when , if we stood on a rock together , you'd throw me into the sea . 
She sprang up , and began moving about the room , bending and thrusting aside the chairs and tables as if she were indeed striking through the waters . 
He watched her with pleasure she seemed to be cleaving a passage for herself , and dealing triumphantly with the obstacles which would hinder their passage through life . 
At last she was thrown to the floor , where she lay gasping , and crying for mercy . 
I'm a mermaid ! I can swim , she cried , so the game's up . 
Her dress was torn across , and peace being established , she fetched a needle and thread and began to mend the tear . 
She was left , you see , with one foot in the boat , and the other on shore . 
He could sustain a conversation between Mrs. Hunt and Rachel , and carry on a tea party including the Rev . 
William Johnson and Miss Macquoid , the Christian Scientists , with remarkable likeness to the truth . 
Nor were people so solitary and uncommunicative as she believed . 
She should look for vanity for vanity was a common quality first in herself , and then in Helen , in Ridley , in St . 
The hours passed quickly , and seemed to them full to leaking point . 
After a night's solitude they were always ready to begin again . 
As he sat in the room with her , he wished very often to be back again in the thick of life , doing things with Rachel . 
I'd give anything for a sea mist . 
But London , London's the place , Terence continued . 
They looked together at the carpet , as though London itself were to be seen there lying on the floor , with all its spires and pinnacles pricking through the smoke . 
Perhaps I might go and look over Waterloo Bridge for a moment . 
Then I'd go along the Strand past the shops with all the new books in them , and through the little archway into the Temple . 
I always like the quiet after the uproar . 
You hear your own footsteps suddenly quite loud . 
I think I should go and see if I could find dear old Hodgkin the man who writes books about Van Eyck , you know . 
When I left England he was very sad about his tame magpie . 
He suspected that a man had poisoned it . 
And then Russell lives on the next staircase . 
I think you'd like him . 
He's a passion for Handel . 
It isn't as if we were expecting a great deal only to walk about and look at things . 
Only a thousand a year and perfect freedom , he replied . 
How many people in London d'you think have that ? And now you've spoilt it , she complained . 
Now we've got to think of the horrors . 
Is it true , Terence , she demanded , that women die with bugs crawling across their faces ? I think it's very probable , he said . 
But you must admit , Rachel , that we so seldom think of anything but ourselves that an occasional twinge is really rather pleasant . 
A vague sense of dissatisfaction filled her . 
What's so detestable in this country , she exclaimed , is the blue always blue sky and blue sea . 
It's like a curtain all the things one wants are on the other side of that . 
I want to know what's going on behind it . 
I hate these divisions , don't you , Terence ? One person all in the dark about another person . 
Now I liked the Dalloways , she continued , and they're gone . 
I shall never see them again . 
Just by going on a ship we cut ourselves off entirely from the rest of the world . 
She seemed to be able to cut herself adrift from him , and to pass away to unknown places where she had no need of him . 
The thought roused his jealousy . 
I sometimes think you're not in love with me and never will be , he said energetically . 
She started and turned round at his words . 
I don't satisfy you in the way you satisfy me , he continued . 
There's something I can't get hold of in you . 
You don't want me as I want you you're always wanting something else . 
He began pacing up and down the room . 
Perhaps I ask too much , he went on . 
Perhaps it isn't really possible to have what I want . 
Men and women are too different . 
You can't understand you don't understand He came up to where she stood looking at him in silence . 
It seemed to her now that what he was saying was perfectly true , and that she wanted many more things than the love of one human being the sea , the sky . 
She turned again the looked at the distant blue , which was so smooth and serene where the sky met the sea she could not possibly want only one human being . 
Or is it only this damnable engagement ? he continued . 
The hopelessness of their position overcame them both . 
They were impotent they could never love each other sufficiently to overcome all these barriers , and they could never be satisfied with less . 
Realising this with intolerable keenness she stopped in front of him and exclaimed Let's break it off , then . 
The words did more to unite them than any amount of argument . 
As if they stood on the edge of a precipice they clung together . 
They knew that they could not separate painful and terrible it might be , but they were joined for ever . 
They lapsed into silence , and after a time crept together in silence . 
It was long before they moved , and when they moved it was with great reluctance . 
She reflected that she had done all that it was necessary to do in practical matters . 
She had written a great many letters , and had obtained Willoughby's consent . 
She had dwelt so often upon Mr. Hewet's prospects , his profession , his birth , appearance , and temperament , that she had almost forgotten what he was really like . 
She might more profitably consider what would happen in three years' time , or what might have happened if Rachel had been left to explore the world under her father's guidance . 
The result , she was honest enough to own , might have been better who knows ? She did not disguise from herself that Terence had faults . 
She was inclined to think him too easy and tolerant , just as he was inclined to think her perhaps a trifle hard no , it was rather that she was uncompromising . 
In some ways she found St . 
John preferable but then , of course , he would never have suited Rachel . 
John was established , for although she fluctuated between irritation and interest in a way that did credit to the candour of her disposition , she liked his company on the whole . 
He took her outside this little world of love and emotion . 
He had a grasp of facts . 
Supposing , for instance , that England made a sudden move towards some unknown port on the coast of Morocco , St . 
It was not that she was jealous of them , but she did undoubtedly envy them their great unknown future that lay before them . 
Slipping from one such thought to another , she was at the dining room with fruit in her hands . 
Sometimes she stopped to straighten a candle stooping with the heat , or disturbed some too rigid arrangement of the chairs . 
Returning from the dining room for the third time , she perceived that one of the arm chairs was now occupied by St . 
Her eyes rested on him gently and then passed on over his head . 
Finally she took the chair opposite . 
I didn't want to come here , he said at last , but I was positively driven to it . 
Evelyn M. , he groaned . 
He sat up , and began to explain with mock solemnity how the detestable woman was set upon marrying him . 
She pursues me about the place . 
This morning she appeared in the smoking room . 
All I could do was to seize my hat and fly . 
I didn't want to come , but I couldn't stay and face another meal with her . 
Well , we must make the best of it , Helen replied philosophically . 
It was very hot , and they were indifferent to any amount of silence , so that they lay back in their chairs waiting for something to happen . 
The bell rang for luncheon , but there was no sound of movement in the house . 
Was there any news ? Helen asked anything in the papers ? St . 
O yes , he had a letter from home , a letter from his mother , describing the suicide of the parlour maid . 
She was called Susan Jane , and she came into the kitchen one afternoon , and said that she wanted cook to keep her money for her she had twenty pounds in gold . 
Then she went out to buy herself a hat . 
She came in at half past five and said that she had taken poison . 
They had only just time to get her into bed and call a doctor before she died . 
There'll have to be an inquest , said St . 
Why had she done it ? He shrugged his shoulders . 
Why do people kill themselves ? Why do the lower orders do any of the things they do do ? Nobody knows . 
The bell's run fifteen minutes and they're not down , said Helen at length . 
When they appeared , St . 
John explained why it had been necessary for him to come to luncheon . 
He imitated Evelyn's enthusiastic tone as she confronted him in the smoking room . 
She thinks there can be nothing quite so thrilling as mathematics , so I've lent her a large work in two volumes . 
It'll be interesting to see what she makes of it . 
Rachel could now afford to laugh at him . 
Evelyn M. , for example but that was told me in confidence . 
You've heard about poor Sinclair , too ? Oh , yes , I've heard about Sinclair . 
He's retired to his mine with a revolver . 
He writes to Evelyn daily that he's thinking of committing suicide . 
I've assured her that he's never been so happy in his life , and , on the whole , she's inclined to agree with me . 
But then she's entangled herself with Perrott , St . 
John continued and I have reason to think , from something I saw in the passage , that everything isn't as it should be between Arthur and Susan . 
There's a young female lately arrived from Manchester . 
A very good thing if it were broken off , in my opinion . 
Their married life is something too horrible to contemplate . 
Oh , and I distinctly heard old Mrs. Paley rapping out the most fearful oaths as I passed her bedroom door . 
It's supposed that she tortures her maid in private it's practically certain she does . 
One can tell it from the look in her eyes . 
When you're eighty and the gout tweezes you , you'll be swearing like a trooper , Terence remarked . 
You'll be very fat , very testy , very disagreeable . 
He addressed himself to Helen . 
They've hoofed out the prostitute . 
One night while we were away that old numskull Thornbury was doddering about the passages very late . 
He saw the Signora Lola Mendoza , as she calls herself , cross the passage in her nightgown . 
He communicated his suspicions next morning to Elliot , with the result that Rodriguez went to the woman and gave her twenty four hours in which to clear out of the place . 
No one seems to have enquired into the truth of the story , or to have asked Thornbury and Elliot what business it was of theirs they had it entirely their own way . 
I propose that we should all sign a Round Robin , go to Rodriguez in a body , and insist upon a full enquiry . 
Something's got to be done , don't you agree ? Hewet remarked that there could be no doubt as to the lady's profession . 
Still , he added , it's a great shame , poor woman only I don't see what's to be done I quite agree with you , St . 
John , Helen burst out . 
The hypocritical smugness of the English makes my blood boil . 
A man who's made a fortune in trade as Mr. Thornbury has is bound to be twice as bad as any prostitute . 
The argument led to some profoundly gloomy statements of a general nature . 
John added , you couldn't trust these foreigners They were interrupted by sounds of strife at the further end of the table . 
Rachel appealed to her aunt . 
A more ordinary sight than you are , he concluded , except for the tear across your dress has never been seen . 
However , stay at home if you want to . 
She appealed again to her aunt . 
It wasn't the being looked at , she explained , but the things people were sure to say . 
She liked women , but where emotion was concerned they were as flies on a lump of sugar . 
They would be certain to ask her questions . 
Indeed , the retirement of their life since their engagement had made her so sensitive , that she was not exaggerating her case . 
They insist upon seeing you . 
They've got nothing to say they don't care a rap for you but you've got to go to lunch or to tea or to dinner , and if you don't you're damned . 
He cut Helen short with a protest . 
He hated even the semblance of cynicism in women . 
Nonsense , nonsense , he remarked abruptly . 
Terence and Rachel glanced at each other across the table , which meant that when they were married they would not behave like that . 
The entrance of Ridley into the conversation had a strange effect . 
It became at once more formal and more polite . 
It would have been impossible to talk quite easily of anything that came into their heads , and to say the word prostitute as simply as any other word . 
The talk now turned upon literature and politics , and Ridley told stories of the distinguished people he had known in his youth . 
Such talk was of the nature of an art , and the personalities and informalities of the young were silenced . 
As they rose to go , Helen stopped for a moment , leaning her elbows on the table . 
I haven't been listening , because I've been looking at you . 
You looked very beautiful I wish you'd go on sitting for ever . 
She led the way to the drawing room , where she took up her embroidery , and began again to dissuade Terence from walking down to the hotel in this heat . 
But the more she dissuaded , the more he was determined to go . 
He became irritated and obstinate . 
There were moments when they almost disliked each other . 
He wanted other people he wanted Rachel , to see them with him . 
He suspected that Mrs. Ambrose would now try to dissuade her from going . 
He was annoyed by all this space and shade and beauty , and Hirst , recumbent , drooping a magazine from his wrist . 
I'm going , he repeated . 
Rachel needn't come unless she wants to . 
If you go , Hewet , I wish you'd make enquiries about the prostitute , said Hirst . 
Look here , he added , I'll walk half the way with you . 
I shall be back at four , he remarked to Helen , when I shall lie down on the sofa and relax all my muscles completely . 
So you're going , Rachel ? Helen asked . 
You won't stay with me ? She smiled , but she might have been sad . 
Was she sad , or was she really laughing ? Rachel could not tell , and she felt for the moment very uncomfortable between Helen and Terence . 
Then she turned away , saying merely that she would go with Terence , on condition that he did all the talking . 
A narrow border of shadow ran along the road , which was broad enough for two , but not broad enough for three . 
John therefore dropped a little behind the pair , and the distance between them increased by degrees . 
Walking with a view to digestion , and with one eye upon his watch , he looked from time to time at the pair in front of him . 
They seemed to be so happy , so intimate , although they were walking side by side much as other people walk . 
They turned slightly toward each other now and then , and said something which he thought must be something very private . 
They were really disputing about Helen's character , and Terence was trying to explain why it was that she annoyed him so much sometimes . 
John thought that they were saying things which they did not want him to hear , and was led to think of his own isolation . 
These people were happy , and in some ways he despised them for being made happy so simply , and in other ways he envied them . 
He was much more remarkable than they were , but he was not happy . 
People never liked him he doubted sometimes whether even Helen liked him . 
Happiness , happiness , what was happiness ? He was never happy . 
He saw too clearly the little vices and deceits and flaws of life , and , seeing them , it seemed to him honest to take notice of them . 
That was the reason , no doubt , why people generally disliked him , and complained that he was heartless and bitter . 
Certainly they never told him the things he wanted to be told , that he was nice and kind , and that they liked him . 
But it was true that half the sharp things that he said about them were said because he was unhappy or hurt himself . 
But he admitted that he had very seldom told any one that he cared for them , and when he had been demonstrative , he had generally regretted it afterwards . 
His feelings about Terence and Rachel were so complicated that he had never yet been able to bring himself to say that he was glad that they were going to be married . 
He saw their faults so clearly , and the inferior nature of a great deal of their feeling for each other , and he expected that their love would not last . 
What , after all , did people's faults matter in comparison with what was good in them ? He resolved that he would now tell them what he felt . 
He quickened his pace and came up with them just as they reached the corner where the lane joined the main road . 
They stood still and began to laugh at him , and to ask him whether the gastric juices but he stopped them and began to speak very quickly and stiffly . 
D'you remember the morning after the dance ? he demanded . 
It was here we sat , and you talked nonsense , and Rachel made little heaps of stones . 
I , on the other hand , had the whole meaning of life revealed to me in a flash . 
He paused for a second , and drew his lips together in a tight little purse . 
It seems to me to explain everything . 
So , on the whole , I'm very glad that you two are going to be married . 
He then turned round abruptly , without looking at them , and walked back to the villa . 
He felt both exalted and ashamed of himself for having thus said what he felt . 
How odd it seemed nothing had changed . 
Sometimes they went straight through and out into the garden by the swing door , sometimes they stopped for a few minutes and bent over the tables and began turning over the newspapers . 
Terence soon gave up looking at them , for he was tired and , closing his eyes , he fell half asleep in his chair . 
But after a time her thoughts wandered , and she began to think of the dance , which had been held in this room , only then the room itself looked quite different . 
Glancing round , she could hardly believe that it was the same room . 
And now the room was dim and quiet , and beautiful silent people passed through it , to whom you could go and say anything you liked . 
The sound of Terence , breathing deep in his slumber , confirmed her in her calm . 
John had said , that seems to explain it all . 
Yes , but it was not the love of man for woman , of Terence for Rachel . 
Although they sat so close together , they had ceased to be little separate bodies they had ceased to struggle and desire one another . 
There seemed to be peace between them . 
It might be love , but it was not the love of man for woman . 
Naturally , looking like that he was lazy , and ambitious , and full of moods and faults . 
For perhaps two minutes Miss Allan had been standing at a little distance looking at the couple lying back so peacefully in their arm chairs . 
She could not make up her mind whether to disturb them or not , and then , seeming to recollect something , she came across the hall . 
The sound of her approach woke Terence , who sat up and rubbed his eyes . 
He heard Miss Allan talking to Rachel . 
Well , she was saying , this is very nice . 
It is very nice indeed . 
Getting engaged seems to be quite the fashion . 
It cannot often happen that two couples who have never seen each other before meet in the same hotel and decide to get married . 
Then she paused and smiled , and seemed to have nothing more to say , so that Terence rose and asked her whether it was true that she had finished her book . 
Some one had said that she had really finished it . 
Her face lit up she turned to him with a livelier expression than usual . 
Yes , I think I can fairly say I have finished it , she said . 
That is , omitting Swinburne Beowulf to Browning I rather like the two B's myself . 
Beowulf to Browning , she repeated , I think that is the kind of title which might catch one's eye on a railway book stall . 
She was indeed very proud that she had finished her book , for no one knew what an amount of determination had gone to the making of it . 
They only allow one seventy thousand words , you see . 
Only seventy thousand words ! Terence exclaimed . 
Yes , and one has to say something about everybody , Miss Allan added . 
That is what I find so difficult , saying something different about everybody . 
Then she thought that she had said enough about herself , and she asked whether they had come down to join the tennis tournament . 
The young people are very keen about it . 
It begins again in half an hour . 
You're the remarkable person who doesn't like ginger . 
And in that I quite agree with her , said a voice behind Mrs. Thornbury had overheard the last few words about not liking ginger . 
who used to give it to us when we were small , and we never had the courage to tell her we didn't like it . 
We just had to put it out in the shrubbery she had a big house near Bath . 
She would have passed them , but Mrs. Thornbury went up and stopped her . 
Thank you , Hughling's better , she replied , in answer to Mrs. Thornbury's enquiry , but he's not an easy patient . 
He wants to know what his temperature is , and if I tell him he gets anxious , and if I don't tell him he suspects . 
, one can't feel that Dr . 
Rodriguez is the same as a proper doctor . 
And she hurried past them in search of the head waiter . 
Poor thing ! Mrs. Thornbury exclaimed . 
I know how wretched it is to be ill in a hotel , Mrs. Thornbury remarked , once more leading the way with Rachel to the garden . 
I spent six weeks on my honeymoon in having typhoid at Venice , she continued . 
But even so , I look back upon them as some of the happiest weeks in my life . 
Ah , yes , she said , taking Rachel's arm , you think yourself happy now , but it's nothing to the happiness that comes afterwards . 
And I assure you I could find it in my heart to envy you young people ! You've a much better time than we had , I may tell you . 
When I look back upon it , I can hardly believe how things have changed . 
Indeed , I may say they looked upon him as their own son . 
This long life and all these children had left her very smooth they seemed to have rubbed away the marks of individuality , and to have left only what was old and maternal . 
And the things you young people are going to see ! Mrs. Thornbury continued . 
When I see how the world has changed in my lifetime , she went on , I can set no limit to what may happen in the next fifty years . 
Ah , no , Mr. Pepper , I don't agree with you in the least , she laughed , interrupting his gloomy remark about things going steadily from bad to worse . 
I know I ought to feel that , but I don't , I'm afraid . 
They're going to be much better people than we were . 
Surely everything goes to prove that . 
All round me I see women , young women , women with household cares of every sort , going out and doing things that we should not have thought it possible to do . 
And they remain women , Mrs. Thornbury added . 
They give a great deal to their children . 
As she said this she smiled slightly in the direction of Susan and Rachel . 
They did not like to be included in the same lot , but they both smiled a little self consciously , and Arthur and Terence glanced at each other too . 
She made them feel that they were all in the same boat together , and they looked at the women they were going to marry and compared them . 
I really must congratulate you , Susan remarked , as she leant across the table for the jam . 
There seemed to be no foundation for St . 
John's gossip about Arthur and Susan . 
Sunburnt and vigorous they sat side by side , with their racquets across their knees , not saying much but smiling slightly all the time . 
Evelyn had not spoken , but she had been looking from Susan to Rachel . 
Well they had both made up their minds very easily , they had done in a very few weeks what it sometimes seemed to her that she would never be able to do . 
It was that slowness , that confidence , that content which she hated , she thought to herself . 
She looked at them sharply . 
Of course they were happy and content , but there must be better things than that . 
Surely one could get nearer to life , one could get more out of life , one could enjoy more and feel more than they would ever do . 
Rachel in particular looked so young what could she know of life ? She became restless , and getting up , crossed over to sit beside Rachel . 
She reminded her that she had promised to join her club . 
The bother is , she went on , that I mayn't be able to start work seriously till October . 
I've just had a letter from a friend of mine whose brother is in business in Moscow . 
They want me to stay with them , and as they're in the thick of all the conspiracies and anarchists , I've a good mind to stop on my way home . 
She wanted to make Rachel see how thrilling it was . 
My friend knows a girl of fifteen who's been sent to Siberia for life merely because they caught her addressing a letter to an anarchist . 
And the letter wasn't from her , either . 
I'd give all I have in the world to help on a revolution against the Russian government , and it's bound to come . 
She looked from Rachel to Terence . 
It was brains that were needed . 
If only people with brains of course they would want a room , a nice room , in Bloomsbury preferably , where they could meet once a week . 
John , although , as the years went by , the fight would become harder and harder . 
Perhaps , though , she would settle down perhaps , after all , she would marry Perrott . 
While his mind was half occupied with what she was saying , he thought of her probable destiny , the light clouds of tobacco smoke serving to obscure his face from her eyes . 
Terence smoked and Arthur smoked and Evelyn smoked , so that the air was full of the mist and fragrance of good tobacco . 
The cool green light fell through the leaves of the tree , and there were soft crescents and diamonds of sunshine upon the plates and the tablecloth . 
Mrs. Thornbury , after watching them all for a time in silence , began to ask Rachel kindly questions When did they all go back ? Oh , they expected her father . 
he would be so happy , she felt sure . 
She sighed very slightly , remembering the past . 
There were three reasons , and they were very good ones , he said . 
Leaning forward , she went on with the conversation . 
She didn't think that people who were fond of one sport often care for another , although her father was an exception . 
You always knew where to find him if he were wanted he would be in his study with a book . 
Very likely it would be an old , old book , some fusty old thing that no one else would dream of reading . 
The others did not move . 
They're very happy ! said Mrs. Thornbury , looking benignantly after them . 
Rachel agreed they seemed to be so certain of themselves they seemed to know exactly what they wanted . 
Evelyn laid hold of Rachel's skirt and protested . 
Why should they go ? It was still early , and she had so many things to say to them . 
No , said Terence , we must go , because we walk so slowly . 
We stop and look at things , and we talk . 
What d'you talk about ? Evelyn enquired , upon which he laughed and said that they talked about everything . 
Mrs. Thornbury went with them to the gate , trailing very slowly and gracefully across the grass and the gravel , and talking all the time about flowers and birds . 
It was a good thing to have some occupation which was quite independent of other people , she said , when one got old . 
But the odd thing was that one never felt old . 
She always felt that she was twenty five , not a day more or a day less , but , of course , one couldn't expect other people to agree to that . 
It must be very wonderful , very wonderful indeed . 
She stood talking to them at the gate for a long time she seemed reluctant that they should go . 
Only the stiff and hostile plants of the south , whose fleshy leaves seemed to be grown upon spines , still remained standing upright and defied the sun to beat them down . 
It was too hot to talk , and it was not easy to find any book that would withstand the power of the sun . 
There is a gentle nymph not far from hence , he read , That with moist curb sways the smooth Severn stream . 
Sabrina is her name , a virgin pure Whilom she was the daughter of Locrine , That had the sceptre from his father Brute . 
Owing to the heat and the dancing air the garden too looked strange the trees were either too near or too far , and her head almost certainly ached . 
She was not quite certain , and therefore she did not know , whether to tell Terence now , or to let him go on reading . 
She sat up and said as she had determined , My head aches so that I shall go indoors . 
He was half way through the next verse , but he dropped the book instantly . 
Your head aches ? he repeated . 
For a few moments they sat looking at one another in silence , holding each other's hands . 
Terence was unreasonably reassured by her words , as he had been unreasonably depressed the moment before . 
She supposed , therefore , that she was now quite well again . 
At the same time the wall of her room was painfully white , and curved slightly , instead of being straight and flat . 
Turning her eyes to the window , she was not reassured by what she saw there . 
She shut her eyes , and the pulse in her head beat so strongly that each thump seemed to tread upon a nerve , piercing her forehead with a little stab of pain . 
It might not be the same headache , but she certainly had a headache . 
After a considerable number of vain experiments , she resolved to put the matter beyond a doubt . 
She got out of bed and stood upright , holding on to the brass ball at the end of the bedstead . 
She accepted the idea that she would have to stay in bed all day long , and as she laid her head on the pillow , relinquished the happiness of the day . 
At one point the door opened , and Helen came in with a little dark man who had it was the chief thing she noticed about him very hairy hands . 
She was drowsy and intolerably hot , and as he seemed shy and obsequious she scarcely troubled to answer him , although she understood that he was a doctor . 
At another point the door opened and Terence came in very gently , smiling too steadily , as she realised , for it to be natural . 
It did not matter she would see him to morrow when things would be ordinary again . 
The recollection of what she had felt , or of what she had been doing and thinking three days before , had faded entirely . 
She was completely cut off , and unable to communicate with the rest of the world , isolated alone with her body . 
Hours and hours would pass thus , without getting any further through the morning , or again a few minutes would lead from broad daylight to the depths of the night . 
You won't mind ? Opening her eyes , Rachel saw not only Helen but a nurse in spectacles , whose face vaguely recalled something that she had once seen . 
She had seen her in the chapel . 
Nurse McInnis , said Helen , and the nurse smiled steadily as they all did , and said that she did not find many people who were frightened of her . 
She realised that there is nothing to prevent nights from doing this if they choose . 
Coming nearer and nearer across the great space of the room , she stood at last above Rachel's head and said , Not asleep ? Let me make you comfortable . 
She put down the candle and began to arrange the bedclothes . 
It struck Rachel that a woman who sat playing cards in a cavern all night long would have very cold hands , and she shrunk from the touch of them . 
Why , there's a toe all the way down there ! the woman said , proceeding to tuck in the bedclothes . 
Rachel did not realise that the toe was hers . 
She stood looking down upon Rachel for an enormous length of time . 
And the quieter you lie the sooner you will be well , she repeated . 
Rachel kept her eyes fixed upon the peaked shadow on the ceiling , and all her energy was concentrated upon the desire that this shadow should move . 
But the shadow and the woman seemed to be eternally fixed above her . 
When she opened them again several more hours had passed , but the night still lasted interminably . 
The woman was still playing cards , only she sat now in a tunnel under a river , and the light stood in a little archway in the wall above her . 
She cried Terence ! and the peaked shadow again moved across the ceiling , as the woman with an enormous slow movement rose , and they both stood still above her . 
It's just as difficult to keep you in bed as it was to keep Mr. Forrest in bed , the woman said , and he was such a tall gentleman . 
But the little old women became Helen and Nurse McInnis after a time , standing in the window together whispering , whispering incessantly . 
He counted up the number of days that would almost certainly be spoilt for them . 
The days were completely wasted upon trifling , immaterial things , for after three weeks of such intimacy and intensity all the usual occupations were unbearably flat and beside the point . 
The least intolerable occupation was to talk to St . 
Twice every day he went in to sit with Rachel , and twice every day the same thing happened . 
On going into her room , which was not very dark , where the music was lying about as usual , and her books and letters , his spirits rose instantly . 
When he saw her he felt completely reassured . 
She did not look very ill . 
On Thursday morning when Terence went into her room he felt the usual increase of confidence . 
She turned round and made an effort to remember certain facts from the world that was so many millions of miles away . 
You have come up from the hotel ? she asked . 
No I'm staying here for the present , he said . 
We've just had luncheon , he continued , and the mail has come in . 
There's a bundle of letters for you letters from England . 
Instead of saying , as he meant her to say , that she wished to see them , she said nothing for some time . 
You see , there they go , rolling off the edge of the hill , she said suddenly . 
Rolling , Rachel ? What do you see rolling ? There's nothing rolling . 
The old woman with the knife , she replied , not speaking to Terence in particular , and looking past him . 
As she appeared to be looking at a vase on the shelf opposite , he rose and took it down . 
Now they can't roll any more , he said cheerfully . 
Nevertheless she lay gazing at the same spot , and paid him no further attention although he spoke to her . 
He became so profoundly wretched that he could not endure to sit with her , but wandered about until he found St . 
John , who was reading The Times in the verandah . 
He laid it aside patiently , and heard all that Terence had to say about delirium . 
He was very patient with Terence . 
He treated him like a child . 
Instead of lasting five days it was going to last ten days . 
Rodriguez was understood to say that there were well known varieties of this illness . 
Rodriguez appeared to think that they were treating the illness with undue anxiety . 
He seemed curiously unwilling to sit down . 
A high temperature , he said , looking furtively about the room , and appearing to be more interested in the furniture and in Helen's embroidery than in anything else . 
In this climate you must expect a high temperature . 
You need not be alarmed by that . 
, and the pulse continues excellent . 
Thereupon he bowed and slipped out . 
Unconsciously he took Rodriguez' side against Helen , who seemed to have taken an unreasonable prejudice against him . 
When Saturday came it was evident that the hours of the day must be more strictly organised than they had been . 
John offered his services he said that he had nothing to do , and that he might as well spend the day at the villa if he could be of use . 
He always forgot to pull down the blinds , so that he sat in bright sunshine , which worried him without his knowing what was the cause of it . 
The room was terribly stiff and uncomfortable . 
There were hats in the chairs , and medicine bottles among the books . 
On the whole , quieter , I think . 
The answer would be one or the other . 
As usual she seemed to reserve something which she did not say , and Terence was conscious that they disagreed , and , without saying it aloud , were arguing against each other . 
But she was too hurried and pre occupied to talk . 
The strain of listening and the effort of making practical arrangements and seeing that things worked smoothly , absorbed all Terence's power . 
Involved in this long dreary nightmare , he did not attempt to think what it amounted to . 
Rachel was ill that was all he must see that there was medicine and milk , and that things were ready when they were wanted . 
Thought had ceased life itself had come to a standstill . 
Sunday was rather worse than Saturday had been , simply because the strain was a little greater every day , although nothing else had changed . 
The separate feelings of pleasure , interest , and pain , which combine to make up the ordinary day , were merged in one long drawn sensation of sordid misery and profound boredom . 
He had never been so bored since he was shut up in the nursery alone as a child . 
Nevertheless the day followed the usual forms . 
At certain hours they went into the dining room , and when they sat round the table they talked about indifferent things . 
John usually made it his business to start the talk and to keep it from dying out . 
I've discovered the way to get Sancho past the white house , said St . 
John on Sunday at luncheon . 
You crackle a piece of paper in his ear , then he bolts for about a hundred yards , but he goes on quite well after that . 
Yes , but he wants corn . 
You should see that he has corn . 
I don't think much of the stuff they give him and Angelo seems a dirty little rascal . 
There was then a long silence . 
Ridley murmured a few lines of poetry under his breath , and remarked , as if to conceal the fact that he had done so , Very hot to day . 
Two degrees higher than it was yesterday , said St . 
I wonder where these nuts come from , he observed , taking a nut out of the plate , turning it over in his fingers , and looking at it curiously . 
London , I should think , said Terence , looking at the nut too . 
A competent man of business could make a fortune here in no time , St . 
I suppose the heat does something funny to people's brains . 
Even the English go a little queer . 
Anyhow they're hopeless people to deal with . 
They kept me three quarters of an hour waiting at the chemist's this morning , for no reason whatever . 
There was another long pause . 
Then Ridley enquired , Rodriguez seems satisfied ? Quite , said Terence with decision . 
It's just got to run its course . 
Whereupon Ridley heaved a deep sigh . 
He was genuinely sorry for every one , but at the same time he missed Helen considerably , and was a little aggrieved by the constant presence of the two young men . 
They moved back into the drawing room . 
Look here , Hirst , said Terence , there's nothing to be done for two hours . 
He consulted the sheet pinned to the door . 
You go and lie down . 
Chailey sits with Rachel while Helen has her luncheon . 
It was asking a good deal of Hirst to tell him to go without waiting for a sight of Helen . 
However , as they were on an expedition together , he had made up his mind to obey . 
Helen was very late in coming down . 
She looked like a person who has been sitting for a long time in the dark . 
She was pale and thinner , and the expression of her eyes was harassed but determined . 
She ate her luncheon quickly , and seemed indifferent to what she was doing . 
Either you've got to find another doctor , or you must tell Rodriguez to stop coming , and I'll manage for myself . 
It's no use for him to say that Rachel's better she's not better she's worse . 
Terence suffered a terrific shock , like that which he had suffered when Rachel said , My head aches . 
He stilled it by reflecting that Helen was overwrought , and he was upheld in this opinion by his obstinate sense that she was opposed to him in the argument . 
Do you think she's in danger ? he asked . 
No one can go on being as ill as that day after day Helen replied . 
She looked at him , and spoke as if she felt some indignation with somebody . 
Very well , I'll talk to Rodriguez this afternoon , he replied . 
Helen went upstairs at once . 
Nothing now could assuage Terence's anxiety . 
But he wanted a third person to confirm him in his belief . 
Hewet stood firmly between him and the door . 
He was determined to see for himself what kind of man he was . 
His confidence in the man vanished as he looked at him and saw his insignificance , his dirty appearance , his shiftiness , and his unintelligent , hairy face . 
It was strange that he had never seen this before . 
You won't object , of course , if we ask you to consult another doctor ? he continued . 
At this the little man became openly incensed . 
It is not serious , I assure you . 
The young lady is not seriously ill , and I am a doctor . 
The lady of course is frightened , he sneered . 
The name and address of the doctor is ? Terence continued . 
There is no other doctor , Rodriguez replied sullenly . 
Every one has confidence in me . 
Look ! I will show you . 
He took out a packet of old letters and began turning them over as if in search of one that would confute Terence's suspicions . 
As he searched , he began to tell a story about an English lord who had trusted him a great English lord , whose name he had , unfortunately , forgotten . 
There is no other doctor in the place , he concluded , still turning over the letters . 
Never mind , said Terence shortly . 
I will make enquiries for myself . 
Rodriguez put the letters back in his pocket . 
Very well , he remarked . 
After this Terence could no longer stay downstairs . 
He went up , knocked at Rachel's door , and asked Helen whether he might see her for a few minutes . 
He had not seen her yesterday . 
She made no objection , and went and sat at a table in the window . 
Terence sat down by the bedside . 
She looked as though she were entirely concentrated upon the effort of keeping alive . 
Her lips were drawn , and her cheeks were sunken and flushed , though without colour . 
She opened them completely when he kissed her . 
But she only saw an old woman slicing a man's head off with a knife . 
There it falls ! she murmured . 
She then turned to Terence and asked him anxiously some question about a man with mules , which he could not understand . 
Why doesn't he come ? Why doesn't he come ? she repeated . 
He rose to go , for he could not endure to listen any longer his heart beat quickly and painfully with anger and misery . 
As he passed Helen she asked him in the same weary , unnatural , but determined voice to fetch her more ice , and to have the jug outside filled with fresh milk . 
When he had done these errands he went to find Hirst . 
Exhausted and very hot , St . 
John had fallen asleep on a bed , but Terence woke him without scruple . 
Helen thinks she's worse , he said . 
There's no doubt she's frightfully ill . 
We must get another doctor . 
But there is no other doctor , said Hirst drowsily , sitting up and rubbing his eyes . 
Don't be a damned fool ! Terence exclaimed . 
Of course there's another doctor , and , if there isn't , you've got to find one . 
It ought to have been done days ago . 
I'm going down to saddle the horse . 
He could not stay still in one place . 
In less than ten minutes St . 
We ought to have done it days ago , Hewet repeated angrily . 
She's better ? Mrs. Flushing enquired abruptly they did not attempt to shake hands . 
If anything , they think she's worse . 
Mrs. Flushing seemed to consider for a moment or two , looking straight at Terence all the time . 
Let me tell you , she said , speaking in nervous jerks , it's always about the seventh day one begins to get anxious . 
I daresay you've been sittin' here worryin' by yourself . 
You think she's bad , but any one comin' with a fresh eye would see she was better . 
Mr. Elliot's had fever he's all right now , she threw out . 
It wasn't anythin' she caught on the expedition . 
What's it matter a few days' fever ? My brother had fever for twenty six days once . 
And in a week or two he was up and about . 
We gave him nothin' but milk and arrowroot Here Mrs. Chailey came in with a message . 
I'm wanted upstairs , said Terence . 
You see she'll be better , Mrs. Flushing jerked out as he left the room . 
She wandered from room to room looking for some one to talk to , but all the rooms were empty . 
Terence went upstairs , stood inside the door to take Helen's directions , looked over at Rachel , but did not attempt to speak to her . 
She appeared vaguely conscious of his presence , but it seemed to disturb her , and she turned , so that she lay with her back to him . 
The sights were all concerned in some plot , some adventure , some escape . 
The nature of what they were doing changed incessantly , although there was always a reason behind it , which she must endeavour to grasp . 
Now they were among trees and savages , now they were on the sea , now they were on the tops of high towers now they jumped now they flew . 
But just as the crisis was about to happen , something invariably slipped in her brain , so that the whole effort had to begin over again . 
At last the faces went further away she fell into a deep pool of sticky water , which eventually closed over her head . 
She saw nothing and heard nothing but a faint booming sound , which was the sound of the sea rolling over her head . 
While all her tormentors thought that she was dead , she was not dead , but curled up at the bottom of the sea . 
There she lay , sometimes seeing darkness , sometimes light , while every now and then some one turned her over at the bottom of the sea . 
It was quite impossible , so they said , to find him . 
With his experience of the country , St . 
He succeeded in finding him , and eventually forced the unwilling man to leave his young wife and return forthwith . 
They reached the villa at midday on Tuesday . 
Terence came out to receive them , and St . 
John was struck by the fact that he had grown perceptibly thinner in the interval he was white too his eyes looked strange . 
But the curt speech and the sulky masterful manner of Dr . 
Lesage impressed them both favourably , although at the same time it was obvious that he was very much annoyed at the whole affair . 
They quarrelled about a road , the Portsmouth Road . 
John said that it is macadamised where it passes Hindhead , and Terence knew as well as he knew his own name that it is not macadamised at that point . 
When it grew dark and the lamps were brought in , Terence felt unable to control his irritation any longer . 
John went to bed in a state of complete exhaustion , bidding Terence good night with rather more affection than usual because of their quarrel , and Ridley retired to his books . 
Left alone , Terence walked up and down the room he stood at the open window . 
The lights were coming out one after another in the town beneath , and it was very peaceful and cool in the garden , so that he stepped out on to the terrace . 
He allowed himself to lapse into forgetfulness of everything . 
As if a wind that had been raging incessantly suddenly fell asleep , the fret and strain and anxiety which had been pressing on him passed away . 
He seemed to stand in an unvexed space of air , on a little island by himself he was free and immune from pain . 
It did not matter whether Rachel was well or ill it did not matter whether they were apart or together nothing mattered nothing mattered . 
The quiet and peace seemed to lap his body in a fine cool sheet , soothing every nerve his mind seemed once more to expand , and become natural . 
But when he had stood thus for a time a noise in the house roused him he turned instinctively and went into the drawing room . 
The sight of the lamp lit room brought back so abruptly all that he had forgotten that he stood for a moment unable to move . 
He remembered everything , the hour , the minute even , what point they had reached , and what was to come . 
He cursed himself for making believe for a minute that things were different from what they are . 
The night was now harder to face than ever . 
Unable to stay in the empty drawing room , he wandered out and sat on the stairs half way up to Rachel's room . 
He longed for some one to talk to , but Hirst was asleep , and Ridley was asleep there was no sound in Rachel's room . 
The only sound in the house was the sound of Chailey moving in the kitchen . 
At last there was a rustling on the stairs overhead , and Nurse McInnis came down fastening the links in her cuffs , in preparation for the night's watch . 
Terence rose and stopped her . 
He had scarcely spoken to her , but it was possible that she might confirm him in the belief which still persisted in his own mind that Rachel was not seriously ill . 
He told her in a whisper that Dr . 
Lesage had been and what he had said . 
Now , Nurse , he whispered , please tell me your opinion . 
Do you consider that she is very seriously ill ? Is she in any danger ? The doctor has said she began . 
Yes , but I want your opinion . 
You have had experience of many cases like this ? I could not tell you more than Dr . 
Lesage , Mr. Hewet , she replied cautiously , as though her words might be used against her . 
The case is serious , but you may feel quite certain that we are doing all we can for Miss Vinrace . 
She spoke with some professional self approbation . 
If you ask me , she began in a curiously stealthy tone , I never like May for my patients . 
It may be a fancy , but I don't like to see anybody fall ill in May , she continued . 
Things seem to go wrong in May . 
She slipped past him and disappeared . 
Though he went to his room he was unable even to take his clothes off . 
For a long time he paced up and down , and then leaning out of the window gazed at the earth which lay so dark against the paler blue of the sky . 
They seemed to join together in their effort to extract the greatest possible amount of suffering from him . 
He could not get used to his pain , it was a revelation to him . 
He thought for the first time with understanding of words which had before seemed to him empty the struggle of life the hardness of life . 
Now he knew for himself that life is hard and full of suffering . 
It seemed to him as he looked back that their happiness had never been so great as his pain was now . 
There had always been something imperfect in their happiness , something they had wanted and had not been able to get . 
It had been fragmentary and incomplete , because they were so young and had not known what they were doing . 
And in those towns were little men and women , tiny men and women . 
Oh , it was absurd , when one thought of it , to sit here in a little room suffering and caring . 
What did anything matter ? Rachel , a tiny creature , lay ill beneath him , and here in his little room he suffered on her account . 
The nearness of their bodies in this vast universe , and the minuteness of their bodies , seemed to him absurd and laughable . 
Nothing mattered , he repeated they had no power , no hope . 
He leant on the window sill , thinking , until he almost forgot the time and the place . 
Owing perhaps to the change of doctor , Rachel appeared to be rather better next day . 
Terribly pale and worn though Helen looked , there was a slight lifting of the cloud which had hung all these days in her eyes . 
She talked to me , she said voluntarily . 
She asked me what day of the week it was , like herself . 
Then suddenly , without any warning or any apparent reason , the tears formed in her eyes and rolled steadily down her cheeks . 
She cried with scarcely any attempt at movement of her features , and without any attempt to stop herself , as if she did not know that she was crying . 
He took her in his arms , and she clung to him like a child , crying softly and quietly upon his shoulder . 
She asked Terence to forgive her for her folly . 
She stopped at the door and came back and kissed him without saying anything . 
On this day indeed Rachel was conscious of what went on round her . 
The wave was replaced by the side of a mountain . 
Her body became a drift of melting snow , above which her knees rose in huge peaked mountains of bare bone . 
It was true that she saw Helen and saw her room , but everything had become very pale and semi transparent . 
Sometimes she could see through the wall in front of her . 
Sometimes when Helen went away she seemed to go so far that Rachel's eyes could hardly follow her . 
Helen's form stooping to raise her in bed appeared of gigantic size , and came down upon her like the ceiling falling . 
All sights were something of an effort , but the sight of Terence was the greatest effort , because he forced her to join mind to body in the desire to remember something . 
She did not wish to remember it troubled her when people tried to disturb her loneliness she wished to be alone . 
She wished for nothing else in the world . 
Although she had cried , Terence observed Helen's greater hopefulness with something like triumph in the argument between them she had made the first sign of admitting herself in the wrong . 
Lesage was sulky in his manner and very short in his answers . 
To Terence's demand , She seems to be better ? he replied , looking at him in an odd way , She has a chance of life . 
The door shut and Terence walked across to the window . 
He leant his forehead against the pane . 
Rachel , he repeated to himself . 
She has a chance of life . 
How could they say these things of Rachel ? Had any one yesterday seriously believed that Rachel was dying ? They had been engaged for four weeks . 
A fortnight ago she had been perfectly well . 
He turned , still enveloped in the same dreary mist , and walked towards the door . 
Suddenly he saw it all . 
He saw the room and the garden , and the trees moving in the air , they could go on without her she could die . 
For the first time since she fell ill he remembered exactly what she looked like and the way in which they cared for each other . 
The immense happiness of feeling her close to him mingled with a more intense anxiety than he had felt yet . 
He could not let her die he could not live without her . 
But after a momentary struggle , the curtain fell again , and he saw nothing and felt nothing clearly . 
It was all going on going on still , in the same way as before . 
Save for a physical pain when his heart beat , and the fact that his fingers were icy cold , he did not realise that he was anxious about anything . 
Within his mind he seemed to feel nothing about Rachel or about any one or anything in the world . 
He went on giving orders , arranging with Mrs. Chailey , writing out lists , and every now and then he went upstairs and put something quietly on the table outside Rachel's door . 
Lesage seemed to be less sulky than usual . 
He stayed voluntarily for a few moments , and , addressing St . 
John and Terence equally , as if he did not remember which of them was engaged to the young lady , said , I consider that her condition to night is very grave . 
Neither of them went to bed or suggested that the other should go to bed . 
They sat in the drawing room playing picquet with the door open . 
John made up a bed upon the sofa , and when it was ready insisted that Terence should lie upon it . 
They began to quarrel as to who should lie on the sofa and who should lie upon a couple of chairs covered with rugs . 
John forced Terence at last to lie down upon the sofa . 
Don't be a fool , Terence , he said . 
You'll only get ill if you don't sleep . 
Old fellow , he began , as Terence still refused , and stopped abruptly , fearing sentimentality he found that he was on the verge of tears . 
He began to say what he had long been wanting to say , that he was sorry for Terence , that he cared for him , that he cared for Rachel . 
John could not sleep at once . 
If only , he thought to himself , as he lay in the darkness , something would happen if only this strain would come to an end . 
He did not mind what happened , so long as the succession of these hard and dreary days was broken he did not mind if she died . 
He felt himself disloyal in not minding it , but it seemed to him that he had no feelings left . 
All night long there was no call or movement , except the opening and shutting of the bedroom door once . 
By degrees the light returned into the untidy room . 
At six the servants began to move at seven they crept downstairs into the kitchen and half an hour later the day began again . 
Nevertheless it was not the same as the days that had gone before , although it would have been hard to say in what the difference consisted . 
Perhaps it was that they seemed to be waiting for something . 
There were certainly fewer things to be done than usual . 
People drifted through the drawing room Mr. Flushing , Mr. and Mrs. Thornbury . 
Feeling oddly detached from it all , Terence remembered how Helen had said that whenever anything happened to you this was how people behaved . 
Was she right , or was she wrong ? He was too little interested to frame an opinion of his own . 
He put things away in his mind , as if one of these days he would think about them , but not now . 
The mist of unreality had deepened and deepened until it had produced a feeling of numbness all over his body . 
Was it his body ? Were those really his own hands ? This morning also for the first time Ridley found it impossible to sit alone in his room . 
He was very uncomfortable downstairs , and , as he did not know what was going on , constantly in the way but he would not leave the drawing room . 
Too restless to read , and having nothing to do , he began to pace up and down reciting poetry in an undertone . 
John all the morning as a half comprehended refrain . 
They wrestled up , they wrestled down , They wrestled sore and still The fiend who blinds the eyes of men , That night he had his will . 
Again and again Terence would creep half way up the stairs in case he might be able to glean news of Rachel . 
But the only news now was of a very fragmentary kind she had drunk something she had slept a little she seemed quieter . 
In the same way , Dr . 
She had a horror of being buried alive . 
It is a horror , he remarked , that we generally find in the very old , and seldom in the young . 
They both expressed their interest in what he told them it seemed to them very strange . 
She assured them over and over again that it was their duty to eat . 
The afternoon , being thus shortened , passed more quickly than they expected . 
They scarcely spoke , the argument between them seeming to be suspended or forgotten . 
Fragments of the poem were wafted in at the open window as he passed and repassed . 
As the evening drew on and the red light of the sunset glittered far away on the sea , the same sense of desperation attacked both Terence and St . 
John at the thought that the day was nearly over , and that another night was at hand . 
The appearance of one light after another in the town beneath them produced in Hirst a repetition of his terrible and disgusting desire to break down and sob . 
Then the lamps were brought in by Chailey . 
Chailey herself limped because of the rheumatism in her feet , but it appeared to her mere waste of time to take any notice of the unruly flesh of servants . 
Lesage arrived unexpectedly , and stayed upstairs a very long time . 
He came down once and drank a cup of coffee . 
She is very ill , he said in answer to Ridley's question . 
The three men sat together in the drawing room . 
Ridley was quite quiet now , and his attention seemed to be thoroughly awakened . 
Save for little half voluntary movements and exclamations that were stifled at once , they waited in complete silence . 
It seemed as if they were at last brought together face to face with something definite . 
It was nearly eleven o'clock when Dr . 
Lesage again appeared in the room . 
He approached them very slowly , and did not speak at once . 
He looked first at St . 
John and then at Terence , and said to Terence , Mr. Hewet , I think you should go upstairs now . 
Terence rose immediately , leaving the others seated with Dr . 
Lesage standing motionless between them . 
Chailey was in the passage outside , repeating over and over again , It's wicked it's wicked . 
Terence paid her no attention he heard what she was saying , but it conveyed no meaning to his mind . 
All the way upstairs he kept saying to himself , This has not happened to me . 
It is not possible that this has happened to me . 
He looked curiously at his own hand on the banisters . 
The stairs were very steep , and it seemed to take him a long time to surmount them . 
Instead of feeling keenly , as he knew that he ought to feel , he felt nothing at all . 
When he opened the door he saw Helen sitting by the bedside . 
There were shaded lights on the table , and the room , though it seemed to be full of a great many things , was very tidy . 
There was a faint and not unpleasant smell of disinfectants . 
Helen rose and gave up her chair to him in silence . 
He sat down by the bedside , and a moment afterwards heard the door shut gently behind her . 
He was alone with Rachel , and a faint reflection of the sense of relief that they used to feel when they were left alone possessed him . 
He expected to find some terrible change in her , but there was none . 
She looked indeed very thin , and , as far as he could see , very tired , but she was the same as she had always been . 
Moreover , she saw him and knew him . 
She smiled at him and said , Hullo , Terence . 
The curtain which had been drawn between them for so long vanished immediately . 
Well , Rachel , he replied in his usual voice , upon which she opened her eyes quite widely and smiled with her familiar smile . 
He kissed her and took her hand . 
It's been wretched without you , he said . 
She still looked at him and smiled , but soon a slight look of fatigue or perplexity came into her eyes and she shut them again . 
But when we're together we're perfectly happy , he said . 
He continued to hold her hand . 
The light being dim , it was impossible to see any change in her face . 
An immense feeling of peace came over Terence , so that he had no wish to move or to speak . 
The terrible torture and unreality of the last days were over , and he had come out now into perfect certainty and peace . 
His mind began to work naturally again and with great ease . 
The longer he sat there the more profoundly was he conscious of the peace invading every corner of his soul . 
So much the better this was death . 
It was nothing it was to cease to breathe . 
It was happiness , it was perfect happiness . 
They had now what they had always wanted to have , the union which had been impossible while they lived . 
Unconscious whether he thought the words or spoke them aloud , he said , No two people have ever been so happy as we have been . 
No one has ever loved as we have loved . 
It seemed to him that their complete union and happiness filled the room with rings eddying more and more widely . 
He had no wish in the world left unfulfilled . 
They possessed what could never be taken from them . 
He was not conscious that any one had come into the room , but later , moments later , or hours later perhaps , he felt an arm behind him . 
The arms were round him . 
He did not want to have arms round him , and the mysterious whispering voices annoyed him . 
He laid Rachel's hand , which was now cold , upon the counterpane , and rose from his chair , and walked across to the window . 
The windows were uncurtained , and showed the moon , and a long silver pathway upon the surface of the waves . 
Why , he said , in his ordinary tone of voice , look at the moon . 
There's a halo round the moon . 
We shall have rain to morrow . 
The arms , whether they were the arms of man or of woman , were round him again they were pushing him gently towards the door . 
He would go if they wished it , but nothing they could do would disturb his happiness . 
Rachel ! Rachel ! he shrieked , trying to rush back to her . 
But they prevented him , and pushed him down the passage and into a bedroom far from her room . 
Unbroken by clouds it fell straightly , and lay almost like a chill white frost over the sea and the earth . 
In this profound silence one sound only was audible , the sound of a slight but continuous breathing which never ceased , although it never rose and never fell . 
It continued after the birds had begun to flutter from branch to branch , and could be heard behind the first thin notes of their voices . 
White and massive it stood in the early light , half asleep with its blinds down . 
She felt very old this morning , and useless too , as if her life had been a failure , as if it had been hard and laborious to no purpose . 
She did not want to go on living , and yet she knew that she would . 
She was so strong that she would live to be a very old woman . 
She would probably live to be eighty , and as she was now fifty , that left thirty years more for her to live . 
She turned her hands over and over in her lap and looked at them curiously her old hands , that had done so much work for her . 
There did not seem to be much point in it all one went on , of course one went on . 
She looked up to see Mrs. Thornbury standing beside her , with lines drawn upon her forehead , and her lips parted as if she were about to ask a question . 
She died this morning , very early , about three o'clock . 
Mrs. Thornbury made a little exclamation , drew her lips together , and the tears rose in her eyes . 
They looked to her unreal , or as people look who remain unconscious that some great explosion is about to take place beside them . 
But there was no explosion , and they went on standing by the chairs and the tables . 
She could almost see the dead . 
She could almost hear the voices of the mourners . 
They expected it ? she asked at length . 
Miss Allan could only shake her head . 
I know nothing , she replied , except what Mrs. Flushing's maid told me . 
She died early this morning . 
Housemaids were passing briskly from room to room , but Mrs. Thornbury avoided them she hardly saw them they seemed to her to be in another world . 
She did not even look up directly when Evelyn stopped her . 
It was evident that Evelyn had been lately in tears , and when she looked at Mrs. Thornbury she began to cry again . 
Together they drew into the hollow of a window , and stood there in silence . 
Broken words formed themselves at last among Evelyn's sobs . 
It was wicked , she sobbed , it was cruel they were so happy . 
Mrs. Thornbury patted her on the shoulder . 
It seems hard very hard , she said . 
Something had passed from the world . 
It seemed to her strangely empty . 
And yet the older one grows , she continued , her eyes regaining more than their usual brightness , the more certain one becomes that there is a reason . 
How could one go on if there were no reason ? she asked . 
She asked the question of some one , but she did not ask it of Evelyn . 
Evelyn's sobs were becoming quieter . 
There must be a reason , she said . 
It can't only be an accident . 
For it was an accident it need never have happened . 
But we must not let ourselves think of that , she added , and let us hope that they don't either . 
Whatever they had done it might have been the same . 
These terrible illnesses There's no reason I don't believe there's any reason at all ! Evelyn broke out , pulling the blind down and letting it fly back with a little snap . 
Why should these things happen ? Why should people suffer ? I honestly believe , she went on , lowering her voice slightly , that Rachel's in Heaven , but Terence . 
What's the good of it all ? she demanded . 
Mrs. Thornbury shook her head slightly but made no reply , and pressing Evelyn's hand she went on down the passage . 
Impelled by a strong desire to hear something , although she did not know exactly what there was to hear , she was making her way to the Flushings' room . 
As she opened their door she felt that she had interrupted some argument between husband and wife . 
Mrs. Flushing was sitting with her back to the light , and Mr. Flushing was standing near her , arguing and trying to persuade her of something . 
Ah , here is Mrs. Thornbury , he began with some relief in his voice . 
You have heard , of course . 
My wife feels that she was in some way responsible . 
She urged poor Miss Vinrace to come on the expedition . 
I'm sure you will agree with me that it is most unreasonable to feel that . 
We don't even know in fact I think it most unlikely that she caught her illness there . 
These diseases Besides , she was set on going . 
She would have gone whether you asked her or not , Alice . 
Don't , Wilfrid , said Mrs. Flushing , neither moving nor taking her eyes off the spot on the floor upon which they rested . 
What's the use of talking ? What's the use ? She ceased . 
I was coming to ask you , said Mrs. Thornbury , addressing Wilfrid , for it was useless to speak to his wife . 
It was dreadful to be so far away from them . 
But Mr. Flushing shook his head he did not think that now later perhaps one might be able to help . 
Here Mrs. Flushing rose stiffly , turned her back to them , and walked to the dressing room opposite . 
As she walked , they could see her breast slowly rise and slowly fall . 
But her grief was silent . 
She shut the door behind her . 
When she was alone by herself she clenched her fists together , and began beating the back of a chair with them . 
She was like a wounded animal . 
She hated death she was furious , outraged , indignant with death , as if it were a living creature . 
She refused to relinquish her friends to death . 
She would not submit to dark and nothingness . 
She began to pace up and down , clenching her hands , and making no attempt to stop the quick tears which raced down her cheeks . 
She sat still at last , but she did not submit . 
She looked stubborn and strong when she had ceased to cry . 
In the next room , meanwhile , Wilfrid was talking to Mrs. Thornbury with greater freedom now that his wife was not sitting there . 
That's the worst of these places , he said . 
People will behave as though they were in England , and they're not . 
I've no doubt myself that Miss Vinrace caught the infection up at the villa itself . 
She probably ran risks a dozen times a day that might have given her the illness . 
It's absurd to say she caught it with us . 
If he had not been sincerely sorry for them he would have been annoyed . 
Pepper tells me , he continued , that he left the house because he thought them so careless . 
He says they never washed their vegetables properly . 
Poor people ! It's a fearful price to pay . 
But it's only what I've seen over and over again people seem to forget that these things happen , and then they do happen , and they're surprised . 
There must be some reason why such things happen , she thought to herself , as she shut the door . 
Only at first it was not easy to understand what it was . 
It seemed so strange so unbelievable . 
There was undoubtedly much suffering , much struggling , but , on the whole , surely there was a balance of happiness surely order did prevail . 
Nor were the deaths of young people really the saddest things in life they were saved so much they kept so much . 
The dead she called to mind those who had died early , accidentally were beautiful she often dreamt of the dead . 
And in time Terence himself would come to feel She got up and began to wander restlessly about the room . 
For an old woman of her age she was very restless , and for one of her clear , quick mind she was unusually perplexed . 
She could not settle to anything , so that she was relieved when the door opened . 
She did not tell him about Miss Vinrace's death , for that would only disturb him , and he was put out already . 
She tried to discover why he was uneasy . 
But every now and then what she was saying seemed to her oddly empty of meaning . 
At luncheon it was remarked by several people that the visitors at the hotel were beginning to leave there were fewer every day . 
There were only forty people at luncheon , instead of the sixty that there had been . 
So old Mrs. Paley computed , gazing about her with her faded eyes , as she took her seat at her own table in the window . 
Her party generally consisted of Mr. Perrott as well as Arthur and Susan , and to day Evelyn was lunching with them also . 
Having noticed that her eyes were red , and guessing the reason , the others took pains to keep up an elaborate conversation between themselves . 
Susan replied , Yes isn't it perfectly awful ? When you think what a nice girl she was only just engaged , and this need never have happened it seems too tragic . 
She looked at Arthur as though he might be able to help her with something more suitable . 
Hard lines , said Arthur briefly . 
But it was a foolish thing to do to go up that river . 
They should have known better . 
You can't expect Englishwomen to stand roughing it as the natives do who've been acclimatised . 
I'd half a mind to warn them at tea that day when it was being discussed . 
But it's no good saying these sort of things it only puts people's backs up it never makes any difference . 
Old Mrs. Paley , hitherto contented with her soup , here intimated , by raising one hand to her ear , that she wished to know what was being said . 
You heard , Aunt Emma , that poor Miss Vinrace has died of the fever , Susan informed her gently . 
She could not speak of death loudly or even in her usual voice , so that Mrs. Paley did not catch a word . 
Arthur came to the rescue . 
Miss Vinrace is dead , he said very distinctly . 
Mrs. Paley merely bent a little towards him and asked , Eh ? Miss Vinrace is dead , he repeated . 
It was only by stiffening all the muscles round his mouth that he could prevent himself from bursting into laughter , and forced himself to repeat for the third time , Miss Vinrace . 
Let alone the difficulty of hearing the exact words , facts that were outside her daily experience took some time to reach Mrs. Paley's consciousness . 
A weight seemed to rest upon her brain , impeding , though not damaging its action . 
She sat vague eyed for at least a minute before she realised what Arthur meant . 
Dead ? she said vaguely . 
Miss Vinrace dead ? Dear me . 
But I don't at the moment remember which she was . 
We seem to have made so many new acquaintances here . 
She looked at Susan for help . 
A tall dark girl , who just missed being handsome , with a high colour ? No , Susan interposed . 
She was then she gave it up in despair . 
There was no use in explaining that Mrs. Paley was thinking of the wrong person . 
She ought not to have died , Mrs. Paley continued . 
But people will drink the water . 
I can never make out why . 
It seems such a simple thing to tell them to put a bottle of Seltzer water in your bedroom . 
That's all the precaution I've ever taken , and I've been in every part of the world , I may say Italy a dozen times over . 
But young people always think they know better , and then they pay the penalty . 
Poor thing I am very sorry for her . 
But the difficulty of peering into a dish of potatoes and helping herself engrossed her attention . 
Arthur and Susan both secretly hoped that the subject was now disposed of , for there seemed to them something unpleasant in this discussion . 
But Evelyn was not ready to let it drop . 
I ? Oh , yes , I do , he answered awkwardly , but with obvious sincerity . 
Evelyn's questions made him too feel uncomfortable . 
It seems so inexplicable , Evelyn continued . 
Why should she be dead , and not you or I ? It was only a fortnight ago that she was here with the rest of us . 
What d'you believe ? she demanded of mr . 
D'you believe that things go on , that she's still somewhere or d'you think it's simply a game we crumble up to nothing when we die ? I'm positive Rachel's not dead . 
Mr. Perrott would have said almost anything that Evelyn wanted him to say , but to assert that he believed in the immortality of the soul was not in his power . 
He sat silent , more deeply wrinkled than usual , crumbling his bread . 
Lest Evelyn should next ask him what he believed , Arthur , after making a pause equivalent to a full stop , started a completely different topic . 
My grandfather Invented a stove , said Evelyn . 
I know all about that . 
We had one in the conservatory to keep the plants warm . 
Didn't know I was so famous , said Arthur . 
Now Fielding , his clerk , with how much justice I don't know , always claimed that he meant to do something for him . 
The poor old boy's come down in the world through trying inventions on his own account , lives in Penge over a tobacconist's shop . 
I've been to see him there . 
As they left the room it happened that Mrs. Paley's wheeled chair ran into the Elliots , who were coming through the door , as she was going out . 
Would there be any chance of seeing you this afternoon , about three thirty say ? I shall be in the garden , by the fountain . 
The block dissolved before Evelyn answered . 
But as she left them in the hall , she looked at him brightly and said , Half past three , did you say ? That'll suit me . 
She ran upstairs with the feeling of spiritual exaltation and quickened life which the prospect of an emotional scene always aroused in her . 
But she could not bring her mind to bear upon the question . 
She was leaving , and , therefore , she occupied herself in laying her clothes out side by side upon the bed . 
She observed that some were very shabby . 
She took the photograph of her father and mother , and , before she laid it away in her box , she held it for a minute in her hand . 
Rachel had looked at it . 
But by degrees the feeling of Rachel's presence passed away , and she could no longer realise her , for she had scarcely known her . 
But this momentary sensation left her depressed and fatigued . 
When she was actually on the way downstairs , the blood began to circle through her body of its own accord too , for her mind felt very dull . 
Mr. Perrott was waiting for her . 
I'm late as usual ! she exclaimed , as she caught sight of him . 
Well , you must forgive me I had to pack up . 
One's quite forgotten what rain looks like , she added . 
But Mr. Perrott paid no attention to the steamer or to the weather . 
Miss Murgatroyd , he began with his usual formality , I asked you to come here from a very selfish motive , I fear . 
The little gush of vitality which had come into Evelyn as she ran downstairs had left her , and she felt herself impotent . 
There was nothing for her to say she felt nothing . 
Now that he was actually asking her , in his elderly gentle words , to marry him , she felt less for him than she had ever felt before . 
Let's sit down and talk it over , she said rather unsteadily . 
Mr. Perrott followed her to a curved green seat under a tree . 
They looked at the fountain in front of them , which had long ceased to play . 
Evelyn kept looking at the fountain instead of thinking of what she was saying the fountain without any water seemed to be the type of her own being . 
Of course I care for you , she began , rushing her words out in a hurry I should be a brute if I didn't . 
I think you're quite one of the nicest people I've ever known , and one of the finest too . 
I wish you didn't care for me in that way . 
Are you sure you do ? For the moment she honestly desired that he should say no . 
Quite sure , said Mr. Perrott . 
You see , I'm not as simple as most women , Evelyn continued . 
I think I want more . 
I don't know exactly what I feel . 
He sat by her , watching her and refraining from speech . 
I sometimes think I haven't got it in me to care very much for one person only . 
Some one else would make you a better wife . 
I can imagine you very happy with some one else . 
If you think that there is any chance that you will come to care for me , I am quite content to wait , said Mr. Perrott . 
Well there's no hurry , is there ? said Evelyn . 
Suppose I thought it over and wrote and told you when I get back ? I'm going to Moscow I'll write from Moscow . 
You cannot give me any kind of idea . 
I do not ask for a date . 
that would be most unreasonable . 
He paused , looking down at the gravel path . 
As she did not immediately answer , he went on . 
I know very well that I am not that I have not much to offer you either in myself or in my circumstances . 
And I forget it cannot seem the miracle to you that it does to me . 
Until I met you I had gone on in my own quiet way we are both very quiet people , my sister and I quite content with my lot . 
My friendship with Arthur was the most important thing in my life . 
Now that I know you , all that has changed . 
You seem to put such a spirit into everything . 
Life seems to hold so many possibilities that I had never dreamt of . 
That's splendid ! Evelyn exclaimed , grasping his hand . 
Now you'll go back and start all kinds of things and make a great name in the world and we'll go on being friends , whatever happens . 
we'll be great friends , won't we ? Evelyn ! he moaned suddenly , and took her in his arms , and kissed her . 
She did not resent it , although it made little impression on her . 
As she sat upright again , she said , I never see why one shouldn't go on being friends though some people do . 
Left alone , Evelyn walked up and down the path . 
What did matter than ? What was the meaning of it all ? Chapter XXVII All that evening the clouds gathered , until they closed entirely over the blue of the sky . 
The first roll of thunder and the first heavy drop striking the pane caused a little stir . 
It's coming ! was said simultaneously in many different languages . 
There was then a profound silence , as if the thunder had withdrawn into itself . 
The rain swished with it , and immediately there were all those sounds of windows being shut and doors slamming violently which accompany a storm . 
The room grew suddenly several degrees darker , for the wind seemed to be driving waves of darkness across the earth . 
No one attempted to eat for a time , but sat looking out at the garden , with their forks in the air . 
The flashes now came frequently , lighting up faces as if they were going to be photographed , surprising them in tense and unnatural expressions . 
The clap followed close and violently upon them . 
Several women half rose from their chairs and then sat down again , but dinner was continued uneasily with eyes upon the garden . 
The bushes outside were ruffled and whitened , and the wind pressed upon them so that they seemed to stoop to the ground . 
The waiters had to press dishes upon the diners' notice and the diners had to draw the attention of waiters , for they were all absorbed in looking at the storm . 
As the thunder showed no signs of withdrawing , but seemed massed right overhead , while the lightning aimed straight at the garden every time , an uneasy gloom replaced the first excitement . 
A little boy was carried away sobbing in the arms of his mother . 
Now and again their faces became white , as the lightning flashed , and finally a terrific crash came , making the panes of the skylight lift at the joints . 
Ah ! several voices exclaimed at the same moment . 
Something struck , said a man's voice . 
The rain seemed now to extinguish the lightning and the thunder , and the hall became almost dark . 
It's over , said another voice . 
The building , which had seemed so small in the tumult of the storm , now became as square and spacious as usual . 
Every now and then they looked at the board and made some encouraging remark to the gentlemen . 
The conversation in these circumstances was very gentle , fragmentary , and intermittent , but the room was full of the indescribable stir of life . 
Every now and then the moth , which was now grey of wing and shiny of thorax , whizzed over their heads , and hit the lamps with a thud . 
A young woman put down her needlework and exclaimed , Poor creature ! it would be kinder to kill it . 
But nobody seemed disposed to rouse himself in order to kill the moth . 
They watched it dash from lamp to lamp , because they were comfortable , and had nothing to do . 
Mrs. Elliot was an expert at knitting , and disclaimed a compliment to that effect with evident pride . 
I suppose we're all proud of something , she said , and I'm proud of my knitting . 
I think things like that run in families . 
I had an uncle who knitted his own socks to the day of his death and he did it better than any of his daughters , dear old gentleman . 
Now I wonder that you , Miss Allan , who use your eyes so much , don't take up knitting in the evenings . 
You'd find it such a relief , I should say such a rest to the eyes and the bazaars are so glad of things . 
Her voice dropped into the smooth half conscious tone of the expert knitter the words came gently one after another . 
At last she said , It is surely not natural to leave your wife because she happens to be in love with you . 
But that as far as I can make out is what the gentleman in my story does . 
Tut , tut , that doesn't sound good no , that doesn't sound at all natural , murmured the knitters in their absorbed voices . 
Still , it's the kind of book people call very clever , Miss Allan added . 
Maternity by Michael Jessop I presume , Mr. Elliot put in , for he could never resist the temptation of talking while he played chess . 
D'you know , said Mrs. Elliot , after a moment , I don't think people do write good novels now not as good as they used to , anyhow . 
No one took the trouble to agree with her or to disagree with her . 
They were glad that he had not spoken to them . 
But Miss Allan replied without any hesitation , I was thinking of my imaginary uncle . 
Hasn't every one got an imaginary uncle ? she continued . 
I have one a most delightful old gentleman . 
He's always giving me things . 
Sometimes it's a gold watch sometimes it's a carriage and pair sometimes it's a beautiful little cottage in the New Forest sometimes it's a ticket to the place I most want to see . 
She set them all thinking vaguely of the things they wanted . 
Mrs. Elliot knew exactly what she wanted she wanted a child and the usual little pucker deepened on her brow . 
We're such lucky people , she said , looking at her husband . 
We really have no wants . 
She was apt to say this , partly in order to convince herself , and partly in order to convince other people . 
But she was prevented from wondering how far she carried conviction by the entrance of Mr. and Mrs. Flushing , who came through the hall and stopped by the chess board . 
Mrs. Flushing looked wilder than ever . 
A great strand of black hair looped down across her brow , her cheeks were whipped a dark blood red , and drops of rain made wet marks upon them . 
Mr. Flushing explained that they had been on the roof watching the storm . 
It was a wonderful sight , he said . 
The lightning went right out over the sea , and lit up the waves and the ships far away . 
You can't think how wonderful the mountains looked too , with the lights on them , and the great masses of shadow . 
He slid down into a chair , becoming interested in the final struggle of the game . 
And you go back to morrow ? said Mrs. Thornbury , looking at Mrs. Flushing . 
And indeed one is not sorry to go back , said Mrs. Elliot , assuming an air of mournful anxiety , after all this illness . 
Are you afraid of dyin' ? Mrs. Flushing demanded scornfully . 
I think we are all afraid of that , said Mrs. Elliot with dignity . 
I suppose we're all cowards when it comes to the point , said Mrs. Flushing , rubbing her cheek against the back of the chair . 
Not a bit of it ! said Mr. Flushing , turning round , for Mr. Pepper took a very long time to consider his move . 
It's not cowardly to wish to live , Alice . 
It's the very reverse of cowardly . 
Personally , I'd like to go on for a hundred years granted , of course , that I had the full use of my faculties . 
Think of all the things that are bound to happen ! That is what I feel , Mrs. Thornbury rejoined . 
The changes , the improvements , the inventions and beauty . 
Do you really believe there's life in Mars ? asked Mrs. Flushing , turning to her for the first time with keen interest . 
There is Mr. Hirst , she said quietly . 
John had just come through the swing door . 
He was rather blown about by the wind , and his cheeks looked terribly pale , unshorn , and cavernous . 
He looked at Mrs. Thornbury and could not speak . 
Mr. Pepper's hand stayed upon his Knight . 
Mrs. Thornbury somehow moved him to a chair , sat herself beside him , and with tears in her own eyes said gently , You have done everything for your friend . 
Her action set them all talking again as if they had never stopped , and Mr. Pepper finished the move with his Knight . 
There was nothing to be done , said St . 
It seems impossible He drew his hand across his eyes as if some dream came between him and the others and prevented him from seeing where he was . 
And that poor fellow , said Mrs. Thornbury , the tears falling again down her cheeks . 
Did he have the consolation of knowing ? Mrs. Thornbury began very tentatively . 
He lay back in his chair , half seeing the others , half hearing what they said . 
As he sat there , motionless , this feeling of relief became a feeling of profound happiness . 
Without any sense of disloyalty to Terence and Rachel he ceased to think about either of them . 
The game was really a good one , and Mr. Pepper and Mr. Elliot were becoming more and more set upon the struggle . 
Mrs. Thornbury , seeing that St . 
John did not wish to talk , resumed her knitting . 
Lightning again ! Mrs. Flushing suddenly exclaimed . 
A yellow light flashed across the blue window , and for a second they saw the green trees outside . 
She strode to the door , pushed it open , and stood half out in the open air . 
But the light was only the reflection of the storm which was over . 
The rain had ceased , the heavy clouds were blown away , and the air was thin and clear , although vapourish mists were being driven swiftly across the moon . 
The driving air , the drone of the trees , and the flashing light which now and again spread a broad illumination over the earth filled Mrs. Flushing with exultation . 
Her breasts rose and fell . 
Splendid ! Splendid ! she muttered to herself . 
Then she turned back into the hall and exclaimed in a peremptory voice , Come outside and see , Wilfrid it's wonderful . 
Some half stirred some rose some dropped their balls of wool and began to stoop to look for them . 
To bed to bed , said Miss Allan . 
It was the move with your Queen that gave it away , Pepper , exclaimed Mr. Elliot triumphantly , sweeping the pieces together and standing up . 
He had won the game . 
What ? Pepper beaten at last ? I congratulate you ! said Arthur Venning , who was wheeling old Mrs. Paley to bed . 
All these voices sounded gratefully in St . 
John's ears as he lay half asleep , and yet vividly conscious of everything around him . 
