WALDEN ON THE DUTY OF CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE Contents WALDEN . 
Where I Lived , and What I Lived For . 
I lived there two years and two months . 
At present I am a sojourner in civilized life again . 
Some have asked what I got to eat if I did not feel lonesome if I was not afraid and the like . 
Others have been curious to learn what portion of my income I devoted to charitable purposes and some , who have large families , how many poor children I maintained . 
I will therefore ask those of my readers who feel no particular interest in me to pardon me if I undertake to answer some of these questions in this book . 
In most books , the I , or first person , is omitted in this it will be retained that , in respect to egotism , is the main difference . 
We commonly do not remember that it is , after all , always the first person that is speaking . 
I should not talk so much about myself if there were anybody else whom I knew as well . 
Unfortunately , I am confined to this theme by the narrowness of my experience . 
Perhaps these pages are more particularly addressed to poor students . 
As for the rest of my readers , they will accept such portions as apply to them . 
I trust that none will stretch the seams in putting on the coat , for it may do good service to him whom it fits . 
They have no friend Iolaus to burn with a hot iron the root of the hydra's head , but as soon as one head is crushed , two spring up . 
Better if they had been born in the open pasture and suckled by a wolf , that they might have seen with clearer eyes what field they were called to labor in . 
But men labor under a mistake . 
The better part of the man is soon plowed into the soil for compost . 
It is a fool's life , as they will find when they get to the end of it , if not before . 
It is said that Deucalion and Pyrrha created men by throwing stones over their heads behind them Inde genus durum sumus , experiensque laborum , Et documenta damus qua simus origine nati . 
Or , as Raleigh rhymes it in his sonorous way , From thence our kind hard hearted is , enduring pain and care , Approving that our bodies of a stony nature are . 
So much for a blind obedience to a blundering oracle , throwing the stones over their heads behind them , and not seeing where they fell . 
Their fingers , from excessive toil , are too clumsy and tremble too much for that . 
Actually , the laboring man has not leisure for a true integrity day by day he cannot afford to sustain the manliest relations to men his labor would be depreciated in the market . 
He has no time to be anything but a machine . 
The finest qualities of our nature , like the bloom on fruits , can be preserved only by the most delicate handling . 
Yet we do not treat ourselves nor one another thus tenderly . 
Some of you , we all know , are poor , find it hard to live , are sometimes , as it were , gasping for breath . 
It is hard to have a Southern overseer it is worse to have a Northern one but worst of all when you are the slave driver of yourself . 
Public opinion is a weak tyrant compared with our own private opinion . 
What a man thinks of himself , that it is which determines , or rather indicates , his fate . 
The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation . 
What is called resignation is confirmed desperation . 
From the desperate city you go into the desperate country , and have to console yourself with the bravery of minks and muskrats . 
A stereotyped but unconscious despair is concealed even under what are called the games and amusements of mankind . 
There is no play in them , for this comes after work . 
But it is a characteristic of wisdom not to do desperate things . 
Yet they honestly think there is no choice left . 
But alert and healthy natures remember that the sun rose clear . 
It is never too late to give up our prejudices . 
No way of thinking or doing , however ancient , can be trusted without proof . 
What old people say you cannot do , you try and find that you can . 
Old deeds for old people , and new deeds for new . 
Age is no better , hardly so well , qualified for an instructor as youth , for it has not profited so much as it has lost . 
One may almost doubt if the wisest man has learned anything of absolute value by living . 
I have lived some thirty years on this planet , and I have yet to hear the first syllable of valuable or even earnest advice from my seniors . 
They have told me nothing , and probably cannot tell me anything to the purpose . 
Here is life , an experiment to a great extent untried by me but it does not avail me that they have tried it . 
If I have any experience which I think valuable , I am sure to reflect that this my Mentors said nothing about . 
Some things are really necessaries of life in some circles , the most helpless and diseased , which in others are luxuries merely , and in others still are entirely unknown . 
The whole ground of human life seems to some to have been gone over by their predecessors , both the heights and the valleys , and all things to have been cared for . 
Hippocrates has even left directions how we should cut our nails that is , even with the ends of the fingers , neither shorter nor longer . 
Undoubtedly the very tedium and ennui which presume to have exhausted the variety and the joys of life are as old as Adam . 
But man's capacities have never been measured nor are we to judge of what he can do by any precedents , so little has been tried . 
If I had remembered this it would have prevented some mistakes . 
This was not the light in which I hoed them . 
History , Poetry , Mythology ! I know of no reading of another's experience so startling and informing as this would be . 
One generation abandons the enterprises of another like stranded vessels . 
I think that we may safely trust a good deal more than we do . 
We may waive just so much care of ourselves as we honestly bestow elsewhere . 
Nature is as well adapted to our weakness as to our strength . 
The incessant anxiety and strain of some is a well nigh incurable form of disease . 
So thoroughly and sincerely are we compelled to live , reverencing our life , and denying the possibility of change . 
This is the only way , we say but there are as many ways as there can be drawn radii from one centre . 
All change is a miracle to contemplate but it is a miracle which is taking place every instant . 
Confucius said , To know that we know what we know , and that we do not know what we do not know , that is true knowledge . 
When one man has reduced a fact of the imagination to be a fact to his understanding , I foresee that all men at length establish their lives on that basis . 
For the improvements of ages have had but little influence on the essential laws of man's existence as our skeletons , probably , are not to be distinguished from those of our ancestors . 
To many creatures there is in this sense but one necessary of life , Food . 
To the bison of the prairie it is a few inches of palatable grass , with water to drink unless he seeks the Shelter of the forest or the mountain's shadow . 
None of the brute creation requires more than Food and Shelter . 
We observe cats and dogs acquiring the same second nature . 
So , we are told , the New Hollander goes naked with impunity , while the European shivers in his clothes . 
In cold weather we eat more , in warm less . 
Of course the vital heat is not to be confounded with fire but so much for analogy . 
The grand necessity , then , for our bodies , is to keep warm , to keep the vital heat in us . 
The summer , in some climates , makes possible to man a sort of Elysian life . 
, and for the studious , lamplight , stationery , and access to a few books , rank next to necessaries , and can all be obtained at a trifling cost . 
The luxuriously rich are not simply kept comfortably warm , but unnaturally hot as I implied before , they are cooked , of course a la mode . 
Most of the luxuries , and many of the so called comforts of life , are not only not indispensable , but positive hindrances to the elevation of mankind . 
With respect to luxuries and comforts , the wisest have ever lived a more simple and meagre life than the poor . 
The ancient philosophers , Chinese , Hindoo , Persian , and Greek , were a class than which none has been poorer in outward riches , none so rich in inward . 
We know not much about them . 
It is remarkable that we know so much of them as we do . 
The same is true of the more modern reformers and benefactors of their race . 
None can be an impartial or wise observer of human life but from the vantage ground of what we should call voluntary poverty . 
Of a life of luxury the fruit is luxury , whether in agriculture , or commerce , or literature , or art . 
There are nowadays professors of philosophy , but not philosophers . 
Yet it is admirable to profess because it was once admirable to live . 
It is to solve some of the problems of life , not only theoretically , but practically . 
The success of great scholars and thinkers is commonly a courtier like success , not kingly , not manly . 
They make shift to live merely by conformity , practically as their fathers did , and are in no sense the progenitors of a noble race of men . 
He is not fed , sheltered , clothed , warmed , like his contemporaries . 
The soil , it appears , is suited to the seed , for it has sent its radicle downward , and it may now send its shoot upward also with confidence . 
There are some who complain most energetically and inconsolably of any , because they are , as they say , doing their duty . 
I will only hint at some of the enterprises which I have cherished . 
You will pardon some obscurities , for there are more secrets in my trade than in most men's , and yet not voluntarily kept , but inseparable from its very nature . 
I would gladly tell all that I know about it , and never paint No Admittance on my gate . 
I long ago lost a hound , a bay horse , and a turtle dove , and am still on their trail . 
Many are the travellers I have spoken concerning them , describing their tracks and what calls they answered to . 
It is true , I never assisted the sun materially in his rising , but , doubt not , it was of the last importance only to be present at it . 
If it had concerned either of the political parties , depend upon it , it would have appeared in the Gazette with the earliest intelligence . 
However , in this case my pains were their own reward . 
My accounts , which I can swear to have kept faithfully , I have , indeed , never got audited , still less accepted , still less paid and settled . 
However , I have not set my heart on that . 
Not long since , a strolling Indian went to sell baskets at the house of a well known lawyer in my neighborhood . 
Do you wish to buy any baskets ? he asked . 
No , we do not want any , was the reply . 
Thinking that when he had made the baskets he would have done his part , and then it would be the white man's to buy them . 
I too had woven a kind of basket of a delicate texture , but I had not made it worth any one's while to buy them . 
The life which men praise and regard as successful is but one kind . 
I determined to go into business at once , and not wait to acquire the usual capital , using such slender means as I had already got . 
I have always endeavored to acquire strict business habits they are indispensable to every man . 
If your trade is with the Celestial Empire , then some small counting house on the coast , in some Salem harbor , will be fixture enough . 
You will export such articles as the country affords , purely native products , much ice and pine timber and a little granite , always in native bottoms . 
These will be good ventures . 
No Neva marshes to be filled though you must everywhere build on piles of your own driving . 
It is said that a flood tide , with a westerly wind , and ice in the Neva , would sweep St . 
Petersburg from the face of the earth . 
Kings and queens who wear a suit but once , though made by some tailor or dressmaker to their majesties , cannot know the comfort of wearing a suit that fits . 
They are no better than wooden horses to hang the clean clothes on . 
But even if the rent is not mended , perhaps the worst vice betrayed is improvidence . 
It would be easier for them to hobble to town with a broken leg than with a broken pantaloon . 
We know but few men , a great many coats and breeches . 
He was only a little more weather beaten than when I saw him last . 
I have heard of a dog that barked at every stranger who approached his master's premises with clothes on , but was easily quieted by a naked thief . 
It is an interesting question how far men would retain their relative rank if they were divested of their clothes . 
people are judged of by their clothes . 
Even in our democratic New England towns the accidental possession of wealth , and its manifestation in dress and equipage alone , obtain for the possessor almost universal respect . 
But they yield such respect , numerous as they are , are so far heathen , and need to have a missionary sent to them . 
Beside , clothes introduced sewing , a kind of work which you may call endless a woman's dress , at least , is never done . 
Old shoes will serve a hero longer than they have served his valet if a hero ever has a valet bare feet are older than shoes , and he can make them do . 
Only they who go to soires and legislative balls must have new coats , coats to change as often as the man changes in them . 
If there is not a new man , how can the new clothes be made to fit ? If you have any enterprise before you , try it in your old clothes . 
All men want , not something to do with , but something to do , or rather something to be . 
Our moulting season , like that of the fowls , must be a crisis in our lives . 
The loon retires to solitary ponds to spend it . 
Thus also the snake casts its slough , and the caterpillar its wormy coat , by an internal industry and expansion for clothes are but our outmost cuticle and mortal coil . 
Otherwise we shall be found sailing under false colors , and be inevitably cashiered at last by our own opinion , as well as that of mankind . 
We don garment after garment , as if we grew like exogenous plants by addition without . 
I believe that all races at some seasons wear something equivalent to the shirt . 
She spins and weaves and cuts with full authority . 
The head monkey at Paris puts on a traveller's cap , and all the monkeys in America do the same . 
I sometimes despair of getting anything quite simple and honest done in this world by the help of men . 
Nevertheless , we will not forget that some Egyptian wheat was handed down to us by a mummy . 
On the whole , I think that it cannot be maintained that dressing has in this or any country risen to the dignity of an art . 
At present men make shift to wear what they can get . 
Like shipwrecked sailors , they put on what they can find on the beach , and at a little distance , whether of space or time , laugh at each other's masquerade . 
Every generation laughs at the old fashions , but follows religiously the new . 
We are amused at beholding the costume of Henry VIII , or Queen Elizabeth , as much as if it was that of the King and Queen of the Cannibal Islands . 
All costume off a man is pitiful or grotesque . 
It is only the serious eye peering from and the sincere life passed within it which restrain laughter and consecrate the costume of any people . 
Let Harlequin be taken with a fit of the colic and his trappings will have to serve that mood too . 
When the soldier is hit by a cannonball , rags are as becoming as purple . 
The childish and savage taste of men and women for new patterns keeps how many shaking and squinting through kaleidoscopes that they may discover the particular figure which this generation requires today . 
The manufacturers have learned that this taste is merely whimsical . 
Comparatively , tattooing is not the hideous custom which it is called . 
It is not barbarous merely because the printing is skin deep and unalterable . 
I cannot believe that our factory system is the best mode by which men may get clothing . 
In the long run men hit only what they aim at . 
Therefore , though they should fail immediately , they had better aim at something high . 
Samuel Laing says that the Laplander in his skin dress , and in a skin bag which he puts over his head and shoulders , will sleep night after night on the snow . 
in a degree of cold which would extinguish the life of one exposed to it in any woollen clothing . 
He had seen them asleep thus . 
Yet he adds , They are not hardier than other people . 
In our climate , in the summer , it was formerly almost solely a covering at night . 
Man was not made so large limbed and robust but that he must seek to narrow his world and wall in a space such as fitted him . 
Adam and Eve , according to the fable , wore the bower before other clothes . 
Man wanted a home , a place of warmth , or comfort , first of warmth , then the warmth of the affections . 
We may imagine a time when , in the infancy of the human race , some enterprising mortal crept into a hollow in a rock for shelter . 
Every child begins the world again , to some extent , and loves to stay outdoors , even in wet and cold . 
It plays house , as well as horse , having an instinct for it . 
At last , we know not what it is to live in the open air , and our lives are domestic in more senses than we think . 
From the hearth the field is a great distance . 
Birds do not sing in caves , nor do doves cherish their innocence in dovecots . 
Consider first how slight a shelter is absolutely necessary . 
This did not appear the worst , nor by any means a despicable alternative . 
You could sit up as late as you pleased , and , whenever you got up , go abroad without any landlord or house lord dogging you for rent . 
Many a man is harassed to death to pay the rent of a larger and more luxurious box who would not have frozen to death in such a box as this . 
I am far from jesting . 
Economy is a subject which admits of being treated with levity , but it cannot so be disposed of . 
A comfortable house for a rude and hardy race , that lived mostly out of doors , was once made here almost entirely of such materials as Nature furnished ready to their hands . 
The meaner sort are covered with mats which they make of a kind of bulrush , and are also indifferently tight and warm , but not so good as the former . 
Some I have seen , sixty or a hundred feet long and thirty feet broad . 
I have often lodged in their wigwams , and found them as warm as the best English houses . 
He adds that they were commonly carpeted and lined within with well wrought embroidered mats , and were furnished with various utensils . 
The Indians had advanced so far as to regulate the effect of the wind by a mat suspended over the hole in the roof and moved by a string . 
In the large towns and cities , where civilization especially prevails , the number of those who own a shelter is a very small fraction of the whole . 
But , answers one , by merely paying this tax , the poor civilized man secures an abode which is a palace compared with the savage's . 
If we suppose him to pay a rent instead , this is but a doubtful choice of evils . 
But perhaps a man is not required to bury himself . 
Behold all souls are mine as the soul of the father , so also the soul of the son is mine the soul that sinneth , it shall die . 
On applying to the assessors , I am surprised to learn that they cannot at once name a dozen in the town who own their farms free and clear . 
If you would know the history of these homesteads , inquire at the bank where they are mortgaged . 
The man who has actually paid for his farm with labor on it is so rare that every neighbor can point to him . 
I doubt if there are three such men in Concord . 
What has been said of the merchants , that a very large majority , even ninety seven in a hundred , are sure to fail , is equally true of the farmers . 
Bankruptcy and repudiation are the springboards from which much of our civilization vaults and turns its somersets , but the savage stands on the unelastic plank of famine . 
Yet the Middlesex Cattle Show goes off here with eclat annually , as if all the joints of the agricultural machine were suent . 
The farmer is endeavoring to solve the problem of a livelihood by a formula more complicated than the problem itself . 
To get his shoestrings he speculates in herds of cattle . 
With consummate skill he has set his trap with a hair spring to catch comfort and independence , and then , as he turned away , got his own leg into it . 
This is the reason he is poor and for a similar reason we are all poor in respect to a thousand savage comforts , though surrounded by luxuries . 
As Chapman sings , The false society of men for earthly greatness All heavenly comforts rarefies to air . 
And when the farmer has got his house , he may not be the richer but the poorer for it , and it be the house that has got him . 
Granted that the majority are able at last either to own or hire the modern house with all its improvements . 
While civilization has been improving our houses , it has not equally improved the men who are to inhabit them . 
It has created palaces , but it was not so easy to create noblemen and kings . 
The luxury of one class is counterbalanced by the indigence of another . 
On the one side is the palace , on the other are the almshouse and silent poor . 
The myriads who built the pyramids to be the tombs of the Pharaohs were fed on garlic , and it may be were not decently buried themselves . 
The mason who finishes the cornice of the palace returns at night perchance to a hut not so good as a wigwam . 
I refer to the degraded poor , not now to the degraded rich . 
It certainly is fair to look at that class by whose labor the works which distinguish this generation are accomplished . 
Such too , to a greater or less extent , is the condition of the operatives of every denomination in England , which is the great workhouse of the world . 
Or I could refer you to Ireland , which is marked as one of the white or enlightened spots on the map . 
Yet I have no doubt that that people's rulers are as wise as the average of civilized rulers . 
Their condition only proves what squalidness may consist with civilization . 
I hardly need refer now to the laborers in our Southern States who produce the staple exports of this country , and are themselves a staple production of the South . 
But to confine myself to those who are said to be in moderate circumstances . 
It is the luxurious and dissipated who set the fashions which the herd so diligently follow . 
I would rather sit on a pumpkin and have it all to myself than be crowded on a velvet cushion . 
The very simplicity and nakedness of man's life in the primitive ages imply this advantage , at least , that they left him still but a sojourner in nature . 
When he was refreshed with food and sleep , he contemplated his journey again . 
He dwelt , as it were , in a tent in this world , and was either threading the valleys , or crossing the plains , or climbing the mountain tops . 
But lo ! men have become the tools of their tools . 
The man who independently plucked the fruits when he was hungry is become a farmer and he who stood under a tree for shelter , a housekeeper . 
We now no longer camp as for a night , but have settled down on earth and forgotten heaven . 
We have adopted Christianity merely as an improved method of agri culture . 
We have built for this world a family mansion , and for the next a family tomb . 
There is not a nail to hang a picture on , nor a shelf to receive the bust of a hero or a saint . 
Without factitious support , man is sure to come to earth again beyond that distance . 
The cart before the horse is neither beautiful nor useful . 
In the course of three or four years , when the country became adapted to agriculture , they built themselves handsome houses , spending on them several thousands . 
In this course which our ancestors took there was a show of prudence at least , as if their principle were to satisfy the more pressing wants first . 
But , alas ! I have been inside one or two of them , and know what they are lined with . 
I speak understandingly on this subject , for I have made myself acquainted with it both theoretically and practically . 
With a little more wit we might use these materials so as to become richer than the richest now are , and make our civilization a blessing . 
The civilized man is a more experienced and wiser savage . 
But to make haste to my own experiment . 
It is difficult to begin without borrowing , but perhaps it is the most generous course thus to permit your fellow men to have an interest in your enterprise . 
The owner of the axe , as he released his hold on it , said that it was the apple of his eye but I returned it sharper than I received it . 
The ice in the pond was not yet dissolved , though there were some open spaces , and it was all dark colored and saturated with water . 
They were pleasant spring days , in which the winter of man's discontent was thawing as well as the earth , and the life that had lain torpid began to stretch itself . 
I had previously seen the snakes in frosty mornings in my path with portions of their bodies still numb and inflexible , waiting for the sun to thaw them . 
Each stick was carefully mortised or tenoned by its stump , for I had borrowed other tools by this time . 
Before I had done I was more the friend than the foe of the pine tree , though I had cut down some of them , having become better acquainted with it . 
Sometimes a rambler in the wood was attracted by the sound of my axe , and we chatted pleasantly over the chips which I had made . 
By the middle of April , for I made no haste in my work , but rather made the most of it , my house was framed and ready for the raising . 
I had already bought the shanty of James Collins , an Irishman who worked on the Fitchburg Railroad , for boards . 
James Collins' shanty was considered an uncommonly fine one . 
When I called to see it he was not at home . 
I walked about the outside , at first unobserved from within , the window was so deep and high . 
The roof was the soundest part , though a good deal warped and made brittle by the sun . 
Doorsill there was none , but a perennial passage for the hens under the door board . 
Mrs. C. came to the door and asked me to view it from the inside . 
The hens were driven in by my approach . 
The bargain was soon concluded , for James had in the meanwhile returned . 
I to pay four dollars and twenty five cents tonight , he to vacate at five tomorrow morning , selling to nobody else meanwhile I to take possession at six . 
It were well , he said , to be there early , and anticipate certain indistinct but wholly unjust claims on the score of ground rent and fuel . 
This he assured me was the only encumbrance . 
At six I passed him and his family on the road . 
One early thrush gave me a note or two as I drove along the woodland path . 
He was there to represent spectatordom , and help make this seemingly insignificant event one with the removal of the gods of Troy . 
The sides were left shelving , and not stoned but the sun having never shone on them , the sand still keeps its place . 
It was but two hours' work . 
I took particular pleasure in this breaking of ground , for in almost all latitudes men dig into the earth for an equable temperature . 
The house is still but a sort of porch at the entrance of a burrow . 
No man was ever more honored in the character of his raisers than I. They are destined , I trust , to assist at the raising of loftier structures one day . 
There is some of the same fitness in a man's building his own house that there is in a bird's building its own nest . 
We belong to the community . 
It is not the tailor alone who is the ninth part of a man it is as much the preacher , and the merchant , and the farmer . 
All very well perhaps from his point of view , but only a little better than the common dilettantism . 
A sentimental reformer in architecture , he began at the cornice , not at the foundation . 
The enemy will find it out . 
He may turn pale when the trial comes . 
This man seemed to me to lean over the cornice , and timidly whisper his half truth to the rude occupants who really knew it better than he . 
A great proportion of architectural ornaments are literally hollow , and a September gale would strip them off , like borrowed plumes , without injury to the substantials . 
They can do without architecture who have no olives nor wines in the cellar . 
Much it concerns a man , forsooth , how a few sticks are slanted over him or under him , and what colors are daubed upon his box . 
One man says , in his despair or indifference to life , take up a handful of the earth at your feet , and paint your house that color . 
Is he thinking of his last and narrow house ? Toss up a copper for it as well . 
An enterprise to improve the style of cottage architecture ! When you have got my ornaments ready , I will wear them . 
Refuse shingles for roof sides . 
Two second hand windows with glass . 
I carried a good part on my back . 
These are all the materials , excepting the timber , stones , and sand , which I claimed by squatter's right . 
I have also a small woodshed adjoining , made chiefly of the stuff which was left after building the house . 
I thus found that the student who wishes for a shelter can obtain one for a lifetime at an expense not greater than the rent which he now pays annually . 
I will endeavor to speak a good word for the truth . 
Those conveniences which the student requires at Cambridge or elsewhere cost him or somebody else ten times as great a sacrifice of life as they would with proper management on both sides . 
Those things for which the most money is demanded are never the things which the student most wants . 
I think that it would be better than this , for the students , or those who desire to be benefited by it , even to lay the foundation themselves . 
How could youths better learn to live than by at once trying the experiment of living ? Methinks this would exercise their minds as much as mathematics . 
To my astonishment I was informed on leaving college that I had studied navigation ! why , if I had taken one turn down the harbor I should have known more about it . 
Even the poor student studies and is taught only political economy , while that economy of living which is synonymous with philosophy is not even sincerely professed in our colleges . 
The consequence is , that while he is reading Adam Smith , Ricardo , and Say , he runs his father in debt irretrievably . 
As with our colleges , so with a hundred modern improvements there is an illusion about them there is not always a positive advance . 
The devil goes on exacting compound interest to the last for his early share and numerous succeeding investments in them . 
Our inventions are wont to be pretty toys , which distract our attention from serious things . 
They are but improved means to an unimproved end , an end which it was already but too easy to arrive at as railroads lead to Boston or New York . 
We are in great haste to construct a magnetic telegraph from Maine to Texas but Maine and Texas , it may be , have nothing important to communicate . 
As if the main object were to talk fast and not to talk sensibly . 
I doubt if Flying Childers ever carried a peck of corn to mill . 
One says to me , I wonder that you do not lay up money you love to travel you might take the cars and go to Fitchburg today and see the country . 
But I am wiser than that . 
I have learned that the swiftest traveller is he that goes afoot . 
I say to my friend , Suppose we try who will get there first . 
The distance is thirty miles the fare ninety cents . 
That is almost a day's wages . 
I remember when wages were sixty cents a day for laborers on this very road . 
Well , I start now on foot , and get there before night I have travelled at that rate by the week together . 
You will in the meanwhile have earned your fare , and arrive there some time tomorrow , or possibly this evening , if you are lucky enough to get a job in season . 
Instead of going to Fitchburg , you will be working here the greater part of the day . 
Such is the universal law , which no man can ever outwit , and with regard to the railroad even we may say it is as broad as it is long . 
To make a railroad round the world available to all mankind is equivalent to grading the whole surface of the planet . 
He should have gone up garret at once . 
The whole lot contains eleven acres , mostly growing up to pines and hickories , and was sold the preceding season for eight dollars and eight cents an acre . 
One farmer said that it was good for nothing but to raise cheeping squirrels on . 
The dead and for the most part unmerchantable wood behind my house , and the driftwood from the pond , have supplied the remainder of my fuel . 
I was obliged to hire a team and a man for the plowing , though I held the plow myself . 
My farm outgoes for the first season were , for implements , seed , work , etc . 
The seed corn was given me . 
This never costs anything to speak of , unless you plant more than enough . 
I got twelve bushels of beans , and eighteen bushels of potatoes , beside some peas and sweet corn . 
The yellow corn and turnips were too late to come to anything . 
My whole income from the farm was . 
beside produce consumed and on hand at the time this estimate was made of the value of . 
the amount on hand much more than balancing a little grass which I did not raise . 
I desire to speak impartially on this point , and as one not interested in the success or failure of the present economical and social arrangements . 
Beside being better off than they already , if my house had been burned or my crops had failed , I should have been nearly as well off as before . 
I am wont to think that men are not so much the keepers of herds as herds are the keepers of men , the former are so much the freer . 
Men and oxen exchange work but if we consider necessary work only , the oxen will be seen to have greatly the advantage , their farm is so much the larger . 
Man does some of his part of the exchange work in his six weeks of haying , and it is no boy's play . 
Certainly no nation that lived simply in all respects , that is , no nation of philosophers , would commit so great a blunder as to use the labor of animals . 
True , there never was and is not likely soon to be a nation of philosophers , nor am I certain it is desirable that there should be . 
Man thus not only works for the animal within him , but , for a symbol of this , he works for the animal without him . 
Though we have many substantial houses of brick or stone , the prosperity of the farmer is still measured by the degree to which the barn overshadows the house . 
A simple and independent mind does not toil at the bidding of any prince . 
Genius is not a retainer to any emperor , nor is its material silver , or gold , or marble , except to a trifling extent . 
To what end , pray , is so much stone hammered ? In Arcadia , when I was there , I did not see any hammering stone . 
Nations are possessed with an insane ambition to perpetuate the memory of themselves by the amount of hammered stone they leave . 
What if equal pains were taken to smooth and polish their manners ? One piece of good sense would be more memorable than a monument as high as the moon . 
I love better to see stones in place . 
The grandeur of Thebes was a vulgar grandeur . 
More sensible is a rod of stone wall that bounds an honest man's field than a hundred gated Thebes that has wandered farther from the true end of life . 
The religion and civilization which are barbaric and heathenish build splendid temples but what you might call Christianity does not . 
Most of the stone a nation hammers goes toward its tomb only . 
I might possibly invent some excuse for them and him , but I have no time for it . 
It costs more than it comes to . 
The mainspring is vanity , assisted by the love of garlic and bread and butter . 
When the thirty centuries begin to look down on it , mankind begin to look up at it . 
Many are concerned about the monuments of the West and the East to know who built them . 
For my part , I should like to know who in those days did not build them who were above such trifling . 
But to proceed with my statistics . 
By surveying , carpentry , and day labor of various other kinds in the village in the meanwhile , for I have as many trades as fingers , I had earned . 
Cheapest form of the saccharine . 
All experiments which failed Flour . 
Costs more than Indian meal , both money and trouble . 
Yes , I did eat . 
Clothing and some incidental expenses within the same dates , though little can be inferred from this item , amounted to . 
Oil and some household utensils . 
I address myself now to those of my readers who have a living to get . 
And to meet this I have for farm produce sold . 
, which subtracted from the sum of the outgoes leaves a balance of . 
These statistics , however accidental and therefore uninstructive they may appear , as they have a certain completeness , have a certain value also . 
Nothing was given me of which I have not rendered some account . 
It appears from the above estimate , that my food alone cost me in money about twenty seven cents a week . 
It was fit that I should live on rice , mainly , who love so well the philosophy of India . 
But the dining out , being , as I have stated , a constant element , does not in the least affect a comparative statement like this . 
which I gathered in my cornfield , boiled and salted . 
I give the Latin on account of the savoriness of the trivial name . 
In cold weather it was no little amusement to bake several small loaves of this in succession , tending and turning them as carefully as an Egyptian his hatching eggs . 
It is simpler and more respectable to omit it . 
Man is an animal who more than any other can adapt himself to all climates and circumstances . 
Neither did I put any sal soda , or other acid or alkali , into my bread . 
It would seem that I made it according to the recipe which Marcus Porcius Cato gave about two centuries before Christ . 
Farinam in mortarium indito , aquae paulatim addito , subigitoque pulchre . 
Ubi bene subegeris , defingito , coquitoque sub testu . 
Which I take to mean , Make kneaded bread thus . 
Wash your hands and trough well . 
Put the meal into the trough , add water gradually , and knead it thoroughly . 
When you have kneaded it well , mould it , and bake it under a cover , that is , in a baking kettle . 
Not a word about leaven . 
But I did not always use this staff of life . 
At one time , owing to the emptiness of my purse , I saw none of it for more than a month . 
Every New Englander might easily raise all his own breadstuffs in this land of rye and Indian corn , and not depend on distant and fluctuating markets for them . 
For , as the Forefathers sang , we can make liquor to sweeten our lips Of pumpkins and parsnips and walnut tree chips . 
I do not learn that the Indians ever troubled themselves to go after it . 
Thus I could avoid all trade and barter , so far as my food was concerned , and having a shelter already , it would only remain to get clothing and fuel . 
But as it was , I considered that I enhanced the value of the land by squatting on it . 
If they cannot understand that , they cannot understand much that I have to say . 
The squirrel tribe tried the same and succeeded . 
The human race is interested in these experiments , though a few old women who are incapacitated for them , or who own their thirds in mills , may be alarmed . 
None is so poor that he need sit on a pumpkin . 
There is a plenty of such chairs as I like best in the village garrets to be had for taking them away . 
Furniture ! Thank God , I can sit and I can stand without the aid of a furniture warehouse . 
I could never tell from inspecting such a load whether it belonged to a so called rich man or a poor one the owner always seemed poverty stricken . 
Indeed , the more you have of such things the poorer you are . 
Each load looks as if it contained the contents of a dozen shanties and if one shanty is poor , this is a dozen times as poor . 
He was a lucky fox that left his tail in the trap . 
The muskrat will gnaw his third leg off to be free . 
No wonder man has lost his elasticity . 
I think that the man is at a dead set who has got through a knot hole or gateway where his sledge load of furniture cannot follow him . 
But what shall I do with my furniture ? My gay butterfly is entangled in a spider's web then . 
Even those who seem for a long while not to have any , if you inquire more narrowly you will find have some stored in somebody's barn . 
Throw away the first three at least . 
It would surpass the powers of a well man nowadays to take up his bed and walk , and I should certainly advise a sick one to lay down his bed and run . 
If I have got to drag my trap , I will take care that it be a light one and do not nip me in a vital part . 
But perchance it would be wisest never to put one's paw into it . 
It is best to avoid the beginnings of evil . 
Not long since I was present at the auction of a deacon's effects , for his life had not been ineffectual The evil that men do lives after them . 
As usual , a great proportion was trumpery which had begun to accumulate in his father's day . 
Among the rest was a dried tapeworm . 
When a man dies he kicks the dust . 
After having taken medicine , and fasted for three days , all the fire in the town is extinguished . 
During this fast they abstain from the gratification of every appetite and passion whatever . 
A general amnesty is proclaimed all malefactors may return to their town . 
The Mexicans also practised a similar purification at the end of every fifty two years , in the belief that it was time for the world to come to an end . 
The whole of my winters , as well as most of my summers , I had free and clear for study . 
As I did not teach for the good of my fellow men , but simply for a livelihood , this was a failure . 
I have tried trade but I found that it would take ten years to get under way in that , and that then I should probably be on my way to the devil . 
I was actually afraid that I might by that time be doing what is called a good business . 
But I have since learned that trade curses everything it handles and though you trade in messages from heaven , the whole curse of trade attaches to the business . 
If there are any to whom it is no interruption to acquire these things , and who know how to use them when acquired , I relinquish to them the pursuit . 
Some are industrious , and appear to love labor for its own sake , or perhaps because it keeps them out of worse mischief to such I have at present nothing to say . 
For myself I found that the occupation of a day laborer was the most independent of any , especially as it required only thirty or forty days in a year to support one . 
It is not necessary that a man should earn his living by the sweat of his brow , unless he sweats easier than I do . 
One young man of my acquaintance , who has inherited some acres , told me that he thought he should live as I did , if he had the means . 
The youth may build or plant or sail , only let him not be hindered from doing that which he tells me he would like to do . 
We may not arrive at our port within a calculable period , but we would preserve the true course . 
But for my part , I preferred the solitary dwelling . 
To co operate in the highest as well as the lowest sense , means to get our living together . 
It was easy to see that they could not long be companions or co operate , since one would not operate at all . 
They would part at the first interesting crisis in their adventures . 
But all this is very selfish , I have heard some of my townsmen say . 
I confess that I have hitherto indulged very little in philanthropic enterprises . 
I have made some sacrifices to a sense of duty , and among others have sacrificed this pleasure also . 
While my townsmen and women are devoted in so many ways to the good of their fellows , I trust that one at least may be spared to other and less humane pursuits . 
You must have a genius for charity as well as for anything else . 
As for Doing good , that is one of the professions which are full . 
Moreover , I have tried it fairly , and , strange as it may seem , am satisfied that it does not agree with my constitution . 
I am far from supposing that my case is a peculiar one no doubt many of my readers would make a similar defence . 
What good I do , in the common sense of that word , must be aside from my main path , and for the most part wholly unintended . 
Men say , practically , Begin where you are and such as you are , without aiming mainly to become of more worth , and with kindness aforethought go about doing good . 
If I were to preach at all in this strain , I should say rather , Set about being good . 
There is no odor so bad as that which arises from goodness tainted . 
It is human , it is divine , carrion . 
No in this case I would rather suffer evil the natural way . 
I can find you a Newfoundland dog that will do as much . 
Philanthropy is not love for one's fellow man in the broadest sense . 
The Jesuits were quite balked by those Indians who , being burned at the stake , suggested new modes of torture to their tormentors . 
Be sure that you give the poor the aid they most need , though it be your example which leaves them far behind . 
If you give money , spend yourself with it , and do not merely abandon it to them . 
We make curious mistakes sometimes . 
Often the poor man is not so cold and hungry as he is dirty and ragged and gross . 
It is partly his taste , and not merely his misfortune . 
If you give him money , he will perhaps buy more rags with it . 
This ducking was the very thing he needed . 
Then I began to pity myself , and I saw that it would be a greater charity to bestow on me a flannel shirt than a whole slop shop on him . 
It is the pious slave breeder devoting the proceeds of every tenth slave to buy a Sunday's liberty for the rest . 
Some show their kindness to the poor by employing them in their kitchens . 
Society recovers only a tenth part of the property then . 
Nay , it is greatly overrated and it is our selfishness which overrates it . 
A robust poor man , one sunny day here in Concord , praised a fellow townsman to me , because , as he said , he was kind to the poor meaning himself . 
The kind uncles and aunts of the race are more esteemed than its true spiritual fathers and mothers . 
They were Penn , Howard , and Mrs. Fry . 
Every one must feel the falsehood and cant of this . 
The last were not England's best men and women only , perhaps , her best philanthropists . 
I would not subtract anything from the praise that is due to philanthropy , but merely demand justice for all who by their lives and works are a blessing to mankind . 
I do not value chiefly a man's uprightness and benevolence , which are , as it were , his stem and leaves . 
Those plants of whose greenness withered we make herb tea for the sick serve but a humble use , and are most employed by quacks . 
I want the flower and fruit of a man that some fragrance be wafted over from him to me , and some ripeness flavor our intercourse . 
His goodness must not be a partial and transitory act , but a constant superfluity , which costs him nothing and of which he is unconscious . 
This is a charity that hides a multitude of sins . 
The philanthropist too often surrounds mankind with the remembrance of his own castoff griefs as an atmosphere , and calls it sympathy . 
We should impart our courage , and not our despair , our health and ease , and not our disease , and take care that this does not spread by contagion . 
I never dreamed of any enormity greater than I have committed . 
I never knew , and never shall know , a worse man than myself . 
I believe that what so saddens the reformer is not his sympathy with his fellows in distress , but , though he be the holiest son of God , is his private ail . 
Let this be righted , let the spring come to him , the morning rise over his couch , and he will forsake his generous companions without apology . 
If you should ever be betrayed into any of these philanthropies , do not let your left hand know what your right hand does , for it is not worth knowing . 
Rescue the drowning and tie your shoestrings . 
Take your time , and set about some free labor . 
Our manners have been corrupted by communication with the saints . 
Our hymn books resound with a melodious cursing of God and enduring Him forever . 
One would say that even the prophets and redeemers had rather consoled the fears than confirmed the hopes of man . 
There is nowhere recorded a simple and irrepressible satisfaction with the gift of life , any memorable praise of God . 
Do not stay to be an overseer of the poor , but endeavor to become one of the worthies of the world . 
We not require the dull society Of your necessitated temperance , Or that unnatural stupidity That knows nor joy nor sorrow nor your forc'd Falsely exalted passive fortitude Above the active . 
Back to thy loath'd cell And when thou seest the new enlightened sphere , Study to know but what those worthies were . 
T. CAREW Where I Lived , and What I Lived For At a certain season of our life we are accustomed to consider every spot as the possible site of a house . 
I have thus surveyed the country on every side within a dozen miles of where I live . 
In imagination I have bought all the farms in succession , for all were to be bought , and I knew their price . 
This experience entitled me to be regarded as a sort of real estate broker by my friends . 
Wherever I sat , there I might live , and the landscape radiated from me accordingly . 
What is a house but a sedes , a seat ? better if a country seat . 
The future inhabitants of this region , wherever they may place their houses , may be sure that they have been anticipated . 
My imagination carried me so far that I even had the refusal of several farms the refusal was all I wanted but I never got my fingers burned by actual possession . 
I found thus that I had been a rich man without any damage to my poverty . 
But I retained the landscape , and I have since annually carried off what it yielded without a wheelbarrow . 
With respect to landscapes , I am monarch of all I survey , My right there is none to dispute . 
I have frequently seen a poet withdraw , having enjoyed the most valuable part of a farm , while the crusty farmer supposed that he had got a few wild apples only . 
But it turned out as I have said . 
All that I could say , then , with respect to farming on a large scale I have always cultivated a garden was , that I had had my seeds ready . 
Many think that seeds improve with age . 
I have no doubt that time discriminates between the good and the bad and when at last I shall plant , I shall be less likely to be disappointed . 
But I would say to my fellows , once for all , As long as possible live free and uncommitted . 
It makes but little difference whether you are committed to a farm or the county jail . 
The oftener you go there the more it will please you , if it is good . 
The present was my next experiment of this kind , which I purpose to describe more at length , for convenience putting the experience of two years into one . 
To my imagination it retained throughout the day more or less of this auroral character , reminding me of a certain house on a mountain which I had visited a year before . 
This was an airy and unplastered cabin , fit to entertain a travelling god , and where a goddess might trail her garments . 
The winds which passed over my dwelling were such as sweep over the ridges of mountains , bearing the broken strains , or celestial parts only , of terrestrial music . 
The morning wind forever blows , the poem of creation is uninterrupted but few are the ears that hear it . 
Olympus is but the outside of the earth everywhere . 
With this more substantial shelter about me , I had made some progress toward settling in the world . 
This frame , so slightly clad , was a sort of crystallization around me , and reacted on the builder . 
It was suggestive somewhat as a picture in outlines . 
I did not need to go outdoors to take the air , for the atmosphere within had lost none of its freshness . 
It was not so much within doors as behind a door where I sat , even in the rainiest weather . 
The Harivansa says , An abode without birds is like a meat without seasoning . 
Such was not my abode , for I found myself suddenly neighbor to the birds not by having imprisoned one , but having caged myself near them . 
The very dew seemed to hang upon the trees later into the day than usual , as on the sides of mountains . 
That way I looked between and over the near green hills to some distant and higher ones in the horizon , tinged with blue . 
But in other directions , even from this point , I could not see over or beyond the woods which surrounded me . 
It is well to have some water in your neighborhood , to give buoyancy to and float the earth . 
One value even of the smallest well is , that when you look into it you see that earth is not continent but insular . 
This is as important as that it keeps butter cool . 
Though the view from my door was still more contracted , I did not feel crowded or confined in the least . 
There was pasture enough for my imagination . 
There are none happy in the world but beings who enjoy freely a vast horizon said Damodara , when his herds required new and larger pastures . 
Both place and time were changed , and I dwelt nearer to those parts of the universe and to those eras in history which had most attracted me . 
Where I lived was as far off as many a region viewed nightly by astronomers . 
We are wont to imagine rare and delectable places in some remote and more celestial corner of the system , behind the constellation of Cassiopeia's Chair , far from noise and disturbance . 
I discovered that my house actually had its site in such a withdrawn , but forever new and unprofaned , part of the universe . 
I have been as sincere a worshipper of Aurora as the Greeks . 
I got up early and bathed in the pond that was a religious exercise , and one of the best things which I did . 
They say that characters were engraven on the bathing tub of King Tchingthang to this effect Renew thyself completely each day do it again , and again , and forever again . 
Morning brings back the heroic ages . 
It was Homer's requiem itself an Iliad and Odyssey in the air , singing its own wrath and wanderings . 
There was something cosmical about it a standing advertisement , till forbidden , of the everlasting vigor and fertility of the world . 
The morning , which is the most memorable season of the day , is the awakening hour . 
Then there is least somnolence in us and for an hour , at least , some part of us awakes which slumbers all the rest of the day and night . 
All memorable events , I should say , transpire in morning time and in a morning atmosphere . 
The Vedas say , All intelligences awake with the morning . 
Poetry and art , and the fairest and most memorable of the actions of men , date from such an hour . 
All poets and heroes , like Memnon , are the children of Aurora , and emit their music at sunrise . 
To him whose elastic and vigorous thought keeps pace with the sun , the day is a perpetual morning . 
It matters not what the clocks say or the attitudes and labors of men . 
Morning is when I am awake and there is a dawn in me . 
Moral reform is the effort to throw off sleep . 
Why is it that men give so poor an account of their day if they have not been slumbering ? They are not such poor calculators . 
If they had not been overcome with drowsiness , they would have performed something . 
To be awake is to be alive . 
I have never yet met a man who was quite awake . 
I know of no more encouraging fact than the unquestionable ability of man to elevate his life by a conscious endeavor . 
To affect the quality of the day , that is the highest of arts . 
Every man is tasked to make his life , even in its details , worthy of the contemplation of his most elevated and critical hour . 
If we refused , or rather used up , such paltry information as we get , the oracles would distinctly inform us how this might be done . 
I did not wish to live what was not life , living is so dear nor did I wish to practise resignation , unless it was quite necessary . 
Our life is frittered away by detail . 
An honest man has hardly need to count more than his ten fingers , or in extreme cases he may add his ten toes , and lump the rest . 
Instead of three meals a day , if it be necessary eat but one instead of a hundred dishes , five and reduce other things in proportion . 
Did you ever think what those sleepers are that underlie the railroad ? Each one is a man , an Irishman , or a Yankee man . 
The rails are laid on them , and they are covered with sand , and the cars run smoothly over them . 
They are sound sleepers , I assure you . 
Why should we live with such hurry and waste of life ? We are determined to be starved before we are hungry . 
Men say that a stitch in time saves nine , and so they take a thousand stitches today to save nine tomorrow . 
As for work , we haven't any of any consequence . 
We have the Saint Vitus' dance , and cannot possibly keep our heads still . 
Some give directions to be waked every half hour , doubtless for no other purpose and then , to pay for it , they tell what they have dreamed . 
After a night's sleep the news is as indispensable as the breakfast . 
For my part , I could easily do without the post office . 
I think that there are very few important communications made through it . 
To speak critically , I never received more than one or two letters in my life I wrote this some years ago that were worth the postage . 
The penny post is , commonly , an institution through which you seriously offer a man that penny for his thoughts which is so often safely offered in jest . 
And I am sure that I never read any memorable news in a newspaper . 
Yet not a few are greedy after this gossip . 
If one may judge who rarely looks into the newspapers , nothing new does ever happen in foreign parts , a French revolution not excepted . 
sent a man to Khoung tseu to know his news . 
If we respected only what is inevitable and has a right to be , music and poetry would resound along the streets . 
This is always exhilarating and sublime . 
One of his father's ministers having discovered him , revealed to him what he was , and the misconception of his character was removed , and he knew himself to be a prince . 
I perceive that we inhabitants of New England live this mean life that we do because our vision does not penetrate the surface of things . 
We think that that is which appears to be . 
Men esteem truth remote , in the outskirts of the system , behind the farthest star , before Adam and after the last man . 
In eternity there is indeed something true and sublime . 
But all these times and places and occasions are now and here . 
God himself culminates in the present moment , and will never be more divine in the lapse of all the ages . 
And we are enabled to apprehend at all what is sublime and noble only by the perpetual instilling and drenching of the reality that surrounds us . 
The universe constantly and obediently answers to our conceptions whether we travel fast or slow , the track is laid for us . 
Let us spend our lives in conceiving then . 
The poet or the artist never yet had so fair and noble a design but some of his posterity at least could accomplish it . 
Let us spend one day as deliberately as Nature , and not be thrown off the track by every nutshell and mosquito's wing that falls on the rails . 
Why should we knock under and go with the stream ? Let us not be upset and overwhelmed in that terrible rapid and whirlpool called a dinner , situated in the meridian shallows . 
Weather this danger and you are safe , for the rest of the way is down hill . 
With unrelaxed nerves , with morning vigor , sail by it , looking another way , tied to the mast like Ulysses . 
If the engine whistles , let it whistle till it is hoarse for its pains . 
If the bell rings , why should we run ? We will consider what kind of music they are like . 
Be it life or death , we crave only reality . 
If we are really dying , let us hear the rattle in our throats and feel cold in the extremities if we are alive , let us go about our business . 
Time is but the stream I go a fishing in . 
I drink at it but while I drink I see the sandy bottom and detect how shallow it is . 
Its thin current slides away , but eternity remains . 
I would drink deeper fish in the sky , whose bottom is pebbly with stars . 
I know not the first letter of the alphabet . 
I have always been regretting that I was not as wise as the day I was born . 
The intellect is a cleaver it discerns and rifts its way into the secret of things . 
I do not wish to be any more busy with my hands than is necessary . 
My head is hands and feet . 
I feel all my best faculties concentrated in it . 
I think that the richest vein is somewhere hereabouts so by the divining rod and thin rising vapors I judge and here I will begin to mine . 
No dust has settled on that robe no time has elapsed since that divinity was revealed . 
That time which we really improve , or which is improvable , is neither past , present , nor future . 
Says the poet Mr Udd , Being seated , to run through the region of the spiritual world I have had this advantage in books . 
To be intoxicated by a single glass of wine I have experienced this pleasure when I have drunk the liquor of the esoteric doctrines . 
I kept Homer's Iliad on my table through the summer , though I looked at his page only now and then . 
Incessant labor with my hands , at first , for I had my house to finish and my beans to hoe at the same time , made more study impossible . 
Yet I sustained myself by the prospect of such reading in future . 
The modern cheap and fertile press , with all its translations , has done little to bring us nearer to the heroic writers of antiquity . 
They seem as solitary , and the letter in which they are printed as rare and curious , as ever . 
It is not in vain that the farmer remembers and repeats the few Latin words which he has heard . 
We might as well omit to study Nature because she is old . 
It requires a training such as the athletes underwent , the steady intention almost of the whole life to this object . 
Books must be read as deliberately and reservedly as they were written . 
The one is commonly transitory , a sound , a tongue , a dialect merely , almost brutish , and we learn it unconsciously , like the brutes , of our mothers . 
What the Roman and Grecian multitude could not hear , after the lapse of ages a few scholars read , and a few scholars only are still reading it . 
There are the stars , and they who can may read them . 
The astronomers forever comment on and observe them . 
They are not exhalations like our daily colloquies and vaporous breath . 
What is called eloquence in the forum is commonly found to be rhetoric in the study . 
No wonder that Alexander carried the Iliad with him on his expeditions in a precious casket . 
A written word is the choicest of relics . 
It is something at once more intimate with us and more universal than any other work of art . 
It is the work of art nearest to life itself . 
The symbol of an ancient man's thought becomes a modern man's speech . 
Books are the treasured wealth of the world and the fit inheritance of generations and nations . 
Books , the oldest and the best , stand naturally and rightfully on the shelves of every cottage . 
They have no cause of their own to plead , but while they enlighten and sustain the reader his common sense will not refuse them . 
Their authors are a natural and irresistible aristocracy in every society , and , more than kings or emperors , exert an influence on mankind . 
They only talk of forgetting them who never knew them . 
It will be soon enough to forget them when we have the learning and the genius which will enable us to attend to and appreciate them . 
By such a pile we may hope to scale heaven at last . 
The works of the great poets have never yet been read by mankind , for only great poets can read them . 
They have only been read as the multitude read the stars , at most astrologically , not astronomically . 
There is a work in several volumes in our Circulating Library entitled Little Reading , which I thought referred to a town of that name which I had not been to . 
If others are the machines to provide this provender , they are the machines to read it . 
The next time the novelist rings the bell I will not stir though the meeting house burn down . 
The result is dulness of sight , a stagnation of the vital circulations , and a general deliquium and sloughing off of all the intellectual faculties . 
This sort of gingerbread is baked daily and more sedulously than pure wheat or rye and Indian in almost every oven , and finds a surer market . 
The best books are not read even by those who are called good readers . 
This is about as much as the college bred generally do or aspire to do , and they take an English paper for the purpose . 
I aspire to be acquainted with wiser men than this our Concord soil has produced , whose names are hardly known here . 
But how actually is it ? His Dialogues , which contain what was immortal in him , lie on the next shelf , and yet I never read them . 
We should be as good as the worthies of antiquity , but partly by first knowing how good they were . 
We are a race of tit men , and soar but little higher in our intellectual flights than the columns of the daily paper . 
It is not all books that are as dull as their readers . 
The at present unutterable things we may find somewhere uttered . 
Moreover , with wisdom we shall learn liberality . 
Let him humbly commune with Zoroaster then , and through the liberalizing influence of all the worthies , with Jesus Christ himself , and let our church go by the board . 
We boast that we belong to the Nineteenth Century and are making the most rapid strides of any nation . 
But consider how little this village does for its own culture . 
I do not wish to flatter my townsmen , nor to be flattered by them , for that will not advance either of us . 
We need to be provoked goaded like oxen , as we are , into a trot . 
We spend more on almost any article of bodily aliment or ailment than on our mental aliment . 
It is time that we had uncommon schools , that we did not leave off our education when we begin to be men and women . 
In this country , the village should in some respects take the place of the nobleman of Europe . 
It should be the patron of the fine arts . 
It wants only the magnanimity and refinement . 
The one hundred and twenty five dollars annually subscribed for a Lyceum in the winter is better spent than any other equal sum raised in the town . 
Let the reports of all the learned societies come to us , and we will see if they know anything . 
Why should we leave it to Harper Brothers and Redding Co . 
To act collectively is according to the spirit of our institutions and I am confident that , as our circumstances are more flourishing , our means are greater than the nobleman's . 
New England can hire all the wise men in the world to come and teach her , and board them round the while , and not be provincial at all . 
That is the uncommon school we want . 
Instead of noblemen , let us have noble villages of men . 
If it is necessary , omit one bridge over the river , go round a little there , and throw one arch at least over the darker gulf of ignorance which surrounds us . 
Much is published , but little printed . 
The rays which stream through the shutter will be no longer remembered when the shutter is wholly removed . 
No method nor discipline can supersede the necessity of being forever on the alert . 
I did not read books the first summer I hoed beans . 
Nay , I often did better than this . 
There were times when I could not afford to sacrifice the bloom of the present moment to any work , whether of the head or hands . 
I love a broad margin to my life . 
I grew in those seasons like corn in the night , and they were far better than any work of the hands would have been . 
They were not time subtracted from my life , but so much over and above my usual allowance . 
I realized what the Orientals mean by contemplation and the forsaking of works . 
For the most part , I minded not how the hours went . 
The day advanced as if to light some work of mine it was morning , and lo , now it is evening , and nothing memorable is accomplished . 
Instead of singing like the birds , I silently smiled at my incessant good fortune . 
As the sparrow had its trill , sitting on the hickory before my door , so had I my chuckle or suppressed warble which he might hear out of my nest . 
This was sheer idleness to my fellow townsmen , no doubt but if the birds and flowers had tried me by their standard , I should not have been found wanting . 
A man must find his occasions in himself , it is true . 
The natural day is very calm , and will hardly reprove his indolence . 
It was a drama of many scenes and without an end . 
If we were always , indeed , getting our living , and regulating our lives according to the last and best mode we had learned , we should never be troubled with ennui . 
Follow your genius closely enough , and it will not fail to show you a fresh prospect every hour . 
Housework was a pleasant pastime . 
They seemed glad to get out themselves , and as if unwilling to be brought in . 
I was sometimes tempted to stretch an awning over them and take my seat there . 
It looked as if this was the way these forms came to be transferred to our furniture , to tables , chairs , and bedsteads because they once stood in their midst . 
In my front yard grew the strawberry , blackberry , and life everlasting , johnswort and goldenrod , shrub oaks and sand cherry , blueberry and groundnut . 
I tasted them out of compliment to Nature , though they were scarcely palatable . 
grew luxuriantly about the house , pushing up through the embankment which I had made , and growing five or six feet the first season . 
Its broad pinnate tropical leaf was pleasant though strange to look on . 
The Fitchburg Railroad touches the pond about a hundred rods south of where I dwell . 
I usually go to the village along its causeway , and am , as it were , related to society by this link . 
I too would fain be a track repairer somewhere in the orbit of the earth . 
As they come under one horizon , they shout their warning to get off the track to the other , heard sometimes through the circles of two towns . 
Here come your groceries , country your rations , countrymen ! Nor is there any man so independent on his farm that he can say them nay . 
With such huge and lumbering civility the country hands a chair to the city . 
All the Indian huckleberry hills are stripped , all the cranberry meadows are raked into the city . 
Up comes the cotton , down goes the woven cloth up comes the silk , down goes the woollen up come the books , but down goes the wit that writes them . 
, it seems as if the earth had got a race now worthy to inhabit it . 
I watch the passage of the morning cars with the same feeling that I do the rising of the sun , which is hardly more regular . 
The stabler of the iron horse was up early this winter morning by the light of the stars amid the mountains , to fodder and harness his steed . 
Fire , too , was awakened thus early to put the vital heat in him and get him off . 
The startings and arrivals of the cars are now the epochs in the village day . 
To do things railroad fashion is now the byword and it is worth the while to be warned so often and so sincerely by any power to get off its track . 
There is no stopping to read the riot act , no firing over the heads of the mob , in this case . 
We have constructed a fate , an Atropos , that never turns aside . 
We live the steadier for it . 
We are all educated thus to be sons of Tell . 
The air is full of invisible bolts . 
Every path but your own is the path of fate . 
Keep on your own track , then . 
What recommends commerce to me is its enterprise and bravery . 
It does not clasp its hands and pray to Jupiter . 
Commerce is unexpectedly confident and serene , alert , adventurous , and unwearied . 
It is very natural in its methods withal , far more so than many fantastic enterprises and sentimental experiments , and hence its singular success . 
This carload of torn sails is more legible and interesting now than if they should be wrought into paper and printed books . 
Who can write so graphically the history of the storms they have weathered as these rents have done ? They are proof sheets which need no correction . 
Next rolls Thomaston lime , a prime lot , which will get far among the hills before it gets slacked . 
I confess , that practically speaking , when I have learned a man's real disposition , I have no hopes of changing it for the better or worse in this state of existence . 
It is advertised in the Cuttingsville Times . 
While these things go up other things come down . 
The air is filled with the bleating of calves and sheep , and the hustling of oxen , as if a pastoral valley were going by . 
When the old bell wether at the head rattles his bell , the mountains do indeed skip like rams and the little hills like lambs . 
But their dogs , where are they ? It is a stampede to them they are quite thrown out they have lost the scent . 
Methinks I hear them barking behind the Peterboro' Hills , or panting up the western slope of the Green Mountains . 
They will not be in at the death . 
Their vocation , too , is gone . 
Their fidelity and sagacity are below par now . 
They will slink back to their kennels in disgrace , or perchance run wild and strike a league with the wolf and the fox . 
So is your pastoral life whirled past and away . 
But the bell rings , and I must get off the track and let the cars go by What's the railroad to me ? I never go to see Where it ends . 
I will not have my eyes put out and my ears spoiled by its smoke and steam and hissing . 
Now that the cars are gone by and all the restless world with them , and the fishes in the pond no longer feel their rumbling , I am more alone than ever . 
For the rest of the long afternoon , perhaps , my meditations are interrupted only by the faint rattle of a carriage or team along the distant highway . 
At a sufficient distance over the woods this sound acquires a certain vibratory hum , as if the pine needles in the horizon were the strings of a harp which it swept . 
The echo is , to some extent , an original sound , and therein is the magic and charm of it . 
It is not merely a repetition of what was worth repeating in the bell , but partly the voice of the wood the same trivial words and notes sung by a wood nymph . 
They would begin to sing almost with as much precision as a clock , within five minutes of a particular time , referred to the setting of the sun , every evening . 
I had a rare opportunity to become acquainted with their habits . 
Sometimes one would circle round and round me in the woods a few feet distant as if tethered by a string , when probably I was near its eggs . 
They sang at intervals throughout the night , and were again as musical as ever just before and about dawn . 
When other birds are still , the screech owls take up the strain , like mourning women their ancient u lu lu . 
Their dismal scream is truly Ben Jonsonian . 
They give me a new sense of the variety and capacity of that nature which is our common dwelling . 
I was also serenaded by a hooting owl . 
It reminded me of ghouls and idiots and insane howlings . 
I rejoice that there are owls . 
Let them do the idiotic and maniacal hooting for men . 
It is a sound admirably suited to swamps and twilight woods which no day illustrates , suggesting a vast and undeveloped nature which men have not recognized . 
They represent the stark twilight and unsatisfied thoughts which all have . 
All climates agree with brave Chanticleer . 
He is more indigenous even than the natives . 
His health is ever good , his lungs are sound , his spirits never flag . 
Even the sailor on the Atlantic and Pacific is awakened by his voice but its shrill sound never roused me from my slumbers . 
An old fashioned man would have lost his senses or died of ennui before this . 
Not even a lark or an oriole , those mild plantation birds , ever visited my clearing . 
No cockerels to crow nor hens to cackle in the yard . 
No yard ! but unfenced nature reaching up to your very sills . 
Instead of a scuttle or a blind blown off in the gale a pine tree snapped off or torn up by the roots behind your house for fuel . 
Instead of no path to the front yard gate in the Great Snow no gate no front yard and no path to the civilized world . 
Solitude This is a delicious evening , when the whole body is one sense , and imbibes delight through every pore . 
I go and come with a strange liberty in Nature , a part of herself . 
The bullfrogs trump to usher in the night , and the note of the whip poor will is borne on the rippling wind from over the water . 
Sympathy with the fluttering alder and poplar leaves almost takes away my breath yet , like the lake , my serenity is rippled but not ruffled . 
These small waves raised by the evening wind are as remote from storm as the smooth reflecting surface . 
Though it is now dark , the wind still blows and roars in the wood , the waves still dash , and some creatures lull the rest with their notes . 
The repose is never complete . 
The wildest animals do not repose , but seek their prey now the fox , and skunk , and rabbit , now roam the fields and woods without fear . 
They are Nature's watchmen links which connect the days of animated life . 
They who come rarely to the woods take some little piece of the forest into their hands to play with by the way , which they leave , either intentionally or accidentally . 
One has peeled a willow wand , woven it into a ring , and dropped it on my table . 
Nay , I was frequently notified of the passage of a traveller along the highway sixty rods off by the scent of his pipe . 
There is commonly sufficient space about us . 
Our horizon is never quite at our elbows . 
But for the most part it is as solitary where I live as on the prairies . 
It is as much Asia or Africa as New England . 
I have , as it were , my own sun and moon and stars , and a little world all to myself . 
I believe that men are generally still a little afraid of the dark , though the witches are all hung , and Christianity and candles have been introduced . 
There can be no very black melancholy to him who lives in the midst of Nature and has his senses still . 
There was never yet such a storm but it was AEolian music to a healthy and innocent ear . 
Nothing can rightly compel a simple and brave man to a vulgar sadness . 
While I enjoy the friendship of the seasons I trust that nothing can make life a burden to me . 
The gentle rain which waters my beans and keeps me in the house today is not drear and melancholy , but good for me too . 
Though it prevents my hoeing them , it is of far more worth than my hoeing . 
I do not flatter myself , but if it be possible they flatter me . 
To be alone was something unpleasant . 
But I was at the same time conscious of a slight insanity in my mood , and seemed to foresee my recovery . 
Every little pine needle expanded and swelled with sympathy and befriended me . 
Mourning untimely consumes the sad Few are their days in the land of the living , Beautiful daughter of Toscar . 
Men frequently say to me , I should think you would feel lonesome down there , and want to be nearer to folks , rainy and snowy days and nights especially . 
I am tempted to reply to such This whole earth which we inhabit is but a point in space . 
This will vary with different natures , but this is the place where a wise man will dig his cellar . 
I answered that I was very sure I liked it passably well I was not joking . 
Any prospect of awakening or coming to life to a dead man makes indifferent all times and places . 
The place where that may occur is always the same , and indescribably pleasant to all our senses . 
For the most part we allow only outlying and transient circumstances to make our occasions . 
They are , in fact , the cause of our distraction . 
Nearest to all things is that power which fashions their being . 
Next to us the grandest laws are continually being executed . 
Next to us is not the workman whom we have hired , with whom we love so well to talk , but the workman whose work we are . 
They cause that in all the universe men purify and sanctify their hearts , and clothe themselves in their holiday garments to offer sacrifices and oblations to their ancestors . 
It is an ocean of subtile intelligences . 
They are everywhere , above us , on our left , on our right they environ us on all sides . 
We are the subjects of an experiment which is not a little interesting to me . 
With thinking we may be beside ourselves in a sane sense . 
By a conscious effort of the mind we can stand aloof from actions and their consequences and all things , good and bad , go by us like a torrent . 
We are not wholly involved in Nature . 
I may be either the driftwood in the stream , or Indra in the sky looking down on it . 
I may be affected by a theatrical exhibition on the other hand , I may not be affected by an actual event which appears to concern me much more . 
When the play , it may be the tragedy , of life is over , the spectator goes his way . 
It was a kind of fiction , a work of the imagination only , so far as he was concerned . 
This doubleness may easily make us poor neighbors and friends sometimes . 
I find it wholesome to be alone the greater part of the time . 
To be in company , even with the best , is soon wearisome and dissipating . 
I love to be alone . 
I never found the companion that was so companionable as solitude . 
We are for the most part more lonely when we go abroad among men than when we stay in our chambers . 
A man thinking or working is always alone , let him be where he will . 
Solitude is not measured by the miles of space that intervene between a man and his fellows . 
The really diligent student in one of the crowded hives of Cambridge College is as solitary as a dervish in the desert . 
Society is commonly too cheap . 
We meet at very short intervals , not having had time to acquire any new value for each other . 
We meet at meals three times a day , and give each other a new taste of that old musty cheese that we are . 
We have had to agree on a certain set of rules , called etiquette and politeness , to make this frequent meeting tolerable and that we need not come to open war . 
Certainly less frequency would suffice for all important and hearty communications . 
Consider the girls in a factory never alone , hardly in their dreams . 
It would be better if there were but one inhabitant to a square mile , as where I live . 
The value of a man is not in his skin , that we should touch him . 
I have a great deal of company in my house especially in the morning , when nobody calls . 
Let me suggest a few comparisons , that some one may convey an idea of my situation . 
I am no more lonely than the loon in the pond that laughs so loud , or than Walden Pond itself . 
What company has that lonely lake , I pray ? And yet it has not the blue devils , but the blue angels in it , in the azure tint of its waters . 
The sun is alone , except in thick weather , when there sometimes appear to be two , but one is a mock sun . 
God is alone but the devil , he is far from being alone he sees a great deal of company he is legion . 
I am no more lonely than a single mullein or dandelion in a pasture , or a bean leaf , or sorrel , or a horse fly , or a bumblebee . 
A ruddy and lusty old dame , who delights in all weathers and seasons , and is likely to outlive all her children yet . 
But remember , it will not keep quite till noonday even in the coolest cellar , but drive out the stopples long ere that and follow westward the steps of Aurora . 
She was probably the only thoroughly sound conditioned , healthy , and robust young lady that ever walked the globe , and wherever she came it was spring . 
I am naturally no hermit , but might possibly sit out the sturdiest frequenter of the bar room , if my business called me thither . 
I had three chairs in my house one for solitude , two for friendship , three for society . 
When visitors came in larger and unexpected numbers there was but the third chair for them all , but they generally economized the room by standing up . 
It is surprising how many great men and women a small house will contain . 
They are so vast and magnificent that the latter seem to be only vermin which infest them . 
One inconvenience I sometimes experienced in so small a house , the difficulty of getting to a sufficient distance from my guest when we began to utter the big thoughts in big words . 
You want room for your thoughts to get into sailing trim and run a course or two before they make their port . 
Also , our sentences wanted room to unfold and form their columns in the interval . 
Individuals , like nations , must have suitable broad and natural boundaries , even a considerable neutral ground , between them . 
I have found it a singular luxury to talk across the pond to a companion on the opposite side . 
Referred to this standard , speech is for the convenience of those who are hard of hearing but there are many fine things which we cannot say if we have to shout . 
My best room , however , my withdrawing room , always ready for company , on whose carpet the sun rarely fell , was the pine wood behind my house . 
Thither in summer days , when distinguished guests came , I took them , and a priceless domestic swept the floor and dusted the furniture and kept the things in order . 
The waste and decay of physical life , which so often needs repair , seemed miraculously retarded in such a case , and the vital vigor stood its ground . 
So easy is it , though many housekeepers doubt it , to establish new and better customs in the place of the old . 
You need not rest your reputation on the dinners you give . 
I think I shall never revisit those scenes . 
Two more of his chief men , for want of room , pressed by and upon us so that we were worse weary of our lodging than of our journey . 
At one o'clock the next day Massasoit brought two fishes that he had shot , about thrice as big as a bream . 
These being boiled , there were at least forty looked for a share in them the most eat of them . 
This meal only we had in two nights and a day and had not one of us bought a partridge , we had taken our journey fasting . 
and that they might get home while they had strength to travel , they departed . 
Another time when Winslow visited them , it being a season of plenty with them , there was no deficiency in this respect . 
As for men , they will hardly fail one anywhere . 
I had more visitors while I lived in the woods than at any other period in my life I mean that I had some . 
I met several there under more favorable circumstances than I could anywhere else . 
But fewer came to see me on trivial business . 
In this respect , my company was winnowed by my mere distance from town . 
Beside , there were wafted to me evidences of unexplored and uncultivated continents on the other side . 
He says , That's good . 
He has a great bundle of white oak bark under his arm for a sick man , gathered this Sunday morning . 
I suppose there's no harm in going after such a thing to day , says he . 
To him Homer was a great writer , though what his writing was about he did not know . 
A more simple and natural man it would be hard to find . 
Vice and disease , which cast such a sombre moral hue over the world , seemed to have hardly any existance for him . 
He wore a flat gray cloth cap , a dingy wool colored greatcoat , and cowhide boots . 
He came along early , crossing my bean field , though without anxiety or haste to get to his work , such as Yankees exhibit . 
He wasn't a going to hurt himself . 
He didn't care if he only earned his board . 
He was a skilful chopper , and indulged in some flourishes and ornaments in his art . 
He interested me because he was so quiet and solitary and so happy withal a well of good humor and contentment which overflowed at his eyes . 
His mirth was without alloy . 
Such an exuberance of animal spirits had he that he sometimes tumbled down and rolled on the ground with laughter at anything which made him think and tickled him . 
Looking round upon the trees he would exclaim By George ! I can enjoy myself well enough here chopping I want no better sport . 
Sometimes , when at leisure , he amused himself all day in the woods with a pocket pistol , firing salutes to himself at regular intervals as he walked . 
In him the animal man chiefly was developed . 
In physical endurance and contentment he was cousin to the pine and the rock . 
But the intellectual and what is called spiritual man in him were slumbering as in an infant . 
He was so genuine and unsophisticated that no introduction would serve to introduce him , more than if you introduced a woodchuck to your neighbor . 
He had got to find him out as you did . 
He would not play any part . 
Men paid him wages for work , and so helped to feed and clothe him but he never exchanged opinions with them . 
He was so simply and naturally humble if he can be called humble who never aspires that humility was no distinct quality in him , nor could he conceive of it . 
Wiser men were demigods to him . 
He never heard the sound of praise . 
He particularly reverenced the writer and the preacher . 
I sometimes found the name of his native parish handsomely written in the snow by the highway , with the proper French accent , and knew that he had passed . 
I asked him if he ever wished to write his thoughts . 
It would have suggested many things to a philosopher to have dealings with him . 
A townsman told me that when he met him sauntering through the village in his small close fitting cap , and whistling to himself , he reminded him of a prince in disguise . 
His only books were an almanac and an arithmetic , in which last he was considerably expert . 
The former was a sort of cyclopaedia to him , which he supposed to contain an abstract of human knowledge , as indeed it does to a considerable extent . 
I loved to sound him on the various reforms of the day , and he never failed to look at them in the most simple and practical light . 
He had never heard of such things before . 
Could he do without factories ? I asked . 
He had worn the home made Vermont gray , he said , and that was good . 
Good Lord said he , a man that has to work as I do , if he does not forget the ideas he has had , he will do well . 
May be the man you hoe with is inclined to race then , by gorry , your mind must be there you think of weeds . 
He would sometimes ask me first on such occasions , if I had made any improvement . 
One winter day I asked him if he was always satisfied with himself , wishing to suggest a substitute within him for the priest without , and some higher motive for living . 
Satisfied ! said he some men are satisfied with one thing , and some with another . 
If I suggested any improvement in his mode of life , he merely answered , without expressing any regret , that it was too late . 
Yet he thoroughly believed in honesty and the like virtues . 
Though he hesitated , and perhaps failed to express himself distinctly , he always had a presentable thought behind . 
Yet his thinking was so primitive and immersed in his animal life , that , though more promising than a merely learned man's , it rarely ripened to anything which can be reported . 
Many a traveller came out of his way to see me and the inside of my house , and , as an excuse for calling , asked for a glass of water . 
I told them that I drank at the pond , and pointed thither , offering to lend them a dipper . 
With respect to wit , I learned that there was not much difference between the half and the whole . 
He told me , with the utmost simplicity and truth , quite superior , or rather inferior , to anything that is called humility , that he was deficient in intellect . 
The Lord had made him so , yet he supposed the Lord cared as much for him as for another . 
I have always been so , said he , from my childhood I never had much mind I was not like other children I am weak in the head . 
It was the Lord's will , I suppose . 
And there he was to prove the truth of his words . 
He was a metaphysical puzzle to me . 
I have rarely met a fellowman on such promising ground it was so simple and sincere and so true all that he said . 
And , true enough , in proportion as he appeared to humble himself was he exalted . 
I did not know at first but it was the result of a wise policy . 
It seemed that from such a basis of truth and frankness as the poor weak headed pauper had laid , our intercourse might go forward to something better than the intercourse of sages . 
I require of a visitor that he be not actually starving , though he may have the very best appetite in the world , however he got it . 
Objects of charity are not guests . 
Men who did not know when their visit had terminated , though I went about my business again , answering them from greater and greater remoteness . 
Men of almost every degree of wit called on me in the migrating season . 
One man proposed a book in which visitors should write their names , as at the White Mountains but , alas ! I have too good a memory to make that necessary . 
I could not but notice some of the peculiarities of my visitors . 
Girls and boys and young women generally seemed glad to be in the woods . 
They looked in the pond and at the flowers , and improved their time . 
Ay ! there was the rub . 
B. might be on hand at a moment's warning . 
To them the village was literally a community , a league for mutual defence , and you would suppose that they would not go a huckleberrying without a medicine chest . 
A man sits as many risks as he runs . 
I did not fear the hen harriers , for I kept no chickens but I feared the men harriers rather . 
I had more cheering visitors than the last . 
What was the meaning of this so steady and self respecting , this small Herculean labor , I knew not . 
I came to love my rows , my beans , though so many more than I wanted . 
They attached me to the earth , and so I got strength like Antaeus . 
But why should I raise them ? Only Heaven knows . 
It is a fine broad leaf to look on . 
My auxiliaries are the dews and rains which water this dry soil , and what fertility is in the soil itself , which for the most part is lean and effete . 
My enemies are worms , cool days , and most of all woodchucks . 
The last have nibbled for me a quarter of an acre clean . 
It is one of the oldest scenes stamped on my memory . 
And now to night my flute has waked the echoes over that very water . 
Early in the morning I worked barefooted , dabbling like a plastic artist in the dewy and crumbling sand , but later in the day the sun blistered my feet . 
But labor of the hands , even when pursued to the verge of drudgery , is perhaps never the worst form of idleness . 
It has a constant and imperishable moral , and to the scholar it yields a classic result . 
But soon my homestead was out of their sight and thought . 
Corn , my boy , for fodder corn for fodder . 
Fellow travellers as they rattled by compared it aloud with the fields which they had passed , so that I came to know how I stood in the agricultural world . 
This was one field not in Mr. Coleman's report . 
They were beans cheerfully returning to their wild and primitive state that I cultivated , and my hoe played the Rans des Vaches for them . 
While you are planting the seed , he cries Drop it , drop it cover it up , cover it up pull it up , pull it up , pull it up . 
But this was not corn , and so it was safe from such enemies as he . 
It was a cheap sort of top dressing in which I had entire faith . 
When my hoe tinkled against the stones , that music echoed to the woods and the sky , and was an accompaniment to my labor which yielded an instant and immeasurable crop . 
The hawk is aerial brother of the wave which he sails over and surveys , those his perfect air inflated wings answering to the elemental unfledged pinions of the sea . 
When I paused to lean on my hoe , these sounds and sights I heard and saw anywhere in the row , a part of the inexhaustible entertainment which the country offers . 
On gala days the town fires its great guns , which echo like popguns to these woods , and some waifs of martial music occasionally penetrate thus far . 
When there were several bands of musicians , it sounded as if all the village was a vast bellows and all the buildings expanded and collapsed alternately with a din . 
This was one of the great days though the sky had from my clearing only the same everlastingly great look that it wears daily , and I saw no difference in it . 
I was determined to know beans . 
When they were growing , I used to hoe from five o'clock in the morning till noon , and commonly spent the rest of the day about other affairs . 
A long war , not with cranes , but with weeds , those Trojans who had sun and rain and dews on their side . 
Daily the beans saw me come to their rescue armed with a hoe , and thin the ranks of their enemies , filling up the trenches with weedy dead . 
Many a lusty crest waving Hector , that towered a whole foot above his crowding comrades , fell before my weapon and rolled in the dust . 
It was on the whole a rare amusement , which , continued too long , might have become a dissipation . 
I harvested twelve bushels of beans . 
But to be more particular , for it is complained that Mr. Coleman has reported chiefly the expensive experiments of gentlemen farmers , my outgoes were , For a hoe . 
Plowing , harrowing , and furrowing . 
White line for crow fence . 
Horse cultivator and boy three hours . 
Horse and cart to get crop . 
, from Nine bushels and twelve quarts of beans sold . 
Leaving a pecuniary profit , as I have elsewhere said , of . 
First look out for worms , and supply vacancies by planting anew . 
But above all harvest as early as possible , if you would escape frosts and have a fair and salable crop you may save much loss by this means . 
Commonly men will only be brave as their fathers were brave , or timid . 
Here comes such a subtile and ineffable quality , for instance , as truth or justice , though the slightest amount or new variety of it , along the road . 
Our ambassadors should be instructed to send home such seeds as these , and Congress help to distribute them over all the land . 
We should never stand upon ceremony with sincerity . 
We should never cheat and insult and banish one another by our meanness , if there were present the kernel of worth and friendliness . 
We should not meet thus in haste . 
Most men I do not meet at all , for they seem not to have time they are busy about their beans . 
It is the premium and the feast which tempt him . 
He sacrifices not to Ceres and the Terrestrial Jove , but to the infernal Plutus rather . 
He knows Nature but as a robber . 
We are wont to forget that the sun looks on our cultivated fields and on the prairies and forests without distinction . 
They all reflect and absorb his rays alike , and the former make but a small part of the glorious picture which he beholds in his daily course . 
In his view the earth is all equally cultivated like a garden . 
Therefore we should receive the benefit of his light and heat with a corresponding trust and magnanimity . 
These beans have results which are not harvested by me . 
is not all that it bears . 
I went there frequently to observe their habits . 
They , being commonly out of doors , heard whatever was in the wind . 
These are the coarsest mills , in which all gossip is first rudely digested or cracked up before it is emptied into finer and more delicate hoppers within doors . 
Besides , there was a still more terrible standing invitation to call at every one of these houses , and company expected about these times . 
Sometimes I bolted suddenly , and nobody could tell my whereabouts , for I did not stand much about gracefulness , and never hesitated at a gap in a fence . 
I had many a genial thought by the cabin fire as I sailed . 
I was never cast away nor distressed in any weather , though I encountered some severe storms . 
It is darker in the woods , even in common nights , than most suppose . 
One very dark night I directed thus on their way two young men who had been fishing in the pond . 
They lived about a mile off through the woods , and were quite used to the route . 
I have heard of many going astray even in the village streets , when the darkness was so thick that you could cut it with a knife , as the saying is . 
It is a surprising and memorable , as well as valuable experience , to be lost in the woods any time . 
Often in a snow storm , even by day , one will come out upon a well known road and yet find it impossible to tell which way leads to the village . 
By night , of course , the perplexity is infinitely greater . 
Every man has to learn the points of compass again as often as be awakes , whether from sleep or any abstraction . 
I had gone down to the woods for other purposes . 
However , I was released the next day , obtained my mended shoe , and returned to the woods in season to get my dinner of huckleberries on Fair Haven Hill . 
I was never molested by any person but those who represented the State . 
I had no lock nor bolt but for the desk which held my papers , not even a nail to put over my latch or windows . 
I never fastened my door night or day , though I was to be absent several days not even when the next fall I spent a fortnight in the woods of Maine . 
And yet my house was more respected than if it had been surrounded by a file of soldiers . 
I am convinced , that if all men were to live as simply as I then did , thieving and robbery would be unknown . 
These take place only in communities where some have got more than is sufficient while others have not enough . 
The Pope's Homers would soon get properly distributed . 
Nec bella fuerunt , Faginus astabat dum scyphus ante dapes . 
Nor wars did men molest , When only beechen bowls were in request . 
You who govern public affairs , what need have you to employ punishments ? Love virtue , and the people will be virtuous . 
The virtues of a superior man are like the wind the virtues of a common man are like the grass I the grass , when the wind passes over it , bends . 
The fruits do not yield their true flavor to the purchaser of them , nor to him who raises them for the market . 
There is but one way to obtain it , yet few take that way . 
If you would know the flavor of huckleberries , ask the cowboy or the partridge . 
It is a vulgar error to suppose that you have tasted huckleberries who never plucked them . 
A huckleberry never reaches Boston they have not been known there since they grew on her three hills . 
The ambrosial and essential part of the fruit is lost with the bloom which is rubbed off in the market cart , and they become mere provender . 
As long as Eternal Justice reigns , not one innocent huckleberry can be transported thither from the country's hills . 
Our intercourse was thus altogether one of unbroken harmony , far more pleasing to remember than if it had been carried on by speech . 
Through this , whistling a tune , we took our way to the haunts of men again . 
But now I had made my home by the shore . 
At length you slowly raise , pulling hand over hand , some horned pout squeaking and squirming to the upper air . 
It seemed as if I might next cast my line upward into the air , as well as downward into this element , which was scarcely more dense . 
Thus I caught two fishes as it were with one hook . 
All our Concord waters have two colors at least one when viewed at a distance , and another , more proper , close at hand . 
The first depends more on the light , and follows the sky . 
In clear weather , in summer , they appear blue at a little distance , especially if agitated , and at a great distance all appear alike . 
In stormy weather they are sometimes of a dark slate color . 
The sea , however , is said to be blue one day and green another without any perceptible change in the atmosphere . 
I have seen our river , when , the landscape being covered with snow , both water and ice were almost as green as grass . 
Some consider blue to be the color of pure water , whether liquid or solid . 
But , looking directly down into our waters from a boat , they are seen to be of very different colors . 
Walden is blue at one time and green at another , even from the same point of view . 
Lying between the earth and the heavens , it partakes of the color of both . 
In some lights , viewed even from a hilltop , it is of a vivid green next the shore . 
Such is the color of its iris . 
It is a vitreous greenish blue , as I remember it , like those patches of the winter sky seen through cloud vistas in the west before sundown . 
Yet a single glass of its water held up to the light is as colorless as an equal quantity of air . 
How large a body of Walden water would be required to reflect a green tint I have never proved . 
The water is so transparent that the bottom can easily be discerned at the depth of twenty five or thirty feet . 
Some think it is bottomless . 
Successive nations perchance have drank at , admired , and fathomed it , and passed away , and still its water is green and pellucid as ever . 
Yet perchance the first who came to this well have left some trace of their footsteps . 
The snow reprints it , as it were , in clear white type alto relievo . 
The ornamented grounds of villas which will one day be built here may still preserve some trace of this . 
The pond rises and falls , but whether regularly or not , and within what period , nobody knows , though , as usual , many pretend to know . 
It is commonly higher in the winter and lower in the summer , though not corresponding to the general wet and dryness . 
I can remember when it was a foot or two lower , and also when it was at least five feet higher , than when I lived by it . 
This same summer the pond has begun to fall again . 
It is remarkable that this fluctuation , whether periodical or not , appears thus to require many years for its accomplishment . 
The same is true , as far as my observation goes , of White Pond . 
By this fluctuation the pond asserts its title to a shore , and thus the shore is shorn , and the trees cannot hold it by right of possession . 
These are the lips of the lake , on which no beard grows . 
It licks its chaps from time to time . 
Some have been puzzled to tell how the shore became so regularly paved . 
It has been conjectured that when the hill shook these stones rolled down its side and became the present shore . 
If the name was not derived from that of some English locality Saffron Walden , for instance one might suppose that it was called originally Walled in Pond . 
The pond was my well ready dug . 
In the winter , all water which is exposed to the air is colder than springs and wells which are protected from it . 
Moreover , in summer , Walden never becomes so warm as most water which is exposed to the sun , on account of its depth . 
It was as good when a week old as the day it was dipped , and had no taste of the pump . 
Nevertheless , this pond is not very fertile in fish . 
Its pickerel , though not abundant , are its chief boast . 
The specific name reticulatus would not apply to this it should be guttatus rather . 
These are all very firm fish , and weigh more than their size promises . 
Probably many ichthyologists would make new varieties of some of them . 
Sometimes , when I pushed off my boat in the morning , I disturbed a great mud turtle which had secreted himself under the boat in the night . 
teeter along its stony shores all summer . 
I have sometimes disturbed a fish hawk sitting on a white pine over the water but I doubt if it is ever profaned by the wind of a gull , like Fair Haven . 
At most , it tolerates one annual loon . 
These are all the animals of consequence which frequent it now . 
They are similar to those found in rivers but as there are no suckers nor lampreys here , I know not by what fish they could be made . 
Perhaps they are the nests of the chivin . 
These lend a pleasing mystery to the bottom . 
The shore is irregular enough not to be monotonous . 
There is no rawness nor imperfection in its edge there , as where the axe has cleared a part , or a cultivated field abuts on it . 
The trees have ample room to expand on the water side , and each sends forth its most vigorous branch in that direction . 
There Nature has woven a natural selvage , and the eye rises by just gradations from the low shrubs of the shore to the highest trees . 
There are few traces of man's hand to be seen . 
The water laves the shore as it did a thousand years ago . 
A lake is the landscape's most beautiful and expressive feature . 
It is earth's eye looking into which the beholder measures the depth of his own nature . 
The fluviatile trees next the shore are the slender eyelashes which fringe it , and the wooded hills and cliffs around are its overhanging brows . 
You would think that you could walk dry under it to the opposite hills , and that the swallows which skim over might perch on it . 
Indeed , they sometimes dive below this line , as it were by mistake , and are undeceived . 
It is like molten glass cooled but not congealed , and the few motes in it are pure and beautiful like the imperfections in glass . 
You may often detect a yet smoother and darker water , separated from the rest as if by an invisible cobweb , boom of the water nymphs , resting on it . 
The thrills of joy and thrills of pain are undistinguishable . 
How peaceful the phenomena of the lake ! Again the works of man shine as in the spring . 
Ay , every leaf and twig and stone and cobweb sparkles now at mid afternoon as when covered with dew in a spring morning . 
Nothing so fair , so pure , and at the same time so large , as a lake , perchance , lies on the surface of the earth . 
Nations come and go without defiling it . 
A field of water betrays the spirit that is in the air . 
It is continually receiving new life and motion from above . 
It is intermediate in its nature between land and sky . 
On land only the grass and trees wave , but the water itself is rippled by the wind . 
I see where the breeze dashes across it by the streaks or flakes of light . 
It is remarkable that we can look down on its surface . 
We shall , perhaps , look down thus on the surface of air at length , and mark where a still subtler spirit sweeps over it . 
He came here a fishing , and used an old log canoe which he found on the shore . 
It was made of two white pine logs dug out and pinned together , and was cut off square at the ends . 
It was very clumsy , but lasted a great many years before it became water logged and perhaps sank to the bottom . 
He did not know whose it was it belonged to the pond . 
He used to make a cable for his anchor of strips of hickory bark tied together . 
Sometimes it would come floating up to the shore but when you went toward it , it would go back into deep water and disappear . 
My Muse may be excused if she is silent henceforth . 
Many men have been likened to it , but few deserve that honor . 
It has not acquired one permanent wrinkle after all its ripples . 
It is perennially young , and I may stand and see a swallow dip apparently to pick an insect from its surface as of yore . 
The engineer does not forget at night , or his nature does not , that he has beheld this vision of serenity and purity once at least during the day . 
Though seen but once , it helps to wash out State Street and the engine's soot . 
One proposes that it be called God's Drop . 
It is much larger , being said to contain one hundred and ninety seven acres , and is more fertile in fish but it is comparatively shallow , and not remarkably pure . 
A walk through the woods thither was often my recreation . 
It was worth the while , if only to feel the wind blow on your cheek freely , and see the waves run , and remember the life of mariners . 
It was as impressive a wreck as one could imagine on the seashore , and had as good a moral . 
It is by this time mere vegetable mould and undistinguishable pond shore , through which rushes and flags have pushed up . 
These wash back and forth in shallow water on a sandy bottom , and are sometimes cast on the shore . 
They are either solid grass , or have a little sand in the middle . 
Moreover , the waves , I suspect , do not so much construct as wear down a material which has already acquired consistency . 
They preserve their form when dry for an indefinite period . 
Flint's Pond ! Such is the poverty of our nomenclature . 
It did not turn his mill , and it was no privilege to him to behold it . 
Give me the poverty that enjoys true wealth . 
Farmers are respectable and interesting to me in proportion as they are poor poor farmers . 
No , no if the fairest features of the landscape are to be named after men , let them be the noblest and worthiest men alone . 
Let our lakes receive as true names at least as the Icarian Sea , where still the shore a brave attempt resounds . 
This is my lake country . 
These , with Concord River , are my water privileges and night and day , year in year out , they grind such grist as I carry to them . 
In these as in other respects , however , it is a lesser twin of Walden . 
They are so much alike that you would say they must be connected under ground . 
It has the same stony shore , and its waters are of the same hue . 
Many years since I used to go there to collect the sand by cartloads , to make sandpaper with , and I have continued to visit it ever since . 
One who frequents it proposes to call it Virid Lake . 
Perhaps it might be called Yellow Pine Lake , from the following circumstance . 
It was even supposed by some that the pond had sunk , and this was one of the primitive forest that formerly stood there . 
As near as he could remember , it stood twelve or fifteen rods from the shore , where the water was thirty or forty feet deep . 
He had some of it in his shed then . 
There were marks of an axe and of woodpeckers on the butt . 
His father , eighty years old , could not remember when it was not there . 
Several pretty large logs may still be seen lying on the bottom , where , owing to the undulation of the surface , they look like huge water snakes in motion . 
This pond has rarely been profaned by a boat , for there is little in it to tempt a fisherman . 
White Pond and Walden are great crystals on the surface of the earth , Lakes of Light . 
They are too pure to have a market value they contain no muck . 
How much more beautiful than our lives , how much more transparent than our characters , are they ! We never learned meanness of them . 
How much fairer than the pool before the farmers door , in which his ducks swim ! Hither the clean wild ducks come . 
Nature has no human inhabitant who appreciates her . 
Talk of heaven ! ye disgrace earth . 
These were the shrines I visited both summer and winter . 
It was a lake of rainbow light , in which , for a short while , I lived like a dolphin . 
If it had lasted longer it might have tinged my employments and life . 
As I walked on the railroad causeway , I used to wonder at the halo of light around my shadow , and would fain fancy myself one of the elect . 
One who visited me declared that the shadows of some Irishmen before him had no halo about them , that it was only natives that were so distinguished . 
Benvenuto Cellini tells us in his memoirs , that , after a certain terrible dream or vision which he had during his confinement in the castle of St . 
This was probably the same phenomenon to which I have referred , which is especially observed in the morning , but also at other times , and even by moonlight . 
Though a constant one , it is not commonly noticed , and , in the case of an excitable imagination like Cellini's , it would be basis enough for superstition . 
Beside , he tells us that he showed it to very few . 
I thought of living there before I went to Walden . 
I hooked the apples , leaped the brook , and scared the musquash and the trout . 
The gods must be proud , thought I , with such forked flashes to rout a poor unarmed fisherman . 
There we sat together under that part of the roof which leaked the least , while it showered and thundered without . 
I had sat there many times of old before the ship was built that floated his family to America . 
The chickens , which had also taken shelter here from the rain , stalked about the room like members of the family , too humanized , methought , to roast well . 
They stood and looked in my eye or pecked at my shoe significantly . 
For I purposely talked to him as if he were a philosopher , or desired to be one . 
I should be glad if all the meadows on the earth were left in a wild state , if that were the consequence of men's beginning to redeem themselves . 
A man will not need to study history to find out what is best for his own culture . 
But alas ! the culture of an Irishman is an enterprise to be undertaken with a sort of moral bog hoe . 
If he and his family would live simply , they might all go a huckleberrying in the summer for their amusement . 
But they fight at an overwhelming disadvantage living , John Field , alas ! without arithmetic , and failing so . 
Do you ever fish ? I asked . 
Oh yes , I catch a mess now and then when I am lying by good perch I catch . 
What's your bait ? I catch shiners with fishworms , and bait the perch with them . 
You'd better go now , John , said his wife , with glistening and hopeful face but John demurred . 
The shower was now over , and a rainbow above the eastern woods promised a fair evening so I took my departure . 
I am not squeamish in such cases when manners are concerned . 
Remember thy Creator in the days of thy youth . 
Rise free from care before the dawn , and seek adventures . 
Let the noon find thee by other lakes , and the night overtake thee everywhere at home . 
There are no larger fields than these , no worthier games than may here be played . 
Grow wild according to thy nature , like these sedges and brakes , which will never become English bay . 
Let the thunder rumble what if it threaten ruin to farmers' crops ? That is not its errand to thee . 
Take shelter under the cloud , while they flee to carts and sheds . 
Let not to get a living be thy trade , but thy sport . 
Enjoy the land , but own it not . 
Through want of enterprise and faith men are where they are , buying and selling , and spending their lives like serfs . 
O Baker Farm ! Landscape where the richest element Is a little sunshine innocent . 
No one runs to revel On thy rail fenced lea . 
Debate with no man hast thou , With questions art never perplexed , As tame at the first sight as now , In thy plain russet gabardine dressed . 
We should come home from far , from adventures , and perils , and discoveries every day , with new experience and character . 
Before I had reached the pond some fresh impulse had brought out John Field , with altered mind , letting go bogging ere this sunset . 
It is good bait sometimes , I allow . 
The wildest scenes had become unaccountably familiar . 
I love the wild not less than the good . 
The wildness and adventure that are in fishing still recommended it to me . 
I like sometimes to take rank hold on life and spend my day more as the animals do . 
Perhaps I have owed to this employment and to hunting , when quite young , my closest acquaintance with Nature . 
They early introduce us to and detain us in scenery with which otherwise , at that age , we should have little acquaintance . 
She is not afraid to exhibit herself to them . 
The traveller on the prairie is naturally a hunter , on the head waters of the Missouri and Columbia a trapper , and at the Falls of St . 
He who is only a traveller learns things at second hand and by the halves , and is poor authority . 
We are most interested when science reports what those men already know practically or instinctively , for that alone is a true humanity , or account of human experience . 
No wonder , then , that he did not oftener stay to play on the common . 
Moreover , when at the pond , I wished sometimes to add fish to my fare for variety . 
I have actually fished from the same kind of necessity that the first fishers did . 
Whatever humanity I might conjure up against it was all factitious , and concerned my philosophy more than my feelings . 
I speak of fishing only now , for I had long felt differently about fowling , and sold my gun before I went to the woods . 
Not that I am less humane than others , but I did not perceive that my feelings were much affected . 
I did not pity the fishes nor the worms . 
As for fowling , during the last years that I carried a gun my excuse was that I was studying ornithology , and sought only new or rare birds . 
But I confess that I am now inclined to think that there is a finer way of studying ornithology than this . 
It requires so much closer attention to the habits of the birds , that , if for that reason only , I have been willing to omit the gun . 
Thus far I am of the opinion of Chaucer's nun , who yave not of the text a pulled hen That saith that hunters ben not holy men . 
There is a period in the history of the individual , as of the race , when the hunters are the best men , as the Algonquins called them . 
We cannot but pity the boy who has never fired a gun he is no more humane , while his education has been sadly neglected . 
This was my answer with respect to those youths who were bent on this pursuit , trusting that they would soon outgrow it . 
No humane being , past the thoughtless age of boyhood , will wantonly murder any creature which holds its life by the same tenure that he does . 
The hare in its extremity cries like a child . 
I warn you , mothers , that my sympathies do not always make the usual philanthropic distinctions . 
Such is oftenest the young man's introduction to the forest , and the most original part of himself . 
The mass of men are still and always young in this respect . 
In some countries a hunting parson is no uncommon sight . 
Such a one might make a good shepherd's dog , but is far from being the Good Shepherd . 
Yet even they expect to go to heaven at last . 
Thus , even in civilized communities , the embryo man passes through the hunter stage of development . 
I have found repeatedly , of late years , that I cannot fish without falling a little in self respect . 
I have tried it again and again . 
I think that I do not mistake . 
It is a faint intimation , yet so are the first streaks of morning . 
But I see that if I were to live in a wilderness I should again be tempted to become a fisher and hunter in earnest . 
Having been my own butcher and scullion and cook , as well as the gentleman for whom the dishes were served up , I can speak from an unusually complete experience . 
It was insignificant and unnecessary , and cost more than it came to . 
A little bread or a few potatoes would have done as well , with less trouble and filth . 
Like many of my contemporaries , I had rarely for many years used animal food , or tea , or coffee , etc . 
not so much because of any ill effects which I had traced to them , as because they were not agreeable to my imagination . 
The repugnance to animal food is not the effect of experience , but is an instinct . 
It appeared more beautiful to live low and fare hard in many respects and though I never did so , I went far enough to please my imagination . 
The voracious caterpillar when transformed into a butterfly . 
and the gluttonous maggot when become a fly content themselves with a drop or two of honey or some other sweet liquid . 
The abdomen under the wings of the butterfly still represents the larva . 
This is the tidbit which tempts his insectivorous fate . 
The gross feeder is a man in the larva state and there are whole nations in that condition , nations without fancy or imagination , whose vast abdomens betray them . 
Yet perhaps this may be done . 
The fruits eaten temperately need not make us ashamed of our appetites , nor interrupt the worthiest pursuits . 
But put an extra condiment into your dish , and it will poison you . 
It is not worth the while to live by rich cookery . 
Most men would feel shame if caught preparing with their own hands precisely such a dinner , whether of animal or vegetable food , as is every day prepared for them by others . 
Yet till this is otherwise we are not civilized , and , if gentlemen and ladies , are not true men and women . 
This certainly suggests what change is to be made . 
It may be vain to ask why the imagination will not be reconciled to flesh and fat . 
I am satisfied that it is not . 
The faintest assured objection which one healthy man feels will at length prevail over the arguments and customs of mankind . 
No man ever followed his genius till it misled him . 
Though the result were bodily weakness , yet perhaps no one can say that the consequences were to be regretted , for these were a life in conformity to higher principles . 
All nature is your congratulation , and you have cause momentarily to bless yourself . 
The greatest gains and values are farthest from being appreciated . 
We easily come to doubt if they exist . 
They are the highest reality . 
Perhaps the facts most astounding and most real are never communicated by man to man . 
The true harvest of my daily life is somewhat as intangible and indescribable as the tints of morning or evening . 
It is a little star dust caught , a segment of the rainbow which I have clutched . 
Yet , for my part , I was never unusually squeamish I could sometimes eat a fried rat with a good relish , if it were necessary . 
I am glad to have drunk water so long , for the same reason that I prefer the natural sky to an opium eater's heaven . 
I would fain keep sober always and there are infinite degrees of drunkenness . 
Such apparently slight causes destroyed Greece and Rome , and will destroy England and America . 
But to tell the truth , I find myself at present somewhat less particular in these respects . 
Perhaps these questions are entertained only in youth , as most believe of poetry . 
My practice is nowhere , my opinion is here . 
He who distinguishes the true savor of his food can never be a glutton he who does not cannot be otherwise . 
A puritan may go to his brown bread crust with as gross an appetite as ever an alderman to his turtle . 
Not that food which entereth into the mouth defileth a man , but the appetite with which it is eaten . 
He goes to the mill pond , she to her preserve pot . 
The wonder is how they , how you and I , can live this slimy , beastly life , eating and drinking . 
Our whole life is startlingly moral . 
There is never an instant's truce between virtue and vice . 
Goodness is the only investment that never fails . 
In the music of the harp which trembles round the world it is the insisting on this which thrills us . 
The harp is the travelling patterer for the Universe's Insurance Company , recommending its laws , and our little goodness is all the assessment that we pay . 
Though the youth at last grows indifferent , the laws of the universe are not indifferent , but are forever on the side of the most sensitive . 
Listen to every zephyr for some reproof , for it is surely there , and he is unfortunate who does not hear it . 
We cannot touch a string or move a stop but the charming moral transfixes us . 
Many an irksome noise , go a long way off , is heard as music , a proud , sweet satire on the meanness of our lives . 
We are conscious of an animal in us , which awakens in proportion as our higher nature slumbers . 
It is reptile and sensual , and perhaps cannot be wholly expelled like the worms which , even in life and health , occupy our bodies . 
Possibly we may withdraw from it , but never change its nature . 
I fear that it may enjoy a certain health of its own that we may be well , yet not pure . 
This creature succeeded by other means than temperance and purity . 
That in which men differ from brute beasts , says Mencius , is a thing very inconsiderable the common herd lose it very soon superior men preserve it carefully . 
A command over our passions , and over the external senses of the body , and good acts , are declared by the Ved to be indispensable in the mind's approximation to God . 
Yet the spirit can for the time pervade and control every member and function of the body , and transmute what in form is the grossest sensuality into purity and devotion . 
The generative energy , which , when we are loose , dissipates and makes us unclean , when we are continent invigorates and inspires us . 
Chastity is the flowering of man and what are called Genius , Heroism , Holiness , and the like , are but various fruits which succeed it . 
Man flows at once to God when the channel of purity is open . 
By turns our purity inspires and our impurity casts us down . 
He is blessed who is assured that the animal is dying out in him day by day , and the divine being established . 
Perhaps there is none but has cause for shame on account of the inferior and brutish nature to which he is allied . 
How happy's he who hath due place assigned To his beasts and disafforested his mind ! . 
All sensuality is one , though it takes many forms all purity is one . 
It is the same whether a man eat , or drink , or cohabit , or sleep sensually . 
They are but one appetite , and we only need to see a person do any one of these things to know how great a sensualist he is . 
The impure can neither stand nor sit with purity . 
When the reptile is attacked at one mouth of his burrow , he shows himself at another . 
If you would be chaste , you must be temperate . 
What is chastity ? How shall a man know if he is chaste ? He shall not know it . 
We have heard of this virtue , but we know not what it is . 
We speak conformably to the rumor which we have heard . 
From exertion come wisdom and purity from sloth ignorance and sensuality . 
In the student sensuality is a sluggish habit of mind . 
An unclean person is universally a slothful one , one who sits by a stove , whom the sun shines on prostrate , who reposes without being fatigued . 
If you would avoid uncleanness , and all the sins , work earnestly , though it be at cleaning a stable . 
Nature is hard to be overcome , but she must be overcome . 
We discourse freely without shame of one form of sensuality , and are silent about another . 
We are so degraded that we cannot speak simply of the necessary functions of human nature . 
In earlier ages , in some countries , every function was reverently spoken of and regulated by law . 
Nothing was too trivial for the Hindoo lawgiver , however offensive it may be to modern taste . 
We are all sculptors and painters , and our material is our own flesh and blood and bones . 
Any nobleness begins at once to refine a man's features , any meanness or sensuality to imbrute them . 
John Farmer sat at his door one September evening , after a hard day's work , his mind still running on his labor more or less . 
Having bathed , he sat down to re create his intellectual man . 
It was a rather cool evening , and some of his neighbors were apprehending a frost . 
He had not attended to the train of his thoughts long when he heard some one playing on a flute , and that sound harmonized with his mood . 
It was no more than the scurf of his skin , which was constantly shuffled off . 
But the notes of the flute came home to his ears out of a different sphere from that he worked in , and suggested work for certain faculties which slumbered in him . 
They gently did away with the street , and the village , and the state in which he lived . 
I wonder what the world is doing now . 
I have not heard so much as a locust over the sweet fern these three hours . 
The pigeons are all asleep upon their roosts no flutter from them . 
Was that a farmer's noon horn which sounded from beyond the woods just now ? The hands are coming in to boiled salt beef and cider and Indian bread . 
Why will men worry themselves so ? He that does not eat need not work . 
I wonder how much they have reaped . 
Say , some hollow tree and then for morning calls and dinner parties ! Only a woodpecker tapping . 
Oh , they swarm the sun is too warm there they are born too far into life for me . 
I have water from the spring , and a loaf of brown bread on the shelf . 
Hark ! I hear a rustling of the leaves . 
Eh , Mr. Poet , is it you ? How do you like the world to day ? Poet . 
See those clouds how they hang ! That's the greatest thing I have seen to day . 
There's nothing like it in old paintings , nothing like it in foreign lands unless when we were off the coast of Spain . 
That's a true Mediterranean sky . 
I thought , as I have my living to get , and have not eaten to day , that I might go a fishing . 
That's the true industry for poets . 
It is the only trade I have learned . 
My brown bread will soon be gone . 
I will go with you gladly soon , but I am just concluding a serious meditation . 
I think that I am near the end of it . 
Leave me alone , then , for a while . 
But that we may not be delayed , you shall be digging the bait meanwhile . 
Angleworms are rarely to be met with in these parts , where the soil was never fattened with manure the race is nearly extinct . 
The sport of digging the bait is nearly equal to that of catching the fish , when one's appetite is not too keen and this you may have all to yourself today . 
I would advise you to set in the spade down yonder among the ground nuts , where you see the johnswort waving . 
Let me see where was I ? Methinks I was nearly in this frame of mind the world lay about at this angle . 
I fear my thoughts will not come back to me . 
If it would do any good , I would whistle for them . 
When they make us an offer , is it wise to say , We will think of it ? My thoughts have left no track , and I cannot find the path again . 
What was it that I was thinking of ? It was a very hazy day . 
I will just try these three sentences of Confutsee they may fetch that state about again . 
I know not whether it was the dumps or a budding ecstasy . 
There never is but one opportunity of a kind . 
Those village worms are quite too large a shiner may make a meal off one without finding the skewer . 
Well , then , let's be off . 
Shall we to the Concord ? There's good sport there if the water be not too high . 
have put animals to their best use , for they are all beasts of burden , in a sense , made to carry some portion of our thoughts . 
The mice which haunted my house were not the common ones , which are said to have been introduced into the country , but a wild native kind not found in the village . 
I sent one to a distinguished naturalist , and it interested him much . 
It probably had never seen a man before and it soon became quite familiar , and would run over my shoes and up my clothes . 
It could readily ascend the sides of the room by short impulses , like a squirrel , which it resembled in its motions . 
A phoebe soon built in my shed , and a robin for protection in a pine which grew against the house . 
The parent will sometimes roll and spin round before you in such a dishabille , that you cannot , for a few moments , detect what kind of creature it is . 
You may even tread on them , or have your eyes on them for a minute , without discovering them . 
They are not callow like the young of most birds , but more perfectly developed and precocious even than chickens . 
The remarkably adult yet innocent expression of their open and serene eyes is very memorable . 
All intelligence seems reflected in them . 
They suggest not merely the purity of infancy , but a wisdom clarified by experience . 
Such an eye was not born when the bird was , but is coeval with the sky it reflects . 
The woods do not yield another such a gem . 
The traveller does not often look into such a limpid well . 
It is said that when hatched by a hen they will directly disperse on some alarm , and so are lost , for they never hear the mother's call which gathers them again . 
These were my hens and chickens . 
It is remarkable how many creatures live wild and free though secret in the woods , and still sustain themselves in the neighborhood of towns , suspected by hunters only . 
I formerly saw the raccoon in the woods behind where my house is built , and probably still heard their whinnering at night . 
The approach to this was through a succession of descending grassy hollows , full of young pitch pines , into a larger wood about the swamp . 
There , in a very secluded and shaded spot , under a spreading white pine , there was yet a clean , firm sward to sit on . 
Or I heard the peep of the young when I could not see the parent bird . 
You only need sit still long enough in some attractive spot in the woods that all its inhabitants may exhibit themselves to you by turns . 
I was witness to events of a less peaceful character . 
Having once got hold they never let go , but struggled and wrestled and rolled on the chips incessantly . 
The legions of these Myrmidons covered all the hills and vales in my wood yard , and the ground was already strewn with the dead and dying , both red and black . 
On every side they were engaged in deadly combat , yet without any noise that I could hear , and human soldiers never fought so resolutely . 
They fought with more pertinacity than bulldogs . 
Neither manifested the least disposition to retreat . 
It was evident that their battle cry was Conquer or die . 
Or perchance he was some Achilles , who had nourished his wrath apart , and had now come to avenge or rescue his Patroclus . 
I was myself excited somewhat even as if they had been men . 
The more you think of it , the less the difference . 
For numbers and for carnage it was an Austerlitz or Dresden . 
There was not one hireling there . 
I raised the glass , and he went off over the window sill in that crippled state . 
This event happened previous to the expulsion of the tyrant Christiern the Second from Sweden . 
The battle which I witnessed took place in the Presidency of Polk , five years before the passage of Webster's Fugitive Slave Bill . 
Once I was surprised to see a cat walking along the stony shore of the pond , for they rarely wander so far from home . 
A few years before I lived in the woods there was what was called a winged cat in one of the farm houses in Lincoln nearest the pond , Mr. Gilian Baker's . 
They gave me a pair of her wings , which I keep still . 
There is no appearance of a membrane about them . 
came , as usual , to moult and bathe in the pond , making the woods ring with his wild laughter before I had risen . 
They come rustling through the woods like autumn leaves , at least ten men to one loon . 
Some station themselves on this side of the pond , some on that , for the poor bird cannot be omnipresent if he dive here he must come up there . 
The waves generously rise and dash angrily , taking sides with all water fowl , and our sportsmen must beat a retreat to town and shop and unfinished jobs . 
But they were too often successful . 
When I went to get a pail of water early in the morning I frequently saw this stately bird sailing out of my cove within a few rods . 
But I was more than a match for him on the surface . 
He commonly went off in a rain . 
I pursued with a paddle and he dived , but when he came up I was nearer than before . 
He manoeuvred so cunningly that I could not get within half a dozen rods of him . 
It was surprising how quickly he made up his mind and put his resolve into execution . 
He led me at once to the widest part of the pond , and could not be driven from it . 
While he was thinking one thing in his brain , I was endeavoring to divine his thought in mine . 
It was a pretty game , played on the smooth surface of the pond , a man against a loon . 
Suddenly your adversary's checker disappears beneath the board , and the problem is to place yours nearest to where his will appear again . 
Sometimes he would come up unexpectedly on the opposite side of me , having apparently passed directly under the boat . 
It is said that loons have been caught in the New York lakes eighty feet beneath the surface , with hooks set for trout though Walden is deeper than that . 
Once or twice I saw a ripple where he approached the surface , just put his head out to reconnoitre , and instantly dived again . 
I could commonly hear the splash of the water when he came up , and so also detected him . 
But after an hour he seemed as fresh as ever , dived as willingly , and swam yet farther than at first . 
It was surprising to see how serenely he sailed off with unruffled breast when he came to the surface , doing all the work with his webbed feet beneath . 
This was his looning perhaps the wildest sound that is ever heard here , making the woods ring far and wide . 
I concluded that he laughed in derision of my efforts , confident of his own resources . 
Though the sky was by this time overcast , the pond was so smooth that I could see where he broke the surface when I did not hear him . 
His white breast , the stillness of the air , and the smoothness of the water were all against him . 
House Warming In October I went a graping to the river meadows , and loaded myself with clusters more precious for their beauty and fragrance than for food . 
So butchers rake the tongues of bison out of the prairie grass , regardless of the torn and drooping plant . 
The barberry's brilliant fruit was likewise food for my eyes merely but I collected a small store of wild apples for coddling , which the proprietor and travellers had overlooked . 
When chestnuts were ripe I laid up half a bushel for winter . 
Occasionally I climbed and shook the trees . 
These nuts , as far as they went , were a good substitute for bread . 
Many other substitutes might , perhaps , be found . 
I had often since seen its crumpled red velvety blossom supported by the stems of other plants without knowing it to be the same . 
Cultivation has well nigh exterminated it . 
It has a sweetish taste , much like that of a frost bitten potato , and I found it better boiled than roasted . 
This tuber seemed like a faint promise of Nature to rear her own children and feed them simply here at some future period . 
Each morning the manager of this gallery substituted some new picture , distinguished by more brilliant or harmonious coloring , for the old upon the walls . 
The wasps came by thousands to my lodge in October , as to winter quarters , and settled on my windows within and on the walls overhead , sometimes deterring visitors from entering . 
They never molested me seriously , though they bedded with me and they gradually disappeared , into what crevices I do not know , avoiding winter and unspeakable cold . 
I thus warmed myself by the still glowing embers which the summer , like a departed hunter , had left . 
When I came to build my chimney I studied masonry . 
My bricks , being second hand ones , required to be cleaned with a trowel , so that I learned more than usual of the qualities of bricks and trowels . 
Such sayings themselves grow harder and adhere more firmly with age , and it would take many blows with a trowel to clean an old wiseacre of them . 
However that may be , I was struck by the peculiar toughness of the steel which bore so many violent blows without being worn out . 
I lingered most about the fireplace , as the most vital part of the house . 
I took a poet to board for a fortnight about those times , which caused me to be put to it for room . 
He brought his own knife , though I had two , and we used to scour them by thrusting them into the earth . 
He shared with me the labors of cooking . 
I was pleased to see my work rising so square and solid by degrees , and reflected , that , if it proceeded slowly , it was calculated to endure a long time . 
This was toward the end of summer . 
The north wind had already begun to cool the pond , though it took many weeks of steady blowing to accomplish it , it is so deep . 
When I began to have a fire at evening , before I plastered my house , the chimney carried smoke particularly well , because of the numerous chinks between the boards . 
Yet I passed some cheerful evenings in that cool and airy apartment , surrounded by the rough brown boards full of knots , and rafters with the bark on high overhead . 
My house never pleased my eye so much after it was plastered , though I was obliged to confess that it was more comfortable . 
I now first began to inhabit my house , I may say , when I began to use it for warmth as well as shelter . 
My dwelling was small , and I could hardly entertain an echo in it but it seemed larger for being a single apartment and remote from neighbors . 
There is as much secrecy about the cooking as if he had a design to poison you . 
The dinner even is only the parable of a dinner , commonly . 
As if only the savage dwelt near enough to Nature and Truth to borrow a trope from them . 
Nevertheless , it stood through a great many hasty puddings . 
I did not plaster till it was freezing weather . 
My house had in the meanwhile been shingled down to the ground on every side . 
I remembered the story of a conceited fellow , who , in fine clothes , was wont to lounge about the village once , giving advice to workmen . 
I might have got good limestone within a mile or two and burned it myself , if I had cared to do so . 
The pond had in the meanwhile skimmed over in the shadiest and shallowest coves , some days or even weeks before the general freezing . 
Perhaps these have creased it , for you find some of their cases in the furrows , though they are deep and broad for them to make . 
But the ice itself is the object of most interest , though you must improve the earliest opportunity to study it . 
These bubbles are from an eightieth to an eighth of an inch in diameter , very clear and beautiful , and you see your face reflected in them through the ice . 
There may be thirty or forty of them to a square inch . 
But these within the ice are not so numerous nor obvious as those beneath . 
The beauty of the ice was gone , and it was too late to study the bottom . 
Being curious to know what position my great bubbles occupied with regard to the new ice , I broke out a cake containing a middling sized one , and turned it bottom upward . 
The new ice had formed around and under the bubble , so that it was included between the two ices . 
These are the little air guns which contribute to make the ice crack and whoop . 
The snow had already covered the ground since the th of November , and surrounded me suddenly with the scenery of winter . 
I withdrew yet farther into my shell , and endeavored to keep a bright fire both within my house and within my breast . 
An old forest fence which had seen its best days was a great haul for me . 
I sacrificed it to Vulcan , for it was past serving the god Terminus . 
There was also the driftwood of the pond . 
In the course of the summer I had discovered a raft of pitch pine logs with the bark on , pinned together by the Irish when the railroad was built . 
This I hauled up partly on the shore . 
After soaking two years and then lying high six months it was perfectly sound , though waterlogged past drying . 
, to the frightening of the game and the detriment of the forest . 
, that is , would believe that it is sacred to some god . 
It is remarkable what a value is still put upon wood even in this age and in this new country , a value more permanent and universal than that of gold . 
After all our discoveries and inventions no man will go by a pile of wood . 
It is as precious to us as it was to our Saxon and Norman ancestors . 
If they made their bows of it , we make our gun stocks of it . 
In this town the price of wood rises almost steadily , and the only question is , how much higher it is to be this year than it was the last . 
Neither could I do without them . 
Every man looks at his wood pile with a kind of affection . 
I love to have mine before my window , and the more chips the better to remind me of my pleasing work . 
If it was dull , it was at least hung true . 
A few pieces of fat pine were a great treasure . 
It is interesting to remember how much of this food for fire is still concealed in the bowels of the earth . 
In previous years I had often gone prospecting over some bare hillside , where a pitch pine wood had formerly stood , and got out the fat pine roots . 
But commonly I kindled my fire with the dry leaves of the forest , which I had stored up in my shed before the snow came . 
Green hickory finely split makes the woodchopper's kindlings , when he has a camp in the woods . 
Once in a while I got a little of this . 
Hard green wood just cut , though I used but little of that , answered my purpose better than any other . 
My house was not empty though I was gone . 
It was as if I had left a cheerful housekeeper behind . 
It was I and Fire that lived there and commonly my housekeeper proved trustworthy . 
Some of my friends spoke as if I was coming to the woods on purpose to freeze myself . 
Thus he goes a step or two beyond instinct , and saves a little time for the fine arts . 
But the most luxuriously housed has little to boast of in this respect , nor need we trouble ourselves to speculate how the human race may be at last destroyed . 
It would be easy to cut their threads any time with a little sharper blast from the north . 
We go on dating from Cold Fridays and Great Snows but a little colder Friday , or greater snow would put a period to man's existence on the globe . 
The next winter I used a small cooking stove for economy , since I did not own the forest but it did not keep fire so well as the open fireplace . 
Cooking was then , for the most part , no longer a poetic , but merely a chemic process . 
It will soon be forgotten , in these days of stoves , that we used to roast potatoes in the ashes , after the Indian fashion . 
The stove not only took up room and scented the house , but it concealed the fire , and I felt as if I had lost a companion . 
You can always see a face in the fire . 
The laborer , looking into it at evening , purifies his thoughts of the dross and earthiness which they have accumulated during the day . 
But I could no longer sit and look into the fire , and the pertinent words of a poet recurred to me with new force . 
Never , bright flame , may be denied to me Thy dear , life imaging , close sympathy . 
For many weeks I met no one in my walks but those who came occasionally to cut wood and sled it to the village . 
For human society I was obliged to conjure up the former occupants of these woods . 
Some say that he was a Guinea Negro . 
He too , however , occupies an equally narrow house at present . 
Cato's half obliterated cellar hole still remains , though known to few , being concealed from the traveller by a fringe of pines . 
She led a hard life , and somewhat inhumane . 
It also told me , with staring emphasis , when he died which was but an indirect way of informing me that he ever lived . 
But history must not yet tell the tragedies enacted here let time intervene in some measure to assuage and lend an azure tint to them . 
Here the most indistinct and dubious tradition says that once a tavern stood the well the same , which tempered the traveller's beverage and refreshed his steed . 
Here then men saluted one another , and heard and told the news , and went their ways again . 
Breed's hut was standing only a dozen years ago , though it had long been unoccupied . 
It was about the size of mine . 
It was set on fire by mischievous boys , one Election night , if I do not mistake . 
It fairly overcame my Nervii . 
We thought it was far south over the woods we who had run to fires before barn , shop , or dwelling house , or all together . 
It's Baker's barn , cried one . 
It is the Codman place , affirmed another . 
The very nearness of the fire but cooled our ardor . 
At first we thought to throw a frog pond on to it but concluded to let it burn , it was so far gone and so worthless . 
We finally retreated without doing any mischief returned to sleep and Gondibert . 
But as for Gondibert , I would except that passage in the preface about wit being the soul's powder but most of mankind are strangers to wit , as Indians are to powder . 
The house being gone , he looked at what there was left . 
I felt it , and still remark it almost daily in my walks , for by it hangs the history of a family . 
Once more , on the left , where are seen the well and lilac bushes by the wall , in the now open field , lived Nutting and Le Grosse . 
But to return toward Lincoln . 
One day in midsummer , when I was hoeing , a man who was carrying a load of pottery to market stopped his horse against my field and inquired concerning Wyman the younger . 
He had long ago bought a potter's wheel of him , and wished to know what had become of him . 
, who occupied Wyman's tenement Col . 
Quoil , he was called . 
Rumor said that he had been a soldier at Waterloo . 
If he had lived I should have made him fight his battles over again . 
His trade here was that of a ditcher . 
Helena Quoil came to Walden Woods . 
All I know of him is tragic . 
He was a man of manners , like one who had seen the world , and was capable of more civil speech than you could well attend to . 
He wore a greatcoat in midsummer , being affected with the trembling delirium , and his face was the color of carmine . 
He died in the road at the foot of Brister's Hill shortly after I came to the woods , so that I have not remembered him as a neighbor . 
Before his house was pulled down , when his comrades avoided it as an unlucky castle , I visited it . 
There lay his old clothes curled up by use , as if they were himself , upon his raised plank bed . 
His pipe lay broken on the hearth , instead of a bowl broken at the fountain . 
One black chicken which the administrator could not catch , black as night and as silent , not even croaking , awaiting Reynard , still went to roost in the next apartment . 
It was overrun with Roman wormwood and beggar ticks , which last stuck to my clothes for all fruit . 
The skin of a woodchuck was freshly stretched upon the back of the house , a trophy of his last Waterloo but no warm cap or mittens would he want more . 
What a sorrowful act must that be the covering up of wells ! coincident with the opening of wells of tears . 
But all I can learn of their conclusions amounts to just this , that Cato and Brister pulled wool which is about as edifying as the history of more famous schools of philosophy . 
I mark its still tender , civil , cheerful lilac colors . 
They were universally a thirsty race . 
I am not aware that any man has ever built on the spot which I occupy . 
Deliver me from a city built on the site of a more ancient city , whose materials are ruins , whose gardens cemeteries . 
The soil is blanched and accursed there , and before that becomes necessary the earth itself will be destroyed . 
With such reminiscences I repeopled the woods and lulled myself asleep . 
At this season I seldom had a visitor . 
But no friendly Indian concerned himself about me nor needed he , for the master of the house was at home . 
sitting on one of the lower dead limbs of a white pine , close to the trunk , in broad daylight , I standing within a rod of him . 
He could hear me when I moved and cronched the snow with my feet , but could not plainly see me . 
I too felt a slumberous influence after watching him half an hour , as he sat thus with his eyes half open , like a cat , winged brother of the cat . 
Nor was it much better by the carriage road from Brister's Hill . 
The one who came from farthest to my lodge , through deepest snows and most dismal tempests , was a poet . 
A farmer , a hunter , a soldier , a reporter , even a philosopher , may be daunted but nothing can deter a poet , for he is actuated by pure love . 
Who can predict his comings and goings ? His business calls him out at all hours , even when doctors sleep . 
We made that small house ring with boisterous mirth and resound with the murmur of much sober talk , making amends then to Walden vale for the long silences . 
Broadway was still and deserted in comparison . 
At suitable intervals there were regular salutes of laughter , which might have been referred indifferently to the last uttered or the forth coming jest . 
We made many a bran new theory of life over a thin dish of gruel , which combined the advantages of conviviality with the clear headedness which philosophy requires . 
One of the last of the philosophers Connecticut gave him to the world he peddled first her wares , afterwards , as he declares , his brains . 
These he peddles still , prompting God and disgracing man , bearing for fruit his brain only , like the nut its kernel . 
I think that he must be the man of the most faith of any alive . 
His words and attitude always suppose a better state of things than other men are acquainted with , and he will be the last man to be disappointed as the ages revolve . 
He has no venture in the present . 
But though comparatively disregarded now , when his day comes , laws unsuspected by most will take effect , and masters of families and rulers will come to him for advice . 
How blind that cannot see serenity ! A true friend of man almost the only friend of human progress . 
With his hospitable intellect he embraces children , beggars , insane , and scholars , and entertains the thought of all , adding to it commonly some breadth and elegance . 
Enter ye that have leisure and a quiet mind , who earnestly seek the right road . 
He is perhaps the sanest man and has the fewest crotchets of any I chance to know the same yesterday and tomorrow . 
Of yore we had sauntered and talked , and effectually put the world behind us for he was pledged to no institution in it , freeborn , ingenuus . 
Whichever way we turned , it seemed that the heavens and the earth had met together , since he enhanced the beauty of the landscape . 
A blue robed man , whose fittest roof is the overarching sky which reflects his serenity . 
I do not see how he can ever die Nature cannot spare him . 
Having each some shingles of thought well dried , we sat and whittled them , trying our knives , and admiring the clear yellowish grain of the pumpkin pine . 
There we worked , revising mythology , rounding a fable here and there , and building castles in the air for which earth offered no worthy foundation . 
Great Looker ! Great Expecter ! to converse with whom was a New England Night's Entertainment . 
There too , as everywhere , I sometimes expected the Visitor who never comes . 
I often performed this duty of hospitality , waited long enough to milk a whole herd of cows , but did not see the man approaching from the town . 
Winter Animals When the ponds were firmly frozen , they afforded not only new and shorter routes to many points , but new views from their surfaces of the familiar landscape around them . 
I took this course when I went to lecture in Lincoln in the evening , travelling in no road and passing no house between my own hut and the lecture room . 
They passed over the pond toward Fair Haven , seemingly deterred from settling by my light , their commodore honking all the while with a regular beat . 
And yet , if you had a discriminating ear , there were in it the elements of a concord such as these plains never saw nor heard . 
Sometimes one came near to my window , attracted by my light , barked a vulpine curse at me , and then retreated . 
waked me in the dawn , coursing over the roof and up and down the sides of the house , as if sent out of the woods for this purpose . 
In the twilight and the night the rabbits came regularly and made a hearty meal . 
All day long the red squirrels came and went , and afforded me much entertainment by their manoeuvres . 
They were so familiar that at length one alighted on an armful of wood which I was carrying in , and pecked at the sticks without fear . 
The squirrels also grew at last to be quite familiar , and occasionally stepped upon my shoe , when that was the nearest way . 
It is frequently covered up by drifts , and , it is said , sometimes plunges from on wing into the soft snow , where it remains concealed for a day or two . 
I used to start them in the open land also , where they had come out of the woods at sunset to bud the wild apple trees . 
They will come regularly every evening to particular trees , where the cunning sportsman lies in wait for them , and the distant orchards next the woods suffer thus not a little . 
I am glad that the partridge gets fed , at any rate . 
It is Nature's own bird which lives on buds and diet drink . 
The woods ring again , and yet no fox bursts forth on to the open level of the pond , nor following pack pursuing their Actaeon . 
And perhaps at evening I see the hunters returning with a single brush trailing from their sleigh for a trophy , seeking their inn . 
Ere long the hounds arrived , but here they lost the scent . 
Thus they circle until they fall upon the recent trail of a fox , for a wise hound will forsake everything else for this . 
One day a man came to my hut from Lexington to inquire after his hound that made a large track , and had been hunting for a week by himself . 
Some way behind came an old hound and her three pups in full pursuit , hunting on their own account , and disappeared again in the woods . 
The hunter still kept his place and listened to the hounds . 
Still on they came , and now the near woods resounded through all their aisles with their demoniac cry . 
Then the hunter came forward and stood in their midst , and the mystery was solved . 
They waited in silence while he skinned the fox , then followed the brush a while , and at length turned off into the woods again . 
The Concord hunter told him what he knew and offered him the skin but the other declined it and departed . 
Nutting had a famous foxhound named Burgoyne he pronounced it Bugine which my informant used to borrow . 
In the Wast Book of an old trader of this town , who was also a captain , town clerk , and representative , I find the following entry . 
th , , John Melven Cr . 
Credit is given for deerskins also , and they were daily sold . 
One man still preserves the horns of the last deer that was killed in this vicinity , and another has told me the particulars of the hunt in which his uncle was engaged . 
The hunters were formerly a numerous and merry crew here . 
Squirrels and wild mice disputed for my store of nuts . 
These trees were alive and apparently flourishing at midsummer , and many of them had grown a foot , though completely girdled but after another winter such were without exception dead . 
The hares were very familiar . 
Sometimes in the twilight I alternately lost and recovered sight of one sitting motionless under my window . 
When I opened my door in the evening , off they would go with a squeak and a bounce . 
Near at hand they only excited my pity . 
It looked as if Nature no longer contained the breed of nobler bloods , but stood on her last toes . 
Its large eyes appeared young and unhealthy , almost dropsical . 
Not without reason was its slenderness . 
Such then was its nature . 
It is hardly as if you had seen a wild creature when a rabbit or a partridge bursts away , only a natural one , as much to be expected as rustling leaves . 
The partridge and the rabbit are still sure to thrive , like true natives of the soil , whatever revolutions occur . 
If the forest is cut off , the sprouts and bushes which spring up afford them concealment , and they become more numerous than ever . 
That must be a poor country indeed that does not support a hare . 
I awoke to an answered question , to Nature and daylight . 
She has long ago taken her resolution . 
O Prince , our eyes contemplate with admiration and transmit to the soul the wonderful and varied spectacle of this universe . 
The night veils without doubt a part of this glorious creation but day comes to reveal to us this great work , which extends from earth even into the plains of the ether . 
Then to my morning work . 
First I take an axe and pail and go in search of water , if that be not a dream . 
After a cold and snowy night it needed a divining rod to find it . 
Like the marmots in the surrounding hills , it closes its eyelids and becomes dormant for three months or more . 
Heaven is under our feet is well as over our heads . 
They sit and eat their luncheon in stout fear naughts on the dry oak leaves on the shore , as wise in natural lore as the citizen is in artificial . 
They never consulted with books , and know and can tell much less than they have done . 
The things which they practice are said not yet to be known . 
Here is one fishing for pickerel with grown perch for bait . 
You look into his pail with wonder as into a summer pond , as if he kept summer locked up at home , or knew where she had retreated . 
How , pray , did he get these in midwinter ? Oh , he got worms out of rotten logs since the ground froze , and so he caught them . 
His life itself passes deeper in nature than the studies of the naturalist penetrate himself a subject for the naturalist . 
He gets his living by barking trees . 
Such a man has some right to fish , and I love to see nature carried out in him . 
The perch swallows the grub worm , the pickerel swallows the perch , and the fisher man swallows the pickerel and so all the chinks in the scale of being are filled . 
When I strolled around the pond in misty weather I was sometimes amused by the primitive mode which some ruder fisherman had adopted . 
These alders loomed through the mist at regular intervals as you walked half way round the pond . 
They possess a quite dazzling and transcendent beauty which separates them by a wide interval from the cadaverous cod and haddock whose fame is trumpeted in our streets . 
They , of course , are Walden all over and all through are themselves small Waldens in the animal kingdom , Waldenses . 
I never chanced to see its kind in any market it would be the cynosure of all eyes there . 
Easily , with a few convulsive quirks , they give up their watery ghosts , like a mortal translated before his time to the thin air of heaven . 
There have been many stories told about the bottom , or rather no bottom , of this pond , which certainly had no foundation for themselves . 
It is remarkable how long men will believe in the bottomlessness of a pond without taking the trouble to sound it . 
I have visited two such Bottomless Ponds in one walk in this neighborhood . 
Many have believed that Walden reached quite through to the other side of the globe . 
But I can assure my readers that Walden has a reasonably tight bottom at a not unreasonable , though at an unusual , depth . 
The greatest depth was exactly one hundred and two feet to which may be added the five feet which it has risen since , making one hundred and seven . 
This is a remarkable depth for so small an area yet not an inch of it can be spared by the imagination . 
What if all ponds were shallow ? Would it not react on the minds of men ? I am thankful that this pond was made deep and pure for a symbol . 
While men believe in the infinite some ponds will be thought to be bottomless . 
But the deepest ponds are not so deep in proportion to their area as most suppose , and , if drained , would not leave very remarkable valleys . 
Most ponds , emptied , would leave a meadow no more hollow than we frequently see . 
So much for the increased horrors of the chasm of Loch Fyne when emptied . 
Often an inquisitive eye may detect the shores of a primitive lake in the low horizon hills , and no subsequent elevation of the plain have been necessary to conceal their history . 
But it is easiest , as they who work on the highways know , to find the hollows by the puddles after a shower . 
The amount of it is , the imagination give it the least license , dives deeper and soars higher than Nature goes . 
So , probably , the depth of the ocean will be found to be very inconsiderable compared with its breadth . 
In the deepest part there are several acres more level than almost any field which is exposed to the sun , wind , and plow . 
Some are accustomed to speak of deep and dangerous holes even in quiet sandy ponds like this , but the effect of water under these circumstances is to level all inequalities . 
Cape becomes bar , and plain shoal , and valley and gorge deep water and channel . 
Every harbor on the sea coast , also , has its bar at its entrance . 
In proportion as the mouth of the cove was wider compared with its length , the water over the bar was deeper compared with that in the basin . 
Of course , a stream running through , or an island in the pond , would make the problem much more complicated . 
If we knew all the laws of Nature , we should need only one fact , or the description of one actual phenomenon , to infer all the particular results at that point . 
Even when cleft or bored through it is not comprehended in its entireness . 
What I have observed of the pond is no less true in ethics . 
It is the law of average . 
Perhaps we need only to know how his shores trend and his adjacent country or circumstances , to infer his depth and concealed bottom . 
If he is surrounded by mountainous circumstances , an Achillean shore , whose peaks overshadow and are reflected in his bosom , they suggest a corresponding depth in him . 
But a low and smooth shore proves him shallow on that side . 
In our bodies , a bold projecting brow falls off to and indicates a corresponding depth of thought . 
Also there is a bar across the entrance of our every cove , or particular inclination each is our harbor for a season , in which we are detained and partially land locked . 
These inclinations are not whimsical usually , but their form , size , and direction are determined by the promontories of the shore , the ancient axes of elevation . 
It was a small cavity under ten feet of water but I think that I can warrant the pond not to need soldering till they find a worse leak than that . 
While I was surveying , the ice , which was sixteen inches thick , undulated under a slight wind like water . 
It is well known that a level cannot be used on ice . 
It was probably greater in the middle . 
This was somewhat like cutting a hole in the bottom of a ship to let the water out . 
It may be that he lays up no treasures in this world which will cool his summer drink in the next . 
It looks like solidified azure , as , far off , it is drawn through the streets . 
I did not know whether they had come to sow a crop of winter rye , or some other kind of grain recently introduced from Iceland . 
As I saw no manure , I judged that they meant to skim the land , as I had done , thinking the soil was deep and had lain fallow long enough . 
To speak literally , a hundred Irishmen , with Yankee overseers , came from Cambridge every day to get out the ice . 
They told me that in a good day they could get out a thousand tons , which was the yield of about one acre . 
They calculated that not twenty five per cent of this would reach its destination , and that two or three per cent would be wasted in the cars . 
Thus the pond recovered the greater part . 
I have noticed that a portion of Walden which in the state of water was green will often , when frozen , appear from the same point of view blue . 
So the hollows about this pond will , sometimes , in the winter , be filled with a greenish water somewhat like its own , but the next day will have frozen blue . 
Perhaps the blue color of water and ice is due to the light and air they contain , and the most transparent is the bluest . 
Ice is an interesting subject for contemplation . 
They told me that they had some in the ice houses at Fresh Pond five years old which was as good as ever . 
Why is it that a bucket of water soon becomes putrid , but frozen remains sweet forever ? It is commonly said that this is the difference between the affections and the intellect . 
Thus it appears that the sweltering inhabitants of Charleston and New Orleans , of Madras and Bombay and Calcutta , drink at my well . 
I meet his servant come to draw water for his master , and our buckets as it were grate together in the same well . 
The pure Walden water is mingled with the sacred water of the Ganges . 
But such was not the effect on Walden that year , for she had soon got a thick new garment to take the place of the old . 
I never knew it to open in the course of a winter , not excepting that of , which gave the ponds so severe a trial . 
It indicates better than any water hereabouts the absolute progress of the season , being least affected by transient changes of temperature . 
A severe cold of a few days duration in March may very much retard the opening of the former ponds , while the temperature of Walden increases almost uninterruptedly . 
The ice in the shallowest part was at this time several inches thinner than in the middle . 
In midwinter the middle had been the warmest and the ice thinnest there . 
Also , as I have said , the bubbles themselves within the ice operate as burning glasses to melt the ice beneath . 
The phenomena of the year take place every day in a pond on a small scale . 
The day is an epitome of the year . 
The night is the winter , the morning and evening are the spring and fall , and the noon is the summer . 
The cracking and booming of the ice indicate a change of temperature . 
It took a short siesta at noon , and boomed once more toward night , as the sun was withdrawing his influence . 
In the right stage of the weather a pond fires its evening gun with great regularity . 
The fishermen say that the thundering of the pond scares the fishes and prevents their biting . 
The pond does not thunder every evening , and I cannot tell surely when to expect its thundering but though I may perceive no difference in the weather , it does . 
The earth is all alive and covered with papillae . 
The largest pond is as sensitive to atmospheric changes as the globule of mercury in its tube . 
One attraction in coming to the woods to live was that I should have leisure and opportunity to see the Spring come in . 
The ice in the pond at length begins to be honeycombed , and I can set my heel in it as I walk . 
On the th of March , after I had heard the bluebird , song sparrow , and red wing , the ice was still nearly a foot thick . 
One year I went across the middle only five days before it disappeared entirely . 
Every incident connected with the breaking up of the rivers and ponds and the settling of the weather is particularly interesting to us who live in a climate of so great extremes . 
So the alligator comes out of the mud with quakings of the earth . 
It was a warm day , and he was surprised to see so great a body of ice remaining . 
The material was sand of every degree of fineness and of various rich colors , commonly mixed with a little clay . 
Innumerable little streams overlap and interlace one with another , exhibiting a sort of hybrid product , which obeys half way the law of currents , and half way that of vegetation . 
The whole cut impressed me as if it were a cave with its stalactites laid open to the light . 
The various shades of the sand are singularly rich and agreeable , embracing the different iron colors , brown , gray , yellowish , and reddish . 
What makes this sand foliage remarkable is its springing into existence thus suddenly . 
I feel as if I were nearer to the vitals of the globe , for this sandy overflow is something such a foliaceous mass as the vitals of the animal body . 
You find thus in the very sands an anticipation of the vegetable leaf . 
No wonder that the earth expresses itself outwardly in leaves , it so labors with the idea inwardly . 
The atoms have already learned this law , and are pregnant by it . 
The overhanging leaf sees here its prototype . 
externally a dry thin leaf , even as the f and v are a pressed and dried b . 
, with the liquid l behind it pressing it forward . 
In globe , glb , the guttural g adds to the meaning the capacity of the throat . 
The feathers and wings of birds are still drier and thinner leaves . 
Thus , also , you pass from the lumpish grub in the earth to the airy and fluttering butterfly . 
The very globe continually transcends and translates itself , and becomes winged in its orbit . 
Even ice begins with delicate crystal leaves , as if it had flowed into moulds which the fronds of waterplants have impressed on the watery mirror . 
The whole tree itself is but one leaf , and rivers are still vaster leaves whose pulp is intervening earth , and towns and cities are the ova of insects in their axils . 
When the sun withdraws the sand ceases to flow , but in the morning the streams will start once more and branch and branch again into a myriad of others . 
You here see perchance how blood vessels are formed . 
It is wonderful how rapidly yet perfectly the sand organizes itself as it flows , using the best material its mass affords to form the sharp edges of its channel . 
Such are the sources of rivers . 
In the silicious matter which the water deposits is perhaps the bony system , and in the still finer soil and organic matter the fleshy fibre or cellular tissue . 
What is man but a mass of thawing clay ? The ball of the human finger is but a drop congealed . 
The fingers and toes flow to their extent from the thawing mass of the body . 
laps or lapses from the sides of the cavernous mouth . 
The nose is a manifest congealed drop or stalactite . 
The chin is a still larger drop , the confluent dripping of the face . 
The cheeks are a slide from the brows into the valley of the face , opposed and diffused by the cheek bones . 
Thus it seemed that this one hillside illustrated the principle of all the operations of Nature . 
The Maker of this earth but patented a leaf . 
This is the frost coming out of the ground this is Spring . 
It precedes the green and flowery spring , as mythology precedes regular poetry . 
I know of nothing more purgative of winter fumes and indigestions . 
It convinces me that Earth is still in her swaddling clothes , and stretches forth baby fingers on every side . 
Fresh curls spring from the baldest brow . 
These foliaceous heaps lie along the bank like the slag of a furnace , showing that Nature is in full blast within . 
Its throes will heave our exuviae from their graves . 
You may melt your metals and cast them into the most beautiful moulds you can they will never excite me like the forms which this molten earth flows out into . 
And not only it , but the institutions upon it are plastic like clay in the hands of the potter . 
Thaw with his gentle persuasion is more powerful than Thor with his hammer . 
The one melts , the other but breaks in pieces . 
It is an antique style , older than Greek or Egyptian . 
Many of the phenomena of Winter are suggestive of an inexpressible tenderness and fragile delicacy . 
We are accustomed to hear this king described as a rude and boisterous tyrant but with the gentleness of a lover he adorns the tresses of Summer . 
No , you don't chickaree chickaree . 
They were wholly deaf to my arguments , or failed to perceive their force , and fell into a strain of invective that was irresistible . 
The marsh hawk , sailing low over the meadow , is already seeking the first slimy life that awakes . 
The sinking sound of melting snow is heard in all dells , and the ice dissolves apace in the ponds . 
It grows as steadily as the rill oozes out of the ground . 
So our human life but dies down to its root , and still puts forth its green blade to eternity . 
There is a canal two rods wide along the northerly and westerly sides , and wider still at the east end . 
A great field of ice has cracked off from the main body . 
I hear a song sparrow singing from the bushes on the shore olit , olit , olit chip , chip , chip , che char che wiss , wiss , wiss . 
He too is helping to crack it . 
But the wind slides eastward over its opaque surface in vain , till it reaches the living surface beyond . 
Such is the contrast between winter and spring . 
Walden was dead and is alive again . 
But this spring it broke up more steadily , as I have said . 
The change from storm and winter to serene and mild weather , from dark and sluggish hours to bright and elastic ones , is a memorable crisis which all things proclaim . 
It is seemingly instantaneous at last . 
Suddenly an influx of light filled my house , though the evening was at hand , and the clouds of winter still overhung it , and the eaves were dripping with sleety rain . 
O the evening robin , at the end of a New England summer day ! If I could ever find the twig he sits upon ! I mean he I mean the twig . 
This at least is not the Turdus migratorius . 
I knew that it would not rain any more . 
You may tell by looking at any twig of the forest , ay , at your very wood pile , whether its winter is past or not . 
So I came in , and shut the door , and passed my first spring night in the woods . 
A plump of ducks rose at the same time and took the route to the north in the wake of their noisier cousins . 
As every season seems best to us in its turn , so the coming in of spring is like the creation of Cosmos out of Chaos and the realization of the Golden Age . 
Eurus ad Auroram Nabathaeaque regna recessit , Persidaque , et radiis juga subdita matutinis . 
The East Wind withdrew to Aurora and the Nabathean kingdom , And the Persian , and the ridges placed under the morning rays . 
A single gentle rain makes the grass many shades greener . 
So our prospects brighten on the influx of better thoughts . 
We loiter in winter while it is already spring . 
In a pleasant spring morning all men's sins are forgiven . 
Such a day is a truce to vice . 
While such a sun holds out to burn , the vilest sinner may return . 
Through our own recovered innocence we discern the innocence of our neighbors . 
You see some innocent fair shoots preparing to burst from his gnarled rind and try another year's life , tender and fresh as the youngest plant . 
Even he has entered into the joy of his Lord . 
In like manner the evil which one does in the interval of a day prevents the germs of virtues which began to spring up again from developing themselves and destroys them . 
After the germs of virtue have thus been prevented many times from developing themselves , then the beneficent breath of evening does not suffice to preserve them . 
As soon as the breath of evening does not suffice longer to preserve them , then the nature of man does not differ much from that of the brute . 
Men seeing the nature of this man like that of the brute , think that he has never possessed the innate faculty of reason . 
Are those the true and natural sentiments of man ? The Golden Age was first created , which without any avenger Spontaneously without law cherished fidelity and rectitude . 
Punishment and fear were not nor were threatening words read On suspended brass nor did the suppliant crowd fear The words of their judge but were safe without an avenger . 
Not yet the pine felled on its mountains had descended To the liquid waves that it might see a foreign world , And mortals knew no shores but their own . 
There was eternal spring , and placid zephyrs with warm Blasts soothed the flowers born without seed . 
This sight reminded me of falconry and what nobleness and poetry are associated with that sport . 
The Merlin it seemed to me it might be called but I care not for its name . 
It was the most ethereal flight I had ever witnessed . 
It appeared to have no companion in the universe sporting there alone and to need none but the morning and the ether with which it played . 
It was not lonely , but made all the earth lonely beneath it . 
Beside this I got a rare mess of golden and silver and bright cupreous fishes , which looked like a string of jewels . 
There needs no stronger proof of immortality . 
All things must live in such a light . 
We can never have enough of nature . 
We need to witness our own limits transgressed , and some life pasturing freely where we never wander . 
We are cheered when we observe the vulture feeding on the carrion which disgusts and disheartens us , and deriving health and strength from the repast . 
The impression made on a wise man is that of universal innocence . 
Poison is not poisonous after all , nor are any wounds fatal . 
Compassion is a very untenable ground . 
Its pleadings will not bear to be stereotyped . 
I had heard the wood thrush long before . 
The sulphur like pollen of the pitch pine soon covered the pond and the stones and rotten wood along the shore , so that you could have collected a barrelful . 
This is the sulphur showers we bear of . 
Even in Calidas' drama of Sacontala , we read of rills dyed yellow with the golden dust of the lotus . 
And so the seasons went rolling on into summer , as one rambles into higher and higher grass . 
Thus was my first year's life in the woods completed and the second year was similar to it . 
I finally left Walden September th , . 
Conclusion To the sick the doctors wisely recommend a change of air and scenery . 
Thank Heaven , here is not all the world . 
The buckeye does not grow in New England , and the mockingbird is rarely heard here . 
Even the bison , to some extent , keeps pace with the seasons cropping the pastures of the Colorado only till a greener and sweeter grass awaits him by the Yellowstone . 
Yet we think that if rail fences are pulled down , and stone walls piled up on our farms , bounds are henceforth set to our lives and our fates decided . 
If you are chosen town clerk , forsooth , you cannot go to Tierra del Fuego this summer but you may go to the land of infernal fire nevertheless . 
The universe is wider than our views of it . 
Yet we should oftener look over the tafferel of our craft , like curious passengers , and not make the voyage like stupid sailors picking oakum . 
The other side of the globe is but the home of our correspondent . 
Our voyaging is only great circle sailing , and the doctors prescribe for diseases of the skin merely . 
One hastens to southern Africa to chase the giraffe but surely that is not the game he would be after . 
Direct your eye right inward , and you'll find A thousand regions in your mind Yet undiscovered . 
Travel them , and be Expert in home cosmography . 
What does Africa what does the West stand for ? Is not our own interior white on the chart ? black though it may prove , like the coast , when discovered . 
Every man is the lord of a realm beside which the earthly empire of the Czar is but a petty state , a hummock left by the ice . 
Yet some can be patriotic who have no self respect , and sacrifice the greater to the less . 
They love the soil which makes their graves , but have no sympathy with the spirit which may still animate their clay . 
Patriotism is a maggot in their heads . 
Erret , et extremos alter scrutetur Iberos . 
Plus habet hic vitae , plus habet ille viae . 
Let them wander and scrutinize the outlandish Australians . 
I have more of God , they more of the road . 
It is not worth the while to go round the world to count the cats in Zanzibar . 
Yet do this even till you can do better , and you may perhaps find some Symmes' Hole by which to get at the inside at last . 
Herein are demanded the eye and the nerve . 
Only the defeated and deserters go to the wars , cowards that run away and enlist . 
It is said that Mirabeau took to highway robbery to ascertain what degree of resolution was necessary in order to place one's self in formal opposition to the most sacred laws of society . 
This was manly , as the world goes and yet it was idle , if not desperate . 
I left the woods for as good a reason as I went there . 
Perhaps it seemed to me that I had several more lives to live , and could not spare any more time for that one . 
It is remarkable how easily and insensibly we fall into a particular route , and make a beaten track for ourselves . 
It is true , I fear , that others may have fallen into it , and so helped to keep it open . 
The surface of the earth is soft and impressible by the feet of men and so with the paths which the mind travels . 
I do not wish to go below now . 
In proportion as he simplifies his life , the laws of the universe will appear less complex , and solitude will not be solitude , nor poverty poverty , nor weakness weakness . 
If you have built castles in the air , your work need not be lost that is where they should be . 
Now put the foundations under them . 
It is a ridiculous demand which England and America make , that you shall speak so that they can understand you . 
Neither men nor toadstools grow so . 
As if that were important , and there were not enough to understand you without them . 
As if there were safety in stupidity alone . 
Extra vagance ! it depends on how you are yarded . 
The volatile truth of our words should continually betray the inadequacy of the residual statement . 
Their truth is instantly translated its literal monument alone remains . 
The words which express our faith and piety are not definite yet they are significant and fragrant like frankincense to superior natures . 
Why level downward to our dullest perception always , and praise that as common sense ? The commonest sense is the sense of men asleep , which they express by snoring . 
Sometimes we are inclined to class those who are once and a half witted with the half witted , because we appreciate only a third part of their wit . 
Some would find fault with the morning red , if they ever got up early enough . 
The purity men love is like the mists which envelop the earth , and not like the azure ether beyond . 
Some are dinning in our ears that we Americans , and moderns generally , are intellectual dwarfs compared with the ancients , or even the Elizabethan men . 
But what is that to the purpose ? A living dog is better than a dead lion . 
Let him step to the music which he hears , however measured or far away . 
It is not important that he should mature as soon as an apple tree or an oak . 
One day it came into his mind to make a staff . 
His singleness of purpose and resolution , and his elevated piety , endowed him , without his knowledge , with perennial youth . 
As he made no compromise with Time , Time kept out of his way , and only sighed at a distance because he could not overcome him . 
Before he had found a stock in all respects suitable the city of Kouroo was a hoary ruin , and he sat on one of its mounds to peel the stick . 
For the most part , we are not where we are , but in a false position . 
In sane moments we regard only the facts , the case that is . 
Say what you have to say , not what you ought . 
Any truth is better than make believe . 
Tom Hyde , the tinker , standing on the gallows , was asked if he had anything to say . 
Tell the tailors , said he , to remember to make a knot in their thread before they take the first stitch . 
His companion's prayer is forgotten . 
However mean your life is , meet it and live it do not shun it and call it hard names . 
It is not so bad as you are . 
It looks poorest when you are richest . 
The fault finder will find faults even in paradise . 
Love your life , poor as it is . 
You may perhaps have some pleasant , thrilling , glorious hours , even in a poorhouse . 
The setting sun is reflected from the windows of the almshouse as brightly as from the rich man's abode the snow melts before its door as early in the spring . 
I do not see but a quiet mind may live as contentedly there , and have as cheering thoughts , as in a palace . 
The town's poor seem to me often to live the most independent lives of any . 
Maybe they are simply great enough to receive without misgiving . 
Most think that they are above being supported by the town but it oftener happens that they are not above supporting themselves by dishonest means , which should be more disreputable . 
Cultivate poverty like a garden herb , like sage . 
Do not trouble yourself much to get new things , whether clothes or friends . 
Turn the old return to them . 
Things do not change we change . 
Sell your clothes and keep your thoughts . 
God will see that you do not want society . 
Do not seek so anxiously to be developed , to subject yourself to many influences to be played on it is all dissipation . 
Humility like darkness reveals the heavenly lights . 
The shadows of poverty and meanness gather around us , and lo ! creation widens to our view . 
We are often reminded that if there were bestowed on us the wealth of Croesus , our aims must still be the same , and our means essentially the same . 
It is life near the bone where it is sweetest . 
You are defended from being a trifler . 
No man loses ever on a lower level by magnanimity on a higher . 
Superfluous wealth can buy superfluities only . 
Money is not required to buy one necessary of the soul . 
I live in the angle of a leaden wall , into whose composition was poured a little alloy of bell metal . 
Often , in the repose of my mid day , there reaches my ears a confused tintinnabulum from without . 
It is the noise of my contemporaries . 
The interest and the conversation are about costume and manners chiefly but a goose is a goose still , dress it as you will . 
They tell me of California and Texas , of England and the Indies , of the Hon . 
Mr. of Georgia or of Massachusetts , all transient and fleeting phenomena , till I am ready to leap from their court yard like the Mameluke bey . 
What are men celebrating ? They are all on a committee of arrangements , and hourly expect a speech from somebody . 
God is only the president of the day , and Webster is his orator . 
It affords me no satisfaction to commerce to spring an arch before I have got a solid foundation . 
Let us not play at kittly benders . 
There is a solid bottom everywhere . 
We read that the traveller asked the boy if the swamp before him had a hard bottom . 
The boy replied that it had . 
But presently the traveller's horse sank in up to the girths , and he observed to the boy , I thought you said that this bog had a hard bottom . 
So it has , answered the latter , but you have not got half way to it yet . 
So it is with the bogs and quicksands of society but he is an old boy that knows it . 
Only what is thought , said , or done at a certain rare coincidence is good . 
I would not be one of those who will foolishly drive a nail into mere lath and plastering such a deed would keep me awake nights . 
Give me a hammer , and let me feel for the furring . 
Do not depend on the putty . 
So will help you God , and so only . 
Every nail driven should be as another rivet in the machine of the universe , you carrying on the work . 
Rather than love , than money , than fame , give me truth . 
I sat at a table where were rich food and wine in abundance , and obsequious attendance , but sincerity and truth were not and I went away hungry from the inhospitable board . 
The hospitality was as cold as the ices . 
I thought that there was no need of ice to freeze them . 
The style , the house and grounds and entertainment pass for nothing with me . 
I called on the king , but he made me wait in his hall , and conducted like a man incapacitated for hospitality . 
There was a man in my neighborhood who lived in a hollow tree . 
His manners were truly regal . 
I should have done better had I called on him . 
There are the Records of the Philosophical Societies , and the public Eulogies of Great Men ! It is the good Adam contemplating his own virtue . 
Yes , we have done great deeds , and sung divine songs , which shall never die that is , as long as we can remember them . 
These may be but the spring months in the life of the race . 
If we have had the seven years' itch , we have not seen the seventeen year locust yet in Concord . 
We are acquainted with a mere pellicle of the globe on which we live . 
Most have not delved six feet beneath the surface , nor leaped as many above it . 
We know not where we are . 
Beside , we are sound asleep nearly half our time . 
Yet we esteem ourselves wise , and have an established order on the surface . 
There is an incessant influx of novelty into the world , and yet we tolerate incredible dulness . 
I need only suggest what kind of sermons are still listened to in the most enlightened countries . 
There are such words as joy and sorrow , but they are only the burden of a psalm , sung with a nasal twang , while we believe in the ordinary and mean . 
We think that we can change our clothes only . 
It is said that the British Empire is very large and respectable , and that the United States are a first rate power . 
We do not believe that a tide rises and falls behind every man which can float the British Empire like a chip , if he should ever harbor it in his mind . 
The life in us is like the water in the river . 
It may rise this year higher than man has ever known it , and flood the parched uplands even this may be the eventful year , which will drown out all our muskrats . 
It was not always dry land where we dwell . 
I see far inland the banks which the stream anciently washed , before science began to record its freshets . 
The light which puts out our eyes is darkness to us . 
Only that day dawns to which we are awake . 
There is more day to dawn . 
The sun is but a morning star . 
ON THE DUTY OF CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE I heartily accept the motto , That government is best which governs least and I should like to see it acted up to more rapidly and systematically . 
Government is at best but an expedient but most governments are usually , and all governments are sometimes , inexpedient . 
The objections which have been brought against a standing army , and they are many and weighty , and deserve to prevail , may also at last be brought against a standing government . 
The standing army is only an arm of the standing government . 
It is a sort of wooden gun to the people themselves . 
Governments show thus how successfully men can be imposed on , even impose on themselves , for their own advantage . 
It is excellent , we must all allow . 
Yet this government never of itself furthered any enterprise , but by the alacrity with which it got out of its way . 
It does not keep the country free . 
It does not settle the West . 
The character inherent in the American people has done all that has been accomplished and it would have done somewhat more , if the government had not sometimes got in its way . 
Let every man make known what kind of government would command his respect , and that will be one step toward obtaining it . 
But a government in which the majority rule in all cases cannot be based on justice , even as far as men understand it . 
It is not desirable to cultivate a respect for the law , so much as for the right . 
The only obligation which I have a right to assume is to do at any time what I think right . 
It is truly enough said that a corporation has no conscience but a corporation of conscientious men is a corporation with a conscience . 
Law never made men a whit more just and , by means of their respect for it , even the well disposed are daily made the agents of injustice . 
They have no doubt that it is a damnable business in which they are concerned they are all peaceably inclined . 
The mass of men serve the state thus , not as men mainly , but as machines , with their bodies . 
They are the standing army , and the militia , jailers , constables , posse comitatus , etc . 
Such command no more respect than men of straw or a lump of dirt . 
They have the same sort of worth only as horses and dogs . 
Yet such as these even are commonly esteemed good citizens . 
He who gives himself entirely to his fellow men appears to them useless and selfish but he who gives himself partially to them is pronounced a benefactor and philanthropist . 
How does it become a man to behave toward this American government to day ? I answer , that he cannot without disgrace be associated with it . 
I cannot for an instant recognize that political organization as my government which is the slave's government also . 
But almost all say that such is not the case now . 
But such was the case , they think , in the Revolution of . 
All machines have their friction and possibly this does enough good to counterbalance the evil . 
At any rate , it is a great evil to make a stir about it . 
But when the friction comes to have its machine , and oppression and robbery are organized , I say , let us not have such a machine any longer . 
What makes this duty the more urgent is the fact that the country so overrun is not our own , but ours is the invading army . 
that the established government be obeyed , and no longer . 
Of this , he says , every man shall judge for himself . 
If I have unjustly wrested a plank from a drowning man , I must restore it to him though I drown myself . 
This , according to Paley , would be inconvenient . 
But he that would save his life , in such a case , shall lose it . 
This people must cease to hold slaves , and to make war on Mexico , though it cost them their existence as a people . 
We are accustomed to say , that the mass of men are unprepared but improvement is slow , because the few are not materially wiser or better than the many . 
It is not so important that many should be as good as you , as that there be some absolute goodness somewhere for that will leaven the whole lump . 
They will wait , well disposed , for others to remedy the evil , that they may no longer have it to regret . 
At most , they give only a cheap vote , and a feeble countenance and Godspeed , to the right , as it goes by them . 
The character of the voters is not staked . 
I cast my vote , perchance , as I think right but I am not vitally concerned that that right should prevail . 
I am willing to leave it to the majority . 
Its obligation , therefore , never exceeds that of expediency . 
Even voting for the right is doing nothing for it . 
It is only expressing to men feebly your desire that it should prevail . 
A wise man will not leave the right to the mercy of chance , nor wish it to prevail through the power of the majority . 
There is but little virtue in the action of masses of men . 
They will then be the only slaves . 
Only his vote can hasten the abolition of slavery who asserts his own freedom by his vote . 
He forthwith adopts one of the candidates thus selected as the only available one , thus proving that he is himself available for any purposes of the demagogue . 
His vote is of no more worth than that of any unprincipled foreigner or hireling native , who may have been bought . 
How many men are there to a square thousand miles in this country ? Hardly one . 
If I devote myself to other pursuits and contemplations , I must first see , at least , that I do not pursue them sitting upon another man's shoulders . 
I must get off him first , that he may pursue his contemplations too . 
See what gross inconsistency is tolerated . 
Thus , under the name of Order and Civil Government , we are all made at last to pay homage to and support our own meanness . 
After the first blush of sin comes its indifference and from immoral it becomes , as it were , unmoral , and not quite unnecessary to that life which we have made . 
The broadest and most prevalent error requires the most disinterested virtue to sustain it . 
The slight reproach to which the virtue of patriotism is commonly liable , the noble are most likely to incur . 
Some are petitioning the State to dissolve the Union , to disregard the requisitions of the President . 
Action from principle the perception and the performance of right changes things and relations it is essentially revolutionary , and does not consist wholly with anything which was . 
It not only divides states and churches , it divides families ay , it divides the individual , separating the diabolical in him from the divine . 
They think that , if they should resist , the remedy would be worse than the evil . 
But it is the fault of the government itself that the remedy is worse than the evil . 
If the injustice is part of the necessary friction of the machine of government , let it go , let it go perchance it will wear smooth certainly the machine will wear out . 
Let your life be a counter friction to stop the machine . 
What I have to do is to see , at any rate , that I do not lend myself to the wrong which I condemn . 
As for adopting the ways which the State has provided for remedying the evil , I know not of such ways . 
They take too much time , and a man's life will be gone . 
I have other affairs to attend to . 
I came into this world , not chiefly to make this a good place to live in , but to live in it , be it good or bad . 
A man has not everything to do , but something and because he cannot do everything , it is not necessary that he should do something wrong . 
This may seem to be harsh and stubborn and unconciliatory but it is to treat with the utmost kindness and consideration the only spirit that can appreciate or deserves it . 
So is an change for the better , like birth and death which convulse the body . 
I think that it is enough if they have God on their side , without waiting for that other one . 
Moreover , any man more right than his neighbors constitutes a majority of one already . 
For it matters not how small the beginning may seem to be what is once well done is done forever . 
But we love better to talk about it that we say is our mission . 
Reform keeps many scores of newspapers in its service , but not one man . 
Under a government which imprisons any unjustly , the true place for a just man is also a prison . 
Cast your whole vote , not a strip of paper merely , but your whole influence . 
A minority is powerless while it conforms to the majority it is not even a minority then but it is irresistible when it clogs by its whole weight . 
If the alternative is to keep all just men in prison , or give up war and slavery , the State will not hesitate which to choose . 
This is , in fact , the definition of a peaceable revolution , if any such is possible . 
When the subject has refused allegiance , and the officer has resigned his office , then the revolution is accomplished . 
But even suppose blood should flow . 
Is there not a sort of blood shed when the conscience is wounded ? Through this wound a man's real manhood and immortality flow out , and he bleeds to an everlasting death . 
I see this blood flowing now . 
To such the State renders comparatively small service , and a slight tax is wont to appear exorbitant , particularly if they are obliged to earn it by special labor with their hands . 
If there were one who lived wholly without the use of money , the State itself would hesitate to demand it of him . 
But the rich man not to make any invidious comparison is always sold to the institution which makes him rich . 
It puts to rest many questions which he would otherwise be taxed to answer while the only new question which it puts is the hard but superfluous one , how to spend it . 
Thus his moral ground is taken from under his feet . 
The opportunities of living are diminished in proportion as what are called the means are increased . 
The best thing a man can do for his culture when he is rich is to endeavor to carry out those schemes which he entertained when he was poor . 
Christ answered the Herodians according to their condition . 
For my own part , I should not like to think that I ever rely on the protection of the State . 
This makes it impossible for a man to live honestly , and at the same time comfortably in outward respects . 
It will not be worth the while to accumulate property that would be sure to go again . 
You must hire or squat somewhere , and raise but a small crop , and eat that soon . 
You must live within yourself , and depend upon yourself always tucked up and ready for a start , and not have many affairs . 
A man may grow rich in Turkey even , if he will be in all respects a good subject of the Turkish government . 
It costs me less in every sense to incur the penalty of disobedience to the State than it would to obey . 
I should feel as if I were worth less in that case . 
Pay , it said , or be locked up in the jail . 
But , unfortunately , another man saw fit to pay it . 
I did not see why the lyceum should not present its tax bill , and have the State to back its demand , as well as the Church . 
This I gave to the town clerk and he has it . 
I have paid no poll tax for six years . 
I did not for a moment feel confined , and the walls seemed a great waste of stone and mortar . 
I felt as if I alone of all my townsmen had paid my tax . 
They plainly did not know how to treat me , but behaved like persons who are underbred . 
In every threat and in every compliment there was a blunder for they thought that my chief desire was to stand the other side of that stone wall . 
Thus the State never intentionally confronts a man's sense , intellectual or moral , but only his body , his senses . 
It is not armed with superior wit or honesty , but with superior physical strength . 
I was not born to be forced . 
I will breathe after my own fashion . 
Let us see who is the strongest . 
What force has a multitude ? They only can force me who obey a higher law than I. They force me to become like themselves . 
I do not hear of men being forced to have this way or that by masses of men . 
It must help itself do as I do . 
It is not worth the while to snivel about it . 
I am not responsible for the successful working of the machinery of society . 
I am not the son of the engineer . 
If a plant cannot live according to its nature , it dies and so a man . 
The night in prison was novel and interesting enough . 
The prisoners in their shirt sleeves were enjoying a chat and the evening air in the doorway , when I entered . 
But the jailer said , Come , boys , it is time to lock up and so they dispersed , and I heard the sound of their steps returning into the hollow apartments . 
My room mate was introduced to me by the jailer as a first rate fellow and a clever man . 
When the door was locked , he showed me where to hang my hat , and how he managed matters there . 
The rooms were whitewashed once a month and this one , at least , was the whitest , most simply furnished , and probably the neatest apartment in the town . 
Why , said he , they accuse me of burning a barn but I never did it . 
As near as I could discover , he had probably gone to bed in a barn when drunk , and smoked his pipe there and so a barn was burnt . 
He occupied one window , and I the other and I saw that if one stayed there long , his principal business would be to look out the window . 
Probably this is the only house in the town where verses are composed , which are afterward printed in a circular form , but not published . 
I was shown quite a long list of verses which were composed by some young men who had been detected in an attempt to escape , who avenged themselves by singing them . 
It was like travelling into a far country , such as I had never expected to behold , to lie there for one night . 
They were the voices of old burghers that I heard in the streets . 
I was an involuntary spectator and auditor of whatever was done and said in the kitchen of the adjacent village inn a wholly new and rare experience to me . 
It was a closer view of my native town . 
I was fairly inside of it . 
I never had seen its institutions before . 
This is one of its peculiar institutions for it is a shire town . 
I began to comprehend what its inhabitants were about . 
I saw yet more distinctly the State in which I lived . 
This may be to judge my neighbors harshly for I believe that many of them are not aware that they have such an institution as the jail in their village . 
I was put into jail as I was going to the shoemaker's to get a shoe which was mended . 
This is the whole history of My Prisons . 
It is for no particular item in the tax bill that I refuse to pay it . 
I simply wish to refuse allegiance to the State , to withdraw and stand aloof from it effectually . 
This , then , is my position at present . 
But one cannot be too much on his guard in such a case , lest his action be biased by obstinacy or an undue regard for the opinions of men . 
Let him see that he does only what belongs to himself and to the hour . 
You do not put your head into the fire . 
But , if I put my head deliberately into the fire , there is no appeal to fire or to the Maker of fire , and I have only myself to blame . 
I do not wish to quarrel with any man or nation . 
I do not wish to split hairs , to make fine distinctions , or set myself up as better than my neighbors . 
I seek rather , I may say , even an excuse for conforming to the laws of the land . 
I am but too ready to conform to them . 
It is not many moments that I live under a government , even in this world . 
I know that most men think differently from myself but those whose lives are by profession devoted to the study of these or kindred subjects , content me as little as any . 
Statesmen and legislators , standing so completely within the institution , never distinctly and nakedly behold it . 
They speak of moving society , but have no resting place without it . 
They are wont to forget that the world is not governed by policy and expediency . 
Webster never goes behind government , and so cannot speak with authority about it . 
I know of those whose serene and wise speculations on this theme would soon reveal the limits of his mind's range and hospitality . 
Comparatively , he is always strong , original , and , above all , practical . 
Still , his quality is not wisdom , but prudence . 
The lawyer's truth is not truth , but consistency or a consistent expediency . 
Truth is always in harmony with herself , and is not concerned chiefly to reveal the justice that may consist with wrong doing . 
He well deserves to be called , as he has been called , the Defender of the Constitution . 
There are really no blows to be given by him but defensive ones . 
He is not a leader , but a follower . 
His leaders are the men of . 
Still thinking of the sanction which the Constitution gives to slavery , he says , Because it was a part of the original compact let it stand . 
Associations formed elsewhere , springing from a feeling of humanity , or any other cause , have nothing whatever to do with it . 
They have never received any encouragement from me , and they never will . 
No man with a genius for legislation has appeared in America . 
They are rare in the history of the world . 
We love eloquence for its own sake , and not for any truth which it may utter , or any heroism it may inspire . 
Our legislators have not yet learned the comparative value of free trade and of freedom , of union , and of rectitude , to a nation . 
They have no genius or talent for comparatively humble questions of taxation and finance , commerce and manufacturers and agriculture . 
It can have no pure right over my person and property but what I concede to it . 
The progress from an absolute to a limited monarchy , from a limited monarchy to a democracy , is a progress toward a true respect for the individual . 
Even the Chinese philosopher was wise enough to regard the individual as the basis of the empire . 
