Wells But who shall dwell in these worlds if they be inhabited ? . 
Are we or they Lords of the World ? . 
With infinite complacency men went to and fro over this globe about their little affairs , serene in their assurance of their empire over matter . 
It is possible that the infusoria under the microscope do the same . 
It is curious to recall some of the mental habits of those departed days . 
At most terrestrial men fancied there might be other men upon Mars , perhaps inferior to themselves and ready to welcome a mis sionary enterprise . 
And early in the twentieth century came the great disillusionment . 
The fact that it is scarcely one seventh of the volume of the earth must have accelerated its cooling to the temperature at which life could begin . 
It has air and water and all that is necessary for the support of animated existence . 
The secular cooling that must someday overtake our planet has already gone far indeed with our neighbour . 
Its physical condition is still largely a mystery , but we know now that even in its equatorial region the midday temperature barely approaches that of our coldest winter . 
That last stage of exhaustion , which to us is still incredibly remote , has become a present day problem for the inhabitants of Mars . 
The immediate pressure of necessity has brightened their intellects , enlarged their powers , and hardened their hearts . 
And we men , the creatures who inhabit this earth , must be to them at least as alien and lowly as are the monkeys and lemurs to us . 
The intellectual side of man already admits that life is an incessant struggle for existence , and it would seem that this too is the belief of the minds upon Mars . 
Their world is far gone in its cooling and this world is still crowded with life , but crowded only with what they regard as inferior animals . 
To carry warfare sunward is , indeed , their only escape from the destruction that , generation after gener ation , creeps upon them . 
The Tasmanians , in spite of their human likeness , were entirely swept out of existence in a war of extermination waged by European immi grants , in the space of fifty years . 
Had our instru ments permitted it , we might have seen the gathering trouble far back in the nineteenth century . 
All that time the Martians must have been getting ready . 
English readers heard of it first in the issue of NATURE dated August . 
Peculiar markings , as yet unexplained , were seen near the site of that outbreak during the next two oppositions . 
The storm burst upon us six years ago now . 
As Mars approached opposition , Lavelle of Java set the wires of the astronomical exchange palpitating with the amazing intelli gence of a huge outbreak of incandescent gas upon the planet . 
This jet of fire had become invisible about a quarter past twelve . 
He compared it to a colossal puff of flame suddenly and violently squirted out of the planet , as flaming gases rushed out of a gun . 
A singularly appropriate phrase it proved . 
I might not have heard of the eruption at all had I not met Ogilvy , the well known astronomer , at Ottershaw . 
Ogilvy moved about , invisible but audible . 
Looking through the telescope , one saw a circle of deep blue and the little round planet swimming in the field . 
It seemed such a little thing , so bright and small and still , faintly marked with transverse stripes , and slightly flattened from the perfect round . 
As I watched , the planet seemed to grow larger and smaller and to advance and recede , but that was simply that my eye was tired . 
Forty millions of miles it was from us more than forty millions of miles of void . 
Few people realise the im mensity of vacancy in which the dust of the material universe swims . 
Near it in the field , I remember , were three faint points of light , three telescopic stars infinitely remote , and all around it was the unfathomable darkness of empty space . 
You know how that blackness looks on a frosty starlight night . 
In a tele scope it seems far profounder . 
I never dreamed of it then as I watched no one on earth dreamed of that unerring missile . 
That night , too , there was another jetting out of gas from the distant planet . 
A reddish flash at the edge , the slightest projection of the outline just as the chronometer struck midnight and at that I told Ogilvy and he took my place . 
That night another invisible missile started on its way to the earth from Mars , just a second or so under twenty four hours after the first one . 
I remember how I sat on the table there in the blackness , with patches of green and crimson swimming before my eyes . 
I wished I had a light to smoke by , little suspecting the meaning of the minute gleam I had seen and all that it would presently bring me . 
Ogilvy watched till one , and then gave it up and we lit the lantern and walked over to his house . 
Down below in the darkness were Ottershaw and Chertsey and all their hundreds of people , sleeping in peace . 
He was full of speculation that night about the condition of Mars , and scoffed at the vulgar idea of its having in habitants who were signalling us . 
His idea was that meteorites might be falling in a heavy shower upon the planet , or that a huge volcanic explosion was in progress . 
He pointed out to me how unlikely it was that organic evolution had taken the same direction in the two adjacent planets . 
The chances against anything manlike on Mars are a million to one , he said . 
Hundreds of observers saw the flame that night and the night after about midnight , and again the night after and so for ten nights , a flame each night . 
Why the shots ceased after the tenth no one on earth has attempted to explain . 
It may be the gases of the firing caused the Martians in convenience . 
Even the daily papers woke up to the disturbances at last , and popular notes appeared here , there , and everywhere concerning the volcanoes upon Mars . 
The seriocomic periodi cal PUNCH , I remember , made a happy use of it in the political cartoon . 
It seems to me now almost incredibly wonderful that , with that swift fate hanging over us , men could go about their petty concerns as they did . 
I remember how jubilant Markham was at securing a new photograph of the planet for the illustrated paper he edited in those days . 
People in these latter times scarcely realise the abundance and enterprise of our nineteenth century papers . 
For my own part , I was much occupied in learning to ride the bicycle , and busy upon a series of papers discussing the probable developments of moral ideas as civilisation progressed . 
I went for a walk with my wife . 
It was a warm night . 
Coming home , a party of excursionists from Chertsey or Isleworth passed us singing and playing music . 
There were lights in the upper windows of the houses as the people went to bed . 
From the railway station in the distance came the sound of shunting trains , ringing and rumbling , softened almost into melody by the distance . 
My wife pointed out to me the brightness of the red , green , and yellow signal lights hanging in a framework against the sky . 
It seemed so safe and tranquil . 
CHAPTER TWO THE FALLING STAR Then came the night of the first falling star . 
It was seen early in the morning , rushing over Winchester eastward , a line of flame high in the atmosphere . 
Hundreds must have seen it , and taken it for an ordinary falling star . 
Albin de scribed it as leaving a greenish streak behind it that glowed for some seconds . 
Denning , our greatest authority on meteor ites , stated that the height of its first appearance was about ninety or one hundred miles . 
It seemed to him that it fell to earth about one hundred miles east of him . 
, I saw nothing of it . 
Some of those who saw its flight say it travelled with a hissing sound . 
I myself heard nothing of that . 
Many people in Berkshire , Surrey , and Middlesex must have seen the fall of it , and , at most , have thought that another meteorite had descended . 
No one seems to have troubled to look for the fallen mass that night . 
Find it he did , soon after dawn , and not far from the sand pits . 
The heather was on fire eastward , and a thin blue smoke rose against the dawn . 
The Thing itself lay almost entirely buried in sand , amidst the scattered splinters of a fir tree it had shivered to frag ments in its descent . 
The uncovered part had the appearance of a huge cylinder , caked over and its outline softened by a thick scaly dun coloured incrustation . 
It had a diameter of about thirty yards . 
He approached the mass , surprised at the size and more so at the shape , since most meteorites are rounded more or less completely . 
It was , however , still so hot from its flight through the air as to forbid his near approach . 
A stirring noise within its cylinder he ascribed to the unequal cooling of its surface for at that time it had not occurred to him that it might be hollow . 
The early morning was wonderfully still , and the sun , just clearing the pine trees towards Weybridge , was already warm . 
He did not remember hearing any birds that morning , there was certainly no breeze stirring , and the only sounds were the faint movements from within the cindery cylinder . 
He was all alone on the common . 
Then suddenly he noticed with a start that some of the grey clinker , the ashy incrustation that covered the meteorite , was falling off the circular edge of the end . 
It was dropping off in flakes and raining down upon the sand . 
A large piece suddenly came off and fell with a sharp noise that brought his heart into his mouth . 
And then he perceived that , very slowly , the circular top of the cylinder was rotating on its body . 
Even then he scarcely understood what this indicated , until he heard a muffled grating sound and saw the black mark jerk forward an inch or so . 
Then the thing came upon him in a flash . 
The cylinder was artificial hollow with an end that screwed out ! Something within the cylinder was unscrewing the top ! Good heavens ! said Ogilvy . 
The thought of the confined creature was so dreadful to him that he forgot the heat and went forward to the cylinder to help turn . 
But luckily the dull radiation arrested him before he could burn his hands on the still glowing metal . 
At that he stood irresolute for a moment , then turned , scrambled out of the pit , and set off running wildly into Woking . 
The time then must have been somewhere about six o'clock . 
He was equally unsuccessful with the potman who was just unlocking the doors of the public house by Horsell Bridge . 
The fellow thought he was a lunatic at large and made an unsuccessful attempt to shut him into the taproom . 
That sobered him a little and when he saw Henderson , the London journalist , in his garden , he called over the palings and made himself understood . 
Henderson , he called , you saw that shooting star last night ? Well ? said Henderson . 
It's out on Horsell Common now . 
Good Lord ! said Henderson . 
Fallen meteorite ! That's good . 
But it's something more than a meteorite . 
It's a cylinder an artificial cylinder , man ! And there's something inside . 
Henderson stood up with his spade in his hand . 
What's that ? he said . 
He was deaf in one ear . 
Ogilvy told him all that he had seen . 
Henderson was a minute or so taking it in . 
Then he dropped his spade , snatched up his jacket , and came out into the road . 
The two men hurried back at once to the common , and found the cylinder still lying in the same position . 
But now the sounds inside had ceased , and a thin circle of bright metal showed between the top and the body of the cylinder . 
Air was either entering or escaping at the rim with a thin , sizzling sound . 
They listened , rapped on the scaly burnt metal with a stick , and , meeting with no response , they both concluded the man or men inside must be insensible or dead . 
Of course the two were quite unable to do anything . 
They shouted consolation and promises , and went off back to the town again to get help . 
Henderson went into the railway station at once , in order to telegraph the news to London . 
The newspaper articles had prepared men's minds for the re ception of the idea . 
By eight o'clock a number of boys and unemployed men had already started for the common to see the dead men from Mars . 
That was the form the story took . 
I heard of it first from my newspaper boy about a quarter to nine when I went out to get my DAILY CHRONICLE . 
I was naturally startled , and lost no time in going out and across the Ottershaw bridge to the sand pits . 
CHAPTER THREE ON HORSELL COMMON I found a little crowd of perhaps twenty people sur rounding the huge hole in which the cylinder lay . 
I have already described the appearance of that colossal bulk , em bedded in the ground . 
The turf and gravel about it seemed charred as if by a sudden explosion . 
No doubt its impact had caused a flash of fire . 
Henderson and Ogilvy were not there . 
I think they perceived that nothing was to be done for the present , and had gone away to breakfast at Henderson's house . 
There were four or five boys sitting on the edge of the Pit , with their feet dangling , and amusing themselves until I stopped them by throwing stones at the giant mass . 
After I had spoken to them about it , they began playing at touch in and out of the group of bystanders . 
There was very little talking . 
Few of the common people in England had anything but the vaguest astronomical ideas in those days . 
Most of them were staring quietly at the big tablelike end of the cylinder , which was still as Ogilvy and Henderson had left it . 
I fancy the popular ex pectation of a heap of charred corpses was disappointed at this inanimate bulk . 
Some went away while I was there , and other people came . 
I clambered into the pit and fancied I heard a faint movement under my feet . 
The top had certainly ceased to rotate . 
It was only when I got thus close to it that the strangeness of this object was at all evident to me . 
At the first glance it was really no more exciting than an overturned carriage or a tree blown across the road . 
Not so much so , indeed . 
It looked like a rusty gas float . 
Extra terrestrial had no meaning for most of the onlookers . 
At that time it was quite clear in my own mind that the Thing had come from the planet Mars , but I judged it improbable that it contained any living creature . 
I thought the unscrewing might be automatic . 
In spite of Ogilvy , I still believed that there were men in Mars . 
Yet it was a little too large for assurance on this idea . 
I felt an impatience to see it opened . 
About eleven , as nothing seemed happening , I walked back , full of such thought , to my home in Maybury . 
But I found it difficult to get to work upon my abstract investigations . 
In the afternoon the appearance of the common had altered very much . 
The early editions of the evening papers had startled London with enormous headlines A MESSAGE RECEIVED FROM MARS . 
REMARKABLE STORY FROM WOKING , and so forth . 
In addition , Ogilvy's wire to the Astronomical Exchange had roused every observatory in the three kingdoms . 
There were half a dozen flies or more from the Woking station standing in the road by the sand pits , a basket chaise from Chobham , and a rather lordly carriage . 
Besides that , there was quite a heap of bicycles . 
It was glaringly hot , not a cloud in the sky nor a breath of wind , and the only shadow was that of the few scattered pine trees . 
The burning heather had been extinguished , but the level ground towards Ottershaw was blackened as far as one could see , and still giving off vertical streamers of smoke . 
An enterprising sweet stuff dealer in the Chobham Road had sent up his son with a barrow load of green apples and ginger beer . 
Stent was giving directions in a clear , high pitched voice . 
He was standing on the cylinder , which was now evidently much cooler his face was crimson and stream ing with perspiration , and something seemed to have irritated him . 
A large portion of the cylinder had been uncovered , though its lower end was still embedded . 
The growing crowd , he said , was becoming a serious impediment to their excavations , especially the boys . 
They wanted a light railing put up , and help to keep the people back . 
He told me that a faint stirring was occasionally still audible within the case , but that the workmen had failed to unscrew the top , as it afforded no grip to them . 
The case appeared to be enormously thick , and it was possible that the faint sounds we heard represented a noisy tumult in the interior . 
I was very glad to do as he asked , and so become one of the privileged spectators within the contemplated enclosure . 
CHAPTER FOUR THE CYLINDER OPENS When I returned to the common the sun was setting . 
Scattered groups were hurrying from the direction of Woking , and one or two persons were returning . 
The crowd about the pit had increased , and stood out black against the lemon yellow of the sky a couple of hundred people , perhaps . 
There were raised voices , and some sort of struggle appeared to be going on about the pit . 
Strange imaginings passed through my mind . 
As I drew nearer I heard Stent's voice Keep back ! Keep back ! A boy came running towards me . 
It's a movin' , he said to me as he passed a screwin' and a screwin' out . 
I'm a goin' 'ome , I am . 
I went on to the crowd . 
There were really , I should think , two or three hundred people elbowing and jostling one an other , the one or two ladies there being by no means the least active . 
He's fallen in the pit ! cried some one . 
Keep back ! said several . 
The crowd swayed a little , and I elbowed my way through . 
Every one seemed greatly excited . 
I heard a peculiar hum ming sound from the pit . 
I say ! said Ogilvy help keep these idiots back . 
The crowd had pushed him in . 
The end of the cylinder was being screwed out from within . 
Nearly two feet of shining screw projected . 
Somebody blun dered against me , and I narrowly missed being pitched onto the top of the screw . 
I turned , and as I did so the screw must have come out , for the lid of the cylinder fell upon the gravel with a ringing concussion . 
I stuck my elbow into the person behind me , and turned my head towards the Thing again . 
For a moment that circular cavity seemed perfectly black . 
I had the sunset in my eyes . 
I think everyone expected to see a man emerge possibly something a little unlike us terrestrial men , but in all essen tials a man . 
But , looking , I presently saw some thing stirring within the shadow greyish billowy movements , one above another , and then two luminous disks like eyes . 
A sudden chill came over me . 
There was a loud shriek from a woman behind . 
I half turned , keeping my eyes fixed upon the cylinder still , from which other tentacles were now projecting , and began pushing my way back from the edge of the pit . 
I saw astonishment giving place to horror on the faces of the people about me . 
I heard inarticulate exclama tions on all sides . 
There was a general movement backwards . 
I saw the shopman struggling still on the edge of the pit . 
I found myself alone , and saw the people on the other side of the pit running off , Stent among them . 
I looked again at the cylinder , and ungovernable terror gripped me . 
I stood petri fied and staring . 
A big greyish rounded bulk , the size , perhaps , of a bear , was rising slowly and painfully out of the cylinder . 
As it bulged up and caught the light , it glistened like wet leather . 
Two large dark coloured eyes were regarding me stead fastly . 
The mass that framed them , the head of the thing , was rounded , and had , one might say , a face . 
There was a mouth under the eyes , the lipless brim of which quivered and panted , and dropped saliva . 
The whole creature heaved and pulsated convulsively . 
A lank tentacular appendage gripped the edge of the cylinder , another swayed in the air . 
Those who have never seen a living Martian can scarcely imagine the strange horror of its appearance . 
There was something fungoid in the oily brown skin , something in the clumsy deliberation of the tedi ous movements unspeakably nasty . 
Even at this first en counter , this first glimpse , I was overcome with disgust and dread . 
It had toppled over the brim of the cylinder and fallen into the pit , with a thud like the fall of a great mass of leather . 
I heard it give a peculiar thick cry , and forthwith another of these creatures appeared darkly in the deep shadow of the aperture . 
There , among some young pine trees and furze bushes , I stopped , panting , and waited further developments . 
And then , with a renewed horror , I saw a round , black object bobbing up and down on the edge of the pit . 
It was the head of the shopman who had fallen in , but showing as a little black object against the hot western sun . 
Now he got his shoulder and knee up , and again he seemed to slip back until only his head was visible . 
Suddenly he van ished , and I could have fancied a faint shriek had reached me . 
I had a momentary impulse to go back and help him that my fears overruled . 
Everything was then quite invisible , hidden by the deep pit and the heap of sand that the fall of the cylinder had made . 
I remained standing knee deep in the heather , staring at the mound that hid them . 
I was a battleground of fear and curiosity . 
I did not dare to go back towards the pit , but I felt a pas sionate longing to peer into it . 
I began walking , therefore , in a big curve , seeking some point of vantage and continually looking at the sand heaps that hid these new comers to our earth . 
Evidently they shared my mental conflict . 
There were few near me . 
One man I approached he was , I perceived , a neighbour of mine , though I did not know his name and accosted . 
But it was scarcely a time for articulate conversation . 
What ugly brutes ! he said . 
Good God ! What ugly brutes ! He repeated this over and over again . 
Did you see a man in the pit ? I said but he made no answer to that . 
We became silent , and stood watching for a time side by side , deriving , I fancy , a certain comfort in one another's company . 
The sunset faded to twilight before anything further hap pened . 
The crowd far away on the left , towards Woking , seemed to grow , and I heard now a faint murmur from it . 
The little knot of people towards Chobham dispersed . 
There was scarcely an intimation of movement from the pit . 
It was this , as much as anything , that gave people courage , and I suppose the new arrivals from Woking also helped to restore confidence . 
I , too , on my side began to move towards the pit . 
Then I saw some cabmen and others had walked boldly into the sand pits , and heard the clatter of hoofs and the gride of wheels . 
I saw a lad trundling off the barrow of apples . 
Flutter , flutter , went the flag , first to the right , then to the left . 
It was too far for me to recognise anyone there , but afterwards I learned that Ogilvy , Stent , and Henderson were with others in this attempt at communication . 
At the same time a faint hissing sound became audible . 
As the green smoke arose , their faces flashed out pallid green , and faded again as it vanished . 
Then slowly the hissing passed into a humming , into a long , loud , droning noise . 
Slowly a humped shape rose out of the pit , and the ghost of a beam of light seemed to flicker out from it . 
Forthwith flashes of actual flame , a bright glare leaping from one to another , sprang from the scattered group of men . 
It was as if some invisible jet impinged upon them and flashed into white flame . 
It was as if each man were suddenly and momentarily turned to fire . 
Then , by the light of their own destruction , I saw them staggering and falling , and their supporters turning to run . 
I stood staring , not as yet realising that this was death leaping from man to man in that little distant crowd . 
All I felt was that it was something very strange . 
And far away towards Knaphill I saw the flashes of trees and hedges and wooden buildings suddenly set alight . 
It was sweeping round swiftly and steadily , this flaming death , this invisible , inevitable sword of heat . 
I perceived it coming towards me by the flashing bushes it touched , and was too astounded and stupefied to stir . 
I heard the crackle of fire in the sand pits and the sudden squeal of a horse that was as suddenly stilled . 
Something fell with a crash far away to the left where the road from Woking station opens out on the common . 
Forth with the hissing and humming ceased , and the black , dome like object sank slowly out of sight into the pit . 
All this had happened with such swiftness that I had stood motionless , dumbfounded and dazzled by the flashes of light . 
Had that death swept through a full circle , it must inevitably have slain me in my surprise . 
But it passed and spared me , and left the night about me suddenly dark and un familiar . 
The undulating common seemed now dark almost to blackness , except where its roadways lay grey and pale under the deep blue sky of the early night . 
It was dark , and sud denly void of men . 
Overhead the stars were mustering , and in the west the sky was still a pale , bright , almost greenish blue . 
The tops of the pine trees and the roofs of Horsell came out sharp and black against the western afterglow . 
The Mar tians and their appliances were altogether invisible , save for that thin mast upon which their restless mirror wobbled . 
Patches of bush and isolated trees here and there smoked and glowed still , and the houses towards Woking station were sending up spires of flame into the stillness of the evening air . 
Nothing was changed save for that and a terrible astonish ment . 
It came to me that I was upon this dark common , helpless , unprotected , and alone . 
Suddenly , like a thing falling upon me from without , came fear . 
With an effort I turned and began a stumbling run through the heather . 
The fear I felt was no rational fear , but a panic terror not only of the Martians , but of the dusk and stillness all about me . 
Such an extraordinary effect in unmanning me it had that I ran weeping silently as a child might do . 
Once I had turned , I did not dare to look back . 
CHAPTER SIX THE HEAT RAY IN THE CHOBHAM ROAD It is still a matter of wonder how the Martians are able to slay men so swiftly and so silently . 
Many think that in some way they are able to generate an intense heat in a chamber of practically absolute non conductivity . 
But no one has absolutely proved these details . 
However it is done , it is certain that a beam of heat is the essence of the matter . 
Heat , and invisible , instead of visible , light . 
The news of the massacre probably reached Chobham , Woking , and Ottershaw about the same time . 
You may figure to yourself the hum of voices along the road in the gloaming . 
There were three policemen too , one of whom was mounted , doing their best , under instructions from Stent , to keep the people back and deter them from approaching the cylinder . 
There was some booing from those more thoughtless and excitable souls to whom a crowd is always an occasion for noise and horse play . 
After that they returned to lead that ill fated advance . 
But that crowd of people had a far narrower escape than mine . 
Only the fact that a hummock of heathery sand inter cepted the lower part of the Heat Ray saved them . 
Had the elevation of the parabolic mirror been a few yards higher , none could have lived to tell the tale . 
They saw the flashes and the men falling and an invisible hand , as it were , lit the bushes as it hurried towards them through the twilight . 
In the sudden thud , hiss , and glare of the igniting trees , the panic stricken crowd seems to have swayed hesitatingly for some moments . 
Sparks and burning twigs began to fall into the road , and single leaves like puffs of flame . 
Hats and dresses caught fire . 
Then came a crying from the common . 
There were shrieks and shouts , and suddenly a mounted policeman came galloping through the confusion with his hands clasped over his head , screaming . 
They're coming ! a woman shrieked , and incontinently everyone was turning and pushing at those behind , in order to clear their way to Woking again . 
They must have bolted as blindly as a flock of sheep . 
Where the road grows narrow and black between the high banks the crowd jammed , and a desperate struggle occurred . 
CHAPTER SEVEN HOW I REACHED HOME For my own part , I remember nothing of my flight except the stress of blundering against trees and stumbling through the heather . 
All about me gathered the invisible terrors of the Martians that pitiless sword of heat seemed whirling to and fro , flourishing overhead before it descended and smote me out of life . 
I came into the road between the crossroads and Horsell , and ran along this to the crossroads . 
At last I could go no further I was exhausted with the violence of my emotion and of my flight , and I staggered and fell by the wayside . 
That was near the bridge that crosses the canal by the gasworks . 
I fell and lay still . 
I must have remained there some time . 
I sat up , strangely perplexed . 
For a moment , perhaps , I could not clearly understand how I came there . 
My terror had fallen from me like a garment . 
My hat had gone , and my collar had burst away from its fastener . 
Now it was as if something turned over , and the point of view altered abruptly . 
There was no sensible transition from one state of mind to the other . 
I was immediately the self of every day again a decent , ordinary citizen . 
The silent common , the impulse of my flight , the starting flames , were as if they had been in a dream . 
I asked myself had these latter things indeed happened ? I could not credit it . 
I rose and walked unsteadily up the steep incline of the bridge . 
My mind was blank wonder . 
My muscles and nerves seemed drained of their strength . 
I dare say I staggered drunkenly . 
A head rose over the arch , and the figure of a workman carrying a basket appeared . 
Beside him ran a little boy . 
He passed me , wishing me good night . 
I was minded to speak to him , but did not . 
I answered his greeting with a meaningless mumble and went on over the bridge . 
A dim group of people talked in the gate of one of the houses in the pretty little row of gables that was called Oriental Terrace . 
It was all so real and so familiar . 
And that behind me ! It was frantic , fantastic ! Such things , I told myself , could not be . 
Perhaps I am a man of exceptional moods . 
I do not know how far my experience is common . 
This feeling was very strong upon me that night . 
Here was another side to my dream . 
But the trouble was the blank incongruity of this serenity and the swift death flying yonder , not two miles away . 
There was a noise of business from the gasworks , and the electric lamps were all alight . 
I stopped at the group of people . 
What news from the common ? said I. There were two men and a woman at the gate . 
Eh ? said one of the men , turning . 
What news from the common ? I said . 
'Ain't yer just BEEN there ? asked the men . 
People seem fair silly about the common , said the woman over the gate . 
What's it all abart ? Haven't you heard of the men from Mars ? said I the creatures from Mars ? Quite enough , said the woman over the gate . 
Thenks and all three of them laughed . 
I felt foolish and angry . 
I tried and found I could not tell them what I had seen . 
They laughed again at my broken sentences . 
You'll hear more yet , I said , and went on to my home . 
The dinner , which was a cold one , had already been served , and remained neglected on the table while I told my story . 
There is one thing , I said , to allay the fears I had aroused they are the most sluggish things I ever saw crawl . 
They may keep the pit and kill people who come near them , but they cannot get out of it . 
But the horror of them ! Don't , dear ! said my wife , knitting her brows and putting her hand on mine . 
Poor Ogilvy ! I said . 
To think he may be lying dead there ! My wife at least did not find my experience incredible . 
When I saw how deadly white her face was , I ceased abruptly . 
They may come here , she said again and again . 
I pressed her to take wine , and tried to reassure her . 
They can scarcely move , I said . 
I began to comfort her and myself by repeating all that Ogilvy had told me of the impossibility of the Martians estab lishing themselves on the earth . 
In particular I laid stress on the gravitational difficulty . 
On the surface of the earth the force of gravity is three times what it is on the surface of Mars . 
A Martian , therefore , would weigh three times more than on Mars , albeit his muscular strength would be the same . 
His own body would be a cope of lead to him . 
That , indeed , was the general opinion . 
Both THE TIMES and the DAILY TELEGRAPH , for instance , insisted on it the next morning , and both overlooked , just as I did , two obvious modifying influ ences . 
The invigorating influences of this excess of oxygen upon the Martians indisputably did much to counterbalance the increased weight of their bodies . 
And , in the second place , we all overlooked the fact that such mechanical intelligence as the Martian possessed was quite able to dispense with muscular exertion at a pinch . 
But I did not consider these points at the time , and so my reasoning was dead against the chances of the invaders . 
With wine and food , the confidence of my own table , and the necessity of reassuring my wife , I grew by insensible degrees courageous and secure . 
They have done a foolish thing , said I , fingering my wineglass . 
They are dangerous because , no doubt , they are mad with terror . 
Perhaps they expected to find no living things certainly no intelligent living things . 
A shell in the pit said I , if the worst comes to the worst will kill them all . 
The intense excitement of the events had no doubt left my perceptive powers in a state of erethism . 
I remember that dinner table with extraordinary vividness even now . 
At the end of it I sat , temper ing nuts with a cigarette , regretting Ogilvy's rashness , and denouncing the shortsighted timidity of the Martians . 
So some respectable dodo in the Mauritius might have lorded it in his nest , and discussed the arrival of that shipful of pitiless sailors in want of animal food . 
We will peck them to death tomorrow , my dear . 
I did not know it , but that was the last civilised dinner I was to eat for very many strange and terrible days . 
Even within the five mile circle the great majority of people were inert . 
I have already described the behaviour of the men and women to whom I spoke . 
Even at Woking station and Horsell and Chobham that was the case . 
A boy from the town , trenching on Smith's monopoly , was selling papers with the afternoon's news . 
It was only round the edge of the common that any disturbance was perceptible . 
There were half a dozen villas burning on the Woking border . 
There were lights in all the houses on the common side of the three villages , and the people there kept awake till dawn . 
A curious crowd lingered restlessly , people coming and going but the crowd remaining , both on the Chobham and Horsell bridges . 
Save for such , that big area of common was silent and desolate , and the charred bodies lay about on it all night under the stars , and all the next day . 
A noise of hammering from the pit was heard by many people . 
So you have the state of things on Friday night . 
In the centre , sticking into the skin of our old planet Earth like a poisoned dart , was this cylinder . 
But the poison was scarcely working yet . 
Around it was a patch of silent common , smouldering in places , and with a few dark , dimly seen objects lying in contorted attitudes here and there . 
Here and there was a burning bush or tree . 
Beyond was a fringe of excitement , and farther than that fringe the inflammation had not crept as yet . 
In the rest of the world the stream of life still flowed as it had flowed for immemorial years . 
The fever of war that would presently clog vein and artery , deaden nerve and destroy brain , had still to develop . 
About eleven a company of soldiers came through Horsell , and deployed along the edge of the common to form a cordon . 
Later a second company marched through Chobham to deploy on the north side of the common . 
Several officers from the Inkerman barracks had been on the common earlier in the day , and one , Major Eden , was reported to be missing . 
The colonel of the regiment came to the Chobham bridge and was busy questioning the crowd at midnight . 
The military authorities were certainly alive to the seriousness of the busi ness . 
About eleven , the next morning's papers were able to say , a squadron of hussars , two Maxims , and about four hundred men of the Cardigan regiment started from Aldershot . 
A few seconds after midnight the crowd in the Chertsey road , Woking , saw a star fall from heaven into the pine woods to the northwest . 
It had a greenish colour , and caused a silent brightness like summer lightning . 
This was the second cylinder . 
CHAPTER NINE THE FIGHTING BEGINS Saturday lives in my memory as a day of suspense . 
It was a day of lassitude too , hot and close , with , I am told , a rapidly fluctuating barometer . 
I had slept but little , though my wife had succeeded in sleeping , and I rose early . 
I went into my garden before breakfast and stood listening , but towards the common there was nothing stirring but a lark . 
The milkman came as usual . 
I heard the rattle of his chariot and I went round to the side gate to ask the latest news . 
He told me that during the night the Martians had been surrounded by troops , and that guns were expected . 
Then a familiar , reassuring note I heard a train running towards Woking . 
They aren't to be killed , said the milkman , if that can possibly be avoided . 
I saw my neighbour gardening , chatted with him for a time , and then strolled in to breakfast . 
It was a most un exceptional morning . 
My neighbour was of opinion that the troops would be able to capture or to destroy the Martians during the day . 
It's a pity they make themselves so unapproachable , he said . 
It would be curious to know how they live on another planet we might learn a thing or two . 
He came up to the fence and extended a handful of straw berries , for his gardening was as generous as it was enthusi astic . 
At the same time he told me of the burning of the pine woods about the Byfleet Golf Links . 
They say , said he , that there's another of those blessed things fallen there number two . 
But one's enough , surely . 
This lot'll cost the insurance people a pretty penny before everything's settled . 
He laughed with an air of the greatest good humour as he said this . 
The woods , he said , were still burning , and pointed out a haze of smoke to me . 
They will be hot under foot for days , on account of the thick soil of pine needles and turf , he said , and then grew serious over poor Ogilvy . 
After breakfast , instead of working , I decided to walk down towards the common . 
They told me no one was allowed over the canal , and , looking along the road towards the bridge , I saw one of the Cardigan men standing sentinel there . 
I talked with these soldiers for a time I told them of my sight of the Martians on the previous evening . 
None of them had seen the Martians , and they had but the vaguest ideas of them , so that they plied me with questions . 
They said that they did not know who had authorised the movements of the troops their idea was that a dispute had arisen at the Horse Guards . 
The ordinary sapper is a great deal better educated than the common soldier , and they discussed the peculiar conditions of the possible fight with some acuteness . 
I described the Heat Ray to them , and they began to argue among themselves . 
Crawl up under cover and rush 'em , say I , said one . 
Get aht ! , said another . 
What's cover against this 'ere 'eat ? Sticks to cook yer ! What we got to do is to go as near as the ground'll let us , and then drive a trench . 
Blow yer trenches ! You always want trenches you ought to ha been born a rabbit Snippy . 
'Ain't they got any necks , then ? said a third , abruptly a little , contemplative , dark man , smoking a pipe . 
Octopuses , said he , that's what I calls 'em . 
Talk about fishers of men fighters of fish it is this time ! It ain't no murder killing beasts like that , said the first speaker . 
Why not shell the darned things strite off and finish 'em ? said the little dark man . 
You carn tell what they might do . 
Where's your shells ? said the first speaker . 
Do it in a rush , that's my tip , and do it at once . 
After a while I left them , and went on to the railway station to get as many morning papers as I could . 
But I will not weary the reader with a description of that long morning and of the longer afternoon . 
I did not succeed in getting a glimpse of the common , for even Horsell and Chobham church towers were in the hands of the military authorities . 
The soldiers I addressed didn't know anything the officers were mysterious as well as busy . 
The soldiers had made the people on the outskirts of Horsell lock up and leave their houses . 
But there was little I didn't know . 
The Martians did not show an inch of themselves . 
They seemed busy in their pit , and there was a sound of hammering and an almost continuous streamer of smoke . 
Apparently they were busy getting ready for a struggle . 
Fresh attempts have been made to signal , but without success , was the stereo typed formula of the papers . 
A sapper told me it was done by a man in a ditch with a flag on a long pole . 
The Martians took as much notice of such advances as we should of the lowing of a cow . 
I must confess the sight of all this armament , all this preparation , greatly excited me . 
My imagination became bel ligerent , and defeated the invaders in a dozen striking ways something of my schoolboy dreams of battle and heroism came back . 
It hardly seemed a fair fight to me at that time . 
They seemed very helpless in that pit of theirs . 
About three o'clock there began the thud of a gun at measured intervals from Chertsey or Addlestone . 
I learned that the smouldering pine wood into which the second cylin der had fallen was being shelled , in the hope of destroying that object before it opened . 
It was only about five , however , that a field gun reached Chobham for use against the first body of Martians . 
The pinnacle of the mosque had vanished , and the roof line of the college itself looked as if a hundred ton gun had been at work upon it . 
I and my wife stood amazed . 
Then I realised that the crest of Maybury Hill must be within range of the Martians Heat Ray now that the college was cleared out of the way . 
At that I gripped my wife's arm , and without ceremony ran her out into the road . 
Then I fetched out the servant , telling her I would go upstairs myself for the box she was clamouring for . 
We can't possibly stay here , I said and as I spoke the firing reopened for a moment upon the common . 
But where are we to go ? said my wife in terror . 
Then I remembered her cousins at Leatherhead . 
Leatherhead ! I shouted above the sudden noise . 
She looked away from me downhill . 
The people were coming out of their houses , astonished . 
How are we to get to Leatherhead ? she said . 
The sun , shining through the smoke that drove up from the tops of the trees , seemed blood red , and threw an unfamiliar lurid light upon everything . 
Stop here , said I you are safe here and I started off at once for the Spotted Dog , for I knew the landlord had a horse and dog cart . 
I ran , for I perceived that in a moment everyone upon this side of the hill would be moving . 
I found him in his bar , quite unaware of what was going on behind his house . 
A man stood with his back to me , talking to him . 
I must have a pound , said the landlord , and I've no one to drive it . 
I'll give you two , said I , over the stranger's shoulder . 
What for ? And I'll bring it back by midnight , I said . 
Lord ! said the landlord what's the hurry ? I'm selling my bit of a pig . 
Two pounds , and you bring it back ? What's going on now ? I explained hastily that I had to leave my home , and so secured the dog cart . 
At the time it did not seem to me nearly so urgent that the landlord should leave his . 
The beech trees below the house were burning while I did this , and the palings up the road glowed red . 
While I was occupied in this way , one of the dismounted hussars came running up . 
He was going from house to house , warning peo ple to leave . 
He was going on as I came out of my front door , lugging my treasures , done up in a tablecloth . 
A sudden whirl of black smoke driving across the road hid him for a moment . 
I ran to my neighbour's door and rapped to satisfy myself of what I already knew , that his wife had gone to London with him and had locked up their house . 
In another moment we were clear of the smoke and noise , and spanking down the opposite slope of Maybury Hill towards Old Woking . 
In front was a quiet sunny landscape , a wheat field ahead on either side of the road , and the Maybury Inn with its swinging sign . 
I saw the doctor's cart ahead of me . 
At the bottom of the hill I turned my head to look at the hillside I was leaving . 
Thick streamers of black smoke shot with threads of red fire were driving up into the still air , and throwing dark shadows upon the green treetops eastward . 
The smoke already extended far away to the east and west to the By fleet pine woods eastward , and to Woking on the west . 
The road was dotted with people running towards us . 
Apparently the Mar tians were setting fire to everything within range of their Heat Ray . 
I am not an expert driver , and I had immediately to turn my attention to the horse . 
When I looked back again the second hill had hidden the black smoke . 
I slashed the horse with the whip , and gave him a loose rein until Woking and Send lay between us and that quivering tumult . 
I overtook and passed the doctor between Woking and Send . 
CHAPTER TEN IN THE STORM Leatherhead is about twelve miles from Maybury Hill . 
The scent of hay was in the air through the lush meadows beyond Pyrford , and the hedges on either side were sweet and gay with multitudes of dog roses . 
The heavy firing that had broken out while we were driving down Maybury Hill ceased as abruptly as it began , leaving the evening very peace ful and still . 
We got to Leatherhead without misadventure about nine o'clock , and the horse had an hour's rest while I took supper with my cousins and commended my wife to their care . 
My wife was curiously silent throughout the drive , and seemed oppressed with forebodings of evil . 
Had it not been for my promise to the innkeeper , she would , I think , have urged me to stay in Leatherhead that night . 
Would that I had ! Her face , I remember , was very white as we parted . 
For my own part , I had been feverishly excited all day . 
I was even afraid that that last fusillade I had heard might mean the extermination of our invaders from Mars . 
I can best express my state of mind by saying that I wanted to be in at the death . 
It was nearly eleven when I started to return . 
Overhead the clouds were driving fast , albeit not a breath stirred the shrubs about us . 
My cousins' man lit both lamps . 
Happily , I knew the road intimately . 
My wife stood in the light of the doorway , and watched me until I jumped up into the dog cart . 
Then abruptly she turned and went in , leaving my cousins side by side wishing me good hap . 
I was a little depressed at first with the contagion of my wife's fears , but very soon my thoughts reverted to the Martians . 
At that time I was absolutely in the dark as to the course of the evening's fighting . 
I did not know even the circumstances that had precipitated the conflict . 
I saw along the western horizon a blood red glow , which as I drew nearer , crept slowly up the sky . 
The driving clouds of the gathering thunder storm mingled there with masses of black and red smoke . 
They said nothing to me as I passed . 
From Ripley until I came through Pyrford I was in the valley of the Wey , and the red glare was hidden from me . 
As I ascended the little hill beyond Pyrford Church the glare came into view again , and the trees about me shivered with the first intimation of the storm that was upon me . 
Then I heard midnight pealing out from Pyrford Church behind me , and then came the silhouette of Maybury Hill , with its tree tops and roofs black and sharp against the red . 
Even as I beheld this a lurid green glare lit the road about me and showed the distant woods towards Addlestone . 
I felt a tug at the reins . 
I saw that the driving clouds had been pierced as it were by a thread of green fire , suddenly lighting their confusion and falling into the field to my left . 
The horse took the bit between his teeth and bolted . 
A moderate incline runs towards the foot of Maybury Hill , and down this we clattered . 
Once the lightning had begun , it went on in as rapid a succession of flashes as I have ever seen . 
The thunderclaps , treading one on the heels of another and with a strange crackling accompaniment , sounded more like the working of a gigantic electric machine than the usual detonating reverberations . 
The flickering light was blinding and confusing , and a thin hail smote gustily at my face as I drove down the slope . 
At first I regarded little but the road before me , and then abruptly my attention was arrested by something that was moving rapidly down the opposite slope of Maybury Hill . 
At first I took it for the wet roof of a house , but one flash following another showed it to be in swift rolling movement . 
Can you imagine a milking stool tilted and bowled violently along the ground ? That was the impression those instant flashes gave . 
But instead of a milking stool imagine it a great body of machinery on a tripod stand . 
And I was galloping hard to meet it ! At the sight of the second monster my nerve went altogether . 
I crawled out almost immediately , and crouched , my feet still in the water , under a clump of furze . 
and by the lightning flashes I saw the black bulk of the overturned dog cart and the silhouette of the wheel still spinning slowly . 
In another moment the colossal mechanism went striding by me , and passed uphill towards Pyrford . 
Seen nearer , the Thing was incredibly strange , for it was no mere insensate machine driving on its way . 
swinging and rattling about its strange body . 
It picked its road as it went striding along , and the brazen hood that surmounted it moved to and fro with the inevitable suggestion of a head looking about . 
And in an instant it was gone . 
So much I saw then , all vaguely for the flickering of the lightning , in blinding highlights and dense black shadows . 
I have no doubt this Thing in the field was the third of the ten cylinders they had fired at us from Mars . 
For some minutes I lay there in the rain and darkness watching , by the intermittent light , these monstrous beings of metal moving about in the distance over the hedge tops . 
A thin hail was now beginning , and as it came and went their figures grew misty and then flashed into clearness again . 
Now and then came a gap in the lightning , and the night swallowed them up . 
I was soaked with hail above and puddle water below . 
It was some time before my blank astonishment would let me struggle up the bank to a drier position , or think at all of my imminent peril . 
Not far from me was a little one roomed squatter's hut of wood , surrounded by a patch of potato garden . 
I struggled to my feet at last , and , crouching and making use of every chance of cover , I made a run for this . 
Under cover of this I pushed on , wet and shivering now , towards my own house . 
I walked among the trees trying to find the footpath . 
I had a vague idea of going on to my own house , and that was as much motive as I had . 
I staggered through the trees , fell into a ditch and bruised my knees against a plank , and finally splashed out into the lane that ran down from the College Arms . 
I say splashed , for the storm water was sweeping the sand down the hill in a muddy torrent . 
There in the darkness a man blundered into me and sent me reeling back . 
He gave a cry of terror , sprang sideways , and rushed on before I could gather my wits sufficiently to speak to him . 
So heavy was the stress of the storm just at this place that I had the hardest task to win my way up the hill . 
I went close up to the fence on the left and worked my way along its palings . 
Near the top I stumbled upon something soft , and , by a flash of lightning , saw between my feet a heap of black broad cloth and a pair of boots . 
Before I could distinguish clearly how the man lay , the flicker of light had passed . 
I stood over him waiting for the next flash . 
Overcoming the repugnance natural to one who had never before touched a dead body , I stooped and turned him over to feel for his heart . 
Apparently his neck had been broken . 
The lightning flashed for a third time , and his face leaped upon me . 
I sprang to my feet . 
It was the landlord of the Spotted Dog , whose conveyance I had taken . 
I stepped over him gingerly and pushed on up the hill . 
I made my way by the police station and the College Arms towards my own house . 
Nothing was burning on the hillside , though from the common there still came a red glare and a rolling tumult of ruddy smoke beating up against the drench ing hail . 
So far as I could see by the flashes , the houses about me were mostly uninjured . 
By the College Arms a dark heap lay in the road . 
Down the road towards Maybury Bridge there were voices and the sound of feet , but I had not the courage to shout or to go to them . 
I let myself in with my latchkey , closed , locked and bolted the door , staggered to the foot of the staircase , and sat down . 
My imagination was full of those striding metallic monsters , and of the dead body smashed against the fence . 
I crouched at the foot of the staircase with my back to the wall , shivering violently . 
CHAPTER ELEVEN AT THE WINDOW I have already said that my storms of emotion have a trick of exhausting themselves . 
After a time I discovered that I was cold and wet , and with little pools of water about me on the stair carpet . 
I got up almost mechanically , went into the dining room and drank some whiskey , and then I was moved to change my clothes . 
After I had done that I went upstairs to my study , but why I did so I do not know . 
The window of my study looks over the trees and the railway towards Horsell Common . 
In the hurry of our departure this window had been left open . 
The passage was dark , and , by contrast with the picture the window frame enclosed , the side of the room seemed im penetrably dark . 
I stopped short in the doorway . 
Across the light huge black shapes , gro tesque and strange , moved busily to and fro . 
Every now and then a haze of smoke from some nearer conflagra tion drove across the window and hid the Martian shapes . 
I could not see what they were doing , nor the clear form of them , nor recognise the black objects they were busied upon . 
Neither could I see the nearer fire , though the reflections of it danced on the wall and ceiling of the study . 
A sharp , resinous tang of burning was in the air . 
I closed the door noiselessly and crept towards the window . 
The light upon the railway puzzled me at first there were a black heap and a vivid glare , and to the right of that a row of yellow oblongs . 
Then I perceived this was a wrecked train , the fore part smashed and on fire , the hinder carriages still upon the rails . 
It was the strangest spectacle , that black expanse set with fire . 
It reminded me , more than anything else , of the Potteries at night . 
At first I could distinguish no people at all , though I peered intently for them . 
Later I saw against the light of Woking station a number of black figures hurrying one after the other across the line . 
I began to ask myself what they could be . 
Were they intelligent mechanisms ? Such a thing I felt was impossible . 
I heard a slight scraping at the fence , and rousing myself from the lethargy that had fallen upon me , I looked down and saw him dimly , clambering over the palings . 
At the sight of another human being my torpor passed , and I leaned out of the window eagerly . 
Hist ! said I , in a whisper . 
He stopped astride of the fence in doubt . 
Then he came over and across the lawn to the corner of the house . 
He bent down and stepped softly . 
Who's there ? he said , also whispering , standing under the window and peering up . 
Where are you going ? I asked . 
Are you trying to hide ? That's it . 
Come into the house , I said . 
I went down , unfastened the door , and let him in , and locked the door again . 
I could not see his face . 
He was hatless , and his coat was unbuttoned . 
My God ! he said , as I drew him in . 
What has happened ? I asked . 
What hasn't ? In the obscurity I could see he made a gesture of despair . 
They wiped us out simply wiped us out , he repeated again and again . 
He followed me , almost mechanically , into the dining room . 
Take some whiskey , I said , pouring out a stiff dose . 
It was a long time before he could steady his nerves to answer my questions , and then he answered perplexingly and brokenly . 
He was a driver in the artillery , and had only come into action about seven . 
At that time firing was going on across the common , and it was said the first party of Martians were crawling slowly towards their second cylinder under cover of a metal shield . 
Later this shield staggered up on tripod legs and became the first of the fighting machines I had seen . 
The gun he drove had been unlimbered near Horsell , in order to com mand the sand pits , and its arrival it was that had precipi tated the action . 
As the limber gunners went to the rear , his horse trod in a rabbit hole and came down , throwing him into a depression of the ground . 
I lay still , he said , scared out of my wits , with the fore quarter of a horse atop of me . 
And the smell good God ! Like burnt meat ! I was hurt across the back by the fall of the horse , and there I had to lie until I felt better . 
Just like parade it had been a minute before then stumble , bang , swish ! Wiped out ! he said . 
He had hid under the dead horse for a long time , peeping out furtively across the common . 
The Cardigan men had tried a rush , in skirmishing order , at the pit , simply to be swept out of existence . 
A kind of arm carried a complicated metallic case , about which green flashes scintillated , and out of the funnel of this there smoked the Heat Ray . 
The hussars had been on the road beyond the curvature of the ground , and he saw nothing of them . 
He heard the Martians rattle for a time and then become still . 
Then the Thing shut off the Heat Ray , and turning its back upon the artillery man , began to waddle away towards the smouldering pine woods that sheltered the second cylinder . 
As it did so a second glittering Titan built itself up out of the pit . 
The second monster followed the first , and at that the artilleryman began to crawl very cautiously across the hot heather ash towards Horsell . 
He managed to get alive into the ditch by the side of the road , and so escaped to Woking . 
There his story became ejaculatory . 
It seems there were a few people alive there , frantic for the most part and many burned and scalded . 
He was turned aside by the fire , and hid among some almost scorching heaps of broken wall as one of the Martian giants returned . 
He saw this one pursue a man , catch him up in one of its steely tentacles , and knock his head against the trunk of a pine tree . 
At last , after nightfall , the artilleryman made a rush for it and got over the railway embankment . 
Since then he had been skulking along towards Maybury , in the hope of getting out of danger Londonward . 
People were hiding in trenches and cellars , and many of the survivors had made off towards Woking village and Send . 
He had been consumed with thirst until he found one of the water mains near the railway arch smashed , and the water bubbling out like a spring upon the road . 
That was the story I got from him , bit by bit . 
He grew calmer telling me and trying to make me see the things he had seen . 
He had eaten no food since midday , he told me early in his narrative , and I found some mutton and bread in the pantry and brought it into the room . 
We lit no lamp for fear of attracting the Martians , and ever and again our hands would touch upon bread or meat . 
As he talked , things about us came darkly out of the darkness , and the trampled bushes and broken rose trees outside the window grew dis tinct . 
It would seem that a number of men or animals had rushed across the lawn . 
I began to see his face , blackened and haggard , as no doubt mine was also . 
When we had finished eating we went softly upstairs to my study , and I looked again out of the open window . 
In one night the valley had become a valley of ashes . 
The fires had dwindled now . 
Yet here and there some object had had the luck to escape a white railway signal here , the end of a greenhouse there , white and fresh amid the wreckage . 
Never before in the history of warfare had destruction been so indiscriminate and so universal . 
And shining with the growing light of the east , three of the metallic giants stood about the pit , their cowls rotating as though they were surveying the desolation they had made . 
Beyond were the pillars of fire about Chobham . 
They became pillars of bloodshot smoke at the first touch of day . 
The artilleryman agreed with me that the house was no place to stay in . 
He proposed , he said , to make his way Londonward , and thence rejoin his battery No. , of the Horse Artillery . 
For I already perceived clearly that the country about London must inevitably be the scene of a disastrous struggle before such creatures as these could be destroyed . 
Between us and Leatherhead , however , lay the third cylin der , with its guarding giants . 
Had I been alone , I think I should have taken my chance and struck across country . 
Thence I would make a big detour by Epsom to reach Leatherhead . 
I should have started at once , but my companion had been in active service and he knew better than that . 
He made me ransack the house for a flask , which he filled with whiskey and we lined every available pocket with packets of biscuits and slices of meat . 
Then we crept out of the house , and ran as quickly as we could down the ill made road by which I had come overnight . 
At the corner turning up towards the post office a little cart , filled with boxes and furniture , and horseless , heeled over on a broken wheel . 
A cash box had been hastily smashed open and thrown under the debris . 
Except the lodge at the Orphanage , which was still on fire , none of the houses had suffered very greatly here . 
The Heat Ray had shaved the chimney tops and passed . 
Yet , save our selves , there did not seem to be a living soul on Maybury Hill . 
The majority of the inhabitants had escaped , I suppose , by way of the Old Woking road the road I had taken when I drove to Leatherhead or they had hidden . 
We went down the lane , by the body of the man in black , sodden now from the overnight hail , and broke into the woods at the foot of the hill . 
We pushed through these towards the railway without meeting a soul . 
On our side the fire had done no more than scorch the nearer trees it had failed to secure its footing . 
Hard by was a tem porary hut , deserted . 
There was not a breath of wind this morning , and everything was strangely still . 
Even the birds were hushed , and as we hurried along I and the artilleryman talked in whispers and looked now and again over our shoulders . 
Once or twice we stopped to listen . 
After a time we drew near the road , and as we did so we heard the clatter of hoofs and saw through the tree stems three cavalry soldiers riding slowly towards Woking . 
We hailed them , and they halted while we hurried towards them . 
It was a lieutenant and a couple of privates of the th Hus sars , with a stand like a theodolite , which the artilleryman told me was a heliograph . 
You are the first men I've seen coming this way this morn ing , said the lieutenant . 
What's brewing ? His voice and face were eager . 
The men behind him stared curiously . 
The artilleryman jumped down the bank into the road and saluted . 
Gun destroyed last night , sir . 
Trying to rejoin battery , sir . 
You'll come in sight of the Martians , I expect , about half a mile along this road . 
What the dickens are they like ? asked the lieutenant . 
Giants in armour , sir . 
Three legs and a body like 'luminium , with a mighty great head in a hood , sir . 
Get out ! said the lieutenant . 
What confounded non sense ! You'll see , sir . 
They carry a kind of box , sir , that shoots fire and strikes you dead . 
What d'ye mean a gun ? No , sir , and the artilleryman began a vivid account of the Heat Ray . 
Halfway through , the lieutenant interrupted him and looked up at me . 
I was still standing on the bank by the side of the road . 
It's perfectly true , I said . 
Well , said the lieutenant , I suppose it's my business to see it too . 
Look here to the artilleryman we're detailed here clearing people out of their houses . 
You'd better go along and report yourself to Brigadier General Marvin , and tell him all you know . 
Know the way ? I do , I said and he turned his horse southward again . 
Half a mile , you say ? said he . 
At most , I answered , and pointed over the treetops south ward . 
He thanked me and rode on , and we saw them no more . 
Farther along we came upon a group of three women and two children in the road , busy clearing out a labourer's cot tage . 
They had got hold of a little hand truck , and were piling it up with unclean looking bundles and shabby furniture . 
They were all too assiduously engaged to talk to us as we passed . 
By Byfleet station we emerged from the pine trees , and found the country calm and peaceful under the morning sun light . 
The gunners stood by the guns waiting , and the ammunition waggons were at a business like distance . 
The men stood almost as if under inspection . 
That's good ! said I. They will get one fair shot , at any rate . 
The artilleryman hesitated at the gate . 
I shall go on , he said . 
Farther on towards Weybridge , just over the bridge , there were a number of men in white fatigue jackets throwing up a long rampart , and more guns behind . 
It's bows and arrows against the lightning , anyhow , said the artilleryman . 
They 'aven't seen that fire beam yet . 
The officers who were not actively engaged stood and stared over the treetops southwestward , and the men digging would stop every now and again to stare in the same direc tion . 
Byfleet was in a tumult people packing , and a score of hussars , some of them dismounted , some on horseback , were hunting them about . 
Three or four black government wag gons , with crosses in white circles , and an old omnibus , among other vehicles , were being loaded in the village street . 
There were scores of people , most of them sufficiently sabbatical to have assumed their best clothes . 
The soldiers were having the greatest difficulty in making them realise the gravity of their position . 
We saw one shrivelled old fellow with a huge box and a score or more of flower pots containing orchids , angrily expostulating with the corporal who would leave them behind . 
I stopped and gripped his arm . 
Do you know what's over there ? I said , pointing at the pine tops that hid the Martians . 
Eh ? said he , turning . 
I was explainin these is vallyble . 
Death is coming ! Death ! and leaving him to digest that if he could , I hurried on after the artillery man . 
At the corner I looked back . 
The soldier had left him , and he was still standing by his box , with the pots of orchids on the lid of it , and staring vaguely over the trees . 
No one in Weybridge could tell us where the headquarters were established the whole place was in such confusion as I had never seen in any town before . 
Carts , carriages every where , the most astonishing miscellany of conveyances and horseflesh . 
In the midst of it all the worthy vicar was very pluckily holding an early celebra tion , and his bell was jangling out above the excitement . 
I and the artilleryman , seated on the step of the drinking fountain , made a very passable meal upon what we had brought with us . 
Patrols of soldiers here no longer hussars , but grenadiers in white were warning people to move now or to take refuge in their cellars as soon as the firing began . 
We saw as we crossed the railway bridge that a growing crowd of people had assembled in and about the railway station , and the swarming platform was piled with boxes and packages . 
We remained at Weybridge until midday , and at that hour we found ourselves at the place near Shepperton Lock where the Wey and Thames join . 
Part of the time we spent helping two old women to pack a little cart . 
The Wey has a treble mouth , and at this point boats are to be hired , and there was a ferry across the river . 
On the Shepperton side was an inn with a lawn , and beyond that the tower of Shepperton Church it has been replaced by a spire rose above the trees . 
Here we found an excited and noisy crowd of fugitives . 
As yet the flight had not grown to a panic , but there were already far more people than all the boats going to and fro could enable to cross . 
People came panting along under heavy bur dens one husband and wife were even carrying a small out house door between them , with some of their household goods piled thereon . 
One man told us he meant to try to get away from Shepperton station . 
There was a lot of shouting , and one man was even jesting . 
The idea people seemed to have here was that the Martians were simply formidable human beings , who might attack and sack the town , to be certainly destroyed in the end . 
Every now and then people would glance nervously across the Wey , at the meadows towards Chertsey , but everything over there was still . 
Across the Thames , except just where the boats landed , everything was quiet , in vivid contrast with the Surrey side . 
The people who landed there from the boats went tramping off down the lane . 
The big ferryboat had just made a journey . 
Three or four soldiers stood on the lawn of the inn , staring and jesting at the fugitives , without offering to help . 
The inn was closed , as it was now within prohibited hours . 
What's that ? cried a boatman , and Shut up , you fool ! said a man near me to a yelping dog . 
Then the sound came again , this time from the direction of Chertsey , a muffled thud the sound of a gun . 
Almost immediately unseen batteries across the river to our right , unseen because of the trees , took up the chorus , firing heavily one after the other . 
Everyone stood arrested by the sudden stir of battle , near us and yet invisible to us . 
Nothing was to be seen save flat meadows , cows feeding unconcernedly for the most part , and silvery pollard willows motionless in the warm sunlight . 
The sojers'll stop 'em , said a woman beside me , doubt fully . 
A haziness rose over the treetops . 
Here they are ! shouted a man in a blue jersey . 
Little cowled figures they seemed at first , going with a rolling motion and as fast as flying birds . 
Then , advancing obliquely towards us , came a fifth . 
Their armoured bodies glittered in the sun as they swept swiftly forward upon the guns , growing rapidly larger as they drew nearer . 
At sight of these strange , swift , and terrible creatures the crowd near the water's edge seemed to me to be for a moment horror struck . 
There was no screaming or shouting , but a silence . 
Then a hoarse murmur and a movement of feet a splashing from the water . 
A man , too frightened to drop the portmanteau he carried on his shoulder , swung round and sent me staggering with a blow from the corner of his burden . 
A woman thrust at me with her hand and rushed past me . 
I turned with the rush of the people , but I was not too terrified for thought . 
The terrible Heat Ray was in my mind . 
To get under water ! That was it ! Get under water ! I shouted , unheeded . 
I faced about again , and rushed towards the approaching Martian , rushed right down the gravelly beach and headlong into the water . 
A boatload of people putting back came leaping out as I rushed past . 
The stones under my feet were muddy and slippery , and the river was so low that I ran perhaps twenty feet scarcely waist deep . 
Then , as the Martian towered overhead scarcely a couple of hundred yards away , I flung myself forward under the sur face . 
The splashes of the people in the boats leaping into the river sounded like thunderclaps in my ears . 
People were landing hastily on both sides of the river . 
In another moment it was on the bank , and in a stride wad ing halfway across . 
The knees of its foremost legs bent at the farther bank , and in another moment it had raised itself to its full height again , close to the village of Shepperton . 
Forthwith the six guns which , unknown to anyone on the right bank , had been hidden behind the outskirts of that village , fired simultaneously . 
The sudden near concussion , the last close upon the first , made my heart jump . 
The monster was already raising the case generating the Heat Ray as the first shell burst six yards above the hood . 
I gave a cry of astonishment . 
I saw and thought nothing of the other four Martian monsters my attention was riveted upon the nearer incident . 
Simultaneously two other shells burst in the air near the body as the hood twisted round in time to receive , but not in time to dodge , the fourth shell . 
The shell burst clean in the face of the Thing . 
The hood bulged , flashed , was whirled off in a dozen tattered frag ments of red flesh and glittering metal . 
Hit ! shouted I , with something between a scream and a cheer . 
I heard answering shouts from the people in the water about me . 
I could have leaped out of the water with that momentary exultation . 
The decapitated colossus reeled like a drunken giant but it did not fall over . 
It drove along in a straight line , incapable of guidance . 
A violent explosion shook the air , and a spout of water , steam , mud , and shattered metal shot far up into the sky . 
As the camera of the Heat Ray hit the water , the latter had immediately flashed into steam . 
In another moment a huge wave , like a muddy tidal bore but almost scaldingly hot , came sweeping round the bend upstream . 
I saw people struggling shorewards , and heard their screaming and shouting faintly above the seething and roar of the Martian's collapse . 
For a moment I heeded nothing of the heat , forgot the patent need of self preservation . 
I splashed through the tu multuous water , pushing aside a man in black to do so , until I could see round the bend . 
Half a dozen deserted boats pitched aimlessly upon the confusion of the waves . 
The fallen Martian came into sight downstream , lying across the river , and for the most part submerged . 
Enormous quantities of a ruddy brown fluid were spurting up in noisy jets out of the machine . 
My attention was diverted from this death flurry by a furious yelling , like that of the thing called a siren in our manufacturing towns . 
A man , knee deep near the towing path , shouted inaudibly to me and pointed . 
Looking back , I saw the other Martians advancing with gigantic strides down the riverbank from the direction of Chertsey . 
The Shepperton guns spoke this time unavailingly . 
At that I ducked at once under water , and , holding my breath until movement was an agony , blundered painfully ahead under the surface as long as I could . 
The water was in a tumult about me , and rapidly growing hotter . 
Then I saw them dimly , colossal figures of grey , magnified by the mist . 
They had passed by me , and two were stooping over the frothing , tu multuous ruins of their comrade . 
The third and fourth stood beside him in the water , one perhaps two hundred yards from me , the other towards Lale ham . 
The generators of the Heat Rays waved high , and the hissing beams smote down this way and that . 
The nearer houses still stood intact , awaiting their fate , shadowy , faint and pallid in the steam , with the fire behind them going to and fro . 
For a moment perhaps I stood there , breast high in the almost boiling water , dumbfounded at my position , hopeless of escape . 
Then suddenly the white flashes of the Heat Ray came leaping towards me . 
The houses caved in as they dissolved at its touch , and darted out flames the trees changed to fire with a roar . 
It swept across the river to Shepperton , and the water in its track rose in a boiling weal crested with steam . 
In another moment the huge wave , well nigh at the boiling point had rushed upon me . 
I screamed aloud , and scalded , half blinded , agonised , I staggered through the leaping , hiss ing water towards the shore . 
Had my foot stumbled , it would have been the end . 
I fell helplessly , in full sight of the Mar tians , upon the broad , bare gravelly spit that runs down to mark the angle of the Wey and Thames . 
I expected nothing but death . 
And then , very slowly , I realised that by a miracle I had escaped . 
But they were in no hurry . 
Cylinder followed cylinder on its interplanetary flight every twenty four hours brought them reinforcement . 
And meanwhile the military and naval authorities , now fully alive to the tremendous power of their antagonists , worked with furious energy . 
I followed the river , because I considered that the water gave me my best chance of escape should these giants return . 
The hot water from the Martian's overthrow drifted down stream with me , so that for the best part of a mile I could see little of either bank . 
Once , however , I made out a string of black figures hurrying across the meadows from the direction of Weybridge . 
Halliford , it seemed , was deserted , and sev eral of the houses facing the river were on fire . 
Never before had I seen houses burning without the accompaniment of an obstructive crowd . 
A little farther on the dry reeds up the bank were smoking and glowing , and a line of fire inland was marching steadily across a late field of hay . 
For a long time I drifted , so painful and weary was I after the violence I had been through , and so intense the heat upon the water . 
Then my fears got the better of me again , and I resumed my paddling . 
The sun scorched my bare back . 
I suppose the time was then about four or five o'clock . 
I got up presently , walked perhaps half a mile with out meeting a soul , and then lay down again in the shadow of a hedge . 
I seem to remember talking , wanderingly , to myself during that last spurt . 
I was also very thirsty , and bitterly regretful I had drunk no more water . 
It is a curious thing that I felt angry with my wife I cannot account for it , but my impotent desire to reach Leatherhead worried me excessively . 
I do not clearly remember the arrival of the curate , so that probably I dozed . 
I became aware of him as a seated figure in soot smudged shirt sleeves , and with his upturned , clean shaven face staring at a faint flickering that danced over the sky . 
The sky was what is called a mackerel sky rows and rows of faint down plumes of cloud , just tinted with the midsummer sunset . 
I sat up , and at the rustle of my motion he looked at me quickly . 
Have you any water ? I asked abruptly . 
You have been asking for water for the last hour , he said . 
For a moment we were silent , taking stock of each other . 
I dare say he found me a strange enough figure , naked , save for my water soaked trousers and socks , scalded , and my face and shoulders blackened by the smoke . 
He spoke abruptly , looking vacantly away from me . 
What does it mean ? he said . 
What do these things mean ? I stared at him and made no answer . 
He extended a thin white hand and spoke in almost a complaining tone . 
He gripped his knees and turned to look at me again . 
For half a minute , perhaps , he stared silently . 
I was walking through the roads to clear my brain , he said . 
And suddenly fire , earthquake , death ! He relapsed into silence , with his chin now sunken almost to his knees . 
Presently he began waving his hand . 
All the work all the Sunday schools What have we done what has Weybridge done ? Everything gone every thing destroyed . 
The church ! We rebuilt it only three years ago . 
Gone ! Swept out of existence ! Why ? Another pause , and he broke out again like one de mented . 
The smoke of her burning goeth up for ever and ever ! he shouted . 
His eyes flamed , and he pointed a lean finger in the direc tion of Weybridge . 
By this time I was beginning to take his measure . 
The tremendous tragedy in which he had been involved it was evident he was a fugitive from Weybridge had driven him to the very verge of his reason . 
Are we far from Sunbury ? I said , in a matter of fact tone . 
What are we to do ? he asked . 
You must keep your head . 
Plentiful hope for all this destruction ! I began to explain my view of our position . 
He listened at first , but as I went on the interest dawning in his eyes gave place to their former stare , and his regard wandered from me . 
This must be the beginning of the end , he said , inter rupting me . 
I ceased my laboured reasoning , struggled to my feet , and , standing over him , laid my hand on his shoulder . 
For a time he sat in blank silence . 
But how can we escape ? he asked , suddenly . 
They are invulnerable , they are pitiless . 
Neither the one nor , perhaps , the other , I answered . 
And the mightier they are the more sane and wary should we be . 
One of them was killed yonder not three hours ago . 
Killed ! he said , staring about him . 
How can God's min isters be killed ? I saw it happen . 
I proceeded to tell him . 
We have chanced to come in for the thick of it , said I , and that is all . 
What is that flicker in the sky ? he asked abruptly . 
I told him it was the heliograph signalling that it was the sign of human help and effort in the sky . 
We are in the midst of it , I said , quiet as it is . 
That flicker in the sky tells of the gathering storm . 
Pres ently the Martians will be coming this way again . 
And even as I spoke he sprang to his feet and stopped me by a gesture . 
From beyond the low hills across the water came the dull resonance of distant guns and a remote weird crying . 
A cockchafer came droning over the hedge and past us . 
High in the west the crescent moon hung faint and pale above the smoke of Weybridge and Shepper ton and the hot , still splendour of the sunset . 
We had better follow this path , I said , northward . 
CHAPTER FOURTEEN IN LONDON My younger brother was in London when the Martians fell at Woking . 
He was a medical student working for an imminent examination , and he heard nothing of the arrival until Saturday morning . 
The Martians , alarmed by the approach of a crowd , had killed a number of people with a quick firing gun , so the story ran . 
Probably this is due to the relative strength of the earth's gravitational energy . 
On that last text their leader writer expanded very comfortingly . 
The afternoon papers puffed scraps of news under big headlines . 
They had nothing to tell beyond the movements of troops about the common , and the burning of the pine woods between Woking and Weybridge , until eight . 
JAMES'S GAZETTE , in an extra special edition , announced the bare fact of the interruption of telegraphic communica tion . 
This was thought to be due to the falling of burning pine trees across the line . 
Nothing more of the fighting was known that night , the night of my drive to Leatherhead and back . 
My brother felt no anxiety about us , as he knew from the description in the papers that the cylinder was a good two miles from my house . 
He made up his mind to run down that night to me , in order , as he says , to see the Things before they were killed . 
He despatched a telegram , which never reached me , about four o'clock , and spent the evening at a music hall . 
In London , also , on Saturday night there was a thunder storm , and my brother reached Waterloo in a cab . 
On the platform from which the midnight train usually starts he learned , after some waiting , that an accident prevented trains from reaching Woking that night . 
The nature of the accident he could not ascertain indeed , the railway authorities did not clearly know at that time . 
They were busy making the necessary arrange ments to alter the route of the Southampton and Portsmouth Sunday League excursions . 
A nocturnal newspaper reporter , mistaking my brother for the traffic manager , to whom he bears a slight resemblance , waylaid and tried to interview him . 
Few people , excepting the railway officials , connected the breakdown with the Martians . 
I have read , in another account of these events , that on Sunday morning all London was electrified by the news from Woking . 
As a matter of fact , there was nothing to justify that very extravagant phrase . 
Plenty of Londoners did not hear of the Martians until the panic of Monday morn ing . 
Those who did took some time to realise all that the hastily worded telegrams in the Sunday papers conveyed . 
The majority of people in London do not read Sunday papers . 
Maxims have been absolutely useless against their armour the field guns have been disabled by them . 
Flying hussars have been galloping into Chertsey . 
The Martians appear to be moving slowly towards Chertsey or Windsor . 
Great anxiety prevails in West Surrey , and earthworks are being thrown up to check the advance Londonward . 
That was how the Sunday SUN put it , and a clever and remarkably prompt handbook article in the REFEREE compared the affair to a menagerie suddenly let loose in a village . 
None of the telegrams could have been written by an eye witness of their advance . 
The Sunday papers printed separate editions as further news came to hand , some even in default of it . 
But there was practically nothing more to tell people until late in the afternoon , when the authorities gave the press agencies the news in their possession . 
It was stated that the people of Walton and Weybridge , and all the district were pouring along the roads Londonward , and that was all . 
My brother went to church at the Foundling Hospital in the morning , still in ignorance of what had happened on the previous night . 
There he heard allusions made to the invasion , and a special prayer for peace . 
Coming out , he bought a REFEREE . 
He became alarmed at the news in this , and went again to Waterloo station to find out if communication were restored . 
The omnibuses , carriages , cyclists , and innumerable people walking in their best clothes seemed scarcely affected by the strange intelligence that the news venders were dis seminating . 
People were interested , or , if alarmed , alarmed only on account of the local residents . 
At the station he heard for the first time that the Windsor and Chertsey lines were now interrupted . 
The porters told him that several remark able telegrams had been received in the morning from Byfleet and Chertsey stations , but that these had abruptly ceased . 
My brother could get very little precise detail out of them . 
There's fighting going on about Weybridge was the extent of their information . 
The train service was now very much disorganised . 
Quite a number of people who had been expecting friends from places on the South Western network were standing about the station . 
One grey headed old gentleman came and abused the South Western Company bitterly to my brother . 
It wants showing up , he said . 
A man in a blue and white blazer addressed my brother , full of strange tidings . 
There's hosts of people driving into Kingston in traps and carts and things , with boxes of valuables and all that , he said . 
We heard guns firing at Hampton Court station , but we thought it was thunder . 
What the dickens does it all mean ? The Martians can't get out of their pit , can they ? My brother could not tell him . 
Every one connected with the terminus seemed ill tempered . 
These were the guns that were brought up from Woolwich and Chatham to cover Kingston . 
There was an exchange of pleasantries You'll get eaten ! We're the beast tamers ! and so forth . 
A little while after that a squad of police came into the station and began to clear the public off the platforms , and my brother went out into the street again . 
The church bells were ringing for evensong , and a squad of Salvation Army lassies came singing down Waterloo Road . 
On the bridge a number of loafers were watching a curious brown scum that came drifting down the stream in patches . 
There was talk of a floating body . 
One of the men there , a reservist he said he was , told my brother he had seen the heliograph flickering in the west . 
In Wellington Street my brother met a couple of sturdy roughs who had just been rushed out of Fleet Street with still wet newspapers and staring placards . 
Dreadful catastrophe ! they bawled one to the other down Wellington Street . 
Fight ing at Weybridge ! Full description ! Repulse of the Martians ! London in Danger ! He had to give threepence for a copy of that paper . 
Then it was , and then only , that he realised something of the full power and terror of these monsters . 
They were described as vast spiderlike machines , nearly a hundred feet high , capable of the speed of an express train , and able to shoot out a beam of intense heat . 
Masked batter ies , chiefly of field guns , had been planted in the country about Horsell Common , and especially between the Woking district and London . 
Five of the machines had been seen moving towards the Thames , and one , by a happy chance , had been destroyed . 
In the other cases the shells had missed , and the batteries had been at once annihilated by the Heat Rays . 
Heavy losses of soldiers were mentioned , but the tone of the despatch was optimistic . 
The Martians had been repulsed they were not invulnera ble . 
They had retreated to their triangle of cylinders again , in the circle about Woking . 
Signallers with heliographs were pushing forward upon them from all sides . 
Guns were in rapid transit from Windsor , Portsmouth , Aldershot , Woolwich even from the north among others , long wire guns of ninety five tons from Woolwich . 
Altogether one hundred and sixteen were in position or being hastily placed , chiefly covering Lon don . 
Never before in England had there been such a vast or rapid concentration of military material . 
Any further cylinders that fell , it was hoped , could be destroyed at once by high explosives , which were being rap idly manufactured and distributed . 
No doubt , ran the report , the situation was of the strangest and gravest description , but the public was exhorted to avoid and discourage panic . 
No doubt the Martians were strange and terrible in the extreme , but at the outside there could not be more than twenty of them against our millions . 
The authorities had reason to suppose , from the size of the cylinders , that at the outside there could not be more than five in each cylinder fifteen altogether . 
And one at least was disposed of perhaps more . 
The public would be fairly warned of the approach of danger , and elaborate measures were being taken for the protection of the people in the threatened southwestern suburbs . 
And so , with reiterated assurances of the safety of London and the ability of the authorities to cope with the difficulty , this quasi proclamation closed . 
This was printed in enormous type on paper so fresh that it was still wet , and there had been no time to add a word of comment . 
It was curious , my brother said , to see how ruth lessly the usual contents of the paper had been hacked and taken out to give this place . 
All down Wellington Street people could be seen fluttering out the pink sheets and reading , and the Strand was suddenly noisy with the voices of an army of hawkers following these pioneers . 
Men came scrambling off buses to secure copies . 
Certainly this news excited people intensely , whatever their previous apathy . 
Going on along the Strand to Trafalgar Square , the paper in his hand , my brother saw some of the fugitives from West Surrey . 
There was a man with his wife and two boys and some articles of furniture in a cart such as greengrocers use . 
He was driving from the direction of Westminster Bridge and close behind him came a hay waggon with five or six respectable looking people in it , and some boxes and bundles . 
The faces of these people were haggard , and their entire appearance contrasted conspicuously with the Sabbath best appearance of the people on the omnibuses . 
People in fash ionable clothing peeped at them out of cabs . 
They stopped at the Square as if undecided which way to take , and finally turned eastward along the Strand . 
Some way behind these came a man in workday clothes , riding one of those old fashioned tricycles with a small front wheel . 
He was dirty and white in the face . 
My brother turned down towards Victoria , and met a num ber of such people . 
He had a vague idea that he might see something of me . 
He noticed an unusual number of police regulating the traffic . 
Some of the refugees were exchanging news with the people on the omnibuses . 
One was professing to have seen the Martians . 
Boilers on stilts , I tell you , striding along like men . 
Most of them were excited and animated by their strange experience . 
Beyond Victoria the public houses were doing a lively trade with these arrivals . 
At all the street corners groups of people were reading papers , talking excitedly , or staring at these unusual Sunday visitors . 
They seemed to increase as night drew on , until at last the roads , my brother said , were like Epsom High Street on a Derby Day . 
My brother addressed several of these fugitives and got unsatisfactory answers from most . 
None of them could tell him any news of Woking except one man , who assured him that Woking had been entirely destroyed on the previous night . 
I come from Byfleet , he said man on a bicycle came through the place in the early morning , and ran from door to door warning us to come away . 
We went out to look , and there were clouds of smoke to the south nothing but smoke , and not a soul coming that way . 
Then we heard the guns at Chertsey , and folks coming from Wey bridge . 
So I've locked up my house and come on . 
At the time there was a strong feeling in the streets that the authorities were to blame for their incapacity to dispose of the invaders without all this inconvenience . 
About eight o'clock a noise of heavy firing was distinctly audible all over the south of London . 
He walked from Westminster to his apartments near Re gent's Park , about two . 
He was now very anxious on my account , and disturbed at the evident magnitude of the trouble . 
His mind was inclined to run , even as mine had run on Saturday , on military details . 
He thought of all those silent , expectant guns , of the suddenly nomadic countryside he tried to imagine boilers on stilts a hundred feet high . 
The night was warm and still , and a little oppressive the sound of guns continued intermittently , and after midnight there seemed to be sheet lightning in the south . 
He read and re read the paper , fearing the worst had hap pened to me . 
He was restless , and after supper prowled out again aimlessly . 
He returned and tried in vain to divert his attention to his examination notes . 
Red reflections danced on the ceiling . 
For a moment he lay astonished , wondering whether day had come or the world gone mad . 
Then he jumped out of bed and ran to the window . 
They are coming ! bawled a policeman , hammering at the door the Martians are coming ! and hurried to the next door . 
The sound of drumming and trumpeting came from the Albany Street Barracks , and every church within earshot was hard at work killing sleep with a vehement disorderly tocsin . 
There was a noise of doors opening , and window after win dow in the houses opposite flashed from darkness into yellow illumination . 
Up the street came galloping a closed carriage , bursting abruptly into noise at the corner , rising to a clattering climax under the window , and dying away slowly in the distance . 
For a long time my brother stared out of the window in blank astonishment , watching the policemen hammering at door after door , and delivering their incomprehensible mes sage . 
What the devil is it ? he asked . 
A fire ? What a devil of a row ! They both craned their heads out of the window , straining to hear what the policemen were shouting . 
People were com ing out of the side streets , and standing in groups at the corners talking . 
What the devil is it all about ? said my brother's fellow lodger . 
My brother answered him vaguely and began to dress , running with each garment to the window in order to miss nothing of the growing excitement . 
Pancras , and westward and northward in Kilburn and St . 
It was the dawn of the great panic . 
London , which had gone to bed on Sunday night oblivious and inert , was awakened , in the small hours of Monday morning , to a vivid sense of danger . 
The flying people on foot and in vehicles grew more numerous every moment . 
Black Smoke ! he heard people crying , and again Black Smoke ! The contagion of such a unanimous fear was inevitable . 
As my brother hesitated on the door step , he saw another news vender approaching , and got a paper forthwith . 
The man was running away with the rest , and selling his papers for a shilling each as he ran a grotesque mingling of profit and panic . 
And from this paper my brother read that catastrophic despatch of the Commander in Chief The Martians are able to discharge enormous clouds of a black and poisonous vapour by means of rockets . 
They have smothered our batteries , destroyed Richmond , Kingston , and Wimbledon , and are advancing slowly towards London , de stroying everything on the way . 
It is impossible to stop them . 
There is no safety from the Black Smoke but in instant flight . 
That was all , but it was enough . 
The whole population of the great six million city was stirring , slipping , running pres ently it would be pouring EN MASSE northward . 
Black Smoke ! the voices cried . 
Fire ! The bells of the neighbouring church made a jangling tumult , a cart carelessly driven smashed , amid shrieks and curses , against the water trough up the street . 
Sickly yellow lights went to and fro in the houses , and some of the passing cabs flaunted unextinguished lamps . 
And overhead the dawn was growing brighter , clear and steady and calm . 
He heard footsteps running to and fro in the rooms , and up and down stairs behind him . 
His landlady came to the door , loosely wrapped in dressing gown and shawl her hus band followed ejaculating . 
These Martians did not advance in a body , but in a line , each perhaps a mile and a half from his nearest fellow . 
They communicated with one another by means of sirenlike howls , running up and down the scale from one note to another . 
It was this howling and firing of the guns at Ripley and St . 
George's Hill that we had heard at Upper Halliford . 
George's Hill men , however , were better led or of a better mettle . 
Hidden by a pine wood as they were , they seem to have been quite unsuspected by the Martian nearest to them . 
They laid their guns as deliberately as if they had been on parade , and fired at about a thousand yards' range . 
The shells flashed all round him , and he was seen to advance a few paces , stagger , and go down . 
Everybody yelled together , and the guns were reloaded in frantic haste . 
The overthrown Martian set up a prolonged ululation , and imme diately a second glittering giant , answering him , appeared over the trees to the south . 
It would seem that a leg of the tripod had been smashed by one of the shells . 
The whole of the second volley flew wide of the Martian on the ground , and , simultaneously , both his companions brought their Heat Rays to bear on the battery . 
After this it would seem that the three took counsel to gether and halted , and the scouts who were watching them report that they remained absolutely stationary for the next half hour . 
About nine he had finished , for his cowl was then seen above the trees again . 
It was a few minutes past nine that night when these three sentinels were joined by four other Martians , each carrying a thick black tube . 
A similar tube was handed to each of the three , and the seven proceeded to distribute themselves at equal distances along a curved line between St . 
George's Hill , Weybridge , and the village of Send , southwest of Ripley . 
A dozen rockets sprang out of the hills before them so soon as they began to move , and warned the waiting batteries about Ditton and Esher . 
They moved , as it seemed to us , upon a cloud , for a milky mist covered the fields and rose to a third of their height . 
He looked back , saw what I was doing , and turned to join me . 
The two halted , the nearer to us standing and facing Sun bury , the remoter being a grey indistinctness towards the evening star , away towards Staines . 
The occasional howling of the Martians had ceased they took up their positions in the huge crescent about their cylinders in absolute silence . 
It was a crescent with twelve miles between its horns . 
Never since the devising of gun powder was the beginning of a battle so still . 
George's Hill and the woods of Painshill . 
The signal rockets burst and rained their sparks through the night and vanished , and the spirit of all those watching batteries rose to a tense expecta tion . 
No doubt the thought that was uppermost in a thousand of those vigilant minds , even as it was uppermost in mine , was the riddle how much they understood of us . 
A hundred such questions struggled together in my mind as I watched that vast sentinel shape . 
And in the back of my mind was the sense of all the huge unknown and hidden forces Londonward . 
Another nearer , and then another . 
And then the Martian beside us raised his tube on high and discharged it , gunwise , with a heavy report that made the ground heave . 
The one towards Staines answered him . 
There was no flash , no smoke , simply that loaded detonation . 
As I did so a second report followed , and a big projectile hurtled overhead towards Hounslow . 
I ex pected at least to see smoke or fire , or some such evidence of its work . 
But all I saw was the deep blue sky above , with one solitary star , and the white mist spreading wide and low beneath . 
And there had been no crash , no answering ex plosion . 
The silence was restored the minute lengthened to three . 
What has happened ? said the curate , standing up beside me . 
Heaven knows ! said I. A bat flickered by and vanished . 
A distant tumult of shouting began and ceased . 
The figure of the Martian grew smaller as he receded , and presently the mist and the gathering night had swallowed him up . 
By a common impulse we clambered higher . 
These hill like forms grew lower and broader even as we stared . 
Moved by a sudden thought , I looked northward , and there I perceived a third of these cloudy black kopjes had risen . 
Everything had suddenly become very still . 
Far away to the southeast , marking the quiet , we heard the Martians hooting to one another , and then the air quivered again with the distant thud of their guns . 
But the earthly artillery made no reply . 
Now at the time we could not understand these things , but later I was to learn the meaning of these ominous kopjes that gathered in the twilight . 
And the touch of that vapour , the inhaling of its pungent wisps , was death to all that breathes . 
And where it came upon water some chemical action occurred , and the surface would be instantly covered with a powdery scum that sank slowly and made way for more . 
The vapour did not diffuse as a true gas would do . 
Save that an unknown element giving a group of four lines in the blue of the spectrum is concerned , we are still entirely ignorant of the nature of this substance . 
But that was at Street Cobham , where the black vapour was allowed to remain until it sank of its own accord into the ground . 
As a rule the Martians , when it had served its purpose , cleared the air of it again by wading into it and directing a jet of steam upon it . 
This they did with the vapour banks near us , as we saw in the starlight from the window of a deserted house at Upper Halliford , whither we had returned . 
Then the fourth cylinder fell a brilliant green meteor as I learned afterwards , in Bushey Park . 
So , setting about it as methodically as men might smoke out a wasps' nest , the Martians spread this strange stifling vapour over the Londonward country . 
The horns of the crescent slowly moved apart , until at last they formed a line from Hanwell to Coombe and Malden . 
All night through their destructive tubes advanced . 
Never once , after the Martian at St . 
George's Hill was brought down , did they give the artillery the ghost of a chance against them . 
And through this two Martians slowly waded , and turned their hissing steam jets this way and that . 
In the latter aim they certainly succeeded . 
Sun day night was the end of the organised opposition to their movements . 
After that no body of men would stand against them , so hopeless was the enterprise . 
Even the crews of the torpedo boats and destroyers that had brought their quick firers up the Thames refused to stop , mutinied , and went down again . 
The only offensive operation men ventured upon after that night was the preparation of mines and pitfalls , and even in that their energies were frantic and spasmodic . 
One has to imagine , as well as one may , the fate of those batteries towards Esher , waiting so tensely in the twilight . 
And then night and extinction nothing but a silent mass of impenetrable vapour hiding its dead . 
All the railway lines north of the Thames and the South Eastern people at Cannon Street had been warned by mid night on Sunday , and trains were being filled . 
People were fighting savagely for standing room in the carriages even at two o'clock . 
Another bank drove over Ealing , and sur rounded a little island of survivors on Castle Hill , alive , but unable to escape . 
The steep foot of Haverstock Hill was impassable owing to several overturned horses , and my brother struck into Belsize Road . 
So he got out of the fury of the panic , and , skirting the Edgware Road , reached Edgware about seven , fasting and wearied , but well ahead of the crowd . 
Along the road people were standing in the roadway , curious , wondering . 
He was passed by a number of cyclists , some horsemen , and two motor cars . 
A mile from Edgware the rim of the wheel broke , and the machine became unridable . 
He left it by the roadside and trudged through the village . 
He succeeded in getting some food at an inn . 
For a time he remained in Edgware not knowing what next to do . 
The flying people increased in number . 
Many of them , like my brother , seemed inclined to loiter in the place . 
There was no fresh news of the invaders from Mars . 
At that time the road was crowded , but as yet far from congested . 
Presently he came upon a stile , and , crossing it , followed a footpath northeastward . 
He passed near several farmhouses and some little places whose names he did not learn . 
He saw few fugitives until , in a grass lane towards High Barnet , he hap pened upon two ladies who became his fellow travellers . 
He came upon them just in time to save them . 
My brother immediately grasped the situation , shouted , and hurried towards the struggle . 
It was no time for pugilistic chivalry and my brother laid him quiet with a kick , and gripped the collar of the man who pulled at the slender lady's arm . 
The man before him , a burly rough , tried to close , and he stopped him with a blow in the face . 
Suddenly he stumbled and fell his immediate pursuer went headlong , and he rose to his feet to find himself with a couple of antagonists again . 
He would have had little chance against them had not the slender lady very pluckily pulled up and returned to his help . 
It seems she had had a revolver all this time , but it had been under the seat when she and her companion were attacked . 
She fired at six yards' distance , narrowly missing my brother . 
The less courageous of the robbers made off , and his companion followed him , cursing his cowardice . 
They both stopped in sight down the lane , where the third man lay insensible . 
Take this ! said the slender lady , and she gave my brother her revolver . 
Go back to the chaise , said my brother , wiping the blood from his split lip . 
She turned without a word they were both panting and they went back to where the lady in white struggled to hold back the frightened pony . 
The robbers had evidently had enough of it . 
When my brother looked again they were retreating . 
I'll sit here , said my brother , if I may and he got upon the empty front seat . 
The lady looked over her shoulder . 
Give me the reins , she said , and laid the whip along the pony's side . 
In another moment a bend in the road hid the three men from my brother's eyes . 
He stopped behind to tell the neighbours . 
He would overtake them , he said , at about half past four in the morning , and now it was nearly nine and they had seen nothing of him . 
They could not stop in Edgware because of the growing traffic through the place , and so they had come into this side lane . 
That was the story they told my brother in fragments when presently they stopped again , nearer to New Barnet . 
They made a sort of encampment by the wayside , and the pony became happy in the hedge . 
He told them of his own escape out of London , and all that he knew of these Martians and their ways . 
The sun crept higher in the sky , and after a time their talk died out and gave place to an uneasy state of anticipation . 
Several wayfarers came along the lane , and of these my brother gathered such news as he could . 
Every broken answer he had deepened his impression of the great disaster that had come on humanity , deepened his persuasion of the immediate necessity for prosecuting this flight . 
He urged the matter upon them . 
We have money , said the slender woman , and hesitated . 
Her eyes met my brother's , and her hesitation ended . 
So have I , said my brother . 
She explained that they had as much as thirty pounds in gold , besides a five pound note , and suggested that with that they might get upon a train at St . 
So , designing to cross the Great North Road , they went on towards Barnet , my brother leading the pony to save it as much as possible . 
As the sun crept up the sky the day became excessively hot , and under foot a thick , whitish sand grew burning and blinding , so that they travelled only very slowly . 
The hedges were grey with dust . 
And as they advanced towards Barnet a tumultuous murmuring grew stronger . 
They began to meet more people . 
For the most part these were staring before them , murmuring indistinct questions , jaded , haggard , unclean . 
One man in evening dress passed them on foot , his eyes on the ground . 
They heard his voice , and , looking back at him , saw one hand clutched in his hair and the other beating invisible things . 
His paroxysm of rage over , he went on his way without once looking back . 
There were three girls , East End factory girls , and a couple of little chil dren crowded in the cart . 
Mrs. Elphinstone suddenly cried out at a number of tongues of smoky red flame leaping up above the houses in front of them against the hot , blue sky . 
The tumultuous noise resolved itself now into the disorderly mingling of many voices , the gride of many wheels , the creaking of waggons , and the staccato of hoofs . 
The lane came round sharply not fifty yards from the crossroads . 
Good heavens ! cried Mrs. Elphinstone . 
What is this you are driving us into ? My brother stopped . 
For the main road was a boiling stream of people , a tor rent of human beings rushing northward , one pressing on another . 
Way ! my brother heard voices crying . 
And , indeed , a little way up the road a villa was burning and sending rolling masses of black smoke across the road to add to the con fusion . 
Two men came past them . 
Then a dirty woman , carrying a heavy bundle and weeping . 
A lost retriever dog , with hanging tongue , circled dubiously round them , scared and wretched , and fled at my brother's threat . 
Go on ! Go on ! cried the voices . 
Way ! Way ! One man's hands pressed on the back of another . 
My brother stood at the pony's head . 
Irresistibly attracted , he advanced slowly , pace by pace , down the lane . 
Edgware had been a scene of confusion , Chalk Farm a riotous tumult , but this was a whole population in movement . 
It is hard to imagine that host . 
It had no character of its own . 
The figures poured out past the corner , and receded with their backs to the group in the lane . 
Along the margin came those who were on foot threatened by the wheels , stumbling in the ditches , blundering into one another . 
Push on ! was the cry . 
The horses bits were covered with foam , their eyes bloodshot . 
There were cabs , carriages , shop cars , waggons , beyond counting a mail cart , a road cleaner's cart marked Vestry of St . 
Pancras , a huge timber waggon crowded with roughs . 
A brewer's dray rumbled by with its two near wheels splashed with fresh blood . 
Clear the way ! cried the voices . 
Clear the way ! Eter nity ! Eter nity ! came echoing down the road . 
There were sad , haggard women tramping by , well dressed , with children that cried and stumbled , their dainty clothes smothered in dust , their weary faces smeared with tears . 
With many of these came men , sometimes helpful , sometimes low ering and savage . 
Fighting side by side with them pushed some weary street outcast in faded black rags , wide eyed , loud voiced , and foul mouthed . 
But varied as its composition was , certain things all that host had in common . 
There were fear and pain on their faces , and fear behind them . 
The heat and dust had already been at work upon this multitude . 
Their skins were dry , their lips black and cracked . 
They were all thirsty , weary , and footsore . 
And amid the various cries one heard disputes , reproaches , groans of weariness and fatigue the voices of most of them were hoarse and weak . 
Through it all ran a refrain Way ! Way ! The Martians are coming ! Few stopped and came aside from that flood . 
The lane opened slantingly into the main road with a narrow opening , and had a delusive appearance of coming from the direction of London . 
Yet a kind of eddy of people drove into its mouth weaklings elbowed out of the stream , who for the most part rested but a moment before plunging into it again . 
A little way down the lane , with two friends bending over him , lay a man with a bare leg , wrapped about with bloody rags . 
He was a lucky man to have friends . 
So soon as my brother touched her she became quite still , as if frightened . 
Out of the way , there ! bawled a coachman , towering high and my brother saw a closed carriage turning into the lane . 
The people crushed back on one another to avoid the horse . 
My brother pushed the pony and chaise back into the hedge , and the man drove by and stopped at the turn of the way . 
It was a carriage , with a pole for a pair of horses , but only one was in the traces . 
My brother saw dimly through the dust that two men lifted out something on a white stretcher and put it gently on the grass beneath the privet hedge . 
One of the men came running to my brother . 
Where is there any water ? he said . 
He is dying fast , and very thirsty . 
Lord Garrick ! said my brother the Chief Justice ? The water ? he said . 
There may be a tap , said my brother , in some of the houses . 
I dare not leave my people . 
The man pushed against the crowd towards the gate of the corner house . 
Go on ! said the people , thrusting at him . 
They rolled hither and thither among the struggling feet of men and horses . 
The man stopped and looked stupidly at the heap , and the shaft of a cab struck his shoulder and sent him reeling . 
He gave a shriek and dodged back , and a cartwheel shaved him narrowly . 
Way ! cried the men all about him . 
Make way ! So soon as the cab had passed , he flung himself , with both hands open , upon the heap of coins , and began thrusting handfuls in his pocket . 
A horse rose close upon him , and in another moment , half rising , he had been borne down under the horse's hoofs . 
Stop ! screamed my brother , and pushing a woman out of his way , tried to clutch the bit of the horse . 
Before he could get to it , he heard a scream under the wheels , and saw through the dust the rim passing over the poor wretch's back . 
The driver of the cart slashed his whip at my brother , who ran round behind the cart . 
The multi tudinous shouting confused his ears . 
The man was writhing in the dust among his scattered money , unable to rise , for the wheel had broken his back , and his lower limbs lay limp and dead . 
My brother stood up and yelled at the next driver , and a man on a black horse came to his assistance . 
Get him out of the road , said he and , clutching the man's collar with his free hand , my brother lugged him sideways . 
But he still clutched after his money , and regarded my brother fiercely , hammering at his arm with a handful of gold . 
Go on ! Go on ! shouted angry voices behind . 
Way ! Way ! There was a smash as the pole of a carriage crashed into the cart that the man on horseback stopped . 
My brother looked up , and the man with the gold twisted his head round and bit the wrist that held his collar . 
There was a concussion , and the black horse came staggering sideways , and the carthorse pushed beside it . 
A hoof missed my brother's foot by a hair's breadth . 
He released his grip on the fallen man and jumped back . 
Let us go back ! he shouted , and began turning the pony round . 
We cannot cross this hell , he said and they went back a hundred yards the way they had come , until the fighting crowd was hidden . 
The two women sat silent , crouching in their seat and shivering . 
Then beyond the bend my brother stopped again . 
Miss Elphinstone was white and pale , and her sister in law sat weeping , too wretched even to call upon George . 
My brother was horrified and perplexed . 
So soon as they had retreated he realised how urgent and unavoidable it was to attempt this crossing . 
He turned to Miss Elphinstone , sud denly resolute . 
We must go that way , he said , and led the pony round again . 
For the second time that day this girl proved her quality . 
To force their way into the torrent of people , my brother plunged into the traffic and held back a cab horse , while she drove the pony across its head . 
A waggon locked wheels for a moment and ripped a long splinter from the chaise . 
In another moment they were caught and swept forward by the stream . 
My brother , with the cabman's whip marks red across his face and hands , scrambled into the chaise and took the reins from her . 
Point the revolver at the man behind , he said , giving it to her , if he presses us too hard . 
No ! point it at his horse . 
Then he began to look out for a chance of edging to the right across the road . 
But once in the stream he seemed to lose volition , to become a part of that dusty rout . 
They swept through Chipping Barnet with the torrent they were nearly a mile beyond the centre of the town before they had fought across to the opposite side of the way . 
It was din and con fusion indescribable but in and beyond the town the road forks repeatedly , and this to some extent relieved the stress . 
My brother supposes they must have filled outside London , for at that time the furious terror of the people had rendered the central termini impossible . 
Near this place they halted for the rest of the afternoon , for the violence of the day had already utterly exhausted all three of them . 
They began to suffer the beginnings of hunger the night was cold , and none of them dared to sleep . 
Never before in the history of the world had such a mass of human beings moved and suffered together . 
The legendary hosts of Goths and Huns , the hugest armies Asia has ever seen , would have been but a drop in that current . 
And this was no disciplined march it was a stampede a stampede gigantic and terrible without order and without a goal , six million people unarmed and unprovisioned , driving headlong . 
It was the beginning of the rout of civilisation , of the massacre of mankind . 
Over Ealing , Richmond , Wimbledon , it would have seemed as if some monstrous pen had flung ink upon the chart . 
They do not seem to have aimed at extermination so much as at complete demoral isation and the destruction of any opposition . 
They exploded any stores of powder they came upon , cut every telegraph , and wrecked the railways here and there . 
They were ham stringing mankind . 
They seemed in no hurry to extend the field of their operations , and did not come beyond the central part of London all that day . 
It is possible that a very con siderable number of people in London stuck to their houses through Monday morning . 
Certain it is that many died at home suffocated by the Black Smoke . 
Until about midday the Pool of London was an astonishing scene . 
About one o'clock in the afternoon the thinning remnant of a cloud of the black vapour appeared between the arches of Blackfriars Bridge . 
People were actually clambering down the piers of the bridge from above . 
When , an hour later , a Martian appeared beyond the Clock Tower and waded down the river , nothing but wreck age floated above Limehouse . 
Of the falling of the fifth cylinder I have presently to tell . 
The sixth star fell at Wimbledon . 
My brother , keeping watch beside the women in the chaise in a meadow , saw the green flash of it far beyond the hills . 
On Tuesday the little party , still set upon getting across the sea , made its way through the swarming country towards Colchester . 
The news that the Martians were now in possession of the whole of London was confirmed . 
They had been seen at Highgate , and even , it was said , at Neasden . 
But they did not come into my brother's view until the morrow . 
That day the scattered multitudes began to realise the urgent need of provisions . 
As they grew hungry the rights of property ceased to be regarded . 
Farmers were out to defend their cattle sheds , granaries , and ripening root crops with arms in their hands . 
A number of people now , like my brother , had their faces eastward , and there were some des perate souls even going back towards London to get food . 
These were chiefly people from the northern suburbs , whose knowledge of the Black Smoke came by hearsay . 
He was also told that the Midland Railway Company had replaced the desertions of the first day's panic , had resumed traffic , and was running northward trains from St . 
Albans to relieve the congestion of the home counties . 
Nor , as a matter of fact , did anyone else hear more of it . 
That night fell the seventh star , falling upon Primrose Hill . 
It fell while Miss Elphinstone was watching , for she took that duty alter nately with my brother . 
Here there were rumours of Martians at Epping , and news of the destruction of Waltham Abbey Powder Mills in a vain attempt to blow up one of the invaders . 
People were watching for Martians here from the church towers . 
By mid day they passed through Tillingham , which , strangely enough , seemed to be quite silent and deserted , save for a few furtive plunderers hunting for food . 
Near Tillingham they suddenly came in sight of the sea , and the most amazing crowd of shipping of all sorts that it is possible to imagine . 
They lay in a huge sickle shaped curve that vanished into mist at last towards the Naze . 
About a couple of miles out lay an ironclad , very low in the water , almost , to my brother's perception , like a water logged ship . 
This was the ram THUNDER CHILD . 
At the sight of the sea , Mrs. Elphinstone , in spite of the assurances of her sister in law , gave way to panic . 
She had never been out of England before , she would rather die than trust herself friendless in a foreign country , and so forth . 
She seemed , poor woman , to imagine that the French and the Martians might prove very similar . 
She had been growing increasingly hysterical , fearful , and depressed during the two days' journeyings . 
Her great idea was to return to Stanmore . 
Things had been always well and safe at Stanmore . 
They would find George at Stanmore . 
They sent a boat and drove a bargain for thirty six pounds for the three . 
The steamer was going , these men said , to Ostend . 
It was about two o'clock when my brother , having paid their fares at the gangway , found himself safely aboard the steamboat with his charges . 
There was food aboard , albeit at exorbitant prices , and the three of them contrived to eat a meal on one of the seats forward . 
He would probably have remained longer had it not been for the sound of guns that began about that hour in the south . 
As if in answer , the ironclad seaward fired a small gun and hoisted a string of flags . 
A jet of smoke sprang out of her funnels . 
Some of the passengers were of opinion that this firing came from Shoeburyness , until it was noticed that it was growing louder . 
At the same time , far away in the southeast the masts and upperworks of three ironclads rose one after the other out of the sea , beneath clouds of black smoke . 
But my brother's attention speedily reverted to the distant firing in the south . 
He fancied he saw a column of smoke rising out of the distant grey haze . 
At that the captain on the bridge swore at the top of his voice with fear and anger at his own delay , and the paddles seemed infected with his terror . 
They were all stalking seaward , as if to intercept the escape of the multitudinous vessels that were crowded between Foulness and the Naze . 
He was so fascinated by this and by the creeping danger away to the left that he had no eyes for anything seaward . 
flung him headlong from the seat upon which he was standing . 
There was a shouting all about him , a trampling of feet , and a cheer that seemed to be answered faintly . 
The steamboat lurched and rolled him over upon his hands . 
A douche of spray blinded my brother for a moment . 
When his eyes were clear again he saw the monster had passed and was rushing landward . 
Big iron upperworks rose out of this headlong structure , and from that twin funnels projected and spat a smoking blast shot with fire . 
It was the torpedo ram , THUNDER CHILD , steaming headlong , coming to the rescue of the threatened shipping . 
Thus sunken , and seen in remote perspective , they appeared far less formidable than the huge iron bulk in whose wake the steamer was pitching so helplessly . 
It would seem they were regarding this new antagonist with astonishment . 
To their intelligence , it may be , the giant was even such another as themselves . 
The THUNDER CHILD fired no gun , but simply drove full speed towards them . 
It was probably her not firing that enabled her to get so near the enemy as she did . 
They did not know what to make of her . 
One shell , and they would have sent her to the bottom forthwith with the Heat Ray . 
She was steaming at such a pace that in a minute she seemed halfway between the steamboat and the Martians a diminishing black bulk against the receding horizontal expanse of the Essex coast . 
Suddenly the foremost Martian lowered his tube and dis charged a canister of the black gas at the ironclad . 
It hit her larboard side and glanced off in an inky jet that rolled away to seaward , an unfolding torrent of Black Smoke , from which the ironclad drove clear . 
To the watchers from the steamer , low in the water and with the sun in their eyes , it seemed as though she were already among the Martians . 
They saw the gaunt figures separating and rising out of the water as they retreated shoreward , and one of them raised the camera like generator of the Heat Ray . 
He held it pointing obliquely downward , and a bank of steam sprang from the water at its touch . 
It must have driven through the iron of the ship's side like a white hot iron rod through paper . 
A flicker of flame went up through the rising steam , and then the Martian reeled and staggered . 
In another moment he was cut down , and a great body of water and steam shot high in the air . 
But no one heeded that very much . 
At the sight of the Martian's collapse the captain on the bridge yelled inarticu lately , and all the crowding passengers on the steamer's stern shouted together . 
And then they yelled again . 
For , surging out beyond the white tumult , drove something long and black , the flames streaming from its middle parts , its ventila tors and funnels spouting fire . 
She was alive still the steering gear , it seems , was intact and her engines working . 
She headed straight for a second Martian , and was within a hundred yards of him when the Heat Ray came to bear . 
Then with a violent thud , a blinding flash , her decks , her funnels , leaped upward . 
A boiling tumult of steam hid everything again . 
Two ! , yelled the captain . 
The steam hung upon the water for many minutes , hiding the third Martian and the coast altogether . 
But the ironclads to seaward were now quite close and standing in towards shore past the steamboat . 
The fleet of refugees was scattering to the northeast several smacks were sailing between the ironclads and the steamboat . 
After a time , and before they reached the sinking cloud bank , the warships turned northward , and then abruptly went about and passed into the thickening haze of evening south ward . 
The coast grew faint , and at last indistinguishable amid the low banks of clouds that were gathering about the sinking sun . 
Then suddenly out of the golden haze of the sunset came the vibration of guns , and a form of black shadows moving . 
Everyone struggled to the rail of the steamer and peered into the blinding furnace of the west , but nothing was to be dis tinguished clearly . 
A mass of smoke rose slanting and barred the face of the sun . 
The steamboat throbbed on its way through an interminable suspense . 
The sun sank into grey clouds , the sky flushed and dark ened , the evening star trembled into sight . 
It was deep twilight when the captain cried out and pointed . 
My brother strained his eyes . 
And as it flew it rained down darkness upon the land . 
We could do nothing but wait in aching inactivity during those two weary days . 
My mind was occupied by anxiety for my wife . 
I figured her at Leatherhead , terrified , in danger , mourning me already as a dead man . 
I paced the rooms and cried aloud when I thought of how I was cut off from her , of all that might hap pen to her in my absence . 
My cousin I knew was brave enough for any emergency , but he was not the sort of man to realise danger quickly , to rise promptly . 
What was needed now was not bravery , but circumspection . 
My only consola tion was to believe that the Martians were moving London ward and away from her . 
Such vague anxieties keep the mind sensitive and painful . 
I grew very weary and irritable with the curate's perpetual ejaculations I tired of the sight of his selfish despair . 
After some ineffectual remonstrance I kept away from him , staying in a room evidently a children's schoolroom containing globes , forms , and copybooks . 
When he followed me thither , I went to a box room at the top of the house and , in order to be alone with my aching miseries , locked myself in . 
We were hopelessly hemmed in by the Black Smoke all that day and the morning of the next . 
There were signs of people in the next house on Sunday evening a face at a window and moving lights , and later the slamming of a door . 
But I do not know who these people were , nor what became of them . 
We saw nothing of them next day . 
The Black Smoke drifted slowly riverward all through Monday morning , creep ing nearer and nearer to us , driving at last along the roadway outside the house that hid us . 
When at last we crept across the sodden rooms and looked out again , the country northward was as though a black snowstorm had passed over it . 
Looking towards the river , we were astonished to see an unaccountable redness mingling with the black of the scorched meadows . 
For a time we did not see how this change affected our position , save that we were relieved of our fear of the Black Smoke . 
But later I perceived that we were no longer hemmed in , that now we might get away . 
So soon as I realised that the way of escape was open , my dream of action returned . 
But the curate was lethargic , unreasonable . 
We are safe here , he repeated safe here . 
I resolved to leave him would that I had ! Wiser now for the artilleryman's teaching , I sought out food and drink . 
I had found oil and rags for my burns , and I also took a hat and a flannel shirt that I found in one of the bedrooms . 
When it was clear to him that I meant to go alone had reconciled myself to going alone he suddenly roused himself to come . 
And all being quiet throughout the afternoon , we started about five o'clock , as I should judge , along the blackened road to Sunbury . 
That pall of cindery powder made me think of what I had read of the destruction of Pompeii . 
These were the first people we saw . 
Away across the road the woods beyond Ham and Peter sham were still afire . 
Twickenham was uninjured by either Heat Ray or Black Smoke , and there were more people about here , though none could give us news . 
For the most part they were like ourselves , taking advantage of a lull to shift their quarters . 
I have an impression that many of the houses here were still occupied by scared inhabitants , too frightened even for flight . 
Here too the evidence of a hasty rout was abundant along the road . 
I remember most vividly three smashed bicycles in a heap , pounded into the road by the wheels of subsequent carts . 
We crossed Richmond Bridge about half past eight . 
We hurried across the exposed bridge , of course , but I noticed floating down the stream a number of red masses , some many feet across . 
I did not know what these were there was no time for scrutiny and I put a more horrible interpretation on them than they deserved . 
We saw in the blackened distance a group of three people running down a side street towards the river , but otherwise it seemed deserted . 
Up the hill Richmond town was burning briskly outside the town of Richmond there was no trace of the Black Smoke . 
We stood aghast at our danger , and had the Martian looked down we must immediately have perished . 
We were so terrified that we dared not go on , but turned aside and hid in a shed in a garden . 
There the curate crouched , weeping silently , and refusing to stir again . 
But my fixed idea of reaching Leatherhead would not let me rest , and in the twilight I ventured out again . 
I went through a shrubbery , and along a passage beside a big house standing in its own grounds , and so emerged upon the road towards Kew . 
The curate I left in the shed , but he came hurrying after me . 
That second start was the most foolhardy thing I ever did . 
For it was manifest the Martians were about us . 
No sooner had the curate overtaken me than we saw either the fighting machine we had seen before or another , far away across the meadows in the direction of Kew Lodge . 
Four or five little black figures hurried before it across the green grey of the field , and in a moment it was evident this Martian pursued them . 
In three strides he was among them , and they ran radiating from his feet in all directions . 
He used no Heat Ray to destroy them , but picked them up one by one . 
Apparently he tossed them into the great metallic carrier which projected behind him , much as a workman's basket hangs over his shoulder . 
It was the first time I realised that the Martians might have any other purpose than destruction with defeated humanity . 
Sheen , it seemed , had escaped destruction , but the place was silent and deserted . 
Here we happened on no dead , though the night was too dark for us to see into the side roads of the place . 
In Sheen my companion suddenly com plained of faintness and thirst , and we decided to try one of the houses . 
There was , however , water to drink and I took a hatchet , which promised to be useful in our next house breaking . 
We then crossed to a place where the road turns towards Mortlake . 
I give this catalogue so precisely because , as it happened , we were destined to subsist upon this store for the next fortnight . 
Bottled beer stood under a shelf , and there were two bags of haricot beans and some limp lettuces . 
We sat in the adjacent kitchen in the dark for we dared not strike a light and ate bread and ham , and drank beer out of the same bottle . 
It can't be midnight yet , I said , and then came a blinding glare of vivid green light . 
Everything in the kitchen leaped out , clearly visible in green and black , and vanished again . 
And then followed such a concussion as I have never heard before or since . 
I was knocked headlong across the floor against the oven handle and stunned . 
For some time I could not recollect what had happened . 
Then things came to me slowly . 
A bruise on my temple as serted itself . 
Are you better ? asked the curate in a whisper . 
At last I answered him . 
Don't move , he said . 
The floor is covered with smashed crockery from the dresser . 
You can't possibly move without making a noise , and I fancy THEY are outside . 
We both sat quite silent , so that we could scarcely hear each other breathing . 
Everything seemed deadly still , but once something near us , some plaster or broken brickwork , slid down with a rumbling sound . 
Outside and very near was an intermittent , metallic rattle . 
That ! said the curate , when presently it happened again . 
But what is it ? A Martian ! said the curate . 
Our situation was so strange and incomprehensible that for three or four hours , until the dawn came , we scarcely moved . 
The interior of the kitchen we now saw greyly for the first time . 
The window had been burst in by a mass of garden mould , which flowed over the table upon which we had been sitting and lay about our feet . 
Outside , the soil was banked high against the house . 
At the top of the window frame we could see an uprooted drainpipe . 
As the dawn grew clearer , we saw through the gap in the wall the body of a Martian , standing sentinel , I suppose , over the still glowing cylinder . 
At the sight of that we crawled as circumspectly as possible out of the twilight of the kitchen into the darkness of the scullery . 
Abruptly the right interpretation dawned upon my mind . 
Save for that sound we lay quite still in the scullery I for my part scarce dared breathe , and sat with my eyes fixed on the faint light of the kitchen door . 
I could just see the curate's face , a dim , oval shape , and his collar and cuffs . 
Outside there began a metallic hammering , then a violent hooting , and then again , after a quiet interval , a hissing like the hissing of an engine . 
These noises , for the most part problematical , continued intermittently , and seemed if any thing to increase in number as time wore on . 
Presently a measured thudding and a vibration that made everything about us quiver and the vessels in the pantry ring and shift , began and continued . 
Once the light was eclipsed , and the ghostly kitchen doorway became absolutely dark . 
For many hours we must have crouched there , silent and shivering , until our tired attention failed . 
At last I found myself awake and very hungry . 
I am in clined to believe we must have spent the greater portion of a day before that awakening . 
My hunger was at a stride so insistent that it moved me to action . 
I told the curate I was going to seek food , and felt my way towards the pantry . 
He made me no answer , but so soon as I began eating the faint noise I made stirred him up and I heard him crawling after me . 
The thudding vibration continued with wearisome persistence . 
I whispered for the curate several times , and at last felt my way to the door of the kitchen . 
It was still day light , and I perceived him across the room , lying against the triangular hole that looked out upon the Martians . 
His shoulders were hunched , so that his head was hidden from me . 
I could hear a number of noises almost like those in an engine shed and the place rocked with that beating thud . 
Through the aperture in the wall I could see the top of a tree touched with gold and the warm blue of a tranquil evening sky . 
For a minute or so I remained watching the curate , and then I advanced , crouching and stepping with extreme care amid the broken crockery that littered the floor . 
I touched the curate's leg , and he started so violently that a mass of plaster went sliding down outside and fell with a loud impact . 
I gripped his arm , fearing he might cry out , and for a long time we crouched motionless . 
Then I turned to see how much of our rampart remained . 
Vast , indeed , was the change that we beheld . 
The fifth cylinder must have fallen right into the midst of the house we had first visited . 
The building had vanished , completely smashed , pulverised , and dispersed by the blow . 
The cylinder lay now far beneath the original foundations deep in a hole , already vastly larger than the pit I had looked into at Woking . 
The earth all round it had splashed under that tremendous impact splashed is the only word and lay in heaped piles that hid the masses of the adjacent houses . 
It had behaved exactly like mud under the violent blow of a hammer . 
Over that aspect we hung now on the very edge of the great circular pit the Martians were engaged in making . 
The heavy beating sound was evidently just behind us , and ever and again a bright green vapour drove up like a veil across our peephole . 
The mechanism it certainly was that held my attention first . 
It was one of those complicated fabrics that have since been called handling machines , and the study of which has already given such an enormous impetus to terrestrial invention . 
These , as it ex tracted them , were lifted out and deposited upon a level surface of earth behind it . 
Its motion was so swift , complex , and perfect that at first I did not see it as a machine , in spite of its metallic glitter . 
The fighting machines were co ordinated and animated to an extraordinary pitch , but nothing to compare with this . 
I recall particularly the illustration of one of the first pamphlets to give a consecutive account of the war . 
The artist had evidently made a hasty study of one of the fighting machines , and there his knowledge ended . 
He pre sented them as tilted , stiff tripods , without either flexibility or subtlety , and with an altogether misleading monotony of effect . 
The pamphlet containing these renderings had a con siderable vogue , and I mention them here simply to warn the reader against the impression they may have created . 
They were no more like the Martians I saw in action than a Dutch doll is like a human being . 
To my mind , the pamphlet would have been much better without them . 
With that realisation my interest shifted to those other creatures , the real Martians . 
Already I had had a transient impression of these , and the first nausea no longer obscured my observa tion . 
Moreover , I was concealed and motionless , and under no urgency of action . 
They were , I now saw , the most unearthly creatures it is possible to conceive . 
They were huge round bodies or , rather , heads about four feet in diameter , each body having in front of it a face . 
In a group round the mouth were sixteen slender , almost whiplike tentacles , arranged in two bunches of eight each . 
These bunches have since been named rather aptly , by that distinguished anatomist , Professor Howes , the HANDS . 
There is reason to suppose that on Mars they may have progressed upon them with some facility . 
The internal anatomy , I may remark here , as dissection has since shown , was almost equally simple . 
The greater part of the structure was the brain , sending enormous nerves to the eyes , ear , and tactile tentacles . 
Besides this were the bulky lungs , into which the mouth opened , and the heart and its vessels . 
The pulmonary distress caused by the denser atmosphere and greater gravitational attraction was only too evident in the convulsive movements of the outer skin . 
And this was the sum of the Martian organs . 
Strange as it may seem to a human being , all the complex apparatus of digestion , which makes up the bulk of our bodies , did not exist in the Martians . 
They were heads merely heads . 
They did not eat , much less digest . 
Instead , they took the fresh , living blood of other creatures , and INJECTED it into their own veins . 
I have myself seen this being done , as I shall mention in its place . 
But , squeamish as I may seem , I cannot bring myself to describe what I could not endure even to continue watching . 
The physiological advantages of the practice of injection are undeniable , if one thinks of the tremendous waste of human time and energy occasioned by eating and the digestive process . 
Our bodies are half made up of glands and tubes and organs , occupied in turning heterogeneous food into blood . 
The digestive processes and their reaction upon the nervous system sap our strength and colour our minds . 
Men go happy or miserable as they have healthy or unhealthy livers , or sound gastric glands . 
But the Martians were lifted above all these organic fluctuations of mood and emotion . 
Their undeniable preference for men as their source of nourishment is partly explained by the nature of the remains of the victims they had brought with them as provisions from Mars . 
and feeble musculature , standing about six feet high and having round , erect heads , and large eyes in flinty sockets . 
Two or three of these seem to have been brought in each cylinder , and all were killed before earth was reached . 
It was just as well for them , for the mere attempt to stand upright upon our planet would have broken every bone in their bodies . 
In three other points their physiology differed strangely from ours . 
Their organisms did not sleep , any more than the heart of man sleeps . 
Since they had no extensive muscular mechanism to recuperate , that periodical extinction was unknown to them . 
They had little or no sense of fatigue , it would seem . 
On earth they could never have moved without effort , yet even to the last they kept in action . 
In twenty four hours they did twenty four hours of work , as even on earth is perhaps the case with the ants . 
In man , in all the higher terrestrial animals , such a method of increase has disappeared but even on this earth it was certainly the primitive method . 
On Mars , however , just the reverse has apparently been the case . 
The brain alone re mained a cardinal necessity . 
Only one other part of the body had a strong case for survival , and that was the hand , teacher and agent of the brain . 
While the rest of the body dwindled , the hands would grow larger . 
at the expense of the rest of the body . 
Without the body the brain would , of course , become a mere selfish intelligence , without any of the emotional substratum of the human being . 
The last salient point in which the systems of these creatures differed from ours was in what one might have thought a very trivial particular . 
Micro organisms , which cause so much disease and pain on earth , have either never appeared upon Mars or Martian sanitary science eliminated them ages ago . 
A hundred diseases , all the fevers and con tagions of human life , consumption , cancers , tumours and such morbidities , never enter the scheme of their life . 
And speaking of the differences between the life on Mars and terrestrial life , I may allude here to the curious suggestions of the red weed . 
Apparently the vegetable kingdom in Mars , instead of having green for a dominant colour , is of a vivid blood red tint . 
brought with them gave rise in all cases to red coloured growths . 
Only that known popularly as the red weed , however , gained any footing in competition with terrestrial forms . 
The red creeper was quite a transitory growth , and few people have seen it growing . 
For a time , however , the red weed grew with astonishing vigour and luxuriance . 
And afterwards I found it broadcast throughout the country , and especially wherever there was a stream of water . 
to which I have already alluded , and which , so far , has been the chief source of information con cerning them . 
Now no surviving human being saw so much of the Martians in action as I did . 
I take no credit to myself for an accident , but the fact is so . 
six of them sluggishly performing the most elabo rately complicated operations together without either sound or gesture . 
And I have been convinced of this in spite of strong preconceptions . 
Before the Martian invasion , as an occasional reader here or there may remember , I had written with some little vehemence against the telepathic theory . 
The Martians wore no clothing . 
Yet though they wore no clothing , it was in the other artificial additions to their bodily resources that their great superiority over man lay . 
One would have at least expected it in locomotion . 
And in this connection it is curious to remark that even on this earth Nature has never hit upon the wheel , or has preferred other expedients to its development . 
Almost all the joints of the machinery present a com plicated system of sliding parts moving over small but beauti fully curved friction bearings . 
In this way the curious parallelism to animal motions , which was so striking and disturbing to the human beholder , was attained . 
Such quasi muscles abounded in the crablike handling machine which , on my first peeping out of the slit , I watched un packing the cylinder . 
It seemed infinitely more alive than the actual Martians lying beyond it in the sunset light , panting , stirring ineffectual tentacles , and moving feebly after their vast journey across space . 
I turned to a scowling face , and silent , eloquent lips . 
He wanted the slit , which permitted only one of us to peep through and so I had to forego watching them for a time while he enjoyed that privilege . 
This it was which had caused the regular beating noise , and the rhythmic shocks that had kept our ruinous refuge quiver ing . 
It piped and whistled as it worked . 
So far as I could see , the thing was without a directing Martian at all . 
Yet terrible as was the danger we incurred , the attraction of peeping was for both of us irresist ible . 
The fact is that we had absolutely incompatible dispositions and habits of thought and action , and our danger and isolation only accentuated the incompatibility . 
At Halliford I had al ready come to hate the curate's trick of helpless exclamation , his stupid rigidity of mind . 
He was as lacking in restraint as a silly woman . 
He would weep for hours together , and I verily believe that to the very end this spoiled child of life thought his weak tears in some way efficacious . 
And I would sit in the darkness unable to keep my mind off him by reason of his importunities . 
He ate and drank impulsively in heavy meals at long intervals . 
That brought him to reason for a time . 
It is disagreeable for me to recall and write these things , but I set them down that my story may lack nothing . 
But those who have been under the shadow , who have gone down at last to elemental things , will have a wider charity . 
Let me return to those first new experi ences of mine . 
After a long time I ventured back to the peephole , to find that the new comers had been reinforced by the occupants of no fewer than three of the fighting machines . 
These last had brought with them certain fresh appliances that stood in an orderly manner about the cylinder . 
The second handling machine was now completed , and was busied in serving one of the novel contrivances the big machine had brought . 
The oscillatory motion was imparted to this by one tentacle of the handling machine . 
Another steely tentacle directed the powder from the basin along a ribbed channel towards some receiver that was hidden from me by the mound of bluish dust . 
From this unseen receiver a little thread of green smoke rose vertically into the quiet air . 
The curate had possession of the slit when the first men were brought to the pit . 
I was sitting below , huddled up , listening with all my ears . 
He made a sudden movement backward , and I , fearful that we were observed , crouched in a spasm of terror . 
He came sliding down the rubbish and crept beside me in the darkness , inarticulate , gesticulating , and for a moment I shared his panic . 
At first I could see no reason for his frantic behaviour . 
The twilight had now come , the stars were little and faint , but the pit was illuminated by the flickering green fire that came from the aluminium making . 
The whole picture was a flickering scheme of green gleams and shifting rusty black shadows , strangely trying to the eyes . 
Over and through it all went the bats , heeding it not at all . 
And then , amid the clangour of the machinery , came a drifting suspicion of human voices , that I entertained at first only to dismiss . 
I crouched , watching this fighting machine closely , satisfy ing myself now for the first time that the hood did indeed contain a Martian . 
As the green flames lifted I could see the oily gleam of his integument and the brightness of his eyes . 
And suddenly I heard a yell , and saw a long tentacle reach ing over the shoulder of the machine to the little cage that hunched upon its back . 
For an instant he was clearly visible . 
He was a stout , ruddy , middle aged man , well dressed three days before , he must have been walking the world , a man of considerable consequence . 
I could see his staring eyes and gleams of light on his studs and watch chain . 
He vanished behind the mound , and for a moment there was silence . 
And then began a shrieking and a sustained and cheerful hooting from the Martians . 
I slid down the rubbish , struggled to my feet , clapped my hands over my ears , and bolted into the scullery . 
The curate , I found , was quite incapable of dis cussion this new and culminating atrocity had robbed him of all vestiges of reason or forethought . 
Practically he had already sunk to the level of an animal . 
But as the saying goes , I gripped myself with both hands . 
It grew upon my mind , once I could face the facts , that terrible as our posi tion was , there was as yet no justification for absolute despair . 
Our chief chance lay in the possibility of the Martians making the pit nothing more than a temporary encampment . 
Or even if they kept it permanently , they might not consider it necessary to guard it , and a chance of escape might be afforded us . 
And I should have had to do all the digging myself . 
The curate would certainly have failed me . 
It was on the third day , if my memory serves me right , that I saw the lad killed . 
It was the only occasion on which I actually saw the Martians feed . 
After that experience I avoided the hole in the wall for the better part of a day . 
I lost heart , and lay down on the scullery floor for a long time , having no spirit even to move . 
And after that I abandoned altogether the idea of escaping by excavation . 
But on the fourth or fifth night I heard a sound like heavy guns . 
It was very late in the night , and the moon was shining brightly . 
That night was a beautiful serenity save for one planet , the moon seemed to have the sky to herself . 
I heard a dog howling , and that familiar sound it was that made me listen . 
Then I heard quite distinctly a booming ex actly like the sound of great guns . 
Six distinct reports I counted , and after a long interval six again . 
CHAPTER FOUR THE DEATH OF THE CURATE It was on the sixth day of our imprisonment that I peeped for the last time , and presently found myself alone . 
Instead of keeping close to me and trying to oust me from the slit , the curate had gone back into the scullery . 
I was struck by a sudden thought . 
I went back quickly and quietly into the scullery . 
In the darkness I heard the curate drink ing . 
I snatched in the darkness , and my fingers caught a bottle of burgundy . 
For a few minutes there was a tussle . 
The bottle struck the floor and broke , and I desisted and rose . 
We stood panting and threatening each other . 
In the end I planted myself between him and the food , and told him of my determination to begin a discipline . 
I divided the food in the pantry , into rations to last us ten days . 
I would not let him eat any more that day . 
In the afternoon he made a feeble effort to get at the food . 
I had been dozing , but in an instant I was awake . 
All day and all night we sat face to face , I weary but resolute , and he weeping and com plaining of his immediate hunger . 
It was , I know , a night and a day , but to me it seemed it seems now an inter minable length of time . 
And so our widened incompatibility ended at last in open conflict . 
For two vast days we struggled in undertones and wrestling contests . 
But neither force nor kindness availed he was indeed beyond reason . 
He would neither desist from his attacks on the food nor from his noisy babbling to himself . 
The rudi mentary precautions to keep our imprisonment endurable he would not observe . 
Slowly I began to realise the complete overthrow of his intelligence , to perceive that my sole com panion in this close and sickly darkness was a man insane . 
From certain vague memories I am inclined to think my own mind wandered at times . 
I had strange and hideous dreams whenever I slept . 
It sounds paradoxical , but I am inclined to think that the weakness and insanity of the curate warned me , braced me , and kept me a sane man . 
On the eighth day he began to talk aloud instead of whis pering , and nothing I could do would moderate his speech . 
It is just , O God ! he would say , over and over again . 
On me and mine be the punishment laid . 
We have sinned , we have fallen short . 
There was poverty , sorrow the poor were trodden in the dust , and I held my peace . 
I preached acceptable folly my God , what folly ! when I should have stood up , though I died for it , and called upon them to repent repent ! . 
Oppressors of the poor and needy . 
! The wine press of God ! Then he would suddenly revert to the matter of the food I withheld from him , praying , begging , weeping , at last threatening . 
He began to raise his voice I prayed him not to . 
He perceived a hold on me he threatened he would shout and bring the Martians upon us . 
For a time that scared me but any concession would have shortened our chance of escape beyond estimating . 
I defied him , although I felt no assurance that he might not do this thing . 
But that day , at any rate , he did not . 
Then he slept awhile , and began again with renewed strength , so loudly that I must needs make him desist . 
Be still ! I implored . 
He rose to his knees , for he had been sitting in the dark ness near the copper . 
I have been still too long , he said , in a tone that must have reached the pit , and now I must bear my witness . 
For God's sake Nay , shouted the curate , at the top of his voice , stand ing likewise and extending his arms . 
Speak ! The word of the Lord is upon me ! In three strides he was at the door leading into the kitchen . 
I must bear my witness ! I go ! It has already been too long delayed . 
I put out my hand and felt the meat chopper hanging to the wall . 
In a flash I was after him . 
I was fierce with fear . 
Before he was halfway across the kitchen I had overtaken him . 
With one last touch of humanity I turned the blade back and struck him with the butt . 
He went headlong for ward and lay stretched on the ground . 
I stumbled over him and stood panting . 
Suddenly I heard a noise without , the run and smash of slipping plaster , and the triangular aperture in the wall was darkened . 
I looked up and saw the lower surface of a handling machine coming slowly across the hole . 
One of its gripping limbs curled amid the debris another limb ap peared , feeling its way over the fallen beams . 
I stood petrified , staring . 
I turned by an effort , stumbled over the curate , and stopped at the scullery door . 
The tentacle was now some way , two yards or more , in the room , and twisting and turn ing , with queer sudden movements , this way and that . 
For a while I stood fascinated by that slow , fitful advance . 
Then , with a faint , hoarse cry , I forced myself across the scullery . 
I trembled violently I could scarcely stand upright . 
I opened the door of the coal cellar , and stood there in the darkness staring at the faintly lit doorway into the kitchen , and listen ing . 
Then a heavy body I knew too well what was dragged across the floor of the kitchen towards the opening . 
Irresistibly attracted , I crept to the door and peeped into the kitchen . 
In the triangle of bright outer sunlight I saw the Martian , in its Briareus of a handling machine , scrutinizing the curate's head . 
I thought at once that it would infer my presence from the mark of the blow I had given him . 
Every now and then I paused , rigid , to hear if the Martian had thrust its tentacles through the opening again . 
Then the faint metallic jingle returned . 
I traced it slowly feeling over the kitchen . 
Presently I heard it nearer in the scullery , as I judged . 
I thought that its length might be in sufficient to reach me . 
It passed , scrap ing faintly across the cellar door . 
It was like a black worm swaying its blind head to and fro . 
Once , even , it touched the heel of my boot . 
I was on the verge of screaming I bit my hand . 
For a time the tentacle was silent . 
I could have fancied it had been withdrawn . 
Presently , with an abrupt click , it gripped something I thought it had me ! and seemed to go out of the cellar again . 
For a minute I was not sure . 
Apparently it had taken a lump of coal to examine . 
I seized the opportunity of slightly shifting my position , which had become cramped , and then listened . 
I whispered passionate prayers for safety . 
Then I heard the slow , deliberate sound creeping towards me again . 
Slowly , slowly it drew near , scratching against the walls and tapping the furniture . 
While I was still doubtful , it rapped smartly against the cellar door and closed it . 
I heard it go into the pantry , and the biscuit tins rattled and a bottle smashed , and then came a heavy bump against the cellar door . 
Then silence that passed into an infinity of suspense . 
Had it gone ? At last I decided that it had . 
It was the eleventh day before I ventured so far from my security . 
CHAPTER FIVE THE STILLNESS My first act before I went into the pantry was to fasten the door between the kitchen and the scullery . 
But the pantry was empty every scrap of food had gone . 
Appar ently , the Martian had taken it all on the previous day . 
At that discovery I despaired for the first time . 
I took no food , or no drink either , on the eleventh or the twelfth day . 
At first my mouth and throat were parched , and my strength ebbed sensibly . 
I sat about in the darkness of the scullery , in a state of despondent wretchedness . 
My mind ran on eating . 
I thought I had become deaf , for the noises of movement I had been accustomed to hear from the pit had ceased absolutely . 
I did not feel strong enough to crawl noiselessly to the peephole , or I would have gone there . 
I was greatly refreshed by this , and emboldened by the fact that no enquiring tentacle followed the noise of my pumping . 
During these days , in a rambling , inconclusive way , I thought much of the curate and of the manner of his death . 
On the thirteenth day I drank some more water , and dozed and thought disjointedly of eating and of vague im possible plans of escape . 
The light that came into the scullery was no longer grey , but red . 
To my disordered imagination it seemed the colour of blood . 
Going into the kitchen , I saw a dog's nose peering in through a break among the ruddy fronds . 
At the scent of me he barked shortly . 
I crept forward , saying Good dog ! very softly but he suddenly withdrew his head and disappeared . 
I listened I was not deaf but certainly the pit was still . 
I heard a sound like the flutter of a bird's wings , and a hoarse croaking , but that was all . 
For a long while I lay close to the peephole , but not daring to move aside the red plants that obscured it . 
At length , encouraged by the silence , I looked out . 
Except in the corner , where a multitude of crows hopped and fought over the skeletons of the dead the Martians had consumed , there was not a living thing in the pit . 
I stared about me , scarcely believing my eyes . 
All the machinery had gone . 
Slowly I thrust myself out through the red weed , and stood upon the mound of rubble . 
I could see in any direction save behind me , to the north , and neither Martians nor sign of Martians were to be seen . 
The pit dropped sheerly from my feet , but a little way along the rubbish afforded a prac ticable slope to the summit of the ruins . 
My chance of escape had come . 
To the northward , too , no Martian was visible . 
When I had last seen this part of Sheen in the daylight it had been a straggling street of comfortable white and red houses , interspersed with abundant shady trees . 
The trees near me were dead and brown , but further a network of red thread scaled the still living stems . 
The neighbouring houses had all been wrecked , but none had been burned their walls stood , sometimes to the second story , with smashed windows and shattered doors . 
The red weed grew tumultuously in their roofless rooms . 
Below me was the great pit , with the crows struggling for its refuse . 
A number of other birds hopped about among the ruins . 
Far away I saw a gaunt cat slink crouchingly along a wall , but traces of men there were none . 
The day seemed , by contrast with my recent confinement , dazzlingly bright , the sky a glowing blue . 
A gentle breeze kept the red weed that covered every scrap of unoccupied ground gently swaying . 
And oh ! the sweetness of the air ! CHAPTER SIX THE WORK OF FIFTEEN DAYS For some time I stood tottering on the mound regardless of my safety . 
Within that noisome den from which I had emerged I had thought with a narrow intensity only of our immediate security . 
I had not realised what had been hap pening to the world , had not anticipated this startling vision of unfamiliar things . 
I had expected to see Sheen in ruins I found about me the landscape , weird and lurid , of another planet . 
For that moment I touched an emotion beyond the common range of men , yet one that the poor brutes we dominate know only too well . 
I felt as a rabbit might feel returning to his burrow and suddenly confronted by the work of a dozen busy navvies digging the foundations of a house . 
With us it would be as with them , to lurk and watch , to run and hide the fear and empire of man had passed away . 
But so soon as this strangeness had been realised it passed , and my dominant motive became the hunger of my long and dismal fast . 
In the direction away from the pit I saw , beyond a red covered wall , a patch of garden ground un buried . 
This gave me a hint , and I went knee deep , and sometimes neck deep , in the red weed . 
The density of the weed gave me a reassuring sense of hiding . 
The wall was some six feet high , and when I attempted to clamber it I found I could not lift my feet to the crest . 
These fragments of nourishment served only to whet my hunger . 
At first I was surprised at this flood in a hot , dry summer , but afterwards I discovered that it was caused by the tropical exuberance of the red weed . 
Directly this extraor dinary growth encountered water it straightway became gigantic and of unparalleled fecundity . 
Its seeds were simply poured down into the water of the Wey and Thames , and its swiftly growing and Titanic water fronds speedily choked both those rivers . 
In the end the red weed succumbed almost as quickly as it had spread . 
A cankering disease , due , it is believed , to the action of certain bacteria , presently seized upon it . 
The fronds became bleached , and then shrivelled and brittle . 
They broke off at the least touch , and the waters that had stimulated their early growth carried their last vestiges out to sea . 
My first act on coming to this water was , of course , to slake my thirst . 
I drank a great deal of it and , moved by an impulse , gnawed some fronds of red weed but they were watery , and had a sickly , metallic taste . 
The red weed was less abundant the tall trees along the lane were free from the red creeper . 
I hunted for food among the trees , finding nothing , and I also raided a couple of silent houses , but they had already been broken into and ransacked . 
I rested for the remainder of the day light in a shrubbery , being , in my enfeebled condition , too fatigued to push on . 
All this time I saw no human beings , and no signs of the Martians . 
I encountered a couple of hungry looking dogs , but both hurried circuitously away from the advances I made them . 
But though I gnawed parts of these in my mouth , there was nothing to be got from them . 
After sunset I struggled on along the road towards Putney , where I think the Heat Ray must have been used for some reason . 
And in the garden beyond Roehampton I got a quan tity of immature potatoes , sufficient to stay my hunger . 
From this garden one looked down upon Putney and the river . 
It filled me with indescribable terror to think how swiftly that desolating change had come . 
For a time I believed that mankind had been swept out of existence , and that I stood there alone , the last man left alive . 
Hard by the top of Putney Hill I came upon another skeleton , with the arms dislocated and removed several yards from the rest of the body . 
As I proceeded I became more and more convinced that the extermination of mankind was , save for such stragglers as myself , already accomplished in this part of the world . 
The Martians , I thought , had gone on and left the country desolated , seeking food elsewhere . 
Perhaps even now they were destroying Berlin or Paris , or it might be they had gone northward . 
The place had been already searched and emptied . 
In the bar I afterwards found some biscuits and sandwiches that had been over looked . 
The latter I could not eat , they were too rotten , but the former not only stayed my hunger , but filled my pockets . 
I lit no lamps , fearing some Martian might come beating that part of London for food in the night . 
Before I went to bed I had an interval of restlessness , and prowled from window to window , peering out for some sign of these monsters . 
As I lay in bed I found myself think ing consecutively a thing I do not remember to have done since my last argument with the curate . 
During all the inter vening time my mental condition had been a hurrying suc cession of vague emotional states or a sort of stupid recep tivity . 
But in the night my brain , reinforced , I suppose , by the food I had eaten , grew clear again , and I thought . 
Three things struggled for possession of my mind the killing of the curate , the whereabouts of the Martians , and the possible fate of my wife . 
The former gave me no sensa tion of horror or remorse to recall I saw it simply as a thing done , a memory infinitely disagreeable but quite without the quality of remorse . 
I saw myself then as I see myself now , driven step by step towards that hasty blow , the creature of a sequence of accidents leading inevitably to that . 
I felt no condemnation yet the memory , static , unprogressive , haunted me . 
We had been incapable of co operation grim chance had taken no heed of that . 
Had I foreseen , I should have left him at Halliford . 
But I did not foresee and crime is to foresee and do . 
And I set this down as I have set all this story down , as it was . 
There were no witnesses all these things I might have con cealed . 
But I set it down , and the reader must form his judgment as he will . 
And when , by an effort , I had set aside that picture of a prostrate body , I faced the problem of the Martians and the fate of my wife . 
For the former I had no data I could imagine a hundred things , and so , unhappily , I could for the latter . 
And suddenly that night became terrible . 
I found myself sitting up in bed , staring at the dark . 
I found my self praying that the Heat Ray might have suddenly and painlessly struck her out of being . 
Since the night of my return from Leatherhead I had not prayed . 
Perhaps they also prayed confidently to God . 
Surely , if we have learned noth ing else , this war has taught us pity pity for those witless souls that suffer our dominion . 
The morning was bright and fine , and the eastern sky glowed pink , and was fretted with little golden clouds . 
My movements were languid , my plans of the vaguest . 
I had an idea of going to Leatherhead , though I knew that there I had the poorest chance of finding my wife . 
I knew I wanted to find my wife , that my heart ached for her and the world of men , but I had no clear idea how the finding might be done . 
I was also sharply aware now of my intense loneliness . 
From the corner I went , under cover of a thicket of trees and bushes , to the edge of Wimbledon Common , stretching wide and far . 
I came upon a busy swarm of little frogs in a swampy place among the trees . 
I stopped to look at them , drawing a lesson from their stout resolve to live . 
And presently , turning suddenly , with an odd feeling of being watched , I beheld something crouching amid a clump of bushes . 
I made a step towards it , and it rose up and became a man armed with a cutlass . 
He stood silent and motionless , regarding me . 
As I drew nearer I perceived he was dressed in clothes as dusty and filthy as my own he looked , indeed , as though he had been dragged through a culvert . 
Nearer , I distin guished the green slime of ditches mixing with the pale drab of dried clay and shiny , coaly patches . 
His black hair fell over his eyes , and his face was dark and dirty and sunken , so that at first I did not recognise him . 
There was a red cut across the lower part of his face . 
Stop ! he cried , when I was within ten yards of him , and I stopped . 
Where do you come from ? he said . 
I thought , surveying him . 
I come from Mortlake , I said . 
I was buried near the pit the Martians made about their cylinder . 
I have worked my way out and escaped . 
There is no food about here , he said . 
This is my coun try . 
All this hill down to the river , and back to Clapham , and up to the edge of the common . 
There is only food for one . 
Which way are you going ? I answered slowly . 
I don't know , I said . 
I have been buried in the ruins of a house thirteen or fourteen days . 
I don't know what has happened . 
He looked at me doubtfully , then started , and looked with a changed expression . 
I've no wish to stop about here , said I. I think I shall go to Leatherhead , for my wife was there . 
He shot out a pointing finger . 
It is you , said he the man from Woking . 
And you weren't killed at Weybridge ? I recognised him at the same moment . 
You are the artilleryman who came into my garden . 
Good luck ! he said . 
We are lucky ones ! Fancy YOU ! He put out a hand , and I took it . 
I crawled up a drain , he said . 
But they didn't kill everyone . 
And after they went away I got off towards Walton across the fields . 
But It's not sixteen days altogether and your hair is grey . 
He looked over his shoulder suddenly . 
Only a rook , he said . 
One gets to know that birds have shadows these days . 
This is a bit open . 
Let us crawl under those bushes and talk . 
Have you seen any Martians ? I said . 
Since I crawled out They've gone away across London , he said . 
I guess they've got a bigger camp there . 
Of a night , all over there , Hampstead way , the sky is alive with their lights . 
It's like a great city , and in the glare you can just see them moving . 
But nearer I haven't seen them five days . 
Then I saw a couple across Hammersmith way carrying something big . 
And the night before last he stopped and spoke impressively it was just a matter of lights , but it was something up in the air . 
I believe they've built a flying machine , and are learn ing to fly . 
I stopped , on hands and knees , for we had come to the bushes . 
Fly ! Yes , he said , fly . 
I went on into a little bower , and sat down . 
It is all over with humanity , I said . 
If they can do that they will simply go round the world . 
But It will relieve things over here a bit . 
And besides He looked at me . 
Aren't you satisfied it IS up with humanity ? I am . 
Strange as it may seem , I had not arrived at this fact a fact perfectly obvious so soon as he spoke . 
I had still held a vague hope rather , I had kept a lifelong habit of mind . 
He repeated his words , We're beat . 
It's all over , he said . 
They've lost ONE just ONE . 
And they've made their footing good and crippled the greatest power in the world . 
The death of that one at Weybridge was an accident . 
And these are only pioneers . 
These green stars I've seen none these five or six days , but I've no doubt they're falling somewhere every night . 
We're under ! We're beat ! I made him no answer . 
I sat staring before me , trying in vain to devise some countervailing thought . 
This isn't a war , said the artilleryman . 
It never was a war , any more than there's war between man and ants . 
Suddenly I recalled the night in the observatory . 
After the tenth shot they fired no more at least , until the first cylinder came . 
How do you know ? said the artilleryman . 
Something wrong with the gun , he said . 
But what if there is ? They'll get it right again . 
And even if there's a delay , how can it alter the end ? It's just men and ants . 
That's what we are now just ants . 
Only Yes , I said . 
We sat looking at each other . 
And what will they do with us ? I said . 
That's what I've been thinking , he said that's what I've been thinking . 
After Weybridge I went south thinking . 
I saw what was up . 
Most of the people were hard at it squealing and exciting themselves . 
But I'm not so fond of squealing . 
I've been in sight of death once or twice I'm not an ornamental soldier , and at the best and worst , death it's just death . 
And it's the man that keeps on thinking comes through . 
I saw everyone tracking away south . 
Says I , Food won't last this way , and I turned right back . 
I went for the Martians like a sparrow goes for man . 
All round he waved a hand to the horizon they're starving in heaps , bolting , treading on each other . 
He saw my face , and halted awkwardly . 
No doubt lots who had money have gone away to France , he said . 
He seemed to hesitate whether to apolo gise , met my eyes , and went on There's food all about here . 
Canned things in shops wines , spirits , mineral waters and the water mains and drains are empty . 
Well , I was telling you what I was thinking . 
Here's intelligent things , I said , and it seems they want us for food . 
First , they'll smash us up ships , machines , guns , cities , all the order and organisa tion . 
If we were the size of ants we might pull through . 
It's all too bulky to stop . 
It is I've thought it out . 
Very well , then next at present we're caught as we're wanted . 
A Martian has only to go a few miles to get a crowd on the run . 
And I saw one , one day , out by Wandsworth , picking houses to pieces and routing among the wreckage . 
But they won't keep on doing that . 
That's what they will start doing in a bit . 
Lord ! They haven't begun on us yet . 
Don't you see that ? Not begun ! I exclaimed . 
All that's happened so far is through our not having the sense to keep quiet worrying them with guns and such foolery . 
And losing our heads , and rushing off in crowds to where there wasn't any more safety than where we were . 
They don't want to bother us yet . 
They're making their things making all the things they couldn't bring with them , getting things ready for the rest of their people . 
Very likely that's why the cylinders have stopped for a bit , for fear of hitting those who are here . 
That's how I figure it out . 
It isn't quite according to what a man wants for his species , but it's about what the facts point to . 
And that's the principle I acted upon . 
Cities , nations , civilisation , progress it's all over . 
But if that is so , what is there to live for ? The artilleryman looked at me for a moment . 
There won't be any more blessed concerts for a million years or so there won't be any Royal Academy of Arts , and no nice little feeds at restaurants . 
If it's amusement you're after , I reckon the game is up . 
If you've got any drawing room manners or a dislike to eating peas with a knife or dropping aitches , you'd better chuck 'em away . 
They ain't no further use . 
You mean I mean that men like me are going on living for the sake of the breed . 
I tell you , I'm grim set on living . 
And if I'm not mistaken , you'll show what insides YOU'VE got , too , before long . 
We aren't going to be exterminated . 
And I don't mean to be caught either , and tamed and fattened and bred like a thundering ox . 
Ugh ! Fancy those brown creepers ! You don't mean to say I do . 
I'm going on , under their feet . 
I've got it planned I've thought it out . 
We've got to learn before we've got a chance . 
And we've got to live and keep independent while we learn . 
See ! That's what has to be done . 
I stared , astonished , and stirred profoundly by the man's resolution . 
Great God ! , cried I. But you are a man indeed ! And suddenly I gripped his hand . 
Eh ! he said , with his eyes shining . 
I've thought it out , eh ? Go on , I said . 
Well , those who mean to escape their catching must get ready . 
Mind you , it isn't all of us that are made for wild beasts and that's what it's got to be . 
That's why I watched you . 
I didn't know that it was you , you see , or just how you'd been buried . 
All these the sort of people that lived in these houses , and all those damn little clerks that used to live down that way they'd be no good . 
Lives insured and a bit invested for fear of accidents . 
And on Sundays fear of the hereafter . 
As if hell was built for rabbits ! Well , the Mar tians will just be a godsend to these . 
Nice roomy cages , fat tening food , careful breeding , no worry . 
After a week or so chasing about the fields and lands on empty stomachs , they'll come and be caught cheerful . 
They'll be quite glad after a bit . 
They'll wonder what people did before there were Martians to take care of them . 
And the bar loafers , and mashers , and singers I can imagine them . 
I can imagine them , he said , with a sort of sombre gratification . 
There'll be any amount of sentiment and religion loose among them . 
There's hundreds of things I saw with my eyes that I've only begun to see clearly these last few days . 
Very likely you've seen the same thing . 
It's energy in a gale of funk , and turned clean inside out . 
These cages will be full of psalms and hymns and piety . 
And those of a less simple sort will work in a bit of what is it ? eroticism . 
Very likely these Martians will make pets of some of them train them to do tricks who knows ? get sentimental over the pet boy who grew up and had to be killed . 
And some , maybe , they will train to hunt us . 
No , I cried , that's impossible ! No human being What's the good of going on with such lies ? said the artilleryman . 
There's men who'd do it cheerful . 
What non sense to pretend there isn't ! And I succumbed to his conviction . 
If they come after me , he said Lord , if they come after me ! and subsided into a grim meditation . 
I sat contemplating these things . 
I could find nothing to bring against this man's reasoning . 
What are you doing ? I said presently . 
What plans have you made ? He hesitated . 
Well , it's like this , he said . 
What have we to do ? We have to invent a sort of life where men can live and breed , and be sufficiently secure to bring the children up . 
Yes wait a bit , and I'll make it clearer what I think ought to be done . 
You see , how I mean to live is underground . 
I've been thinking about the drains . 
The main drains are big enough and airy enough for anyone . 
Then there's cellars , vaults , stores , from which bolting passages may be made to the drains . 
And the railway tunnels and subways . 
Eh ? You begin to see ? And we form a band able bodied , clean minded men . 
We're not going to pick up any rubbish that drifts in . 
As you meant me to go ? Well l parleyed , didn't I ? We won't quarrel about that . 
Those who stop obey orders . 
Able bodied , clean minded women we want also mothers and teachers . 
No lackadaisical ladies no blasted rolling eyes . 
We can't have any weak or silly . 
Life is real again , and the useless and cumbersome and mischievous have to die . 
They ought to be willing to die . 
It's a sort of disloyalty , after all , to live and taint the race . 
And they can't be happy . 
Moreover , dying's none so dreadful it's the funking makes it bad . 
And in all those places we shall gather . 
Our district will be London . 
And we may even be able to keep a watch , and run about in the open when the Martians keep away . 
Play cricket , per haps . 
That's how we shall save the race . 
Eh ? It's a possible thing ? But saving the race is nothing in itself . 
As I say , that's only being rats . 
It's saving our knowledge and adding to it is the thing . 
There men like you come in . 
There's books , there's models . 
We must make great safe places down deep , and get all the books we can not novels and poetry swipes , but ideas , science books . 
That's where men like you come in . 
We must go to the British Museum and pick all those books through . 
Especially we must keep up our science learn more . 
We must watch these Martians . 
Some of us must go as spies . 
When it's all working , perhaps I will . 
Get caught , I mean . 
And the great thing is , we must leave the Martians alone . 
If we get in their way , we clear out . 
We must show them we mean no harm . 
But they're intelligent things , and they won't hunt us down if they have all they want , and think we're just harmless vermin . 
The artilleryman paused and laid a brown hand upon my arm . 
Not a Martian in 'em , but men men who have learned the way how . 
It may be in my time , even those men . 
For a while the imaginative daring of the artilleryman , and the tone of assurance and courage he assumed , com pletely dominated my mind . 
Such a hole I could have dug in a day . 
But I believed in him sufficiently to work with him all that morning until past midday at his digging . 
We had a garden barrow and shot the earth we removed against the kitchen range . 
We refreshed ourselves with a tin of mock turtle soup and wine from the neighbouring pantry . 
I found a curious relief from the aching strangeness of the world in this steady labour . 
After working an hour I began to speculate on the distance one had to go before the cloaca was reached , the chances we had of missing it altogether . 
It seemed to me , too , that the house was inconveniently chosen , and required a needless length of tunnel . 
And just as I was beginning to face these things , the artilleryman stopped digging , and looked at me . 
We're working well , he said . 
He put down his spade . 
Let us knock off a bit he said . 
I think it's time we recon noitred from the roof of the house . 
I was for going on , and after a little hesitation he resumed his spade and then suddenly I was struck by a thought . 
I stopped , and so did he at once . 
Why were you walking about the common , I said , instead of being here ? Taking the air , he said . 
But the work ? Oh , one can't always work , he said , and in a flash I saw the man plain . 
He hesitated , holding his spade . 
We ought to reconnoitre now , he said , because if any come near they may hear the spades and drop upon us unawares . 
I was no longer disposed to object . 
We went together to the roof and stood on a ladder peeping out of the roof door . 
No Martians were to be seen , and we ventured out on the tiles , and slipped down under shelter of the parapet . 
The red creeper swarmed up the trees about the old palace , and their branches stretched gaunt and dead , and set with shrivelled leaves , from amid its clusters . 
It was strange how entirely dependent both these things were upon flowing water for their propagation . 
About us neither had gained a footing laburnums , pink mays , snowballs , and trees of arbor vitae , rose out of laurels and hydrangeas , green and brilliant into the sunlight . 
Beyond Kensington dense smoke was rising , and that and a blue haze hid the northward hills . 
The artilleryman began to tell me of the sort of people who still remained in London . 
A man who was there told me . 
And as the day came they became aware of a fighting machine standing near by the Langham and look ing down at them . 
Heaven knows how long he had been there . 
It must have given some of them a nasty turn . 
He came down the road towards them , and picked up nearly a hundred too drunk or frightened to run away . 
Grotesque gleam of a time no history will ever fully describe ! From that , in answer to my questions , he came round to his grandiose plans again . 
He talked so eloquently of the possibility of capturing a fighting machine that I more than half believed in him again . 
But now that I was beginning to understand something of his quality , I could divine the stress he laid on doing nothing precipitately . 
And I noted that now there was no question that he personally was to capture and fight the great machine . 
After a time we went down to the cellar . 
Neither of us seemed disposed to resume digging , and when he suggested a meal , I was nothing loath . 
He became suddenly very generous , and when we had eaten he went away and returned with some excellent cigars . 
We lit these , and his optimism glowed . 
He was inclined to regard my coming as a great occasion . 
There's some champagne in the cellar , he said . 
We can dig better on this Thames side burgundy , said I. No , said he I am host today . 
Champagne ! Great God ! We've a heavy enough task before us ! Let us take a rest and gather strength while we may . 
Look at these blistered hands ! And pursuant to this idea of a holiday , he insisted upon playing cards after we had eaten . 
He taught me euchre , and after dividing London between us , I taking the northern side and he the southern , we played for parish points . 
Afterwards he taught me poker , and I beat him at three tough chess games . 
When dark came we decided to take the risk , and lit a lamp . 
After an interminable string of games , we supped , and the artilleryman finished the champagne . 
We went on smoking the cigars . 
He was no longer the energetic regenerator of his species I had encountered in the morning . 
He was still optimistic , but it was a less kinetic , a more thoughtful optimism . 
I remember he wound up with my health , proposed in a speech of small variety and considerable intermittence . 
I took a cigar , and went upstairs to look at the lights of which he had spoken that blazed so greenly along the Highgate hills . 
At first I stared unintelligently across the London valley . 
The northern hills were shrouded in darkness the fires near Kensington glowed redly , and now and then an orange red tongue of flame flashed up and vanished in the deep blue night . 
All the rest of London was black . 
Then , nearer , I perceived a strange light , a pale , violet purple fluorescent glow , quivering under the night breeze . 
For a space I could not understand it , and then I knew that it must be the red weed from which this faint irradiation proceeded . 
With that realisation my dormant sense of wonder , my sense of the proportion of things , awoke again . 
I glanced from that to Mars , red and clear , glowing high in the west , and then gazed long and earnestly at the darkness of Hampstead and Highgate . 
I remained a very long time upon the roof , wondering at the grotesque changes of the day . 
I recalled my mental states from the midnight prayer to the foolish card playing . 
I had a violent revulsion of feeling . 
I remember I flung away the cigar with a certain wasteful symbolism . 
My folly came to me with glaring exaggeration . 
I seemed a traitor to my wife and to my kind I was filled with remorse . 
I resolved to leave this strange undisciplined dreamer of great things to his drink and gluttony , and to go on into London . 
There , it seemed to me , I had the best chance of learning what the Martians and my fellowmen were doing . 
I was still upon the roof when the late moon rose . 
CHAPTER EIGHT DEAD LONDON After I had parted from the artilleryman , I went down the hill , and by the High Street across the bridge to Fulham . 
The red weed was tumultuous at that time , and nearly choked the bridge roadway but its fronds were already whitened in patches by the spreading disease that presently removed it so swiftly . 
At the corner of the lane that runs to Putney Bridge station I found a man lying . 
He was as black as a sweep with the black dust , alive , but helplessly and speechlessly drunk . 
I could get nothing from him but curses and furious lunges at my head . 
I think I should have stayed by him but for the brutal expression of his face . 
There was black dust along the roadway from the bridge onwards , and it grew thicker in Fulham . 
The streets were horribly quiet . 
I got food sour , hard , and mouldy , but quite eatable in a baker's shop here . 
Some way towards Walham Green the streets became clear of powder , and I passed a white terrace of houses on fire the noise of the burning was an absolute relief . 
Going on towards Brompton , the streets were quiet again . 
Here I came once more upon the black powder in the streets and upon dead bodies . 
I saw altogether about a dozen in the length of the Fulham Road . 
They had been dead many days , so that I hurried quickly past them . 
The black powder covered them over , and softened their outlines . 
One or two had been disturbed by dogs . 
In some places plunderers had been at work , but rarely at other than the provision and wine shops . 
A jeweller's window had been broken open in one place , but apparently the thief had been disturbed , and a number of gold chains and a watch lay scattered on the pavement . 
I did not trouble to touch them . 
She seemed asleep , but she was dead . 
The farther I penetrated into London , the profounder grew the stillness . 
But it was not so much the stillness of death it was the stillness of suspense , of expectation . 
At any time the destruction that had already singed the northwestern borders of the metropolis , and had annihilated Ealing and Kilburn , might strike among these houses and leave them smoking ruins . 
It was a city condemned and derelict . 
In South Kensington the streets were clear of dead and of black powder . 
It was near South Kensington that I first heard the howling . 
It crept almost imperceptibly upon my senses . 
It was a sobbing alternation of two notes , Ulla , ulla , ulla , ulla , keeping on perpetually . 
When I passed streets that ran northward it grew in volume , and houses and buildings seemed to deaden and cut it off again . 
It came in a full tide down Exhibition Road . 
I stopped , staring towards Kensington Gardens , wondering at this strange , remote wailing . 
It was as if that mighty desert of houses had found a voice for its fear and solitude . 
Ulla , ulla , ulla , ulla , wailed that superhuman note great waves of sound sweeping down the broad , sunlit road way , between the tall buildings on each side . 
I turned north wards , marvelling , towards the iron gates of Hyde Park . 
I had half a mind to break into the Natural History Museum and find my way up to the summits of the towers , in order to see across the park . 
But I decided to keep to the ground , where quick hiding was possible , and so went on up the Exhibition Road . 
All the large mansions on each side of the road were empty and still , and my footsteps echoed against the sides of the houses . 
At the top , near the park gate , I came upon a strange sight a bus overturned , and the skeleton of a horse picked clean . 
I puzzled over this for a time , and then went on to the bridge over the Serpentine . 
The voice grew stronger and stronger , though I could see nothing above the housetops on the north side of the park , save a haze of smoke to the northwest . 
Ulla , ulla , ulla , ulla , cried the voice , coming , as it seemed to me , from the district about Regent's Park . 
The desolating cry worked upon my mind . 
The mood that had sustained me passed . 
The wailing took possession of me . 
I found I was intensely weary , footsore , and now again hungry and thirsty . 
It was already past noon . 
My mind ran on old friends that I had forgotten for years . 
I grew very thirsty after the heat of my long walk . 
With infinite trouble I managed to break into a public house and get food and drink . 
I was weary after eating , and went into the parlour behind the bar , and slept on a black horse hair sofa I found there . 
I awoke to find that dismal howling still in my ears , Ulla , ulla , ulla , ulla . 
I came upon him as if it were a matter of course . 
I watched him for some time , but he did not move . 
He appeared to be standing and yelling , for no reason that I could discover . 
I tried to formulate a plan of action . 
That perpetual sound of Ulla , ulla , ulla , ulla , confused my mind . 
Perhaps I was too tired to be very fearful . 
Certainly I was more curious to know the reason of this monotonous crying than afraid . 
He made a wide curve to avoid me , as though he feared I might prove a fresh competitor . 
As the yelping died away down the silent road , the wailing sound of Ulla , ulla , ulla , ulla , reasserted itself . 
I came upon the wrecked handling machine halfway to St . 
At first I thought a house had fallen across the road . 
It seemed as if it had driven blindly straight at the house , and had been over whelmed in its overthrow . 
It seemed to me then that this might have happened by a handling machine escaping from the guidance of its Martian . 
Wondering still more at all that I had seen , I pushed on towards Primrose Hill . 
Far away , through a gap in the trees , I saw a second Martian , as motionless as the first , standing in the park towards the Zoological Gardens , and silent . 
A little beyond the ruins about the smashed handling machine I came upon the red weed again , and found the Regent's Canal , a spongy mass of dark red vegetation . 
As I crossed the bridge , the sound of Ulla , ulla , ulla , ulla , ceased . 
It was , as it were , cut off . 
The silence came like a thunderclap . 
The dusky houses about me stood faint and tall and dim the trees towards the park were growing black . 
All about me the red weed clambered among the ruins , writhing to get above me in the dimness . 
Night , the mother of fear and mystery , was coming upon me . 
Then suddenly a change , the passing of something I knew not what and then a stillness that could be felt . 
Nothing but this gaunt quiet . 
London about me gazed at me spectrally . 
The windows in the white houses were like the eye sockets of skulls . 
About me my imagination found a thousand noiseless enemies moving . 
Terror seized me , a horror of my temerity . 
In front of me the road became pitchy black as though it was tarred , and I saw a contorted shape lying across the pathway . 
I could not bring myself to go on . 
John's Wood Road , and ran headlong from this unendurable stillness towards Kilburn . 
I hid from the night and the silence , until long after midnight , in a cabmen's shelter in Harrow Road . 
But before the dawn my courage returned , and while the stars were still in the sky I turned once more towards Regent's Park . 
I missed my way among the streets , and presently saw down a long avenue , in the half light of the early dawn , the curve of Primrose Hill . 
On the summit , towering up to the fading stars , was a third Martian , erect and motionless like the others . 
An insane resolve possessed me . 
I would die and end it . 
And I would save myself even the trouble of killing myself . 
At that my heart gave a bound , and I began running along the road . 
I hurried through the red weed that choked St . 
, and emerged upon the grass before the rising of the sun . 
Against the sky line an eager dog ran and disappeared . 
The thought that had flashed into my mind grew real , grew credible . 
I felt no fear , only a wild , trembling exultation , as I ran up the hill towards the motionless monster . 
Out of the hood hung lank shreds of brown , at which the hungry birds pecked and tore . 
In another moment I had scrambled up the earthen ram part and stood upon its crest , and the interior of the redoubt was below me . 
A mighty space it was , with gigantic machines here and there within it , huge mounds of material and strange shelter places . 
For so it had come about , as indeed I and many men might have foreseen had not terror and disaster blinded our minds . 
These germs of disease have taken toll of humanity since the beginning of things taken toll of our prehuman ancestors since life began here . 
But there are no bacteria in Mars , and directly these invaders arrived , directly they drank and fed , our microscopic allies began to work their overthrow . 
Already when I watched them they were irrevocably doomed , dying and rotting even as they went to and fro . 
For neither do men live nor die in vain . 
To me also at that time this death was incompre hensible . 
All I knew was that these things that had been alive and so terrible to men were dead . 
For a moment I believed that the destruction of Sennacherib had been repeated , that God had repented , that the Angel of Death had slain them in the night . 
I stood staring into the pit , and my heart lightened glori ously , even as the rising sun struck the world to fire about me with his rays . 
A multitude of dogs , I could hear , fought over the bodies that lay darkly in the depth of the pit , far below me . 
Death had come not a day too soon . 
They glittered now , harmless tripod towers of shining metal , in the brightness of the rising sun . 
All about the pit , and saved as by a miracle from ever lasting destruction , stretched the great Mother of Cities . 
Those who have only seen London veiled in her sombre robes of smoke can scarcely imagine the naked clearness and beauty of the silent wilderness of houses . 
Far away and blue were the Surrey hills , and the towers of the Crystal Palace glittered like two silver rods . 
Paul's was dark against the sunrise , and injured , I saw for the first time , by a huge gaping cavity on its western side . 
Even that day the healing would begin . 
Whatever destruction was done , the hand of the destroyer was stayed . 
At the thought I extended my hands towards the sky and began thanking God . 
In a year , thought I in a year . 
With overwhelming force came the thought of myself , of my wife , and the old life of hope and tender helpfulness that had ceased for ever . 
CHAPTER NINE WRECKAGE And now comes the strangest thing in my story . 
Yet , perhaps , it is not altogether strange . 
I remember , clearly and coldly and vividly , all that I did that day until the time that I stood weeping and praising God upon the summit of Prim rose Hill . 
Of the next three days I know nothing . 
I have learned since that , so far from my being the first discoverer of the Martian overthrow , several such wanderers as myself had already discovered this on the previous night . 
One man the first had gone to St . 
Martin's le Grand , and , while I sheltered in the cabmen's hut , had contrived to telegraph to Paris . 
The church bells that had ceased a fortnight since suddenly caught the news , until all England was bell ringing . 
Men on cycles , lean faced , unkempt , scorched along every country lane shouting of unhoped deliverance , shouting to gaunt , staring figures of despair . 
And for the food ! Across the Channel , across the Irish Sea , across the Atlantic , corn , bread , and meat were tearing to our relief . 
All the shipping in the world seemed going Londonward in those days . 
But of all this I have no memory . 
I drifted a demented man . 
I found myself in a house of kindly people , who had found me on the third day wandering , weeping , and raving through the streets of St . 
Apparently they had learned something of my story from me during the days of my lapse . 
Very gently , when my mind was assured again , did they break to me what they had learned of the fate of Leather head . 
Two days after I was imprisoned it had been destroyed , with every soul in it , by a Martian . 
He had swept it out of existence , as it seemed , without any provocation , as a boy might crush an ant hill , in the mere wantonness of power . 
I was a lonely man , and they were very kind to me . 
I was a lonely man and a sad one , and they bore with me . 
I remained with them four days after my recovery . 
All that time I felt a vague , a growing craving to look once more on whatever remained of the little life that seemed so happy and bright in my past . 
It was a mere hopeless desire to feast upon my misery . 
They did all they could to divert me from this morbidity . 
Already they were busy with returning people in places even there were shops open , and I saw a drinking fountain running water . 
So many people were abroad everywhere , busied in a thousand activities , that it seemed incredible that any great proportion of the population could have been slain . 
Their faces seemed all with one of two expressions a leaping exultation and energy or a grim resolution . 
Save for the expression of the faces , London seemed a city of tramps . 
The vestries were indiscriminately distributing bread sent us by the French government . 
The ribs of the few horses showed dismally . 
Haggard special constables with white badges stood at the corners of every street . 
I saw little of the mischief wrought by the Martians until I reached Welling ton Street , and there I saw the red weed clambering over the buttresses of Waterloo Bridge . 
It was the placard of the first newspaper to resume publication the DAILY MAIL . 
I bought a copy for a blackened shilling I found in my pocket . 
Most of it was in blank , but the solitary compositor who did the thing had amused himself by making a grotesque scheme of ad vertisement stereo on the back page . 
The matter he printed was emotional the news organisation had not as yet found its way back . 
I learned nothing fresh except that already in one week the examination of the Martian mechanisms had yielded astonishing results . 
Among other things , the article assured me what I did not believe at the time , that the Secret of Flying , was discovered . 
At Waterloo I found the free trains that were taking people to their homes . 
The first rush was already over . 
There were few people in the train , and I was in no mood for casual conversation . 
I got a com partment to myself , and sat with folded arms , looking greyly at the sunlit devastation that flowed past the windows . 
And just outside the terminus the train jolted over temporary rails , and on either side of the railway the houses were blackened ruins . 
All down the line from there the aspect of the country was gaunt and unfamiliar Wimbledon particularly had suf fered . 
Walton , by virtue of its unburned pine woods , seemed the least hurt of any place along the line . 
The Wandle , the Mole , every little stream , was a heaped mass of red weed , in appearance between butcher's meat and pickled cabbage . 
The Surrey pine woods were too dry , however , for the festoons of the red climber . 
Beyond Wimbledon , within sight of the line , in certain nursery grounds , were the heaped masses of earth about the sixth cylinder . 
A number of people were standing about it , and some sappers were busy in the midst of it . 
Over it flaunted a Union Jack , flapping cheerfully in the morning breeze . 
The nursery grounds were everywhere crimson with the weed , a wide expanse of livid colour cut with purple shadows , and very painful to the eye . 
One's gaze went with infinite relief from the scorched greys and sullen reds of the foreground to the blue green softness of the eastward hills . 
For a time I stood regarding these vestiges . 
A man standing at an open cottage door greeted me by name as I passed . 
I looked at my house with a quick flash of hope that faded immediately . 
The door had been forced it was unfast and was opening slowly as I approached . 
The curtains of my study fluttered out of the open window from which I and the artilleryman had watched the dawn . 
No one had closed it since . 
The smashed bushes were just as I had left them nearly four weeks ago . 
I stumbled into the hall , and the house felt empty . 
The stair carpet was ruffled and discoloured where I had crouched , soaked to the skin from the thunderstorm the night of the catastrophe . 
Our muddy footsteps I saw still went up the stairs . 
For a space I stood reading over my aban doned arguments . 
I remembered my inability to fix my mind that morning , scarcely a month gone by , and how I had broken off to get my DAILY CHRONICLE from the newsboy . 
I remembered how I went down to the garden gate as he came along , and how I had listened to his odd story of Men from Mars . 
I came down and went into the dining room . 
There were the mutton and the bread , both far gone now in decay , and a beer bottle overturned , just as I and the artilleryman had left them . 
I perceived the folly of the faint hope I had cherished so long . 
And then a strange thing occurred . 
It is no use , said a voice . 
No one has been here these ten days . 
Do not stay here to torment yourself . 
No one escaped but you . 
Had I spoken my thought aloud ? I turned , and the French window was open behind me . 
I made a step to it , and stood looking out . 
And there , amazed and afraid , even as I stood amazed and afraid , were my cousin and my wife my wife white and tearless . 
She gave a faint cry . 
I came , she said . 
I knew knew She put her hand to her throat swayed . 
I made a step forward , and caught her in my arms . 
In one respect I shall certainly provoke criticism . 
My particular province is speculative philosophy . 
I have assumed that in the body of my narrative . 
At any rate , in all the bodies of the Martians that were examined after the war , no bacteria except those already known as terrestrial species were found . 
That they did not bury any of their dead , and the reckless slaughter they per petrated , point also to an entire ignorance of the putrefactive process . 
But probable as this seems , it is by no means a proven conclusion . 
Neither is the composition of the Black Smoke known , which the Martians used with such deadly effect , and the generator of the Heat Rays remains a puzzle . 
The terrible disasters at the Ealing and South Kensington laboratories have disinclined analysts for further investigations upon the latter . 
But such unproven speculations will scarcely be of interest to the general reader , to whom this story is addressed . 
None of the brown scum that drifted down the Thames after the destruction of Shepperton was examined at the time , and now none is forthcoming . 
The results of an anatomical examination of the Martians , so far as the prowling dogs had left such an examination possible , I have already given . 
A question of graver and universal interest is the possi bility of another attack from the Martians . 
I do not think that nearly enough attention is being given to this aspect of the matter . 
At present the planet Mars is in conjunction , but with every return to opposition I , for one , anticipate a renewal of their adventure . 
In any case , we should be prepared . 
It seems to me that they have lost a vast advantage in the failure of their first surprise . 
Possibly they see it in the same light . 
Lessing has advanced excellent reasons for supposing that the Martians have actually succeeded in effecting a landing on the planet Venus . 
Seven months ago now , Venus and Mars were in alignment with the sun that is to say , Mars was in opposition from the point of view of an observer on Venus . 
One needs to see the drawings of these ap pearances in order to appreciate fully their remarkable resemblance in character . 
At any rate , whether we expect another invasion or not , our views of the human future must be greatly modified by these events . 
The broadening of men's views that has resulted can scarcely be exaggerated . 
Before the cylinder fell there was a general persuasion that through all the deep of space no life existed beyond the petty surface of our minute sphere . 
Dim and wonderful is the vision I have conjured up in my mind of life spreading slowly from this little seed bed of the solar system throughout the inanimate vastness of sidereal space . 
But that is a remote dream . 
It may be , on the other hand , that the destruction of the Martians is only a reprieve . 
To them , and not to us , perhaps , is the future ordained . 
I must confess the stress and danger of the time have left an abiding sense of doubt and insecurity in my mind . 
Of a night I see the black powder darkening the silent streets , and the contorted bodies shrouded in that layer they rise upon me tattered and dog bitten . 
They gibber and grow fiercer , paler , uglier , mad distortions of humanity at last , and I wake , cold and wretched , in the darkness of the night . 
And strangest of all is it to hold my wife's hand again , and to think that I have counted her , and that she has counted me , among the dead . 
