Scanned and proofed by David Price , ccx coventry . 
uk Notes for proofers are available just email me . 
Ebenezer and Samuel Wilson soon became esteemed citizens of the infant city , their kindliness and benevolence winning for them the affection and respect of the community . 
It is a curious coincidence that England also should have taken an ex army contractor as her patron saint , for if we are to believe tradition , St . 
George of Cappadocia filled that position unsatisfactorily before he passed through martyrdom to sainthood . 
which he pencilled on all provisions that had passed his inspection became in the eyes of officers and soldiers a guarantee of excellence . 
One story in particular used to charm our boyish ears . 
and extracting from this original strong box title deeds to the property in litigation . 
Once Caliban is installed in his stronghold , peace and independence desert that roof . 
It is cheering to know that societies have been formed for the protection of dumb brutes and helpless children . 
The more one thinks about this curious exception in their favor the more unaccountable it appears . 
We neglect such wild things as we do not slaughter , and exact toil from domesticated animals in return for their keep . 
Dogs alone , shirking all cares and labor , live in idle comfort at man's expense . 
, no canine has raised a paw to do an honest day's work , neither has any member of the genus been known voluntarily to perform a useful act . 
The number of human beings who manage to live on their friends is small , whereas the veriest mongrel cur contrives to enjoy food and lodging at some dupe's expense . 
Facts such as these , however , have not over thrown the great dog myth . 
One can hardly open a child's book without coming across some tale of canine intelligence and devotion . 
My tender youth was saddened by the story of one disinterested dog that refused to leave his master's grave and was found frozen at his post on a bleak winter's morning . 
I have written the richest and most simple minded couple , because centuries of self seeking have developed in these beasts an especial aptitude for spotting possible victims at a glance . 
There is a house not a square away from Mr. Gerry's philanthropic headquarters , where a state of things exists calculated to extract tears from a custom house official . 
Two elderly virgins are there held in bondage by a Minotaur no bigger than your two fists . 
These good dames have a taste for travelling , but change of climate disagrees with their tyrant . 
These spinsters , although loving sisters , no longer go about together , Caligula's nerves being so shaken that solitude upsets them . 
The care that is lavished on those heathen monsters passes belief . 
What little lingering belief I had in canine fidelity succumbed then I was told that St . 
Innocent ? Pshaw ! Their pretty , coaxing ways and pretences of affection are unadulterated guile their ostentatious devotion , simply a clever manoeuvre to excite interest and obtain unmerited praise . 
It is useless , however , to hope that things will change . 
While other animals are valued for sleek coats and slender proportions , canine monstrosities have always been in demand . 
to a watery grave at birth . 
is about a donkey , for years the silent victim of a little terrier who had been trained to lead him to water and back . 
Finally , one day after months of waiting , the patient victim's chance came . 
Getting his tormentor well out into deep water , the donkey quietly sat down on him . 
to consult a vet as to how the life of the precious legatees might be prolonged to the utmost . 
His advice was to stop all sweets and rich food and give each of the animals at least three hours of hard exercise a day . 
From that moment the lazy brutes led a dog's life . 
Those two tales give me the keenest pleasure . 
Chapter Cyrano , Rostand , Coquelin AMONG the proverbs of Spanish folk lore there is a saying that good wine retains its flavor in spite of rude bottles and cracked cups . 
The success of M. Rostand's brilliant drama , CYRANO DE BERGERAC , in its English dress proves once more the truth of this adage . 
In this way we profit by the vast labor and study which Rostand and Coquelin gave to the original production . 
Rumors of the success attained by this play in Paris soon floated across to us . 
The two or three French booksellers here could not import the piece fast enough to meet the ever increasing demand of our reading public . 
By the time spring came , there were few cultivated people who had not read the new work and discussed its original language and daring treatment . 
On arriving in Paris , my first evening was passed at the Porte St . 
After the piece was over , I dropped into Coquelin's dressing room to shake this old acquaintance by the hand and give him news of his many friends in America . 
Coquelin in his dressing room is one of the most delightful of mortals . 
The effort of playing sets his blood in motion and his wit sparkling . 
The conversation naturally turned during supper on the piece and this new author who had sprung in a night from obscurity to a globe embracing fame . 
which passed almost unnoticed at the Francais . 
About four years ago Sarah Bernhardt asked me to her hotel' to hear M. Rostand read a play he had just completed for her . 
I accepted reluctantly , as at that moment we were busy at the theatre . 
I also doubted if there could be much in the new play to interest me . 
It was LA PRINCESSE LOINTAINE . 
I shall remember that afternoon as long as I live ! From the first line my attention was riveted and my senses were charmed . 
What struck me as even more remarkable than the piece was the masterly power and finish with which the boyish author delivered his lines . 
Where , I asked myself , had he learned that difficult art ? The great actress , always quick to respond to the voice of art , accepted the play then and there . 
After the reading was over I walked home with M. Rostand , and had a long talk with him about his work and ambitions . 
without reading it , to cancel any engagements I may have on hand , and produce your piece with the least possible delay . 
An offer I don't imagine many young poets have ever received , and which I certainly never before made to any author . 
I was delighted with the idea , and told him to go ahead . 
A month later we met in the street . 
On asking him how the play was progressing , to my astonishment he answered that he had abandoned that idea and hit upon something entirely different . 
Chance had thrown in his way an old volume of Cyrano de Bergerac's poems , which so delighted him that he had been reading up the life and death of that unfortunate poet . 
At first this idea struck me as unfortunate . 
The elder Dumas had worked that vein so well and so completely , I doubted if any literary gold remained for another author . 
It seemed foolhardy to resuscitate the THREE GUARDSMEN epoch and I doubted if it were possible to carry out his idea and play an intense and pathetic role disguised with a burlesque nose . 
This contrasting of the grotesque and the sentimental was of course not new . 
Victor Hugo had broken away from classic tradition when he made a hunchback the hero of a drama . 
There remained , however , the risk of our Parisian public not accepting the new situation seriously . 
It seemed to me like bringing the sublime perilously near the ridiculous . 
Fortunately , Rostand did not share this opinion or my doubts . 
He was full of enthusiasm for his piece and confident of its success . 
Before we parted the poet had convinced me . 
The role , as he conceived it , was certainly original , and therefore tempting , opening vast possibilities before my dazzled eyes . 
He was at my rooms the next day before I was up , sitting on the side of my bed , reading the result of his labor . 
As the story unfolded itself I was more and more delighted . 
His idea of resuscitating the quaint interior of the Hotel de Bourgogne Theatre was original , and the balcony scene , even in outline , enchanting . 
After the reading Rostand dashed off as he had come , and for many weeks I saw no more of him . 
LA PRINCESSE LOINTAINE was , in the meantime , produced by Sarah , first in London and then in Paris . 
The play turns on her youth and innocence . 
The failure of his play produced the most disastrous effect on Rostand , who had given up a year of his life to its composition and was profoundly chagrined by its fall . 
He sank into a mild melancholy , refusing for more than eighteen months to put pen to paper . 
On the rare occasions when we met I urged him to pull himself together and rise above disappointment . 
Little by little , his friends were able to awaken his dormant interest and get him to work again on CYRANO . 
Little by little , line upon line , the masterpiece grew under his hands . 
As the work began taking form , Rostand hired a place in the country , so that no visitors or invitations might tempt him away from his daily toil . 
That no success is cheaply bought I have long known my profession above all others is calculated to teach one that truth . 
I have there in my desk whole scenes that he discarded because they were not essential to the action of the piece . 
They will probably never be printed , yet are as brilliant and cost their author as much labor as any that the public applauded to night . 
As our rehearsals proceeded I saw another side of Rostand's character the energy and endurance hidden in his almost effeminate frame astonished us all . 
He almost lived at the theatre , drilling each actor , designing each costume , ordering the setting of each scene . 
There was not a dress that he did not copy from some old print , or a PASSADE that he did not indicate to the humblest member of the troop . 
The marvellous diction that I had noticed during the reading at Sarah's served him now and gave the key to the entire performance . 
The news was somehow spread among the theatre loving public that something out if the ordinary was in preparation . 
The papers took up the tale and repeated it until the whole capital was keyed up to concert pitch . 
The opening night was eagerly awaited by the critics , the literary and the artistic worlds . 
When the curtain rose on the first act there was the emotion of a great event floating in the air . 
Here Coquelin's face assumed an intense expression I had rarely seen there before . 
He was back on the stage , living over again the glorious hours of that night's triumph . 
His breath was coming quick and his eyes aglow with the memory of that evening . 
Never , never have I lived through such an evening . 
Victor Hugo's greatest triumph , the first night of HERNANI , was the only theatrical event that can compare to it . 
It , however , was injured by the enmity of a clique who persistently hissed the new play . 
There is but one phrase to express the enthusiasm at our first performance UNE SALLE EN DELIRE gives some idea of what took place . 
As the curtain fell on each succeeding act the entire audience would rise to its feet , shouting and cheering for ten minutes at a time . 
The coulisse and the dressing rooms were packed by the critics and the author's friends , beside themselves with delight . 
I was trembling so I could hardly get from one costume into another , and had to refuse my door to every one . 
Amid all this confusion Rostand alone remained cool and seemed unconscious of his victory . 
It struck two o'clock as Coquelin ended . 
The sleepless city had at last gone to rest . 
As I turned to go , Coquelin took my hand and remarked , smiling Now you have heard the story of a genius , an actor , and a masterpiece . 
Ha ! ha ! I think when one of these appears , here is something worth opening ! For between ourselves , reader mine , old bachelors love to receive notes from women . 
It's so flattering to be remembered by the dear creatures , and recalls the time when life was beginning , and POULETS in feminine writing suggested such delightful possibilities . 
Only this morning an envelope of delicate Nile green caused me a distinct thrill of anticipation . 
To judge by appearances it could contain nothing less attractive than a declaration , so , tearing it hurriedly open , I read Messrs . 
So complex has life become in these later days that the very beds we lie on and the meals we eat are controlled by patents . 
lose their nap prematurely in the process . 
This , alas ! was not done . 
Nothing has remained sacred to the inventor . 
Originally , tags were the backbone of the toilet , different garments being held together by their aid . 
Later , buttons and attendant button holes were evolved , now replaced by the devices used in composing the machine made man . 
, nothing so archaic as a button hole is employed at the present time by our patent ridden compatriots . 
The owner is obliged to enter into those deceptive garments surreptitiously from the rear , by stratagem , as it were . 
, where some hidden mechanism screwed or clinched them to their moorings . 
are now a labyrinth , in which all but the initiated must lose themselves , being double decked , detachable , reversible , and made of every known substance except linen . 
The cuff most in favor can be worn four different ways , and is attached to the shirt by a steel instrument three inches long , with a nipper at each end . 
The amount of white visible below the coat sleeve is regulated by another contrivance , mostly of elastic , worn further up the arm , around the biceps . 
Modern collars are retained in position by a system of screws and levers . 
Socks are attached no longer with the old fashioned garter , but by aid of a little harness similar to that worn by pug dogs . 
One traveller , after lacing his shoes , adjusted a contrivance resembling a black beetle on the knot to prevent its untying . 
This brace performs several tasks at the same time , such as holding unmentionable garments in place , keeping the wearer erect , and providing a night key guard . 
Here curiosity getting the better of discretion , I asked what purpose that invention served . 
It was graciously explained to me how such ruffs prevented theft . 
They were so made that it was impossible to draw your watch out of a pocket unless you knew the trick , which struck me as a mitigated blessing . 
In fact , the idea kept occurring that life might become terribly uncomfortable under these complex conditions for absent minded people . 
Pencils , I find , are no longer put into pockets or slipped behind the ear . 
Every commercial gent wears a patent on his chest , where his pen and pencil nestle in a coil of wire . 
Eyeglasses are not allowed to dangle aimlessly about , as of old , but retire with a snap into an oval box , after the fashion of roller shades . 
Scarf pins have guards screwed on from behind , and undergarments but here modesty stops my pen . 
Seeing that I was interested in their make up , several travelling agents on the train got out their boxes and showed me the latest artifices that could be attached to the person . 
A third traveller was pushing a collar button that plied as many trades as Figaro , combining the functions of cravat holder , stud , and scarf pin . 
No tie thus made , he said , would ever slip or get crooked . 
It takes an hour to tie a cravat with its aid , and as long to get it untied . 
Most of the men in that car , I found , got around the difficulty by wearing ready made ties which fastened behind with a clasp . 
The foolhardy daring it must require dressed as those men were to go out in a thunder storm makes one shudder it certainly could not be found in any other race . 
To day the inventor takes the American baby from his cradle and does not release him even at the grave . 
Both will probably misquote Tennyson and Kipling in support of their theories . 
As we drove away , my companion turned to me and said , Don't forget this afternoon . 
You have seen one of the greatest writers our century has produced , although the world does not yet realize it . 
There is , perhaps , in all Paris no more exquisite corner than the Garden of the Luxembourg . 
At every season it is beautiful . 
The winter sunlight seems to linger on its stately Italian terraces after it has ceased to shine elsewhere . 
Surely it was a gracious inspiration that selected this shady park as the Poets' Corner of great , new Paris . 
Henri Murger , Leconte de Lisle , Theodore de Banville , Paul Verlaine , are here , and now Sainte Beuve has come back to his favorite haunt . 
The literary world of my day had two poles , between which it vibrated . 
The little house in the rue Montparnasse was one , the rock of Guernsey the other . 
We spoke with awe of Father Hugo' and mentioned Uncle Beuve' with tenderness . 
The Goncourt brothers accepted Sainte Beuve's judgment on their work as the verdict of a Supreme Court . 
Not a poet or author of that day but climbed with a beating heart the narrow staircase that led to the great writer's library . 
Paul Verlaine regarded as his literary diploma a letter from this Balzac de la critique . 
in a room hired under the assumed name of Delorme . 
It was there that we sent him a basket of fruit one morning addressed to Mr. Delorme , NE Sainte Beuve . 
It was there that most of his enormous labor was accomplished . 
A curious corner of old Paris that Cour du Commerce ! Just opposite his window was the apartment where Danton lived . 
The doctor's name was Guillotin . 
The great critic loved these old quarters filled with history . 
He was fond of explaining that Montparnasse had been a hill where the students of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries came to amuse themselves . 
In the slope was levelled and the boulevard laid out , but the name was predestined , he would declare , for the habitation of the Parnassiens . 
His enemies pretended that you had but to mention Michelet , Balzac , and Victor Hugo to see Sainte Beuve in three degrees of rage . 
He had , it is true , distinct expressions on hearing those authors discussed . 
The phrase then much used in speaking of an original personality , He is like a character out of Balzac , always threw my master into a temper . 
He had a way of reading a newly acquired volume as he walked through the streets that was typical of his life . 
My master was always studying and always advancing . 
He never entirely recovered from his mortification at being hissed by the students on the occasion of his first lecture at the College de France . 
Returning home he loaded two pistols , one for the first student who should again insult him , and the other to blow out his own brains . 
It was no idle threat . 
The man Guizot had nicknamed Werther' was capable of executing his plan , for this causeless unpopularity was anguish to him . 
After his death , I found those two pistols loaded in his bedroom , but justice had been done another way . 
Every student in the Quarter' followed the modest funeral of their Senator , who had become the champion of literary liberty in an epoch when poetry was held in chains . 
The Empire which made him Senator gained , however , but an indocile recruit . 
On his one visit to Compiegne in , the Emperor , wishing to be particularly gracious , said to him , I always read the MONITEUR on Monday , when your article appears . 
Unfortunately for this compliment , it was the CONSTITUTIONNEL that had been publishing the NOUVEAUX LUNDIS for more than four years . 
In spite of the united efforts of his friends , Sainte Beuve could not be brought to the point of complimenting Napoleon III . 
on his LIFE OF CAESAR . 
The author of LES CONSOLATIONS remained through life the proudest and most independent of men , a bourgeois , enemy of all tyranny , asking protection of no one . 
And what a worker ! Reading , sifting , studying , analyzing his subject before composing one of his famous LUNDIS , a literary portrait which he aimed at making complete and final . 
One of these articles cost him as much labor as other authors give to the composition of a volume . 
de Lespinasse , la Marechale de Luxembourg . 
The hours flew by unheeded by all of his guests but one . 
The DEBUTANTE was overheard confiding , later in the evening , to a friend at the Gymnase , where she performed in the last act , Ouf ! I'm glad to get here . 
I ve been dining with a stupid old Senator . 
They told me he would be amusing , but I've been bored to death . 
His disappointment at not seeing the performance was so keen that M. Thierry , then ADMINISTRATEUR of La Comedie , took Mlle . 
Favart to the rue Montparnasse , that she might recite his verses to the dying writer . 
The sun had set while he had been speaking . 
The marble of the statues gleamed white against the shadows of the sombre old garden . 
The guardians were closing the gates and warning the lingering visitors as we strolled toward the entrance . 
It was like returning from another age , to step out again into the glare and bustle of the Boulevard St . 
rise like gigantic weeds gone to seed in a field of grass . 
It is the heterogeneous character of the buildings down town that renders our streets so hideous . 
Dainty little duodecimo buildings are squeezed in between towering in folios , and richly bound and tooled octavos chum with cheap editions . 
It is almost impossible to get mathematically opposite a building , yet that is the only point from which these new constructions are not grotesque . 
It seems as though the rudiments of common sense would suggest that under existing circumstances the less decoration put on a facade the greater would be the harmony of the whole . 
As long as the ground floors and the tops of their creations are elaborate , the designer evidently thinks the intervening twelve or fifteen stories can shift for themselves . 
One clumsy mass on the Bowling Green is an excellent example of this weakness . 
Its ground floor is a playful reproduction of the tombs of Egypt . 
Indeed , this desire for a brilliant finish pervades the neighborhood . 
is sober and discreet in design for a dozen stories , but bursts at its top into a Byzantine colonnade . 
Why ? one asks in wonder . 
except some rather feeble statuary , and do seriously block the entrance . 
Farther up town our attention is arrested by another misplaced adornment . 
How did this craze for decoration originate ? The inhabitants of Florence and Athens did not consider it necessary . 
, with here and there a balcony hung out , emblematical , doubtless , of the inmates' wash and bedding . 
At the ninth floor the repentant architect adds two more stories in memory of the Doge's residence . 
hanging in a shop window ? The Twenty fifth Street Doge's Palace reminds me of that humble instrument . 
The wooden part , where the keys and round holes are , stands on the sidewalk . 
Then come an indefinite number of pleats , and finally the other wooden end well up among the clouds . 
So striking is this resemblance that at times one expects to hear the long drawn moans peculiar to the concertina issuing from those portals . 
One day the astonished neighborhood saw what appeared to be a roomy suburban villa of iron rising on the roof of the old Hoffman House . 
They can't be seen from the sidewalk , the street is too narrow for that , but such trifles don't deter builders from decorating when the fit is on them . 
Perhaps this one got his caryatides at a bargain , and had to work them in somewhere so it is not fair to be hard on him . 
If ever we take to ballooning , all these elaborate tops may add materially to our pleasure . 
At the present moment the birds , and angels , it is to be hoped , appreciate the effort . 
In almost every case where the architect has refrained from useless decoration and stuck to simple lines , the result , if not beautiful , has at least been inoffensive . 
It is where inappropriate elaboration is added that taste is offended . 
It's rather poor taste to brag of advantages that are enjoyed only through the generosity of one's neighbors . 
Business demands may force us to bow before the necessity of these horrors , but it certainly is rubbing it in to ask our applause . 
When the Eiffel Tower was in course of construction , the artists and literary lights of Paris raised a tempest of protest . 
One wonders why so little of the kind has been done here . 
One hears with satisfaction that a group of architects have lately met and discussed plans for the embellishment of our neglected city . 
There is a certain poetical justice in the proposition coming from those who have worked so much of the harm . 
Remorse has before now been known to produce good results . 
The United States treasury yearly receives large sums of conscience money . 
Chapter Worldly Color Blindness MYRIADS of people have no ear for music and derive but little pleasure from sweet sounds . 
Another large class find it impossible to discriminate between colors . 
Men afflicted in this way have even become painters of reputation . 
Both these classes are to be pitied , but are not the cause of much suffering to others . 
It is annoying , I grant you , to be torn asunder in a collision , because red and green lights on the switches combined into a pleasing harmony before the brakeman's eyes . 
What we cannot guard against is a variety of the genus HOMO which suffers from social color blindness . 
This contrast cannot be traced to the dulness or brilliancy of the entertainer and his wife . 
Neither can it be laid at the door of inexperience , for the worst offenders are often old hands at the game . 
The only explanation possible is that the owners of houses where one is bored are socially color blind , as cheerfully unconscious of their weakness as the keyless lady and the whistling abomination . 
Since increasing wealth has made entertaining general and lavish , this malady has become more and more apparent , until one is tempted to parody Mme . 
Roland's dying exclamation and cry , Hospitality ! hospitility ! what crimes are committed in thy name ! Entertaining is for many people but an excuse for ostentation . 
We can rarely tell what is passing in the minds of people about us . 
Let the novice flee from the allurements of such a host . 
One would expect that great worldly lights might learn by experience how fatal bungled entertainments can be , but such is not the case . 
Many well intentioned people continue sacrificing their friends on the altar of hospitality year after year with never a qualm of conscience or a sensation of pity for their victims . 
One practical lady of my acquaintance asks her guests alphabetically , commencing the season and the first leaf of her visiting list simultaneously and working steadily on through both to finis . 
One wonders what possible satisfaction a host can derive from providing fifty people with unwholesome food and drink at a fixed date . 
As we dine out constantly through the year , remarked Benedict , some return is necessary . 
After his departure we agreed that if he found it so easy it would not be worth our while to read his volume . 
Tender hearted people generally make bad hosts . 
They have a way of collecting the morally lame , halt , and blind into their drawing rooms that gives those apartments the air of a convalescent home . 
The moment a couple have placed themselves beyond the social pale , these purblind hosts conceive an affection for and lavish hospitality upon them . 
If such a host has been fortunate enough to get together a circle of healthy people , you may feel confident that at the last moment a leper will be introduced . 
This class of entertainers fail to see that society cannot he run on a philanthropic basis , and so insist on turning their salons into hospitals . 
I can't think why I asked the So and sos ! he will confide to you . 
The subtle laws of moral precedence are difficult reading for the most intelligent , and therefore remain sealed books to the afflicted mortals mentioned here . 
The delicate tact that , with no apparent effort , combines congenial elements into a delightful whole is lacking in their composition . 
The nice discrimination that presides over some households is replaced by a jovial indifference to other persons' feelings and prejudices . 
It is useless to enumerate instances people have suffered too severely at the hands of careless and incompetent hosts not to know pretty well what the title of this paper means . 
If the color blind would only refrain from painting , and the tone deaf not insist on inviting one to their concerts , the world would be a much more agreeable place . 
Chapter Idling in Mid Ocean TO those fortunate mortals from whom Poseidon exacts no tribute in crossing his broad domain , a transatlantic voyage must afford each year an ever new delight . 
The cares and worries of existence fade away and disappear in company with the land , in the deep bosom of the ocean buried . 
The book chosen with care remains uncut the sense of physical and mental rest is too exquisite to be broken by any effort , even the reading of a favorite author . 
Drowsy lapses into unconsciousness obscure the senses , like the transparent clouds that from time to time dim the sunlight . 
A distant bell in the wheel house chimes the lazy half hours . 
Groups of people come and go like figures on a lantern slide . 
A curiously detached reeling makes the scene and the actors in it as unreal as a painted ship manned by a shadowy crew . 
The inevitable child tumbles on its face and is picked up shrieking by tender parents energetic youths organize games of skill or discover whales on the horizon , without disturbing one's philosophic calm . 
I congratulate myself on having chosen a foreign line . 
For a week at least no familiar name will be spoken , no accustomed face appear . 
The galling harness of routine is loosened one breathes freely again conscious of the unoccupied hours in perspective . 
The welcome summons to luncheon comes as a pleasant shock . 
Is it possible that the morning has passed ? It seems to have but commenced . 
I rouse myself and descend to the cabin . 
Toward the end of the meal a rubicund Frenchman opposite makes the startling proposition that if I wish to send a message home he will undertake to have it delivered . 
At the invitation of this new acquaintance I ascend to the upper deck and watch his birds depart . 
message and address are rolled two or three together , and inserted into a piece of quill less than two inches long , which , however , they do not entirely fill . 
A moment later the pigeon is tossed up into the air , and we witness the working of that mysterious instinct which all our modern science leaves unexplained . 
In two or three days , according to the weather , we shall begin sending French pigeons on ahead of us toward Havre . 
with their tidings from mid ocean . 
He also tells me that the French fleet in the Mediterranean recently received messages from their comrades in the Baltic on the third day by these feathered envoys . 
Later in the day a compatriot , inspired doubtless by the morning's experiment , confided to me that he had hit on a great scheme , which he intends to develop on arriving . 
Ships provided with the parent fish can free one every twenty four hours , charged with the morning's mail . 
The inventor of this luminous idea has already designed the letter boxes that are to be strapped on the fishes' backs , and decided on a neat uniform for his postmen . 
It is amusing during the first days out to watch the people whom chance has thrown together into such close quarters . 
The occult power that impels a pigeon to seek its kind is feeble in comparison with the faculty that travellers develop under these circumstances for seeking out congenial spirits . 
Twelve hours do not pass before affinities draw together what was apparently a homogeneous mass has by that time grouped and arranged itself into three or four distinct circles . 
The sporty gentlemen in loud clothes have united in the bonds of friendship with the travelling agents and have chosen the smoking room as their headquarters . 
No mellow sunset or serene moonlight will tempt these comrades from the subtleties of poker the pool on the run is the event of their day . 
A portly prima donna is the centre of another circle . 
fill the sitting room , where the piano gets but little rest . 
Neither sunshine nor soft winds can draw them to the deck . 
Although too ill for the regular meals , this group eat and drink during fifteen out of the twenty four hours . 
The deck , however , is not deserted two fashionable dressmakers revel there . 
These sociable ladies asked the COMMISSAIRE at the start to introduce all the young unmarried men to them , as they wanted to be jolly . 
They have a numerous court around them , and champagne , like the conversation , flows freely . 
The American wife of a French ambassador sits on the captain's right . 
A turn of the diplomatic wheel is taking the lady to Madrid , where her position will call for supreme tact and self restraint . 
It is the high opinion I have of my countrywomen that has made me cavil , before now , on seeing them turned into elaborately dressed nullities by foolish and too adoring husbands . 
The voyage is wearing itself away . 
One dreams of throwing off the trammels of civilized existence and returning to the free life of older days . 
But here is Havre glittering in the distance against her background of chalk cliffs . 
People come on deck in strangely conventional clothes and with demure citified airs . 
Passengers of whose existence you were unaware suddenly make their appearance . 
Two friends meet near me for the first time . 
The brief holiday is over . 
With a sigh one comes back to the positive and the present , and patiently resumes the harness of life . 
He is not a bad sort of person at bottom , and ready to do one a friendly turn if it does not entail too great inconvenience . 
In short , a good fellow , whose principal defect is the profound conviction that he was born superior to the rest of mankind . 
What this individual is to his environment , Englishmen are to the world at large . 
Few idiosyncrasies get more quickly on American nerves or are further from our hearty attitude toward strangers . 
Given this and a number of other peculiarities , it seems curious that a certain class of Americans should be so anxious to live in England . 
Neither can it be art , nor the opera , one finds both better at home or on the Continent than in England . 
At least that side of society which the climbing stranger mostly affects . 
Other circles are charming , if a bit slow , and the Bohemia and semi Bohemia of London have a delicate flavor of their own . 
County society , that ideal life so attractive to American readers of British novels , is , taken on the whole , the most insipid existence conceivable . 
In England amusers are invited expressly to be funny anything uttered by one of these delightful individuals is sure to be received with much laughter . 
It is so simple that way ! One is prepared and knows when to laugh . 
Whereas amateur wit is confusing . 
It is not necessary , however , to accumulate proofs that this much described society is less intelligent than our own . 
Their authors have acknowledged it , and well they may . 
For from Scott and Dickens down to Hall Caine , American appreciation has gone far toward establishing the reputation of English writers at home . 
With more or less success as the new comers have been able to return satisfactory answers to the three primary questions . 
It is never about a place that they talk , but of the people they know . 
London to them is not the city of Dickens . 
It is a place where one may meet the Prince of Wales and perhaps obtain an entrance into his set . 
One description will cover most climbers . 
Next comes the discovery that the circle into which they have forced their way is not nearly as attractive as it appeared from a distance . 
Rise by your efforts higher each year , and then be careful to die before discovering that there is nothing at the top . 
The excitement of the struggle the rapture of the chase' are greater joys than achievement . 
Our ambitious friends naturally ignore this bit of philosophy . 
It is in Victoria's realm that foemen worthy of their steel await the conquerors . 
Home society was a too easy prey , opening its doors and laying down its arms at the first summons . 
Wily opponents with trump cards in their hands and a profound knowledge of Hoyle smilingly offer them seats . 
has been tasted , all home concoctions prove insipid . 
It is needless to say the invitation was accepted . 
As my train drew up at the little station , Madame Calve , in her trap , was the first person I saw , and no time was lost in getting EN ROUTE . 
During the hour passed on the poplar bordered road that leads straight and white across the country I had time to appreciate the transformation in the woman at my side . 
On the stage I am any part I may be playing , but am never really happy away from my hill there . 
As she spoke , a sun baked hamlet came in sight , huddled around the base of two tall towers that rose cool and gray in the noonday heat . 
All that wing , she added , is arranged for the convalescent girls whom I have sent down to me from the Paris hospitals for a cure of fresh air and simple food . 
Six years ago , just after I had bought this place , a series of operations became necessary which left me prostrated and anaemic . 
No tonics were of benefit . 
I grew weaker day by day , until the doctors began to despair of my life . 
It wasn't long before I felt life creeping back to my poor feeble body . 
The hot sun of our magic south was a more subtle tonic than any drug . 
The bells on the shaggy Tarbes ponies she was driving along the Languedoc road drew , on nearing her residence , a number of peasant children from their play . 
No punishment would keep me off the highway . 
Those pennies , if I'm not mistaken , will all be spent at the village pastry cook's within an hour . 
This was said with such a tender glance at the children that one realized the great artist was at home here , surrounded by the people she loved and understood . 
Since that day every moment of freedom from professional labor and every penny of her large income are spent at Cabrieres , building , planning , even farming , when her health permits . 
As I am always short of funds , the idea of abandoning this work is the only fear the future holds for me . 
With the vivacity peculiar to her character , my companion then whipped up her cobs and turned the conversation into gayer channels . 
The luncheon bell was ringing as we ascended the terrace steps . 
Those who have only seen the capricious diva on the stage or in Parisian salons can form little idea of the proprietress of Cabrieres . 
No shade of coquetry blurs the clear picture of her home life . 
The capped and saboted peasant women who waited on us were not more simple in their ways . 
Several times during the meal she left her seat to inquire after the comfort of some invalid girl or inspect the cooking in the adjacent kitchen . 
These wanderings were not , however , allowed to disturb the conversation , which flowed on after the mellow French fashion , enlivened by much wit and gay badinage . 
One of our hostess's anecdotes at her own expense was especially amusing . 
When in Venice , she told us , most prima donnas are carried to and from the opera in sedan chairs to avoid the risk of colds from the draughty gondolas . 
Next morning the hotel proprietor appeared with my coffee , and after hesitating a moment , remarked Well , we made a success of it last night . 
I mean the triumphal progress , he answered . 
I thought you understood ! We always organize one for the stars who visit Venice . 
The men who carried your chair last night were the waiters from the hotels . 
When I came back here after my first season in St . 
Petersburg and London the CURE requested me to sing at our local fete . 
I gladly consented , and , standing by his side on the steps of the MAIRIE , gave the great aria from the HUGUENOTS in my best manner . 
To my astonishment the performance was received in complete silence . 
Poor Calve , I heard an old friend of my mother's murmur . 
The effect was instantaneous ! Long before the end the performance was drowned in thunders of applause . 
Which proves that to be popular a singer must adapt herself to her audience . 
A late dinner brought us together again in a small dining room , the convalescents having eaten their simple meal and disappeared an hour before . 
She sang us stray bits of opera , alternating her music with scenes burlesqued from recent plays . 
At eleven o'clock the clatter of hoofs in the court warned us that the pleasant evening had come to an end . 
What was to those noblemen an unheard of luxury has become within the last decade one of the primary necessities of our life . 
In other less favored lands , the first spring days , the exquisite awakening of the world after a long winter , bring to the inhabitants a sensation of joy and renewed vitality . 
We , however , have discounted that enjoyment . 
Delicate gradations of temperature are lost on people who have been stewing for six months in a mixture of steam and twice breathed air . 
The other day I went with a friend to inspect some rooms he had been decorating in one of our public schools . 
The morning had been frosty , but by eleven o'clock the sun warmed the air uncomfortably . 
On entering the school we were met by a blast of heated air that was positively staggering . 
In the recitation rooms , where , as in all New York schoolrooms , the children were packed like dominoes in a box , the temperature could not have been under eighty five . 
If the rooms were too warm it was the janitor's fault , and he had gone out ! Twelve o'clock struck before we had finished our tour of inspection . 
It is to be doubted if anywhere else in the world could there be found such a procession of pasty faced , dull eyed youngsters as trooped past us down the stairs . 
Their appearance was the natural result of compelling children dressed for winter weather to sit many hours each day in hothouses , more suited to tropical plants than to growing human beings . 
A gentleman with us remarked with a sigh , I have been in almost every school in the city and find the same condition everywhere . 
It is terrible , but there doesn't seem to be any remedy for it . 
The taste for living in a red hot atmosphere is growing on our people even public vehicles have to be heated now to please the patrons . 
Much of our home life followed no family can be expected to gather in cheerful converse around a radiator . 
The pallor and dazed expression of the employees tell the same tale . 
I spoke to a youth the other day in an office about his appearance and asked if he was ill . 
Yes , he answered , I have had a succession of colds all winter . 
You see , my desk here is next to the radiator , so I am in a perpetual perspiration and catch cold as soon as I go out . 
Last winter I passed three months in a farmhouse , where the water froze in my room at night , and we had to wear overcoats to our meals . 
Yet I never had a cold there , and gained in weight and strength . 
Twenty years ago no palatial private residence was considered complete unless there was a stationary washstand in each bedroom . 
We looked pityingly on foreigners who did not enjoy these advantages , until one day we realized that the latter were in the right , and straightway stationary washstands disappeared . 
By this ingenious contrivance the little fresh air that formerly crept into a building is now excluded . 
Absurd as it may seem , it has become a distinction to have cool rooms . 
A drawing room filled with heat , the source of which remains invisible , is as characteristic of the parvenu as clanking chains on a harness or fine clothes worn in the street . 
An open fire is the eye of a room , which can no more be attractive without it than the human face can be beautiful if it lacks the visual organs . 
The gas fire bears about the same relation to the real thing as a glass eye does to a natural one , and produces much the same sensation . 
There is a tombstone in a New England grave yard the inscription on which reads I was well , I wanted to be better . 
As regards heating of our houses , it's to be feared that we have gone much the same road as the unfortunate New Englander . 
I don't mean to imply that he is now suffering from too much heat , but we , as a nation , certainly are . 
Janitors and parlor car conductors have replaced the wicked fairies of other days , but are apparently animated by their malignant spirit , and employ their hours of brief authority as cruelly . 
No witch dancing around her boiling cauldron was ever more joyful than the fireman of a modern hotel , as he gleefully turns more and more steam upon his helpless victims . 
Long acquaintance with that gentleman has convinced me that he cannot plead ignorance as an excuse for falling into these excesses . 
Perhaps the true one has not yet been found . 
Each house , almost each tree , was faithfully depicted , together with the crowds on the sidewalks and the carriages in the street . 
The whole scene was as different from the effect made by that thoroughfare to day as though five hundred and not fifty years had elapsed since the little book was printed . 
The picture breathed an atmosphere of calm and nameless quaintness that one finds now only in old provincial cities which have escaped the ravages of improvement . 
My companion sat with the book unfolded before her , in a smiling trance . 
Her mind had turned back to the far away days when she first trod those streets a bride , with all the pleasures and few of the cares of life to think about . 
I can remember , as if it were yesterday , going to drive with Lady B , the British ambassadress , in just such a conveyance . 
She drove four horses with feathers on their heads , when she used to come to Meurice's for me . 
I blush when I think that my frock was so scant that I had to raise the skirt almost to my knees in order to get into her carriage . 
In other ways our toilets were absurdly unsuited for every day wear we wore light scarves over our necks , and rarely used furlined pelisses . 
A little farther on was the world famous Maison Doree , where one almost expected to see Alfred de Musset and le docteur Veron dining with Dumas and Eugene Sue . 
That high two wheeled trap with the little tiger' standing up behind is a tilbury . 
We used to see the Count d'Orsay driving one like that almost every day . 
He wore butter colored gloves , and the skirts of his coat were pleated full all around , and stood out like a ballet girl's . 
Futile effort ! That evening the Citizen King' was hurried through those same gardens and into a passing cab , EN ROUTE for a life exile . 
Our balcony at Meurice's was a fine point of observation from which to watch a revolution . 
There was no keeping the men of our party in after that . 
They had been impressed into service and passed their night building barricades . 
I passed the greater part of forty eight hours on our balcony , watching the mob marching by , singing LA MARSEILLAISE , and camping at night in the streets . 
It was all I could do to tear myself away from the window long enough to eat and write in my journal . 
There was no Avenue de l'Opera then . 
or through a labyrinth of narrow , bad smelling little streets , where strangers easily lost their way . 
Next to the boulevards , the Palais Royal was the centre of the elegant and dissipated life in the capital . 
No one thought of buying jewelry anywhere else . 
It was from the windows of its shops that the fashions started on their way around the world . 
One feels this isolation in the literature of the time brilliant as the epoch was , the horizon of its writers was bounded by the boulevards and the Faubourg Saint Germain . 
Dumas says laughingly , in a letter to a friend I have never ventured into the unexplored country beyond the Bastille , but am convinced that it shelters wild animals and savages . 
The wit and brains of the period were concentrated into a small space . 
Money making had no more part in the programme of a writer then than an introduction into society . 
Catering to a foreign market and snobbishness were undreamed of degradations . 
Chapter Some American Husbands UNTIL the beginning of this century men played the BEAU ROLE in life's comedy . 
In those happy days the husband ruled supreme at his own fireside , receiving the homage of the family , who bent to his will and obeyed his orders . 
During the last century , however , the part of better half has become less and less attractive in America , one prerogative after another having been whisked away by enterprising wives . 
Times have indeed changed in America since the native chief sat in dignified repose bedizened with all the finery at hand , while the ladies of the family waited tremblingly upon him . 
To America must be given the credit of having produced the model husband , a new species , as it were , of the GENUS HOMO . 
In no role does a compatriot appear to such advantage as in that of Benedict . 
As a boy he is often too advanced for his years or his information in youth he is conspicuous neither for his culture nor his unselfishness . 
Any one who has studied marital ways in other lands will realize that in no country have the men effaced themselves so gracefully as with us . 
In this respect no foreign production can compare for a moment with the domestic article . 
In English , French , and German families the husband is still all powerful . 
The house is mounted , guests are asked , and the year planned out to suit his occupations and pleasure . 
Here papa is rarely consulted until such matters have been decided upon by the ladies , when the head of the house is called in to sign the checks . 
If , as occasionally happens , an income is allowed a bride by her parents , she expects to spend it on her toilets or pleasures . 
This condition of the matrimonial market exists in no other country even in England , where MARIAGES DE CONVENANCE are rare , settlements form an inevitable prelude to conjugal bliss . 
The fact that she contributes little or nothing to the common income in no way embarrasses an American wife her pretensions are usually in an inverse proportion to her personal means . 
Poor , innocent , confiding mortal ! The wife quickly became a belle of the fastest set in town . 
It may be laid down as a maxim in this connection that a man marries to obtain a home , and a girl to get away from one hence disappointment on both sides . 
The couple in question have in all probability not passed an evening alone since they were married , the lady rarely stopping in the round of her gayeties until she collapses from fatigue . 
Their home is typical of their life , which itself can be taken as a good example of the existence that most of our smart people lead . 
The ground floor and the first floor are given up to entertaining . 
The second is occupied by the spacious sitting , bath , and sleeping rooms of the lady . 
At first the idea of such an unequal division of the house shocks our sense of justice , until we reflect that the American husband is not expected to remain at home . 
That's not his place ! If he is not down town making money , fashion dictates that he must be at some club house playing a game . 
A man who should remain at home , and read or chat with the ladies of his family , would be considered a bore and unmanly . 
There seems to be no place in an American house for its head . 
In one family I know , paterfamilias goes by the name of the purse . 
The more one sees of American households the more appropriate that name appears . 
Everything is expected of the husband , and he is accorded no definite place in return . 
He leaves the house at . 
When a couple dine out , the husband is always LA BETE NOIRE of the hostess , no woman wanting to sit next to a married man , if she can help it . 
Imagine a German or Italian wife announcing to her spouse that she had decided to run over to England for a year with her children , that they might learn English . 
The mind recoils in horror from the idea of the catastrophe that would ensue . 
Glance around a ball room , a dinner party , or the opera , if you have any doubts as to the unselfishness of our married men . 
How many of them do you suppose are present for their own pleasure ? The owner of an opera box rarely retains a seat in his expensive quarters . 
You generally find him idling in the lobbies looking at his watch , or repairing to a neighboring concert hall to pass the weary hours . 
At a ball it is even worse . 
It is the rebellious husband who is admired and courted , however . 
A curious trait of human nature compels admiration for whatever is harmful , and forces us , in spite of our better judgment , to depreciate the useful and beneficent . 
Such a spirit has brought helpful , productive better halves to the humble place they now occupy in the eyes of our people . 
As long as men passed their time in fighting and carousing they were heroes as soon as they became patient bread winners all the romance evaporated from their atmosphere . 
The Jewish Hercules had his revenge in the end and made things disagreeable for his tormentors . 
So far , however , there are no signs of a revolt among the shorn lambs in this country . 
They patiently bend their necks to the collar the kindest , most loving and devoted helpmates that ever plodded under the matrimonial yoke . 
When in the East , one watches with admiration the part a donkey plays in the economy of those primitive lands . 
All the work is reserved for that industrious animal , and little play falls to his share . 
The camel is always bad tempered , and when overladen lies down , refusing to move until relieved of its burden . 
It is impossible to live long in the Orient or the south of France without becoming attached to those gentle , willing animals . 
The role which honest Bourico fills so well abroad is played on this side of the Atlantic by the American husband . 
I mean no disrespect to my married compatriots on the contrary , I admire them as I do all docile , unselfish beings . 
The artist thus chosen was Carolus Duran . 
Oddly enough , a majority of the youths who sought him out and made him their master were Americans . 
Those were cloudless , enchanted days we passed in the tumbled down old atelier an ardent springtime of life when the future beckons gayly and no doubts of success obscure the horizon . 
A portrait of Madame de Portalais , exhibited about this time , drew all art loving Paris around the new celebrity's canvas . 
, now known as LA FEMME AU GANT , for the Luxembourg Gallery . 
It is difficult to overestimate the impetus that a master's successes impart to the progress of his pupils . 
My first studious year in Paris had been passed in the shadow of an elderly painter , who was comfortably dozing on the laurels of thirty years before . 
The change from that sleepy environment to the vivid enthusiasm and dash of Carolus Duran's studio was like stepping out of a musty cloister into the warmth and movement of a market place . 
Here , be it said in passing , lies perhaps the secret of the dry rot that too often settles on our American art schools . 
We , for some unknown reason , do not take the work of native painters seriously , nor encourage them in proportion to their merit . 
In consequence they retain but a feeble hold upon their pupils . 
Brilliant talks , inlaid with much wit and incisive criticism , the memory of which must linger in the minds of all who were fortunate enough to hear them . 
Nor was it to the studio alone that our master's interest followed us . 
The year brought Carolus Duran the MEDAILLE D'HONNEUR , a crowning recompense that set the atelier mad with delight . 
banquet to commemorate the event , over which our master presided , with much modesty , considering the amount of incense we burned before him , and the speeches we made . 
One of our number even burst into some very bad French verses , asserting that the painters of the world in general fell back before him . 
EPOUVANTES CRAIGNANT EGALEMENT SA BROSSE ET SON EPEE . 
This allusion to his proficiency in fencing was considered particularly neat , and became the favorite song of the studio , to be howled in and out of season . 
Curiously enough , there is always something in Carolus Duran's attitude when at work which recalls the swordsman . 
With an enormous palette in one hand and a brush in the other , he has a way of planting himself in front of his sitter that is amusingly suggestive of a duel . 
with a precision of hand acquired only by long years of fencing . 
An order to paint the king and queen of Portugal was the next step on the road to fame , another rung on the pleasant ladder of success . 
The students cheer themselves hoarse , and the public climbs on everything that comes to hand to see him pass . 
Those who know the French painter's more important works and his many splendid studies from the nude , feel it a pity that such masterpieces as the equestrian portrait of Mlle . 
Croisette , of the Comedie Francaise , the REVEIL , the superb full length of Mme . 
A taste for the theatre is natural enough . 
It is also easy to understand why people who are fond of sport and animals enjoy races and dog shows . 
But the continued vogue of grand opera , and more especially of Wagner's long drawn out compositions , among our restless , unmusical compatriots , remains unexplained . 
The sheeplike docility of our public is apparent in numberless ways in none , however , more strikingly than in their choice of amusements . 
, who sit in perpetual adoration before the elderly tenor . 
First , then , and most important , come the stockholders , for without them the Metropolitan would close . 
Second are those who attend because it has become the correct thing to be seen at the opera . 
This list fills a large part of the closely packed parquet and first balcony . 
Third , and last , come the lovers of music , who mostly inhabit greater altitudes . 
The motive of the typical box owner is simple . 
and four men , without counting the husband , who appears at dinner , but rarely goes further . 
The pleasant meal and the subsequent smoke are prolonged until or . 
, when the men are finally dragged murmuring from their cigars . 
If she has been fortunate and timed her arrival to correspond with an ENTR'ACTE , my lady is radiant . 
The men she has brought with her quickly cede their places to callers , and wander yawning in the lobby or invade the neighboring boxes and add their voices to the general murmur . 
that we are not a music loving people . 
Audible conversation during a performance would not be allowed for a moment by a Continental audience . 
The little visiting that takes place in boxes abroad is done during the ENTR'ACTES , when people retire to the salons back of their LOGES to eat ices and chat . 
Here those little parlors are turned into cloak rooms , and small talk goes on in many boxes during the entire performance . 
If a favorite tenor is singing , and no one happens to be whispering nonsense over her shoulder , my lady may listen in a distrait way . 
It is not safe , however , to count on prolonged attention or ask her questions about the performance . 
She is apt to be a bit hazy as to who is singing , and with the exception of FAUST and CARMEN , has rudimentary ideas about plots . 
Singers come and go , weep , swoon , or are killed , without interfering with her equanimity . 
looked his blank amazement until it was explained to him that one of those operas was a continuation of the other . 
After a pause he remarked , They are not by the same composer , anyway ! Because the first's by Rossini , and the MARIAGE is by Bon Marche . 
I've been at his shop in Paris . 
The presence of the second category the would be fashionable people is not so easily accounted for . 
Although an imposing and sufficiently attentive throng , it would be difficult to find a less discriminating public than that which gathers nightly in the Metropolitan parterre . 
One wonders how many of those people care for music and how many attend because it is expensive and swell . 
the singers may flat or be out of voice the performance may go all at sixes and sevens there is never a murmur of dissent . 
Faults that would set an entire audience at Naples or Milan hissing are accepted herewith ignorant approval . 
The unfortunate part of it is that this weakness of ours has become known . 
The singers feel they can give an American audience any slipshod performance . 
Did you notice the baritone to night ? He wasn't on the key once during our duo . 
We and the English are the only race who will attend performances in a foreign language which we don't understand . 
When two celebrities combine in a final duo , facing the public and not each other , they give the impression of victims whom an unseen inquisitor is torturing . 
Each turn of his screw draws out a wilder cry . 
does all it can to prevent their shrieks from reaching the public . 
The lovers in turn redouble their efforts they are purple in the face and glistening with perspiration . 
That they are sincere , is evident . 
The rapt expressions of their faces , and their patience , bear testimony to this fact . 
For a long time I asked myself , Where have I seen that intense , absorbed attitude before ? Suddenly one evening another scene rose in my memory . 
Have you ever visited Tangiers ? In the market place of that city you will find the inhabitants crouched by hundreds around their native musicians . 
When we were there , one old duffer the Wagner , doubtless , of the place was having an immense success . 
The answers have been varied and interesting . 
One good lady who rarely misses a German opera confessed that sweet sounds acted upon her like opium . 
Neither scenery nor acting nor plot were of any importance . 
From the first notes of the overture to the end , she floated in an ecstatic dream , oblivious of time and place . 
When it was over she came back to herself faint with fatigue . 
Another professed lover of Wagner said that his greatest pleasure was in following the different motives as they recurred in the music . 
My faith in that gentleman was shaken , however , when I found the other evening that he had mistaken Van Dyck for Jean de Reszke through an entire performance . 
When the reading was over the opinion of her friends was unanimous . 
Nothing could be simpler ! The lines were lucidity itself ! Such close reasoning etc . 
But dismay fell upon them when the naughty lady announced , with a peal of laughter , that she had been reading alternate lines from opposite pages . 
His estimate was that perhaps fifty per cent might find out the fraud . 
He put the number of people who could give an intelligent account of those plots at about thirty per hundred . 
The popularity of music , he added , is largely due to the fact that it saves people the trouble of thinking . 
Pleasant sounds soothe the nerves , and , if prolonged long enough in a darkened room will , like the Eastern tom toms , lull the senses into a mild form of trance . 
, applauding what they didn't understand , and listening to vague German mythology set to sounds that appear to us outsiders like music sunk into a verbose dotage . 
I am convinced the greater number would have preferred a jolly performance of MME . 
ANGOT or the CLOCHES DE CORNEVILLE , cut in two by a good ballet . 
It is , however , so easy to be mistaken on subjects of this kind that generalizing is dangerous . 
Many great authorities have liked tuneless music . 
One of the most telling arguments in its favor was recently advanced by a foreigner . 
The Chinese ambassador told us last winter in a club at Washington that Wagner's was the only European music that he appreciated and enjoyed . 
You see , he added , music is a much older art with us than in Europe , and has naturally reached a far greater perfection . 
As a Frenchman rarely asks an acquaintance , or even a friend , to his apartment , the CAFE has become the common ground where all meet , for business or pleasure . 
For the student , newly arrived from the provinces , to whose modest purse the theatres and other places of amusement are practically closed , the CAFE is a supreme resource . 
His mind is moulded , his ideas and opinions formed , more by what he hears and sees there than by any other influence . 
A restaurant is of little importance . 
In Paris , to know a man at all is to know where you can find him at the hour of the APERITIF what Baudelaire called L'HEURE SAINTE DE L'ABSINTHE . 
When young men form a society among themselves , a CAFE is chosen as their meeting place . 
Business men transact their affairs as much over their coffee as in their offices . 
The reading man finds at his CAFE the daily and weekly papers a writer is sure of the undisturbed possession of pen , ink , and paper . 
With it is acquired the right to use the establishment for an indefinite number of hours , the client being warmed , lighted , and served . 
The last editorial , the newest picture , or the fall of a ministry is discussed with a vehemence and an interest unknown to Anglo Saxon natures . 
Suddenly , in the excitement of the discussion , some one will rise in his place and begin speaking . 
She is charmed her establishment will shine with a reflected light , and new patrons be drawn there , if the debates are brilliant . 
Opposite the Palace of the Luxembourg , in the heart of the old Latin Quarter , stands a quaint building , half hotel , half CAFE , where many years ago Joseph II . 
resided while visiting his sister , Marie Antoinette . 
It is known now as Foyot's this name must awaken many happy memories in the hearts of American students , for it was long their favorite meeting place . 
In the early seventies a club , formed among the literary and poetic youth of Paris , selected Foyot's as their home during the winter months . 
Their summer vacations were spent in visiting the university towns of France , reciting verses , or acting in original plays at Nancy , Bordeaux , Lyons , or Caen . 
Under his kindly and discriminating rule many a successful literary career has started . 
Salis's gifted nature combined a delicate taste and critical acumen with a rare business ability . 
The old word CABARET , corresponding closely to our English inn , was chosen , and the establishment decorated in imitation of a Louis XIII . 
Oaken beams supported the low studded ceilings The plaster walls disappeared behind tapestries , armor , old FAIENCE . 
, who had so long led poetry in chains . 
The success of the Black Cat in her new quarters was immense , all Paris crowding through her modest doors . 
Salis had founded Montmartre ! the rugged old hill giving birth to a generation of writers and poets , and nourishing this new school at her granite breasts . 
It would be difficult to imagine a form of entertainment more tempting than was offered in this picturesque inn . 
A piano , with many chairs and tables , completed the unpretending installation . 
They called each other and the better known among the guests by their names , and joked mutual weaknesses , eliminating from these gatherings every shade of a perfunctory performance . 
In this world of routine and conventions an innovation as brilliantly successful as this could hardly be inaugurated without raising a whirlwind of jealousy and opposition . 
The struggle was long and arduous . 
At the end of the first year Salis found himself with over eight hundred summonses and lawsuits on his hands . 
The influence of the head of the state once brought to bear on the affair , Salis had the joy of seeing opposition crushed and the storm blow itself out . 
Most important among these were the z'Arts , Boulevard de Clichy , the Tambourin , and La Butte . 
It was here that the poets first had the idea of producing a piece in which rival CABARETS were reviewed and laughingly criticised . 
The great critics did not disdain to attend these informal gatherings , nor to write columns of serious criticism on the subject in their papers . 
At the hour when all Paris takes its APERITIF the z'Arts became the meeting place of the painters , poets , and writers of the day . 
Montmartre gradually replaced the old Latin Quarter it is there to day that one must seek for the gayety and humor , the pathos and the makeshifts of Bohemia . 
Another charming form of entertainment inaugurated by this group of men is that of shadow pictures , conceived originally by Caran d'Ache , and carried by him to a marvellous perfection . 
A medium sized frame filled with ground glass is suspended at one end of a room and surrounded by sombre draperies . 
These figures move , advancing and retreating , grouping or separating themselves to the cadence of the poet's verses , for which they form the most original and striking illustrations . 
Entire poems are given accompanied by these shadow pictures . 
They stormed heights , cheered on by his presence , or formed hollow squares to repulse the enemy . 
During their evolutions , the clear voice of the poet rang out from the darkness with thrilling effect . 
The nicest art is necessary to cut these little figures to the required perfection . 
The great Sarah was represented in poses of infinite humor , surrounded by her menagerie or receiving the homage of the universe . 
Political leaders , foreign sovereigns , social and operatic stars , were made to pass before a laughing public . 
Paris went mad with delight at this new art , and for months it was impossible to find a seat vacant in the hall . 
At the Boite a Musique , the idea was further developed . 
His songs are alternately tender , gay , and bitingly sarcastic . 
Some of his better known ballads were written for and marvellously interpreted by Yvette Guilbert . 
The difficult critics , Sarcey and Jules Lemaitre , have sounded his praise again and again . 
To give an account of the Mirliton is to tell the story of Bruant , the most popular ballad writer in France to day . 
This original and eccentric poet is as well known to a Parisian as the boulevards or the Arc de Triomphe . 
His costume of shabby black velvet , Brittany waistcoat , red shirt , top boots , and enormous hat is a familiar feature in the caricatures and prints of the day . 
His little CABARET remains closed during the day , opening its doors toward evening . 
The personality of the ballad writer pervades the atmosphere . 
His volumes DANS LA RUE and SUR LA ROUTE have had an enormous popularity , their contents being known and sung all over France . 
In Bruant was received as a member of the society of GENS DE LETTRES . 
I value highly the author of DANS LA RUE . 
He has sought his inspiration in the gutter , it is true , but he has seen there a reflection of the stars . 
Of a summer evening no more congenial spot can be found in all Paris . 
The quaint chambers have been covered with mural paintings or charcoal caricatures of the poets themselves , or of familiar faces among the clients and patrons of the place . 
Fame and honors came too late . 
The famous Treteau de Tabarin , which today holds undisputed precedence over all the CABARETS of Paris , was among the last to appear . 
It was founded by the brilliant Fursy and a group of his friends . 
Here no pains have been spared to form a setting worthy of the poets and their public . 
Many years ago , in the days of the good king Louis XIII . 
, a strolling poet actor , Tabarin , erected his little canvas covered stage before the statue of Henry IV . 
, on the Pont Neuf , and drew the court and the town by his fun and pathos . 
The founders of the latest and most complete of Parisian CABARETS have reconstructed , as far as possible , this historic scene . 
's warlike father in the foreground . 
In front of this painting stands a staging of rough planks , reproducing the little theatre of Tabarin . 
Here , every evening , the authors and poets play in their own pieces , recite their verses , and tell their stories . 
It would be difficult to overrate the influence such an atmosphere , breathed in youth , must have on the taste and character . 
It is both a satisfaction and a hope for the future to know that these influences are being felt all over the capital and throughout the length and breadth of France . 
There are at this moment in Paris alone three or four hundred poets , ballad writers , and RACONTEURS who recite their works in public . 
One's taste and sense of fitness are never shocked . 
From the days of Homer poetry has been the instructor of nations . 
The power of poetry is the same now as three thousand years ago . 
Chapter Etiquette At Home and Abroad READING that a sentinel had been punished the other day at St . 
A singular impression has grown up that formal politeness and the saying of gracious and complimentary things betray the toady and the hypocrite , both if whom are abhorrent to Americans . 
Politeness is , after all , but the dictate of a kind heart , and supplies the oil necessary to make the social machinery run smoothly . 
Americans are always much shocked to learn that we are not popular on the Continent . 
One of the reasons for this partiality is not hard to discover . 
In our ignorance we break many of these social laws and give offence where none was intended . 
A single illustration will explain my meaning . 
A young American girl once went to the mistress of a PENSION where she was staying and complained that the CONCIERGE of the house had been impertinent . 
When the proprietress asked the CONCIERGE what this meant , the latter burst out with her wrongs . 
The duchess who lives AU QUATRIEME never passes without a kind word or an inquiry after the children or my health . 
Now this American girl had erred through ignorance of the fact that in France servants are treated as humble friends . 
The fact that a woman is obliged to keep a shop in no way relieves him of this obligation . 
that our servants are surprised and inclined to resent politeness , as in the case of an English butler who recently came to his master and said he should be obliged to leave . 
Some years ago I happened to be standing in the vestibule of the Hotel Bristol as the Princess of Wales and her daughters were leaving . 
Nothing could have been more gracious and freer from condescension than their manner , and it undoubtedly produced the best impression . 
My neighbor at dinner the other evening confided to me that she was worn out being fitted . 
I had such an unpleasant experience this morning , she added . 
The JUPIERE could not get one of my skirts to hang properly . 
The last time I was in the East a friend took me into the bazaars to see a carpet he was anxious to buy . 
might be carried on at leisure . 
When this was interpreted to the bearded tradesman , he smiled and came down a few dollars in his price , and ordered more coffee . 
By this time we were outside his shop , and left without the carpet simply because my friend could not conform to the customs of the country he was visiting . 
It is not only in intercourse with inferiors that tact is required . 
The treatment of children and young people in a family calls for delicate handling . 
Ensconced behind the respect which the young are supposed to pay them , they give free vent to inclination , and carp , cavil , and correct . 
The victims may have reached maturity or even middle age , but remain always children to these social policemen , to be reproved and instructed in and out of season . 
Oddly enough , amateur schoolmarms who fall into this unpleasant habit are generally oversensitive , and resent as a personal affront any restlessness under criticism on the part of their victims . 
against the powerful and the strong . 
Alas , too many of us take liberties with those whom we do not fear , and excuse our little acts of cowardice with arguments as fallacious as those of drunken old Eccles . 
Chapter What is Art ? IN former years , we inquiring youngsters in foreign studios were much bewildered by the repetition of a certain phrase . 
pretty sure to conclude with , It's all very well in its way , but it's not Art . 
Not only foolish youths but the masters themselves constantly advanced this opinion to crush a rival or belittle a friend . 
To ardent minds seeking for the light and catching at every thread that might serve as a guide out of perplexity , this vague assertion was confusing . 
According to one master , the eighteenth century school did not exist . 
As most of us were living far from home and friends for the purpose of acquiring the rudiments of art , this continual sweeping away of our foundations was discouraging . 
In our own day the idol of one moment becomes the jest of the next . 
to be discovered , discussed , lauded , acclaimed , then gradually forgotten and decried . 
During the years when we were studying in Paris , that young painter's works were pronounced by the critics and their following to be the last development of Art . 
Museums and amateurs vied with each other in acquiring his canvases . 
If any one doubts the fleeting nature of a reputation , let him go to a sale of modern pictures and note the prices brought by the favorites of twenty years ago . 
The paintings of that arch priest , Meissonier , no longer command the sums that eager collectors paid for them a score of years back . 
There have been fashions in them as in other forms of art . 
began to write up the English school , Romneys , Lawrences , and Gainsboroughs had little market value . 
The result is that most of us are as far away from the solution of that vexed question What is Art ? at forty as we were when boys . 
The majority have arranged a compromise with their consciences . 
that such and such works are Art , and such others , while pleasing and popular , lack the requisite qualities . 
Art , says Tolstoi , is simply a condition of life . 
It is any form of expression that a human being employs to communicate an emotion he has experienced to a fellow mortal . 
An author who , in telling his hopes and sorrows , amuses or saddens a reader , has in just so much produced a work of art . 
The wordy superstructure of aphorisms and paradox falls to the ground , disclosing fair Truth , so long a captive within the temple erected in her honor . 
Only those with a sense of the beautiful' should be allowed to enter into her sacred presence . 
Tolstoi's sweeping truth is too far reaching to please these gentry . 
Like the priests of past religions , they would have preferred to keep such knowledge as they had to themselves and expound it , little at a time , to the ignorant . 
The great Russian has kicked away their altar and routed the false gods , whose acolytes will never forgive him . 
Voltaire once avoided giving a definition of the beautiful by saying , Ask a toad what his ideas of beauty are . 
A truth is proved by its evidence to all . 
Discussion outside of that is simply beating the air . 
As a result we drift each hour further from the truth . 
The simple definition given to us by the Russian writer comes like a breath of wholesome air to those suffocating in an atmosphere of perfumes and artificial heat . 
Art is our common inheritance , not the property of a favored few . 
Tolstoi has given us back our birthright , so long withheld , and crowned with his aged hands the true artist . 
Chapter The Genealogical Craze THERE undoubtedly is something in the American temperament that prevents our doing anything in moderation . 
If we take up an idea , it is immediately run to exaggeration and then abandoned , that the nation may fly at a tangent after some new fad . 
In other lands a reasonable pride of birth has always been one of the bonds holding communities together , and is estimated at its just value . 
We , after having practically ignored the subject for half a century , suddenly rush to the other extreme , and develop an entire forest of genealogical trees at a growth . 
There may have been a reason for the formation of this society . 
I say may because it does not seem quite clear what its aim was . 
The originators doubtless imagined they were founding an exclusive circle , but the numbers who clamored for admittance quickly dispelled this illusion . 
So a small group of the elect withdrew in disgust and banded together under the cognomen of Colonial Dames . 
Some victims of this bad treatment , thirsting for revenge , struck on the happy thought of inaugurating an Aztec society . 
As that title conveyed absolutely no idea to any one , its members were forced to explain that only descendants of officers who fought in the Mexican War were eligible . 
What the elect did when they got into the circle was not specified . 
The Social Order of Foreign Wars was the next creation , its authors evidently considering the Mexican campaign as a domestic article , a sort of family squabble . 
Then the Children of attracted attention , both groups having immediate success . 
Jealous probably of seeing women enjoying all the fun , their husbands and brothers next banded together as Sons of the Revolution . 
It was not , however , in the American temperament to rest content with modest beginnings , the national motto being , The best is good enough for me . 
Descent from any old king was , however , not sufficient for the high toned people of our republic . 
When you come to think of it , such a circle might be mixed . 
So the founders of the Circle of Holland Dames of the New Netherlands drew the line at descent from a sovereign of the Low Countries . 
It does not seem as if this could be a large society , although those old Dutch pashas had an unconscionable number of children . 
The promoters of this enterprise seem nevertheless to have been fairly successful , for they gave a fete recently and crowned a queen . 
To be acclaimed their sovereign by a group of people all of royal birth is indeed an honor . 
Rumors of this ceremony have come to us outsiders . 
It is said that they employed only lineal descendants of Vatel to prepare their banquet , and I am assured that an offspring of Gambrinus acted as butler . 
But it is wrong to joke on this subject . 
The state of affairs is becoming too serious . 
of the forty noblemen who forced King John to sign the Magna Charta are what our Washington Mrs. Malaprop would call legible , the action attests a diseased condition of the community . 
can at the present day PROVE male descent further back than the eleventh century , must appreciate the absurdity of our compatriots' pretensions . 
For a group of infants , this must be acknowledged to have been a luminous inspiration . 
We had no valid reason for forming that society , not being particularly fond of each other . 
Living in several cities , we rarely met after leaving school and had little to say to each other when we did . 
Pride , however , sustained a fall when it was pointed out that the initials formed the ominous word Ass . 
One correspondent assured me only this month that he had papers in his possession showing beyond a doubt that I might claim a certain King McDougal of Scotland for an ancestor . 
As I have no desire to corner the market in kings , these letters have remained unanswered . 
It has been suggested that if some one wanted to organize a truly restricted circle , The Grandchildren of our Tripoli War would be an excellent title . 
So few Americans took part in that conflict and still fewer know anything about it that the satisfaction of joining the society would be immense to exclusively minded people . 
There is only one explanation that seems in any way to account for this vast tomfoolery . 
A little sentence , printed at the bottom of a prospectus recently sent to me , lets the ambitious cat out of the genealogical bag . 
It states that social position is assured to people joining our order . 
This last decade of the century has brought to light many strange fads and senseless manias . 
This descent craze , however , surpasses them all in inanity . 
The keepers of insane asylums will tell you that one of the hopeless forms of madness is LA FOLIE DES GRANDEURS . 
A breath of this delirium seems to be blowing over our country . 
Crowns and sceptres haunt the dreams of simple republican men and women , troubling their slumbers and leading them a will o' the wisp dance back across the centuries . 
During these informal hours , he talked to them of literature and art and showed them his prints and paintings . 
When the youths' interest was aroused he lent them books , that they might read about the statues and buildings that had attracted their attention . 
At first it appeared a hopeless task to arouse any interest among these peasants in subjects not bearing on their abject lives . 
To talk with boys of the ideal , when their poor bodies were in need of food and raiment , seemed superfluous but in time the charm worked , as it always will . 
The beautiful appealed to their simple natures , elevating and refining them , and opening before their eager eyes perspectives of undreamed of interest . 
The self imposed task became a delight as his pupils' minds responded to his efforts . 
Although death soon ended his useful life , the seed planted grew and bore fruit in many humble homes . 
We are far too quick in assuming that love of the beautiful is confined to the highly educated that the poor have no desire to surround themselves with graceful forms and harmonious colors . 
We wonder at and deplore their crude standards , bewailing the general lack of taste and the gradual reducing of everything to a commonplace money basis . 
We smile at the efforts toward adornment attempted by the poor , taking it too readily for granted that on this point they are beyond redemption . 
The portly charlady who rules despotically in my chambers is an example . 
The little education their eyes receive is obtained during visits to these emporiums . 
If this proves so , and it seems probable , it only proves how the humble long for something more graceful than their meagre homes afford . 
It is hard to make people understand the enthusiasm these decorations have excited in both teachers and pupils . 
As the children are graduated from room to room , a great variety of high class subjects can be brought to their notice by varying the decorations . 
It is by the eye principally that taste is educated . 
We speak with admiration of the eighth sense common among Parisians , and envy them their magic power of combining simple materials into an artistic whole . 
After years of this subtle training the eye instinctively revolts from the vulgar and the crude . 
There is little in the poorer quarters of our city to rejoice or refine the senses squalor and all pervading ugliness are not least among the curses that poverty entails . 
If you have a subject of interest in your mind , it often happens that every book you open , every person you speak with , refers to that topic . 
I never remember having seen an explanation offered of this phenomenon . 
, which Sarah Bernhardt had just had the courage to produce before the Paris public . 
Either people have it or they haven't , like a long nose or a short one , and it is useless to waste good money in trying to improve either . 
It would be much more to the point to spend your money in giving the poor children a good roast beef dinner at Christmas than in placing the bust of Clytie before them . 
That argument has crushed more attempts to elevate the poor than any other ever advanced . 
If it were listened to , there would never be any progress made , because there are always thousands of people who are hungry . 
Nothing can be more encouraging to those who occasionally despair of human nature than the good results already obtained by this small attempt in the schools . 
We fall into the error of imagining that because the Apollo Belvedere and the Square of St . 
Mark's have become stale to us by reproduction they are necessarily so to others . 
The great and the wealthy of the world form no idea of the longing the poor feel for a little variety in their lives . 
They do not know what they want . 
They have no standards to guide them , but the desire is there . 
People like the French nobles , engaged in sulking and attempting to overthrow or boycott each succeeding regime , must naturally lose their influence . 
Within the last few years there have , however , been signs of a change . 
Young members of historic houses show an amusing inclination to escape from their austere surroundings and resume the place their grandparents abdicated . 
If it is impossible to rule as formerly , they at any rate intend to get some fun out of existence . 
This joyous movement to the front is being made by the young matrons enlisted under the Seven little duchesses' banner . 
No one of these light hearted ladies takes any particular precedence over the others . 
All are young , and some are wonderfully nice to look at . 
The Duchesse d'Uzes is , perhaps , the handsomest , good looks being an inheritance from her mother , the beautiful and wayward Duchesse de Chaulme . 
There is a vivid grace about the daughter , an intense vitality that suggests some beautiful being of the forest . 
As she moves and speaks one almost expects to hear the quick breath coming and going through her quivering nostrils , and see foam on her full lips . 
Her mother's tragic death has thrown a glamor of romance around the daughter's life that heightens the witchery of her beauty . 
has not been propitious to that gentle lady . 
It might almost be asserted that our fair compatriot wears the oldest coronet in France . 
The young Duchesse de Brissac runs her two comrades close as regards looks . 
Brissac is the son of Mme . 
de Tredern , whom Newporters will remember two years ago , when she enjoyed some weeks of our summer season . 
Their chateau was built by the Brissac of Henri IV . 
In the autumn these spacious castles are filled with joyous bands and their ample stables with horses . 
The Duc de Luynes and his wife , who was Mlle . 
, live at Dampierre , another interesting pile filled with rare pictures , bric a brac , and statuary , first among which is Jean Goujon's life sized statue of Louis XIII . 
, presented by that monarch to his favorite , the founder of the house . 
This gem of the Renaissance stands in an octagonal chamber hung in dark velvet , unique among statues . 
It has been shown but once in public , at the Loan Exhibition in , when the patriotic nobility lent their treasures to collect a fund for the Alsace Lorraine exiles . 
The Duchesse de Noailles , NEE Mlle . 
de Luynes , is another of this coterie and one of the few French noblewomen who has travelled . 
Many Americans will remember the visit she made here with her mother some years ago , and the effect her girlish grace produced at that time . 
The de Noailles' chateau of Maintenon is an inheritance from Louis XIV . 
's prudish favorite , who founded and enriched the de Noailles family . 
The Duc and Duchesse d'Uzes live near by at Bonnelle with the old Duc de Doudeauville , her grandfather , who is also the grandfather of Mme . 
de Noailles , these two ladies being descended each from a wife of the old duke , the former from the Princesse de Polignac and the latter from the Princesse de Ligne . 
No coterie in England or in this country corresponds at all to this French community . 
Much as they love to amuse themselves , the idea of meeting any but their own set has never passed through their well dressed heads . 
They differ from their parents in that they have broken away from many antiquated habits . 
Their houses are no longer lay hermitages , and their opera boxes are regularly filled , but no foreigner is ever received , no ambitious parvenu accepted among them . 
Ostracism here means not a ten years' exile , but lifelong banishment . 
Every Frenchwoman of any pretensions to fashion backs her beauty and grace with some art in which she is sure to be proficient . 
The dowager Duchesse d'Uzes is a sculptor of mark , and when during the autumn Mme . 
Few of these people but are HABITUES of the Hotel Drouot and conversant with the value and authenticity of the works of art daily sold there . 
Such elements combine to form an atmosphere that does not exist in any other country , and lends an interest to society in France which it is far from possessing elsewhere . 
There is but one way that an outsider can enter this Gallic paradise . 
By marrying into it ! Two of the seven ladies in question lack the quarterings of the rest . 
Miss Mitchell was only a charming American girl , and the mother of the Princesse Radziwill was Mlle . 
However , as in most religions there are ceremonies that purify , so in this case the sacrament of marriage is supposed to have reconstructed these wives and made them genealogically whole . 
There is something incongruous to most people in the idea of a young girl hardly out of the schoolroom bearing a ponderous title . 
Let no simple minded American imagine , however , that these up to date women are waiting to welcome him and his family to their intimacy . 
The world outside of France does not exist for a properly brought up French aristocrat . 
Puteaux had its day , then the Polo Club in the Bois became their rendezvous . 
Who the elect are must become each year more difficult to discern . 
An assertion , by the bye , which is open to doubt . 
What does come to every one is an hour fraught with warning , which , if unheeded , leads on to folly . 
This fateful date coincides for most of us with the discovery that we are turning gray , or that the crow's feet or our temples are becoming visible realities . 
Up to this century , the male had always been the ornamental member of a family . 
Caesar , we read , coveted a laurel crown principally because it would help to conceal his baldness . 
The wigs of the Grand Monarque are historical . 
To day the situation is reversed . 
The battle , given up by the men who now accept their fate with equanimity is being waged by their better halves with a vigor heretofore unknown . 
The men or women who do not look their age are rare . 
A curious fatality that has the air of a nemesis pursues those who succeed in giving this false appearance . 
add a decade or so to the real age . 
Only last month I was sitting at dinner opposite a famous French beauty , who at fifty succeeds in looking barely thirty . 
Unfortunately the stupid means most of our matrons adopt to accomplish this end produce exactly the opposite result . 
It saddens a lover of the beautiful to see matrons going so far astray in their desire to please as to pose for young women when they no longer can look the part . 
It seems to be perpetrated unconsciously by the greater number , with no particular object in view , simply because other people do it . 
There is something absolutely uncanny in the illusion . 
The more successful it is , the more weird the effect . 
No one wants to see Polonius in the finery of Mercutio . 
The great ladies who had left their youth behind never then committed the blunder , so common among our middle aged ladies , of aping the maidens of the day . 
They were far too clever for that , and appreciated the advantages to be gained from sombre stuffs and flattering laces . 
Let those who doubt study Nattier's exquisite portrait of Maria Leczinska . 
Nothing in the pose or toilet suggests a desire on the painter's part to rejuvenate his sitter . 
If anything , the queen's age is emphasized as something honorable . 
The gray hair is simply arranged and partly veiled with black lace , which sets off her delicate , faded face to perfection , but without flattery or fraud . 
We find the same view taken of age by the masters of the Renaissance , who appreciated its charm and loved to reproduce its grace . 
Queen Elizabeth stands out in history as a woman who struggled ungracefully against growing old . 
Knowing how easily our excitable race runs to exaggeration , one trembles to think what surprises the future may hold , or what will be the next decree of Dame Fashion . 
If the water of the newfound spring , besides having an unpleasant smell , is also hot , then Providence has indeed blessed the township . 
The first step is to have the fluid analyzed by a celebrity , and its medicinal qualities duly set forth in a certificate . 
The second is to get official recognition from the government and the authorization to erect a bath house . 
A national dress , however , has a fine effect in the advertisement , and gives a local color to the scene . 
After preparing their trap , the wily inhabitants of a new watering place have only to sit down and await events . 
In the wake of the English come invalids of other nationalities . 
add games of chance to the other temptations of the place . 
, wearing waterproof togas and common sense cothurni , with double cork soles . 
The wife of another Caesar fled hither in . 
In Europe the rural Machiavellis have had time to learn that smiling faces and picturesque surroundings are half the battle . 
Another point which is perfectly understood abroad is that a cure must be largely mental that in consequence boredom retards recovery . 
So during every hour of the day and evening a different amusement is provided for those who feel inclined to be amused . 
At Aix , for instance , Colonne's orchestra plays under the trees at the Villa des Fleurs while you are sipping your after luncheon coffee . 
At three o'clock Guignol performs for the youngsters . 
At five o'clock there is another concert in the Casino . 
At eight o'clock an operetta is given at the villa , and a comedy in the Casino , both ending discreetly at eleven o'clock . 
Once a week , as a variety , the park is illuminated and fireworks help to pass the evening . 
is standing ready in the little square . 
On the neighboring lake you have but to choose between a dozen kinds of boats . 
The hire of all these modes of conveyance being fixed by the municipality , and plainly printed in boat or carriage , extortions or discussions are impossible . 
If you prefer a ramble among the hills , the wily native is lying in wait for you there also . 
When you arrive breathless at your journey's end , a shady arbor offers shelter where you may cool off and enjoy the view . 
It is not by accident that a dish of freshly gathered strawberries and a bowl of milk happen to be standing near by . 
When bicycling around the lake you begin to feel how nice a half hour's rest would be . 
Presto ! a terrace overhanging the water appears , and a farmer's wife who proposes brewing you a cup of tea , supplementing it with butter and bread of her own making . 
Weak human nature cannot withstand such blandishments . 
You find yourself becoming fond of the people and their smiling ways , returning again and again to shores where you are made so welcome . 
The fact that business is at the bottom of all this in no way interferes with one's enjoyment . 
The trick can doubtless be overdone at moments one feels the little game is worked a bit too openly . 
I was apparently the only person , however , who felt this . 
There are also moments when the vivid picturesqueness of this place comes near to palling on one . 
Its beauty is so suspiciously like a set scene that it gives the impression of having been arranged by some clever decorator with an eye to effect only . 
A problem which our intelligent people have not yet set themselves to solve , is being worked out abroad . 
It is a simple lesson , and one that I would gladly see our American watering places learn and apply . 
Girls abroad are kept away from the world because their social life only commences after marriage . 
have taken the bloom off her entrance into the world . 
She and her friends have already talked over the men of their circle , and decided , with a sigh , that there were matches going about . 
Her migrations from town to seashore , or from one country house to another , will be but changes of scene the actors will remain always the same . 
Yet , limited as such a girl's choice is , she will sooner remain single than accept a husband out of her set . 
Such large proportions do these details assume in her mind that each year the husband himself becomes of less importance , and what he can provide the essential point . 
If an outsider is sufficiently rich , my lady may consent to unite her destinies to his , hoping to get him absorbed into her own world . 
It is pathetic , considering the restricted number of eligible men going about , to see the trouble and expense that parents take to keep their daughters EN EVIDENCE . 
In comparison with such an existence the life of the average summer girl is one long frolic , as varied as that of her aristocratic sister is monotonous . 
Each spring she has the excitement of selecting a new battle ground for her manoeuvres , for in the circle in which she moves , parents leave such details to their children . 
A large hotel is her dream of luxury , and a couple of simultaneous flirtations her ideal of bliss . 
In the city she hails from , everybody she knows lives in about the same style . 
She has that tranquil sense of being the social equal of the people she meets , the absence of which makes the snob's life a burden . 
Life is full of delicious possibilities for her . 
profoundly at heart , their hope being to restore some of its pristine beauty to the ruin , and give from time to time performances of the Greek masterpieces on its disused stage . 
At Lyons , the CORTEGE was to leave the Paris train and take boats down the Rhone , to their destination . 
Their programme was so tempting that the offer of places in one of the craft was enough to lure us away from our prearranged route . 
By eight o'clock the following morning , we were on foot , as was apparently the entire city . 
A cannon fired from Fort Lamothe gave the signal of our start . 
The river , covered with a thousand gayly decorated craft , glinted and glittered in the morning light . 
Everywhere along our route the houses were gayly decorated and arches of flowers had been erected . 
As we pass under the bridge at Montelimar , an avalanche of flowers descends on us from above . 
The rapid current of the river soon brings our flotilla opposite Vivier , whose Gothic cathedral bathes its feet in the Rhone . 
Saint Esprit and its antique bridge appear next on the horizon . 
Here the mayor and the municipal council were to have received us and delivered an address , but were not on hand . 
We could see the tardy CORTEGE hastening towards the bridge as we shot away down stream . 
On nearing Orange , the banks and quays of the river are alive with people . 
The high road , parallel with the stream , is alive with a many colored throng . 
Chateaurenard ! our water journey is ended . 
Through the leafy avenues that lead to Orange , we see the arch of Marius and the gigantic proscenium of the theatre , rising above the roofs of the little city . 
revived with us , and our stage put to its legitimate use , cultivating and elevating the taste of the people . 
One would so gladly see a little of the money that is generously given for music used to revive in America a love for the classic drama . 
would not be possible here . 
Why ? But to return to my narrative . 
As day softened into twilight , and twilight deepened into a luminous Southern night the effect was incomparable . 
The belfries and roofs of mediaeval Orange rose in the clear air , overtopping the half ruined theatre in many places . 
To the right , wild grasses and herbs alternated with thick shrubbery , among which Orestes hid later , during the lamentations of his sister . 
To the left a gigantic fig tree , growing again the dark wall , threw its branches far out over the stage . 
Since midday the weather had been threatening . 
At seven o'clock there was almost a shower a moment of terrible anxiety . 
An electrician is putting the finishing touches to his arrangements . 
He tries vainly to concentrate some light on the box where the committee is to sit , which is screened by a bit of crumbling wall , but finally gives it up . 
Suddenly the bugles sound the orchestra rings out the Marseillaise it is eight o'clock . 
The sky is wild and threatening . 
An unseen hand strikes the three traditional blows . 
, in the midst of such confusion that we hear hardly a word . 
The real interest of the public is only aroused , however , when THE ERYNNIES begins . 
This powerful adaptation from the tragedy of AEschylus is THE CHEF D'OEUVRE of Leconte de Lisle . 
The silence is now complete . 
One feels in the air that the moment so long and so anxiously awaited has come , that a great event is about to take place . 
Every eye is fixed on the stage , waiting to see what will appear from behind the dark arches of the proscenium . 
A faint , plaintive strain of music floats out on the silence . 
Demons crawl among the leafy shadows . 
Not a light is visible , yet the centre of the stage is in strong relief , shading off into a thousand fantastic shadows . 
The audience sits in complete darkness . 
The old men no longer dare to consult the oracles , fearing to learn that all is lost . 
The beauty of this lament roused the first murmur of applause , each word , each syllable , chiming out across that vast semicircle with a clearness and an effect impossible to describe . 
Now it is the sentinel , who from his watch tower has caught the first glimpse of the returning army . 
From that moment the performance is one long triumph . 
, the conqueror ! I never realized before all the perfection that training can give the speaking voice . 
Each syllable seemed to ring out with a bell like clearness . 
As she gradually rose in the last act to the scene with Orestes , I understood the use of the great wall behind the actors . 
It increased the power of the voices and lent them a sonority difficult to believe . 
The effect was overwhelming when , unable to escape death , Clytemnestra cries out her horrible imprecations . 
reaches a splendid climax when she prophesies the misfortune hanging over her family , which she is powerless to avert . 
After the unavoidable confusion at the beginning , the vast audience listen in profound silence to an expression of pure art . 
They are no longer actors we hear , but demi gods . 
Chapter Pre palatial Newport THE historic Ocean House of Newport is a ruin . 
Flames have laid low the unsightly structure that was at one time the best known hotel in America . 
Its fifty odd years of existence , as well as its day , are over . 
There was a certain appropriateness in the manner of its taking off . 
wounded doubtless by unflattering truths , the hotel decided that if its days were numbered , an exit worthy of a leading role was at least possible . 
what would be the most becoming and effective way of retiring from the social whirl . 
Balls have been overdone people are no longer tempted by receptions a banquet was out of the question . 
Suddenly the wily building hit on an idea . 
I'll give them a FEU D'ARTIFICE . 
His Loisel of the Institute , although an insignificant and commonplace man , succeeded all through life in keeping himself before the public , and getting talked about as a celebrity . 
to die during a week when no event of importance was occupying public attention . 
In consequence , reporters , being short of copy , owing to a dearth of murders and first nights , seized on this demise and made his funeral an event . 
The air of Newport has always proved fatal to big hotels . 
One after another they have appeared and failed , the Ocean House alone dragging out a forlorn existence . 
Without greatly stretching a point it might be taken to represent a social condition , a phase , as it were , in our development . 
In a certain obscure way , it was an epoch marking structure . 
Its building closed the era of primitive Newport , its decline corresponded with the end of the pre palatial period an era extending from to . 
The sixties , seventies , and eighties in Newport were pleasant years that many of us regret in spite of modern progress . 
Newport of the Past , WORLDLY WAYS AND BY WAYS . 
Sport was little known then , young men passing their afternoons tooling solemnly up and down Bellevue Avenue in top hats and black frock coats under the burning August sun . 
This was the epoch when the Town and Country Club was young and full of vigor . 
We met at each other's houses or at historic sites to hear papers read on serious subjects . 
One particular afternoon is vivid in my memory . 
We had all driven out to a point on the shore beyond the Third Beach , where the Norsemen were supposed to have landed during their apocryphal visit to this continent . 
It had been a hot drive , but when we stopped , a keen wind was blowing in from the sea . 
Newport during the pre palatial era affected culture , and a whiff of Boston pervaded the air , much of which was tiresome , yet with an under current of charm and refinement . 
Two estates on Bellevue Avenue are now without the hostesses who , in those days , showed the world what great ladies America could produce . 
It was the foreign born husband of one of these women who gave Newport its first lessons in luxurious living . 
Until then Americans had travelled abroad and seen elaborately served meals and properly appointed stables without the ambition of copying such things at home . 
Colonial and revolutionary state had died out , and modern extravagance had not yet appeared . 
In the interregnum much was neglected that might have added to the convenience and grace of life . 
At eleven the doors of the dining room opened , and a line of well drilled darkies passed ices and lemonade . 
every one was at home and abed . 
One remembers with a shudder the military manoeuvres that attended hotel meals in those days , the marching and countermarching , your dinner cooling while the head waiter reviewed his men . 
That idiotic custom has been abandoned , like many better and worse . 
Next to the American ability to catch on comes the facility with which he can drop a fad . 
In this peculiarity the history of Newport has been an epitome of the country , every form of amusement being in turn taken up , run into the ground , and then abandoned . 
I blush to recall it , but at that time most of the turnouts were hired hacks . 
Next , Graves Point , on the Ocean Drive , became the popular meeting place . 
Then society took to attending polo of an afternoon , a sport just introduced from India . 
This era corresponded with the opening of the Casino . 
For several years every one crowded during hot August mornings onto the airless lawns and piazzas of the new establishment . 
It seems on looking back as if we must have been more fond of seeing each other in those days than we are now . 
The opening promenade at the New York Charity Ball is a survival of this inane custom . 
The disappearance of the Ocean House hops marked the last stage in hotel life . 
Since then better class watering places all over the country have slowly but surely followed Newport's lead . 
In consequence the hotel has ceased to be , what it undoubtedly was twenty years ago , the focus of our summer life . 
Only a few charred rafters remain of the Ocean House . 
A few talkative old duffers like myself alone survive the day it represents . 
Changing social conditions have gradually placed both on the retired list . 
A new and palatial Newport has replaced the simpler city . 
Let us not waste too much time regretting the past , or be too sure that it was better than the present . 
, and proceeded to amuse himself therein with the same solemnity which had already made vice at Versailles more boresome than virtue elsewhere . 
Two centuries and four revolutions have swept away all trace of this kingly caprice and the art treasures it contained . 
Alone , the marble horses of Coustou , transported later to the Champs Elysees , remain to attest the splendor of the past . 
On the outskirts of this village are now two forged and gilded gateways through which the passer by can catch a glimpse of trim avenues , fountains , and well kept lawns . 
One of the gates is closed and moss grown . 
Its owner lies in Pere la Chaise . 
At the other I ring , and am soon walking up the famous avenue bordered by colossal sphinxes presented to Sardou by the late Khedive . 
Five minutes later I am being shown through a suite of antique salons , in the last of which sits the great playwright . 
How striking the likeness is to Voltaire , the same delicate face , lit by a half cordial , half mocking smile the same fragile body and indomitable spirit . 
The illusion is enhanced by our surroundings , for the mellow splendor of the room where we stand might have served as a background for the Sage of Ferney . 
Wherever one looks , works of eighteenth century art meet the eye . 
The walls are hung with Gobelin tapestries that fairly take one's breath away , so exquisite is their design and their preservation . 
They represent a marble colonnade , each column of which is wreathed with flowers and connected to its neighbor with garlands . 
Between them are bits of delicate landscape , with here and there a group of figures dancing or picnicking in the shadow of tall trees or under fantastical porticos . 
The furniture of the room is no less marvellous than its hangings . 
One turns from a harpsichord of vernis martin to the clock , a relic from Louis XIV . 
's bedroom in Versailles on to the bric a brac of old Saxe or Sevres in admiring wonder . 
My host drifts into his showman manner , irresistibly comic in this writer . 
The pleasures of the collector are apparently divided into three phases , without counting the rapture of the hunt . 
First , the delight a true amateur takes in living among rare and beautiful things . 
Sardou evidently enjoys these three sensations vividly . 
The mention of Cannes sets Sardou off on another train of thought . 
His family for three generations have lived there . 
Before that they were Sardinian fishermen . 
His great grandfather , he imagines , was driven by some tempest to the shore near Cannes and settled where he found himself . 
Hence the name ! For in the patois of Provencal France an inhabitant of Sardinia is still called UN SARDOU . 
Here another surprise awaits the visitor , who has not realized , perhaps , to what high ground the crawling local train has brought him . 
To our right is the plain of Saint Denis , the cathedral in its midst looking like an opera glass on a green table . 
The little chateau itself , built during the reign of Louis XIV . 
This arrangement for a summer house is for some reason neglected by our American architects . 
I can recall only one home in America built on this plan . 
It is Giraud Foster's beautiful villa at Lenox . 
You may visit five hundred French chateaux and not find one that differs materially from this plan . 
The American idea seems on the contrary to be a square house with a room in each corner , and all the servants' quarters stowed away in a basement . 
Cottage and palace go on reproducing that foolish and inconvenient arrangement indefinitely . 
Good luck has placed in Sardou's hands an old map of the gardens as they existed in the time of Louis XV . 
, and several prints of the chateau dating from about the same epoch have found their way into his portfolios . 
The grounds are , under his care , slowly resuming the appearance of former days . 
Old avenues reopen , statues reappear on the disused pedestals , fountains play again , and clipped hedges once more line out the terraced walks . 
In order to explain how complete this work will be in time , Sardou hurries me off to inspect another part of his collection . 
One shed shelters an entire semicircle of TREILLAGE , pure Louis XV . 
, an exquisite example of a lost art . 
Columns , domes , panels , are packed away in straw awaiting resurrection in some corner hereafter to be chosen . 
Just how this latter find is to be utilized their owner has not yet decided . 
The problem , however , to judge from his manner , is as important to the great playwright as the plot of his next drama . 
Like the true dramatist , he has , however , kept his finest effect for the last . 
In each room stands a writing table and a chair around the walls from floor to ceiling and in huge portfolios are arranged his books and engravings according to their subject . 
The Empire alcove , for instance , contains nothing but publications and pictures relating to that epoch . 
Roman and Greek history have their alcoves , as have mediaeval history and the reigns of the different Louis . 
Nothing could well be conceived more conducive to study than this arrangement , and it makes one realize how honest was the master's reply when asked what was his favorite amusement . 
Work ! answered the author . 
Our conversation , as was fated , soon turned to the enormous success of ROBESPIERRE in London a triumph that even Sardou's many brilliant victories had not yet equalled . 
Even Sardou's business agent , M. Roget , did not get further than Calais , where his courage gave out . 
The fact that the French author resisted Sir Henry Irving's pressing invitations to visit him in no way indicates a lack of interest in the success of the play . 
Declining reluctantly an invitation to take potluck with my host , I was soon in the Avenue of the Sphinx again . 
As we strolled along , talking of the past and its charm , a couple of men passed us , carrying a piece of furniture rolled in burlaps . 
Another acquisition ? I asked . 
What epoch has tempted you this time ? I'm sorry you won't stop and inspect it , answered Sardou with a twinkle in his eye . 
It's something I bought yesterday for my bedroom . 
An armchair ! Pure Loubet ! Chapter Inconsistencies THE dinner had been unusually long and the summer evening warm . 
Through the open window groups of women could be seen in the ball room , and the murmur of their conversation floated out , mingling with the laughter of the men . 
Suddenly , in that casual way peculiar to dreams , I found myself conversing with a solemn young Turk , standing in all the splendor of fez and stambouline beside my chair . 
Pardon , Effendi , he was murmuring . 
Is this an American ball ? I was asked at nine o'clock it is now past eleven . 
Is there not some mistake ? None , I answered . 
When a hostess puts nine o'clock on her card of invitation she expects her guests at eleven or half past , and would be much embarrassed to be taken literally . 
As we were speaking , our host rose . 
The men , reluctantly throwing away their cigars , began to enter the ball room through the open windows . 
Are you sure I have not made a mistake ? asked my interlocutor , with a faint quiver of the eyelids . 
It is my intention , while travelling , to remain faithful to my harem . 
I hastened to reassure him and explain that he was in an exclusive and reserved society . 
Indeed , he murmured incredulously . 
When I was passing through New York last winter a lady was pointed out to me as the owner of marvellous jewels and vast wealth , but with absolutely no social position . 
My informant added that no well born woman would receive her or her husband . 
It's foolish , of course , but the handsome woman with the crown on sitting in the centre of that circle , looks very like the woman I mean . 
Am I right ? It's the same lady , I answered , wearily . 
You are speaking of last year . 
No one could be induced to call on the couple then . 
Now we all go to their house , and entertain them in return . 
They have doubtless done some noble action , or the reports about the husband have been proved false ? Nothing of the kind has taken place . 
While I was speaking , an invisible orchestra began to sigh out the first passionate bars of a waltz . 
A dozen couples rose , the men clasping in their arms the slender matrons , whose smiling faces sank to their partners' shoulders . 
The sleepy Oriental eyes of my new acquaintance opened wide with astonishment . 
This , you must understand , I continued , hastily , is quite another matter . 
It is considered perfectly proper , when the musicians over there play certain measures , for men to take apparent liberties . 
while a different measure was being played , or when there was no music , would be ostracized from polite society . 
I am beginning to understand , replied the Turk . 
The husbands and brothers of these women guard them very carefully . 
Those men I see out there in the dark are doubtless with their wives and sisters , protecting them from the advances of other men . 
Am I right ? Of course you're not right , I snapped out , beginning to lose my temper at his obtuseness . 
No husband would dream of talking to his wife in public , or of sitting with her in a corner . 
Every one would be laughing at them . 
Nor could a sister be induced to remain away from the ball room with her brother . 
Those girls are sitting out' with young men they like , indulging in a little innocent flirtation . 
What is that ? he asked . 
Flirtation ? An American custom rather difficult to explain . 
They are mostly rich men , who , having married beautiful girls for love , wear themselves out maintaining elaborate and costly establishments for them . 
In consequence , she contributes little but nerves' and temper to the household . 
Her sweetest smiles , like her freshest toilets , are kept for the public . 
The husband is the last person considered in an American household . 
If you doubt what I say , look behind you . 
There is a newly married man speaking with his wife , and trying to persuade her to leave before the cotillion begins . 
Notice his apologetic air ! He knows he is interrupting a tender conversation and taking an unwarrantable liberty . 
Nothing short of extreme fatigue would drive him to such an extremity . 
The poor millionnaire has hardly left his desk in Wall Street during the week , and only arrived this evening in time to dress for dinner . 
He would give a fair slice of his income for a night's rest . 
See ! He has failed , and is lighting another cigar , preparing , with a sigh , for a long wait . 
It will be three before my lady is ready to leave . 
At this moment my neighbor's expression changed from bewilderment to admiration , as a young and very lovely matron threw herself , panting , into a low chair at his side . 
Her decollete was so daring that the doubts of half an hour before were evidently rising afresh in his mind . 
Hastily resuming my task of mentor , I explained that a decollete corsage was an absolute rule for evening gatherings . 
A woman who appeared in a high bodice or with her neck veiled would be considered lacking in politeness to her hostess as much if she wore a bonnet . 
With us , women go into the world to shine and charm . 
It is only natural they should use all the weapons nature has given them . 
Very good ! exclaimed the astonished Ottoman . 
Where , O Allah , will you stop ? Ah ! I answered , laughing , the tendency of civilization is to simplify many things may yet disappear . 
You have no prejudice against women wearing in public toilets that we consider fitted only for strict intimacy . 
In that case your ladies may walk about the streets in these costumes ? Not at all ! I cried . 
It would provoke a scandal if a woman were to be seen during the daytime in such attire , either at home or abroad . 
The police and the law courts would interfere . 
No lady would wear a ball costume or her jewels in a building where the general public was admitted . 
In London great ladies dine at restaurants in full evening dress , but we Americans , like the French , consider that vulgar . 
Yet , last winter , he said , when passing through New York , I went to a great theatre , where there were an orchestra and many singing people . 
Were not those respectable women I saw in the boxes ? There were no MOUCHARABIES to screen them from the eyes of the public . 
Were all the men in that building asked by special invitation ? That could hardly be possible , for I paid an entrance fee at the door . 
My poor , innocent Padischa , you do not understand at all . 
That was the opera , which makes all the difference . 
The husbands of those women pay enormous prices , expressly that their wives may exhibit themselves in public , decked in jewels and suggestive toilets . 
You could buy a whole harem of fair Circassians for what one of those little square boxes costs . 
A lady whose entrance caused no sensation would feel bitterly disappointed . 
With us most things are valued by the money they have cost . 
Ladies attend the opera simply and solely to see their friends and be admired . 
It grieves me to see that you are forming a poor opinion of our woman kind , for they are more charming and modest than any foreign women . 
A girl or matron who exhibits more of her shoulders than you , with your Eastern ideas , think quite proper , would sooner expire than show an inch above her ankle . 
We have our way of being modest as well as you , and that is one of our strongest prejudices . 
Were those women above suspicion ? Absolutely , I assured him , feeling inclined to tear my hair at such stupidity . 
Can't you see the difference ? That was in daylight . 
Our customs allow a woman to show her feet , and even a little more , in the morning . 
It would be considered the acme of indecency to let those beauties be seen at a ball . 
The law allows a woman to uncover her neck and shoulders at a ball , but she would be arrested if she appeared decollete on the beach of a morning . 
A long silence followed , broken only by the music and laughter from the ball room . 
I do not doubt that what you have said is full of the wisdom and consistency of a new civilization , which I fail to appreciate . 
Then , with a sigh , he added It will be better for me to return to my own country , where there are fewer exceptions to rules . 
With a profound salaam the gentle youth disappeared into the surrounding darkness , leaving me rubbing my eyes and asking myself if , after all , the dreamland Oriental was not about right . 
Custom makes many inconsistencies appear so logical that they no longer cause us either surprise or emotion . 
The theatrical stars in their courses proved favorable to the accomplishment of this vow . 
come delightfully near realizing the happy conditions of other days , and less the fighting form as joyous and picturesque a company as their historic elders . 
It was an invitation to join one of these tramps that tempted my friend and me away from Paris at the season when that city is at its best . 
After having seen Aigues Mortes , it was difficult to believe that any other place in Europe could suggest more vividly the days of military feudalism . 
as when the Crusaders started from its crenelated gates for the conquest of the Holy Sepulchre . 
As the gaudy standard unfolded on the evening air , Mounet Sully's incomparable voice breathed the very soul of the Burgraves across the silent plain and down through the echoing corridors below . 
While we were still under the impression of the stirring lines , he changed his key and whispered LE SOIR TOMBE . 
L'HEURE DOUCE QUI S'ELOIGNE SANS SECOUSSE , POSE A PEINE SUR LA MOUSSE SES PIEDS . 
UN JOUR INDECIS PERSISTE , ET LE CREPUSCULE TRISTE OUVRE SES YEUX D'AMETHYSTE MOUILLES . 
Picture this scene to yourself , reader mine , and you will understand the enthusiasm of the artists and writers in our clan . 
It needed but little imagination then to reconstruct the past and fancy one's self back in the days when the Trancavel held this city against the world . 
Sleep that night was filled with a strange phantasmagoria of crenelated chateaux and armored knights , until the bright Provencal sunlight and the call for a hurried departure dispelled such illusions . 
One asks one's self in wonder why these enchanting regions are so unknown . 
EN ROUTE our companions were like children fresh from school , taking haphazard meals at the local inns and clambering gayly into any conveyance that came to hand . 
As our way led us through the Cevennes country , another charm gradually stole over the senses . 
As he spoke he began declaiming the passage from Sophocles's OEDIPUS THE KING descriptive if that classic scene . 
Two thousand feet below lay Ispanhac in a verdant valley , the River Tarn gleaming amid the cultivated fields like a cimeter thrown on a Turkish carpet . 
As we neared our goal its entire population , headed by the cure , came out to meet us and offer the hospitality of the town . 
Another scene recurs vividly to my memory . 
I had opened my window to breathe the night air after the heat and dust of the day and watch the moonlight on the quaint bridge at my feet . 
the exquisite tone of Sylvain's voice , alternating with the baritone of d'Esparbes . 
They were seated at the water's edge , intoxicated by the beauty of the scene and apparently oblivious of all else . 
Our last stop before arriving at Beziers was at La Case , where luncheon was served in the great hall of the chateau . 
Armand Sylvestre presided at the repast his verses alternated with the singings of Emma Calve , who had come from her neighboring chateau to greet her old friends and compatriots , the Cadets . 
The morning of the great day dawned cloudless and cool . 
A laughing , many colored throng early invaded the arena , the women's gay toilets lending it some resemblance to a parterre of fantastic flowers . 
Three hundred hidden musicians , divided into wind and chord orchestras , accompany a chorus of two hundred executants , and furnish the music for a ballet of seventy dancers . 
As the third stroke dies away , the Muse , Mademoiselle Rabuteau , enters and declaims the salutation addressed by Louis Gallet to the City of Beziers . 
At its conclusion the tragedy begins . 
This is not the place to describe or criticise at length so new an attempt at classic restoration . 
The author follows the admirable fable of antiquity with a directness and simplicity worthy of his Greek model . 
The story of Dejanira and Hercules is too familiar to be repeated here . 
The hero's infidelity and the passion of a neglected woman are related through five acts logically and forcibly , with the noble music of Saint Saens as a background . 
We watch the growing affection of the demi god for the gentle Iole . 
At the opening of the fifth act we witness the nuptial fetes . 
Religious dances and processions circle around the pyre laid for a marriage sacrifice . 
Dejanira , hidden in the throng , watches in an agony of hope for the miracle to be worked . 
Hercules accepts the fatal garment from the hands of his bride and calls upon the sun god to ignite the altars . 
The pyre flames , the heat warms the clinging tunic , which wraps Hercules in its folds of torture . 
No feeble prose , no characters of black or white , can do justice to the closing scenes of this performance . 
, and inscribe PAR LA LANGUA ET PAR L'EPEE' upon our banner , that these purposes may be read by the world as it runs . 
Yet curiously enough , each decade , each season widens the breach between our discriminating public and the stage . 
There can be little doubt that the deterioration in the class of plays produced at our theatres has been brought about by changes in our social conditions . 
Foremost , however , among the causes should be placed an exceedingly simple and prosaic fact which seems to have escaped notice . 
I refer to the displacement of the dinner hour , and the ceremony now surrounding that meal . 
In those tranquil days when dinner parties were few and dances a rarity , theatre going was the one ripple on the quiet stream of home life . 
Wallack's , at the corner of Thirteenth Street and Broadway , Booth's in Twenty third Street , and Fechter's in Fourteenth Street were the homes of good comedy and high class tragedy . 
Not only has the hour changed , but the meal itself has undergone a radical transformation , in keeping with the general increase of luxurious living , becoming a serious although hurried function . 
In addition to this , dozens of sumptuous establishments have sprung up where the pleasure of eating is supplemented by allurements to the eye and ear . 
Fine orchestras play nightly , the air is laden with the perfume of flowers , a scenic perspective of palm garden and marble corridor flatters the senses . 
If , however , tempted by some success , he hurries his guests away from their meal , they are in no condition to appreciate a serious performance . 
The pressure has been too high all day for the overworked man and his ENERVEE wife to desire any but the lightest tomfoolery in an entertainment . 
People engaged in the lethargic process of digestion are not good critics of either elevated poetry or delicate interpretation , and in consequence crave amusement rather than a mental stimulant . 
New York influences the taste of the country it is in New York really that the standard has been lowered . 
, no other people entertain for the pleasure of hospitality . 
On the Continent , a dinner party is always an axe grinding function . 
A family who asked people to dine without having a distinct end in view for such an outlay would be looked upon by their friends and relatives as little short of lunatics . 
Diplomatists are allowed certain sums by their governments for entertaining , and are formally dined in return by their guests . 
Parisian ladies rarely go to restaurants . 
This leaves people abroad with a number of evenings on their hands , unoccupied hours that are generally passed at the theatre . 
Only the other day a diplomatist said to me , I am surprised to see how small a place the theatre occupies in your thoughts and conversation . 
With us it is the pivot around which life revolves . 
From one cause or another , not only the wealthy , but the thoughtful and cultivated among us , go less each year to the theatre . 
The abstinence of this class is the most significant , for well read , refined , fastidious citizens are the pride of a community , and their influence for good is far reaching . 
Of this elite New York has more than its share , but you will not meet them at the play , unless Duse or Jefferson , Bernhardt or Coquelin is performing . 
The best only tempts such minds . 
It was by the encouragement of this class that Booth was enabled to give HAMLET one hundred consecutive evenings , and Fechter was induced to linger here and build a theatre . 
In comparison with the verdicts of such people , the opinions of fashionable sets are of little importance . 
To get a laugh , at any price , has become the ambition of most actors and the dream of managers . 
A young actress in a company that played an American translation of MME . 
SANS GENE all over this continent asked me recently what I thought of their performance . 
I said I thought it a burlesque of the original ! If you thought it a burlesque here in town , she answered , it's well you didn't see us on the road . 
There was no monkey trick we would not play to raise a laugh . 
It is surprising to find the number who will answer in reply to a question about the merits of a play EN VOGUE , I have not seen it . 
In fact I rarely go to a theatre unless I am in London or on the Continent ! Little by little we have taken to turning in a vicious and ever narrowing circle . 
The poorer the plays , the less clever people will make the effort necessary to see them , and the less such elite attend , the poorer the plays will become . 
That this state of affairs is going to last , however , I do not believe . 
The darkest hour is ever the last before the dawn . 
At present we are like people dying of starvation because they do not know how to combine the flour and water and yeast before them into wholesome bread . 
The materials for a brilliant and distinctly national stage undoubtedly exist in this country . 
No , I haven't seen you act . 
The austere calm of Bruges or Ghent , the sensuous beauty of Naples , attract different natures . 
Florence has passionate devotees , who are insensible to the artistic grace of Venice or the stately quiet of Versailles . 
In Cairo one experiences an exquisite BIEN ETRE , a mindless , ambitionless contentment which , without being languor , soothes the nerves and tempts to indolent lotus eating . 
Like a great hive , Rome depends on the memories that circle around her , storing , like bees , the centuries with their honey . 
Each of these cities must therefore leave many people unmoved , who after a passing visit , wander away , wondering at the enthusiasm of the worshippers . 
Paris alone seems to possess the charm that bewitches all conditions , all ages , all degrees . 
To hold the frivolous minded she paints her face and dances , leading them a round of folly , exhaustive alike to health and purse . 
For the student she assumes another mien , smiling encouragement , and urging him upward towards the highest standards , while posing as his model . 
Paris is no less adored by the vacant minded , to whom neither art nor pleasure nor study appeal . 
Her caprices in fashion are received by the wives and daughters of the universe as laws , and obeyed with an unwavering faith , a mute obedience that few religions have commanded . 
Mohammedans at Mecca must have some such look . 
In Paris women find themselves in the presence of those high priests whom they have long worshipped from a distance . 
It is useless to mention other subjects to the devotee , for they will not fix her attention . 
Her thoughts are with her heart , and that is far away . 
When visiting other cities one feels that they are like honest married women , living quiet family lives , surrounded by their children . 
Like her classic prototype , Paris is also the companion of the philosophers and leads the arts in her train . 
To be loved by Paris is an ordeal that few natures can stand , for she wrings the lifeblood from her devotees and then casts them aside into oblivion . 
Not for one moment did she hesitate , but threw the whole weight of her influence and wit into the scale for Spain . 
If there is not at this moment a European alliance against America it is not from any lack of effort on her part towards that end . 
The stand taken by LA VILLA LUMIERE in that crisis caused many naive Americans , who believed that their weakness for the French capital was returned , a painful surprise . 
It is the inconstant capital alone that , false to her role of liberator , has sided with the tyrant . 
One's first home impression after a season of lazy Continental travelling and visiting in somnolent English country houses , is that an emblematical Ethiopian should be quartered on our national arms . 
This fleeting receptiveness makes returning Americans painfully conscious of nerves in the home atmosphere , and the headlong pace at which our compatriots are living . 
The habit of laying such faults to the climate is but a poor excuse . 
Our grandparents and their parents lived peaceful lives beneath these same skies , undisturbed by the morbid influences that are supposed to key us to such a painful concert pitch . 
The very dogs had apparently no time to loiter , but scurried about as though late for their engagements . 
A curious curse has fallen upon our people an influence is at work which forces us to attempt in an hour just twice as much as can be accomplished in sixty minutes . 
Do as well as you can , whispers the influence , but do it quickly ! That motto might be engraved upon the fronts of our homes and business buildings . 
It is on account of this new standard that rapidity in a transaction on the Street is appreciated more than correctness of detail . 
A broker to day will take more credit for having received and executed an order for Chicago and returned an answer within six minutes , than for any amount of careful work . 
, I had an opportunity of studying the ways of the modern time saving young man . 
before removing either coat or hat . 
At least fifteen seconds may be economized in this way . 
Once seated , the luncher falls to on anything at hand bread , cold slaw , crackers , or catsup . 
Cups of coffee or tea go down in two swallows . 
A really accomplished luncher can assimilate his last quarter of cakes , wiggle into his coat , and pay his check at the desk at the same moment . 
The next , he is down the block in pursuit of a receding trolley . 
It seems to be wrong to waste time on anything so unproductive . 
Last week a friend offered me a luncheon tablet from a box on his desk . 
A parlor car , toward a journey's end , is another excellent place to observe our native ways . 
Coming from Washington the other day my fellow passengers began to show signs of restlessness near Newark . 
Books and papers were thrown aside a general uprising , unveiling followed , accompanied by our objectionable custom of having our clothes brushed in each other's faces . 
The explanation of this is quite simple . 
The influence was at work , preventing those people from acting like other civilized mortals , and remaining seated until their train had come to a standstill . 
In Paris , on taking an omnibus , you are given a number and the right to the first vacant seat . 
When the places in a bus are all occupied it receives no further occupants . 
A small boy of my acquaintance tells me he rarely finds it necessary to pay in a New York car . 
The conductors are too hurried and too preoccupied pocketing their share of the receipts to keep count . 
When he passes , I just look blank ! remarked the ingenious youth . 
From the moment a man of leisure , or his wife , wakens in the morning until they drop into a fitful slumber at night , their day is an agitated chase . 
No matter where or when you meet them , they are always on the wing . 
Am I late again ? gasped a thin little woman to me the other evening , as she hurried into the drawing room , where she had kept her guests and dinner waiting . 
His color and most of his hair had gone in its pursuit , while his hands had acquired a twitch , as though urging on a tired steed . 
If she writes to you , her notes are signed , In great haste , or In a tearing hurry . 
Just what drives her so hard is a mystery , for beyond a vague charity meeting or two and some calls , she accomplishes little . 
Although wealthy and childless , with no cares and few worries , she succumbs to nervous prostration every two or three years , from overwork . 
Then follows a list of the many countries seen during his tour . 
I know a lady lying ill to day because she would hurry herself and her children , in six weeks last summer , through a Continental tour that should have occupied three months . 
There is an impression that the fashion for quickly served dinners came to us from England . 
, we owe H. R. H. a debt of gratitude , for nothing is so tiresome as too many courses needlessly prolonged . 
Like all converts , however , we are too zealous . 
The one place , however , where you might expect to find people reposeful and calm is at the theatre . 
The labor of the day is then over they have assembled for an hour or two of relaxation and amusement . 
Yet it is at the play that our restlessness is most apparent . 
during the last ten minutes of a performance . 
No sooner do they discover that the end is drawing near than people begin to struggle into their wraps . 
By the time the players have lined up before the footlights the house is full of disappearing backs . 
to deliver the closing ENVOI dear to the writers of Queen Anne's day . 
Before he had finished the first line of his epilogue , most of his public would be housed in the rapid transit cars . 
No talent , no novelty holds our audiences to the end of a performance . 
One overworked matron of my acquaintance has perfected an ingenious and time saving combination . 
By signalling from a window near her opera box to a footman below , she is able to get her carriage at least two minutes sooner than her neighbors . 
During the last act of an opera like TANN HAUSER or FAUST , in which the inconsiderate composer has placed a musical gem at the end , this lady is worth watching . 
We deplore the prevailing habit of slouch yet if you think of it , this universal hurry is the cause of it . 
Our cities are left unsightly , because we cannot spare time to beautify them . 
Libraries and manuscripts are catacombs where most of us might wander in the dark forever , finding no issue . 
This employment of his genius is Michelet's title to fame . 
Nothing that can recall either his life or his labor is changed . 
Madame Michelet's life is in strange contrast with the ways of the modern spouse who , under pretext of grief , discards and displaces every reminder of the dead . 
By her care the apartment remains as it stood when he left it , to die at Hyeres , the furniture , the paintings , the writing table . 
No stranger has sat in his chair , no acquaintance has drunk from his cup . 
This woman , who was a perfect wife and now fills one's ideal of what a widow's life should be , has constituted herself the vigilant guardian of her husband's memory . 
She loves to talk of the illustrious dead , and tell how he was fond of saying that Virgil and Vico were his parents . 
The author of LA BIBLE DE L'HUMANITE had to a supreme degree the love of country , and possessed the power of reincarnating with each succeeding cycle of its history . 
So luminous was his mind , so profound and far reaching his sympathy , that he understood the obscure workings of the mediaeval mind as clearly as he appreciated Mirabeau's transcendent genius . 
An historian , if what he writes is to have any value , must know the people , the one great historical factor . 
Radicalism in history is the beginning of truth . 
After studying his own land through the thirteen centuries of her growth , from the chart of Childebert to the will of Louis XVI . 
, Michelet declared that while England is a composite empire and Germany a region , France is a personality . 
In consequence he regarded the history of his country as a long dramatic poem . 
Here we reach the inner thought of the historian , the secret impulse that guided his majestic pen . 
The veritable hero of his splendid Iliad is at first ignorant and obscure , seeking passionately like OEdipus to know himself . 
The interest of the piece is absorbing . 
For Michelet to write the history of his country was to describe the long evolution of a hero . 
Seeking in the remote past for the origin of his hero , Michelet pauses first before THE CATHEDRAL . 
The poem begins like some mediaeval tale . 
The first years of his youthful country are devoted to a mystic religion . 
Under his ardent hands vast naves rise and belfries touch the clouds . 
It is but a sad and cramped development , however statutes restrain his young ardor and chill his blood . 
It is not until the boy is behind the plough in the fields and sunlight that his real life begins a poor , brutish existence , if you will , but still life . 
The Jacques , half man and half beast , of the Middle Ages is the result of a thousand years of suffering . 
A woman's voice calls this brute to arms . 
An enemy is overrunning the land . 
Joan the virgin my Joan , Michelet calls her whose heart bleeds when blood is shed , frees her country . 
A shadow , however , soon obscures this gracious vision from Jacques's eyes . 
The vast monarchical incubus rises between the people and their ideal . 
Our historian turns in disgust from the later French kings . 
He has neither time nor heart to write their history , so passes quickly from Louis XI . 
to the great climax of his drama the Revolution . 
There we find his hero , emerging at last from tyranny and oppression . 
Freedom and happiness are before him . 
Alas ! his eyes , accustomed to the dim light of dungeons , are dazzled by the sun of liberty he strikes friend and foe alike . 
His long labor is drawing to an end . 
The great epic which he has followed as it developed through the centuries is complete . 
His hero stands hand in hand before the altar with the spouse of his choice , for whose smile he has toiled and struggled . 
The poet historian sees again in the FETE DE LA FEDERATION the radiant face of his vision , the true face of France , LA DULCE . 
Through all the lyricism of this master's work one feels that he has lived history as he wrote it , following his subject from its obscure genesis to a radiant apotheosis . 
The faithful companion of Michelet's age has borne witness to this power which he possessed of projecting himself into another age and living with his subject . 
That was the week he executed Danton . 
We were living in the country near Nantes . 
The ground was covered with snow . 
After one of these fecund hours he would drop into his chair and murmur , I am crushed by this work . 
I have been writing with my blood ! Alas , his aged eyes were destined to read sadder pages than he had ever written , to see years as tragic as the Terror . 
his country's humiliation , and fell one April morning , in his retirement near Pisa , unconscious under the double shock of invasion and civil war . 
Though he recovered later , his horizon remained dark . 
FINIS GALLIAE , murmured the historian , who to the end lived and died with his native land . 
