Weir of Hermiston by Robert Louis Stevenson . 
Scanned and proofed by David Price , email ccx coventry . 
uk Weir of Hermiston TO MY WIFE I saw rain falling and the rainbow drawn On Lammermuir . 
Hearkening I heard again In my precipitous city beaten bells Winnow the keen sea wind . 
And here afar , Intent on my own race and place , I wrote . 
Take thou the writing thine it is . 
It was here that Claverhouse shot with his own hand the Praying Weaver of Balweary , and the chisel of Old Mortality has clinked on that lonely gravestone . 
The Deil's Hags was the old name . 
But the place is now called Francie's Cairn . 
For a while it was told that Francie walked . 
Aggic Hogg met him in the gloaming by the cairnside , and he spoke to her , with chattering teeth , so that his words were lost . 
for the space of half a mile with pitiful entreaties . 
CHAPTER I LIFE AND DEATH OF MRS . 
WEIR THE Lord Justice Clerk was a stranger in that part of the country but his lady wife was known there from a child , as her race had been before her . 
Tales of them were rife for twenty miles about and their name was even printed in the page of our Scots histories , not always to their credit . 
died presiding at a Hell Fire Club , of which he was the founder . 
There were many heads shaken in Crossmichael at that judgment the more so as the man had a villainous reputation among high and low , and both with the godly and the worldly . 
At that very hour of his demise , he had ten going pleas before the Session , eight of them oppressive . 
surviving him not long , and dying on a sudden in a bloody flux . 
It seemed this succession of martyrs bided long , but took their vengeance in the end , and that was in the person of the last descendant , Jean . 
She bore the name of the Rutherfords , but she was the daughter of their trembling wives . 
At the first she was not wholly without charm . 
It was a wonder to many that she had married seeming so wholly of the stuff that makes old maids . 
He was one who looked rather to obedience than beauty , yet it would seem he was struck with her at the first look . 
Wha's she ? he said , turning to his host and , when he had been told , Ay , says he , she looks menseful . 
, Is she releegious ? he asked , and was shortly after , at his own request , presented . 
The motives upon either side were much debated . 
Her descent and her estate were beyond question . 
Her wayfaring ancestors and her litigious father had done well by Jean . 
Being so trenchantly opposed to all she knew , loved , or understood , he may well have seemed to her the extreme , if scarcely the ideal , of his sex . 
And besides , he was an ill man to refuse . 
His house in George Square was wretchedly ill guided nothing answerable to the expense of maintenance but the cellar , which was his own private care . 
She would seek out the cook , who was always her SISTER IN THE LORD . 
would be worse , if anything , but just as pious . 
It was often wondered that Lord Hermiston bore it as he did indeed , he was a stoical old voluptuary , contented with sound wine and plenty of it . 
But there were moments when he overflowed . 
Once only , Mrs. Weir had ventured to appeal . 
He was passing her chair on his way into the study . 
O , Edom ! she wailed , in a voice tragic with tears , and reaching out to him both hands , in one of which she held a sopping pocket handkerchief . 
He paused and looked upon her with a face of wrath , into which there stole , as he looked , a twinkle of humour . 
And with these words , which echoed in her tender ears like blasphemy , he had passed on to his study and shut the door behind him . 
Such was the housewifery in George Square . 
Kirstie was a woman in a thousand , clean , capable , notable once a moorland Helen , and still comely as a blood horse and healthy as the hill wind . 
High in flesh and voice and colour , she ran the house with her whole intemperate soul , in a bustle , not without buffets . 
Scarce more pious than decency in those days required , she was the cause of many an anxious thought and many a tearful prayer to Mrs. Weir . 
Housekeeper and mistress renewed the parts of Martha and Mary and though with a pricking conscience , Mary reposed on Martha's strength as on a rock . 
Even Lord Hermiston held Kirstie in a particular regard . 
There were few with whom he unbent so gladly , few whom he favoured with so many pleasantries . 
Kirstie and me maun have our joke , he would declare in high good humour , as he buttered Kirstie's scones , and she waited at table . 
He thought maid and master were well matched hard , bandy , healthy , broad Scots folk , without a hair of nonsense to the pair of them . 
Thus , at least , when the family were at Hermiston , not only my lord , but Mrs. Weir too , enjoyed a holiday . 
, sometimes by herself , sometimes with Archie , the only child of that scarce natural union . 
The child was her next bond to life . 
Her frosted sentiment bloomed again , she breathed deep of life , she let loose her heart , in that society . 
The miracle of her motherhood was ever new to her . 
The sight of the little man at her skirt intoxicated her with the sense of power , and froze her with the consciousness of her responsibility . 
Archie was to be a great man and a good a minister if possible , a saint for certain . 
She tried to engage his mind upon her favourite books , Rutherford's LETTERS , Scougalls GRACE ABOUNDING , and the like . 
that she would carry the child to the Deil's Hags , sit with him on the Praying Weaver's stone , and talk of the Covenanters till their tears ran down . 
PERSECUTOR was a word that knocked upon the woman's heart it was her highest thought of wickedness , and the mark of it was on her house . 
Her great great grandfather had drawn the sword against the Lord's anointed on the field of Rullion Green , and breathed his last in the arms of the detestable Dalyell . 
Keep me , my dear ! this is poleetical . 
Ye must never ask me anything poleetical , Erchie . 
Your faither is a great man , my dear , and it's no for me or you to be judging him . 
Mrs. Weir's philosophy of life was summed in one expression tenderness . 
usefully booming outside on the dogmatic ramparts and meanwhile , within and out of shot , dwelt in her private garden which she watered with grateful tears . 
It seems strange to say of this colourless and ineffectual woman , but she was a true enthusiast , and might have made the sunshine and the glory of a cloister . 
Perhaps none but Archie knew she could be eloquent perhaps none but he had seen her her colour raised , her hands clasped or quivering glow with gentle ardour . 
like a precious jewel in the heavens . 
On such days , upon the sudden view of it , her hand would tighten on the child's fingers , her voice rise like a song . 
I TO THE HILLS ! she would repeat . 
And O , Erchie , are nae these like the hills of Naphtali ? and her tears would flow . 
Upon an impressionable child the effect of this continual and pretty accompaniment to life was deep . 
The woman's quietism and piety passed on to his different nature undiminished but whereas in her it was a native sentiment , in him it was only an implanted dogma . 
Nature and the child's pugnacity at times revolted . 
The judge was that day in an observant mood , and remarked upon the absent teeth . 
I am afraid Erchie will have been fechting with some of they blagyard lads , said Mrs. Weir . 
My lord's voice rang out as it did seldom in the privacy of his own house . 
I'll have norm of that , sir ! he cried . 
Do you hear me ? nonn of that ! No son of mine shall be speldering in the glaur with any dirty raibble . 
The anxious mother was grateful for so much support she had even feared the contrary . 
Ice and iron cannot be welded and the points of view of the Justice Clerk and Mrs. Weir were not less unassimilable . 
The character and position of his father had long been a stumbling block to Archie , and with every year of his age the difficulty grew more instant . 
Tenderness was the first duty , and my lord was invariably harsh . 
In the world , as schematised for Archie by his mother , the place was marked for such a creature . 
The mother's honesty was scarce complete . 
As long as Archie remained silent , she did so ruthlessly , with a single eye to heaven and the child's salvation but the day came when Archie spoke . 
It was , and Archie was seven , and beyond his years for curiosity and logic , when he brought the case up openly . 
Mrs. Weir abounded in commonplace replies . 
No , I cannae see it , reiterated Archie . 
And I'll tell you what , mamma , I don't think you and me's justifeed in staying with him . 
she took a certain subdued pride . 
And it seems that's not the worst yet of it . 
It seems he's called The Hanging judge it seems he's crooool . 
O , my lamb , ye must never say the like of that ! she cried . 
Ye're to honour faither and mother , dear , that your days may be long in the land . 
And no doubt it is easy thus to circumvent a child with catchwords , but it may be questioned how far it is effectual . 
An instinct in his breast detects the quibble , and a voice condemns it . 
He will instantly submit , privately hold the same opinion . 
For even in this simple and antique relation of the mother and the child , hypocrisies are multiplied . 
When the Court rose that year and the family returned to Hermiston , it was a common remark in all the country that the lady was sore failed . 
She seemed to loose and seize again her touch with life , now sitting inert in a sort of durable bewilderment , anon waking to feverish and weak activity . 
During this period , she gave many gifts to the neighbours and house lasses , giving them with a manner of regret that embarrassed the recipients . 
inquired as to its nature . 
She blushed to the eyes . 
O , Edom , it's for you ! she said . 
I I hae never made ye any . 
Ye daft auld wife ! returned his lordship . 
A bonny figure I would be , palmering about in bauchles ! The next day , at the hour of her walk , Kirstie interfered . 
Kirstie took this decay of her mistress very hard bore her a grudge , quarrelled with and railed upon her , the anxiety of a genuine love wearing the disguise of temper . 
This day of all days she insisted disrespectfully , with rustic fury , that Mrs. Weir should stay at home . 
But , No , no , she said , it's my lord's orders , and set forth as usual . 
The house lasses were at the burnside washing , and saw her pass with her loose , weary , dowdy gait . 
She's a terrible feckless wife , the mistress ! said the one . 
Tut , said the other , the wumman's seeck . 
Weel , I canna see nae differ in her , returned the first . 
A fushionless quean , a feckless carline . 
The poor creature thus discussed rambled a while in the grounds without a purpose . 
Tides in her mind ebbed and flowed , and carried her to and fro like seaweed . 
She tried a path , paused , returned , and tried another questing , forgetting her quest the spirit of choice extinct in her bosom , or devoid of sequency . 
Kirstie ! she began , and paused and then with conviction , Mr. Weir isna speeritually minded , but he has been a good man to me . 
It was perhaps the first time since her husband's elevation that she had forgotten the handle to his name , of which the tender , inconsistent woman was not a little proud . 
And when Kirstie looked up at the speaker's face , she was aware of a change . 
Godsake , what's the maitter wi' ye , mem ? cried the housekeeper , starting from the rug . 
I do not ken , answered her mistress , shaking her head . 
But he is not speeritually minded , my dear . 
Here , sit down with ye ! Godsake , what ails the wife ? cried Kirstie , and helped and forced her into my lord's own chair by the cheek of the hearth . 
Keep me , what's this ? she gasped . 
Kirstie , what's this ? I'm frich'ened . 
They were her last words . 
It was the lowering nightfall when my lord returned . 
He had the sunset in his back , all clouds and glory and before him , by the wayside , spied Kirstie Elliott waiting . 
She was dissolved in tears , and addressed him in the high , false note of barbarous mourning , such as still lingers modified among Scots heather . 
The Lord peety ye , Hermiston ! the Lord prepare ye ! she keened out . 
Weary upon me , that I should have to tell it ! He reined in his horse and looked upon her with the hanging face . 
Has the French landit ? cried he . 
Man , man , she said , is that a' ye can think of ? The Lord prepare ye the Lord comfort and support ye ! Is onybody deid ? said his lordship . 
It's no Erchie ? Bethankit , no ! exclaimed the woman , startled into a more natural tone . 
Na , na , it's no sae bad as that . 
It's the mistress , my lord she just fair flittit before my e'en . 
She just gi'ed a sab and was by wi' it . 
Eh , my bonny Miss Jeannie , that I mind sae weel ! And forth again upon that pouring tide of lamentation in which women of her class excel and over abound . 
Lord Hermiston sat in the saddle beholding her . 
Then he seemed to recover command upon himself . 
Well , it's something of the suddenest , said he . 
But she was a dwaibly body from the first . 
And he rode home at a precipitate amble with Kirstie at his horse's heels . 
Dressed as she was for her last walk , they had laid the dead lady on her bed . 
Her and me were never cut out for one another , he remarked at last . 
It was a daft like marriage . 
Ye have some kind of gumption , too , observed the judge , and considered his housekeeper grimly . 
We think of her that's out of her sorrows . 
CHAPTER II FATHER AND SON MY Lord Justice Clerk was known to many the man Adam Weir perhaps to none . 
to acquire glory or love , seemed in him to be omitted . 
He did not try to be loved , he did not care to be it is probable the very thought of it was a stranger to his mind . 
He saw little of his son . 
Once , a court holiday falling opportunely , my lord had his carriage , and drove the child himself to Hermiston , the customary place of convalescence . 
Daily , indeed , upon a signal after dinner , he was brought in , given nuts and a glass of port , regarded sardonically , sarcastically questioned . 
Well , sir , and what have you donn with your book to day ? my lord might begin , and set him posers in law Latin . 
To a child just stumbling into Corderius , Papinian and Paul proved quite invincible . 
But papa had memory of no other . 
He was not harsh to the little scholar , having a vast fund of patience learned upon the bench , and was at no pains whether to conceal or to express his disappointment . 
As he thus watched in the night , or sat at table and forgot the presence of his son , no doubt but he tasted deeply of recondite pleasures . 
This atmosphere of his father's sterling industry was the best of Archie's education . 
Assuredly it did not attract him assuredly it rather rebutted and depressed . 
Yet it was still present , unobserved like the ticking of a clock , an arid ideal , a tasteless stimulant in the boy's life . 
But Hermiston was not all of one piece . 
Now , the boy had inherited from Jean Rutherford a shivering delicacy , unequally mated with potential violence . 
he turned pale and sickened in silence . 
Of all the guests whom he there encountered , he had toleration for only one David Keith Carnegie , Lord Glenalmond . 
Lord Glenalmond was tall and emaciated , with long features and long delicate hands . 
He was often compared with the statue of Forbes of Culloden in the Parliament House and his blue eye , at more than sixty , preserved some of the fire of youth . 
And so this is your son , Hermiston ? he asked , laying his hand on Archie's shoulder . 
He's getting a big lad . 
The beautiful gentleness and grace of the old judge , and the delicacy of his person , thoughts , and language , spoke to Archie's heart in its own tongue . 
Hermiston looked on at this friendship with some secret pride , but openly with the intolerance of scorn . 
He scarce lost an opportunity to put them down with a rough jape and , to say truth , it was not difficult , for they were neither of them quick . 
He had a word of contempt for the whole crowd of poets , painters , fiddlers , and their admirers , the bastard race of amateurs , which was continually on his lips . 
Signor Feedle eerie ! he would say . 
O , for Goad's sake , no more of the Signor ! You and my father are great friends , are you not ? asked Archie once . 
There is no man that I more respect , Archie , replied Lord Glenalmond . 
He is two things of price . 
He is a great lawyer , and he is upright as the day . 
You and he are so different , said the boy , his eyes dwelling on those of his old friend , like a lover's on his mistress's . 
Indeed so , replied the judge very different . 
And so I fear are you and he . 
Yet I would like it very ill if my young friend were to misjudge his father . 
He has all the Roman virtues Cato and Brutus were such I think a son's heart might well be proud of such an ancestry of one . 
And I would sooner he were a plaided herd , cried Archie , with sudden bitterness . 
And that is neither very wise , nor I believe entirely true , returned Glenalmond . 
Before you are done you will find some of these expressions rise on you like a remorse . 
would say , Signor Feedle eerie ! With the infinitely delicate sense of youth , Archie avoided the subject from that hour . 
It was perhaps a pity . 
, there might have been no tale to write upon the Weirs of Hermiston . 
But the shadow of a threat of ridicule sufficed in the slight tartness of these words he read a prohibition and it is likely that Glenalmond meant it so . 
Besides the veteran , the boy was without confidant or friend . 
Serious and eager , he came through school and college , and moved among a crowd of the indifferent , in the seclusion of his shyness . 
He grew up handsome , with an open , speaking countenance , with graceful , youthful ways he was clever , he took prizes , he shone in the Speculative Society . 
It is a fact , and a strange one , that among his contemporaries Hermiston's son was thought to be a chip of the old block . 
You're a friend of Archie Weir's ? said one to Frank Innes and Innes replied , with his usual flippancy and more than his usual insight I know Weir . 
but I never met Archie . 
No one had met Archie , a malady most incident to only sons . 
With a face , voice , and manner trained through forty years to terrify and repel , Rhadamanthus may be great , but he will scarce be engaging . 
It is a fact that he tried to propitiate Archie , but a fact that cannot be too lightly taken the attempt was so unconspicuously made , the failure so stoically supported . 
Sympathy is not due to these steadfast iron natures . 
If he failed to gain his son's friendship , or even his son's toleration , on he went up the great , bare staircase of his duty , uncheered and undepressed . 
An idea of Archie's attitude , since we are all grown up and have forgotten the days of our youth , it is more difficult to convey . 
He made no attempt whatsoever to understand the man with whom he dined and breakfasted . 
Parsimony of pain , glut of pleasure , these are the two alternating ends of youth and Archie was of the parsimonious . 
The father , with a grand simplicity , either spoke of what interested himself , or maintained an unaffected silence . 
Well , it's a poor hert that never rejoices ! he would say , at the conclusion of such a nightmare interview . 
But I must get to my plew stilts . 
And he would seclude himself as usual in his back room , and Archie go forth into the night and the city quivering with animosity and scorn . 
CHAPTER III IN THE MATTER OF THE HANGING OF DUNCAN JOPP IT chanced in the year that Archie strayed one day into the Justiciary Court . 
The macer made room for the son of the presiding judge . 
In the dock , the centre of men's eyes , there stood a whey coloured , misbegotten caitiff , Duncan Jopp , on trial for his life . 
There was pinned about his throat a piece of dingy flannel and this it was perhaps that turned the scale in Archie's mind between disgust and pity . 
And here , in the meantime , with a trait of human nature that caught at the beholder's breath , he was tending a sore throat . 
Over against him , my Lord Hermiston occupied the bench in the red robes of criminal jurisdiction , his face framed in the white wig . 
Nor was it possible to see his lordship , and acquit him of gusto in the task . 
Duncan had a mistress , scarce less forlorn and greatly older than himself , who came up , whimpering and curtseying , to add the weight of her betrayal . 
My lord gave her the oath in his most roaring voice , and added an intolerant warning . 
Mind what ye say now , Janet , said he . 
I have an e'e upon ye , I'm ill to jest with . 
Presently , after she was tremblingly embarked on her story , And what made ye do this , ye auld runt ? the Court interposed . 
Do ye mean to tell me ye was the panel's mistress ? If you please , ma loard , whined the female . 
Godsake ! ye made a bonny couple , observed his lordship and there was something so formidable and ferocious in his scorn that not even the galleries thought to laugh . 
The summing up contained some jewels . 
These two peetiable creatures seem to have made up thegither , it's not for us to explain why . 
appears to be equally ill set out in mind and boady . 
Neither the panel nor yet the old wife appears to have had so much common sense as even to tell a lie when it was necessary . 
The words were strong in themselves the light and heat and detonation of their delivery , and the savage pleasure of the speaker in his task , made them tingle in the ears . 
When all was over , Archie came forth again into a changed world . 
Had there been the least redeeming greatness in the crime , any obscurity , any dubiety , perhaps he might have understood . 
And the judge had pursued him with a monstrous , relishing gaiety , horrible to be conceived , a trait for nightmares . 
Archie passed by his friends in the High Street with incoherent words and gestures . 
He lay and moaned in the Hunter's Bog , and the heavens were dark above him and the grass of the field an offence . 
This is my father , he said . 
I draw my life from him the flesh upon my bones is his , the bread I am fed with is the wages of these horrors . 
He recalled his mother , and ground his forehead in the earth . 
He met his father he would not look at him , he could not speak to him . 
It seemed there was no living creature but must have been swift to recognise that imminent animosity but the hide of the Justice Clerk remained impenetrable . 
On the named morning he was at the place of execution . 
He saw the fleering rabble , the flinching wretch produced . 
He looked on for a while at a certain parody of devotion , which seemed to strip the wretch of his last claim to manhood . 
Then followed the brutal instant of extinction , and the paltry dangling of the remains like a broken jumping jack . 
He had been prepared for something terrible , not for this tragic meanness . 
Frank Innes dragged him from the spot . 
The two handsome lads followed the same course of study and recreation , and felt a certain mutual attraction , founded mainly on good looks . 
But Archie , who had just defied was it God or Satan ? would not listen to the word of a college companion . 
I will not go with you , he said . 
I do not desire your company , sir I would be alone . 
Here , Weir , man , don't be absurd , said Innes , keeping a tight hold upon his sleeve . 
I will not let you go until I know what you mean to do with yourself it's no use brandishing that staff . 
For indeed at that moment Archie had made a sudden perhaps a warlike movement . 
This has been the most insane affair you know it has . 
You know very well that I'm playing the good Samaritan . 
All I wish is to keep you quiet . 
Honour bright ? asked Frank . 
I am not in the habit of lying , Mr. Innes , retorted Archie . 
I have the honour of wishing you good day . 
You won't forget the Spec . 
O no , I won't forget the Spec . 
But for all that his words were prophetic . 
Archie did not forget the Spec . 
he put in an appearance there at the due time , and , before the evening was over , had dealt a memorable shock to his companions . 
It chanced he was the president of the night . 
He sat in the same room where the Society still meets only the portraits were not there the men who afterwards sat for them were then but beginning their career . 
The same lustre of many tapers shed its light over the meeting the same chair , perhaps , supported him that so many of us have sat in since . 
At times he seemed to forget the business of the evening , but even in these periods he sat with a great air of energy and determination . 
At times he meddled bitterly , and launched with defiance those fines which are the precious and rarely used artillery of the president . 
He little thought , as he did so , how he resembled his father , but his friends remarked upon it , chuckling . 
But the amendment was not seconded the previous question was promptly moved and unanimously voted , and the momentary scandal smuggled by . 
Innes triumphed in the fulfilment of his prophecy . 
Weir , man ! That was an extraordinary raid of yours ! observed this courageous member , taking him confidentially by the arm as they went out . 
I don't think it a raid , said Archie grimly . 
I saw that poor brute hanged this morning , and my gorge rises at it yet . 
Hut tut , returned his companion , and , dropping his arm like something hot , he sought the less tense society of others . 
The last of the faithful or was it only the boldest of the curious ? had fled . 
He watched the black huddle of his fellow students draw off down and up the street , in whispering or boisterous gangs . 
And the isolation of the moment weighed upon him like an omen and an emblem of his destiny in life . 
shuddered into silence , he saw himself on the brink of the red valley of war , and measured the danger and length of it with awe . 
Who had called him to judge his father in these precarious and high questions ? The office was usurped . 
It might have become a stranger in a son there was no blinking it in a son , it was disloyal . 
The cause of this increase lay in a chance encounter with the celebrated Dr . 
Archie stood looking vaguely in the lighted window of a book shop , trying to nerve himself for the approaching ordeal . 
Indeed , when he recalled the awful countenance of my lord , a timid hope sprang up in him that perhaps there would be found no one bold enough to carry tales . 
If this were so , he asked himself , would he begin again ? and he found no answer . 
He started , turned round , and found himself face to face with Dr . 
And why should I come to see you ? he asked , with the defiance of the miserable . 
Because you are looking exceedingly ill , said the doctor , and you very evidently want looking after , my young friend . 
Good folk are scarce , you know and it is not every one that would be quite so much missed as yourself . 
It is not every one that Hermiston would miss . 
And with a nod and a smile , the doctor passed on . 
A moment after , Archie was in pursuit , and had in turn , but more roughly , seized him by the arm . 
A far more stupid man than Dr . 
Gregory might have guessed the truth but ninety nine out of a hundred , even if they had been equally inclined to kindness , would have blundered by some touch of charitable exaggeration . 
The doctor was better inspired . 
He knew the father well in that white face of intelligence and suffering , he divined something of the son and he told , without apology or adornment , the plain truth . 
When you had the measles , Mr. Archibald , you had them gey and ill and I thought you were going to slip between my fingers , he said . 
Well , your father was anxious . 
How did I know it ? says you . 
Simply because I am a trained observer . 
A strange thing to consider ! It was this . 
One day I came to him Hermiston , said I , there's a change . 
A change for the better , said I. And I distinctly heard him take his breath . 
and repeating Distinctly with raised eye brows , he took his departure , and left Archie speechless in the street . 
The anecdote might be called infinitely little , and yet its meaning for Archie was immense . 
I did not know the old man had so much blood in him . 
He was not to be long without a rude awakening . 
It was in the gloaming when he drew near the door step of the lighted house , and was aware of the figure of his father approaching from the opposite side . 
strongly illumined , his mouth set hard . 
There was never a wink of change in his expression without looking to the right or left , he mounted the stair , passed close to Archie , and entered the house . 
Words were needless he knew all perhaps more than all and the hour of judgment was at hand . 
It is possible that , in this sudden revulsion of hope , and before these symptoms of impending danger , Archie might have fled . 
But not even that was left to him . 
All dinner time there reigned over the Judge's table a palpable silence , and as soon as the solids were despatched he rose to his feet . 
M'Killup , tak' the wine into my room , said he and then to his son Archie , you and me has to have a talk . 
It was at this sickening moment that Archie's courage , for the first and last time , entirely deserted him . 
I have an appointment , said he . 
It'll have to be broken , then , said Hermiston , and led the way into his study . 
For a moment Hermiston warmed his hands at the fire , presenting his back to Archie then suddenly disclosed on him the terrors of the Hanging Face . 
What's this I hear of ye ? he asked . 
There was no answer possible to Archie . 
I'll have to tell ye , then , pursued Hermiston . 
Forbye which , it would appear that ye've been airing your opeenions in a Coallege Debatin' Society he paused a moment and then , with extraordinary bitterness , added Ye damned eediot . 
I had meant to tell you , stammered Archie . 
I see you are well informed . 
Muckle obleeged to ye , said his lordship , and took his usual seat . 
And so you disapprove of Caapital Punishment ? he added . 
I am sorry , sir , I do , said Archie . 
I am sorry , too , said his lordship . 
And now , if you please , we shall approach this business with a little more parteecularity . 
No , sir , these were not my words , cried Archie . 
What were yer words , then ? asked the Judge . 
I believe I said , I denounce it as a murder ! said the son . 
I beg your pardon a God defying murder . 
I have no wish to conceal the truth , he added , and looked his father for a moment in the face . 
God , it would only need that of it next ! cried Hermiston . 
There was nothing about your gorge rising , then ? That was afterwards , my lord , as I was leaving the Speculative . 
I said I had been to see the miserable creature hanged , and my gorge rose at it . 
Did ye , though ? said Hermiston . 
And I suppose ye knew who haangit him ? I was present at the trial , I ought to tell you that , I ought to explain . 
I ask your pardon beforehand for any expression that may seem undutiful . 
The position in which I stand is wretched , said the unhappy hero , now fairly face to face with the business he had chosen . 
I have been reading some of your cases . 
I was present while Jopp was tried . 
It was a hideous business . 
You're a young gentleman that doesna approve of Caapital Punishment , said Hermiston . 
Weel , I'm an auld man that does . 
I'm a man that gets through with my day's business , and let that suffice . 
The ring of sarcasm had died out of his voice as he went on the plain words became invested with some of the dignity of the Justice seat . 
It would be telling you if you could say as much , the speaker resumed . 
Ye've been reading some of my cases , ye say . 
But it was not for the law in them , it was to spy out your faither's nakedness , a fine employment in a son . 
You're splairging you're running at lairge in life like a wild nowt . 
It's impossible you should think any longer of coming to the Bar . 
You're not fit for it no splairger is . 
There is a kind of a decency to be observit . 
Then comes the next of it what am I to do with ye next ? Ye'll have to find some kind of a trade , for I'll never support ye in idleset . 
What do ye fancy ye'll be fit for ? The pulpit ? Na , they could never get diveenity into that bloackhead . 
Him that the law of man whammles is no likely to do muckle better by the law of God . 
What would ye make of hell ? Wouldna your gorge rise at that ? Na , there's no room for splairgers under the fower quarters of John Calvin . 
What else is there ? Speak up . 
Have ye got nothing of your own ? Father , let me go to the Peninsula , said Archie . 
That's all I'm fit for to fight . 
All ? quo' he ! returned the Judge . 
And it would be enough too , if I thought it . 
But I'll never trust ye so near the French , you that's so Frenchi feed . 
You do me injustice there , sir , said Archie . 
I am loyal I will not boast but any interest I may have ever felt in the French Have ye been so loyal to me ? interrupted his father . 
I think not , continued Hermiston . 
And I would send no man to be a servant to the King , God bless him ! that has proved such a shauchling son to his own faither . 
But there's no splairging possible in a camp and if ye were to go to it , you would find out for yourself whether Lord Well'n'ton approves of caapital punishment or not . 
You a sodger ! he cried , with a sudden burst of scorn . 
He had a strong impression , besides , of the essential valour of the old gentleman before him , how conveyed it would be hard to say . 
Well , have ye no other proposeetion ? said my lord again . 
You have taken this so calmly , sir , that I cannot but stand ashamed , began Archie . 
I'm nearer voamiting , though , than you would fancy , said my lord . 
The blood rose to Archie's brow . 
I beg your pardon , I should have said that you had accepted my affront . 
I should have said that I admired your magnanimity with this offender , Archie concluded with a gulp . 
I have no other son , ye see , said Hermiston . 
The way it is , I have just to grin and bear . 
But one thing is to be clearly understood . 
Lord Hermiston was coarse and cruel and yet the son was aware of a bloomless nobility , an ungracious abnegation of the man's self in the man's office . 
I place myself in your hands without reserve , he said . 
That's the first sensible word I've had of ye the night , said Hermiston . 
Weel , by my way of it and my way is the best there's just the one thing it's possible that ye might be with decency , and that's a laird . 
Ye'll be out of hairm's way at the least of it . 
If ye have to rowt , ye can rowt amang the kye and the maist feck of the caapital punishmeiit ye're like to come across'll be guddling trouts . 
Now , I'm for no idle lairdies every man has to work , if it's only at peddling ballants to work , or to be wheeped , or to be haangit . 
Is that understood ? I will do my best , said Archie . 
Well , then , I'll send Kirstie word the morn , and ye can go yourself the day after , said Hermiston . 
And just try to be less of an eediot ! he concluded with a freezing smile , and turned immediately to the papers on his desk . 
Archie had suffered much in the last days , he had suffered again that evening his face was white and drawn , his eyes wild and dark . 
But Lord Glenalmond greeted him without the least mark of surprise or curiosity . 
Come in , come in , said he . 
Come in and take a seat . 
No supper , said Archie . 
It is impossible that I should eat . 
Not impossible , said the tall old man , laying his hand upon his shoulder , and , if you will believe me , necessary . 
You know what brings me ? said Archie , as soon as the servant had left the room . 
I have a guess , I have a guess , replied Glenalmond . 
We will talk of it presently when Carstairs has come and gone , and you have had a piece of my good Cheddar cheese and a pull at the porter tankard not before . 
It is impossible I should eat repeated Archie . 
Tut , tut ! said Lord Glenalmond . 
You have eaten nothing to day , and I venture to add , nothing yesterday . 
I see you must know all , said Archie . 
Where did you hear it ? In the mart of scandal , in the Parliament House , said Glenalmond . 
It runs riot below among the bar and the public , but it sifts up to us upon the bench , and rumour has some of her voices even in the divisions . 
But so soon as the servant was gone , he broke forth again at once . 
That shrimp ! cried Archie . 
As you say , that shrimp , returned my lord although really it is scarce a fitting mode of expression for one of the senators of the College of Justice . 
No one could have guessed its nature from your father from Glenkindie , yes , his malice sparked out of him a little grossly . 
But your father , no . 
The next moment he pounced upon Creech . 
Mr. Creech , says he , I'll take a look of that sasine , and for thirty minutes after , said Glenalmond , with a smile , Messrs . 
were fighting a pretty up hill battle , which resulted , I need hardly add , in their total rout . 
No , I doubt if ever I heard Hermiston better inspired . 
He was literally rejoicing IN APICIBUS JURIS . 
Archie was able to endure no longer . 
He thrust his plate away and interrupted the deliberate and insignificant stream of talk . 
Here , he said , I have made a fool of myself , if I have not made something worse . 
Do you judge between us judge between a father and a son . 
I can speak to you it is not like . 
I will tell you what I feel and what I mean to do and you shall be the judge , he repeated . 
I decline jurisdiction , said Glenalmond , with extreme seriousness . 
Let an old man say it , for once , and not need to blush I love you like a son . 
There came a sudden sharp sound in Archie's throat . 
Ay , he cried , and there it is ! Love ! Like a son ! And how do you think I love my father ? Quietly , quietly , says my lord . 
I will be very quiet , replied Archie . 
And I will be baldly frank . 
I do not love my father I wonder sometimes if I do not hate him . 
There's my shame perhaps my sin at least , and in the sight of God , not my fault . 
How was I to love him ? He has never spoken to me , never smiled upon me I do not think he ever touched me . 
You know the way he talks ? You do not talk so , yet you can sit and hear him without shuddering , and I cannot . 
My soul is sick when he begins with it I could smite him in the mouth . 
I was at the trial of this Jopp . 
Well , who am I ? A boy , who have never been tried , have never done anything except this twopenny impotent folly with my father . 
Well , and what have I done ? I see it now . 
My poor , dear boy ! observed Glenalmond . 
may be the means of inducing you to view the matter more calmly . 
First of all , I cannot acquit you of a good deal of what is called intolerance . 
appears to be entirely an affair of taste . 
Your father , I scarcely like to remind you , since it is so trite a commonplace , is older than yourself . 
At least , he is MAJOR and SUI JURIS , and may please himself in the matter of his conversation . 
He beamed on Archie , but no smile could be elicited . 
And now , proceeded the Judge , for Archibald on Capital Punishment . 
Possibly , in the past also , I may have a little dipped myself in the same heresy . 
My third client , or possibly my fourth , was the means of a return in my opinions . 
I was then boiling against the man with even a more tropical temperature than I had been boiling for him . 
But I said to myself No , you have taken up his case and because you have changed your mind it must not be suffered to let drop . 
All that rich tide of eloquence that you prepared last night with so much enthusiasm is out of place , and yet you must not desert him , you must say something . 
So I said something , and I got him off . 
But an experience of that kind is formative . 
A man must not bring his passions to the bar or to the bench , he added . 
The story had slightly rekindled Archie's interest . 
I could never deny , he began I mean I can conceive that some men would be better dead . 
Perhaps not a pleasant spectacle , said Glenalmond . 
And yet , do you know , I think somehow a great one . 
I've had a long talk with him to night , said Archie . 
I was supposing so , said Glenalmond . 
And he struck me I cannot deny that he struck me as something very big , pursued the son . 
Yes , he is big . 
He never spoke about himself only about me . 
I suppose I admired him . 
The dreadful part Suppose we did not talk about that , interrupted Glenalmond . 
How do you mean ? asked Archie . 
FAIR judges , mean , replied Glenalmond . 
You applied that , as I understood , to capital cases only . 
No , we do not talk of it , said Glenalmond . 
But I think we do it . 
Your father , for instance . 
You think I have punished him ? cried Archie . 
Lord Glenalmond bowed his head . 
I think I have , said Archie . 
And the worst is , I think he feels it ! How much , who can tell , with such a being ? But I think he does . 
And I am sure of it , said Glenalmond . 
Has he spoken to you , then ? cried Archie . 
O no , replied the judge . 
I tell you honestly , said Archie , I want to make it up to him . 
I will go , I have already pledged myself to go to Hermiston . 
Is that well ? It is well , said my lord . 
As far as it goes , said Archie . 
It is enough as regards myself , it is to lay down enough of my conceit . 
Only by obedience , punctual , prompt , and scrupulous . 
And I promise that he shall have it , answered Archie . 
I offer you my hand in pledge of it . 
And I take your hand as a solemnity , replied the judge . 
God bless you , my dear , and enable you to keep your promise . 
God guide you in the true way , and spare your days , and preserve to you your honest heart . 
At that , he kissed the young man upon the forehead in a gracious , distant , antiquated way and instantly launched , with a marked change of voice , into another subject . 
And now , let us replenish the tankard and I believe if you will try my Cheddar again , you would find you had a better appetite . 
The Court has spoken , and the case is dismissed . 
No , there is one thing I must say , cried Archie . 
I must say it in justice to himself . 
I know I believe faithfully , slavishly , after our talk he will never ask me anything unjust . 
I am proud to feel it , that we have that much in common , I am proud to say it to you . 
The Judge , with shining eyes , raised his tankard . 
And I think perhaps that we might permit ourselves a toast , said he . 
rubbed me the wrong way , but whom I have never ceased to respect and , I may add , to be not a little afraid of . 
Shall I give you his name ? The Lord Justice Clerk , Lord Hermiston , said Archie , almost with gaiety and the pair drank the toast deeply . 
It was not precisely easy to re establish , after these emotional passages , the natural flow of conversation . 
I am not aware that Glenkindie was ever a beautiful object , being short , and gross bodied , and with an expression of sensuality comparable to a bear's . 
At that moment , coming in hissing from many potations , with a flushed countenance and blurred eyes , he was strikingly contrasted with the tall , pale , kingly figure of Glenalmond . 
And then that too passed away and he sat quiet , biding his opportunity . 
The tipsy senator plunged at once into an explanation with Glenalmond . 
Archie saw the cod's mouth and the blunt lips of Glenkindie gape at him for a moment , and the recognition twinkle in his eyes . 
Who's this ? said he . 
Ah , but I don't know about that . 
Confession ? It'll be judeecial , my young friend , cried the jocular Glenkindie . 
And I'm afraid to listen to ye . 
But Archie continued as though he had not spoken . 
I have played , both yesterday and to day , a part for which I can only offer the excuse of youth . 
This is the extent of what I have done , and in case you hear more alleged against me , I protest my innocence . 
A great , rooty sweetness of bogs was in the air , and at all seasons an infinite melancholy piping of hill birds . 
Solitary as the place was , Archie did not want neighbours . 
Harum scarum , clodpole young lairds of the neighbourhood paid him the compliment of a visit . 
Young Hay of Romanes rode down to call , on his crop eared pony young Pringle of Drumanno came up on his bony grey . 
lurched , uttered a senseless view holloa , and vanished out of the small circle of illumination like a wraith . 
He dined at Driffel , supped at Windielaws . 
Yet the same fate attended him here as in Edinburgh . 
It may be questioned , and I think it should be doubted . 
KIRSTIE Kirstie was now over fifty , and might have sat to a sculptor . 
The tender ambitions that she had received at birth had been , by time and disappointment , diverted into a certain barren zeal of industry and fury of interference . 
She carried her thwarted ardours into housework , she washed floors with her empty heart . 
If she could not win the love of one with love , she must dominate all by her temper . 
Hasty , wordy , and wrathful , she had a drawn quarrel with most of her neighbours , and with the others not much more than armed neutrality . 
To Kirstie , thus situate and in the Indian summer of her heart , which was slow to submit to age , the gods sent this equivocal good thing of Archie's presence . 
He was new , and therefore immediately aroused her curiosity he was reticent , and kept it awake . 
And lastly he was dark and she fair , and he was male and she female , the everlasting fountains of interest . 
Her feeling partook of the loyalty of a clanswoman , the hero worship of a maiden aunt , and the idolatry due to a god . 
No matter what he had asked of her , ridiculous or tragic , she would have done it and joyed to do it . 
Her passion , for it was nothing less , entirely filled her . 
with a clap on the shoulder . 
I have said her heart leaped it is the accepted phrase . 
This perpetual hunger and thirst of his presence kept her all day on the alert . 
When he went forth at morning , she would stand and follow him with admiring looks . 
It was no wonder that Archie was fond of company after his solitary days and Kirstie , upon her side , exerted all the arts of her vigorous nature to ensnare his attention . 
Once he had heard her tongue wag , she made sure of the result . 
No more characteristic instance could be found than in the family of Kirstie Elliott . 
One after another closed his obscure adventures in mid air , triced up to the arm of the royal gibbet or the Baron's dule tree . 
For the rusty blunderbuss of Scots criminal justice , which usually hurt nobody but jurymen , became a weapon of precision for the Nicksons , the Ellwalds , and the Crozers . 
The exhilaration of their exploits seemed to haunt the memories of their descendants alone , and the shame to be forgotten . 
The power of ancestry on the character is not limited to the inheritance of cells . 
will feel a quickening emulation of their deeds . 
The men of the Elliotts were proud , lawless , violent as of right , cherishing and prolonging a tradition . 
In like manner with the women . 
Her father Gilbert had been deeply pious , a savage disciplinarian in the antique style , and withal a notorious smuggler . 
I mind when I was a bairn getting mony a skelp and being shoo'd to bed like pou'try , she would say . 
That would be when the lads and their bit kegs were on the road . 
But there was nae ungodly talk permitted at Cauldstaneslap . 
It was gentle blood she had , Mr. Archie , for it was your ain . 
The country side gaed gyte about her and her gowden hair . 
Mines is no to be mentioned wi' it , and there's few weemen has mair hair than what I have , or yet a bonnier colour . 
I'll show it ye some of thir days if ye're good . 
It seemed it was a tradition in the family to wind up with a belated girl . 
In , at the age of sixty , Gilbert met an end that might be called heroic . 
It was known on this occasion that he had a good bit of money to bring home the word had gone round loosely . 
But it is ill to catch an Elliott . 
The horse fell dead at the yard gate , the laird won the length of the house and fell there on the threshold . 
To the son that raised him he gave the bag of money . 
Raising himself and pointing with an imperious finger into the black night from which he had come , he uttered the single command , Brocken Dykes , and fainted . 
He had never been loved , but he had been feared in honour . 
At that sight , at that word , gasped out at them from a toothless and bleeding mouth , the old Elliott spirit awoke with a shout in the four sons . 
Hell shall have her ain again this nicht ! he raired , and rode forth upon his earrand . 
It was three miles to Broken Dykes , down hill , and a sore road . 
Kirstie has seen men from Edinburgh dismounting there in plain day to lead their horses . 
But the four brothers rode it as if Auld Hornie were behind and Heaven in front . 
Come to the ford , and there was Dickieson . 
By all tales , he was not dead , but breathed and reared upon his elbow , and cried out to them for help . 
It was at a graceless face that he asked mercy . 
Beyond that , Dandie must dismount with the lantern to be their guide he was the youngest son , scarce twenty at the time . 
And a' nicht Dandie had his nose to the grund like a tyke , and the ithers followed and spak' naething , neither black nor white . 
There was nae noise to be heard , but just the sough of the swalled burns , and Hob , the dour yin , risping his teeth as he gaed . 
By eight o'clock they had word of them a shepherd had seen four men uncoly mishandled go by in the last hour . 
That's yin a piece , says Clem , and swung his cudgel . 
Five o' them ! says Hob . 
Four sour faces looked on the reinforcement . 
The Deil's broughten you ! said Clem , and they rode thenceforward in the rear of the party with hanging heads . 
, and the doom which it was currently supposed they had intended for the others , struck and stirred popular imagination . 
According to Kirstie , they had a' bees in their bonnets but Hob . 
Hob the laird was , indeed , essentially a decent man . 
An elder of the Kirk , nobody had heard an oath upon his lips , save perhaps thrice or so at the sheep washing , since the chase of his father's murderers . 
The figure he had shown on that eventful night disappeared as if swallowed by a trap . 
He was married , and , by reason of the effulgence of that legendary night , was adored by his wife . 
But in the house , if faither was in , they were quiet as mice . 
It was a current remark that the Elliotts were guid and bad , like sanguishes and certainly there was a curious distinction , the men of business coming alternately with the dreamers . 
The second brother , Gib , was a weaver by trade , had gone out early into the world to Edinburgh , and come home again with his wings singed . 
It was whispered that my lord , in his great scorn for the movement , and prevailed upon a little by a sense of neighbourliness , had given Gib a hint . 
To the profane , they were known as Gib's Deils . 
on the streets of Crossmichael one Fair day . 
It was known that every Sunday they prayed for a blessing on the arms of Bonaparte . 
For the rest , Gilbert had set up his loom in an outhouse at Cauldstaneslap , where he laboured assiduously six days of the week . 
The gaunt weaver was dry nurse at Cauldstaneslap , and the bairns loved him dearly . 
Except when he was carrying an infant in his arms , he was rarely seen to smile as , indeed , there were few smilers in that family . 
If nobody called him in to dinner , he stayed out . 
Mrs. Hob , a hard , unsympathetic woman , once tried the experiment . 
He went without food all day , but at dusk , as the light began to fail him , he came into the house of his own accord , looking puzzled . 
I've had a great gale of prayer upon my speerit , said he . 
I canna mind sae muckle's what I had for denner . 
The creed of God's Remnant was justified in the life of its founder . 
And yet I dinna ken , said Kirstie . 
The third brother had his name on a door plate , no less , in the city of Glasgow , Mr. Clement Elliott , as long as your arm . 
In boyhood , from his addiction to strange devices of sticks and string , he had been counted the most eccentric of the family . 
But that was all by now and he was a partner of his firm , and looked to die a bailie . 
Though an eminently solid man at bottom , after the pattern of Hob , he had contracted a certain Glasgow briskness and APLOMB which set him off . 
All the other Elliotts were as lean as a rake , but Clement was laying on fat , and he panted sorely when he must get into his boots . 
Dand said , chuckling Ay , Clem has the elements of a corporation . 
A provost and corporation , returned Clem . 
And his readiness was much admired . 
The fourth brother , Dand , was a shepherd to his trade , and by starts , when he could bring his mind to it , excelled in the business . 
Nobody could train a dog like Dandie nobody , through the peril of great storms in the winter time , could do more gallantly . 
But if his dexterity were exquisite , his diligence was but fitful and he served his brother for bed and board , and a trifle of pocket money when he asked for it . 
He loved money well enough , knew very well how to spend it , and could make a shrewd bargain when he liked . 
But he preferred a vague knowledge that he was well to windward to any counted coins in the pocket he felt himself richer so . 
Hob would expostulate I'm an amature herd . 
Dand would reply , I'll keep your sheep to you when I'm so minded , but I'll keep my liberty too . 
Thir's no man can coandescend on what I'm worth . 
Clein would expound to him the miraculous results of compound interest , and recommend investments . 
Either I'm a poet or else I'm nothing . 
Clem would remind him of old age . 
I'll die young , like , Robbie Burns , he would say stoutly . 
No question but he had a certain accomplishment in minor verse . 
The Ettrick Shepherd was his sworn crony they would meet , drink to excess , roar out their lyrics in each other's faces , and quarrel and make it up again till bedtime . 
He had figured on the stool of repentance , for once fulfilling to the letter the tradition of his hero and model . 
Even the extremes admired each other . 
Indulgence followed hard on the heels of admiration . 
The Provost , for whom Clem by exception entertained a measure of respect , he would liken to Hob . 
He minds me o' the laird there , he would say . 
He has some of Hob's grand , whunstane sense , and the same way with him of steiking his mouth when he's no very pleased . 
And Hob , all unconscious , would draw down his upper lip and produce , as if for comparison , the formidable grimace referred to . 
The unsatisfactory incumbent of St . 
Enoch's Kirk was thus briefly dismissed If he had but twa fingers o' Gib's , he would waken them up . 
And Gib , honest man ! would look down and secretly smile . 
Clem was a spy whom they had sent out into the world of men . 
The excuse of their folly is in two words scarce the breadth of a hair divided them from the peasantry . 
The measure of their sense is this that these symposia of rustic vanity were kept entirely within the family , like some secret ancestral practice . 
To the world their serious faces were never deformed by the suspicion of any simper of self contentment . 
They hae a guid pride o' themsel's ! was the word in the country side . 
Lastly , in a Border story , there should be added their two names . 
Roy ne puis , prince ne daigne he was the laird of Cauldstaneslap say fifty acres IPSISSIMUS . 
It will be understood that not all this information was communicated by the aunt , who had too much of the family failing herself to appreciate it thoroughly in others . 
But as time went on , Archie began to observe an omission in the family chronicle . 
Is there not a girl too ? he asked . 
But what is your niece like ? said Archie at the next opportunity . 
Her ? As black's your hat ! But I dinna suppose she would maybe be what you would ca' ILL LOOKED a'thegither . 
How comes it that I never see her in church ? said Archie . 
'Deed , and I believe she's in Glesgie with Clem and his wife . 
A heap good she's like to get of it ! I dinna say for men folk , but where weemen folk are born , there let them bide . 
Glory to God , I was never far'er from here than Crossmichael . 
their vices like a thing creditable to herself , there should appear not the least sign of cordiality between the house of Hermiston and that of Cauldstaneslap . 
in a pattern of radiant dyes , she would sometimes overtake her relatives preceding her more leisurely in the same direction . 
A braw day to ye , Mistress Elliott , said she , and hostility and gentility were nicely mingled in her tones . 
There appeared upon the face of this attitude in the family the consequences of some dreadful feud . 
Kirstie , said Archie one day , what is this you have against your family ? I dinna complean , said Kirstie , with a flush . 
I see you do not not even good day to your own nephew , said he . 
I hae naething to be ashamed of , said she . 
I can say the Lord's prayer with a good grace . 
If Hob was ill , or in preeson or poverty , I would see to him blithely . 
But for curtchying and complimenting and colloguing , thank ye kindly ! Archie had a bit of a smile he leaned back in his chair . 
Do none of them ever come here to see you ? he inquired . 
Mr. Archie , said she , I hope that I ken my place better . 
I have nae patience wi' black folk . 
Hermiston pew was a little square box , dwarfish in proportion with the kirk itself , and enclosing a table not much bigger than a footstool . 
Thence he might command an undisturbed view of that congregation of solid plaided men , strapping wives and daughters , oppressed children , and uneasy sheep dogs . 
On this particular Sunday , there was no doubt but that the spring had come at last . 
It was warm , with a latent shiver in the air that made the warmth only the more welcome . 
The shallows of the stream glittered and tinkled among bunches of primrose . 
Vagrant scents of the earth arrested Archie by the way with moments of ethereal intoxication . 
His heart perhaps beat in time to some vast indwelling rhythm of the universe . 
By the time he came to a corner of the valley and could see the kirk , he had so lingered by the way that the first psalm was finishing . 
A tuft of primroses was blooming hard by the leg of an old black table tombstone , and he stopped to contemplate the random apologue . 
The voice of the aged Torrance within rose in an ecstasy . 
He could not follow the prayer , not even the heads of it . 
And he felt for old Torrance of the many supplications , of the few days a pity that was near to tears . 
Dandie's sister , sitting by the side of Clem in her new Glasgow finery , chose that moment to observe the young laird . 
Aware of the stir of his entrance , the little formalist had kept her eyes fastened and her face prettily composed during the prayer . 
It was not hypocrisy , there was no one further from a hypocrite . 
That was the game of female life , and she played it frankly . 
In reason he must admire her clothes , and it was possible that he should think her pretty . 
kept her in something of a flutter till the word Amen . 
Even then , she was far too well bred to gratify her curiosity with any impatience . 
For a moment , they were riveted . 
Next she had plucked her gaze home again like a tame bird who should have meditated flight . 
I wonder , will I have met my fate ? she thought , and her heart swelled . 
Though he had never before set eyes on him , Archie had no difficulty in identifying him , and no hesitation in pronouncing him vulgar , the worst of the family . 
Clem was leaning lazily forward when Archie first saw him . 
Presently he leaned nonchalantly back and that deadly instrument , the maiden , was suddenly unmasked in profile . 
, certain artful Glasgow mantua makers , and her own inherent taste , had arrayed her to great advantage . 
Her accoutrement was , indeed , a cause of heart burning , and almost of scandal , in that infinitesimal kirk company . 
Mrs. Hob had said her say at Cauldstaneslap . 
Daft like ! she had pronounced it . 
Wear them the day , hizzie but it's no a thing to make a practice o' . 
Here , too , surely in a very enviable position , trembled the nosegay of primroses . 
About her face clustered a disorder of dark ringlets , a little garland of yellow French roses surmounted her brow , and the whole was crowned by a village hat of chipped straw . 
Archie was attracted by the bright thing like a child . 
He looked at her again and yet again , and their looks crossed . 
The lip was lifted from her little teeth . 
He saw the red blood work vividly under her tawny skin . 
Her eye , which was great as a stag's , struck and held his gaze . 
Christina felt the shock of their encountering glances , and seemed to rise , clothed in smiles , into a region of the vague and bright . 
But the gratification was not more exquisite than it was brief . 
She looked away abruptly , and immediately began to blame herself for that abruptness . 
She knew what she should have done , too late turned slowly with her nose in the air . 
In the cleft of her little breasts the fiery eye of the topaz and the pale florets of primrose fascinated him . 
He saw the breasts heave , and the flowers shake with the heaving , and marvelled what should so much discompose the girl . 
Like a creature tracked , run down , surrounded , she sought in a dozen ways to give herself a countenance . 
She used her handkerchief it was a really fine one then she desisted in a panic He would only think I was too warm . 
She took to reading in the metrical psalms , and then remembered it was sermon time . 
Last she put a sugar bool in her mouth , and the next moment repented of the step . 
At this signal of distress Archie awoke to a sense of his ill behaviour . 
He had marked the tokens of her shame , of her increasing indignation , and he was such a fool that he had not understood them . 
Christina was greatly relieved at first . 
It seemed to her that she was clothed again . 
She looked back on what had passed . 
All would have been right if she had not blushed , a silly fool ! There was nothing to blush at , if she HAD taken a sugar bool . 
Mrs. MacTaggart , the elder's wife in St . 
Enoch's , took them often . 
Well , it was a blessing he had found something else to look at ! And presently she began to have other thoughts . 
It was necessary , she fancied , that she should put herself right by a repetition of the incident , better managed . 
If the wish was father to the thought , she did not know or she would not recognise it . 
And at the memory of the blush , she blushed again , and became one general blush burning from head to foot . 
And still the one idea was becoming more and more potent with her , that in common prudence she must look again before the service ended . 
Something of the same sort was going forward in the mind of Archie , as he struggled with the load of penitence . 
They met , they lingered together for the least fraction of time , and that was enough . 
A charge as of electricity passed through Christina , and behold ! the leaf of her psalm book was torn across . 
The laird took off his hat and bowed to her with grace and respect . 
A part of the way she had the company of some neighbour girls and a loutish young man never had they seemed so insipid , never had she made herself so disagreeable . 
Near to the summit she heard steps behind her , a man's steps , light and very rapid . 
She knew the foot at once and walked the faster . 
If it's me he's wanting , he can run for it , she thought , smiling . 
Archie overtook her like a man whose mind was made up . 
Miss Kirstie , he began . 
Miss Christina , if you please , Mr. Weir , she interrupted . 
I canna bear the contraction . 
You forget it has a friendly sound for me . 
Your aunt is an old friend of mine , and a very good one . 
I hope we shall see much of you at Hermiston ? My aunt and my sister in law doesna agree very well . 
Not that I have much ado with it . 
But still when I'm stopping in the house , if I was to be visiting my aunt , it would not look considerate like . 
I am sorry , said Archie . 
I thank you kindly , Mr. Weir , she said . 
I whiles think myself it's a great peety . 
Ah , I am sure your voice would always be for peace ! he cried . 
I wouldna be too sure of that , she said . 
I have my days like other folk , I suppose . 
Do you know , in our old kirk , among our good old grey dames , you made an effect like sunshine . 
Ah , but that would be my Glasgow clothes ! I did not think I was so much under the influence of pretty frocks . 
She smiled with a half look at him . 
There's more than you ! she said . 
But you see I'm only Cinderella . 
I'll have to put all these things by in my trunk next Sunday I'll be as grey as the rest . 
They're Glasgow clothes , you see , and it would never do to make a practice of it . 
It would seem terrible conspicuous . 
By that they were come to the place where their ways severed . 
It was in these circumstances that they turned to say farewell , and deliberately exchanged a glance as they shook hands . 
He was looking after ! She unloaded her bosom of a prodigious sigh that was all pleasure , and betook herself to run . 
You're shurely fey , lass ! quoth Dandie . 
Think shame to yersel' , miss ! said the strident Mrs. Hob . 
Is this the gait to guide yersel' on the way hame frae kirk ? You're shiirely no sponsible the day ! And anyway I would mind my guid claes . 
Hoot ! said Christina , and went on before them head in air , treading the rough track with the tread of a wild doe . 
She was in love with herself , her destiny , the air of the hills , the benediction of the sun . 
All the way home , she continued under the intoxication of these sky scraping spirits . 
Only the moment after a memory of his eyes in church embarrassed her . 
reproved the whole of them for their levity . 
Still humming , Christina divested herself of her finery , and put her treasures one by one in her great green trunk . 
As she now took it in hand the book fell open where the leaf was torn , and she stood and gazed upon that evidence of her bygone discomposure . 
There returned again the vision of the two brown eyes staring at her , intent and bright , out of that dark corner of the kirk . 
The whole appearance and attitude , the smile , the suggested gesture of young Hermiston came before her in a flash at the sight of the torn page . 
I was surely fey ! she said , echoing the words of Dandie , and at the suggested doom her high spirits deserted her . 
The pleasure was never realised . 
Archie's image , on the other hand , when it presented itself was never welcomed far less welcomed with any ardour , and it was exposed at times to merciless criticism . 
He was described as looking like a stork , staring like a caulf , a face like a ghaist's . 
Do you call that manners ? she said or , I soon put him in his place . 
MISS CHRISTINA , IF YOU PLEASE , MR . 
WEIR ! says I , and just flyped up my skirt tails . 
Had it been a doctor of psychology , he might have been pardoned for divining in the girl a passion of childish vanity , self love IN EXCELSIS , and no more . 
It is to be understood that I have been painting chaos and describing the inarticulate . 
Every lineament that appears is too precise , almost every word used too strong . 
In the absence of the mesmerist's eye , we are told nowadays that the head of a bright nail may fill his place , if it be steadfastly regarded . 
Just outside the door , Dandie was sitting with a book in his hand , not reading , only honouring the Sabbath by a sacred vacancy of mind . 
She came near him and stood still . 
I'm for off up the muirs , Dandie , she said . 
There was something unusually soft in her tones that made him look up . 
She was pale , her eyes dark and bright no trace remained of the levity of the morning . 
Ay , lass ? Ye'll have yer ups and downs like me , I'm thinkin' , he observed . 
What for do ye say that ? she asked . 
O , for naething , says Dand . 
Only I think ye're mair like me than the lave of them . 
Ye've mair of the poetic temper , tho' Guid kens little enough of the poetic taalent . 
It's an ill gift at the best . 
At denner you were all sunshine and flowers and laughter , and now you're like the star of evening on a lake . 
She drank in this hackneyed compliment like wine , and it glowed in her veins . 
But I'm saying , Dand she came nearer him I'm for the muirs . 
I must have a braith of air . 
If Clem was to be speiring for me , try and quaiet him , will ye no ? What way ? said Dandie . 
I ken but the ae way , and that's leein' . 
I'll say ye had a sair heid , if ye like . 
But I havena , she objected . 
I daursay no , he returned . 
I said I would say ye had and if ye like to nay say me when ye come back , it'll no mateerially maitter , for my chara'ter's clean gane a'ready past reca' . 
O , Dand , are ye a lecar ? she asked , lingering . 
Folks say sae , replied the bard . 
Wha says sae ? she pursued . 
Them that should ken the best , he responded . 
The lassies , for ane . 
But , Dand , you would never lee to me ? she asked . 
I'll leave that for your pairt of it , ye girzie , said he . 
Ye'll lee to me fast eneuch , when ye hae gotten a jo . 
I'm tellin' ye and it's true when you have a jo , Miss Kirstie , it'll be for guid and ill . 
Will ye no gie's a kiss , Dand ? she said . 
I aye likit ye fine . 
He kissed her and considered her a moment he found something strange in her . 
But he was a libertine through and through , nourished equal contempt and suspicion of all womankind , and paid his way among them habitually with idle compliments . 
Gae wa' wi' ye ! said he . 
Women , when they did not absorb , were only children to be shoo'd away . 
Merely in his character of connoisseur , however , Dandie glanced carelessly after his sister as she crossed the meadow . 
The brat's no that bad ! he thought with surprise , for though he had just been paying her compliments , he had not really looked at her . 
My denty May , either your heid's fair turned , or there's some ongoings ! he observed , and dismissed the subject . 
She went slowly at first , but ever straighter and faster for the Cauldstaneslap , a pass among the hills to which the farm owed its name . 
The Slap opened like a doorway between two rounded hillocks and through this ran the short cut to Hermiston . 
There was no view from here . 
So , when she had once passed the Slap , Kirstie was received into seclusion . 
She looked back a last time at the farm . 
It still lay deserted except for the figure of Dandie , who was now seen to be scribbling in his lap , the hour of expected inspiration having come to him at last . 
Here she sat down and waited , and looked for a long time at these far away bright panes of glass . 
It amused her to have so extended a view , she thought . 
It amused her to see the house of Hermiston to see folk and there was an indistinguishable human unit , perhaps the gardener , visibly sauntering on the gravel paths . 
She watched him at first with a total suspension of thought . 
She held her thought as a person holds his breathing . 
Then she consented to recognise him . 
He'll no be coming here , he canna be it's no possible . 
And there began to grow upon her a subdued choking suspense . 
The difference in their social station was trenchant propriety , prudence , all that she had ever learned , all that she knew , bade her flee . 
But on the other hand the cup of life now offered to her was too enchanting . 
For one moment , she saw the question clearly , and definitely made her choice . 
She stood up and showed herself an instant in the gap relieved upon the sky line and the next , fled trembling and sat down glowing with excitement on the Weaver's stone . 
She shut her eyes , seeking , praying for composure . 
Her hand shook in her lap , and her mind was full of incongruous and futile speeches . 
What was there to make a work about ? She could take care of herself , she supposed ! There was no harm in seeing the laird . 
It was the best thing that could happen . 
She would mark a proper distance to him once and for all . 
Gradually the wheels of her nature ceased to go round so madly , and she sat in passive expectation , a quiet , solitary figure in the midst of the grey moss . 
I have said she was no hypocrite , but here I am at fault . 
She never admitted to herself that she had come up the hill to look for Archie . 
And perhaps after all she did not know , perhaps came as a stone falls . 
For the steps of love in the young , and especially in girls , are instinctive and unconscious . 
In the meantime Archie was drawing rapidly near , and he at least was consciously seeking her neighbourhood . 
He had no hope to find her he took the off chance without expectation of result and to relieve his uneasiness . 
Those things that still smacked of winter were all rusty about her , and those things that already relished of the spring had put forth the tender and lively colours of the season . 
Even in the unchanging face of the death stone , changes were to be remarked and in the channeled lettering , the moss began to renew itself in jewels of green . 
Young Hermiston was struck with a certain chill . 
He was reminded that he now dealt in serious matters of life and death . 
made him a more dangerous companion when his heart should be really stirred . 
His throat was dry as he came near but the appealing sweetness of her smile stood between them like a guardian angel . 
For she turned to him and smiled , though without rising . 
the difference between rising to meet the laird , and remaining seated to receive the expected admirer . 
Are ye stepping west , Hermiston ? said she , giving him his territorial name after the fashion of the country side . 
I was , said he , a little hoarsely , but I think I will be about the end of my stroll now . 
Are you like me , Miss Christina ? The house would not hold me . 
I came here seeking air . 
He took his seat at the other end of the tombstone and studied her , wondering what was she . 
There was infinite import in the question alike for her and him . 
I couldna bear the roof either . 
It's a habit of mine to come up here about the gloaming when it's quaiet and caller . 
It was a habit of my mother's also , he said gravely . 
The recollection half startled him as he expressed it . 
I have scarce been here since . 
It's peaceful , he said , with a long breath . 
It's no like Glasgow , she replied . 
I think I will remember it years and years until I come to die . 
On days like this I do not know if you feel as I do but everything appears so brief , and fragile , and exquisite , that I am afraid to touch life . 
She , on her part , her means well in hand , watched , womanlike , for any opportunity to shine , to abound in his humour , whatever that might be . 
Have you mind of Dand's song ? she answered . 
I think he'll have been trying to say what you have been thinking . 
No , I never heard it , he said . 
Repeat it to me , can you ? It's nothing wanting the tune , said Kirstie . 
Then sing it me , said he . 
No that I'm thinking that really , she said . 
By my way of thinking , it's just as serious as a psalm . 
Will I sooth it to ye , then ? If you please , said he , and , drawing near to her on the tombstone , prepared to listen . 
She sat up as if to sing . 
I'll only can sooth it to ye , she explained . 
I wouldna like to sing out loud on the Sabbath . 
I think the birds would carry news of it to Gilbert , and she smiled . 
It's about the Elliotts , she continued , and I think there's few bonnier bits in the book poets , though Dand has never got printed yet . 
She was a human being tuned to a sense of the tragedy of life there were pathos and music and a great heart in the girl . 
He arose instinctively , she also for she saw she had gained a point , and scored the impression deeper , and she had wit enough left to flee upon a victory . 
They were but commonplaces that remained to be exchanged , but the low , moved voices in which they passed made them sacred in the memory . 
And something surely had come , and come to dwell there . 
By one of the unconscious arts of tenderness the two women were enshrined together in his memory . 
So that in all ways and on either side , Fate played his game artfully with this poor pair of children . 
The generations were prepared , the pangs were made ready , before the curtain rose on the dark drama . 
In the same moment of time that she disappeared from Archie , there opened before Kirstie's eyes the cup like hollow in which the farm lay . 
She saw , some five hundred feet below her , the house making itself bright with candles , and this was a broad hint to her to hurry . 
For they were only kindled on a Sabbath night with a view to that family worship which rounded in the incomparable tedium of the day and brought on the relaxation of supper . 
She stood back she had no mind to direct attention to her late arrival or to her labouring breath . 
Kirstie , ye have shaved it this time , my lass ? said Clem . 
Whaur were ye ? O , just taking a dander by mysel' , said Kirstie . 
The signal was given , and the brothers began to go in one after another , amid the jostle and throng of Hob's children . 
Only Dandie , waiting till the last , caught Kirstie by the arm . 
When did ye begin to dander in pink hosen , Mistress Elliott ? he whispered slyly . 
She looked down she was one blush . 
She remembered the words of it , how it was to be when she had gotten a jo , and that that would be for good and evil . 
Will I have gotten my jo now ? she thought with a secret rapture . 
CHAPTER VII ENTER MEPHISTOPHELES TWO days later a gig from Crossmichael deposited Frank Innes at the doors of Hermiston . 
Once in a way , during the past winter , Archie , in some acute phase of boredom , had written him a letter . 
It had contained something in the nature of an invitation or a reference to an invitation precisely what , neither of them now remembered . 
That would require a gift of prophecy which has been denied to man . 
Innes had early word of it , and was able to take precautions . 
To do him justice , he was no less surprised to be going than Archie was to see him come and he carried off his wonder with an infinitely better grace . 
Well , here I am ! said he , as he alighted . 
Pylades has come to Orestes at last . 
By the way , did you get my answer ? No ? How very provoking ! Well , here I am to answer for myself , and that's better still . 
I am very glad to see you , of course , said Archie . 
I make you heartily welcome , of course . 
But you surely have not come to stay , with the Courts still sitting is that not most unwise ? Damn the Courts ! says Frank . 
a life of great familiarity and , as the days drew on , less and less intimacy . 
that they were rarely so much together by day . 
Archie had Hermiston to attend to , multifarious activities in the hills , in which he did not require , and had even refused , Frank's escort . 
I wonder what on earth he finds to do , Mrs. Elliott ? said he one morning , after he had just read the hasty billet and sat down to table . 
I suppose it will be business , sir , replied the housekeeper drily , measuring his distance off to him by an indicated curtsy . 
But I can't imagine what business ! he reiterated . 
I suppose it will be HIS business , retorted the austere Kirstie . 
He turned to her with that happy brightness that made the charm of his disposition , and broke into a peal of healthy and natural laughter . 
Well played , Mrs. Elliott ! he cried and the housekeeper's face relaxed into the shadow of an iron smile . 
Well played indeed ! said he . 
But you must not be making a stranger of me like that . 
I daresay you're perfectly right , ma'am , quoth the imperturbable Frank . 
Let me tell you , ma'am , that Archie is really quite a promising young man , and in my opinion he would do well at the Bar . 
The damned , cross grained , old broomstick ! ejaculated Innes . 
In the meantime , Kirstie had escaped into the kitchen , and before her vassal gave vent to her feelings . 
Here , ettercap ! Ye'll have to wait on yon Innes ! I canna haud myself in . 
Then she remembered her immediate purpose , and turned again on her fascinated auditor . 
But it was a strange thing how misfortune dogged him in his efforts to be genial . 
I must guard the reader against accepting Kirstie's epithets as evidence she was more concerned for their vigour than for their accuracy . 
Dwaibly , for instance nothing could be more calumnious . 
Frank was the very picture of good looks , good humour , and manly youth . 
They did not like him , and they showed it . 
preserved her own counsel , and tripped on his service , brisk , dumbly responsive , but inexorably unconversational . 
For the others , they were beyond hope and beyond endurance . 
Never had a young Apollo been cast among such rustic barbarians . 
But perhaps the cause of his ill success lay in one trait which was habitual and unconscious with him , yet diagnostic of the man . 
It was his practice to approach any one person at the expense of some one else . 
He offered you an alliance against the some one else he flattered you by slighting him you were drawn into a small intrigue against him before you knew how . 
Wonderful are the virtues of this process generally but Frank's mistake was in the choice of the some one else . 
He was not politic in that he listened to the voice of irritation . 
Archie had offended him at first by what he had felt to be rather a dry reception , had offended him since by his frequent absences . 
He was besides the one figure continually present in Frank's eye and it was to his immediate dependants that Frank could offer the snare of his sympathy . 
Now the truth is that the Weirs , father and son , were surrounded by a posse of strenuous loyalists . 
Of my lord they were vastly proud . 
It was a distinction in itself to be one of the vassals of the Hanging Judge , and his gross , formidable joviality was far from unpopular in the neighbourhood of his home . 
For Archie they had , one and all , a sensitive affection and respect which recoiled from a word of belittlement . 
Nor was Frank more successful when he went farther afield . 
To the Four Black Brothers , for instance , he was antipathetic in the highest degree . 
Hob thought him too light , Gib too profane . 
As for Dand , it will be enough to describe their first meeting , when Frank had been whipping a river and the rustic celebrity chanced to come along the path . 
I'm told you're quite a poet , Frank had said . 
Wha tell't ye that , mannie ? had been the unconciliating answer . 
O , everybody ! says Frank . 
God ! Here's fame ! said the sardonic poet , and he had passed on his way . 
Come to think of it , we have here perhaps a truer explanation of Frank's failures . 
Had he met Mr. Sheriff Scott he could have turned a neater compliment , because Mr. Scott would have been a friend worth making . 
Dand , on the other hand , he did not value sixpence , and he showed it even while he tried to flatter . 
on the evening before his death . 
Young Hay and young Pringle appeared again . 
He occupied Hermiston after the manner of an invader in a conquered capital . 
It was now that the name of The Recluse became general for the young man . 
Some say that Innes invented it Innes , at least , spread it abroad . 
How's all with your Recluse to day ? people would ask . 
Poor Archie is a good fellow , an excellent fellow , a fellow I always liked . 
I think it small of him to take his little disgrace so hard , and shut himself up . 
'Grant that it is a ridiculous story , painfully ridiculous , I keep telling him . 
'Be a man ! Live it down , man ! But not he . 
Of course , it's just solitude , and shame , and all that . 
But I confess I'm beginning to fear the result . 
It would be all the pities in the world if a really promising fellow like Weir was to end ill . 
I'm seriously tempted to write to Lord Hermiston , and put it plainly to him . 
And Frank would proceed , sweetly confidential I'll give you an idea , now . 
He's actually sore about the way that I'm received and he's left out in the county actually jealous and sore . 
He will neither accept the invitations he gets , nor stop brooding about the ones where he's left out . 
What I'm afraid of is that the wound's ulcerating . 
He had always one of those dark , secret , angry natures a little underhand and plenty of bile you know the sort . 
He must have inherited it from the Weirs , whom I suspect to have been a worthy family of weavers somewhere what's the cant phrase ? sedentary occupation . 
It's precisely the kind of character to go wrong in a false position like what his father's made for him , or he's making for himself , whichever you like to call it . 
And for my part , I think it a disgrace , Frank would say generously . 
Presently the sorrow and anxiety of this disinterested friend took shape . 
He began in private , in conversations of two , to talk vaguely of bad habits and low habits . 
I must say I'm afraid he's going wrong altogether , he would say . 
I'll tell you plainly , and between ourselves , I scarcely like to stay there any longer only , man , I'm positively afraid to leave him alone . 
You'll see , I shall be blamed for it later on . 
I'm staying at a great sacrifice . 
I'm hindering my chances at the Bar , and I can't blind my eyes to it . 
And what I'm afraid of is that I'm going to get kicked for it all round before all's done . 
You see , nobody believes in friendship nowadays . 
Well , Innes , his interlocutor would reply , it's very good of you , I must say that . 
If there's any blame going , you'll always be sure of MY good word , for one thing . 
Well , Frank would continue , candidly , I don't say it's pleasant . 
He has a very rough way with him his father's son , you know . 
I don't say he's rude of course , I couldn't be expected to stand that but he steers very near the wind . 
No , it's not pleasant but I tell ye , man , in conscience I don't think it would be fair to leave him . 
Mind you , I don't say there's anything actually wrong . 
What I say is that I don't like the looks of it , man ! and he would press the arm of his momentary confidant . 
In the early stages I am persuaded there was no malice . 
He talked but for the pleasure of airing himself . 
He was essentially glib , as becomes the young advocate , and essentially careless of the truth , which is the mark of the young ass and so he talked at random . 
There was no particular bias , but that one which is indigenous and universal , to flatter himself and to please and interest the present friend . 
And by thus milling air out of his mouth , he had presently built up a presentation of Archie which was known and talked of in all corners of the county . 
He had done something disgraceful , my dear . 
What , was not precisely known , and that good kind young man , Mr. Innes , did his best to make light of it . 
And Mr. Innes was very anxious about him now he was really uneasy , my dear he was positively wrecking his own prospects because he dared not leave him alone . 
To an idle , shallow , easy going customer like Frank , the smell of a mystery was attractive . 
They knew nothing of Sherlock Holmes in those days , but there was a good deal said of Talleyrand . 
And if you could have caught Frank off his guard , he would have confessed with a smirk that , if he resembled any one , it was the Marquis de Talleyrand Perigord . 
It was on the occasion of Archie's first absence that this interest took root . 
It was vastly deepened when Kirstie resented his curiosity at breakfast , and that same afternoon there occurred another scene which clinched the business . 
He was fishing Swingleburn , Archie accompanying him , when the latter looked at his watch . 
Well , good bye , said he . 
I have something to do . 
Don't be in such a hurry , cries Frank . 
Hold on till I get my rod up . 
I'll go with you I'm sick of flogging this ditch . 
And he began to reel up his line . 
He spoke with a laboured composure , a laboured kindness even but a child could see that his mind was made up . 
I beg your pardon , Innes I don't want to be disagreeable , but let us understand one another from the beginning . 
When I want your company , I'll let you know . 
O ! cries Frank , you don't want my company , don't you ? Apparently not just now , replied Archie . 
I even indicated to you when I did , if you'll remember and that was at dinner . 
If we two fellows are to live together pleasantly and I see no reason why we should not it can only be by respecting each other's privacy . 
If we begin intruding O , come ! I'll take this at no man's hands . 
Is this the way you treat a guest and an old friend ? cried Innes . 
to a long visit from you , and that I'm taking precautions at the first . 
I see the thing that we that I , if you like might fall out upon , and I step in and OBSTO PRINCIPIIS . 
I wager you five pounds you'll end by seeing that I mean friendliness , and I assure you , Francie , I do , he added , relenting . 
Bursting with anger , but incapable of speech , Innes shouldered his rod , made a gesture of farewell , and strode off down the burn side . 
Archie watched him go without moving . 
He was sorry , but quite unashamed . 
He hated to be inhospitable , but in one thing he was his father's son . 
He had a strong sense that his house was his own and no man else's and to lie at a guest's mercy was what he refused . 
He hated to seem harsh . 
But that was Frank's lookout . 
If Frank had been commonly discreet , he would have been decently courteous . 
And there was another consideration . 
Either Frank would go , and that would be a relief or he would continue to stay , and his host must continue to endure him . 
Innes went off down hill in a passion of resentment , easy to be understood , but which yielded progressively to the needs of his situation . 
But the step once taken , was practically irretrievable . 
Frank's resemblance to Talleyrand strikes me as imaginary but at least not Talleyrand himself could have more obediently taken his lesson from the facts . 
He met Archie at dinner without resentment , almost with cordiality . 
You must take your friends as you find them , he would have said . 
Archie couldn't help being his father's son , or his grandfather's , the hypothetical weaver's , grandson . 
So excellently was it controlled that he awoke next morning with his head full of a different , though a cognate subject . 
First he remarked that , although Archie set out in all the directions of the compass , he always came home again from some point between the south and west . 
But it was difficult to advance farther . 
With his rod for a pretext , he vainly visited each of them in turn nothing was to be seen suspicious about this trinity of moorland settlements . 
He would have tried to follow Archie , had it been the least possible , but the nature of the land precluded the idea . 
He did the next best , ensconced himself in a quiet corner , and pursued his movements with a telescope . 
On the two following , Frank had himself been absent on some of his excursions among the neighbouring families . 
It was not until the fourth , accordingly , that Frank had occasion to set eyes on the enchantress . 
With the first look , all hesitation was over . 
She came with the Cauldstaneslap party then she lived at Cauldstaneslap . 
Mighty attractive milkmaid , he observed , on the way home . 
O , the girl you're looking at aren't you ? Forward there on the road . 
She came attended by the rustic bard presumably , therefore , belongs to his exalted family . 
The single objection ! for the four black brothers are awkward customers . 
If anything were to go wrong , Gib would gibber , and Clem would prove inclement and Dand fly in danders , and Hob blow up in gobbets . 
It would be a Helliott of a business ! Very humorous , I am sure , said Archie . 
Well , I am trying to be so , said Frank . 
It's none too easy in this place , and with your solemn society , my dear fellow . 
But confess that the milkmaid has found favour in your eyes , or resign all claim to be a man of taste . 
It is no matter , returned Archie . 
And at this Archie lost some of his control . 
He changed his stick from one hand to the other , and O , for God's sake , don't be an ass ! he cried . 
Ass ? That's the retort delicate without doubt , says Frank . 
Beware of the homespun brothers , dear . 
If they come into the dance , you'll see who's an ass . 
That was all I wanted , an articulate confession , said Frank . 
I beg to remind you began Archie . 
But he was interrupted in turn . 
My dear fellow , don't . 
The subject's dead and buried . 
And Frank began to talk hastily on other matters , an art in which he was an adept , for it was his gift to be fluent on anything or nothing . 
But although Archie had the grace or the timidity to suffer him to rattle on , he was by no means done with the subject . 
When he came home to dinner , he was greeted with a sly demand , how things were looking Cauldstaneslap ways . 
Frank took his first glass of port out after dinner to the toast of Kirstie , and later in the evening he returned to the charge again . 
I say , Weir , you'll excuse me for returning again to this affair . 
I've been thinking it over , and I wish to beg you very seriously to be more careful . 
It's not a safe business . 
Not safe , my boy , said he . 
Well , the end of the milkmaid or , to speak more by the card , the end of Miss Christina Elliott of the Cauldstaneslap . 
I assure you , Archie broke out , this is all a figment of your imagination . 
There is nothing to be said against that young lady you have no right to introduce her name into the conversation . 
I'll make a note of it , said Frank . 
She shall henceforth be nameless , nameless , nameless , Grigalach ! I make a note besides of your valuable testimony to her character . 
I only want to look at this thing as a man of the world . 
Admitted she's an angel but , my good fellow , is she a lady ? This was torture to Archie . 
I beg your pardon , he said , struggling to be composed , but because you have wormed yourself into my confidence O , come ! cried Frank . 
Your confidence ? It was rosy but unconsenting . 
You say I wormed myself into your confidence . 
I will hear no more of this , he said , in a trembling voice . 
But Frank again held up his cigar . 
Tell me one thing first . 
Tell me if this is not a friend's part that I am playing ? I believe you think it so , replied Archle . 
I can go as far as that . 
I can do so much justice to your motives . 
But I will hear no more of it . 
I am going to bed . 
That's right , Weir , said Frank heartily . 
So Archie marched off to bed , and Frank sat alone by the table for another hour or so , smiling to himself richly . 
He felt a pleasant sense of power . 
Which was it to be ? He lingered long , relishing the details of schemes that he was too idle to pursue . 
CHAPTER VIII A NOCTURNAL VISIT KIRSTIE had many causes of distress . 
Talk is the last link , the last relation . 
But with the end of the conversation , when the voice stops and the bright face of the listener is turned away , solitude falls again on the bruised heart . 
Kirstie had lost her cannie hour at e'en she could no more wander with Archie , a ghost if you will , but a happy ghost , in fields Elysian . 
And to her it was as if the whole world had fallen silent to him , but an unremarkable change of amusements . 
And she raged to know it . 
The effervescency of her passionate and irritable nature rose within her at times to bursting point . 
This is the price paid by age for unseasonable ardours of feeling . 
For , with the clairvoyance of a genuine love , she had pierced the mystery that had so long embarrassed Frank . 
Since then , by arts , by accident , by small things observed , and by the general drift of Archie's humour , she had passed beyond all possibility of doubt . 
Not thus would she have chosen . 
But the gods had pronounced , and her doom was otherwise . 
She lay tossing in bed that night , besieged with feverish thoughts . 
There were dangerous matters pending , a battle was toward , over the fate of which she hung in jealousy , sympathy , fear , and alternate loyalty and disloyalty to either side . 
Now she was reincarnated in her niece , and now in Archie . 
Now she saw , through the girl's eyes , the youth on his knees to her , heard his persuasive instances with a deadly weakness , and received his overmastering caresses . 
Suddenly she heard feet on the stairs his feet , and soon after the sound of a window sash flung open . 
She sat up with her heart beating . 
He had gone to his room alone , and he had not gone to bed . 
She tore off her nightcap , and her hair fell about her shoulders in profusion . 
By the faint light of her nocturnal rush , she stood before the looking glass , carried her shapely arms above her head , and gathered up the treasures of her tresses . 
She was never backward to admire herself that kind of modesty was a stranger to her nature and she paused , struck with a pleased wonder at the sight . 
Ye daft auld wife ! she said , answering a thought that was not and she blushed with the innocent consciousness of a child . 
Hastily she did up the massive and shining coils , hastily donned a wrapper , and with the rushlight in her hand , stole into the hall . 
Below stairs she heard the clock ticking the deliberate seconds , and Frank jingling with the decanters in the dining room . 
Aversion rose in her , bitter and momentary . 
Nesty , tippling puggy ! she thought and the next moment she had knocked guardedly at Archie's door and was bidden enter . 
He turned round as she came in , and showed her a pale face against the window frame . 
Is that you , Kirstie ? he asked . 
Come in ! It's unco late , my dear , said Kirstie , affecting unwillingness . 
No , no , he answered , not at all . 
Come in , if you want a crack . 
I am not sleepy , God knows ! She advanced , took a chair by the toilet table and the candle , and set the rushlight at her foot . 
O , my dear , that'll no dae ! said Kirstie . 
It's ill to blend the eyes of love . 
O , Mr. Erchie , tak a thocht ere it's ower late . 
Ye shouldna be impatient o' the braws o' life , they'll a' come in their saison , like the sun and the rain . 
Ye're young yet ye've mony cantie years afore ye . 
Weel , and I'll tell ye , she said . 
It's just this , that I'm feared . 
I'm feared for ye , my dear . 
Remember , your faither is a hard man , reaping where he hasna sowed and gaithering where he hasna strawed . 
It's easy speakin' , but mind ! Ye'll have to look in the gurly face o'm , where it's ill to look , and vain to look for mercy . 
And , my dear Mr. Erchie , she continued , with a change of voice , ye mauna think that I canna sympathise wi' ye . 
Ye mauna think that I havena been young mysel' . 
Lang syne , when I was a bit lassie , no twenty yet She paused and sighed . 
Clean and caller , wi' a fit like the hinney bee , she continned . 
Mony had come before , and I would nane o' them . 
But this yin had a tongue to wile the birds frae the lift and the bees frae the foxglove bells . 
Deary me , but it's lang syne ! Folk have dee'd sinsyne and been buried , and are forgotten , and bairns been born and got merrit and got bairns o' their ain . 
But while he was here , I could take care o' mysel' . 
He came towards her slowly from the window , took up her hand in his and kissed it . 
Kirstie , he said hoarsely , you have misjudged me sorely . 
I swear by my honour I have done her no wrong , said Archie . 
I swear by my honour and the redemption of my soul that there shall none be done her . 
I have heard of this before . 
I have been foolish , Kirstie , not unkind , and , above all , not base . 
There's my bairn ! said Kirstie , rising . 
I'll can trust ye noo , I'll can gang to my bed wi' an easy hairt . 
And then she saw in a flash how barren had been her triumph . 
And a kind of horror fell upon her at what she had done . 
She wore a tragic mask . 
If the hale hypothec were to fa' , I think , laddie , I would dee ! Excuse a daft wife that loves ye , and that kenned your mither . 
Ay , but Kirstie , my woman , you're asking me ower much at last , said Archie , profoundly moved , and lapsing into the broad Scots . 
Ye're asking what nae man can grant ye , what only the Lord of heaven can grant ye if He see fit . 
Ay ! And can even He ! I can promise ye what I shall do , and you can depend on that . 
But how I shall feel my woman , that is long past thinking of ! They were both standing by now opposite each other . 
The face of Archie wore the wretched semblance of a smile hers was convulsed for a moment . 
Promise me ae thing , she cried in a sharp voice . 
Promise me ye'll never do naething without telling me . 
No , Kirstie , I canna promise ye that , he replied . 
I have promised enough , God kens ! May the blessing of God lift and rest upon ye dear ! she said . 
God bless ye , my old friend , said he . 
CHAPTER IX AT THE WEAVER'S STONE IT was late in the afternoon when Archie drew near by the hill path to the Praying Weaver's stone . 
The Hags were in shadow . 
The emptiness and solitude of the great moors seemed to be concentrated there , and Kirstie pointed out by that figure of sunshine for the only inhabitant . 
His first sight of her was thus excruciatingly sad , like a glimpse of a world from which all light , comfort , and society were on the point of vanishing . 
Archie's slow pace was quickened his legs hasted to her though his heart was hanging back . 
But he deceived her , pausing a few steps away , not less white than herself , and holding up his hand with a gesture of denial . 
No , Christina , not to day , he said . 
To day I have to talk to you seriously . 
Sit ye down , please , there where you were . 
The revulsion of feeling in Christina's heart was violent . 
She could have wept , but pride withheld her . 
She sat down on the stone , from which she had arisen , part with the instinct of obedience , part as though she had been thrust there . 
The schoolmaster that there is in all men , to the despair of all girls and most women , was now completely in possession of Archie . 
It was the same with his constrained voice and embarrassed utterance and if so if it was all over the pang of the thought took away from her the power of thinking . 
He stood before her some way off . 
Kirstie , there's been too much of this . 
We've seen too much of each other . 
She looked up quickly and her eyes contracted . 
There's no good ever comes of these secret meetings . 
They're not frank , not honest truly , and I ought to have seen it . 
People have begun to talk and it's not right of me . 
Do you see ? I see somebody will have been talking to ye , she said sullenly . 
They have , more than one of them , replied Archie . 
And whae were they ? she cried . 
That is what I feared . 
Who were they ? Who has dared ? Archie was on the point of losing his temper . 
As a matter of fact , not any one had talked to Christina on the matter and she strenuously repeated her own first question in a panic of self defence . 
Ah , well ! what does it matter ? he said . 
They were good folk that wished well to us , and the great affair is that there are people talking . 
My dear girl , we have to be wise . 
We must not wreck our lives at the outset . 
They may be long and happy yet , and we must see to it , Kirstie , like God's rational creatures and not like fool children . 
There is one thing we must see to before all . 
You're worth waiting for , Kirstie ! worth waiting for a generation it would be enough reward . 
And here he remembered the schoolmaster again , and very unwisely took to following wisdom . 
The first thing that we must see to , is that there shall be no scandal about for my father's sake . 
That would ruin all do ye no see that ? Kirstie was a little pleased , there had been some show of warmth of sentiment in what Archie had said last . 
But the dull irritation still persisted in her bosom with the aboriginal instinct , having suffered herself , she wished to make Archie suffer . 
And besides , there had come out the word she had always feared to hear from his lips , the name of his father . 
It is not to be supposed that , during so many days with a love avowed between them , some reference had not been made to their conjoint future . 
It had in fact been often touched upon , and from the first had been the sore point . 
Again and again he had touched on marriage again and again been driven back into indistinctness by a memory of Lord Hermiston . 
She was raised up and dashed down again bleeding . 
Ye havena told me yet , she said , who was it spoke ? Your aunt for one , said Archie . 
Auntie Kirstie ? she cried . 
And what do I care for my Auntie Kirstie ? She cares a great deal for her niece , replied Archie , in kind reproof . 
Troth , and it's the first I've heard of it , retorted the girl . 
The question here is not who it is , but what they say , what they have noticed , pursued the lucid schoolmaster . 
That is what we have to think of in self defence . 
Pardon me , Kirstie , she was not the only one , interposed Archie . 
I had two warnings , two sermons , last night , both most kind and considerate . 
Had you been there , I promise you you would have grat , my dear ! And they opened my eyes . 
I saw we were going a wrong way . 
Who was the other one ? Kirstie demanded . 
By this time Archie was in the condition of a hunted beast . 
Mr. Frank ! she cried . 
What nex' , I would like to ken ? He spoke most kindly and truly . 
What like did he say ? I am not going to tell you you have nothing to do with that , cried Archie , startled to find he had admitted so much . 
O , I have naething to do with it ! she repeated , springing to her feet . 
And I think I'll better be going . 
I'll be wishing you good evening , Mr. Weir . 
And she made him a stately curtsey , shaking as she did so from head to foot , with the barren ecstasy of temper . 
She had moved some steps away from him before he recovered the gift of articulate speech . 
O , Kirstie woman ! There was in his voice a ring of appeal , a clang of mere astonishment that showed the schoolmaster was vanquished . 
She turned round on him . 
What do ye Kirstie me for ? she retorted . 
My name is Miss Christina Elliott , I would have ye to ken , and I daur ye to ca' me out of it . 
If I canna get love , I'll have respect , Mr. Weir . 
I'm come of decent people , and I'll have respect . 
I thocht I thocht I thocht I was sae happy ! and the first sob broke from her like the paroxysm of some mortal sickness . 
He took the poor child in his arms , and she nestled to his breast as to a mother's , and clasped him in hands that were strong like vices . 
He felt her whole body shaken by the throes of distress , and had pity upon her beyond speech . 
Pity , and at the same time a bewildered fear of this explosive engine in his arms , whose works he did not understand , and yet had been tampering with . 
There arose from before him the curtains of boyhood , and he saw for the first time the ambiguous face of woman as she is . 
In vain he looked back over the interview he saw not where he had offended . 
It seemed unprovoked , a wilful convulsion of brute nature . 
Antinomian , one of a sect which holds that under the gospel dispensation the moral law is not obligatory . 
Auld Hornie , the Devil . 
Bauchles , brogues , old shoes . 
Bees in their bonnet , eccentricities . 
Black a vised , dark complexioned . 
Bonnet laird , small landed proprietor , yeoman . 
Buff , play buff on , to make a fool of , to deceive . 
Butt end , end of a cottage . 
Canny , careful , shrewd . 
Cutty , jade , also used playfully brat . 
Daft , mad , frolicsome . 
Disjaskit , worn out , disreputable looking . 
Dwaibly , infirm , rickety . 
Dule tree , the tree of lamentation , the hanging tree . 
Feck , quantity , portion . 
Feckless , feeble , powerless . 
Fell , strong and fiery . 
Fey , unlike yourself , strange , as if urged on by fate , or as persons are observed to be in the hour of approaching death or disaster . 
Flyped , turned up , turned in side out . 
Forbye , in addition to . 
Forgather , to fall in with . 
Fushionless , pithless , weak . 
Fyle , to soil , to defile . 
Fylement , obloquy , defilement . 
Gigot , leg of mutton . 
diminutive of Grizel , here a playful nickname . 
Glint , glance , sparkle . 
Guddle , to catch fish with the hands by groping under the stones or banks . 
Gumption , common sense , judgment . 
Gurley , stormy , surly . 
Hae , have , take . 
Heels ower hurdie , heels over head . 
Infeftment , a term in Scots law originally synonymous with investiture . 
Jeely piece , a slice of bread and jelly . 
Justifeed , executed , made the victim of justice . 
Jyle , jail Kebbuck , cheese . 
Lave , rest , remainder . 
Lown , lonely , still . 
Lyon King of Arms , the chief of the Court of Heraldry in Scotland . 
Macers , offiers of the supreme court . 
Guy Mannering , last chapter . 
Menseful , of good manners . 
Misbegowk , deception , disappointment . 
Mools , mould , earth . 
Muckle , much , great , big . 
My lane , by myself . 
Panel , in Scots law , the accused person in a criminal action , the prisoner . 
Peel , fortified watch tower . 
Plew stilts , plough handles . 
Policy , ornamental grounds of a country mansion . 
Rout , rowt , to roar , to rant . 
Rudas , haggard old woman . 
Runt , an old cow past breeding opprobriously , an old woman . 
Sasine , in Scots law , the act of giving legal possession of feudal property , or , colloquially , the deed by which that possession is proved . 
Sculduddery , impropriety , grossness . 
Session , the Court of Session , the supreme court of Scotland . 
Shauchling , shuffling , slipshod . 
Shoo , to chase gently . 
Sough , sound , murmur . 
Spec , The Speculative Society , a debating Society connected with Edingburgh University . 
Spunk , spirit , fire . 
Stockfish , hard , savourless . 
Suger bool , suger plum . 
Syne , since , then . 
Tawpie , a slow foolish slut , also used playfully monkey . 
Telling you , a good thing for you . 
Two names , local soubriquets in addition to patronymic . 
Unco , strange , extraordinary , very . 
Vennel , alley , lane . 
The Vennel , a narrow lane in Edingburgh , running out of the Grassmarket . 
Wae , sad , unhappy . 
Windlestae , crested dog's tail , grass . 
