Yes , I'm Tom Swift , was the reply . 
Did you wish to see me ? I do . 
I'm Mr. James Gunmore , secretary of the Eagle Park Aviation Association . 
I had some correspondence with you about a prize contest we are going to hold . 
I believe Oh , yes , I remember now , and the young inventor smiled pleasantly as he opened wider the door of his home . 
Won't you come in ? My father will be glad to see you . 
He is as much interested in airships as I am . 
And Tom led the way to the library , where the secretary of the aviation society was soon seated in a big , comfortable leather chair . 
I thought we could do better , and perhaps come to some decision more quickly , if I came to see you , than if we corresponded , went on Mr. Gunmore . 
I hope I haven't disturbed you at any of your inventions , and the secretary smiled at the youth . 
No. I'm through for to day , replied Tom . 
I'm glad to see you . 
I thought at first it was my chum , Ned Newton . 
He generally runs over in the evening . 
We expect to have all the prominent 'bird men' there , to compete for prizes , and your name was mentioned . 
I wrote to you , as you doubtless recall , asking if you did not care to enter . 
We want to make it as complete as possible , and we all feel that it would not be so unless we had a Swift aeroplane there . 
It's very kind of you to say so , remarked Tom , but since my big craft was destroyed I really have nothing I could enter . 
Haven't you an aeroplane of any kind ? I made this trip especially to get you to enter . 
Ten thousand dollars is the grand prize , to be awarded for the quickest flight on record . 
And I wouldn't like that . 
No , agreed Mr. Gunmore . 
Still , I do wish we could induce you to enter . 
I don't mind telling you that we consider you a drawing card . 
Can't we induce you , some way ? I'm afraid not . 
I haven't any machine which Look here ! exclaimed the secretary eagerly . 
Why can't you build a special aeroplane to enter in the next meet ? You'll have plenty of time , as it doesn't come off for three months yet . 
We are only making the preliminary arrangements . 
It is now June , and the meet is scheduled for early in September . 
Couldn't you build a new and speedy aeroplane in that time ? Eagerly Mr. Gunmore waited for the answer . 
Tom Swift seemed to be considering it . 
There was an increased brightness to his eyes , and one could tell that he was thinking deeply . 
The secretary sought to clinch his argument . 
I believe , from what I have heard of your work in the past , that you could build an aeroplane which would win the ten thousand dollar prize , he went on . 
I would be very glad if you did win it , and , so I think , would be the gentlemen associated with me in this enterprise . 
It would be fine to have a New York State youth win the grand prize . 
Oh ! Excuse me , Tom , he said , I didn't know you had company . 
And he was about to withdraw . 
Don't go , father , said Tom . 
You will be as much interested in this as I am . 
This is Mr. Gunmore , of the Eagle Park Aviation Association . 
This is my father , Mr. Gunmore . 
I've heard of you , spoke the secretary as he shook hands with the aged inventor . 
You and your son have made , in aeronautics , a name to be proud of . 
And he wants us to go still farther , dad , broke in the youth . 
Me wants me to build a specially speedy aeroplane , and race for ten thousand dollars . 
Hum ! mused Mr. Swift . 
Well , are you going to do it , Tom ? Seems to me you ought to take a rest . 
There is plenty of time to make a new craft . 
Well , Tom can do as he likes about it , said his father . 
Do you think you could build anything speedier than your Butterfly , son ? I think so , father . 
That is , if you'd help me . 
I have a plan partly thought out , but it will take some time to finish it . 
Still , I might get it done in time . 
I hope you'll try ! exclaimed the secretary . 
May I ask whether it would be a monoplane or a biplane ? A monoplane , I think , answered Tom . 
They are much more speedy than the double deckers , and if I'm going to try for the ten thousand dollars I need the fastest machine I can build . 
We have the promise of one or two very fast monoplanes for the meet , went on Mr. Gunmore . 
Would yours be of a new type ? I think it would , was the reply of the young inventor . 
In fact , I am thinking of making a smaller monoplane than any that have yet been constructed , and yet one that will carry two persons . 
The hardest work will be to make the engine light enough and still have it sufficiently powerful to make over a hundred miles an hour , if necessary . 
A hundred miles an hour in a small monoplane ! It isn't possible ! cried the secretary . 
I'll make better time than that , said Tom quietly , and with not a trace of boasting in his tones . 
Then you'll enter the meet ? asked Mr. Gunmore eagerly . 
Well , I'll think about it , promised Tom . 
I'll let you know in a few days . 
Meanwhile , I'll be thinking out the details for my new craft . 
I have been going to build one ever since I got back , after having seen my Red Cloud crushed in the ice cave . 
Now I think I had better begin active work . 
I hope you will soon let me know , resumed the secretary . 
I'm going to put you down as a possible contestant for the ten thousand dollar prize . 
That can do no harm , and I hope you win it . 
I trust He paused suddenly , and listened . 
So did Tom Swift and his father , for they all distinctly heard stealthy footsteps under the open windows of the library . 
Some one is out there , listening , said Tom in low tones . 
Perhaps it's Eradicate Sampson , suggested Mr. Swift , referring to the eccentric colored man who was employed by the inventor and his son to help around the place . 
Very likely it was Eradicate , Tom . 
I don't think so , was the lad's answer . 
He went to the village a while ago , and said he wouldn't be back until late to night . 
He had to get some medicine for his mule , Boomerang , who is sick . 
No , it wasn't Eradicate but some one was under that window , trying to hear what we said . 
As he spoke in guarded tones , Tom went softly to the casement and looked out . 
He could observe nothing , as the night was dark , and the new moon , which had been shining , was now dimmed by clouds . 
See anything ? asked Mr. Gunmore as he advanced to Tom's side . 
No , was the low answer . 
I can't hear anything now , either . 
I'll go speak to Mrs. Baggert , the housekeeper , volunteered Mr. Swift . 
Perhaps it was she , or she may know something about it . 
He started from the room , and as he went Tom noticed , with something of a start , that his father appeared older that night than he had ever looked before . 
There was a trace of pain on the face of the aged inventor , and his step was lagging . 
I think he's been working too hard on his wireless motor . 
Gladby to come over and see dad . 
But now I want to find out who that was under this window . 
Once more Tom looked out . 
The moon had emerged from behind a thin bank of clouds , and gave a little light . 
See anything ? asked Mr. Gunmore cautiously . 
No , whispered the youth , for it being a warm might , the windows were open top and bottom , a screen on the outside keeping out mosquitoes and other insects . 
I can't see a thing , went on Tom , but I'm sure He paused suddenly . 
As he spoke there sounded a rustling in the shrubbery a little distance from the window . 
There's something ! exclaimed Mr. Gunmore . 
I see ! answered the young inventor . 
, Tom dropped out of the casement upon the thick grass . 
As he did so he was aware of a further movement in the bushes . 
They were violently agitated , and a second later a dark object sprang from them and sprinted along the path . 
Here ! Who are you ? Hold on ! cried the young inventor . 
But the figure never halted . 
Tom sprang forward , determined to see who it was , and , if possible , capture him . 
Hold on ! he cried again . 
Tom was a good runner , and in a few seconds he had gained on the fugitive , who could just be seen in the dim light from the crescent moon . 
I've got you ! cried Tom . 
But he was mistaken , for at that instant his foot caught on the outcropping root of a tree , and the young inventor went flat on his face . 
Just my luck ! he cried . 
He was quickly on his feet again , and took after the fugitive . 
The latter glanced back , and , as it happened , Tom had a good look at his face . 
He almost came to a stop , so startled was he . 
Andy Foger ! he exclaimed as he recognized the bully who had always proved himself such an enemy of our hero . 
A moment later he heard the puffing of an automobile , as some one cranked it up . 
It's too late ! exclaimed Tom . 
There he goes in his car ! And knowing it would be useless to keep up the chase , the youth turned back toward his house . 
Chapter Two Mr. Swift is Ill Who was it ? asked Mr. Gunmore as Tom again entered the library . 
A friend of yours ? Hardly a friend , replied Tom grimly . 
I don't know what he's up to now , but certainly it wasn't any good . 
He's got nerve , sneaking up under our windows ! What do you think was his object ? It would he hard to say . 
Can't you find him to morrow , and ask him ? There's not much satisfaction in that . 
The less I have to do with Andy Foger the better I'm satisfied . 
Well , perhaps it's just as well I fell , and couldn't catch him . 
There would have been a fight , and I don't want to worry dad any more than I can help . 
He hasn't been very well of late . 
No , he doesn't look very strong , agreed the secretary . 
But I hope he doesn't get sick , and I hope no bad consequences result from the eavesdropping of this Foger fellow . 
Tom started for the hall , to get a brush with which to remove some of the dust gathered in his chase after Andy . 
As he opened the library door to go out Mr. Swift came in again . 
I saw Mrs. Baggert , Tom , he said . 
She wasn't out under the window , and , as you said , Eradicate isn't about . 
His mule is in the barn , so it couldn't have been the animal straying around . 
But you'd better go lie down , father . 
It's getting late , and you look tired . 
I am tired , Tom , and I think I'll go to bed . 
Have you finished your arrangements with Mr. Gunmore ? Well , I guess we've gone as far as we can until I invent the new aeroplane , replied Tom , with a smile . 
Then you'll really enter the meet ? asked the secretary eagerly . 
I think I will , decided Tom . 
The prize of ten thousand dollars is worth trying for , and besides that , I'll be glad to get to work again on a speedy craft . 
Yes , I'll enter the meet . 
Good ! exclaimed Mr. Gunmore , shaking hands with the young inventor . 
I didn't have my trip for nothing , then . 
I'll go back in the morning and report to the committee that I've been successful . 
I am greatly obliged to you . 
He left the Swift home , after refusing Tom's invitation to remain all night , and went to his hotel . 
Tom then insisted that his father retire . 
As for the young inventor , he was not satisfied with the result of his attempt to catch Andy Foger . 
He had no idea why the bully was hiding under the library window , but Tom surmised that some mischief might be afoot . 
Sam Snedecker or Pete Bailey , the two cronies of Andy , may still be around here , trying to play some trick on me , mused Tom . 
I think I'll take a look outside . 
And taking a stout cane from the umbrella rack , the youth sallied forth into the yard and extensive grounds surrounding his house . 
While he is thus looking for possible intruders we will tell you a little more about him than has been possible since the call of the aviation secretary . 
Tom Swift lived with his father , Barton Swift , in the town of Shopton , New York State . 
The young man had followed in the footsteps of his parent , and was already an inventor of note . 
Their home was presided over by Mrs. Baggert , as housekeeper , since Mrs. Swift had been dead several years . 
In the first volume of this series , entitled Tom Swift and his Motor Cycle , here was related how he came to possess that machine . 
With Mr. Damon , Tom made several trips in this craft , as set forth in the book , Tom Swift and His Airship . 
After Tom got back from Earthquake Island he went with Mr. Barcoe Jenks , whom he met on the ill fated bit of land , to discover the secret of the diamond makers . 
But Tom and his party were first on the scene , and accomplished their purpose , though they had to fight the savage Indians . 
The airship was wrecked in a cave of ice , that collapsed on it , and the survivors had desperate work getting away from the frozen North . 
Well , I guess no one is here , remarked the young inventor as he completed the circuit of the grounds and walked slowly back toward the house . 
I think I scared Andy so that he won't come back right away . 
He had the laugh on me , though , when I stumbled and fell . 
As Tom proceeded he heard some one approaching , around the path at the side of the house . 
Who's there ? he called quickly , taking a firmer grasp of his stick , It's me , Massa Swift , was the response . 
I jest come back from town . 
I got some peppermint fo' mah mule , Boomerang , dat's what I got . 
Oh ! It's you , is it , Rad ? asked the youth in easier tones . 
Dat's who it am , Did yo' t'ink it were some un else ? I did , replied Tom . 
Andy Foger has been sneaking around . 
Keep your eyes open the rest of the night , Rad . 
I will , Massa Tom . 
The youth went into the house , having left word with the engineer , Mr. Jackson , to be on the alert for anything suspicious . 
And now I guess I'll go to bed , and make an early start to morrow morning , planning my new aeroplane , mused Tom . 
Something has happened to your father ! was the startling reply . 
He's fallen down , and is Unconscious ! Come quickly ! Send for the doctor ! Tom fairly ran toward his father's room . 
Chapter Three The Plans Disappear Mr. Swift was lying on the floor , where he had fallen , in front of his bed , as he was preparing to retire . 
How did it happen ? When was it ? he asked of Mrs. Baggert , as he held up his father's head , and noted that the aged man was breathing slightly . 
I don't know what happened , Tom , answered the housekeeper , but I beard him fall , and ran upstairs , only to find him lying there , just like that . 
Hadn't you better have a doctor ? Yes we'll need one at once . 
Send Eradicate Tell him to run not to wait for his mule Boomerang is too slow . 
Oh , no ! The telephone , of course ! Why didn't I think of that at first ? Please telephone for Dr . 
Ask him to come as soon as possible , and then tell Garret Jackson to step here . 
I'll have him help me get father into bed . 
The housekeeper hastened to the instrument , and was soon in communication with the physician , who promised to call at once . 
The engineer was summoned from another part of the house , and then Eradicate was aroused . 
Mrs. Baggert had the colored man help her get some kettles of hot water in readiness for possible use by the doctor . 
Mr. Jackson aided Tom to lift Mr. Swift up on the bed , and they got off some of his clothes . 
I'll try to see if I can revive him with a little aromatic spirits of ammonia , decided Tom , as he noticed that his father was still unconscious . 
He hastened to prepare the strong spirits , while he was conscious of a feeling of fear and alarm , mingled with sadness . 
Suppose his father should die ? Tom could not bear to think of that . 
He would be left all alone , and how much he would miss the companionship and comradeship of his father none but himself knew . 
Oh ! but I mustn't think he's going to die ! exclaimed the youth , as he mixed the medicine . 
Mr. Swift feebly opened his eyes after Tom and Mr. Jackson had succeeded in forcing some of the ammonia between his lips . 
Where am I ? What happened ? asked the aged inventor faintly . 
We don't know , exactly , spoke Tom softly . 
You are ill , father . 
I've sent for the doctor . 
Yes , I'm I'm ill , murmured the aged man . 
Something hurts me here , and he put his hand over his heart . 
Tom felt a nameless sense of fear . 
He wished now that he had insisted on his parent consulting a physician some time before , when Mr. Swift first complained of a minor ailment . 
Perhaps now it was too late . 
Oh ! when will that doctor come ? murmured Tom impatiently . 
Mrs. Baggert , who was nervously going in and out of the room , again went to the telephone . 
He's on his way , the housekeeper reported . 
His wife said he just started out in his auto . 
Gladby hurried into the room a little later , and cast a quick look at Mr. Swift , who had again lapsed into unconsciousness . 
Do you think he think he's going to die ? faltered Tom . 
He was no longer the self reliant young inventor . 
He could meet danger bravely when it threatened himself alone , but when his father was stricken he seemed to lose all courage . 
Die ? Nonsense ! exclaimed the doctor heartily . 
He's not dead yet , at all events , and while there's life there's hope . 
I'll soon have him out of this spell . 
It was some little time , however , before Mr. Swift again opened his eyes , but he seemed to gain strength from the remedies which Dr . 
Gladby administered , and in about an hour the inventor could sit up . 
But you must be careful , cautioned the physician . 
I'll be in again in the morning , and now I'll leave you some medicine , to be taken every two hours . 
Oh , I feel much better , said Mr. Swift , and his voice certainly seemed Stronger . 
I can't imagine what happened . 
I came upstairs , after Tom had received a visit from the minister , and that's all I remember . 
The minister , father ! exclaimed Tom , in great amazement . 
The minister wasn't here this evening ! That was Mr. Gunmore , the aviation secretary . 
Don't you remember ? I don't remember any gentleman like that calling here to night , Mr. Swift said blankly . 
It was the minister , I'm sure , Tom . 
The minister was here last night , Mr. Swift , said the housekeeper . 
Was he ? Why , it seems like to night . 
And I came upstairs after talking to him , and then it all got black , and and There , now don't try to think , advised the doctor . 
You'll be all right in the morning . 
But I can't remember anything about that aviation man , protested Mr. Swift . 
I never used to be that way forgetting things . 
I don't like it ! Oh , it's just because you're tired , declared the physician . 
It will all come back to you in the morning . 
I'll stop in and see you then . 
Now try to go to sleep . 
And he left the room . 
Tom followed him , Mrs. Baggert and Mr. Jackson remaining with the sick man . 
What is the matter with my father , Dr . 
Gladby ? asked Tom earnestly , as the doctor prepared to take his departure . 
Is it anything serious ? Well , began the medical man , I would not be doing my duty , Tom , if I did not tell you what it is . 
That is , it is comparatively serious , but it is curable , and I think we can bring him around . 
He has an affection of the heart , that , while it is common enough , is sometimes fatal . 
But I do not think it will be so in your father's case . 
He has a fine constitution , and this would never have happened had he not been run down from overwork . 
That is the principal trouble . 
What he needs is rest and then , with the proper remedies , he will be as well as before . 
But that strange lapse of memory , doctor ? Oh , that is nothing . 
It is due to the fact that he has been using his brain too much . 
The brain protests , and refuses to work until rested . 
Your father has been working rather hard of late hasn't he ? Yes on a new wireless motor . 
Well , a good rest is what he needs , and then his mind and body will be in tune again . 
I'll be around in the morning . 
Tom was somewhat relieved by the doctor's words , but not very much so , and he spent an anxious night , getting up every two hours to administer the medicine . 
Toward morning Mr. Swift fell into a heavy sleep , and did not awaken for some time . 
Oh , you're much better ! declared Dr . 
Gladby when he saw his patient that day . 
Yes , I feel better , admitted Mr Swift . 
And can't you remember about Mr. Gunmore calling ? asked Tom . 
The aged inventor shook his head , with a puzzled air . 
I can't remember it at all , he said . 
The minister is the last person I remember calling here . 
Tom looked worried , but the physician said it was a common feature of the disease from which Mr. Swift suffered , and would doubtless pass away . 
And you don't remember how we talked about me building a speedy aeroplane and trying for the ten thousand dollar prize ? asked Tom . 
I can't remember a thing about it , said the inventor , with a puzzled shake of his head , and I'm not going to try , at least not right away . 
But , Tom , if you're going to build a new aeroplane , I want to help you . 
I'll give you the benefit of my advice . 
I think my new form of motor can be used in it . 
Now ! now ! No inventions at least not just yet ! objected the physician . 
You must have a good rest first , Mr. Swift , and get strong . 
Then you and Tom can build as many airships as you like . 
Then a new idea came to Tom in regard to the shape of his aeroplane , and he worked several days drawing the plans for it . 
It was a new idea in construction , and he believed it would give him the great speed he desired . 
But I'd like dad to see it , he said . 
As soon as he's well enough I'll go over it with him . 
Gladby had said it would not now harm the aged inventor to do a little work . 
Tom spread the drawings out in front of his father , and began to explain them in detail . 
I really think you have something great there , Tom ! exclaimed Mr. Swift , at length . 
No , they're better that way , said Tom pleasantly , for he did not often disagree with his father . 
I'll show you from a little model I have made . 
I'll get it right away . 
Anxious to demonstrate that he was right in his theory , Tom hurried from the library to get the model of which he had spoken . 
He left the roll of plans lying on a small table near where his father was seated . 
The lad started in alarm , laid aside his model , and sprang to his father's side . 
He's had another of those heart attacks ! gasped Tom . 
He was just going to call Mrs. Baggert , when Mr. Swift opened his eyes . 
He looked at Tom , and the lad could see that they were bright , and did not show any signs of illness . 
Well , I declare ! exclaimed the inventor . 
I must have dozed off , Tom , while you were gone . 
I fell asleep ! Oh ! said Tom , much relieved . 
I was afraid you were ill again . 
Now , in this model , as you will see by the plans , it is necessary He paused , and looked over at the table where he had left the drawings . 
They were not there ! The plans , father ! Tom exclaimed . 
The plans I left on the table ! Where are they ? I haven't touched them , was the answer . 
They were on that table , where you put them , when I closed my eyes for a little nap . 
I forgot all about them . 
Are you sure they're missing ? They're not here ! And Tom gazed wildly about the room . 
The casement was open , and Tom noted that the screen was also unhooked , It had been closed when he went to get the model , he was sure of that . 
Look , dad ! See ! he exclaimed , as he picked up from the floor a small piece of paper . 
What is it , Tom ? A sheet on which I did some figuring . 
It is no good , but it was in with the plans . 
It must have dropped out . 
Do you mean that some one has been in here and taken the plans of your new aeroplane , Tom ? gasped his father . 
That's just what I mean ! They sneaked in here while you were dozing , took the plans , and jumped out of the window with them . 
On the way this paper fell out . 
It's the only clue we have . 
I'm going to have a look . 
And Tom jumped from the library window and ran down the path after the unknown thief . 
Now and then he paused to listen , but no sound came to him to tell of some one in retreat before him . 
Mighty queer , mused the youth . 
He saw no one , until , turning a corner , a little later , he met Eradicate Sampson . 
You haven't seen any strangers around here just now , have you , Rad ? asked Tom anxiously . 
No , indeedy , I hasn't , Massa Tom . 
What fo' kind ob a stranger was him ? That's just what I don't know . 
But some one sneaked into the library lust now and took some of my plans while my father dozed off . 
I jumped out after him as soon as I could , but he has disappeared . 
Maybe it were th' man who done stowed hisself away on yo' airship , de time yo' all went after de diamonds , suggested the colored man . 
No , it couldn't have been him . 
If it was anybody , it was Andy Foger , or some of his crowd . 
No , I guess not . 
Well , I must get back to dad , or he'll worry . 
Keep your eyes open , Rad , and if you see Andy Foger , or any one else , around here , let me know . 
Just sing out for all you're worth . 
Shall I call out , Massa Tom , ef I sees dat blessin' man ? You mean Mr. Damon ? Dat's de one . 
De gen'man what's allers a blessin' ob hisself or his shoelaces , or suffin laik dat . 
Shall I sing out ef I sees him ? Well , no not exactly , Rad . 
Just show Mr. Damon up to the house . 
I'd be glad to see him again , though I don't fancy he'll call . 
He's off on a little trip , and won't be back for a week . 
But watch out , Rad . 
And with that Tom turned toward the house , shaking his head over the puzzle of the missing plans . 
Did you find any one ? asked his father eagerly as the young inventor entered the library . 
No , was the gloomy answer . 
There wasn't a sign of any one . 
Tom went over to the window and looked about for clues . 
There was none that he could see , and a further examination of the ground under the window disclosed nothing . 
There was gravel beneath the casement , and this was not the best medium for retaining footprints . 
Nor were the gravel walks any better . 
Not a sign of any one , murmured Tom . 
Are you sure you didn't hear any noise , dad , when you dozed off ? Not a sound , Tom . 
In fact , it's rather unusual for me to go to sleep like that , but I suppose it's because of my illness . 
But I couldn't have been asleep long not more than two minutes . 
Yet in that time someone , who must have been on the watch , managed to get in here and take my plans for the new sky racer . 
I don't see how they got the wire screen open from the outside , though . 
It fastens with a strong hook . 
And was the screen open ? asked Mr. Swift Yes , it was unhooked . 
Either they pushed a wire in through the mesh , caught it under the hook , and pulled it up from the outside , or else the screen was opened from the inside . 
I don't believe they could get inside to open the screen without some of us seeing them , spoke the older inventor . 
More likely , Tom , it wasn't hooked , and they found it an easy matter to simply pull it open . 
I'll ask Mrs. Baggert if the screen was unhooked . 
But the housekeeper could not be certain on that point , and so that part of the investigation amounted to nothing . 
It's too bad ! exclaimed Mr. Swift . 
It's my fault , for dozing off that way . 
No , indeed , it isn't ! declared Tom stoutly . 
Is the loss a serious one ? asked his father . 
Have you no copy of the plans ? Yes , I have a rough draft from which I made the completed drawings , and I can easily make another set . 
But that isn't what worries me the mere loss of the plans . 
I have worked it out on a new principle , and it is not yet patented . 
That certainly is too bad , Tom . 
I never thought of that . 
Do you suspect any one ? No one , unless it's Andy Foger . 
He's mean enough to do a thing like that , but I didn't think he'd have the nerve . 
However , I'll see if I can learn anything about him . 
He may have been sneaking around , and if he has my plans he'd ask nothing better than to make a sky racer and beat me . 
Don't think any more about it , dad . 
I'll get back those plans . 
It's time for your medicine , and then you must lie down . 
For the aged inventor was looking tired and weak . 
Wearily he let Tom lead him to his room , and after seeing that the invalid was comfortable Tom called up Dr . 
Gladby , to have him come and see Mr. Swift . 
The doctor said his patient had been overdoing himself a little , and must rest more if he was to completely recover . 
Learning that his father was no worse , Tom set off to find Andy Foger . 
I can't rest until I know whether or not he has my plans , he said to himself . 
I don't want to make a speedy aeroplane , and find out at the last minute that Andy , or some of his cronies , have duplicated it . 
But Tom got little satisfaction from Andy Foger . 
Andy muttered many indignant negatives , and called on some of his cronies to witness that at the time the plans were taken he and they were some distance from the Swift home . 
So Tom was baffled and though he did not believe the red haired lad's denial , there was no way in which he could prove to the contrary . 
If he didn't take the plans , who did ? mused Tom . 
As the young inventor turned away after cross questioning Andy , the bully called out You'll never win that ten thousand dollars ! What do you know about that ? demanded Tom quickly . 
Oh , I know , sneered Andy . 
There'll be bigger and better aeroplanes in that meet than you can make , and you'll never win the prize . 
I suppose you heard about the affair by sneaking around under our windows , and listening , said Tom . 
Never mind how I know it , but I do , retorted the bully . 
Well , I'll tell you one thing , said Tom calmly . 
If you come around again it won't be healthy for you . 
Look out for live wires , if you try to do the listening act any more , Andy ! And with that ominous warning Tom turned away . 
What do you suppose he means , Andy ? asked Pete Bailey , one of Andy's cronies . 
It means he's got electrical wires strung around his place , declared Sam Snedecker , and that we'll be shocked if we go up there . 
I'm not going ! Me , either , added Pete , and Andy laughed uneasily . 
Tom heard what they said , and in the next few days he made himself busy by putting some heavy wires in and about the grounds where they would show best . 
But the wires carried no current , and were only displayed to impress a sense of fear on Andy and his cronies , which purpose they served well . 
They seemed to have completely disappeared , however , and the young inventor decided there was nothing else to do but to draw new ones . 
He set to work on them , and in the meanwhile tried to learn whether or not Andy had the missing plans . 
He sought this information by stealth , and was aided by his chum , Ned Newton . 
But all to no purpose . 
Not the slightest trace or clue was discovered . 
What will you do , Tom ? I don't see that there is anything I can do . 
I'll know , too , who stole my plans . 
But it will be too late , then . 
Yes , too late , perhaps , to stop them from using the drawings , hot not too late to punish them for the theft . 
It's a great mystery , and I'll be on the anxious seat all the while . 
But it can't be helped . 
When are you going to start work on the sky racer ? Pretty soon , now . 
I've got another set of plans made , and I've fixed them so that if they are stolen it won't do any one any good . 
How's that ? I've put in a whole lot of wrong figures and measurements , and scores of lines and curves that mean nothing . 
I have marked the right figures and lines by a secret mark , and when I work on them I'll use only the proper ones . 
But any one else wouldn't know this . 
Oh , I'll fool 'em this time ! I hope you do . 
Well , when you get the machine done I'd like to ride in it . 
Will it carry two , as your Butterfly does ? Yes , only it will be much different and , of course , it will go much faster . 
I'll give you a ride , all right , Ned . 
Well , now I must get busy and see what material I need for what I hope will prove to be the speediest aeroplane in the world . 
That's going some ! I must be leaving now . 
I saw Mary Nestor on my way over here . 
She was asking for you . 
She said you must be very busy , for she hadn't seen you in some time . 
Um ! was all Tom answered , but by the blush that mounted to his face it was evident that he was more interested in Mary Nestor than his mere exclamation indicated . 
When Ned had gone Tom got out pencil and paper , and was busily engaged in making some intricate calculations . 
He drew odd little sketches on the margin of the sheet , and then wrote out a list of the things he would need to construct the new aeroplane . 
Mr. Swift had improved very much in the past few days , and though Dr . 
Gladby said he was far from being well , the physician declared there was no reason why he should not do some inventive work . 
Whar yo' goin' ? Somebody's out in the garden ! exclaimed Tom , jumping up suddenly . 
Perhaps it's the same person who took the plans ! suggested Mr. Swift . 
Hold on , dere ! yelled Eradicate again . 
Mr. Damon is coming ! So I should judge , responded Mr. Swift , with a smile . 
Why , mah goodness ! It's Mr. Damon ! exclaimed Eradicate . 
Yes , my wife thought I'd look better , and more sedate , with a beard , so I grew one to please her . 
But I don't like it . 
Entirely too warm , bless my finger nails , yes ! I agree with you ! exclaimed Tom . 
Why , then this heavy beard of mine would come in handy . 
It would keep my throat and chin warm . 
And Mr. Damon ran his hands through his luxuriant whiskers . 
No more northern trips right away , said Tom . 
I'm about to build a speedy monoplane , to take part in the big meet at Eagle Park . 
Oh , yes , I heard about the meet , said Mr. Damon . 
I'd like to be in that . 
There are some races where a passenger is allowed . 
Have you got a razor ? asked Mr. Damon suddenly . 
What for ? inquired Mr. Swift , wondering what the eccentric man was going to do . 
Why , bless my shaving soap ! I'm going to cut off my beard . 
Where's a razor ? I'm going to shave at once . 
My wife won't mind when I tell her what it's for . 
Lend me a razor , please , Tom . 
Oh , there's plenty of time , explained the lad , with a laugh . 
The race doesn't take place for over two months . 
But when it does , I think you would be better off without a beard . 
I know it , said Mr. Damon simply . 
I'll shave before we enter the contest , Tom . 
But now tell me all about it . 
Tom did so , relating the story of the theft of the plans . 
Mr. Damon was for having Andy arrested at once , but Mr. Swift and his son pointed out that they had no evidence against him . 
All we can do , said the young inventor , is to keep watch on him , and see if he is building another aeroplane . 
He has all the facilities , and he may attempt to get ahead of me . 
If he enters a sky craft at the meet I'll be pretty sure that he has made it from my stolen plans . 
Bless my wing tips ! cried Mr. Damon . 
As you boys are all more or less familiar with aeroplanes , we will not devote much space to the description of the new one Tom Swift made . 
We can describe it in general terms , but there were some features of it which Tom kept a secret from all save his father . 
Suffice it to say that Tom had decided to build a small air craft of the single wing type , known as the monoplane . 
It was to be a cross between the Bleriot and the Antoinette , with the general features of both , but with many changes or improvements . 
The writer has seen a friend , with a very rapid camera , which was used to snap automobiles in flight , attempt to take a picture of a humming bird . 
He got the picture , all right , but the plate was blurred , showing that the wings had moved faster than the lens could throw them on the sensitive plate . 
The motor , which was air cooled , was located forward , and was just above the heads of the operator and the passenger who sat beside him . 
The single propeller , which was ten feet in diameter , gave a minimum thrust of one thousand pounds at two thousand revolutions per minute . 
This was one feature wherein Tom's craft differed from others . 
But I'm building this for speed , he said to Mr. Jackson , and I'm going to get it ! We'll make a hundred miles an hour without trouble . 
I believe you , replied the engineer . 
The motor you and your father have made is a wonder for lightness and power . 
In fact , the whole monoplane was so light and frail as to give one the idea of a rather large model , instead of a real craft , intended for service . 
But a careful inspection showed the great strength it had , for it was braced and guyed in a new way , and was as rigid as a steel trussed bridge . 
I'm going to name her the Humming Bird , replied Tom . 
She's little , but oh , my ! And I guess she'll bring home the prize , added the engineer . 
And as the days went by , and Tom , his father and Mr. Jackson continued to work on the speedy craft , this hope grew in the heart of the young inventor . 
But he could not rid himself of worry as to the fate of the plans that had disappeared . 
Who had them ? Was some one making a machine like his own from them ? Tom wished he knew . 
Looking out through a small observation peephole made for this purpose , he saw Mrs. Baggert hurrying toward the building . 
I wonder what's the matter ? he said aloud , for there was a look of worriment on the lady's face . 
Tom threw open the door . 
What is it , Mrs. Baggert ? he called . 
Some one up at the house who wants to see me ? No , it's your father ! panted the housekeeper , for she was quite stout . 
He is very ill again , and I can't seem to get Dr . 
Central says he doesn't answer . 
My father worse ! cried Tom in alarm , dropping his tools and hurrying from the shop . 
Where's Eradicate ? Send him for the doctor . 
Perhaps the wires are broken . 
If he can't locate Dr . 
We must have some one . 
Here , Rad ! Where are you ? he called , raising his voice . 
Heah I be ! answered the colored man , coming from the direction of the garden , which he had been weeding . 
Get cut your mule , and go for Dr . 
If he isn't home , get Dr . 
Hurry , Rad ! I's mighty sorry , Massa Tom , answered the colored man , but I cain't hurry , nohow . 
Why not ? Because Boomerang done gone lame , an' he won't run . 
I'll go mahse'f , but I cain't take dat air mule . 
I'll go in the Butterfly , decided Tom quickly . 
I'll run up to the house and see how dad is , and while I'm gone , Rad , you get out the Butterfly . 
I can make the trip in that . 
Kurtz had a 'phone I could get him , but he lives over on the back road , where there isn't a line . 
Tom found his father in no immediate danger , but Mr. Swift had had a slight recurrence of his heart trouble , and it was thought best to have a doctor . 
So Tom started off in his air craft , rising swiftly above the housetop , and sailed off toward the old fashioned residence of Dr . 
Kurtz , a sturdy , elderly German physician , who sometimes attended Mr. Swift . 
Tom decided that as long as Dr . 
My , this Butterfly seems big and clumsy beside my Humming Bird , mused Tom as he slid along through the air , now flying high and now low , merely for practice . 
Won't you ride back with me in the monoplane ? asked Tom . 
I'm anxious to have you see dad as soon as you can . 
Vot ! Me drust mineself in one ob dem airships ? I dinks not ! exclaimed Dr . 
Dot vill not drop me to der ground , or run me up a tree , yet ! Vot ? Very well , said Tom , only hurry , please . 
The young inventor , in his airship , reached home some time before the slow going doctor got there in his carriage . 
Mr. Swift was no worse , Tom was glad to find , though he was evidently quite ill . 
So , ve must take goot care of him , said the doctor , when he had examined the patient . 
Gladby he has done much for him , und I can do little more . 
I haven't worked much , replied the aged inventor . 
I have only been helping my son on a new airship . 
Den dot must stop , insisted the doctor . 
You must haf gomplete rest dot's it gomplete rest . 
We'll do just as you say , doctor , said Tom . 
We'll cut it all out . 
Dot vould he goot , said Dr . 
No , I couldn't think of it , answered Mr. Swift . 
I want you to go in that race , Tom and win ! But I'll not do it , dad , if you're going to be ill . 
He is ill now , interrupted the doctor . 
Very ill , Dom Swift . 
I don't go in the race . 
You and I'll go away , dad to California , or up in Canada . 
We'll travel for your health . 
No ! no ! insisted the old inventor gently . 
I will be all right . 
Most of the work on the monoplane is done now , isn't it , Tom ? Yes , dad . 
Then you go on , and finish it . 
You and Mr. Jackson can do it without me now . 
I must forbid you to do any more . 
Mit Dom , dot is different . 
He is young und strong , und he can vork . 
But you not , Herr Swift , or I doctor you no more . 
And the physician shook his big head . 
I'll agree to that if Tom will promise to enter the race , said the inventor . 
I will , said Tom . 
The physician took his leave shortly after that , the medicine he gave to Mr. Swift somewhat relieving him . 
Then the young inventor , who felt in a little better spirits , went back to his workshop . 
Poor dad , he mused . 
He thinks more of me and this aeroplane than he does of himself . 
Well , I will go in the race , and I'll yes , I'll win ! And Tom looked very determined . 
He was about to resume work on his craft when something about the way one of the forward planes was tilted attracted his attention . 
I never left it that way , mused Tom . 
Some one has been in here . 
I wonder if it was Mr. Jackson ? Tom stepped to the door and called for Eradicate . 
The colored man came from the direction of the garden , which he was still weeding . 
Has Mr. Jackson been around , Rad ? asked the lad . 
Have you been in here , looking at the Humming Bird ? No , Massa Tom . 
I nebber goes in dere , lessen as how yo' is dere . 
I might have known you wouldn't go in . 
But did you see any one enter the shop ? Not a pusson , sab . 
Have you been here all the while ? All but jes' a few minutes , when I went to de barn to put some liniment on Boomerang's So' foot . 
H'm ! Some one might have slipped in here while I was away , mused Tom . 
I ought to have locked the doors , but I was in a hurry . 
This thing is getting on my nerves . 
It looks as if they were trying to see how it was fastened on , and how it worked , mused Tom . 
But my plans haven't been touched , and no damage has been done . 
Only I don't like to think that people have been in here . 
They may have stolen some of my ideas . 
I must keep this place locked night and day after this . 
Tom spent a busy week in making improvements on his craft . 
Mr. Swift was doing well , and after a consultation by Dr . 
Gladby it was decided to adopt a new style of treatment . 
In the meanwhile , Mr. Swift kept his promise , and did no work . 
He sat in his easy chair , out in the garden , and dozed away , while Tom visited him frequently to see if he needed anything . 
Poor old dad ! mused the young inventor . 
And he gazed with pride on the Humming Bird . 
For the past two weeks Tom had seen nothing of Andy Foger . 
The red haired bully seemed to have dropped out of sight , and even his cronies , Sam Snedecker and Pete Bailey , did not know where he had gone . 
I hope he has gone for good , said Ned Newton , who lived near Andy . 
I wish he'd never come back to Shopton . 
But Andy was destined to come back . 
One day , when Tom was busy installing a wireless apparatus on his new aeroplane , he heard Eradicate hurrying up the path that led to the shop . 
I wonder if dad is worse ? thought Tom , that always being his first idea when he knew a summons was coming for him . 
Quickly be opened the door . 
Some one's comin' out to see you , Massa Tom , said the colored man . 
Who is it ? asked the lad , taking the precaution to put his precious plans out of sight . 
I dunno , sah but yo' father knows him , an' he said fo' me to come out heah , ahead ob de gen'man , an' tell yo' he were comin' . 
Oh , well , if dad knows him , it's all right . 
Let him come , Rad . 
And the colored man pointed to a figure advancing down the gravel path . 
Tom watched the stranger curiously . 
There was something familiar about him , and Tom was sure he had met him before , yet he could not seem to place him . 
How are you , Tom Swift ? greeted the newcomer pleasantly . 
I guess you've forgotten me , haven't you ? He held out his hand , which Tom took . 
Don't know me , do you ? he went on . 
Well , I'm afraid I've forgotten your name , admitted the lad , just a bit embarrassed . 
But your face is familiar , somehow , and yet it isn't I've shaved off my mustache , went on the other . 
I'm real glad to see you . 
What are you doing around here ? Come in . 
I've got something to show you , and he motioned to the shop where the Humming Bird was housed . 
Oh , I know what it is , said the veteran balloonist . 
In fact , I came to see you about it . 
To see me about it ? Yes . 
I'm one of the committee of arrangements for the meet to be held at Eagle Park , where I understand you are going to contest . 
I came to see how near you were ready , and to get you to make a formal entry of your machine . 
Oh , so you're in with them now , eh ? asked Tom . 
Well , I'm glad to know I've got a friend on the committee . 
Yes , my machine is getting along very well . 
I'll soon be ready for a trial flight . 
Come in and look at it . 
I think it's a bird a regular Humming Bird ! And Tom laughed . 
It certainly is something new , admitted Mr. Sharp as his eyes took in the details of the trim little craft . 
By the way , Shopton is going to be well represented at the meet . 
How is that ? I thought I was the only one around here to enter an aeroplane . 
No. We have just received an entry from Andy Foger . 
From Andy Foger ! gasped Tom . 
Is he going to try to win some of the prizes ? He's entered for the big one , the ten thousand dollar prize , replied the balloonist . 
He has made formal application to be allowed to compete , and we have to accept any one who applies . 
Why , do you object to him , Tom ? Object to him ? Mr. Sharp , let me tell you something . 
Some time ago a set of plans of my machine here were stolen from my house . 
I suspected Andy Foger of taking them , but I could get no proof . 
Now you say he is building a machine to compete for the big prize . 
Do you happen to know what style it is ? It's a small monoplane , something like the Antoinette , his application states , though he may change it later . 
Though the young inventor had all along suspected Andy of having the missing plans , yet there had been no positive evidence on this point . 
Do you really think that's his game ? asked Mr. Sharp . 
I'm sure of it , replied the youth . 
Though where he is building his aeroplane I can't imagine , for I haven't seen him in town . 
Are you sure of that ? Well , not absolutely sure , replied Tom . 
It's the general rumor that he's out of town . 
Well , old General Rumor is sometimes a person not to be relied upon , remarked the balloonist grimly . 
I'm a member of the arrangements committee , and so I know . 
I also know that you and several others are going to try for the prize . 
That's all I am absolutely sure of . 
Now , when you tell me about the missing plans , and you conclude that Andy is doing some underhanded work , I agree with you . 
But I go a step farther . 
I don't believe he's out of town at all . 
Why not ? exclaimed Tom . 
Well , what everybody says is generally not So . 
I think you'll find that Andy is keeping himself in seclusion , and that he's working secretly in his ship , building a machine with which to beat you . 
Do you , really ? I certainly do . 
Have you been around his place lately ? No. I've been too busy and then I never have much to do with him . 
Then take my advice , and see if you can't get a look inside that shop . 
You may see something that will surprise you . 
If you find that Andy is infringing on your patented ideas , you can stop him by an injunction . 
You've got this model patented , I take it ? Oh , yes . 
I didn't have at the time the plans were stolen , but I've patented it since . 
I could get at him that way . 
Then take my advice , and do it . 
Get a look inside that shed , and you'll find Andy working secretly there , no matter if his cronies do think he's out of town . 
I believe I will , agreed Tom , and somehow he felt better now that he had decided on a plan of action . 
Well , now that's settled , said Mr. Sharp , tell me more about yourself and your aeroplane . 
My ! To think that the Red Cloud was destroyed ! That was a fine craft . 
Indeed she was , agreed Tom . 
I'm going to make another on similar lines , some day , but now all my time is occupied with the Humming Bird . 
She is a hummer , too , complimented Mr. Sharp . 
But I almost forgot the real object of my trip here . 
There is no doubt about you going in the race , is there ? I fully expect to , replied Tom . 
The only thing that will prevent me will be Don't say you're worried on account of what Andy Foger may do , interrupted Mr. Sharp . 
I'll attend to Andy , all right . 
I was going to say that my father's illness might interfere . 
He's not well at all . 
I'm quite worried about him . 
Oh , I sincerely hope he'll be all right , remarked the balloonist . 
We want you in this race . 
In fact , we're going to feature you , as they say about the actors and story writers . 
The committee is planning to do considerable advertising on the strength of Tom Swift , the well known young inventor , being a contestant for the ten thousand dollar prize . 
That's very nice , I'm sure , replied Tom , and I'm going to do my best . 
Perhaps dad will take a turn for the better . 
He wants me to win as much as I want to myself . 
Well , we'll not worry about it , anyhow , until the time comes . 
I want to show you some new features of my . 
And I want to see them , Tom . 
Yes , but you see I have a very light engine . 
That part my father helped me with . 
I may need to signal when I am flying along at a hundred miles an hour . 
Well , show me some of the other good points . 
You've certainly got a wonderful craft here . 
Tom and Mr. Sharp spent some time going over the Humming Bird and in talking over old times . 
The balloonist paid another visit to Mr. Swift , who was feeling pretty good , and who expressed his pleasure in seeing his old friend again . 
Can't you stay for a few days ? asked Tom , when Mr. Sharp was about to leave . 
If you wait long enough you may be able to help me work up the clues against Andy Foger , and also witness a trial flight of the Humming Bird . 
I'd like to stay , but I can't , was the answer . 
The committee will be anxious for me to get back with my report . 
I'll see you at the time of the race , if not before . 
Then followed several days , during which time it was necessary to do some important work on his craft , and so a week passed without any information having been obtained . 
In the meanwhile Tom had made some cautious inquiries , but had learned nothing about Andy . 
He had no chance to interview Pete or Sam , the two cronies , and he did not think it wise to make a bald request for information at the Foger home . 
Ned Newton could not be of any aid to his friend , as he was kept busy in the bank night and day , working over a new set of books . 
I wonder how I can find out what I want to know ? mused Tom one afternoon , when he had done considerable work on the Humming Bird . 
I certainly ought to do it soon , so as to be able to stop Andy if he's infringing on my patents . 
Yet , I don't see how His thoughts were interrupted by hearing a voice outside the shop , exclaiming Bless my toothpick ! I know the way , Eradicate , my good fellow . 
It isn't necessary for you to come . 
As long as Tom Swift is out there , I'll find him . 
Bless my horizontal rudder ! I'm anxious to see what progress he's made . 
I'll find him , if he's about ! Yes , sah , he's right in dere , spoke the colored man . 
He's workin' on dat Dragon Fly of his . 
Eradicate did not always get his names right . 
Mr. Damon ! exclaimed Tom in delight , at the sound of his friend's voice . 
I believe he can help me get evidence against Andy Foger . 
Where are you ? Here ! called the young inventor . 
Bless my parachute , Tom ! But it looks as though you could blow it over . 
It's stronger than it seems , replied the lad . 
But , Mr. Damon , I've got something very important to talk to you about . 
Thereupon Tom told all about Mr. Sharp's visit , of Andy's entry in the big race , and of the suspicions of himself and the balloonist . 
And what is it you wish me to do ? asked Mr. Damon . 
Work up some clues against Andy Foger . 
Good ! I'll do it ! I'd like to get ahead of that bully and his father , who once tried to wreck the bank I'm interested in . 
I'll help you , Tom ! I'll play detective ! Let me see what disguise shall I assume ? I think I'll take the part of a tramp . 
Bless my ham sandwich ! That will be the very thing . 
I'll get some ragged clothes , let my beard grow again you see I shaved it off since my last visit and I'll go around to the Foger place and ask for work . 
Then I can get inside the shed and look around . 
How's that for a plan ? It might be all right , agreed Tom , only I don't believe you're cut out for the part of a tramp , Mr. Damon . 
Bless my fingernails ! Why not ? Oh , well , it isn't very pleasant to go around in ragged clothes . 
And the odd gentleman seemed quite delighted at the idea . 
Couldn't you go around after evidence just as you are ? asked the aged inventor . 
I don't much care for this disguising business . 
Oh , it's very necessary , insisted Mr. Damon earnestly . 
Bless my gizzard ! but it's very necessary . 
Why , if I went around the Foger place as I am now , they'd know me in a minute , and I couldn't find out what I want to know . 
Well , if you keep on blessing yourself , said Tom , with a laugh , they'll know you , no matter what disguise you put on , Mr. Damon . 
That's so , admitted the eccentric gentleman . 
I must break myself of that habit . 
Bless my topknot ! I'll never do it any more . 
Bless my trousers buttons ! I'm afraid you'll never do it ! exclaimed Tom . 
It is rather hard , said Mr. Damon ruefully , as he realized what he had said . 
Bless He paused a moment , looked at Tom and his father , and then burst into a laugh . 
The habit was more firmly fastened on him than he was aware . 
Then , if that doesn't work , I'll become a tramp , was the decision of the odd character . 
I'll wear the raggedest clothes I can find Bless But he stopped in time . 
It's no use , though , declared Mr. Damon at the end of the week . 
I can't get anywhere near that shed , nor even get a glimpse inside of it . 
I haven't been able to learn anything , either' . 
There are two gardeners on guard all the while , and several times when I've tried to go in the side gate , they've stopped me . 
Isn't there any news of Andy about town ? asked Tom . 
I should think Sam or Pete would know where he is . 
If Andy Foger is working in that shed of his , he's keeping mighty quiet about it . 
Bless my And once more he stopped in time . 
He was conquering the habit in a measure . 
Well , what do you propose to do next ? asked Tom . 
Disguise myself like a tramp , and go there looking for work , was the firm answer . 
There are plenty of odd jobs on a big place such as the Foger family have . 
I'll find out what I want to know , you see . 
It seemed useless to further combat this resolution , and , in a few days Mr. Damon presented a very different appearance . 
Now I'm all ready , he said to Tom one day , when his disguise was complete . 
I'm going over and try my luck . 
He left the house by a side door , so that no one would see him , and started down the walk . 
I does all de wuk , me an' mah mule Boomerang , an' we takes all de cold victuals , too ! Git right along , now ! It's Eradicate . 
He doesn't know you , said Tom , with a chuckle . 
So much the better , whispered Mr. Damon . 
But the disguise proved almost too much of a success , for seeing the supposed tramp lingering near the house , Eradicate caught up a stout stick and rushed forward . 
He sought consolation in the stable with his mule . 
Well , he asked eagerly , what luck ? Put on a suit of old clothes , and come with me , said Mr. Damon . 
We'll look like two tramps , and then , if we're discovered , they won't know it was you . 
Have you found out anything ? asked Tom eagerly . 
A key ? How did you get it ? inquired the youth . 
Never mind , was the answer , with a chuckle . 
That was because of my disguise and I haven't blessed anything to day . 
I'm going to , soon , though . 
I can feel it coming on . 
But hurry , Tom , or we may be too late . 
And you haven't had a look inside the shed ? asked the young inventor . 
You don't know what's there ? No but we soon will . 
Eagerly Tom put on tome of the oldest and most ragged garments he could find , and then he and the odd gentleman set off toward the Foger home . 
They waited some time after getting in sight of it , because they saw a light in one of the windows . 
Then , when the house was dark , they stole cautiously forward toward the big , gloomy shed . 
On this side , directed Mr. Damon in a whisper . 
The key I have opens this door . 
But we can't see when we get inside , objected Tom . 
I should have brought a dark lantern . 
I have one of those pocket electric flashlights , said Mr. Damon . 
Bless my candlestick ! but I thought of that . 
Cautiously they advanced in the darkness . 
Mr. Damon fumbled at the lock of the door . 
The key grated as he turned it . 
The portal swung back , and Tom and his friend found themselves inside the shed which , of late , had been such an object of worry and conjecture to the young inventor . 
What would he find there ? Flash the light , he called to Mr. Damon in a hoarse whisper . 
The eccentric man drew it from his packet He pressed the spring switch , and in an instant a brilliant shaft of radiance shot out , cutting the intense blackness like a knife . 
Mr. Damon flashed it on all sides . 
Up and down , to right and left , shot the pencil of light . 
Chapter Nine A Trial Flight For a few moments after their exclamations of surprise Tom and Mr. Damon did not know what else to say . 
They stared about in amazement , hardly able to believe that the shed could be empty . 
They had expected to see some form of aeroplane in it , and Tom was almost sure his eyes would meet a reproduction of his Humming Bird , made from the stolen plans . 
Can it be possible there's nothing here ? went on Tom , after a long pause . 
He could not seem to believe it Evidently not , answered Mr. Damon , as he advanced toward the center of the big building and flashed the light on all sides . 
You can see for yourself . 
Or , rather , you can't see , spoke the youth . 
It isn't here , that's sure . 
You can't stick an aeroplane , even as small a one as my Humming Bird , in a corner . 
No it isn't here , Well , we'll have to look further , went on Mr. Damon . 
I think But a sudden noise near the big main doors of the shed interrupted him . 
Come on ! exclaimed Tom in a whisper . 
Some one's coining ! They may see us ! Let's get out ! Mr. Damon released the pressure on the spring switch , and the light went out . 
After waiting a moment to let their eyes become accustomed to the darkness , he and Tom stole to the door by which they had entered . 
Some one is coming in ! whispered Tom . 
Hardly had he spoken when a light shone in the direction of the sound . 
The illumination came from a big lantern of the ordinary kind , carried by some one who had just entered the shed . 
Can you see who it is ? whispered Mr. Damon , peering eagerly forward too eagerly , for his foot struck against the wooden side wall with a loud hang . 
Who's there ? suddenly demanded the person carrying the lantern . 
He raised it high above his head , in order to cast the gleams into all the distant corners . 
As he did so a ray of light fell upon his face . 
Andy Foger ! gasped Tom in a hoarse whisper . 
Andy must have heard , for he ran forward just as Tom and Mr. Damon slipped out . 
Hold on ! Who are you ? came in the unmistakable tones of the red haired bully . 
I don't think we're going to tell , chuckled Tom softly , as he and his friend sped off into the darkness . 
They were not followed , and as they looked back they could see a light bobbing about in the shed . 
He's looking for us ! exclaimed Mr. Damon with an inward laugh . 
Bless my watch chain ! But it's a good thing we got in ahead of him . 
Are you sure it was Andy himself ? Sure ! I'd know his face anywhere . 
But I can't understand it . 
Where has he been ? What is he doing ? Where is he building his aeroplane ? I thought he was out of town . 
He may have come back to night , said Mr. Damon . 
That's the only one of your questions I can answer . 
He must have just come back , and he went out to his shed to get something . 
Well , we did the best we could . 
Indeed we did , agreed Tom , and I'm ever so much obliged to you , Mr. Damon . 
And we'll try again , when we get more clues . 
Bless my shoelaces ! but it's a relief to be able to talk as you like . 
The two reached home safely , removed their disguises , and told Mr. Swift of the result of their trip . 
He agreed with them that there was a mystery about Andy's aeroplane which was yet to be solved . 
Mr. Jackson was a valuable assistant , and Mr. Damon gave what aid he could . 
Shall you want a passenger ? asked Mr. Damon . 
Yes , I wish you would take a chance with me . 
Yes , we'll make a trial trip together . 
In the following few days Tom went carefully over the aeroplane , making some slight changes , strengthening it here and there , and testing the motor thoroughly . 
It seemed to work perfectly . 
At length the day of the trial came , and the Humming Bird was wheeled out of the shed . 
In spite of the fact that it was practically finished , there yet remained much to do on it . 
It was not painted or decorated , and looked rather crude . 
But what Tom wanted to know was how it would fly , what control he had over it , what speed it could make , and how it balanced . 
For it was , at best , very frail , and the least change in equilibrium might be fatal . 
Before taking his place in the operator's seat Tom started the motor , and by means of a spring balance tested the thrust of the propellers . 
It was satisfactory , though he knew that when the engine had been run for some time , and had warmed up , it would do much better . 
All ready , I guess , Mr. Damon ! he called , and the odd gentleman took his place . 
Tom got up into his own seat , in front of several wheels and levers by which he operated the craft . 
Start the propeller ! he requested of Mr. Jackson , and soon the motor was spitting fire , while the big , fanlike blades were whirring around like wings of light . 
The engineer and Eradicate were holding back the Humming Bird . 
Let her go ! cried Tom as he turned on more gasoline and further advanced the spark of the motor . 
Higher and higher it rose above the ground . 
Now it topped the trees now it was well over them . 
On the earth below stood Mr. Swift , Mr. Jack son , Eradicate and Mrs. Baggert . 
They were the only witnesses of the trial flight , and as the aged inventor saw his son's latest design in aeroplanes circling in the air he gave a cheer of delight . 
It was too feeble for Tom to hear , but the lad , glancing down , saw his father waving his hand to him . 
Dear old dad ! thought Tom , waving in return . 
I hope he's well enough to see me win the big prize . 
This is glorious ! cried the odd gentleman . 
I never shall have enough of aeroplaning , Tom ! Nor I , either , added his companion . 
But how do you like it ? Don't you think it's an improvement on my Butterfly , Mr. Damon ? It certainly is . 
You're a wonder , Tom ! Look out ! What are you up to ? for the machine had suddenly swerved in a startling manner . 
Oh , that's just a new kind of spiral dip I was trying , answered Tom . 
I couldn't do that with my other machine , for I couldn't turn sharp enough . 
So he circled around , did figures of eight , went up and down on long slants , took sharp turns , and gave the craft a good tryout . 
Does it satisfy you ? asked Mr. Damon , when Tom had once more made the spiral dip , but not at high speed . 
In a way , yes , was the answer . 
I see a chance for several changes and improvements . 
I don't yet know that I have done it . 
When will you ? Oh , when I make some changes , get the motor tuned up better , and let her out for all she's worth . 
I want to do a hundred miles an hour , at least . 
I'll arrange for a speedy flight in about two weeks more . 
Then I think I will stay home , said Mr. Damon . 
No I'll need you , insisted Tom , laughing . 
I'm going to let her out just a little . 
He did , with the result that they skimmed through the air so fast that Mr. Damon's breath became a mere series of gasps . 
We'll have to wear goggles and mouth protectors when we really go fast ! yelled Tom above the noise of the motor , as he slowed down and turned about for home . 
Go fast ! Wasn't that fast ? asked Mr. Damon . 
You wait , and you'll see , he announced . 
They made a good landing , and Mr. Swift hastened up to congratulate his son . 
I knew you could do it , Tom ! he cried . 
I couldn't , though , if it hadn't been for that wonderful engine of yours , dad ! How do you feel ? Pretty good . 
Oh ! but that's a fine machine , Tom ! It certainly is , agreed Mr. Jackson . 
It will be when I have it in better trim , admitted the young inventor modestly . 
Yes , sah , dat's what he will be proud ob yo' , Massa Tom ! Thanks , Rad . 
Well , some folks is satisfied with mighty little under 'em , when they go up in the air , that's my opinion , said Mrs. Baggert . 
Why , wouldn't you ride in this ? asked Tom of the buxom housekeeper . 
Not if you was to give me ten thousand dollars ! she cried firmly . 
Oh , dear ! I think the potatoes are burning ! And she rushed back into the house . 
The next day Tom started to work overhauling the Humming Bird , and making some changes . 
He altered the wing tips slightly , and adjusted the motor , until in a thrust test it developed nearly half again as much power as formerly . 
And I'll need it all , declared Tom as he thought of the number of contestants that had entered the great race . 
For the Eagle Park meet was to be a large and important one , and the principal bird men of the world were to have a part in it . 
Tom knew that he must do his very best , and he spared no efforts to make his monoplane come up to his ideal , which was a very exacting one . 
We'll have a real speed test to morrow , Tom announced to Mr. Damon one night . 
I'll see what the Humming Bird can really do . 
You'll come , won't you ? Oh , I suppose so . 
Bless my insurance policy ! I might as well take the same chance you do . 
But if you're going to have such a nerve racking thing as that on the program , you'd better get to bed early and have plenty of sleep . 
Oh , I'm not tired . 
I think I'll go out this evening . 
Where ? Oh , just around town , to see some of the fellows . 
How long he had been asleep Tom did not know , but he was suddenly awakened by hearing the buzzing of the alarm at the head of his bed . 
Then , with a start , he realized what it was the burglar alarm . 
Some one's in the shed ! he gasped . 
Out of bed he leaped , drawing on his trousers and coat , and putting on a pair of slippers , with speed worthy of a fireman . 
He grabbed up a revolver and rushed from his room , pounding on the door of Mr. Jackson's apartment in passing . 
Some one in the shed , after the Humming Bird ! shouted Tom . 
What's the matter ? What is it ? asked Mr. Swift , and alarm showed on his pale face . 
It's nothing much , dad , said the youth , as quietly as he could , for he realized that to excite his father might have a bad effect on the invalid . 
Then why are you in such a hurry ? Why have you that revolver ? I know there is something wrong , Tom . 
I am going to help you ! In his father's present weakened state Tom desired this least of all , so he said Now , never mind , dad . 
I thought I heard a noise out in the yard , and I'm not going to take any chances . 
So I roused Mr. Jackson , and I'm going down to see what it is . 
Perhaps it may only be Eradicate's mule , Boomerang , kicking around , or it may be Rad himself , or some one after his chickens . 
Mr. Jackson and I can attend to it . 
You go back to bed , father . 
Tom spoke with such assurance that Mr. Swift believed him , and retired to his room , just as the engineer , partly dressed , came hurrying out in response to Tom's summons . 
He had his rifle , and , bad the invalid inventor seen that , he surely would have worried more . 
Come on ! whispered Tom . 
I don't want to excite my father . 
What was it ? asked the engineer . 
Burglar alarm went off , that's all I can say until we get to the shed . 
Together the two left the house softly , and soon were hurrying toward the aeroplane shed . 
Look ! exclaimed Mr. Jackson . 
Andy is a pretty slippery customer . 
Say , Mr. Jackson , you go around and get Eradicate , and have him bring a club . 
We can't trust him with a gun . 
Tell him to get at the back door , and I'll wait for you to join me , and we'll go in the front door . 
Then we'll have 'em between two fires . 
How about the windows ? They're high up , and hard to open since I put the new catches on them . 
Whoever got in must have forced the lock of the door . 
There goes the light again ! As Tom spoke there was seen the faint glimmer of a light . 
It moved slowly about the interior of the shed , and with a peculiar bobbing motion , which indicated that some one was carrying it . 
Mr. Jackson slipped off in the darkness , and Tom drew nearer to the building that housed his Humming Bird . 
There was one window lower than the others , and near it was a box , that Tom remembered having seen that afternoon . 
He planned to get up on that and look in , before making a raid to capture the intruder . 
Tom raised himself up to the window . 
The light had been visible a moment before he placed the box in position , but an instant later it seemed to go out , and the place was in darkness . 
I wonder if they've gone away ? thought Tom . 
I can't hear any noise . 
It was dark and silent in the shop . 
Suddenly the light flashed up brighter than before , and the young inventor caught sight of a man walking around the new aeroplane , examining it carefully . 
He carried , as Tom could see , a large sized electric flash lamp , with a brilliant tungsten filament , which gave a powerful light . 
As the youth watched , he saw the intruder place the light on a bench , in such a position that the rays fell full upon the Humming Bird . 
Then , adjusting the spring switch so that the light would continue to glow , the man stepped back and drew something from an inner pocket . 
I wonder what he's up to ? mused Tom . 
I wish Eradicate and Mr. Jackson would hurry back . 
Who can that fellow be , I wonder ? I've never seen him before , as far as I know . 
I thought sure it was going to turn out to be Andy Foger ! Tom turned around to look into the dark yard surrounding the shed . 
He was anxious to hear the approach of his two allies , but there was no sound of their footsteps . 
He did not intend to shoot at the man , but only to fire to scare him , and thus hasten the coming of Mr. Jackson and the colored man . 
But there was no need of this , for an instant later the two came running up silently , Eradicate with a big club . 
Whar am he ? he asked in a hoarse whisper . 
Let me git at him , Massa Tom ! Hush ! exclaimed the young inventor . 
I won't ! declared the colored man emphatically , and he shook his club suggestively . 
Come on ! We'll go in the front door , whispered Tom to the engineer . 
We'll catch him red handed , and hand him over to the police . 
Waiting a few seconds , to enable Eradicate to get to his place , Tom and the engineer stole softly toward the big double doors . 
Every moment the youth expected to hear the crash of the hatchet on his prize machine . 
He shivered in anticipation , but the blows did not fall . 
Tom pushed open the door and stepped inside , followed by Mr. Jackson . 
As they did so they saw the man standing in front of the Humming Bird . 
He again raised the little hatchet , which was like an Indian tomahawk , and poised it for an instant over the delicate framework and planes of the air craft . 
Then his arm began to descend . 
Stop ! yelled Tom , and at the same time he fired in the air . 
Look out , Tom ! cried Mr. Jackson . 
Out of my way ! shouted the man . 
Bravely Tom stood his ground . 
He wished now that he had a club instead of his revolver . 
The would be vandal was almost upon him . 
Mr. Jackson clubbed his rifle and swung it at the fellow . 
The latter dodged , and came straight at Tom . 
Look out ! yelled the engineer again , but it was too late . 
There was the sound of a blow , and Tom went down like a log . 
Then the place was in darkness , and the sound of footsteps in rapid flight could be heard outside the shed . 
The intruder , after wounding the young inventor , had made his escape . 
Chapter Twelve Miss Nestor Calls What's de mattah ? Shall I come in ? Am anybody hurted ? yelled Eradicate Sampson as he pounded on the rear door of the aeroplane shed . 
Let me in , Massa Tom ! All right ! Wait a minute ! I'm coming ! called Mr. Jackson . 
He tried to peer through the darkness , to where a huddled heap indicated the presence of Tom . 
Tom , are you badly hurt ? gasped Mr. jackson . 
There was no answer , for Tom was unconscious . 
Let me in ! Let me git at dat robber wif mah club ! cried the colored man eagerly . 
Knowing that he would need help in carrying Tom to the house , Mr. Jackson hurried to the back door . 
He had a key to it , and it was quicker to open it than to send Eradicate away around the shed to the front portals . 
Whar am he ? gasped the faithful darky , as he took a firmer grasp of his club and looked around the place . 
Let me git mah hands on him ! I'll feed him t' Boomerang , when I gits froo wif him ! He's gone , said the engineer . 
Help me look after Tom . 
I'm afraid he's badly hurt . 
They hastened to the unconscious lad . 
On one side of his head was a bad cut , which was bleeding freely . 
Oh ! he's daid ! I know he's daid ! wailed Eradicate . 
Not a bit of it . 
He isn't dead , but he may die , if we don't get him into the house , and have a doctor here soon , said Mr. Jackson sternly . 
Catch hold of him , Rad , and , mind , don't carry on , and get excited , and scare Mr. Swift . 
Just pretend it isn't very bad , or we'll have two patents on our hands instead of only Tom . 
They managed to get the youth into the house , and , contrary to their fears , Mr. Swift was not nearly so nervous as they had expected . 
Calmly he took charge of matters , and even telephoned for Dr . 
Gladby himself , while Mr. Jackson and Eradicate undressed Tom and got him to bed . 
Mrs. Baggert busied herself heating water and getting things in readiness for the doctor , who had promised to come at once . 
Tom was just regaining consciousness when the physician came in , having driven over at top speed . 
What what happened ? Did the Humming Bird fall ? asked Tom in a whisper , putting his hand to his head . 
No , something fell on you , I guess , said the doctor , who had been hurriedly told of the circumstances . 
But don't worry , Tom . 
You'll be all right in a few days . 
You got a bad cut on the head , but the skull isn't fractured , I'm glad to say . 
Here , now , just drink this , and he gave Tom some medicine he had mixed in a glass . 
The cut was soon dressed , and Tom felt much better , though weak and a trifle dizzy . 
Did he hit me with the hatchet ? he asked Mr. Jackson . 
I couldn't tell , was the engineer's reply , it all happened so quickly . 
In another instant I'd have bowled him over , instead of him landing on you , but I just missed him . 
He either used the hatchet , or some blunt instrument . 
Well , don't talk about it now , urged the doctor . 
I want Tom to get quiet and go to sleep . 
We'll be much better in the morning , but I must forbid any aeroplane flights . 
And he shook his finger at Tom in warning . 
You'll have to lie quiet for several days , he added . 
All right , agreed the young inventor weakly , and then he dozed off , for the physician had given him a quieting medicine . 
Haven't you any idea who it was ? asked Dr . 
Gladby of Mr. Jackson , as he prepared to leave . 
It was no one Tom or I had ever seen before . 
But whoever it was , he intended to destroy the Humming Bird , that was evident ! The scoundrel ! I'm glad you foiled him in time but it's too bad about Tom . 
However , we'll soon have him all right again . 
I knows who done it ! broke in Eradicate , who was a sort of privileged character about the Swift home . 
Who ? asked Mr. Jackson . 
It were dat Andy Foger . 
Leastways , he send dat man heah t' make mincemeat oh de Hummin' Bird . 
I's positib 'bout dat , so I am ! And Eradicate grinned triumphantly . 
Afraid that Tom will beat him in the race , suggested Mr. Jackson . 
It's too big a risk to take , went on the aged inventor . 
I'm inclined to think it might be one of the gang of men who made the diamonds in the cave in the mountains . 
They might have sent a spy on East , and he might try to damage the aeroplane to be revenged for what Tom and Mr. Jenks did to them . 
It's possible , agreed the engineer . 
Well , we'll wait until Tom can talk , and we'll go over it with him . 
Not until he is stronger , though , stipulated the physician as he went away . 
Don't excite Tom for a few days . 
The young inventor was much better the following day , and when Dr . 
Gladby called he said Tom could sit up for a little while . 
Two days later Tom was well enough to he talked to , and his father and Mr. Jackson went over all the details of the matter . 
Mr. Damon , who had returned home , came to see his friend as soon as he heard of his plight , and was also a member of the consulting party . 
Bless my dictionary ! exclaimed the eccentric man . 
I wish I had been here to take a hand in it . 
But , Tom , do you believe it was one of the diamond making gang ? I hardly think so , was the reply . 
They would take some other means of revenge than by destroying my new aeroplane . 
I'm inclined to think it was some one who is in with Andy Foger . 
Then we'll hire detectives , and locate him and them , declared Mr. Damon , blessing several things in succession . 
Tom , however , did not like that plan , and it was decided to do nothing right away . 
In another few days Tom was able to be up , though he was still a semi invalid , not venturing out of the house . 
Is it Mr. Damon ? No , it's a lady . 
She Oh , Tom ! How are you ? cried a girlish voice , and Mary Nestor walked into the room , holding out both hands to the young inventor . 
Tom , with a blush , arose hastily . 
No ! no ! Sit still ! commanded the girl . 
Oh ! I'm so sorry to hear about your accident ! In fact , I only heard this morning . 
We've been away , mamma and I , and we just got back . 
Tell me all about it , that is , if you feel able . 
I wish you did , too ! exclaimed Tom . 
That is , so you could hold him until I had a chance at him . 
But I'm all right now . 
It was very good of you to call . 
How are you , and how are your folks ? Very well . 
But I came to hear about you . 
Tell me , and she looked anxiously at Tom , while Mrs. Baggert discreetly withdrew to the adjoining room , and made a great noise , rattling papers and moving chairs about . 
Thereupon Tom told what had happened , while Mary Nestor listened interestedly and with expressions of fear at times . 
But if Andy had anything to do with it , concluded Tom , I can't understand what his object is . 
Andy is acting very strangely lately . 
We can't locate him , nor find out where he is building his airship . 
That's what I want to know but Mr. Damon and I , after a lot of trouble , only found his aeroplane shed empty . 
And you want to find out where Andy Foger is building his aeroplane which he has entered in the big race ? asked Miss Nestor . 
That's what I'd like to know , declared Tom earnestly . 
Only we can't seem to do it . 
Why don't you write to Mr. Sharp , or some one of the aviation meet committee ? asked the girl simply . 
They would know , for you say Andy made his formal entry with them , and the rules require him to tell from what city and State he will enter his craft . 
Write to the committee , Tom . 
For a moment the young inventor stared at her . 
Then he banged his fist down on the arm of his chair . 
By Jove , Mary ! That's the very thing ! he cried . 
I guess that's it , agreed Tom . 
It takes a woman to jump across a bridge to a conclusion every time . 
I'll write to Mr. Sharp at once . 
Chapter Thirteen A Clash with Andy Tom lost no time in writing to Mr. Sharp . 
He wondered more and more at his own neglect in not before having asked the balloonist , when the latter was in Shopton , where Andy was building his aeroplane . 
But , as it developed later , Mr. Sharp did not know at that time . 
While waiting for a reply to his letter , Tom busied himself about his own craft , making several changes he had decided on . 
He also began to paint and decorate it , for he wanted to have the Humming Bird present a neat appearance when she was officially entered in the great race . 
Miss Nestor called on Tom again , and Mr. Damon was a frequent visitor . 
He agreed to accompany Tom to the aviation park when it was time for the race , and also to be a passenger in the ten thousand dollar contest . 
I consider it perfectly marvelous , and I can't imagine how it must seem to skim along that way . 
Come and try it , urged Tom suddenly . 
There's not a bit of danger . 
Oh ! I'd never dare do it ! replied the girl , with a gasp . 
That machine is too swift by name and swift by nature for me . 
Why don't you take Miss Nestor on a grass cutting flight , Tom ? suggested Mr. Damon . 
Bless my lawn mower ! but she wouldn't be frightened at that . 
Grass cutting ? repeated the girl . 
In spite of many inquiries , no clues to his identity had been obtained . 
How high do you go when you 'cut grass , as you call it ? asked Miss Nestor , and Tom thought he detected a note of eager curiosity in her voice . 
Not high at all , he said . 
In fact , sometimes I do cut off the tops of tall daisies . 
Come , Mary ! Won't you try that ? I know you'll like it , and when you've been over the lawn a few times you'll be ready for a high flight . 
Come ! there's no danger . 
I I almost believe I will , she said hesitatingly . 
Will you take me down when I want to come ? Of course , said Tom . 
Get in , and we'll start . 
The Humming Bird was all ready for a trial flight , and Tom was glad of the chance to test it , especially with such a pretty passenger as was Miss Nestor . 
Bless my shoelaces ! cried Mr. Damon . 
I can see where I am going to be cut out , Tom Swift . 
I'll not get many more rides with you now that Miss Nestor is taking to aeroplaning , you young rascal ! And he playfully shook his finger at Tom . 
Now , if you take me more than five feet up in the air , I'll never speak to you again , Tom Swift ! she exclaimed . 
Five feet it shall be , unless you yourself ask to go higher , was the youth's reply , as he winked at Mr. Damon . 
Well he knew the fascination of aeroplaning , and he was almost sure of what would happen . 
You can take a tape measure along , and see for yourself , he added to his fair passenger . 
The barograph will hardly register such a little height . 
Well , it's as high as I want to go , said the girl . 
Oh ! with a scream , as Tom started the propeller . 
Are we going ? In a moment , was his reply . 
He took his seat beside the girl . 
The motor was speeded up until it sounded like the roar of the ocean surf in a storm . 
Let her go ! cried Tom to Mr. Damon and Mr. Jackson , who were holding back the Humming Bird . 
They gave her a slight shove to over come the inertia , and the trim little craft darted across the ground at every increasing speed . 
Miss Nestor caught her breath with a gasp , glanced at Tom , and noted how cool he was , and then her frantic grip of the uprights slightly relaxed . 
We'll go up a little way in a minute ! shouted Tom in her ear as they were speeding over the level ground . 
It was as if the Humming Bird resented being held so closely to the earth . 
Around in a big circle , back and forth went the craft , at no time being more than seven feet from the ground . 
Tom glanced at Miss Nestor . 
Her cheeks were unusually red , and there was a bright sparkle in her eyes . 
It's glorious ! she cried . 
Do you do you think there's any danger in going higher ? I believe I'd like to go up a bit . 
I knew it ! cried Tom . 
Up we go ! And he pulled the wind bending plane lever toward him . 
Upward shot the craft , as if alive . 
Sit still ! It's all right ! commanded Tom . 
It's glorious glorious ! she cried . 
Shall we go higher ? Yes ! cried Miss Nestor , and she gazed fearlessly down at the earth , which was falling away from beneath their feet . 
She was in the grip of the air , and it was a new and wonderful sensation . 
Tom went up to a considerable distance , for , once a person loses his first fright , one hundred feet or one thousand feet elevation makes little difference to him . 
It was this way with Miss Nestor . 
Tom did not try for the great speed of which he knew his craft was capable , for he knew there was some risk with Miss Nestor aboard . 
But he did nearly everything else , and when he sent the Humming Bird down he had made another convert and devotee to the royal sport of aeroplaning . 
Oh ! I never would dared believe I could do it ! exclaimed the girl , as with flushed cheeks and dancing eyes she dismounted from the seat . 
Mamma and papa will never believe I did it ! Bring them over , and I'll take them for a flight , said Tom , with a laugh , as Mary departed . 
Tom received an answer to his letter to Mr. Sharp that night . 
Andy Foger's entry blank states , wrote the balloonist , that he is constructing his aeroplane in the village of Hampton , which is about fifty miles from your place . 
If there is anything further I can do for you , Tom , let me know . 
I will see you at the meet . 
Hope you win the prize . 
In Hampton , eh ? mused Tom . 
So that's where Andy has been keeping himself all this while . 
His uncle lives there , and that's the reason for it . 
He wanted to keep it a secret from me , so he could use my stolen plans for his craft . 
But he shan't do it ! I'll go to Hampton ! And I'll go with you ! declared Mr. Damon , who was with Tom when he got the note from the balloonist . 
We'll get to the bottom of this mystery after a while , Tom . 
Delaying a few days , to make the final changes in his aeroplane , Tom and Mr. Damon departed for Hampton one morning . 
They got to Hampton late that afternoon . 
What's the first thing to be done ? asked Mr. Damon as they walked up from the station , where they were almost the only persons who alighted from the train . 
Go to the hotel , decided Tom . 
There's only one , I was told , so there's not much choice . 
Hampton was a quiet little country town of about five thousand inhabitants , and Tom soon learned the address of Mr. Bentley , Andy's uncle , from the hotel clerk . 
What business is Mr. Bentley in ? asked Tom , for he wanted to learn all he could without inquiring of persons who might question his motives . 
Oh , he's retired , said the clerk . 
He lives on the interest of his money . 
But of late he's been erecting some sort of a building on his back lot , like a big shed , and folks are sort of wondering what he's doing in it . 
Keeps mighty secret about it . 
He's got a young fellow helping him . 
Has he got red hair ? asked Tom , while his heart beat strangely fast . 
Who ? Mr. Bentley ? No. His hair's black . 
I mean the young fellow . 
Oh ! his ? Yes , his is red . 
He's a nephew , or some relation to Mr. Bentley . 
I did hear his name , but I've forgotten it . 
Sandy , or Andy , or some such name as that . 
This was near enough for Tom and Mr. Damon , and they did not want to risk asking any more questions . 
They turned away to go to their rooms , as the clerk was busy answering inquiries from some other guests . 
A little later , supper was served , and Tom , having finished , whispered to Mr. Damon to join him upstairs as soon as he was through . 
What are you going to do ? asked the eccentric man . 
We're going out and have a look at this new shed by moonlight , decided Tom . 
I want to see what it's like , and , if possible , I want to get a peep inside . 
I'll soon be able to tell whether or not Andy is using my stolen plans . 
Bless my bill of fare ! But we seem to be doing a lot of mysterious work of late . 
But if you have to bless anything to night , Mr. Damon , please whisper it . 
Andy , or some of his friends , may be about the shed , and as soon as they hear one of your blessings they'll know who's coming . 
Oh , I'll be careful , promised Mr. Damon . 
A little later , as if . 
they were merely strolling about , Mr. Damon and Tom headed for Mr. Bentley's place , which was on the outskirts of the town . 
There was a full moon , and the night was just right for the kind of observation Tom wanted to make . 
There were few persons abroad , and the young inventor thought he would have no one spying on him . 
They located the big house of Andy's uncle without trouble . 
Going down a side street , they had a glimpse of a shed , built of new boards , standing in the middle of a large lot . 
About the structure was a new , high wooden fence , but as Tom and his friend passed along it they saw that a gate in it was open . 
I'm going in ! whispered Tom . 
Will it be safe ? asked Mr. Damon . 
I don't care whether it will be or not . 
I've got to know what Andy is doing . 
Come on ! We'll take a chance ! Cautiously they entered the enclosure . 
The big shed was dark , and stood out conspicuously in the moonlight . 
There doesn't seem to be any one here , whispered Tom . 
I wonder if we could get a look in the window ? It's worth trying , anyhow , agreed Mr. Damon . 
I'm with you , Tom . 
They drew nearer to the shed . 
Suddenly Tom stepped on a stick , which broke with a sharp report . 
Bless my spectacles ! cried Mr. Damon , half aloud . 
Oh ! it's you , is it , Tom Swift ? exclaimed the red haired bully . 
I thought you'd come sneaking around . 
Come on , Jake ! We'll make them wish they'd stayed home ! And Andy made a rush for Tom . 
Chapter Fourteen The Great Test Bless my gizzard ! exclaimed Mr. Damon , who hardly knew what to do . 
We'd better be getting out of here , Tom ! Not much ! exclaimed the young inventor . 
I never ran from Andy Foger yet , and I'm not going to begin now . 
The man , who had followed young Foger , also stopped . 
What do you want around here , Tom Swift ? demanded Andy . 
You know very well what I want , said the young inventor , calmly . 
I want to know what you did with the aeroplane plans you took from my house . 
I never took any ! declared Andy vigorously Well , there's no use discussing that , went on Tom . 
Stand back ! cried Andy , getting in Tom's way . 
I can build any kind of an aeroplane I like , and you can't stop me ! We'll see about that , declared the young inventor , as he kept on . 
I'm not going to allow my plans to be stolen , and a monoplane made after them , and do nothing about it . 
You keep away ! snarled Andy , and he grabbed Tom by the shoulder and struck him a blow in the chest . 
He must have been very much excited , or otherwise he never would have come to hostilities this way with Tom , whom he well knew could easily beat him . 
The blow , together with the many things he had suffered at Andy's hands , was too much for our hero . 
He drew back his fist , and a moment later Andy Foger was stretched out on the grass . 
He lay there for a moment , and then rose up slowly to his knees , his face distorted with rage . 
You you hit me ! he snarled . 
Not until you hit first , said Tom calmly . 
Bless my punching bag ! That's so ! exclaimed Mr. Damon . 
You'll suffer for this ! whined Andy , getting to his feet , but taking care to retreat from Tom , who stood ready for him . 
Now the bully and his companion were in full retreat . 
We'll get our guns , and then we'll see whether they'll want to stay where they're not wanted ! went on Andy , threateningly . 
Bless my powderhorn ! What had we better do ? asked Mr. Damon . 
I guess we'd better go back , said Tom calmly . 
Not that I'm afraid of Andy . 
His talk about guns is all bluff but I don't want to get into any more of a row , and he is just ugly and reckless enough to make trouble . 
I'm afraid we can't learn what we came to find out , though I'm more convinced than ever that Andy is using my plans to make his aeroplane . 
But what can you do ? I'll see Mr. Sharp , and send a protest to the aviation committee . 
I'll refuse to enter if Andy flies in a model of my Humming Bird , and I'll try to prevent him from using it after he gets it on the ground . 
That is all I can do , it seems , lacking positive information . 
Come on , Mr. Damon . 
Let's get back to our hotel , and we'll start for home in the morning . 
I have a plan , whispered the odd man . 
What is it ? asked Tom , narrowly watching for the reappearance of Andy and the man . 
I'll stay here until they come , then I'll pretend to run away . 
They'll chase after me , and get all excited , and you can go up and look in the shed windows . 
Then you can join me later . 
How's that ? Too risky . 
They might fire at you by mistake . 
I've found out more than enough to confirm my suspicions . 
They turned out of the lot which contained the shed , and walked toward the road , just as Andy and his crony came back . 
Huh ! You'd better go ! taunted the bully . 
Tom had a bitter feeling in his heart . 
It seemed as if he was defeated , and he did not like to retreat before Andy . 
You'd better not come back here again , either , went on Andy . 
Tom and Mr. Damon did not reply , but kept on in silence . 
They returned to Shopton the next day . 
Well , remarked Tom , when he had gone out to look at his Humming Bird , I know one thing . 
When are you going to try for speed ? asked Mr. Damon . 
To morrow , if I can get it tuned up enough , replied Tom , and I think I can . 
Yes , we'll have the great test to morrow , and then I'll know whether I really have a chance for that ten thousand dollars . 
The young inventor went over every bolt , brace , stay , guy wire and upright . 
He examined every square inch of the wings , the tips , planes and rudders . 
The levers , the steering wheel , the automatic equilibrium attachments and the balancing weights were looked at again and again . 
As for the engine , had it been a delicate watch , Tom could not have scrutinized each valve , wheel , cam and spur gear more carefully . 
Come along , Mr. Damon . 
Am I going with you in the test ? Surely . 
I've been counting on you . 
If you're to be with me in the race , you want to get a sample of what we can do . 
Mr. Jackson , are you ready to time us ? All ready , Tom . 
And , dad , do you feel well enough to check back Mr. Jackson's results ? I don't want any errors . 
Oh , yes , Tom . 
Now this is my plan . 
I'm going to mount upward on an easy slant , and put her through a few stunts first , to warm up , and see that everything is all right . 
Then , when I give the signal , by dropping this small white ball , that means I'm ready for you to start to time me . 
Then I'll begin to try for the record . 
I'll go about the course in a big ellipse , and well , we'll see what happens . 
While Mr. Damon was in his seat the young inventor started the propeller , and noted the thrust developed . 
It was satisfactory , as measured on the scale , and then Tom took his place . 
Let her go ! he cried to Mr. Jackson and Eradicate , after he had listened to the song of the motor for a moment . 
The Humming Bird flew across the course , and a moment later mounted into the air . 
How about it ? asked Mr. Damon anxiously . 
All right ! shouted Tom in his ear , for the motor was making a great racket . 
I guess we'll make the trial next time we come around . 
Get ready to drop the signal ball . 
Tom slowly brought the aeroplane around in a graceful curve . 
He sighted down , and saw the first tall white pole that marked the beginning of the course . 
Drop ! he called to Mr. Damon . 
The white rubber ball went to the earth like a shot . 
Mr. Jackson and Mr. Swift saw it , and started their timing watches . 
Tom opened the throttle and advanced the spark . 
The great test was on ! The Humming Bird trembled and throbbed with the awful speed of the motor , like a thing alive . 
She seemed to rush forward as an eagle dropping down from a dizzy height upon some hapless prey . 
Faster yet ! murmured Tom . 
We must go faster yet ! The motor was warming up . 
Streaks of fire came from it . 
The exhaust of the explosions was a continuous roar . 
Faster and faster flew the frail craft . 
Around and around the air course she circled . 
The wind appeared to be rushing beneath the planes and rudders with the velocity of a hurricane . 
Had it not been for the face protectors they wore , Tom and Mr. Damon could not have breathed . 
For ten minutes this fearful speed was kept up . 
Then Tom , knowing he had run the motor to the limit , slowed it down . 
Next he shut it off completely , and prepared to volplane back to earth . 
The silence after the terrific racket was almost startling . 
For a moment neither of the aviators spoke . 
Then Mr. Damon said Do you think you did it , Tom ? I don't know . 
And he motioned toward the earth , which they were rapidly nearing . 
What do you think you did ? asked Mr. Jackson , who had been busy figuring on a slip of paper . 
Did I get her up to ninety miles an hour ? inquired Tom eagerly . 
If I did , I know when the motor wears down a bit smoother that I can make her hit a hundred in the race , easily . 
Did I touch ninety , Mr. Jackson ? Better than that , Tom ! Better than that ! cried his father . 
Yes , joined in Mr. Jackson . 
But I thought you were going to object to him if he has , said Mr. Damon , who had hardly recovered from the speedy flight through space . 
Well , I was just providing for a contingency , in case my protest was overruled , remarked Tom . 
But I'm glad the Humming Bird did so well on her first trial . 
I know she'll do better the more I run her . 
Now we'll get her back in her 'nest , and I'll look her over , when she cools down , and see if anything has worked loose . 
But the trim little craft needed only slight adjustments after her tryout , for Tom had built her to stand up under a terrific strain . 
What will you do to occupy your mind ? asked Mr. Damon . 
Oh , I'm going to travel , announced Tom . 
Then there's my new electric rifle , which I have not perfected yet . 
I'll work on that after I win the big race . 
For several days after the first real trial of his sky racer Tom was busy going over the Humming Bird , making slight changes here and there . 
The wireless outfit of the Humming Bird was a marvel of compactness . 
Thus the days passed , with Tom very busy so busy , in fact , that he hardly had time to call on Miss Nestor . 
As for Andy Foger , he heard no more from him , and the bully was not seen around Shopton . 
Tom concluded that he was at his uncle's place , working on his racing craft . 
It was a mighty queer thing , but it's lucky it was no worse . 
The time was approaching for the big aviation meet . 
Tom's craft was in readiness , and had been given several other trials , developing more speed each time . 
And if they do , I guess we'll be ready for them , said Tom grimly . 
As for Mr. Swift , at times he seemed quite well , and again he required the services of a physician . 
You will have to be very careful of your father , Tom , said Dr . 
Any sudden shock or excitement may aggravate his malady , and in that case a serious operation will be necessary . 
It was some days after this , and lacking about a week until the meet was to open , when a peculiar thing happened . 
Tom had given his Humming Bird a tryout one day , and had then begun to make arrangements for taking it apart and shipping it to Eagle Park . 
For he would not fly to the meet in it , for fear of some accident . 
So big cases had been provided . 
I'll take it apart in the morning , decided Tom , as he went to his room , after seeing to the burglar alarm , and ship her off . 
Then Mr. Damon and I will go there , set her up , and get ready to win the race . 
Tom had opened all the windows in his room , for it was very warm . 
In fact it was so warm that sleep was almost out of the question , and he got up to sit near the windows in the hope of feeling a breeze . 
I wonder if that's a heavy wind starting up ? he mused . 
Good luck , if it is ! We need it . 
The noise increased , sounding more and more like wind , but Tom , looking out into the night , saw the leaves of the trees barely moving . 
If that's a breeze , it's taking its own time getting here , he went on . 
The sound came nearer , and then Tom knew that it was not the noise of the wind in the trees . 
It was more like a roaring and rumbling , Can it be distant thunder ? Tom asked himself . 
There is no sign of a storm . 
Once more he looked from the window . 
The night was calm and clear the trees as still as if they were painted . 
The sound was even more plain now , and Tom , who had sharp ears , at once decided that it was just over the house directly overhead . 
An instant later he knew what it was . 
The motor of an aeroplane , or a dirigible balloon ! he exclaimed . 
Then Tom hastily made his way to where a flight of stairs led to a little enclosed observatory on the roof . 
I'm going to see what sort of a craft it is making that noise , he said . 
As he opened the trap door , and stepped out into the little observatory the sound was so plain as to startle him . 
He looked up quickly , and , directly overhead he saw a curious sight . 
Chapter Sixteen A Mysterious Fire For a few moments Tom did not know what to think . 
Then , as he realized that night flights were becoming more common , Tom tried to make out the details of the craft . 
I wish I had brought the night glasses with me , he said aloud . 
Here they are , spoke a voice at his side , and so suddenly that Tom was startled . 
He looked down , and saw Mr. Jackson standing beside him . 
Did you hear the noise , too ? the lad asked the engineer . 
Then I heard you moving around , and I heard you come up here . 
I thought maybe it was a flight of meteors you'd come to see , and I knew the glasses would be handy , so I stopped for them . 
Take a look , Tom . 
It's an aeroplane isn't it ? Yes , and not moving very fast , either . 
They seem to be circling around here . 
I never saw one like it before . 
I wonder who could have invented that ? It's something like a santos Dumont and a Bleriot , with some features of Cornu's Helicopter . 
It certainly is , agreed the engineer , who was now sighting through the glasses . 
In spite of the darkness the binoculars brought out the peculiarities of the aeroplane with considerable distinctness . 
Can you make out who are in it ? asked Tom . 
No , answered Mr. Jackson . 
But Tom had no better luck . 
There were two persons in the odd machine , which was slowly flying along , moving in a great circle , with the Swift house for its center . 
I wonder why they're hanging around here ? asked Tom , suspiciously . 
Perhaps they want to talk to you , suggested Mr. Jackson . 
They may be fellow inventor perhaps one of them is that Philadelphia man who had the Whizzer . 
No , replied the lad . 
He would have sent me word if he intended calling on me . 
Those are strangers , I think . 
There they are , coming back again . 
The mysterious aeroplane was once more circling toward the watchers on the roof . 
There was a movement on the steps , near which Tom was standing , and his father came up . 
Is anything the matter ? he asked anxiously . 
Only a queer craft circling around up here , was the reply . 
Come and see , dad . 
Mr. Swift ascended to the roof . 
The aeroplane was higher now , and those in her could not so easily be made out . 
Tom felt a vague sense of fear , as though he was being watched by the evil eyes of his enemies . 
More than once he looked over to the shed where his craft was housed , as though some danger might threaten it . 
But the shed of the Humming Bird showed no signs of invaders . 
Suddenly the mysterious aeroplane increased its speed . 
It circled about more quickly , and shot upward , as though to show the watchers of what it was capable . 
Then , with a quick swoop it darted downward , straight for the building where Tom's newest invention was housed . 
Look out ! They'll hit something ! cried the young inventor , as though those in the aeroplane could hear him . 
Then , just as though they had heeded his warning , the pilots of the mysterious craft shot her upward , after she had hovered for an instant over the big shed . 
That was a queer move , said Tom . 
It looked as if they lost control of her for a moment . 
And they dropped something ! cried Mr. Jackson . 
Look ! something fell from the aeroplane on the roof of the shed . 
Some tool , likely , spoke Tom . 
I'll get it in the morning , and see what sort of instruments they carry . 
I'd like to examine that machine , though . 
The queer aeroplane was now shooting off in the darkness and Tom followed it with the glasses , wondering what its construction could be like . 
He was to have another sight of it sooner than he expected . 
Well , we may as well get back to bed , said Mr. Jackson . 
I'm tired , and we've got lots to do to morrow . 
Tom fell into a light doze . 
He thought afterward he could not have slept more than half an hour when he heard a commotion out in the yard . 
But what was Eradicate shouting ? Fire ! Fire ! Fire ! Tom leaped to his window . 
Wake up , Massa Tom ! Wake up ! De areoplane shed am on fire , an' de Humming Bird will burn up ! Hurry ! Hurry ! Tom looked out . 
Flames were shooting up from the roof of the shed where his precious craft was kept . 
There was but one thought in his mind . 
If he could get the Humming Bird safely out he would not care if the shed did burn , even though it contained many valuable tools and appliances . 
We must save my new aeroplane ! thought Tom , desperately . 
I've got to save her ! As he raced through the hall he caught up a portable chemical fire extinguisher . 
Tom saw his father's door open , and Mr. Swift looked out . 
What is it ? he called anxiously . 
Fire ! answered the young inventor , almost before he thought of the doctor's warning that Mr. Swift must not be excited . 
Tom wished he could recall the word , but it was too late . 
Aeroplane shed , answered the lad . 
It's only a small blaze . 
We'll attend to it Mr. Jackson and Eradicate and I. No I'm going to help ! exclaimed Mr. Swift , sturdily . 
I'll be with you , Tom . 
Go on ! The lad rushed down to the yard , closely followed by the engineer , who had caught up another extinguisher . 
Eradicate was rushing about , not knowing what to do , but still keeping up his shouting . 
It's on de roof ! De roof am all blazin' ! he yelled . 
Quit your noise , and get to work ! cried Tom . 
Get out a ladder , Rad , and raise it to the side of the shed . 
Then play this extinguisher on the blaze . 
Mr. Jackson , you help me run the Humming Bird out . 
After she's safe we'll tackle the fire . 
Tom cast a hurried look at the burning shed . 
The flames were shooting high up from the roof , now , and eating their way down . 
He wondered if a meteor could have fallen and caused it . 
They recoiled for the moment . 
What what's that ? gasped Tom , coughing and sneezing . 
Some chemical I I don't know what kind , spluttered Mr. Jackson . 
Have you any carboys of acid in there Tom , that might have exploded by the heat ? No not a thing . 
Once more they tried to go in , but were again driven back by the distressing fumes . 
The fire was eating down , now . 
There was a hole burned in the roof , and by the leaping tongues of flame Tom could see his aeroplane . 
It was almost in the path of the blaze . 
We must get her out ! he shouted . 
I'm going in ! But it was impossible , and the daring young inventor nearly succumbed to the choking odors . 
Mr. Jackson dragged him back . 
We can't go in ! he cried . 
There has been some mysterious work here ! Those fumes were put here to keep us from saving the machine . 
This fire has been set by some enemy ! We can't go in ! But I am going ! declared Tom . 
We'll try the back door . 
They rushed to that , but again were driven out by the gases and vapors , which were mingled with the smoke . 
Disheartened , yet with a wild desire to do something to save his precious craft , Tom Swift drew back for a moment . 
As he did so he heard a hiss , as Eradicate turned the chemical stream on the blaze . 
The faithful colored man was on a ladder near the burning roof , acting well his part as a fireman . 
That's the stuff ! cried Tom . 
Come on , Mr. Jackson . 
Maybe if we use the chemical extinguishers we can drive out those fumes ! The engineer understood . 
He took up the extinguisher he had brought , and Tom got a second one from a nearby shed . 
Then Mr. Swift came out bearing another . 
You shouldn't have come , dad ! We can attend to it ! cried Tom , fearing for the effect of the excitement on his invalid parent . 
Oh , I couldn't stay there and see the shed burn . 
Are you getting it under control ? Why don't you run out the Humming Bird ? Tom did not mention the choking fumes . 
He passed up a full extinguisher to Eradicate , who had used all the chemical in his . 
Then Tom got another ladder , and soon three streams were being directed on the flames . 
They had eaten , a pretty big hole in the roof , but the chemicals were slowly telling on them . 
As soon as he saw that Eradicate and Mr. Jackson could control the blaze , Tom descended to the ground , and ran once more to the big doors . 
And it would not take much to inflict serious damage on the sky racer . 
I'll get her , fumes or no fumes ! murmured Tom , grimly . 
He wheeled the aeroplane outside , for the Humming Bird was almost as light as her namesake . 
A hurried glance by the gleam of the dying fire assured Tom that his craft was not damaged beyond a slight scorching of one of the wing tips . 
That was a narrow escape ! he murmured , as he wheeled the sky racer far away , out of any danger from sparks . 
Then he went back to help fight the fire , which was extinguished in about ten minutes more . 
It was a mighty queer blaze , said Mr. Jackson , starting at the top that way . 
I wonder what caused it ? We'll investigate in the morning , decided Tom . 
Now , dad , you must get back to your room . 
He turned to help his father in , but at that moment Mr. Swift , who was trying to say something , fell over in a dead faint . 
Quick ! Help me carry him into the house ! cried Tom . 
The physician looked grave when , half an hour later , he examined his patient . 
Mr. Swift is very much worse , he said in a low voice . 
The excitement of the fire has aggravated his ailment . 
I would like another doctor to see him , Tom . 
Another doctor ? Tom's voice showed his alarm . 
Yes , we must have a consultation . 
Kurtz will be a good one to call in . 
I should like his opinion before I decide what course to take . 
Chapter Eighteen The Broken Bridge Dr . 
Kurtz looked as grave as did Dr . 
Gladby when he had made an examination of the patient . 
Mr. Swift was still in a semi conscious condition , hardly breathing as he rested on the bed where they had placed him after the fire . 
Vell , said the German physician , after a long silence , vot is your obinion , my dear Gladby ? I think an operation is necessary . 
Yes , dot is so but you know vot kind of an operation alone vill safe him eh , my dear Gladby ? Dr . 
It will be a rare and delicate one , he said . 
There is but one surgeon I know of who can do it . 
You mean Herr Hendrix ? asked Dr . 
Edward Hendrix , of Kirkville . 
If he can be induced to come I think there is a chance of saving Mr. Swift's life . 
I'll speak to Tom about it . 
The two physicians , who had been consulting together , summoned the youth from another room , where , with Mrs. Baggert and Mr. Jackson he had been anxiously awaiting the verdict . 
What is it ? the young inventor asked Dr . 
The medical man told him to what conclusion he and his colleague had arrived , adding We advise that Dr . 
Hendrix be sent for at once . 
But I need hardly tell you , Tom , that he is a noted specialist , and his services are in great demand . 
He is hard to get . 
I'll pay him any sum he asks ! burst out the youth . 
I'll spend all my fortune and I have made considerable money of late I'll spend every cent to get my father well ! Money need not stand in the way , Dr . 
I knew that , Tom . 
Hendrix is a very busy man , and it is hard to induce him to come a long distance . 
It is over a hundred miles to Kirkville , and it is an out of the way place . 
I never could understand why Dr . 
But there he is , and if we want him he will have to come from there . 
The worst of it is that there are few trains , and only a single railroad line from there to Shopton . 
Then I'll telegraph , decided Tom . 
I'll offer him his own price , and ask him to rush here as soon as he can . 
You had better let Dr . 
Kurtz and me attend to that part of it , suggested the physician . 
Hendrix would hardly come on the request of some one whom he did not know . 
I'll prepare a telegram , briefly explaining the case . 
It is the sort of an operation Dr . 
Hendrix is much interested in , and I think he will come on that account , if for no other reason . 
I'll write out the message , and you can have Eradicate take it to the telegraph office . 
I'll take it myself ! exclaimed Tom , as he got ready to go out into the night with the urgent request . 
Is there any immediate danger for my father ? he asked . 
No not any immediate danger , replied Dr . 
But the operation is imperative if he is to live . 
It is his one and only chance . 
Tom thought only of his father as he hurried on through the night . 
Even the prospect of the great race , so soon to take place , had no part in his mind . 
I'll not race until I'm sure dad is going to get better , he decided . 
With the message to the noted specialist Tom also sent one to Mr. Damon , telling him the news , and asking him to come to Shopton . 
Bless my soul ! he exclaimed with ready sympathy , as he extended his hand to Tom . 
What's all this ? The young inventor told him , beginning with the fire that had been the cause of the excitement which produced the change in Mr. Swift . 
But I have great hopes that the specialist will be able to cure him , said Tom , for , with the coming of daylight , his courage had returned to him . 
Kurtz depend a great deal on Dr . 
Yes , he certainly is a wonderful man . 
I have heard a great deal about him . 
I have no doubt but what he will cure your father . 
Bless my penwiper , but I'll help you . 
Tom went into the house , to inquire of Mrs. Baggert , for probably the tenth time that morning , how his father was doing . 
Mr. Swift was still in a semi conscious condition , but he recognized Tom , when the youth stood at his bedside . 
Don't worry about me , son , said the brave old inventor , as he took Tom's hand . 
Go ahead and get ready for the race . 
I want you to win ! Tears came into Tom's eyes . 
Would his father be well enough to allow him to take part in the big event ? He feared not . 
By daylight it was seen that quite a hole had been burned in the aeroplane shed . 
Tom and Mr. Damon , accompanied by Mr. Jackson , walked through the place . 
And you say the fire broke out right after you had seen the mysterious airship hovering over the house ? asked the eccentric man . 
Well , not exactly after , answered Tom , but within an hour or so . 
Why do you ask ? But Mr. Damon did not answer . 
Something on the floor of the shed , amid a pile of blackened and charred pieces of wood , attracted his attention . 
He stooped over and picked it up . 
Is this yours ? he asked Tom . 
No. What is it ? The object looked like a small iron ball , with a tube about half an inch in diameter projecting slightly from it . 
Why , it looks like an infernal machine or a dynamite bomb , he said . 
I wonder where it came from ? Guess I'd better drop it in a pail of water . 
Maybe Eradicate found it and brought it here . 
I never saw it before . 
Mr. Jackson , please hand me that pail of water . 
There is no need , said Mr. Damon , quietly . 
It has done its work . 
It was that which set fire to your shed , and which caused the stifling fumes . 
This ball is hollow , and was filled with a chemical . 
Are you sure of this ? asked the young inventor . 
I read about these bombs recently . 
A German invented them to be used in attacking a besieged city in case of war . 
But how did this one get on my shed roof ? asked Tom . 
It was dropped there by the mysterious airship ! exclaimed the odd man . 
That was why the aeroplane moved about over your place . 
Some of your enemies are still after you , Tom . 
And it was Andy Foger , I'll wager ! he cried . 
Andy is capable of such a thing . 
He wanted to prevent you from taking part in the race . 
Well , he sha'n't ! cried Tom , and then he thought of his invalid father . 
They made a further examination of the shed , and discovered another empty bomb . 
Then Tom recalled having seen something drop from the mysterious aeroplane as it passed over the shed . 
It was these bombs , he said . 
Accordingly , a big tarpaulin was fastened over the hole in the roof . 
Then Tom put a new wing tip on in place of the one that had been scorched . 
He looked all over his sky racer , and decided that it was in fit condition for the coming meet . 
I'll begin to take it apart for shipment , as soon as I hear from the specialist that dad is well enough for me to go , he said . 
It was a few hours after the discovery of the empty bomb that Tom saw Dr . 
The physician was urging his horse to top speed . 
Tom felt a vague fear in his heart . 
I've got a message from Dr . 
Hendrix , Tom , he said , as he stopped his carriage , and approached the lad . 
When can he come ? asked the young inventor , eagerly . 
He can't get here , Tom . 
Can't get here ! Why not ? Because the railroad bridge has collapsed , and there is no way to come . 
He can't make any other connections to get here in time in time to do your father any good , Tom . 
He has just sent me a telegram to that effect . 
Hendrix can't get here , and . 
Do you mean that my father may die if the operation is not performed ? asked Tom , in a low voice . 
Yes , was the answer . 
Hendrix drive here in an auto ? asked the lad . 
Surely there must be some way of getting over the river , even if the railroad bridge is down . 
Can't he cross in a boat and drive here ? He wouldn't be in time , Tom . 
Don't you understand , Dr . 
Hendrix must be here within four hours , if he is to save your father's life . 
He never could do it by driving or by coming on some other road , or in an auto . 
He can't make the proper connections . 
Yes , there is ! cried Tom , suddenly . 
I know a way ! How ? asked Dr . 
Gladby , thrilled by Tom's ringing tones . 
How can you do it , Tom ? I'll go for Dr . 
Hendrix in my Humming Bird . 
Going for him would do no good . 
He must be brought here . 
And so he shall be ! cried Tom . 
I'll bring him here in my sky racer if he has the nerve to stand the journey , and I think he has ! I'll bring Dr . 
Hendrix here ! and Tom hurried away to prepare for the thrilling trip . 
Chapter Nineteen A Nervy Specialist There was little time to lose . 
Every moment of delay meant so much less chance for the recovery of Mr. Swift . 
Even now the periods of consciousness were becoming shorter and farther apart . 
He seemed to be sinking . 
Tom resolutely refused to think of the possibility of death , as he went in to bid his parent good by before starting off on his trip through the air . 
Mr. Swift barely knew his son , and , with tears in his eyes , though he bravely tried to keep them back , the young inventor went out into the yard . 
There stood the Humming Bird , with Mr. Jackson , Mr. Damon and Eradicate working over her , to get her in perfect trim for the race before her a race with death . 
Fortunately there was little to be done to get the speedy craft ready . 
Tom had accomplished most of what was necessary , while waiting for word from Dr . 
Now about all that needed to be done was to see that there was plenty of gasoline and oil in the reservoirs . 
I'll give you a note to Dr . 
Hendrix , said Mr. Gladby , as Tom was fastening on his faceguard . 
I I trust you won't be disappointed , Tom . 
I hope he will consent to return with you . 
He's got to come , said the young inventor , simply , as if that was all there was to it . 
Do you think you can make the trip in time ? asked Mr. Damon . 
It is a little less than a hundred miles in an airline , but you have to go and go back . 
Can the aeroplane do it ? I'd be ashamed of her if she couldn't , said Tom , with a grim tightening of his lips . 
He climbed to his seat , the other one holding a bag of sand to maintain a good balance . 
Start her , ordered Tom , and Mr. Jackson twisted the propeller . 
The motor caught at once , and the air throbbed with the noise of the explosions . 
Tom listened to the tune of the machinery . 
Two thousand pounds thrust ! called the engineer , as he looked at the scale . 
Let her go ! cried Tom , whose voice was hardly heard above the roar . 
The trim little aeroplane scudded over the ground , gathering speed at every revolution of the wheels . 
Then with a spring like that of some great bird launching itself in flight , she left the earth , and took to the air . 
Tom was off on his trip . 
Those left behind sent up a cautious cheer , for they did not want to disturb Mr. Swift . 
They waved their hands to the young inventor , and he waved his in reply . 
Then he settled down for one of the swiftest flights he had ever undertaken . 
Tom ascended until he struck a favorable current of air . 
There was a little wind blowing in the direction he wished to take , and that aided him . 
But even against a powerful head wind the Humming Bird could make progress . 
The young inventor saw the ground slipping backward beneath him . 
Carefully he watched the various indicators , and listened intently to the sound of the cylinders' explosions . 
They came rapidly and regularly . 
The motor was working well . 
Tom glanced at the barograph . 
Over cities , towns , villages , scattered farmhouses across stretches of forest over rivers , above big stretches of open country he flew . 
Often he could see eager crowds below , gazing up at him . 
But he paid no heed . 
He was looking for a sight of a certain broad river , which was near Kirkville . 
Then he knew he would be close to his goal . 
Faster and faster went the Humming Bird , but Tom's thoughts were even faster . 
He took little note of time , and when , in less than an hour he sighted the river that told him he was near to Kirkville , he was rather startled . 
You certainly did come right along , Humming Bird ! he murmured proudly . 
He descended several hundred feet , and , as he passed over the town , the people of which grew wildly excited , he looked about for the house of the noted specialist . 
He knew how to pick it out , for Dr . 
Gladby had described it to him , and Tom was glad to see , as he came within view of the residence , that it was surrounded by a large yard . 
I can land almost at his door , he said , and he did , volplaning to earth with an ease born of long practice . 
Hendrix was astonished when Tom dropped in on him in this manner , would not be exactly true . 
The specialist was not in the habit of receiving calls from youths in aeroplanes , but the fact was , that Dr . 
Hendrix was so absorbed in his work , and thought so constantly about it , that it took a great deal to startle him out of his usual calm . 
And so you came for me in your aeroplane ? he asked of Tom , as he gazed at the trim little craft . 
It is doubtful if he really saw it , however , as Dr . 
Hendrix was just then thinking of an operation he had performed a few hours before . 
I'm sorry you had your trip for nothing , he went on . 
Yes , there is ! cried Tom , eagerly . 
How ? The same way I came in the aeroplane ! Dr . 
Hendrix you must go back with me ! It's the only way to save my father's life . 
Come with me in the Humming Bird . 
I can make the trip in less than an hour . 
I can carry you and your instruments . 
Will you come ? Won't you come to save my father's life ? Tom was fairly pleading now . 
A trip in an aeroplane , mused Dr . 
Hendrix I've never taken such a thing . 
I Don't be afraid , there's really no danger , said Tom . 
The physician seemed to reach a sudden conclusion . 
He walked over and looked at the little Humming Bird . 
For the time being he forgot about his operations . 
I'll go with you ! he suddenly cried . 
Chapter Twenty Just in Time While Dr . 
Hendrix was in his office , getting ready to make the thrilling trip through the air with Tom , the young inventor spent a few minutes going over his monoplane . 
The wonderful little craft had made her first big flight in excellent time , though Tom knew she could do better the farther she was flown . 
Not a stay had started , not a guy wire was loose . 
The motor had not overheated , and every bearing was as cool as though it had not taken part in thousands of revolutions . 
Oh , I can depend on you ! murmured Tom , as he looked to see that the propeller was tight on the shaft . 
He gave the bearing a slight adjustment to make sure of it . 
He was at this when the specialist reappeared . 
Hendrix , after his first show of excitement , when he had made his decision to accompany Tom , had resumed his usual calm demeanor . 
Once again he was the grave surgeon , with his mind on the case before him . 
Well , is my auto ready ? he asked absentmindedly . 
Well , Mr. Swift , are we all ready ? All ready , replied the young inventor . 
We're going to make fast time , Dr . 
You'd better put this on , and Tom extended a face protector . 
What's it for ? The physician looked curiously at it . 
To keep the air from cutting your cheeks and lips . 
We are going to travel a hundred miles an hour this trip . 
A hundred miles an hour ! Dr . 
Hendrix spoke as though he would like to back out . 
Maybe more , if I can manage it , went on Tom , calmly , as he proceeded to remove the bag of sand from the place where the surgeon was to sit . 
Then he looked to the various equilibrium arrangements and the control levers . 
Hendrix was impressed by the calm demeanor of the young inventor . 
Very well , said the surgeon with a shrug of his shoulders , I guess I'm game , Tom Swift . 
The doctor took the seat Tom pointed out to him , with his bag of instruments on his knees . 
He put on the face protector , and had , at the suggestion of our hero , donned a heavy coat . 
For it's cold in the upper regions , said Tom . 
I'll give you a hand , said the chauffeur to the young inventor . 
I was at an aviation meet once , and I know how it's done . 
Then you can hold the machine , and shove when I give the word . 
Tom started the propeller himself , and quickly jumped into his seat . 
The chauffeur held back the Humming Bird until the young aviator had speeded up the motor . 
Let go ! cried the youthful inventor , and the man gave the little craft a shove . 
Across the rather uneven ground of the doctor's yard it ran , straight for a big iron barrier . 
Look out ! We'll be into the fence ! shouted the surgeon . 
We'll be killed ! He seemed about to leap off . 
Oh ! exclaimed the physician in a curious voice . 
They were off on their trip to save the life of Mr. Swift . 
What the sensations of the celebrated specialist were , Tom never learned . 
Magnificent ! Magnificent ! murmured the doctor , and then Tom knew that the surgeon was in the grip of the air , and was one of the bird men . 
Every moment the Humming Bird increased her speed . 
They passed over the river near where men were working on the broken bridge . 
It was now no barrier to them . 
Tom , noting the barograph , and seeing that they were twenty two hundred feet high , decided to keep at about that distance from the earth . 
How fast are we going ? cried Dr . 
Hendrix , into the ear of the young inventor . 
Just a little short of a hundred an hour ! Tom shouted back . 
We'll hit a hundred and five before long . 
His prediction proved true , and when about forty miles from Shopton that terrific speed had been attained . 
Almost before he knew it the Humming Bird gave a dangerous and sickening dive , and tilted at a terrifying angle . 
Are we going to turn turtle ? cried the doctor . 
I I hope not ! gasped Tom . 
He could not understand why the equilibrium weights did not work , but he had no time then to investigate . 
Quickly he warped the wing tips and brought the craft up on an even keel . 
He gave a sigh of relief as the aeroplane was once more shooting forward , and he was not mistaken when he thought he heard Dr . 
Hendrix murmur a prayer of thankfulness . 
Their escape had been a narrow one . 
Tom's nerve , and the coolness of the physician , had alone saved them from a fall to death . 
But now , as if ashamed of her prank , the Humming Bird went along even better than before . 
Tom was peering through the slight haze that hung over the earth , for a sight of Shopton . 
At length the spires of the churches came into view . 
There it is , he called , pointing downward . 
We'll land in two minutes more . 
No time to spare , murmured the doctor , who knew the serious nature of the aged inventor's illness . 
How long did it take us ? Fifty one minutes , replied Tom , glancing at a small clock in front of him . 
Then he shut off the motor and volplaned to earth , to the no small astonishment of the surgeon . 
He made a perfect landing in the yard before the shed , leaped from his seat , and called Come , Dr . 
Hendrix ! The surgeon followed him . 
Kurtz came to the door of the house . 
On their faces were grave looks . 
They greeted the celebrated surgeon eagerly . 
Well ? he asked quickly , and they knew what he meant . 
You are only just in time , said Dr . 
Gladby , softly , and Tom , following the doctors into the house , wondered if his trip with the specialist had been in vain . 
Chapter Twenty One Will He Live ? Soon there were busy scenes in the Swift home , as preparations were made for a serious operation on the aged inventor . 
Tom's father had sunk into deep unconsciousness , and was stretched out on the bed as though there was no more life in him . 
In fact , Tom , for the moment , feared that it was all over . 
Bluck up your courage , und doan't gif up . 
Der greatest surgeon in der vorld is here now , und if anybody gan safe your vater , Herr Hendriz gan . 
He wanted to be busy about something , for he knew , with the doctors , and a trained nurse who had been hastily summoned , there was no immediate need for him . 
He wanted to get his mind off the operation that would soon take place , and so he decided to look over his aeroplane . 
Mr. Damon came out when Tom was going over the guy wires and braces , to see how they had stood the strain . 
Well , Tom , my lad , said the eccentric man , sadly , as he grasped our hero's hand , it's too bad . 
But hope for the best . 
I'm sure your father will pull through . 
We will have to begin taking the Humming Bird apart soon won't we , if we're going to ship it to Eagle Park ? He wanted to take Tom's mind off his troubles . 
The Hamming Bird , to him , looked as if she was in a fog . 
Nonsense ! Of course we will ! cried Mr. Damon . 
No ! exclaimed Tom , in ringing tones . 
That's so , agreed the young inventor . 
We'll , we'll have to wait and see . 
He was busy now , going over every detail of the Humming Bird . 
Mr. Damon helped him , and they discovered the defect in the equilibrium weights , and remedied it . 
We can't afford to have an accident in the race , said Tom . 
He glanced toward the house , and wondered if the operation had begun yet . 
He could see the trained nurse hurrying here and there , Mrs. Baggert helping her . 
Eradicate Sampson shuffled out from the stable where he kept his mule Boomerang . 
On the face of the honest colored man there was a dejected look . 
Am Massa Swift any better , Massa Tom ? he asked . 
We can't tell yet , was the answer . 
Well , if he doan't git well , den I'm goin' t' sell mah mule , went on the dirt chaser , from which line of activity Eradicate had derived his name . 
Sell Boomerang ! Bless my curry comb ! what for ? asked Mr. Damon . 
'Case as how he wouldn't neber be any good fo' wuk any mo' , explained Eradicate . 
So ef Massa Swift doan't git well , den I an' Boomerang parts ! Well , we hope it won't happen , said Tom , greatly touched by the simple grief of Eradicate . 
Silently they waited about the aeroplane . 
Tom tried to busy himself , but he could not . 
He kept his eyes fastened on the house . 
It seemed like several hours , but it was not more than one , ere the white capped nurse came to the door and waved her hand to Tom . 
He sprang to his feet and rushed forward . 
What would be the message he was to receive ? He stood before the nurse , his heart madly beating . 
She looked gently at him . 
Will he will he live ? Tom asked , pantingly . 
I think so , she answered gently . 
It was a success , so far . 
Time alone will tell , now . 
Hendrix says you can see your father for lust a moment . 
Chapter Twenty Two Off to the Meet Softly Tom tiptoed into the room where his father lay . 
At the bedside were the three doctors , and the nurse followed the young inventor in . 
Mrs. Baggert stood in the hall , and near her was Garret Jackson . 
The aged housekeeper had been weeping , but she smiled at Tom through her tears . 
I think he's going to get well , she whispered . 
She always looked on the bright side of things . 
You must only speak a few words to him , cautioned the specialist , who had performed such a rare and delicate operation , near the heart of the invalid . 
He is very weak , Tom . 
Mr. Swift opened his eyes as his son approached . 
Tom are you there ? he asked in a whisper . 
Yes , dad , was the eager answer They tell me you you made a great trip to get Dr . 
Hendrix broken bridge came through the air with him . 
Is that right ? Yes , dad . 
You must get well and strong . 
But tell me did you go in in the Humming Bird ? Yes , dad . 
How did she work ? Fine . 
Over a hundred , and the motor wasn't at its best . 
Then you can go in the big race , and win . 
No , I don't believe I'll go , dad . 
Why not ? Mr. Swift spoke mort strongly I because well , I don't want to . 
Nonsense , Tom ! I know it's on my account . 
I want you to go in ! I want you to win that race ! Never mind about me . 
I'm going to get well , and I'll recover all the more quickly if you win that race . 
Now promise me you'll go in it and and win ! The invalid's strength was fast leaving him . 
I I , began Tom . 
Promise ! insisted the aged inventor , trying to rise . 
Hendrix made a hasty move toward the bed . 
Promise ! whispered the surgeon to Tom . 
I I promise ! exclaimed Tom , and the aged inventor sank back with a smile of satisfaction on his pale face . 
Now you must go , said Dr . 
He has talked long enough . 
He must sleep now , and get up his strength . 
Will he get better ? asked Tom , anxiously . 
We can't say for sure , was the answer . 
I don't want to enter the race unless I know he is going to live , went on Tom , as Dr . 
Gladby followed him out of the room . 
No one can say for a certainty that he will recover , spoke the physician . 
You will have to hope for the best , that is all , Tom . 
If I were you I'd go in the race . 
It will occupy your mind , and if you could send good news to your father it might help him in the fight for life he is making . 
But suppose suppose something happens while I am away ? suggested the young inventor . 
The doctor thought for a moment . 
Then he exclaimed You have a wireless outfit on your craft haven't you ? Yes . 
Then you can receive messages from here every hour if you wish . 
Garret Jackson , your engineer , can send them , and you can pick them up in mid air if need be . 
So I can ! cried Tom . 
I will go to the meet . 
I'll take the Humming Bird apart at once , and ship it to Eagle Park . 
Hendrix wants to go back in it , he added as an after thought . 
Hendrix is going to remain here for a few days , in case of an emergency . 
By that time the bridge will have been repaired , and he can go back by train . 
I gather , from what he said , that though he liked the air trip , he will not care for another one . 
Very well , assented Tom , and Mr. Damon and he were kept busy , packing the Humming Bird for shipment . 
Mr. Jackson helped them , and Eradicate and his mule Boomerang were called on occasionally when boxes or crates were to be taken to the railroad station . 
In the meanwhile , Mr. Swift , if he did not improve any , at least held his own . 
Hendrix left , saying there was nothing more he could do , and that the rest depended on the local physicians , and on the nurse . 
Und ve vill do our duty ! ponderously exclaimed Dr . 
You go off to dot bird race , Dom , und doan't vorry . 
Ve vill send der with out vire messages to you venever dere is anyt'ing to report . 
Go mit a light heart ! How Tom wished he could , but it was out of the question . 
Then , having bidden his father a fond farewell , and after arranging with Mr. Jackson to send frequent wireless messages , Tom and the eccentric man left for the meet . 
There was a wireless station at Eagle Park , and Tom had planned to receive the messages from home there until he could set up his own plant . 
He would have two outfits . 
Tom and Mr. Damon arrived at Eagle Park on time , and Tom's first inquiry was for a message from home . 
There was one , Stating that Mr. Swift was fairly comfortable , and seemed to be doing well . 
Tom arranged that in his absence the wireless operator on the grounds would take any message that came for him . 
The Humming Bird , in the big cases and boxes , had safely arrived , and these were soon in the tent which had been assigned to Tom . 
It was still several days until the opening of the meet , and the grounds presented a scene of confusion . 
I don't see anything of Andy Foger , remarked Mr. Damon , on the second day of their residence in the park . 
There are lots of new entries arriving , but he doesn't seem to be on hand . 
There's time enough , replied Tom . 
I am afraid he's hanging back until the last minute , and will spring his machine so late that I won't have time to lodge a protest . 
It would be just like him . 
Well , I'll be on the lookout for him . 
Have you heard from home to day , Tom ? No. I'm expecting a message any minute . 
The young inventor glanced toward the wireless apparatus which had been set up in the tent . 
At that moment there came the peculiar sound which indicated a message coming through space , and down the receiving wires . 
There's something now ! exclaimed Tom , as he hurried over and clamped the telephone receiver to his ear . 
Good news ! he exclaimed . 
Dad sat up a little to day ! I guess he's going to get well ! and he clicked back congratulations to his father and the others in Shopton . 
Another day saw the Humming Bird almost in shape again , and Tom was preparing for a tryout of the engine . 
For , on a strip of muslin which was across the tent , painted in gay colors , were the words THE FOGER AEROPLANE Bless my elevation rudder ! cried Mr. Damon . 
I'll lay the case before the committee . 
It will meet at once , and I'll let you know what they say . 
Understand , said Tom , I don't want to interfere unless I am convinced that Andy is trying an underhand trick . 
My plans are missing , and I think he took them . 
If his machine is made after those plans , it is , obviously , a steal , and I want him ruled out of the meet . 
And so he shall be ! exclaimed Mr. Sharp . 
Get the evidence against him , and we'll act quickly enough . 
The committee met in about an hour , and considered the case . 
Meanwhile , Tom and Mr. Damon strolled past the tent with its flaring sign . 
There was a man on guard , but Andy was not in sight . 
Then Tom was sent for , and Mr. Sharp told him what conclusion had been arrived at . 
It was this Under the rules of the meet , said the balloonist , we had to guarantee privacy to all the contestants until such time as they choose to exhibit their machines . 
That is , they need not bring them out until just before the races , he added . 
This is not a handicap affair , and the speediest machine , or the one that goes to the greatest height , according to which class it enters , will win . 
In consequence we cannot force any contestant to declare what kind of a machine he will use until he gets ready . 
Some are going to use the familiar type of biplanes and , as you can see , there is no secret about them . 
They are trying them out now . 
This was so , for several machines of this type were either in the air , circling about , or were being run over the ground . 
But others , continued Mr. Sharp , will not even take the committee into their confidence until just before the race . 
They want to keep their craft a secret . 
We can't compel them to do otherwise . 
I'm sorry , Tom , but the only thing I see for you to do is to wait until the last minute . 
Then , if you find Andy has infringed on your machine , lodge a protest that is unless you can get evidence against him before that time . 
Tom well knew the uselessness of the latter plan . 
He and Mr. Damon had tried several times to get a glimpse of the craft Andy had made , but without success . 
As to the other alternative that of waiting until the last moment Tom feared that , too , would be futile . 
Andy will enter the race , and there is a possibility that he may win . 
Almost any one could with a machine like the Humming Bird . 
It's the machine almost as much as the operator , in a case like this . 
But you can protest after the race , suggested Mr. Damon . 
That would be little good , in case Andy beat me . 
The public would say I was a sorehead , and jealous . 
No , I've either got to stop Andy before the race , or not at all . 
I will try to think of a plan . 
Tom did think of several , but abandoned them one after the other . 
He tried to get a glimpse inside the tent where the Foger aeroplane Was housed , but it was too closely guarded . 
Andy himself was not much in evidence , and Tom only had fleeting glimpses of the bully . 
Meanwhile he and Mt Damon , together with their machinist , were kept busy . 
As Tom's craft was fully protected by patents now , he had no hesitation in taking it out , and it was given several severe tests around the aerial course . 
It did even better than Tom expected of it , and he had great hopes . 
Always , though , there were two things that worried him . 
One was his father's illness , and the other the uneasiness he felt as to what Andy Foger might do . 
As to the former , the wireless reports indicated that Mr. Swift was doing as well as could be expected , but his improvement was not rapid . 
Regarding the latter worry , Tom saw no way of getting rid of it . 
I've just got to wait , that's all , he thought . 
The day before the opening of the meet , Tom and Mr. Damon had given the Humming Bird a grueling tryout . 
They had taken her high up so high that no prying eyes could time them , and there Tom had opened the motor for all the power in it . 
They had flashed through space at the rate of one hundred and twenty miles an hour . 
If we can only do that in the race , the ten thousand dollars is mine ! exulted Tom , as he slanted the nose of the aeroplane toward the earth . 
The day of the race dawned clear and beautiful . 
Tom was up early , for there remained many little things to do to get his craft in final trim for the contest . 
Then , too , he wanted to be ready to act promptly as soon as Andy's machine was wheeled out , and he also wanted to get a message from home . 
The wireless arrived soon after breakfast , and did not contain very cheering news . 
Your father not so well , Mr. Jackson sent . 
Poor night , but doctor thinks day will show improvement . 
Don't worry ! I wonder who could help it , mused poor Tom . 
Now I'll go out and see if I can catch a glimpse of what that sneak Andy has to pit against me , said Tom . 
All about was a scene of great activity . 
The grand stands were filled , and a big crowd stood about the field anxiously waiting for the first sight of the bird men in their wonderful machines . 
Now and then the band blared out , and cheers arose as one after another the frail craft were wheeled to the starting place . 
Men in queer leather costumes darted here and there they were the aviators who were soon to risk life and limb for glory and gold . 
Most of them were nervously smoking cigarettes . 
The air was filled with guttural German or nasal French , while now and then the staccato Russian was heard , and occasionally the liquid tones of a Japanese . 
For men of many nations were competing for the prizes . 
There was also one Witzig Liore Dutilleul biplane , with three planes behind . 
Tom was familiar with most of these types , but occasionally he saw a new one that excited his curiosity . 
However , he was more interested in what Andy Foger would turn out . 
Andy's machine had not been tried , and Tom wondered how he dared risk flying in it , without at least a preliminary tryout . 
But Andy , and those with him , were evidently full of confidence . 
Tom and Mr. Damon had wheeled the Humming Bird out of her canvas nest . 
There was a cheer as the crowd caught sight of the trim little craft . 
The young inventor , the eccentric man , and the machinist were busy going over every part . 
Meanwhile the meet had been officially opened , and it was announced that the preliminary event would be some air evolutions at no great height , and for no particular prize . 
Several biplanes and monoplanes took part in this . 
The opening stunts passed off successfully , save that a German operator in a Bleriot came to grief , crashing down to the ground , wrecking his machine , and breaking an arm . 
But he only laughed at that , and coolly demanded another cigarette , as he crawled out of the tangle of wires , planes and the motor . 
After this there was an exhibition flight by a French aviator in a Curtis biplane , who raced against one in a Baby Wright . 
It was a dead heat , according to the judges . 
Then came a flight for height and while no records were broken , the crowd was well satisfied . 
Get ready for the hundred mile ten thousand dollar prize race ! shouted the announcer , through his megaphone . 
Tom's heart gave a bound . 
There were seven entrants in this contest besides Tom and Andy Foger , and as announced by the starter they were as follows CONTESTANT MACHINE Von Bergen . 
Humming Bird Monoplane What is the style of the Foger machine ? yelled some one in the crowd , as the announcer lowered his megaphone . 
It has not been announced , was the reply . 
It will at once be wheeled out though , in accordance with the conditions of the race . 
There was a craning of necks , and an uneasy movement in the crowd , for Tom's story was now generally known . 
Get ready to make your protest , advised Mr. Damon to the young inventor . 
I'll stay by the machine here until you come back . 
Bless my radiator ! I hope you beat him ! I will , if it's possible ! murmured Tom , with a grim tightening of his lips . 
There was a movement about Andy's tent , whence , for the last half hour had come spasmodic noises that indicated the trying out of the motor . 
The flaps were pulled back and a curious machine was wheeled into view . 
Tom rushed over toward it , intent on getting the first view . 
Would it prove to be a copy of his speedy Humming Bird ? Eagerly he looked , but a curious sight met his eyes . 
The machine was totally unlike any he had expected to see . 
It was large , and to his mind rather clumsy , but it looked powerful . 
He pushed his way through the crowd . 
He saw Andy standing near the curious biplane , which type of air craft it nearest resembled , though it had some monoplane features . 
On the side was painted the name SLUGGER Andy caught sight of Tom Swift . 
I'm going to beat you ! the bully boasted , and I haven't a machine like yours , after all . 
So I see , stammered Tom , hardly knowing what to think . 
What did you do with my plans then ? I never had them ! Andy turned away , and began to assist the men he had hired to help him . 
Like all the others , his machine had two seats , for in this race each operator must carry a passenger . 
I wonder where they can be ? mused the young inventor . 
Then came the firing of the preliminary gun . 
Tom rushed back to where Mr. Damon stood waiting for him . 
There was a last lock at the Humming Bird . 
She was fit to race any machine on the ground . 
Mr. Damon took his place . 
The other contestants were in their seats with their passengers . 
Their assistants stood ready to shove them off . 
The explosions of so many motors in action were deafening . 
How much thrust ? cried Tom to his machinist . 
Twenty two hundred pounds ! Good ! The report of the starting gun could not be heard . 
But the smoke of it leaped into the air . 
It was the signal to go . 
Tom's voice would not have carried five feet . 
He waved his hands as a signal . 
His helper thrust the Humming Bird forward . 
Over the smooth ground it rushed . 
On a line with him were the other machines , including Andy Foger's Slugger . 
He felt his craft soar upward . 
The other machines also pointed their noses into the air . 
It was the tiny Demoiselle the smallest craft in the race , and its peculiar style of starting was always thus manifested . 
I don't believe he's going to make it , thought Tom . 
In another moment the tiny craft , after rising a short distance , dove downward , and was wrecked . 
The young inventor saw the two men crawling out from the tangled planes and wings , apparently uninjured . 
One contestant less , thought Tom , grimly , though with pity in his heart for the unfortunates . 
However , he must think of himself and his own craft now . 
He glanced at Mr. Damon sitting beside him . 
That odd gentleman , with never a thought of blessing anything now , unless he did it silently , was watching the lubricating system . 
This was a vital part of the craft , for if anything went wrong with it , and the bearings overheated , the race would have to be abandoned . 
A good start ! shouted Mr. Damon in his car . 
Tom nodded , and glanced behind him . 
On a line with the Humming Bird , and at about the same elevation , were the Bleriot monoplane and a Wright biplane . 
Below were the Santos Dumont and the Antoinette . 
Where's the Slugger ? called Tom to his friend . 
There , in the air above Tom's machine , and slightly in advance , was Andy Foger's craft . 
He had gotten away in better shape than had the Humming Bird . 
For a moment Tom's heart misgave him . 
Then he turned on more power , and had the satisfaction of mounting upward and shooting onward until he was on even terms with Andy . 
The bully gave one glance over toward his rival , and pulled a lever . 
The Slugger increased her speed , but Tom was not a second behind him . 
There was a roaring noise in the rear , and up shot De Tromp in the Farman , and Loi Tong , the little Japanese , in the Santos Dumont . 
Truly the race was going to he a hotly contested one . 
But the end was far off yet . 
After the first jockeying for a start and position , the race settled down into what might be termed a grind . 
So at varying heights the wonderful machines circled about the course . 
The Humming Bird was working well , and Tom felt a sense of pride as he saw the ground slipping away below him . 
I'll catch him ! muttered Tom , and he opened the throttle a trifle wider , and went after Andy , passing him with ease . 
They had covered about thirty miles of the course , when the humming and crackling of the wireless apparatus told Tom that a message was coming . 
He snapped the receiver to his ear , adjusting the outer covering to shut out the racket of the motor , and listened . 
Well ? asked Mr. Damon , as Tom took off the receiver . 
Dad isn't quite so well , answered the lad . 
Mr. Jackson says they have sent for Dr . 
He sends me word to go on and win , and I'll do it , too , only Tom paused , and choked back a sob . 
Then he prepared to get more speed out of his motor . 
Of course you will ! cried Mr. Damon . 
Bless my ! But they encountered an adverse current of wind at that moment , and it required the attention of both of the aviators to manage the machine . 
It was soon on an even keel again , and once more was shooting forward around the course . 
But , in general , Tom maintained the lead , and among the spectators there began a series of guesses as to how much he would win by . 
Tom glanced at the barograph . 
It registered a little over twelve hundred feet . 
He looked at the speed gage . 
He was doing a trifle better than a hundred miles an hour . 
He looked down at the signals . 
There was twenty miles yet to go . 
It was almost time for the spurt for which he had been holding back . 
Yet he would wait until five miles from the end , and then he felt that he could gain and maintain a lead . 
Andy seems to be doing well , said Mr , Damon . 
Yes , he has a good machine , conceded Tom . 
Five miles more were reeled off . 
Another round of that distance and Tom would key his motor up to the highest pitch , and then the Humming Bird would show what she could do . 
Eagerly Tom waited for the right signal . 
Suddenly the wireless began buzzing again . 
Quickly the young inventor clamped the receiver to his ear . 
Mr. Damon saw him turn pale . 
Gladby says dad has a turn for the worse . 
There is little hope , translated Tom . 
Will you are you going to quit ? asked Mr. Damon . 
There was to be no waiting for the signal now . 
He would begin his final spurt , and if possible finish the hundred miles at his utmost speed , win the race and then hasten to his father's side . 
With a menacing roar the motor of the Humming Bird took up the additional power that Tom sent into her . 
She shot ahead like an eagle darting after his prey . 
Tom opened up a big gap between his machine and the one nearest him , which , at that moment , was the Antoinette , with the Spaniard driving her . 
Now to win ! cried Tom , grimly . 
Surely no race was ever flown as was that one ! Tom flashed through the air so quickly that his speed was almost incredible . 
The gage registered one hundred and thirty miles an hour ! Down below in the grand stands , and on the aviation field , there were yells of approval of wonder of fear . 
But Tom and Mr. Damon could not hear them . 
They only heard the powerful song of the motor . 
Faster and faster flew the Humming Bird Tom looked down , and saw the signal put up which meant that there were but three miles more to go . 
He felt that he could do it . 
He was half a lap ahead of them all now . 
But he saw Andy Foger's machine pulling away from the bunch . 
He's going to try to catch me ! exulted Tom . 
The motor of the Humming Bird suddenly slackened its speed , it missed explosions , and the trim little craft began to drop behind . 
What's the matter ? cried Mr. Damon . 
Three of the cylinders are out of business ! yelled Tom . 
We're done for , I guess . 
On came the other machines , Andy in the lead , then the Santos Dumont , then the Farman , and lastly the Wright . 
They saw the plight of the Humming Bird and determined to beat her . 
Tom cast a despairing look up at the motor . 
There was nothing to be done . 
He could not reach it In mid air . 
He could only keep on , crippled as he was , and trust to luck . 
Andy passed by his rival with an evil smile on his ugly face . 
Then the Antoinette flashed by . 
In turn all the others left Tom in the rear Toms heart was like lead . 
Mr. Damon gazed blankly forward . 
It did not seem possible . 
There was but a single chance . 
They could be no worse off than they were . 
A mile behind ! gasped Tom . 
It's a long chance , but I'll take it . 
He shut off the power . 
the Humming Bird began to fall . 
But ere she had gone down ten feet Tom suddenly switched on the batteries . 
There was a moment of silence , and then came the welcome roar that told of the rekindled motor . 
And such a roar as it was ! Every cylinder was exploding as though none of them had ever stopped ! We did it ! yelled Tom . 
Opening up at full speed , he sent the sky racer on the course to overtake and pass his rivals . 
Slowly he crept on them . 
They looked back and saw him coming . 
They tried to put on more speed , but it was impossible . 
Andy Foger was in the lead . 
He was being slowly overhauled by the Santos Dumont , with the queer tail rudders . 
I'll get him ! muttered Tom . 
I'll pass 'em all ! And he did . 
With a wonderful burst of speed the little Humming Bird overtook one after another of her larger rivals , and passed them . 
Then she crept up on Andy's Slugger . 
There was a succession of thundering cheers as he shut off the motor , and volplaned to earth , but he paid little attention to them . 
He brought his craft to a stop just as the wireless on it buzzed again . 
He listened with a look of pain on his face . 
My father is dying , he said simply . 
I must go to him . 
Tom Swift had won one race . 
Could he win the other ? Chapter Twenty Five Home Again Conclusion Mr. Sharp pushed his way through the crowd . 
The committee has the certified check ready for you , Tom , called the balloonist . 
Will you come and get it ? Send it to me , please , answered the young inventor . 
I must go to my father . 
Huh ! I'd have beaten him in another round , boasted Andy Foger . 
No one paid any attention to him . 
Monsieur ezz plucky ! said the Frenchman , Perique . 
I am honaired to shake his hand ! He has broken all ze records ! Dot's der best machine I effer saw , spoke the Dutchman , De Tromp , ponderously . 
Shake hands ! Ver' fine , ver' good ! came from the little Japanese , and all the contestants congratulated Tom warmly . 
Never before had a hundred miles been covered so speedily . 
A man elbowed his way through the press of people . 
Is your machine fully protected by patents ? he inquired earnestly . 
It is , said Tom . 
Then , as a representative of the United States Government , I would like an option to purchase the exclusive right to use them , said the man . 
Can you guarantee that no one else has any plans of them ? It will mean a fortune to you . 
He thought of the stolen plans . 
If he could only get possession of them ! He glanced at Andy Foger , who was wheeling his machine hack into the tent . 
But there was no time now to have it out with the bully . 
I will see you again , said Tom to the government agent . 
I must go to my father , who is dying . 
I can't answer you now . 
Tom gave a hasty look to his machine , and , bidding his new friends fairwell , he and Mr. Damon took their places aboard the Humming Bird . 
The little craft rose in the air , and soon they had left Eagle Park far behind . 
Eagerly Tom strained his eyes for a sight of his home town , though he knew it would be several hours ere he could hover over it . 
Would he be in time ? Would he be in time ? That question came to him again and again . 
For a time the Humming Bird skimmed along as though she delighted in the rapid motion , in slipping through the air and sliding along on the billows of wind . 
Is she working all right ? asked Mr. Damon , anxiously , and , such was the strain on him that he did not think to bless anything . 
Is she all right , Tom , my lad ? I think so . 
I'm speeding her to the limit . 
Faster than I ever did before , but I guess she'll do . 
It was a great race , wasn't it ? asked Mr. Damon , as he shifted to an easier position in his seat . 
A great race , Tom . 
I didn't think you'd do it , one spell there . 
Neither did I , came the answer , as the young inventor changed the spark lever . 
But I made up my mind I wouldn't be beaten by Andy Foger , if I could help it . 
Though it was taking a risk to shut off the current the way I did . 
And and if the current hadn't come on again eh , Tom ? Would we ? Mr. Damon did not finish , but Tom knew what he meant . 
It would have been all up with us , he said simply . 
I might have volplaned back to earth , but at the speed we were going , and at the height , around a curve , we might have turned turtle . 
Bless my ! began Mr. Damon , and then he stopped . 
The thought of Tom's trouble came to him , and he realized that his words might grate on the feelings of his companion . 
On they rushed through the air with the Humming Bird speeded up faster and faster as she warmed to her task . 
The machinery seemed to be working perfectly , and as Tom listened to the hum a look of pleasure replaced the look of anxiety on his face . 
We've got to make it ! declared Tom between his clenched teeth . 
Bless my ! began Mr. Damon , but he got no further , for he had to bend his body as Tom did , to equalize the pressure of the wind current . 
A little farther over ! yelled the lad . 
A little farther over this way , Mr. Damon ! But if I come any more toward you I'll be out of my seat ! objected the eccentric man . 
Then Tom speeded up the motor , which he had partly shut down as they passed through the danger zone , and again they were racing through space . 
They were nearing Shopton now , as the lad and Mr. Damon could tell by the familiar landmarks which loomed up in sight . 
Tom strained his eyes for the first view of his home . 
Suddenly , as they were skimming along , there came a cessation of the hum and roar that told of the perfectly working motor . 
It was an ominous silence . 
What's what's wrong ? gasped Mr. Damon . 
Something's given way , answered Tom quickly . 
I'm afraid the magneto isn't sparking as it ought to . 
Well , can't we volplane hack to earth ? asked the odd man , for he had become familiar with this feat when anything happened to the motor . 
We could , answered Tom , but I'm not going to . 
Why not ? Because we're too far from Shopton and dad ! I'm going to keep on . 
He tried in vain to get the magneto to resume the giving out of sparks , and , failing in that , he switched on the batteries . 
But , to his horror , the dry cells had given out . 
There was no way of getting a spark unless the little electrical machine would work . 
The propellers were still whirring around by their own momentum , and if Tom could switch in the magneto in time all might yet be well . 
They had started to fall , but , by quickly bringing up the head plane tips , Tom sent his craft soaring upward again on a bank of air . 
Here ! he cried to Mr. Damon . 
Take the steering wheel and kept her on this level as long as you can . 
What are you going to do ? I've got to fix that magneto ! But if she dips down ? Throw up the head planes as I did . 
It's our only chance ! I can't go down now , so far from Shopton ! Mr. Damon reached over and took the wheel from Tom's hands . 
Then the young inventor , leaning forward , for the magneto was within easy reach , looked to see what the trouble was . 
A wire had vibrated loose from a binding post . 
In a second Tom had it in place again and , ere the propellers had ceased revolving , he had turned the switch . 
The magneto took up the work in a flash . 
Once more the spark exploded the gasoline mixture , and the propellers sent the Humming Bird swiftly ahead . 
We'll make it now ! declared Tom grimly . 
We're almost there , added Mr. Damon , as he relinquished the wheel to the young pilot . 
The craft had gone down some , but Tom sent her up again . 
Nearer and nearer home they came , until at last the spires of the Shopton churches loomed into view . 
Then he was over the village . 
Now he was within sight of his own house . 
Tom coasted down a bank of air , and brought the Humming Bird up with a jerk of the ground brakes . 
Before the wheels had ceased turning he had leaped out . 
It's Massa Tom ! cried Eradicate , as he saw Tom alight . 
The young inventor hurried into the house . 
He was met by the nurse , who held up a warning finger . 
Tom's heart almost stopped beating . 
He was aware that Dr . 
Gladby came from the room where Mr. Swift lay . 
Is he is he am I too late ? gulped Tom . 
Hush ! cautioned the nurse . 
Tom reeled , and would have fallen had not the doctor caught him , for the lad was weak and wornout . 
He is going to get well ! were the joyful words he heard , as if in a dream , and then his strength suddenly came back to him . 
The crisis is just passed , Tom , went on Dr . 
Gladby , and your father will recover , and be stronger than ever . 
Your good news of winning was like a tonic to him . 
Now let me congratulate you on the race . 
Tom had flashed by wireless a brief message of his success . 
Dad's news is better than all the congratulations in the world , he said softly , as he grasped the doctor's hand . 
It was a week later . 
Mr. Swift improved rapidly once the course of the disease was permanently checked , and he was soon able to sit up . 
Tom was with him in the room , talking of the great race , and how he had won . 
He fingered the certified check for ten thousand dollars that had just come to him by mail . 
You certainly did wonderfully well , said the aged inventor , softly . 
You may well be , added Mr. Damon . 
Bless my shoelaces , but I thought Andy Foger had us there one spell didn't you , Tom ? Indeed I did . 
But you helped me win , Mr. Damon . 
Nonsense ! exclaimed the odd man . 
You helped me a lot . 
Well , are you going to keep after more air prizes , Tom , or are you going to try for something else ? asked his father . 
I don't believe I'll go in any more aeroplane races right away , answered the young inventor . 
For some time I've been wanting to complete and perfect my electric rifle . 
I think I'll begin work on that soon . 
And go hunting ? asked Mr. Damon . 
I think so , answered Tom , dreamily . 
I don't know just where , though . 
For a few moments after Tom's announcement no one spoke , then the young inventor said It's too bad that first set of plans were stolen . 
If I had them I could make a good deal with the Government about my little aeroplane . 
But they don't want to take up with it as long as there is a chance of some foreign nation getting information about the secret parts , and my patents won't hold abroad . 
I wonder if there is any way of getting those plans away from Andy Foger ? I don't understand why he hasn't used them before this . 
I thought sure he would make a craft like the Humming Bird to race against me . 
What plans are those ? asked Mr. Swift . 
Why , don't you remember ? asked Tom . 
The ones I showed you one day , in the library , when you fell asleep , and some one slipped in and stole them . 
A curious look came over Mr. Swift's face . 
He passed his hand across his brow . 
I am beginning to remember something I have been trying to recall ever since I became ill , he said slowly . 
It is coming back to me . 
Those plans in the library I fell asleep , but before I did so I hid those plans , Tom ! You hid those plans ! Tom fairly shouted the words . 
Yes , I remember feeling a drowsy feeling coming on , and I feared lest some one might see the drawings . 
I got up and put them under the window , in a little , hollow place in the foundation wall . 
Then I came back in through the window again , and went to sleep . 
Then , on account of my illness , just as I once before forgot something , and thought the minister had called , I lost all recollection of them . 
Tom leaped to his feet . 
He rushed to the place named by his father . 
Soon his triumphant shout told of his success . 
He came hurrying back into the house with a roll of papers in his hands . 
And there were the long missing plans ! damp and stained by the weather , but all there . 
No enemy had them , and Tom's secret was safe . 
Now I can accept the Government offer ! he cried . 
And a few weeks later he made a most advantageous deal with the United States officials for his patents . 
Gladby explained that Mr. Swift's queer action was due to his illness . 
He became liable to lapses of memory , and one happened just after he hid away the plans . 
Even the hiding of them was caused by the peculiar condition of his brain . 
He had opened the library window , slipped oat with the papers , and hastened in again , to fall asleep in his chair , during the short time Tom was gone . 
And Andy Foger never took them at all , remarked Mary Nestor , when Tom was telling her about it a few days afterward . 
No. I guess I must apologize to him . 
Which Tom did , but Andy did not receive it very graciously , especially as Tom accused him of trying to destroy the Humming Bird . 
Andy denied this and denied having anything to do with the mysterious fire , and , as there was no way to prove him guilty , Tom could not proceed against him . 
So the matter was dropped . 
Mr. Swift continued to improve , and was soon himself again , and able to resume his inventive work . 
Tom received several offers to give exhibition flights at big aero meets , but refused , as he was busy on his new rifle . 
Andy Foger made several successful flights in his queer aeroplane , which turned out to be the product of a German genius who was supplied with money by Mr. Foger . 
Andy became very proud , and boasted that he and the German were going abroad to give flights in Europe . 
I'd be glad if he would , said Tom , when he heard of the plan . 
He wouldn't bother me then . 
With the money received from winning the big race , and from his contracts from the Government , Tom Swift was now in a fair way to become quite wealthy . 
