Every evening he told her that anybody with ordinary gumption ought to realize that night air was bad for the human frame . 
The human frame won't stand everything , Miss Perry , he warned her , resentfully . 
That's what my mother used to tell me when I was a boy . 
'Keep out of the night air , Virgil , she'd say . 
'Keep out of the night air . 
I expect probably her mother told her the same thing , the nurse suggested . 
My grandmother Oh , I guess your GRANDmother thought so , Mr. Adams ! That was when all this flat central country was swampish and hadn't been drained off yet . 
I guess the truth must been the swamp mosquitoes bit people and gave 'em malaria , especially before they began to put screens in their windows . 
Likely ! He thought the night air worst of all in April he hadn't a doubt it would kill him , he declared . 
It's miraculous what the human frame WILL survive , he admitted on the last evening of that month . 
She gave him his medicine , and , having set the glass upon the center table , returned to her cot , where , after a still interval , she snored faintly . 
Upon this , his expression became that of a man goaded out of overpowering weariness into irony . 
He was conscious of the city as of some single great creature resting fitfully in the dark outside his windows . 
Even while it strove to sleep it muttered with digestions of the day before , and these already merged with rumblings of the morrow . 
They pressed on his nerves , as he put it and so did almost everything else , for that matter . 
He heard the milk wagon drive into the cross street beneath his windows and stop at each house . 
The milkman carried his jars round to the back porch , while the horse moved slowly ahead to the gate of the next customer and waited there . 
He's gone into Pollocks' , Adams thought , following this progress . 
I hope it'll sour on 'em before breakfast . 
Now he's getting out ours . 
Light had just filmed the windows and with that the first sparrow woke , chirped instantly , and roused neighbours in the trees of the small yard , including a loud voiced robin . 
Vociferations began irregularly , but were soon unanimous . 
Sleep ? Dang likely now , ain't it ! Night sounds were becoming day sounds the far away hooting of freight engines seemed brisker than an hour ago in the dark . 
Loose , aboriginal laughter preceded them afar , and beat on the air long after they had gone by . 
The sick room night light , shielded from his eyes by a newspaper propped against a water pitcher , still showed a thin glimmering that had grown offensive to Adams . 
Here was a puzzle that irritated him the more because he could not solve it , yet always seemed just on the point of a solution . 
In spite of noises without , he drowsed again , not knowing that he did and when he opened his eyes the nurse was just rising from her cot . 
He took no pleasure in the sight , it may be said . 
She exhibited to him a face mismodelled by sleep , and set like a clay face left on its cheek in a hot and dry studio . 
She was still only in part awake , however , and by the time she had extinguished the night light and given her patient his tonic , she had recovered enough plasticity . 
Well , isn't that grand ! We've had another good night , she said as she departed to dress in the bathroom . 
Yes , you had another ! he retorted , though not until after she had closed the door . 
Presently he heard his daughter moving about in her room across the narrow hall , and so knew that she had risen . 
But it was his wife who came first . 
Oh , you're better again ! I can see that , as soon as I look at you , she said . 
Miss Perry tells me you've had another splendid night . 
It's a good sign to be cross it means you're practically convalescent right now . 
Oh , I am , am I ? No doubt in the world ! she exclaimed . 
Why , you're practically a well man , Virgil all except getting your strength back , of course , and that isn't going to take long . 
You'll be right on your feet in a couple of weeks from now . 
Of course you will , she repeated , absently . 
You'll be as strong as you ever were maybe stronger . 
She paused for a moment , not looking at him , then added , cheerfully , So that you can fly around and find something really good to get into . 
Meanwhile , he stared hard at her , his lips beginning to move with little distortions not lacking in the pathos of a sick man's agitation . 
So that's it , he said . 
That's what you're hinting at . 
'Hinting ? Mrs. Adams looked surprised and indulgent . 
Why , I'm not doing any hinting , Virgil . 
What did you say about my finding 'something good to get into ? he asked , sharply . 
Don't you call that hinting ? Mrs. Adams turned toward him now she came to the bedside and would have taken his hand , but he quickly moved it away from her . 
You mustn't let yourself get nervous , she said . 
But of course when you get well there's only one thing to do . 
You mustn't go back to that old hole again . 
'Old hole ? That's what you call it , is it ? In spite of his weakness , anger made his voice strident , and upon this stimulation she spoke more urgently . 
You just mustn't go back to it , Virgil . 
It's not fair to any of us , and you know it isn't . 
Don't tell me what I know , please ! She clasped her hands , suddenly carrying her urgency to plaintive entreaty . 
Virgil , you WON'T go back to that hole ? That's a nice word to use to me ! he said . 
Alone , he lay breathing rapidly , his emaciated chest proving itself equal to the demands his emotion put upon it . 
Fine ! he repeated , with husky indignation . 
And give us our daily bread ! he added , meaning that his wife's little performance was no novelty . 
They were pretty hands , of a shapeliness delicate and fine . 
However that may have been , the rest of her was well enough . 
She was often called a right pretty girl temperate praise meaning a girl rather pretty than otherwise , and this she deserved , to say the least . 
Even in repose she deserved it , though repose was anything but her habit , being seldom seen upon her except at home . 
He said that the way she used her cute hazel eyes and the wonderful glow of her facial expression gave her a mighty spiritual quality . 
Alice frequently thought it necessary to instruct her mother . 
This was a needless worry the mother had caught a thousand such glimpses , with Alice unaware , and she thought nothing of the one just flitted . 
Miss Perry's gone downstairs , and Mama , I heard you in papa's room , Alice said , not dropping the note of complaint . 
I could hear both of you , and I don't think you ought to get poor old papa so upset not in his present condition , anyhow . 
Mrs. Adams seated herself on the edge of the bed . 
He's better all the time , she said , not disturbed . 
The doctor says so and Miss Perry says so and if we don't get him into the right frame of mind now we never will . 
Well , anyhow , I think you could use a little more tact with him . 
I do try to , the mother sighed . 
It never was much use with him . 
I don't think you understand him as well as I do , Alice . 
There's one thing I don't understand about either of you , Alice returned , crisply . 
Before people get married they can do anything they want to with each other . 
Why can't they do the same thing after they're married ? When you and papa were young people and engaged , he'd have done anything you wanted him to . 
That must have been because you knew how to manage him then . 
Why can't you go at him the same way now ? Mrs. Adams sighed again , and laughed a little , making no other response but Alice persisted . 
Is that how my trying to do what I can for you strikes you ? Never mind that it's nothing to hurt your feelings . 
Alice disposed of the pathos briskly . 
Perhaps you WILL understand some day , her mother said , gently . 
Maybe you will when you've been married twenty five years . 
Why don't you answer my question right straight out ? There are questions you can't answer to young people , Alice . 
You mean because we're too young to understand the answer ? I don't see that at all . 
You may understand how you hurt me sometimes . 
Youth can't know everything by being intelligent , and by the time you could understand the answer you're asking for you'd know it , and wouldn't need to ask . 
You don't understand your father , Alice you don't know what it takes to change him when he's made up his mind to be stubborn . 
Alice rose and began to get herself into a skirt . 
Well , I don't think making scenes ever changes anybody , she grumbled . 
I think a little jolly persuasion goes twice as far , myself . 
'A little jolly persuasion ! Her mother turned the echo of this phrase into an ironic lament . 
Yes , there was a time when I thought that , too ! It didn't work that's all . 
Perhaps you left the 'jolly' part of it out , mama . 
For the second time that morning it was now a little after seven o'clock tears seemed about to offer their solace to Mrs. Adams . 
I might have expected you to say that , Alice you never do miss a chance , she said , gently . 
It seems queer you don't some time miss just ONE chance ! But Alice , progressing with her toilet , appeared to be little concerned . 
Oh , well , I think there are better ways of managing a man than just hammering at him . 
Mrs. Adams uttered a little cry of pain . 
'Hammering , Alice ? If you'd left it entirely to me , her daughter went on , briskly , I believe papa'd already be willing to do anything we want him to . 
That's it tell me I spoil everything . 
Well , I won't interfere from now on , you can be sure of it . 
Please don't talk like that , Alice said , quickly . 
I'm old enough to realize that papa may need pressure of all sorts I only think it makes him more obstinate to get him cross . 
You probably do understand him better , but that's one thing I've found out and you haven't . 
There ! She gave her mother a friendly tap on the shoulder and went to the door . 
I'll hop in and say hello to him now . 
As she went , she continued the fastening of her blouse , and appeared in her father's room with one hand still thus engaged , but she patted his forehead with the other . 
Poor old papa daddy ! she said , gaily . 
Every time he's better somebody talks him into getting so mad he has a relapse . 
It's a shame ! Her father's eyes , beneath their melancholy brows , looked up at her wistfully . 
I suppose you heard your mother going for me , he said . 
I heard you going for her , too ! Alice laughed . 
So we could all have a lot more money ? At this his sorrowful forehead was more sorrowful than ever . 
The deep horizontal lines moved upward to a pattern of suffering so familiar to his daughter that it meant nothing to her but he spoke quietly . 
Yes so we wouldn't have any money at all , most likely . 
Oh , no ! she laughed , and , finishing with her blouse , patted his cheeks with both hands . 
But upon his forehead the painful pattern still deepened . 
Don't you think we've always had enough , the way things are , Alice ? Not the way things ARE ! She patted his cheeks again laughed again . 
Don't you worry about it , though just think about other things till you get strong . 
You know , he said you know it isn't exactly the easiest thing in the world for a man of my age to find these grand openings you speak of . 
And when you've passed half way from fifty to sixty you're apt to see some risk in giving up what you know how to do and trying something new . 
My , what a frown ! she cried , blithely . 
Didn't I tell you to stop thinking about it till you get ALL well ? She bent over him , giving him a gay little kiss on the bridge of his nose . 
There ! I must run to breakfast . 
Cheer up now ! Au 'voir ! And with her pretty hand she waved further encouragement from the closing door as she departed . 
The brother , a thin and sallow boy of twenty , greeted her without much approval as she took her place . 
Nothing seems to trouble you ! he said . 
No nothing much , she made airy response . 
Walter always seems to have so many secrets ! Alice said , studying him shrewdly , but with a friendly enough amusement in her scrutiny . 
Everything he does or says seems to be acted for the benefit of some mysterious audience inside himself , and he always gets its applause . 
Alice laughed as the door closed . 
He's ALL secrets , she said . 
Don't you think you really ought to know more about him , mama ? I'm sure he's a good boy , Mrs. Adams returned , thoughtfully . 
He's been very brave about not being able to have the advantages that are enjoyed by the boys he's grown up with . 
I've never heard a word of complaint from him . 
About his not being sent to college ? Alice cried . 
I should think you wouldn't ! He didn't even have enough ambition to finish high school ! Mrs. Adams sighed . 
It seemed to me Walter lost his ambition when nearly all the boys he'd grown up with went to Eastern schools to prepare for college , and we couldn't afford to send him . 
If only your father would have listened Alice interrupted What nonsense ! Walter hated books and studying , and athletics , too , for that matter . 
He doesn't care for anything nice that I ever heard of . 
He doesn't get through until five in the afternoon he doesn't HAVE much time . 
Well , we never have dinner until about seven , and he's always late for dinner , and goes out , heaven knows where , right afterward ! Alice shook her head . 
He used to go with our friends' boys , but I don't think he does now . 
Why , how could he ? Mrs. Adams protested . 
That isn't his fault , poor child ! The boys he knew when he was younger are nearly all away at college . 
Yes , but he doesn't see anything of 'em when they're here at holiday time or vacation . 
None of 'em come to the house any more . 
I suppose he's made other friends . 
It's natural for him to want companions , at his age . 
Yes , Alice said , with disapproving emphasis . 
But who are they ? I've got an idea he plays pool at some rough place down town . 
Promise me you won't say any more to him until well , until he's able to come downstairs to table . 
Will you ? Mrs. Adams bit her lip , which had begun to tremble . 
I think you can trust me to know a FEW things , Alice , she said . 
I'm a little older than you , you know . 
That's a good girl ! Alice jumped up , laughing . 
Don't forget it's the same as a promise , and do just cheer him up a little . 
I'll say good bye to him before I go out . 
Where are you going ? Oh , I've got lots to do . 
He has some money in his bureau drawer , she said . 
He finally told me where it was . 
There were traces of emotion in her voice , and Alice , looking shrewdly at her , saw moisture in her eyes . 
You didn't do what you promised me you wouldn't , did you NOT before Miss Perry ! Miss Perry's getting him some broth , Mrs. Adams returned , calmly . 
Besides , you're mistaken in saying I promised you anything I said I thought you could trust me to know what is right . 
Poor old papa ! she said . 
It's a shame how everybody wants to trouble him . 
CHAPTER III Mrs. Adams had remained in Alice's room , but her mood seemed to have changed , during her daughter's little more than momentary absence . 
What did he SAY ? she asked , quickly , and her tone was hopeful . 
'Say ? Alice repeated , impatiently . 
Never ! The mother's response was a grieving silence she turned from her daughter and walked to the door . 
Now , for goodness' sake ! Alice cried . 
Don't go making tragedy out of my offering you a little practical advice ! I'm not , Mrs. Adams gulped , halting . 
I'm just just going to dust the downstairs , Alice . 
And with her face still averted , she went out into the little hallway , closing the door behind her . 
A moment later she could be heard descending the stairs , the sound of her footsteps carrying somehow an effect of resignation . 
Alice listened , sighed , and , breathing the words , Oh , murder ! turned to cheerier matters . 
She opened another drawer wherein were two white pasteboard boxes of cards , the one set showing simply Miss Adams , the other engraved in Gothic characters , Miss Alys Tuttle Adams . 
She went down the stairs , buttoning her gloves and still wearing the frown with which she had put Alys finally out of her life . 
She descended slowly , and paused on the lowest step , looking about her with an expression that needed but a slight deepening to betoken bitterness . 
Its connection with her dropping Alys forever was slight , however . 
The small frame house , about fifteen years old , was already inclining to become a new Colonial relic . 
The Adamses had built it , moving into it from the Queen Anne house they had rented until they took this step in fashion . 
Solid , compact , and convenient were the instructions to the architect , and he had made it compact successfully . 
For decoration there were pictures and vases . 
But it was a long time since he had shown interest in such things or in anything much , as she thought . 
Alice's glance paused upon it now with no great pride , but showed more approval of an enormous photograph of the Colosseum . 
Formerly that place had been held for years by a steel engraving , an accurate representation of the Suspension Bridge at Niagara Falls . 
It was almost as large as its successor , the Colosseum , and it had been presented to Mr. Adams by colleagues in his department at Lamb and Company's . 
She cheered him up , of course , when he gave way and her heart never misgave her that there might be a doubt which of the two pictures was the more dismaying . 
Yet here was no fault of housewifery the curse could not be lifted , as the ingrained smudges permanent on the once white woodwork proved . 
The grime was perpetually renewed scrubbing only ground it in . 
This particular ugliness was small part of Alice's discontent , for though the coating grew a little deeper each year she was used to it . 
Alice brightened a little as she went forward to the front door , and she brightened more when the spring breeze met her there . 
Perceiving that the girl was bowing to her , the globular lady hurriedly made shift to alter her injurious expression . 
Good morning , Mrs. Dowling , Alice said , gravely . 
At home it was always her husband who pulled down the shades of their bedroom window . 
Alice looked serious for a few moments after the little encounter , then found some consolation in the behaviour of a gentleman of forty or so who was coming toward her . 
Like Mrs. Dowling , he had begun to show consciousness of Alice's approach while she was yet afar off but his tokens were of a kind pleasanter to her . 
He was like Mrs. Dowling again , however , in his conception that Alice would not realize the significance of what he did . 
Alice's response was all he could have asked . 
The gentleman went on , passing from her forward vision as he replaced his hat . 
Of himself he was nothing to Alice , except for the gracious circumstance that he had shown strong consciousness of a pretty girl . 
It was not for him not even to impress him , except as a messenger . 
Alice was herself almost unaware of her thought , which was one of the running thousands of her thoughts that took no deliberate form in words . 
And she might add , For him ! Then , being twenty two , she was apt to conclude the mystic interview by laughing at herself , though not without a continued wistfulness . 
She was disturbed , however , by an unfavourable hint in the speaker's tone . 
On the contrary , these staring women obviously failed to realize that what they were being shown was not an eccentric outburst , but the bright harbinger of an illustrious mode . 
Then a splendidly shining closed black automobile , with windows of polished glass , came silently down the street toward her . 
Within it , as in a luxurious little apartment , three comely ladies in mourning sat and gossiped but when they saw Alice they clutched one another . 
The colour that outdid the rouge on Alice's cheek extended its area and grew warmer as she realized how all too cordial had been her nod and smile to these humorous ladies . 
She tucked it under her arm , not swinging it again and her breath became quick and irregular as emotion beset her . 
These Lamb women thought her and her cane ridiculous , did they ? she said to herself . 
That was their parvenu blood to think because a girl's father worked for their grandfather she had no right to be rather striking in style , especially when the striking WAS her style . 
Men were just like sheep , and nothing was easier than for women to set up as shepherds and pen them in a fold . 
To keep out outsiders , Alice thought . 
And make 'em believe I AM an outsider . 
A moment later , having arrived before the house which was her destination , she halted at the entrance to a driveway leading through fine lawns to the intentionally important mansion . 
It was a pleasant and impressive place to be seen entering , but Alice did not enter at once . 
She paused , examining a tiny bit of mortar which the masons had forgotten to scrape from a brick in one of the massive gate posts . 
She frowned at this tiny defacement , and with an air of annoyance scraped it away , using the ferrule of her cane an act of fastidious proprietorship . 
If any one had looked back over his shoulder he would not have doubted that she lived there . 
Alice did not turn to see whether anything of the sort happened or not , but she may have surmised that it did . 
At all events , it was with an invigorated step that she left the gateway behind her and went cheerfully up the drive to the house of her friend Mildred . 
CHAPTER IV Adams had a restless morning , and toward noon he asked Miss Perry to call his daughter he wished to say something to her . 
I thought I heard her leaving the house a couple of hours ago maybe longer , the nurse told him . 
And she returned from the brief errand , her impression confirmed by information from Mrs. Adams . 
She went up to Miss Mildred Palmer's to see what she's going to wear to night . 
A man's best course , he had found , was just to let it go as so much sound . 
Obviously Miss Perry also comprehended why Alice thought it important to know what Mildred meant to wear . 
There they go ! he muttered to day , a moment after he heard the front door closing , a sound recognizable throughout most of the thinly built house . 
Alice had just returned , and Mrs. Adams called to her from the upper hallway , not far from Adams's door . 
What did she SAY ? She was sort of snippy about it , Alice returned , ascending the stairs . 
She gets that way sometimes , and pretended she hadn't made up her mind , but I'm pretty sure it'll be the maize Georgette with Malines flounces . 
Didn't you say she wore that at the Pattersons' ? Mrs. Adams inquired , as Alice arrived at the top of the stairs . 
And didn't you tell me she wore it again at the Certainly not , Alice interrupted , rather petulantly . 
She's never worn it but once , and of course she wouldn't want to wear anything to night that people have seen her in a lot . 
Miss Perry opened the door of Adams's room and stepped out . 
Your father wants to know if you'll come and see him a minute , , Miss Adams . 
Poor old thing ! Of course ! Alice exclaimed , and went quickly into the room , Miss Perry remaining outside . 
What's the matter , papa ? Getting awful sick of lying on his tired old back , I expect . 
I've had kind of a poor morning , Adams said , as she patted his hand comfortingly . 
I been thinking Didn't I tell you not to ? she cried , gaily . 
Of course you'll have poor times when you go and do just exactly what I say you mustn't . 
You stop thinking this very minute ! He smiled ruefully , closing his eyes was silent for a moment , then asked her to sit beside the bed . 
I been thinking of something I wanted to say , he added . 
What like , papa ? Well , it's nothing much , he said , with something deprecatory in his tone , as if he felt vague impulses toward both humour and apology . 
I just thought maybe I ought to've said more to you some time or other about well , about the way things ARE , down at Lamb and Company's , for instance . 
Now , papa ! She leaned forward in the chair she had taken , and pretended to slap his hand crossly . 
I just thought maybe it wouldn't been any harm if some time or other I told you something about the way they sort of depend on me down there . 
Why don't they show it , then ? she asked , quickly . 
That's just what mama and I have been feeling so much they don't appreciate you . 
Why , yes , they do , he said . 
They began h'isting my salary the second year I went in there , and they've h'isted it a little every two years all the time I've worked for 'em . 
I've been head of the sundries department for seven years now , and I could hardly have more authority in that department unless I was a member of the firm itself . 
They call me their 'oldest stand by' down there . 
He laughed again , apologetically , as if to excuse himself for taking a little pride in this title . 
But you said they depended on you , papa . 
So they do but of course not so's they couldn't get along without me . 
I don't just seem to know how to put it I mean how to put what I started out to say . 
I kind of wanted to tell you well , it seems funny to me , these last few years , the way your mother's taken to feeling about it . 
His voice had become tremulous in spite of him and this sign of weakness and emotion had sufficient effect upon Alice . 
She bent over him suddenly , with her arm about him and her cheek against his . 
Poor papa ! she murmured . 
Poor papa ! No , no , he said . 
I didn't mean anything to trouble you . 
I just thought He hesitated . 
I just wondered I thought maybe it wouldn't be any harm if I said something about how things ARE down there . 
I got to thinking maybe you didn't understand it's a pretty good place . 
They're fine people to work for and they've always seemed to think something of me the way they took Walter on , for instance , soon as I asked 'em , last year . 
Don't you think that looked a good deal as if they thought something of me , Alice ? Yes , papa , she said , not moving . 
And the work's right pleasant , he went on . 
Mighty nice boys in our department , Alice . 
Well , they are in all the departments , for that matter . 
We have a good deal of fun down there some days . 
More than you do at home 'some days , I expect , papa ! she said . 
Now , I didn't mean that I didn't want to trouble you She looked at him through winking eyelashes . 
I'm sorry I called it a 'hole , papa . 
No , no , he protested , gently . 
It was your mother said that . 
No. I did , too . 
Well , if you did , it was only because you'd heard her . 
She shook her head , then kissed him . 
I'm going to talk to her , she said , and rose decisively . 
But at this , her father's troubled voice became quickly louder You better let her alone . 
I just wanted to have a little talk with you . 
I didn't mean to start any your mother won't Now , papa ! Alice spoke cheerfully again , and smiled upon him . 
I want you to quit worrying ! Everything's going to be all right and nobody's going to bother you any more about anything . 
What's the matter , Alice ? What did he say that's upset you ? Wait a minute , mama . 
Alice found a handkerchief , used it for eyes and suffused nose , gulped , then suddenly and desolately sat upon the bed . 
Poor , poor , POOR papa ! she whispered . 
Why ? Mrs. Adams inquired , mildly . 
What's the matter with him ? Sometimes you act as if he weren't getting well . 
What's he been talking about ? Mama well , I think I'm pretty selfish . 
Oh , that's what he was up to ! Mama , I think we ought to give it up . 
I didn't dream it had really hurt him . 
Well , doesn't he hurt us ? Never that I know of , mama . 
I don't mean by SAYING things , Mrs. Adams explained , impatiently . 
There are more ways than that of hurting people . 
When a man sticks to a salary that doesn't provide for his family , isn't that hurting them ? Oh , it 'provides' for us well enough , mama . 
We have what we need if I weren't so extravagant . 
Oh , I know I am ! But at this admission her mother cried out sharply . 
'Extravagant ! You haven't one tenth of what the other girls you go with have . 
And you CAN'T have what you ought to as long as he doesn't get out of that horrible place . 
It provides bare food and shelter for us , but what's that ? I don't think we ought to try any more to change him . 
You don't ? Mrs. Adams came and stood before her . 
Listen , Alice your father's asleep that's his trouble , and he's got to be waked up . 
He doesn't know that things have changed . 
When you and Walter were little children we did have enough at least it seemed to be about as much as most of the people we knew . 
But the town isn't what it was in those days , and times aren't what they were then , and these fearful PRICES aren't the old prices . 
Everything else but your father has changed , and all the time he's stood still . 
Walter doesn't cost him anything at all any more . 
And she concluded , in a stricken voice , It's all me ! Why shouldn't it be ? her mother cried . 
You're young you're just at the time when your life should be fullest of good things and happiness . 
Yet what do you get ? Alice's lip quivered she was not unsusceptible to such an appeal , but she contrived the semblance of a protest . 
I don't have such a bad time not a good DEAL of the time , anyhow . 
I've got a good MANY of the things other girls have You have ? Mrs. Adams was piteously satirical . 
Apparently in a single instant all emotion left her , and she became businesslike , as one in the midst of trifles reminded of really serious matters . 
She got up from the bed and went to the door of the closet where she kept her dresses . 
Oh , see here , she said , briskly . 
I've decided to wear my white organdie if you could put in a new lining for me . 
I'm afraid it'll take you nearly all afternoon . 
She brought forth the dress , displayed it upon the bed , and Mrs. Adams examined it attentively . 
Do you think you could get it done , mama ? I don't see why not , Mrs. Adams answered , passing a thoughtful hand over the fabric . 
It oughtn't to take more than four or five hours . 
It's a shame to have you sit at the machine that long , Alice said , absently , adding , And I'm sure we ought to let papa alone . 
Let's just give it up , mama . 
Mrs. Adams continued her thoughtful examination of the dress . 
Did you buy the chiffon and ribbon , Alice ? Yes . 
I'm sure we oughtn't to talk to him about it any more , mama . 
Let's both agree that we'll NEVER say another single word to him about it , said Alice . 
It'll be a great deal better if we just let him make up his mind for himself . 
She continued to sketch them , not heeding the summons . 
I suppose we'd better go down to lunch , Mrs. Adams said , absently . 
She's at the gong again . 
In a minute , mama . 
Now about the sleeves And she went on with her planning . 
Unfortunately the gong was inexpressive of the mood of the person who beat upon it . 
It consisted of three little metal bowls upon a string they were unequal in size , and , upon being tapped with a padded stick , gave forth vibrations almost musically pleasant . 
Mrs. Adams took this increased frequency to be only another manifestation of the inexplicable new difficulties that beset all housekeeping . 
You paid a cook double what you had paid one a few years before and the cook knew half as much of cookery , and had no gratitude . 
Nevertheless , Mrs. Adams remained fitfully an optimist in the matter . 
The present incumbent was not she . 
Finally the sound of a hearty voice , independent and enraged , reached the pair . 
It came from the hall below . 
I says goo' BYE ! it called . 
Da'ss all ! Then the front door slammed . 
Why , what Mrs. Adams began . 
They went down hurriedly to find out . 
I couldn't make her listen to reason , she said . 
She rang the gong four or five times and got to talking to herself and then she went up to her room and packed her bag . 
I told her she had no business to go out the front door , anyhow . 
Mrs. Adams took the news philosophically . 
I thought she had something like that in her eye when I paid her this morning , and I'm not surprised . 
Well , we won't let Mr. Adams know anything's the matter till I get a new one . 
But it was Alice who washed the dishes . 
I DON'T like to have you do that , Alice , her mother protested , following her into the kitchen . 
It roughens the hands , and when a girl has hands like yours I know , mama . 
Alice looked troubled , but shook her head . 
It can't be helped this time you'll need every minute to get that dress done . 
Mrs. Adams went away lamenting , while Alice , no expert , began to splash the plates and cups and saucers in the warm water . 
She saw herself dancing with him , saw the half troubled smile she would give him and she accurately smiled that smile as she rinsed the knives and forks . 
These hopeful fragments of drama were not to be realized , she knew but she played that they were true , and went on creating them . 
And upon her present whole horizon , though she searched it earnestly , she could discover no figure of a sender of flowers . 
Out of her fancies the desire for flowers to wear that night emerged definitely and became poignant she began to feel that it might be particularly important to have them . 
This might be the night ! She was still at the age to dream that the night of any dance may be the vital point in destiny . 
No matter how commonplace or disappointing other dance nights have been this one may bring the great meeting . 
The unknown magnifico may be there . 
Alice was almost unaware of her own reveries in which this being appeared reveries often so transitory that they developed and passed in a few seconds . 
Anything might reveal them to each other a look , a turn of the head , a singular word perhaps some flowers upon her breast or in her hand . 
She wiped the dishes slowly , concluding the operation by dropping a saucer upon the floor and dreamily sweeping the fragments under the stove . 
She sighed and replaced the broom near a window , letting her glance wander over the small yard outside . 
They remained upon it for several moments , becoming less absent . 
Alice ran upstairs , put on her hat , went outdoors and began to search out the violets . 
She found twenty two , a bright omen since the number was that of her years but not enough violets . 
There were no more she had ransacked every foot of the yard . 
She went to a trolley line and took a car to the outskirts of the city where a new park had been opened . 
Here she resumed her search , but it was not an easily rewarded one , and for an hour after her arrival she found no violets . 
Her mother moaned when Alice showed them to her , fragrant in a basin of water . 
I've got 'em and I AM going to have a good time to night ! You've just got to ! Mrs. Adams agreed , intensely sympathetic . 
The Lord knows you deserve to , after picking all these violets , poor thing , and He wouldn't be mean enough to keep you from it . 
I may have to get dinner before I finish the dress , but I can get it done in a few minutes afterward , and it's going to look right pretty . 
It would only have given him longer to grumble . 
But he might Don't worry , Mrs. Adams reassured her . 
He'll be a little cross , but he won't be stubborn just let me talk to him and don't you say anything at all , no matter what HE says . 
These references to Walter concerned some necessary manoeuvres which took place at dinner , and were conducted by the mother , Alice having accepted her advice to sit in silence . 
Mrs. Adams began by laughing cheerfully . 
I wonder how much longer it took me to cook this dinner than it does Walter to eat it ? she said . 
Don't gobble , child ! There's no hurry . 
In contact with his own family Walter was no squanderer of words . 
Is for me , he said . 
I know you have , but there's plenty of time . 
He smiled in benevolent pity . 
YOU know , do you ? If you made any coffee don't bother if you didn't . 
He seemed about to rise and depart whereupon Alice , biting her lip , sent a panic stricken glance at her mother . 
But Mrs. Adams seemed not at all disturbed and laughed again . 
Why , what nonsense , Walter ! I'll bring your coffee in a few minutes , but we're going to have dessert first . 
What sort ? Some lovely peaches . 
Doe' want 'ny canned peaches , said the frank Walter , moving back his chair . 
Walter ! It doesn't begin till about nine o'clock at the earliest . 
What doesn't ? The dance . 
What dance ? Why , Mildred Palmer's dance , of course . 
What's that to me ? Why , you haven't forgotten it's TO NIGHT , have you ? Mrs. Adams cried . 
What a boy ! I told you a week ago I wasn't going to that ole dance , he returned , frowning . 
I got your clothes all out this afternoon , and brushed them for you . 
They'll look very nice , and They won't look nice on ME , he interrupted . 
Got date down town , I tell you . 
But of course you'll See here ! Walter said , decisively . 
Don't get any wrong ideas in your head . 
I'm just as liable to go up to that ole dance at the Palmers' as I am to eat a couple of barrels of broken glass . 
But , Walter Walter was beginning to be seriously annoyed . 
Don't 'Walter' me ! I'm no s'ciety snake . 
I wouldn't jazz with that Palmer crowd if they coaxed me with diamonds . 
Walter Didn't I tell you it's no use to 'Walter' me ? he demanded . 
My dear child Oh , Glory ! At this Mrs. Adams abandoned her air of amusement , looked hurt , and glanced at the demure Miss Perry across the table . 
I'm afraid Miss Perry won't think you have very good manners , Walter . 
You're right she won't , he agreed , grimly . 
YOUR friends ! he said , and , rising from his chair , gave utterance to an ironical laugh strictly monosyllabic . 
Your friends ! he repeated , going to the door . 
Oh , yes ! Certainly ! Good NIGHT ! And looking back over his shoulder to offer a final brief view of his derisive face , he took himself out of the room . 
Alice gasped Mama I'll stop him ! her mother responded , sharply and hurried after the truant , catching him at the front door with his hat and raincoat on . 
Walter Told you had a date down town , he said , gruffly , and would have opened the door , but she caught his arm and detained him . 
Walter , please come back and finish your dinner . 
When I take all the trouble to cook it for you , I think you might at least Now , now ! he said . 
That isn't what you're up to . 
You don't want to make me eat you want to make me listen . 
Well , you MUST listen ! She retained her grasp upon his arm , and made it tighter . 
Walter , please ! she entreated , her voice becoming tremulous . 
PLEASE don't make me so much trouble ! He drew back from her as far as her hold upon him permitted , and looked at her sharply . 
Look here ! he said . 
All the other girls have somebody to depend on after they get there . 
Well , why doesn't she have somebody ? he asked , testily . 
You know why they don't run after her the way they do the other girls she goes with , Walter . 
It's because we're poor , and she hasn't got any background . 
'Background ? What kind of talk is that ? You WILL go with her to night , Walter ? his mother pleaded , not stopping to enlighten him . 
You WILL Walter's heart was not iron , and the episode of the violets may have reached it . 
Oh , BLUB ! he said , and flung his soft hat violently at the wall . 
His mother beamed with delight . 
THAT'S a good boy , darling ! You'll never be sorry you Cut it out , he requested . 
If I take her , will you pay for a taxi ? Oh , Walter ! And again Mrs. Adams showed distress . 
What's the matter you payin' for one ? I haven't any money . 
Well , father She shook her head dolefully . 
I got some from him this morning , and I can't bother him for any more it upsets him . 
He's ALWAYS been so terribly close with money I guess he couldn't help that , Walter observed . 
We're liable to go to the poorhouse the way it is . 
Again his mother shook her head . 
Well , darn the luck , all right ! he consented , explosively . 
I'll get her something to ride in . 
It means seventy five cents . 
Why , Walter ! Mrs. Adams cried , much pleased . 
Do you know how to get a cab for that little ? How splendid ! Tain't a cab , Walter informed her crossly . 
It's a tin Lizzie , but you don't haf' to tell her what it is till I get her into it , do you ? Mrs. Adams agreed that she didn't . 
CHAPTER VI Alice was busy with herself for two hours after dinner but a little before nine o'clock she stood in front of her long mirror , completed , bright eyed and solemn . 
Miss Perry , called in by a rapturous mother for the free treat of a look at this radiance , insisted that Alice was a vision . 
Purely and simply a vision ! she said , meaning that no other definition whatever would satisfy her . 
I never saw anybody look a vision if she don't look one to night , the admiring nurse declared . 
Her papa'll think the same I do about it . 
You see if he doesn't say she's purely and simply a vision . 
Adams did not fulfil the prediction quite literally when Alice paid a brief visit to his room to show him and bid him good night but he chuckled feebly . 
Well , well , well ! he said . 
You look mighty fine MIGHTY fine ! And he waggled a bony finger at her two bouquets . 
Why , Alice , who's your beau ? Never you mind ! she laughed , archly brushing his nose with the violets in her hand . 
Have a good time , dearie . 
I mean to ! she cried and she repeated this gaily , but with an emphasis expressing sharp determination as she left him . 
I MEAN to ! What was he talking about ? her mother inquired , smoothing the rather worn and old evening wrap she had placed on Alice's bed . 
What were you telling him you 'mean to ? Alice went back to her triple mirror for the last time , then stood before the long one . 
Well , there's one thing , said Alice . 
What's that , mama ? It's it's your father's raincoat . 
I thought you'd put it on over But I won't need it in a taxicab . 
You will to get in and out , and you needn't take it into the Palmers' . 
You can leave it in the in the It's drizzling , and you'll need it . 
Oh , well , Alice consented and a few minutes later , as with Walter's assistance she climbed into the vehicle he had provided , she better understood her mother's solicitude . 
What on earth IS this , Walter ? she asked . 
Never mind it'll keep you dry enough with the top up , he returned , taking his seat beside her . 
I mean what kind is it ? Haven't you got eyes ? It's too dark . 
It's a second hand tin Lizzie , said Walter . 
D'you know what that means ? It means a flivver . 
Got 'ny 'bjections ? Why , no , dear , she said , placatively . 
Is it yours , Walter ? Have you bought it ? Me ? he laughed . 
I couldn't buy a used wheelbarrow . 
I rent this sometimes when I'm goin' out among 'em . 
Costs me seventy five cents and the price o' the gas . 
I guess it is ! The feller owes me some money , and this is the only way I'd ever get it off him . 
Is he a garage keeper ? Not exactly ! Walter uttered husky sounds of amusement . 
You'll be just as happy , I guess , if you don't know who he is , he said . 
His tone misgave her and she said truthfully that she was content not to know who owned the car . 
I joke sometimes about how you keep things to yourself , she added , but I really never do pry in your affairs , Walter . 
Oh , no , you don't ! Indeed , I don't . 
Yes , you're mighty nice and cooing when you got me where you want me , he jeered . 
Well , I just as soon tell you where I get this car . 
I'd just as soon you wouldn't , Walter , she said , hurriedly . 
But Walter meant to tell her . 
Why , there's nothin' exactly CRIMINAL about it , he said . 
It belongs to old J. A. Lamb himself . 
He keeps it for their coon chauffeur . 
I rent it from him . 
From Mr. LAMB ? No from the coon chauffeur . 
Sure I do ! I can get it any night when the coon isn't goin' to use it himself . 
Well , you WILL make the folks make me take you to parties ! he said . 
I got to do it the best way I CAN , don't I ? Then as she made no response , Oh , the car's CLEAN enough , he said . 
This coon , he's as particular as any white man you needn't worry about that . 
And as she still said nothing , he added gruffly , I'd of had a better car if I could afforded it . 
You needn't get so upset about it . 
I don't understand she said in a low voice I don't understand how you know such people . 
Such people as who ? As coloured chauffeurs . 
Oh , look here , now ! he protested , loudly . 
He paused , seeming to await a refutation but as none came , he expressed himself definitely They make me sick . 
They were coming near their destination , and the glow of the big , brightly lighted house was seen before them in the wet night . 
Alice clutched Walter's arm in a panic they were just at the driveway entrance . 
Walter , we mustn't go in there . 
What's the matter ? Leave this awful car outside . 
Why , I Stop ! she insisted , vehemently . 
Flivver runabout got the wrong number ! he said . 
Did he SEE us ? Alice cried . 
Did who see us ? Harvey Malone in that foreign coupe . 
No he couldn't tell who we were under this top , Walter assured her as he brought the little car to a standstill beside the curbstone , out in the street . 
What's it matter if he did , the big fish ? Alice responded with a loud sigh , and sat still . 
Well , want to go on back ? Walter inquired . 
No , NO ! What you expect to do ? Sit HERE all night ? No , leave the car here . 
I don't care where we leave it , he said . 
Sit still till I lock her , so none o' these millionaires around here'll run off with her . 
He got out with a padlock and chain and , having put these in place , offered Alice his hand . 
Come on , if you're ready . 
Wait , she said , and , divesting herself of the raincoat , handed it to Walter . 
Please leave this with your things in the men's dressing room , as if it were an extra one of your own , Walter . 
He nodded she jumped out and they scurried through the drizzle . 
As they reached the porte cochere she began to laugh airily , and spoke to the impassive man in livery who stood there . 
Joke on us ! she said , hurrying by him toward the door of the house . 
Our car broke down outside the gate . 
Alice nodded to one or another of these , and went quickly on , her face uplifted and smiling but Walter detained her at the door to which she hastened . 
Listen here , he said . 
I suppose you want me to dance the first dance with you If you please , Walter , she said , meekly . 
What's the matter now ? he asked . 
That's Jazz Louie and his half breed bunch three white and four mulatto . 
Let's ? No , no , she whispered . 
We must speak to Mildred and Mr. and Mrs. Palmer . 
He repeated his yawn and was beginning another when a convulsive pressure upon his arm made him understand that he must abandon this method of reassuring himself . 
They were close upon the floral bower . 
And behind this perfection there was an even ampler perfection of what Mrs. Adams called background . 
The big , rich , simple house was part of it , and Mildred's father and mother were part of it . 
When the opportunity came for Alice and Walter to pass within this precinct , Alice , going first , leaned forward and whispered in Mildred's ear . 
You DIDN'T wear the maize georgette ! That's what I thought you were going to . 
With a faint accession of colour and a smile tending somewhat in the direction of rigidity , she carried Alice's hand immediately onward to Mrs. Palmer's . 
But she did not speak of it to Walter she preferred not to confirm the impression and to leave in her mind a possible doubt that he had done it . 
He followed her out upon the waxed floor , said resignedly Well , come on , put his arm about her , and they began to dance . 
Alice danced gracefully and well , but not so well as Walter . 
No other dancer in the room could be thought comparable to him . 
It's wonderful ! she said . 
I don't see why , when you dance like this , you always make such a fuss about coming to parties . 
He sounded his brief laugh , a jeering bark out of one side of the mouth , and swung her miraculously through a closing space between two other couples . 
You know a lot about what goes on , don't you ? You prob'ly think there's no other place to dance in this town except these frozen face joints . 
'Frozen face ? she echoed , laughing . 
Why , everybody's having a splendid time . 
Oh , they holler loud enough , he said . 
They do it to make each other think they're havin' a good time . 
You don't call that Palmer family frozen face berries , I s'pose . 
They're just dignified and Yeuh ! said Walter . 
They're dignified , 'specially when you tried to whisper to Mildred to show how IN with her you were , and she moved you on that way . 
SHE'S a hot friend , isn't she ! She didn't mean anything by it . 
She Ole Palmer's a hearty , slap you on the back ole berry , Walter interrupted adding in a casual tone , All I'd like , I'd like to hit him . 
Walter ! By the way , you mustn't forget to ask Mildred for a dance before the evening is over . 
Me ? He produced the lop sided appearance of his laugh , but without making it vocal . 
You watch me do it ! She probably won't have one left , but you must ask her , anyway . 
Why must I ? Because , in the first place , you're supposed to , and , in the second place , she's my most intimate friend . 
Yeuh ? Is she ? I've heard you pull that 'most intimate friend' stuff often enough about her . 
What's SHE ever do to show she is ? Never mind . 
You really must ask her , Walter . 
I want you to and I want you to ask several other girls afterwhile I'll tell you who . 
Keep on wanting it'll do you good . 
Oh , but you really Listen ! he said . 
I'm just as liable to dance with any of these fairies as I am to buy a bucket o' rusty tacks and eat 'em . 
Forget it ! Soon as I get rid of you I'm goin' back to that room where I left my hat and overcoat and smoke myself to death . 
They stood near one of the wide doorways , remaining where they had stopped . 
You NAUGHTY old Walter ! she cried . 
AREN'T you ashamed to be such a wonderful dancer and then only dance with your own little sister ! You could dance on the stage if you wanted to . 
Cut it out , he said . 
You better be givin' some of these berries the eye so they'll ask you to dance . 
She was not to be so easily checked , and laughed loudly , flourishing her violets in his face again . 
Besides , I'm no muley cow . 
A 'COW ? she laughed . 
What on earth I can't eat dead violets , he explained . 
So don't keep tryin' to make me do it . 
These crowds of other girls had all done their best , also , to look beautiful , though not one of them had worked so hard for such a consummation as Alice had . 
They did not need to they did not need to get their mothers to make old dresses over they did not need to hunt violets in the rain . 
And Alice remembered that she had heard a girl say , not long before , Oh , ORGANDIE ! Nobody wears organdie for evening gowns except in midsummer . 
In fact , it was beginning to make her face ache a little . 
Mildred came in from the corridor , heavily attended . 
Alice looked dubiously at her own bouquet . 
She decided to get rid of them . 
Look here ! he said . 
You MUSTN'T leave me , Walter , she whispered , hastily . 
Somebody'll come for me before long , but until they do Well , couldn't you sit somewhere ? No , no ! There isn't any one I could sit with . 
Well , why not ? Look at those ole dames in the corners . 
Older men , husbands of these ladies and fathers of eligible girls , were also to be seen , most of them with Mr. Palmer in a billiard room across the corridor . 
Mr. and Mrs. Adams had not been invited . 
And her smiling lip twitched a little threateningly , as she concluded the silent monologue . 
I suppose she thinks I ought to be glad enough she asked Walter ! Walter was , in fact , rather noticeable . 
on account of a kind of coiffuring he favoured , his hair having been shaped after what seemed a Mongol inspiration . 
Only upon the top of the head was actual hair perceived , the rest appearing to be nudity . 
Whenever he uttered it Alice laughed , too , as loudly as she could , to cover it . 
How long we goin' to stand here ? My feet are sproutin' roots . 
She was still upon this ghostly errand when a furious outbreak of drums and saxophones sounded a prelude for the second dance . 
Walter danced with her again , but he gave her a warning . 
I don't want to leave you high and dry , he told her , but I can't stand it . 
I got to get somewhere I don't haf' to hurt my eyes with these berries I'll go blind if I got to look at any more of 'em . 
I'm goin' out to smoke as soon as the music begins the next time , and you better get fixed for it . 
Alice tried to get fixed for it . 
Across the room sat the globular lady she had encountered that morning , and beside the globular lady sat a round headed , round bodied girl her daughter , at first glance . 
Like Walter , he was declining to dance a third time with sister he wished to go elsewhere . 
I'm on my way , said Walter . 
There's the music startin' up again , and I told you She nodded gratefully . 
It's all right but come back before long , Walter . 
The globular young man , red with annoyance , had torn himself from his family and was hastening across the room to her . 
C'n I have this dance ? Why , you nice Frank Dowling ! Alice cried . 
How lovely ! CHAPTER VII They danced . 
Mr. Dowling should have found other forms of exercise and pastime . 
Nature has not designed everyone for dancing , though sometimes those she has denied are the last to discover her niggardliness . 
He held her up valiantly , and continued to beat a path through the crowd of other dancers by main force . 
Her cheery partner was paddling his rosy brows with a fine handkerchief . 
That was great ! he said . 
Let's go out and sit in the corridor they've got some comfortable chairs out there . 
Well let's not , she returned . 
I believe I'd rather stay in here and look at the crowd . 
No that isn't it , he said , chiding her with a waggish forefinger . 
You think if you go out there you'll miss a chance of someone else asking you for the next dance , and so you'll have to give it to me . 
How absurd ! Then , after a look about her that revealed nothing encouraging , she added graciously , You can have the next if you want it . 
Great ! he exclaimed , mechanically . 
Now let's get out of here out of THIS room , anyhow . 
Why ? What's the matter with My mother , Mr. Dowling explained . 
But don't look at her . 
She keeps motioning me to come and see after Ella , and I'm simply NOT going to do it , you see ! Alice laughed . 
Oh , no I wouldn't say that . 
No , she don't , he protested , innocently . 
She don't know you more than just to speak to , you see . 
So how could she ? Well , she does . 
A frown appeared upon his rounded brow . 
No I'll tell you the way she feels . 
And then about me , you see , if she had her way I wouldn't get to dance with anybody at all except girls like Mildred Palmer and Henrietta Lamb . 
So that's why you dance with me . 
No , I like to , he protested . 
I rather dance with you than I do with those girls . 
And he added with a retrospective determination which showed that he had been through quite an experience with Mrs. Dowling in this matter . 
I TOLD mother I would , too ! Did it take all your courage , Frank ? He looked at her shrewdly . 
Now you're trying to tease me , he said . 
Of course I know almost all the other fellows get along with those girls all right but I don't waste any time on 'em I don't have to . 
I like people that are always cordial to everybody , you see the way you are . 
Thank you , she said , thoughtfully . 
Oh , I MEAN it , he insisted . 
There goes the band again . 
Shall we ? Suppose we sit it out ? she suggested . 
I believe I'd like to go out in the corridor , after all it's pretty warm in here . 
Never before had Alice seen anything like this in her friend's manner . 
How queer ! she murmured . 
What's queer ? Dowling inquired as they sat down . 
Who was that man ? Haven't you met him ? I never saw him before . 
Who is he ? Why , it's this Arthur Russell . 
What Arthur Russell ? I never heard of him . 
Why , THAT'S funny ! Only the last time I saw you , you were telling me how awfully well you knew Mildred Palmer . 
Why , certainly I do , Alice informed him . 
She's my most intimate friend . 
I must say it looks a good deal that way to me , myself . 
What nonsense ! Alice exclaimed . 
She's never even mentioned him to me . 
The young man glanced at her dubiously and passed a finger over the tiny prong that dashingly composed the whole substance of his moustache . 
Well , you see , Mildred IS pretty reserved , he remarked . 
This Russell is some kind of cousin of the Palmer family , I understand . 
He is ? Yes second or third or something , the girls say . 
Well , Ella says a lot of the girls have been talking about Mildred and this Arthur Russell for quite a while back , you see . 
Of course , while Mildred IS my most intimate friend , she said , I don't mean she tells me everything and naturally she has other friends besides . 
What else did your sister say she told them about this Mr. Russell ? Well , it seems he's VERY well off at least Henrietta Lamb told Ella he was . 
Ella says Alice interrupted again , with an increased irritability . 
Oh , never mind what Ella says ! Let's find something better to talk about than Mr. Russell ! Well , I'M willing , Mr. Dowling assented , ruefully . 
She was disquieted by more than Mildred's reserve , though reserve so marked had certainly the significance of a warning that Alice's definition , my most intimate friend , lacked sanction . 
Indirect notice to this effect could not well have been more emphatic , but the sting of it was left for a later moment . 
Something else preoccupied Alice she had just been surprised by an odd experience . 
In Alice's eyes , Mildred had been blessed enough something ought to be left over , by this time , for another girl . 
Of course ! These rich always married one another . 
Well , what DO you want to talk about ? he inquired . 
Suppose we just sit , Frank . 
But a moment later she remembered something , and , with a sudden animation , began to prattle . 
She pointed to the musicians down the corridor . 
Oh , look at them ! Look at the leader ! Aren't they FUNNY ? Someone told me they're called 'Jazz Louie and his half breed bunch . 
Isn't that just crazy ? Don't you love it ? Do watch them , Frank . 
The latter already reposed in the obscurity selected for it at the base of one of the box trees . 
Then she was abruptly silent . 
You certainly are a funny girl , Dowling remarked . 
I say so ! Well , what'll we do NOW ? Talk , or just sit ? Suppose we just sit some more . 
, Anything to oblige , he assented . 
I'm willing to sit as long as you like . 
But even as he made his amiability clear in this matter , the peace was threatened his mother came down the corridor like a rolling , ominous cloud . 
She was looking about her on all sides , in a fidget of annoyance , searching for him , and to his dismay she saw him . 
She immediately made a horrible face at his companion , beckoned to him imperiously with a dumpy arm , and shook her head reprovingly . 
He should have known better , the instant result was Mrs. Dowling in motion at an impetuous waddle . 
I think your mother wants to speak to you , Frank , Alice said , upon this advent . 
Mrs. Dowling nodded to her . 
Good evening , Miss Adams , she said . 
I just thought as you and Frank weren't dancing you wouldn't mind my disturbing you Not at all , Alice murmured . 
Mr. Dowling seemed of a different mind . 
Well , what DO you want ? he inquired , whereupon his mother struck him roguishly with her fan . 
Bad fellow ! She turned to Alice . 
I'm sure you won't mind excusing him to let him do something for his old mother , Miss Adams . 
What DO you want ? the son repeated . 
Two very nice things , Mrs. Dowling informed him . 
Miss Adams isn't interested in all this , mother . 
But Henrietta came to speak to Ella and me , and I told her you were so anxious to dance with her Here ! he cried . 
Look here ! I'd rather do my own Yes that's just it , Mrs. Dowling explained . 
So I thought you'd better see her as soon as possible . 
Dowling's face had become rosy . 
I refuse to do anything of the kind . 
Bad fellow ! said his mother , gaily . 
I'm sure Miss Adams won't mind if you Not at all , Alice said . 
Well , I mind ! he said . 
I wish you COULD understand that when I want to dance with any girl I don't need my mother to ask her for me . 
I really AM more than six years old ! He spoke with too much vehemence , and Mrs. Dowling at once saw how to have her way . 
Women understand that ancient weakness , of course for it is one of their most important means of defense , but can be used ignobly . 
Mrs. Dowling permitted a tremulousness to become audible in her voice . 
It isn't very very pleasant to be talked to like that by your own son before strangers ! Oh , my ! Look here ! the stricken Dowling protested . 
I didn't say anything , mother . 
I was just joking about how you never get over thinking I'm a little boy . 
I only Mrs. Dowling continued I just thought I was doing you a little favour . 
I didn't think it would make you so angry . 
I think you'd better go , Frank . 
There ! his mother cried . 
Alice went in search of Walter , but without much hope of finding him . 
What he did with himself at frozen face dances was one of his most successful mysteries , and her present excursion gave her no clue leading to its solution . 
When the musicians again lowered their instruments for an interval she had returned , alone , to her former seat within the partial shelter of the box trees . 
She awaits a devoted man who may return at any instant . 
Other people desired to sit in Alice's nook , but discovered her in occupancy . 
She had learned to do it perfectly . 
She had learned it during the last two years she was twenty when for the first time she had the shock of finding herself without an applicant for one of her dances . 
And Alice may have been too eager to secure new retainers , too kind in her efforts to keep the old ones . 
She had been a belle too soon . 
For a girl who has been a belle , it is harder to live through these bad times than it is for one who has never known anything better . 
She wanted to tell them they were no better than that and it seemed a cruel thing of heaven to let them go on believing themselves young lords . 
They were doing nothing , killing time . 
Wasn't she at her lowest value at least a means of killing time ? Evidently the mean beeves thought not . 
And when one of them finally lounged across the corridor and spoke to her , he was the very one to whom she preferred her loneliness . 
Waiting for somebody , Lady Alicia ? he asked , negligently and his easy burlesque of her name was like the familiarity of the rest of him . 
Gloss is the most shining outward mark of the type . 
None of this is allowed to interfere with business these are good business men , and often make large fortunes . 
They are men of imagination about two things women and money , and , combining their imaginings about both , usually make a wise first marriage . 
Later , however , they are apt to imagine too much about some little woman without whom life seems duller than need be . 
They run away , leaving the first wife well enough dowered . 
They are never intentionally unkind to women , and in the end they usually make the mistake of thinking they have had their money's worth of life . 
Alice made no response to his question , and he dropped lazily into the vacant chair , from which she sharply withdrew her hand . 
I might as well use his chair till he comes , don't you think ? You don't MIND , do you , old girl ? Oh , no , Alice said . 
It doesn't matter one way or the other . 
Please don't call me that . 
So that's how you feel ? Mr. Malone laughed indulgently , without much interest . 
I've been meaning to come to see you for a long time honestly I have because I wanted to have a good talk with you about old times . 
The truth is there wasn't any reason I just happened to have a lot of important things to do and couldn't find the time . 
But I AM going to call on you some evening honestly I am . 
I don't wonder you think You're mistaken , Alice said . 
I've never thought anything about it at all . 
Well , well ! he said , and looked at her languidly . 
What's the use of being cross with this old man ? He always means well . 
And , extending his arm , he would have given her a friendly pat upon the shoulder but she evaded it . 
Well , well ! he said . 
Seems to me you're getting awful tetchy ! Don't you like your old friends any more ? Not all of them . 
Who's the new one ? he asked , teasingly . 
Come on and tell us , Alice . 
Who is it you were holding this chair for ? Never mind . 
Well , all I've got to do is to sit here till he comes back then I'll see who it is . 
He may not come back before you have to go . 
Guess you got me THAT time , Malone admitted , laughing as he rose . 
They're tuning up , and I've got this dance . 
I AM coming around to see you some evening . 
She walked quickly down the broad corridor , turned into the broader hall , and hurriedly entered the dressing room where she had left her wraps . 
Perhaps I could help you with that buckle , Miss , she suggested , approaching . 
Has it come loose ? Alice wrenched desperately then it was loose . 
The competent woman , producing needle and thread , deftly made the buckle fast and there was nothing for Alice to do but to express her gratitude and go . 
She went to the door of the cloak room opposite , where a coloured man stood watchfully in the doorway . 
I wonder if you know which of the gentlemen is my brother , Mr. Walter Adams , she said . 
Could you tell me where he is ? No'm I couldn't say . 
Well , if you see him , would you please tell him that his sister , Miss Adams , is looking for him and very anxious to speak to him ? Yes'm . 
Sho'ly , sho'ly ! As she went away he stared after her and seemed to swell with some bursting emotion . 
In fact , it was too much for him , and he suddenly retired within the room , releasing strangulated laughter . 
I cain' he'p it , man , the laughter explained . 
I cain' he'p it ! You sut'n'y the beatin'es' white boy 'n 'is city ! The dancers were swinging into an encore as Alice halted for an irresolute moment in a doorway . 
Her matron was constrained to go so far as to supply a tolerant nod , now and then , in complement to the girl's animation , and Alice was grateful for the nods . 
She needed no pretense to seek the dressing room for repairs after that number this time they were necessary and genuine . 
Dowling waited for her , and when she came out he explained for the fourth or fifth time how the accident had happened . 
It was entirely those other people's fault , he said . 
It was Charlotte Thom's diamond crescent pin that got caught on your dress in the back and made such a Never mind , Alice said in a tired voice . 
The maid fixed it so that she says it isn't very noticeable . 
Well , it isn't , he returned . 
You could hardly tell there'd been anything the matter . 
Where do you want to go ? Mother's been interfering in my affairs some more and I've got the next taken . 
I was sitting with Mrs. George Dresser . 
You might take me back there . 
Then she found her friend Mildred standing before her , presenting Mr. Arthur Russell , who asked her to dance with him . 
Alice looked uncertain , as though not sure what her engagements were but her perplexity cleared she nodded , and swung rhythmically away with the tall applicant . 
She was not grateful to her hostess for this alms . 
What a young hostess does with a fiance , Alice thought , is to make him dance with the unpopular girls . 
She supposed that Mr. Arthur Russell had already danced with Ella Dowling . 
I wonder what Mildred told him , she thought . 
Probably she said , 'Dearest , there's one more girl you've got to help me out with . 
You wouldn't like her much , but she dances well enough and she's having a rotten time . 
Nobody ever goes near her any more . 
Here was a friendly soul , it appeared , who probably liked everybody . 
Mildred will be looking for you , she said . 
I think you'd better take me back to where you found me . 
Oh , I wonder if you she began . 
Yes ? he said , quickly . 
You don't know my brother , Walter Adams , she said . 
Thank you so much for that dance . 
I'll bring your brother in a moment . 
It was to be a long moment , Alice decided , presently . 
Mrs. Dresser had grown restive and her nods and vague responses to her young dependent's gaieties were as meager as they could well be . 
Evidently the matron had no intention of appearing to her world in the light of a chaperone for Alice Adams and she finally made this clear . 
So Alice was left very much against the wall , with short stretches of vacant chairs on each side of her . 
She had come to the end of her picture making , and could only pretend that there was something amusing the matter with the arm of her chair . 
She supposed that Mildred's Mr. Russell had forgotten Walter by this time . 
I'm not even an intimate enough friend of Mildred's for him to have thought he ought to bother to tell me he couldn't find him , she thought . 
And then she saw Russell coming across the room toward her , with Walter beside him . 
Oh , thank you ! she cried . 
I know this naughty boy must have been terribly hard to find . 
Mildred'll NEVER forgive me ! I've put you to so much Not at all , he said , amiably , and went away , leaving the brother and sister together . 
Walter , let's dance just once more , Alice said , touching his arm placatively . 
I thought well , perhaps we might go home then . 
But Walter's expression was that of a person upon whom an outrage has just been perpetrated . 
We've stayed THIS long , I'm goin' to wait and see what they got to eat . 
And you look here ! He turned upon her angrily . 
I was shootin' dice with those coons in the cloak room . 
And he saw you ? Unless he was blind ! said Walter . 
Come on , I'll dance this one more dance with you . 
Supper comes after that , and THEN we'll go home . 
Mrs. Adams heard Alice's key turning in the front door and hurried down the stairs to meet her . 
Did you get wet coming in , darling ? she asked . 
Oh , I'm so glad you had a nice time , Mrs. Adams said , as they reached the door of her daughter's room together . 
Just put 'em back where they were or else up in the attic anywhere you want to . 
Do you mind if I read one , mama ? Mrs. Adams laughed again . 
Oh , I guess you can if you want to . 
I expect they're pretty funny ! Alice laughed in response , and chose the topmost letter of the packet . 
My dear , beautiful girl , it began and she stared at these singular words . 
They gave her a shock like that caused by overhearing some bewildering impropriety and , having read them over to herself several times , she went on to experience other shocks . 
Now it is all so different because your letter has arrived and besides I have got a piece of news I believe you will think as fine as I do . 
Darling , you will be surprised , so get ready to hear about a big effect on our future . 
In return I guess I have got about the best boss in this world and I believe you will think so too . 
From New Years on he is going to put me in entire charge of the sundries dept . 
and what do you think is going to be my salary ? Eleven hundred cool dollars a year . 
That's all ! Just only a cool eleven hundred per annum ! Well , I guess that will show your mother whether I can take care of you or not . 
And oh how I would like to see your dear , beautiful , loving face when you get this news . 
Would you be glad ? Well , darling , this settles everything and makes our future just about as smooth for us as anybody could ask . 
I know I am not any poet and the one I tried to write about you the day of the picnic was fearful but the way I THINK about you is a poem . 
Write me what you think of the news . 
I know but write me anyhow . 
I'll get it before we start home and I can be reading it over all the time on the tram . 
Upon her face there had fallen a look of wonder . 
For the first time she was vaguely perceiving that life is everlasting movement . 
Until this moment , Alice had no conviction that there was a universe before she came into it . 
She had always thought of it as the background of herself the moon was something to make her prettier on a summer night . 
But this old letter , through which she saw still flickering an ancient starlight of young love , astounded her . 
And so she , herself , must pass to such changes , too , and all that now seemed vital to her would be nothing . 
When her work was finished , that afternoon , she went into her father's room . 
Alice would have gone out softly , but without opening his eyes , he spoke to her Don't go , dearie . 
Come sit with the old man a little while . 
She brought a chair near his . 
I thought you were napping . 
No. I don't hardly ever do that . 
I just drift a little sometimes . 
How do you mean you drift , papa ? He looked at her vaguely . 
Oh , I don't know . 
They get a little mixed up old times with times still ahead , like planning what to do , you know . 
That's as near a nap as I get when the pictures mix up some . 
I suppose it's sort of drowsing . 
She took one of his hands and stroked it . 
What do you mean when you say you have pictures like 'planning what to do' ? she asked . 
I mean planning what to do when I get out and able to go to work again . 
But that doesn't need any planning , Alice said , quickly . 
You're going back to your old place at Lamb's , of course . 
Adams closed his eyes again , sighing heavily , but made no other response . 
Why , of COURSE you are ! she cried . 
What are you talking about ? His head turned slowly toward her , revealing the eyes , open in a haggard stare . 
I heard you the other night when you came from the party , he said . 
I know what was the matter . 
Indeed , you don't , she assured him . 
You don't know anything about it , because there wasn't anything the matter at all . 
Don't you suppose I heard you crying ? What'd you cry for if there wasn't anything the matter ? Just nerves , papa . 
It wasn't anything else in the world . 
Never mind , he said . 
She promised me not to ! At that Adams laughed mournfully . 
It wouldn't be very likely I'd hear you so upset and not ask about it , even if she didn't come and tell me on her own hook . 
You needn't try to fool me I tell you I know what was the matter . 
The only matter was I had a silly fit , Alice protested . 
It did me good , too . 
How's that ? Because I've decided to do something about it , papa . 
That isn't the way your mother looks at it , Adams said , ruefully . 
She thinks it's our place to do something about it . 
Well , I don't know I don't know everything seems so changed these days . 
You've always been a good daughter , Alice , and you ought to have as much as any of these girls you go with she's convinced me she's right about THAT . 
The trouble is He faltered , apologetically , then went on , I mean the question is how to get it for you . 
I guess that's something we just have to leave work out itself . 
What you going to do with a boy nineteen or twenty years old that makes his own living ? Can't whip him . 
Can't keep him locked up in the house . 
Just got to hope he'll learn better , I suppose . 
Of course it was awful that this that this Mr. Russell should In spite of her , the recollection choked her . 
Yes , it was awful , Adams agreed . 
Oh , me , my ! But Alice recovered herself at once , and showed him a cheerful face . 
Well , just a few years from now I probably won't even remember it ! I believe hardly anything amounts to as much as we think it does at the time . 
What I've been thinking , papa it seems to me I ought to DO something . 
What like ? She looked dreamy , but was obviously serious as she told him Well , I mean I ought to be something besides just a kind of nobody . 
I ought to She paused . 
What , dearie ? Well there's one thing I'd like to do . 
I'm sure I COULD do it , too . 
What ? I want to go on the stage I know I could act . 
I just thought of something . 
But she persisted until he had to explain . 
It made me think of your mother's sister , your Aunt Flora , that died when you were little , he said . 
I had to go out in the hall to laugh ! Maybe you were wrong , Alice said , gravely . 
If they both felt it , why wouldn't that look as if there was talent in the family ? I've ALWAYS thought No , dearie , he said , with a final chuckle . 
Your mother and Flora weren't different from a good many others . 
I expect ninety per cent . 
of all the women I ever knew were just sure they'd be mighty fine actresses if they ever got the chance . 
Well , I guess it's a good thing they enjoy thinking about it and it don't do anybody any harm . 
For several days she had thought almost continuously of a career to be won by her own genius . 
Not that she planned details , or concerned herself with first steps her picturings overleaped all that . 
No , I haven't forgotten you , Mrs. Russell . 
I remember you quite pleasantly , in fact . 
You were a Miss Palmer , I recall , in those funny old days . 
Very kind of you , I'm shaw . 
I appreciate your eagerness to do something for me in your own little home . 
As you say , a reception WOULD renew my acquaintanceship with many old friends but I'm shaw you won't mind my mentioning that I don't find much inspiration in these provincials . 
I really must ask you not to press me . 
Her father knew nothing whatever of the stage , and she was aware of his ignorance , yet for some reason his innocently skeptical amusement reduced her bright project almost to nothing . 
Is this LIFE ? Alice wondered , not doubting that the question was original and all her own . 
Furthermore , Frincke here publicly offered personal instruction and training in practical mathematics , bookkeeping , and all branches of the business life , including stenography , typewriting , etc . 
Alice halted for a moment , frowning at this signboard as though it were something surprising and distasteful which she had never seen before . 
Yet it was conspicuous in a busy quarter she almost always passed it when she came down town , and never without noticing it . 
Nor was this the first time she had paused to lift toward it that same glance of vague misgiving . 
The building was not what the changeful city defined as a modern one , and the dusty wooden stairway , as seen from the pavement , disappeared upward into a smoky darkness . 
So would the footsteps of a girl ascending there lead to a hideous obscurity , Alice thought an obscurity as dreary and as permanent as death . 
She hated the place , and yet she seldom hurried by it or averted her eyes . 
It had an unpleasant fascination for her , and a mysterious reproach , which she did not seek to fathom . 
She walked on thoughtfully to day and when , at the next corner , she turned into the street that led toward home , she was given a surprise . 
Arthur Russell came rapidly from behind her , lifting his hat as she saw him . 
Are you walking north , Miss Adams ? he asked . 
Do you mind if I walk with you ? She was not delighted , but seemed so . 
He's been quite ill , poor man , and he's so particular but what in the world do I know about cigars ? Russell laughed . 
I could never have pronounced it . 
His discovery of Walter's device for whiling away the dull evening had shamed and distressed her but she would have suffered no less if almost any other had been the discoverer . 
At twenty two this state of affairs is not unique . 
So far as Alice was concerned Russell might have worn a placard , Engaged . 
She looked upon him as diners entering a restaurant look upon tables marked Reserved the glance , slightly discontented , passes on at once . 
Or so the eye of a prospector wanders querulously over staked and established claims on the mountainside , and seeks the virgin land beyond unless , indeed , the prospector be dishonest . 
But Alice was no claim jumper so long as the notice of ownership was plainly posted . 
Perhaps the clerk thought you wanted the cigars for yourself , Russell suggested . 
He may have taken you for a Spanish countess . 
Would you have taken me for one , Mr. Russell ? she asked , as she concluded the impersonation . 
I ? Why , yes , he said . 
I'D take you for anything you wanted me to . 
Why , what a speech ! she cried , and , laughing , gave him a quick glance in which there glimmered some real surprise . 
He was looking at her quizzically , but with the liveliest appreciation . 
Her surprise increased and she was glad that he had joined her . 
To be seen walking with such a companion added to her pleasure . 
Shouldn't I have said it ? he asked . 
Would you rather not be taken for a Spanish countess ? That isn't it , she explained . 
You said I said I'd take you for whatever you wanted me to . 
Isn't that all right ? It would all depend , wouldn't it ? Of course it would depend on what you wanted . 
Oh , no ! she laughed . 
It might depend on a lot of things . 
Then your young brother told you where I found him , did he ? I kept my face straight at the time , but I laughed afterward to myself . 
It struck me as original , to say the least his amusing himself with those darkies . 
Walter IS original , Alice said and , having adopted this new view of her brother's eccentricities , she impulsively went on to make it more plausible . 
He's a very odd boy , and I was afraid you'd misunderstand . 
In the family we think he'll probably write about them some day . 
Are you ? Russell asked , smiling . 
I ? Oh She paused , lifting both hands in a charming gesture of helplessness . 
Never had he seen a creature so plastic or so wistful . 
Here was a contrast to his cousin Mildred , who was not wistful , and controlled any impulses toward plasticity , if she had them . 
By George ! he said . 
But you ARE different ! With that , there leaped in her such an impulse of roguish gallantry as she could never resist . 
She turned her head , and , laughing and bright eyed , looked him full in the face . 
From whom ? she cried . 
From everybody ! he said . 
You knew what I was thinking and I knew you knew . 
Yes , she said with cool humour . 
How intimate that seems to make us all at once ! Russell left no doubt that he was delighted with these gaieties of hers . 
By George ! he exclaimed again . 
You were talking to some old ladies , and I asked Mildred who you were . 
Oh , so Mildred DIDN'T Alice checked herself . 
Who did she tell you I was ? She just said you were a Miss Adams , so I 'A' Miss Adams ? Alice interrupted . 
Then I said I'd like to meet you . 
You thought you'd save me from the old ladies . 
No. I thought I'd save myself from some of the girls Mildred was getting me to dance with . 
This Mr. Arthur Russell was a much more responsive person than one had supposed . 
So , Mr. Russell , you don't know anything about me except what you thought when you first saw me ? Yes , I know I was right when I thought it . 
You haven't told me what you thought . 
I thought you were like what you ARE like . 
Not very definite , is it ? I'm afraid you shed more light a minute or so ago , when you said how different from Mildred you thought I was . 
That WAS definite , unfortunately ! I didn't say it , Russell explained . 
I thought it , and you read my mind . 
That's the sort of girl I thought you were one that could read a man's mind . 
Why do you say 'unfortunately' you're not like Mildred ? Alice's smooth gesture seemed to sketch Mildred . 
Of all the girls I know I believe she's played the fewest really petty tricks . 
She's Russell interrupted he looked perplexed . 
You say she's perfectly perfect , but that she does play SOME Alice laughed , as if at his sweet innocence . 
Men are so funny ! she informed him . 
Of course girls ALL do mean things sometimes . 
My own career's just one long brazen smirch of 'em ! What I mean is , Mildred's perfectly perfect compared to the rest of us . 
I see , he said , and seemed to need a moment or two of thoughtfulness . 
But I shouldn't call that treacherous , exactly . 
Well , THEY do , Alice laughed . 
It's made me a terribly unpopular character ! I do a lot of things they hate . 
For instance , at a dance I'd a lot rather find some clever old woman and talk to her than dance with nine tenths of these nonentities . 
I usually do it , too . 
But you danced as if you liked it . 
You danced better than any other girl I This flattery of yours doesn't quite turn my head , Mr. Russell , Alice interrupted . 
Particularly since Mildred only gave you Ella Dowling to compare with me ! Oh , no , he insisted . 
There were others and of course Mildred , herself . 
Oh , of course , yes . 
Well She paused , then added , I certainly OUGHT to dance well . 
I SAID you were a mind reader ! he exclaimed . 
That's exactly what I was pretending to be afraid you might do . 
'Pretending ? That's nicer of you . 
No it's not my mania . 
What is ? Oh , nothing in particular that I know of just now . 
Of course I've had the usual one the one that every girl goes through . 
I don't mean we all want to go on the stage , but we all think we'd be wonderful if we did . 
Oh , she wouldn't confess it to you you'd have to know her a great deal better than any man can ever know her to find out . 
I see , he said . 
Girls are always telling us we can't know them . 
I wonder if you She took up his thought before he expressed it , and again he was fascinated by her quickness , which indeed seemed to him almost telepathic . 
Oh , but DON'T we know one another , though ! she cried . 
Such things we have to keep secret things that go on right before YOUR eyes ! Why don't some of you tell us ? he asked . 
Too much honour ? No. Not even too much honour among thieves , Mr. Russell . 
We don't tell you about our tricks against one another because we know it wouldn't make any impression on you . 
The tricks aren't played against you , and you have a soft side for cats with lovely manners ! What about your tricks against us ? Oh , those ! Alice laughed . 
We think they're rather cute ! Bravo ! he cried , and hammered the ferrule of his stick upon the pavement . 
What's the applause for ? For you . 
What you said was like running up the black flag to the masthead . 
It was just a modest little sign in a pretty flower bed 'Gentlemen , beware ! I see I must , he said , gallantly . 
She won't tell you she's not the sort that ever makes a confession . 
But Russell had not followed her shift to the former topic . 
'Mildred's not being an exception ? he said , vaguely . 
I don't An exception about thinking she could be wonderful thing on the stage if she only cared to . 
If you asked her I'm pretty sure she'd say , 'What nonsense ! Mildred's the dearest , finest thing anywhere , but you won't find out many things about her by asking her . 
Russell's expression became more serious , as it did whenever his cousin was made their topic . 
You think not ? he said . 
You think she's No. But it's not because she isn't sincere exactly . 
It's only because she has such a lot to live up to . 
She has to live up to being a girl on the grand style to herself , I mean , of course . 
And without pausing Alice rippled on , You ought to have seen ME when I had the stage fever ! I used to play 'Juliet' all alone in my room . 
No wonder you had the fever , Russell observed . 
Why didn't you finish the line ? Which one ? 'Lest thy love prove likewise variable' ? Juliet was saying it to a MAN , you know . 
She seems to have been ready to worry about his constancy pretty early in their affair ! Her companion was again thoughtful . 
Yes , he said , seeming to be rather irksomely impressed with Alice's suggestion . 
Yes it does appear so . 
Alice glanced at his serious face , and yielded to an audacious temptation . 
You mustn't take it so hard , she said , flippantly . 
It isn't about you it's only about Romeo and Juliet . 
See here ! he exclaimed . 
Do you dislike my mind reading ? she asked , and , across their two just touching shoulders , gave him her sudden look of smiling wistfulness . 
Do you hate it ? He shook his head . 
No , I don't , he said , gravely . 
How lovely ! she cried . 
Our walk is nearly over . 
We're coming to the foolish little house where I live . 
It's a queer little place , but my father's so attached to it the family have about given up hope of getting him to build a real house farther out . 
He doesn't mind our being extravagant about anything else , but he won't let us alter one single thing about his precious little old house . 
Well ! She halted , and gave him her hand . 
Adieu ! I couldn't , he began hesitated , then asked I couldn't come in with you for a little while ? Not now , she said , quickly . 
You can come She paused . 
When ? Almost any time . 
She turned and walked slowly up the path , but he waited . 
You can come in the evening if you like , she called back to him over her shoulder . 
Soon ? As soon as you like ! She waved her hand then ran indoors and watched him from a window as he went up the street . 
He walked rapidly , a fine , easy figure , swinging his stick in a way that suggested exhilaration . 
Alice , staring after him through the irregular apertures of a lace curtain , showed no similar buoyancy . 
Upon the instant she closed the door all sparkle left her she had become at once the simple and sometimes troubled girl her family knew . 
What is going on out there ? her mother asked , approaching from the dining room . 
Oh , nothing , Alice said , indifferently , as she turned away . 
That Mr. Russell met me downtown and walked up with me . 
Mr. Russell ? Oh , the one that's engaged to Mildred ? Well I don't know for certain . 
He didn't seem so much like an engaged man to me . 
CHAPTER XI After that , she went to her room and sat down before her three leaved mirror . 
There was where she nearly always sat when she came into her room , if she had nothing in mind to do . 
She went to that chair as naturally as a dog goes to his corner . 
She leaned forward , observing her profile gravity seemed to be her mood . 
Subsequently she ran through them , facing herself in full . 
In this manner she outlined a playful scenario for her next interview with Arthur Russell but grew solemn again , thinking of the impression she had already sought to give him . 
Nevertheless , she knew she would go on with her false , fancy colourings of this nothing as soon as she saw him again she had just been practicing them . 
What's the idea ? she wondered . 
The nucleus of some queer thing seemed to gather and shape itself behind the nothingness of the reflected eyes until it became almost an actual strange presence . 
In a flutter she jumped up and went to another part of the room . 
This slight glow , still faintly radiant , was observed across the dinner table by Walter , but he misinterpreted it . 
Oh , you never saw me ! I passed you close enough to pull a tooth , but you were awful busy . 
I never did see anybody as busy as you get , Alice , when you're towin' a barge . 
Mrs. Adams laughed benevolently she was not displeased with this rallying . 
Well , what of it , Walter ? she asked . 
If you happen to see your sister on the street when some nice young man is being attentive to her Walter barked and then cackled . 
Whoa , Sal ! he said . 
You got the parts mixed . 
It's little Alice that was 'being attentive . 
I know the big fish she was attentive to , all right , too . 
Yes , his sister retorted , quietly . 
I should think you might have recognized him , Walter . 
Still harpin' on THAT ! he complained . 
The kind of women I like , if they get sore they just hit you somewhere on the face and then they're through . 
By the way , I heard this Russell was supposed to be your dear , old , sweet friend Mildred's steady . 
What you doin' walkin' as close to him as all that ? Mrs. Adams addressed her son in gentle reproof , Why Walter ! Oh , never mind , mama , Alice said . 
To the horrid all things are horrid . 
Get out ! Walter protested , carelessly . 
I heard all about this Russell down at the shop . 
Young Joe Lamb's such a talker I wonder he don't ruin his grandfather's business he keeps all us cheap help standin' round listening to him nine tenths of our time . 
Sort of a keep the money in the family arrangement , Joe Lamb says . 
I don't see she began . 
Why , this Russell's supposed to be tied up to Mildred , her son explained . 
When ole Palmer dies this Russell will be his son in law , and all he'll haf' to do'll be to barely lift his feet and step into the ole man's shoes . 
It's certainly a mighty fat hand me out for this Russell ! You better lay off o' there , Alice . 
Pick somebody that's got less to lose and you'll make better showing . 
Mrs. Adams's air of thoughtfulness had not departed . 
But you say this Mr. Russell is well off on his own account , Walter . 
Oh , Joe Lamb says he's got some little of his own . 
Well , then Walter laughed his laugh . 
Cut it out , he bade her . 
Alice wouldn't run in fourth place . 
Alice had been looking at him in a detached way , as though estimating the value of a specimen in a collection not her own . 
Yes , she said , indifferently . 
You REALLY are vulgar , Walter . 
He had finished his meal and , rising , he came round the table to her and patted her good naturedly on the shoulder . 
Good ole Allie ! he said . 
HONEST , you wouldn't run in fourth place . 
If I was you I'd never even start in the class . 
That frozen face gang will rule you off the track soon as they see your colours . 
Walter ! his mother said again . 
Well , ain't I her brother ? he returned , seeming to be entirely serious and direct , for the moment , at least . 
I like the ole girl all right . 
Fact is , sometimes I'm kind of sorry for her . 
But what's it all ABOUT ? Alice cried . 
Simply because you met me down town with a man I never saw but once before and just barely know ! Why all this palaver ? 'Why ? he repeated , grinning . 
Well , I've seen you start before , you know ! He went to the door , and paused . 
I got no date to night . 
Take you to the movies , you care to go . 
No , thanks ! Come on , he said , as pleasantly as he knew how . 
Give me a chance to show you a better time than we had up at that frozen face joint . 
I'll get you some chop suey afterward . 
No , thanks ! All right , he responded and waved a flippant adieu . 
Perhaps I ought to have gone with him . 
It might have kept him away from whatever dreadful people are his friends at least for one night . 
Oh , I'm sure Walter's a GOOD boy , Mrs. Adams said , soothingly and this was what she almost always said when either her husband or Alice expressed such misgivings . 
He's odd , and he's picked up right queer manners but that's only because we haven't given him advantages like the other young men . 
But I'm sure he's a GOOD boy . 
She reverted to the subject a little later , while she washed the dishes and Alice wiped them . 
Of course Walter could take his place with the other nice boys of the town even yet , she said . 
I mean , if we could afford to help him financially . 
They all belong to the country clubs and have cars and Let's don't go into that any more , mama , the daughter begged her . 
What's the use ? It COULD be of use , Mrs. Adams insisted . 
It could if your father But papa CAN'T . 
I think he's right about it , too , of course ! Mrs. Adams splashed among the plates with a new vigour heightened by an old bitterness . 
Oh , yes , she said . 
He talks that way but he knows better . 
How could he 'know better , mama ? HE knows how ! But what does he know ? Mrs. Adams tossed her head . 
Little as his work at Lamb's brings in , I wouldn't be so silly as to ask him to give it up just on a CHANCE he could find something else . 
Good gracious , Alice , you must give me credit for a little intelligence once in a while ! Alice was puzzled . 
But what else could there be except a chance ? I don't see Well , I do , her mother interrupted , decisively . 
That man could make us all well off right now if he wanted to . 
We could have been rich long ago if he'd ever really felt as he ought to about his family . 
What ! Why , how could You know how as well as I do , Mrs. Adams said , crossly . 
I guess you haven't forgotten how he treated me about it the Sunday before he got sick . 
She went on with her work , putting into it a sudden violence inspired by the recollection but Alice , enlightened , gave utterance to a laugh of lugubrious derision . 
Oh , the GLUE factory again ! she cried . 
How silly ! And she renewed her laughter . 
So often do the great projects of parents appear ignominious to their children . 
Mrs. Adams's conception of a glue factory as a fairy godmother of this family was an absurd old story which Alice had never taken seriously . 
Then , for years , the preposterous subject had not been mentioned possibly because of some explosion on the part of Adams , when his daughter had not been present . 
But during the last year Mrs. Adams had quietly gone back to these old hints , reviving them at intervals and also reviving her husband's irritation . 
But this Sunday rampage appeared to be the end of it , and when Adams came down to dinner , an hour later , he was unusually cheerful . 
I thought you'd got over all that nonsense , mama , she said . 
Mrs. Adams smiled , pathetically . 
Of course you think it's nonsense , dearie . 
Young people think everything's nonsense that they don't know anything about . 
Good gracious ! Alice cried . 
I should think I used to hear enough about that horrible old glue factory to know something about it ! No , her mother returned patiently . 
You've never heard anything about it at all . 
I haven't ? No. Your father and I didn't discuss it before you children . 
All you ever heard was when he'd get in such a rage , after we'd been speaking of it , that he couldn't control himself when you came in . 
Wasn't I always quiet ? Did I ever go on talking about it ? No perhaps not . 
But you're talking about it now , mama , after you promised never to mention it again . 
I promised not to mention it to your father , said Mrs. Adams , gently . 
I haven't mentioned it to him , have I ? Ah , but if you mention it to me I'm afraid you WILL mention it to him . 
I SEE ! What do you see ? You HAVE been at him about it ! Not one single word ! No ! Alice cried . 
If we didn't have any children I'd be glad to do your father's cooking and the housework and the washing and ironing , too , for the rest of my life . 
I'm a poor cook and a poor housekeeper I don't do anything well but it would be good enough for just him and me . 
I wouldn't ever utter one word of com Oh , goodness ! Alice lamented . 
What IS it all about ? It's about this , said Mrs. Adams , swallowing . 
You and Walter are a new generation and you ought to have the same as the rest of the new generation get . 
We aren't precisely 'starving , are we ? Mrs. Adams began to weep . 
All I can do is cry , while your father sits upstairs , and his horn of plenty But Alice interrupted with a peal of desperate laughter . 
Oh , that 'horn of plenty ! Do come down to earth , mama . 
It could ! You don't understand a thing about it . 
Well , I'm willing , Alice said , with tired skepticism . 
Make me understand , then . 
Where'd you ever get the idea ? Mrs. Adams withdrew her hands from the water , dried them on a towel , and then wiped her eyes with a handkerchief . 
Your father could make a fortune if he wanted to , she said , quietly . 
At least , I don't say a fortune , but anyhow a great deal more than he does make . 
Yes , I've heard that before , mama , and you think he could make it out of a glue factory . 
What I'm asking is How ? How ? Why , by making glue and selling it . 
Well , your father knows how to make as good a glue as there is in the world . 
What of it ? I suppose probably anybody could make it if they wanted to . 
I SAID you didn't know anything about it . 
Nobody else could make it . 
Your father knows a formula for making it . 
What of that ? It's a secret formula . 
It isn't even down on paper . 
It's worth any amount of money . 
'Any amount ? Alice said , remaining incredulous . 
Did he invent it ? Partly , Mrs. Adams said , looking somewhat preoccupied . 
He and another man invented it . 
Then maybe the other man He's dead . 
Then his family I don't think he left any family , Mrs. Adams said . 
Anyhow , it belongs to your father . 
At least it belongs to him as much as it does to any one else . 
Poor mama ! she said . 
Of course he knows it wouldn't do anything of the kind , or else he'd have done it long ago . 
He would , you say ? her mother cried . 
That only shows how little you know him ! Poor mama ! Alice said again , soothingly . 
If papa were like what you say he is , he'd be why , he'd be crazy ! Mrs. Adams agreed with a vehemence near passion . 
You can't build even a glue factory with just one little finger . 
Mrs. Adams seemed about to reply that finding fault with a figure of speech was beside the point but a ringing of the front door bell forestalled the retort . 
Now , who do you suppose that is ? she wondered aloud , then her face brightened . 
Ah did Mr. Russell ask if he could No , he wouldn't be coming this evening , Alice said . 
Probably it's the great J. A. Lamb he usually stops for a minute on Thursdays to ask how papa's getting along . 
She tossed her apron off , and as she went through the house her expression was thoughtful . 
She was thinking vaguely about the glue factory and wondering if there might be something in it after all . 
CHAPTER XII The fine old gentleman revealed when she opened the door was probably the last great merchant in America to wear the chin beard . 
White as white frost , it was trimmed short with exquisite precision , while his upper lip and the lower expanses of his cheeks were clean and rosy from fresh shaving . 
Files of old magazines of that period might show him , in woodcut , as , Type of Boston Merchant Nast might have drawn him as an honest statesman . 
He was eighty , hale and sturdy , not aged and his quick blue eyes , still unflecked , and as brisk as a boy's , saw everything . 
Well , well , well ! he said , heartily . 
You haven't lost any of your good looks since last week , I see , Miss Alice , so I guess I'm to take it you haven't been worrying over your daddy . 
The young feller's getting along all right , is he ? He's much better he's sitting up , Mr. Lamb . 
Won't you come in ? Well , I don't know but I might . 
'Presentable ? The old man echoed her jovially . 
Pshaw ! I've seen lots of sick folks . 
I know what they look like and how they love to kind of nest in among a pile of old blankets and wrappers . 
Don't you worry about THAT , Miss Alice , if you think he'd like to see me . 
Of course he would if Alice hesitated then said quickly , Of course he'd love to see you and he's quite able to , if you care to come up . 
She ran up the stairs ahead of him , and had time to snatch the crocheted wrap from her father's shoulders . 
Swathed as usual , he was sitting beside a table , reading the evening paper but when his employer appeared in the doorway he half rose as if to come forward in greeting . 
Sit still ! the old gentleman shouted . 
This is certainly mighty fine of you , Mr. Lamb , he said . 
I guess Alice has told you how much our whole family appreciate your coming here so regularly to see how this old bag o' bones was getting along . 
Haven't you , Alice ? Yes , papa , she said and turned to go out , but Lamb checked her . 
Stay right here , Miss Alice I'm not even going to sit down . 
I know how it upsets sick folks when people outside the family come in for the first time . 
You don't upset me , Adams said . 
I'll feel a lot better for getting a glimpse of you , Mr. Lamb . 
The visitor's laugh was husky , but hearty and re assuring , like his voice in speaking . 
That's the way all my boys blarney me , Miss Alice , he said . 
They think I'll make the work lighter on 'em if they can get me kind of flattered up . 
You just tell your daddy it's no use he doesn't get on MY soft side , pretending he likes to see me even when he's sick . 
Oh , I'm not so sick any more , Adams said . 
I expect to be back in my place ten days from now at the longest . 
Well , now , don't hurry it , Virgil don't hurry it . 
You take your time take your time . 
This brought to Adams's lips a feeble smile not lacking in a kind of vanity , as feeble . 
I suppose you think my department runs itself down there , do you ? His employer's response was another husky laugh . 
Well , well , well ! he cried , and patted Adams's shoulder with a strong pink hand . 
I always suspected he thought a good deal of himself , and now I know he does ! Adams looked troubled . 
Well , I don't like to feel that my salary's going on with me not earning it . 
Listen to him , Miss Alice ! Wouldn't you think , now , he'd let me be the one to worry about that ? Why , on my word . 
if your daddy had his way , I wouldn't be anywhere . 
I don't feel right about it but I'll be back in ten days . 
The old man took his hand in parting . 
All right we'll see , Virgil . 
Of course we do need you , seriously speaking but we don't need you so bad we'll let you come down there before you're fully fit and able . 
He went to the door . 
You hear , Miss Alice ? That's what I wanted to make the old feller understand , and what I want you to kind of enforce on him . 
The old place is there waiting for him , and it'd wait ten years if it took him that long to get good and well . 
And even after that , the husky voice called back from the darkness , as he went to his car , Don't forget , Miss Alice let him take his own time . 
We always want him , but we want him to get good and well first . 
I can't help liking that old man , mama , she said . 
He always sounds so well , so solid and honest and friendly ! I do like him . 
But Mrs. Adams failed in sympathy upon this point . 
He didn't say anything about raising your father's salary , did he ? she asked , dryly . 
No. No. I thought not . 
She would have said more , but Alice , indisposed to listen , began to whistle , ran up the stairs , and went to sit with her father . 
She brought the crocheted scarf and put it about his shoulders again , then took a chair near him . 
I believe seeing Mr. Lamb did do you good . 
I sort of thought it might , and that's why I let him come up . 
You really look a little like your old self again . 
Adams exhaled a breathy Ha ! with the smoke from his pipe as he waved the match to extinguish it . 
That's fine , he said . 
How foolish , papa ! Of COURSE you're not 'a nobody . 
Adams chuckled faintly upon his pipe stem , what vanity he had seeming to be further stimulated by his daughter's applause . 
I guess there aren't a whole lot of people in this town that could claim J. A. showed that much interest in 'em , he said . 
Of course I don't set up to believe it's all because of merit , or anything like that . 
Yes , indeed , it is , papa . 
Yes , sir , Adams said , reflectively . 
Yes , sir , I guess that's so . 
And besides , it all goes to show the kind of a man he is . 
Simon pure , that's what that man is , Alice . 
Simon pure ! There's never been anybody work for him that didn't respect him more than they did any other man in the world , I guess . 
And when you work for him you know he respects you , too . 
Right from the start you get the feeling that J. A. puts absolute confidence in you and that's mighty stimulating it makes you want to show him he hasn't misplaced it . 
The visit of his idolized great man had indeed been good for him , putting new spirit into him and liveliness of the body followed that of the spirit . 
His improvement carried over the night he slept well and awoke late , declaring that he was pretty near a well man and ready for business right now . 
Moreover , having slept again in the afternoon , he dressed and went down to dinner , leaning but lightly on Alice , who conducted him . 
My ! but you and your mother have been at it with your scrubbing and dusting ! he said , as they came through the living room . 
I don't know I ever did see the house so spick and span before ! His glance fell upon a few carnations in a vase , and he chuckled admiringly . 
Why , I declare , Alice ! he exclaimed . 
Oh , so that's it , he said . 
I never would 'a' thought of that , I guess . 
But Walter looked sidelong at his father , and gave forth his sly and knowing laugh . 
Neither would I ! he said . 
Adams lifted his eyebrows jocosely . 
Go on and think it . 
Of course I'll think it , Adams said . 
Certainly the decorations are on account of me coming downstairs . 
Didn't you hear Alice say so ? Sure , I heard her say so . 
Well , then Walter interrupted him with a little music . 
Looking shrewdly at Alice , he sang I was walkin' out on Monday with my sweet thing . 
She's my neat thing , My sweet thing I'll go round on Tuesday night to see her . 
Oh , how we'll spoon Walter ! his mother cried . 
WHERE do you learn such vulgar songs ? However , she seemed not greatly displeased with him , and laughed as she spoke . 
So that's it , Alice ! said Adams . 
Playing the hypocrite with your old man , are you ? It's some new beau , is it ? I only wish it were , she said , calmly . 
No. It's just what I said it's all for you . 
Don't let her con you , Walter advised his father . 
You hang around downstairs a while after dinner and you'll see . 
But the prophecy failed , though Adams went to his own room without waiting to test it . 
Alice stayed in the living room until half past nine , when she went slowly upstairs . 
Her mother , almost tearful , met her at the top , and whispered , You mustn't mind , dearie . 
Mustn't mind what ? Alice asked , and then , as she went on her way , laughed scornfully . 
What utter nonsense ! she said . 
Next day she cut the stems of the rather scant show of carnations and refreshed them with new water . 
Alice gave them a long look , then threw them away and neither Walter nor her father was inspired to any rallying by her plain costume for that evening . 
Mrs. Adams was visibly depressed . 
When Alice finished helping her mother with the dishes , she went outdoors and sat upon the steps of the little front veranda . 
The night , gentle with warm air from the south , surrounded her pleasantly , and the perpetual smoke was thinner . 
Stars were unveiled by the passing of the denser smoke fogs , and to night they could be seen clearly they looked warm and near . 
Other girls sat upon verandas and stoops in Alice's street , cheerful as young fishermen along the banks of a stream . 
Alice could hear them from time to time thin sopranos persistent in laughter that fell dismally upon her ears . 
She had set no lines or nets herself , and what she had of expectations , as Walter called them , were vanished . 
Little affairs , once begun , must be warmed quickly for if they cool they are dead . 
But Alice was not thinking of Arthur Russell . 
When she tossed away the carnations she likewise tossed away her thoughts of that young man . 
She had been like a boy who sees upon the street , some distance before him , a bit of something round and glittering , a possible dime . 
He hopes it is a dime , and , until he comes near enough to make sure , he plays that it is a dime . 
In his mind he has an adventure with it he buys something delightful . 
If he picks it up , discovering only some tin foil which has happened upon a round shape , he feels a sinking . 
A dulness falls upon him . 
Besides , these neighbours were ineligible even for her envy , being of another caste they could never know a dance at the Palmers' , except remotely , through a newspaper . 
Their laughter was for the encouragement of snappy young men of the stores and offices down town , clerks , bookkeepers , what not some of them probably graduates of Frincke's Business College . 
So a traveller , still roaming the world afar , sometimes broods without apparent reason upon his family burial lot I wonder if I shall end there . 
She had given Russell up and he came . 
What luck for me ! he exclaimed . 
To find you alone ! Alice gave him her hand for an instant , not otherwise moving . 
I'm glad it happened so , she said . 
At least , I think so to night . 
Thanks ! Is that practice for other nights somewhere else ? No , he laughed . 
The practicing all led up to this . 
Did I come too soon ? No , she replied , gravely . 
Just in time ! I'm glad to be so accurate I've spent two evenings wanting to come , Miss Adams , instead of doing what I was doing . 
What was that ? Dinners . 
Your fellow citizens are immensely hospitable to a newcomer . 
Oh , no , Alice said . 
We don't do it for everybody . 
Didn't you find yourself charmed ? One was a men's dinner , he explained . 
Mr. Palmer seemed to think I ought to be shown to the principal business men . 
What was the other dinner ? My cousin Mildred gave it . 
Oh , DID she ! Alice said , sharply , but she recovered herself in the same instant , and laughed . 
She wanted to show you to the principal business women , I suppose . 
At all events , I shouldn't give myself out to be so much feted by your 'fellow citizens , after all , seeing these were both done by my relatives , the Palmers . 
However , there are others to follow , I'm afraid . 
I was wondering I hoped maybe you'd be coming to some of them . 
Aren't you ? I rather doubt it , Alice said , slowly . 
Mildred's dance was almost the only evening I've gone out since my father's illness began . 
He seemed better that day so I went . 
He was better the other day when he wanted those cigars . 
He's very much up and down . 
I'd almost forgotten that Mildred is your cousin . 
Not a very near one , he explained . 
Mr. Palmer's father was my great uncle . 
Still , of course you are related . 
Alice said placidly , It's quite an advantage . 
No , she said , in the same placid tone . 
I don't see She laughed . 
We can't prove she showed any trickiness in having you for a cousin . 
Whatever else she might plan to do with you , she didn't plan that . 
So the rest of us must just bear it ! The 'rest of you ! he laughed . 
It's going to mean a great deal of suffering ! Alice resumed her placid tone . 
You're staying at the Palmers' , aren't you ? No , not now . 
I'm going to live here I'm permanent . 
Didn't I tell you ? I think I'd heard somewhere that you were , she said . 
Do you think you'll like living here ? How can one tell ? If I were in your place I think I should be able to tell , Mr. Russell . 
How ? Why , good gracious ! she cried . 
I suppose most of the men of my age in the country have been going through the same experience the War left us with a considerable restlessness of spirit . 
It's quite a shake up trying to settle down again . 
You were in France , then ? Oh , yes but I didn't get up to the front much only two or three times , and then just for a day or so . 
I was in the transportation service . 
You were an officer , of course . 
They let me play I was a major . 
I guessed a major , she said . 
You'd always be pretty grand , of course . 
Well , you see , he informed her , as it happened , we had at least several other majors in our army . 
Why would I always be something 'pretty grand ? You're related to the Palmers . 
Don't you notice they always affect the pretty grand ? Then you think I'm only one of their affectations , I take it . 
Yes , you seem to be the most successful one they've got ! Alice said , lightly . 
You certainly do belong to them . 
And she laughed as if at something hidden from him . 
Don't you ? But you've just excused me for that , he protested . 
You said nobody could be blamed for my being their third cousin . 
What a contradictory girl you are ! Alice shook her head . 
Let's keep away from the kind of girl I am . 
That's just what I came here to talk about . 
She shook her head again . 
Let's keep first to the kind of man you are . 
I'm glad you were in the War . 
Why ? Oh , I don't know . 
She was quiet a moment , for she was thinking that here she spoke the truth his service put about him a little glamour that helped to please her with him . 
She had been pleased with him during their walk pleased with him on his own account and now that pleasure was growing keener . 
All at once it seemed to her that the night air was sweeter to breathe , as if a distant fragrance of new blossoms had been blown to her . 
She smiled back to him , and said , Well , what kind of man are you ? I don't know I've often wondered , he replied . 
What kind of girl are you ? Don't you remember ? I told you the other day . 
I'm just me ! But who is that ? You forget everything said Alice . 
You told me what kind of a girl I am . 
You seemed to think you'd taken quite a fancy to me from the very first . 
So I did , he agreed , heartily . 
But how quickly you forgot it ! Oh , no . 
I only want YOU to say what kind of a girl you are . 
Then DON'T ask her , Alice said , quickly . 
Why ? Because she's such a perfect creature and I'm such an imperfect one . 
Perfect creatures have the most perfect way of ruining the imperfect ones . 
But then they wouldn't be perfect . 
Not if they Oh , yes , they remain perfectly perfect , she assured him . 
That's because they never go into details . 
They're not so vulgar as to come right out and TELL that you've been in jail for stealing chickens . 
They just look absent minded and say in a low voice , 'Oh , very but I scarcely think you'd like her particularly' and then begin to talk of something else right away . 
Yes , he said , somewhat ruefully . 
That does sound like Mildred . 
You certainly do seem to know her ! Do you know everybody as well as that ? Not myself , Alice said . 
I don't know myself at all . 
I got to wondering about that about who I was the other day after you walked home with me . 
I was wondering what I wanted to make you think of me , in case I should ever happen to see you again . 
This audacity appeared to take his breath . 
By George ! he cried . 
You mustn't be astonished , she said . 
Tell me Is it a good policy for me to follow with you ? she asked , and he found the mockery in her voice delightful . 
In Alice's hands , so dexterous in this work , her statuesque friend was becoming as ridiculous as a fine figure of wax left to the mercies of a satirist . 
And in the second place , she's not meant to be funny it isn't right to laugh at really splendid people who take themselves seriously . 
In the third place , you won't come again if I do . 
Don't be sure of that , Russell said , whatever you do . 
'Whatever I do ? she echoed . 
That sounds as if you thought I COULD be terrific ! Be careful there's one thing I could do that would keep you away . 
What's that ? I could tell you not to come , she said . 
I wonder if I ought to . 
Why do you wonder if you 'ought to ? Don't you guess ? No. Then let's both be mysteries to each other , she suggested . 
I mystify you because I wonder , and you mystify me because you don't guess why I wonder . 
We'll let it go at that , shall we ? Very well so long as it's certain that you DON'T tell me not to come again . 
I'll not tell you that yet , she said . 
In fact She paused , reflecting , with her head to one side . 
In fact , I won't tell you not to come , probably , until I see that's what you want me to tell you . 
I'll let you out easily and I'll be sure to see it . 
Even before you do , perhaps . 
That arrangement suits me , Russell returned , and his voice held no trace of jocularity he had become serious . 
Of course I'm in earnest , she said . 
Wouldn't you let me have Thursdays out ? No , no , he protested . 
Will you let me come pretty often ? Lean toward me a little , Alice said . 
I want you to understand . 
By George ! he said . 
What a girl you are ! Why ? Well , for the first reason , because you have such gaieties as that one . 
I should think your father would actually like being ill , just to be in the house with you all the time . 
You mean by that , Alice inquired , I keep my family cheerful with my amusing little ways ? Yes . 
Don't you ? There were only boys in your family , weren't there , Mr. Russell ? I was an only child , unfortunately . 
I see you hadn't any sisters . 
For a moment he puzzled over her meaning , then saw it , and was more delighted with her than ever . 
I can answer a question of yours , now , that I couldn't a while ago . 
Yes , I know , she returned , quietly . 
But how could you know ? It's the question I asked you about whether you were going to like living here , she said . 
You're about to tell me that now you know you WILL like it . 
More telepathy ! he exclaimed . 
Yes , that was it , precisely . 
I suppose the same thing's been said to you so many times that you No , it hasn't , Alice said , a little confused for the moment . 
I meant She paused , then asked in a gentle voice , Would you really like to know ? Yes . 
Well , then , I was only afraid you didn't mean it . 
See here , he said . 
I told you it was being pretty difficult for me to settle down to things again . 
Well , it's more difficult than you know , but I think I can pull through in fair spirits if I can see a girl like you 'pretty often . 
All right , she said , in a business like tone . 
I've told you that you can if you want to . 
I do want to , he assured her . 
I do , indeed ! How often is 'pretty often , Mr. Russell ? Would you walk with me sometimes ? To morrow ? Sometimes . 
That's splendid ! he said . 
You'll walk with me day after to morrow , and the night after that I'll see you at Miss Lamb's dance , won't I ? But this fell rather chillingly upon Alice . 
Miss Lamb's dance ? Which Miss Lamb ? she asked . 
I don't know it's the one that's just coming out of mourning . 
Is her dance so soon ? I'd forgotten . 
You'll be there , won't you ? he asked . 
Alice did not respond at once , and he urged her again Please do promise you'll be there . 
No , I can't promise anything , she said , slowly . 
You see , for one thing , papa might not be well enough . 
But if he is ? said Russell . 
Good gracious ! What's the matter ? Don't you think your relatives Aren't you expected to go with Mildred and Mrs. Palmer ? Not necessarily . 
It doesn't matter what I might be expected to do , he said . 
Will you go with me ? I No I couldn't . 
Why not ? I can't . 
But why ? Papa's not really any better , Alice said , huskily . 
I'm too worried about him to go to a dance . 
Her voice sounded emotional , genuinely enough there was something almost like a sob in it . 
Let's talk of other things , please . 
He acquiesced gently but Mrs. Adams , who had been listening to the conversation at the open window , just overhead , did not hear him . 
She had correctly interpreted the sob in Alice's voice , and , trembling with sudden anger , she rose from her knees , and went fiercely to her husband's room . 
CHAPTER XIII He had not undressed , and he sat beside the table , smoking his pipe and reading his newspaper . 
Adams lowered his newspaper to his knee and peered over his spectacles at her . 
She had remained by the door , standing , and the great greenish shadow of the small lamp shade upon his table revealed her but dubiously . 
Isn't everything all right ? he asked . 
What's the matter ? Don't worry I'm going to tell you , she said , her grimness not relaxed . 
There's matter enough , Virgil Adams . 
Matter enough to make me sick of being alive ! With that , the markings on his brows began to emerge again in all their sharpness the old pattern reappeared . 
Oh , my , my ! he lamented . 
I thought maybe we were all going to settle down to a little peace for a while . 
What's it about now ? It's about Alice . 
Did you think it was about ME or anything for MYSELF ? Like some ready old machine , always in order , his irritability responded immediately and automatically to her emotion . 
How in thunder could I think what it's about , or who it's for ? SAY it , and get it over ! Oh , I'll 'say' it , she promised , ominously . 
You know well enough what old man , Virgil Adams ! That old man who was here the other night . 
Mr. Lamb ? Yes 'Mister Lamb ! She mocked his voice . 
What other old man would I be likely to mean except J. A. Lamb ? What's he been doing now ? her husband inquired , satirically . 
Where'd you get something new against him since the last time you Just this ! she cried . 
The other night when that man was here , if I'd known how he was going to make my child suffer , I'd never have let him set his foot in my house . 
Adams leaned back in his chair as though her absurdity had eased his mind . 
Oh , I see , he said . 
You've just gone plain crazy . 
That's the only explanation of such talk , and it suits the case . 
Hasn't that man made us all suffer every day of our lives ? she demanded . 
I won't hear any more such stuff ! Lifting his paper , Adams affected to read . 
You'd better listen to me , she admonished him . 
You might be sorry you didn't , in case he ever tried to set foot in my house again ! I might tell him to his face what I think of him . 
At this , Adams slapped the newspaper down upon his knee . 
Oh , the devil ! What's it matter what you think of him ? It had better matter to you ! she cried . 
That snippy little Henrietta Lamb has always snubbed Alice every time she's ever had the chance . 
What for ? Adams asked , incredulously . 
Why should she or anybody else pick on Alice ? 'Why ? 'What for ? his wife repeated with a greater vehemence . 
Do YOU ask me such a thing as that ? Do you really want to know ? Yes I'd want to know I would if I believed it . 
Then I'll tell you , she said in a cold fury . 
It's on account of you , Virgil , and nothing else in the world . 
Oh , yes ! These girls don't like ME , so they pick on Alice . 
Quit your palavering and evading , she said . 
A crowd of girls like that , when they get a pretty girl like Alice among them , they act just like wild beasts . 
They'll tear her to pieces , or else they'll chase her and run her out , because they know if she had half a chance she'd outshine 'em . 
They can't do that to a girl like Mildred Palmer because she's got money and family to back her . 
Now you listen to me , Virgil Adams the way the world is now , money IS family . 
Alice would have just as much 'family' as any of 'em every single bit if you hadn't fallen behind in the race . 
How did I Yes , you did ! she cried . 
Twenty five years ago when we were starting and this town was smaller , you and I could have gone with any of 'em if we'd tried hard enough . 
They went up the ladder , and you you're still a clerk down at that old hole ! You leave that out , please , he said . 
I thought you were going to tell me something Henrietta Lamb had done to our Alice . 
You BET I'm going to tell you , she assured him , vehemently . 
But first I'm telling WHY she does it . 
It's because you've never given Alice any backing nor any background , and they all know they can do anything they like to her with perfect impunity . 
Look here ! You remember how practically all the nicest boys in this town used to come here a few years ago . 
Why , they were all crazy over her and the girls HAD to be nice to her then . 
It isn't the child's fault she couldn't hold 'em , is it ? Poor thing , SHE tried hard enough ! I suppose you'd say it was her fault , though . 
Then whose fault is it ? Oh , mine , mine , he said , wearily . 
I drove the young men away , of course . 
You might as well have driven 'em , Virgil . 
It amounts to just the same thing . 
How does it ? Because as they got older a good many of 'em began to think more about money that's one thing . 
Money's at the bottom of it all , for that matter . 
Some of these girls nowadays spend more than your whole salary on their clothes . 
And what jewellery has she got ? A plated watch and two or three little pins and rings of the kind people's maids wouldn't wear now . 
Oh , my , my ! he muttered . 
OH , my , my ! Yes , I should think you WOULD say 'Oh , my , my ! she took him up , loudly . 
That doesn't help things much ! If you ever wanted to DO anything about it , the poor child might see some gleam of hope in her life . 
You don't CARE for her , that's the trouble you don't care a single thing about her . 
I don't ? No you don't . 
Why , even with your miserable little salary you could have given her more than you have . 
You Look here , now , he interrupted , angrily . 
Haven't we got to have SOMETHING to fall back on ? Yes , we have ! she cried . 
We ought to have something to go on with right now , too , when we need it . 
Adams had gone back to his rubbing of his knees . 
Oh , my , my ! he said . 
WHAT thing ? She told him . 
Your dear , grand , old Mister Lamb's Henrietta has sent out invitations for a large party a LARGE one . 
Everybody that is anybody in this town is asked , you can be sure . 
Well , Alice can't accept . 
She can't go with him , though she'd give anything in the world to do it . 
Do you understand ? The reason she can't is because Henrietta Lamb hasn't invited her . 
I HOPE you understand ! Oh , my , my ! he said . 
OH , my , my ! That's your sweet old employer , his wife cried , tauntingly . 
I don't want to hear any more of that ! You can't hold him responsible for everything his grandchildren do , I guess ! He probably doesn't know a thing about it . 
You don't suppose he's troubling HIS head over But she burst out at him passionately . 
What's my heart got to do with it ? Nothing ! You haven't got one or you'd give her what she needed . 
Now , tell me , he said , slowly . 
Just what ARE you asking ? You know ! she sobbed . 
Hell , hell , hell ! he said . 
I've got to go through THAT again ! Yes , you have ! she sobbed . 
Yes that's what you been after all the time I was getting well . 
Yes , I have , and I'll keep on till I die ! A fine wife for a man , he said . 
His wife had repetitions of her own , and she kept at them in a voice that rose to a higher and higher pitch , like the sound of an old well pump . 
Till I die ! Till I die ! Till I DIE ! She ended in a scream and Alice , coming up the stairs , thanked heaven that Russell had gone . 
She ran to her father's door and went in . 
Adams looked at her , and gesticulated shakily at the convulsive figure on the floor . 
Can you get her out of here ? Alice helped Mrs. Adams to her feet and the stricken woman threw her arms passionately about her daughter . 
Get her out ! Adams said , harshly then cried , Wait ! Alice , moving toward the door , halted , and looked at him blankly , over her mother's shoulder . 
What is it , papa ? He stretched out his arm and pointed at her . 
She says she says you have a mean life , Alice . 
Mrs. Adams turned in her daughter's arms . 
Do you hear her lie ? Couldn't you be as brave as she is , Virgil ? Are you lying , Alice ? he asked . 
Do you have a mean time ? No , papa . 
Look at me ! he said . 
Things like this dance now is that so hard to bear ? Alice tried to say , No , papa , again , but she couldn't . 
Suddenly and in spite of herself she began to cry . 
Do you hear her ? his wife sobbed . 
Now do you He waved at them fiercely . 
Get out of here ! he said . 
Both of you ! Get out of here ! As they went , he dropped in his chair and bent far forward , so that his haggard face was concealed from them . 
To Arthur Russell this was a day like a gay companion who pleased him well but the gay companion at his side pleased him even better . 
She looked her prettiest , chattered her wittiest , smiled her wistfulest , and delighted him with all together . 
You look so happy it's easy to see your father's taken a good turn , he told her . 
Yes he has this afternoon , at least , she said . 
I might have other reasons for looking cheerful , though . 
For instance ? Exactly ! she said , giving him a sweet look just enough mocked by her laughter . 
For instance ! Well , go on , he begged . 
Isn't it expected ? she asked . 
Of you , you mean ? No , she returned . 
to choose as he would how much or how little she meant . 
Happily , these obliging moments extended themselves to cover all the time he spent with her . 
About that dance at Miss Lamb's since your father's so much better She flushed a little . 
Now , now ! she chided him . 
We agreed not to say any more about that . 
Yes , but since he IS better Alice shook her head . 
He won't be better to morrow . 
He always has a bad day after a good one especially after such a good one as this is . 
What a pother ! she cried . 
Oh , yes ! she jeered . 
It's the simple truth , he insisted . 
I don't care a great deal about dances these days and if you aren't going to be there You could stay away , she suggested . 
You wouldn't ! Unfortunately , I can't . 
I'm afraid I'm supposed to be the excuse . 
I suppose just on account of my being a cousin of Mildred's and of Of course ! You'll have a beautiful time , too . 
It hasn't anything to do with you at all , she said . 
Of course I'd like to go with you and to dance with you though you don't seem to realize that you wouldn't be permitted much time with me . 
Oh , yes , I Never mind ! she laughed . 
But even if papa should be better to morrow , I doubt if I'd go . 
In fact , I know I wouldn't . 
There's another reason besides papa . 
The truth is , I don't get on with Henrietta Lamb . 
As a matter of fact , I dislike her , and of course that means she dislikes me . 
I should never think of asking her to anything I gave , and I really wonder she asks me to things SHE gives . 
It wouldn't be very nice for me to go to her house , Alice went on , when I wouldn't want her in mine . 
Henrietta's father died just , eleven months and twenty seven days before your cousin's dance , but she couldn't stick out those few last days and make it a year she was there . 
I want to be unfair about just this , she said , letting a troubled laughter tremble through her appealing voice as she spoke . 
Imagine any one speaking unkindly of you not praising you ! Who HAS praised me to you ? she asked , quickly . 
You don't understand this town yet . 
You'll be surprised when you do we're different . 
I'd know they weren't true . 
Even if you did know that , they'd make a difference , she said . 
What a man thinks about a girl , for instance . 
Do you want to have what you think about me spoiled , Mr. Russell ? Oh , but that's already far beyond reach , he said , lightly . 
But it can't be ! she protested . 
Why not ? Because it never can be . 
Men don't change their minds about one another often they make it quite an event when they do , and talk about it as if something important had happened . 
But a girl only has to go down town with a shoe string unfastened , and every man who sees her will change his mind about her . 
Don't you know that's true ? Not of myself , I think . 
Is that what they do say ? he asked . 
Just about ! Whatever they hope will get results . 
She shook her head wisely . 
Oh , yes we do that here ! But I don't mind loose shoe strings , he said . 
They'll find out what you do mind . 
But suppose , he said , looking at her whimsically suppose I wouldn't mind anything so long as it's yours ? She courtesied . 
Oh , pretty enough ! But a girl who's talked about has a weakness that's often a fatal one . 
What is it ? It's this when she's talked about she isn't THERE . 
That's how they kill her . 
I'm afraid I don't follow you . 
But that isn't the way it happens they'll get at you when I'm nowhere around and can't remind you of the sort of girl I really am . 
But you don't do that , he complained . 
You don't remind me you don't even tell me the sort of girl you really are ! I'd like to know . 
Let's be serious then , she said , and looked serious enough herself . 
Would you honestly like to know ? Yes . 
Well , then , you must be careful . 
'Careful ? The word amused him . 
I mean careful not to get me mixed up , she said . 
Careful not to mix up the girl you might hear somebody talking about with the me I honestly try to make you see . 
And if you care at all about about knowing a girl who'd like someone to know her Just 'someone ? That's disappointing . 
Well you , she said . 
Somebody might begin to praise me to you , too so it's dangerous to ask you to change the subject if I ever happen to be mentioned . 
But after all She paused . 
'After all' isn't the end of a thought , is it ? Sometimes it is of a girl's thought I suppose men are neater about their thoughts , and always finish 'em . 
It isn't the end of the thought I had then , though . 
What is the end of it ? She looked at him impulsively . 
Oh , it's foolish , she said , and she laughed as laughs one who proposes something probably impossible . 
I don't know it might be done , she returned , hopefully . 
Especially in a town of this size it's grown so it's quite a huge place these days . 
People can keep themselves to themselves in a big place better , you know . 
For instance , nobody knows that you and I are taking a walk together today . 
How absurd , when here we are on exhibition ! No we aren't . 
We aren't ? Not a bit of it ! she laughed . 
But we're not on exhibition now . 
You see ? she said . 
I've been leading you without your knowing it . 
Of course that's because you're new to the town , and you give yourself up to the guidance of an old citizen . 
I'm not so sure , Miss Adams . 
It might mean that I don't care where I follow so long as I follow you . 
Very well , she said . 
I'd like you to keep on following me at least long enough for me to show you that there's something nicer ahead of us than this dingy street . 
Is that figurative ? he asked . 
Might be ! she returned , gaily . 
There's a pretty little park at the end , but it's very proletarian , and nobody you and I know will be more likely to see us there than on this street . 
What an imagination you have ! he exclaimed . 
You turn our proper little walk into a Parisian adventure . 
She looked at him in what seemed to be a momentary grave puzzlement . 
Perhaps you feel that a Parisian adventure mightn't please your your relatives ? Why , no , he returned . 
You seem to think of them oftener than I do . 
This appeared to amuse Alice , or at least to please her , for she laughed . 
Then I can afford to quit thinking of them , I suppose . 
It's only that I used to be quite a friend of Mildred's but there ! we needn't to go into that . 
I've never been a friend of Henrietta Lamb's , though , and I almost wish she weren't taking such pains to be a friend of yours . 
Oh , but she's not . 
It's all on account of On Mildred's account , Alice finished this for him , coolly . 
It's on account of the two families , he was at pains to explain , a little awkwardly . 
It's because I'm a relative of the Palmers , and the Palmers and the Lambs seem to be old family friends . 
Something the Adamses certainly are not , Alice said . 
Not with either of 'em particularly not with the Lambs ! And here , scarce aware of what impelled her , she returned to her former elaborations and colourings . 
You see , the differences between Henrietta and me aren't entirely personal I couldn't go to her house even if I liked her . 
The Lambs and Adamses don't get on with each other , and we've just about come to the breaking point as it happens . 
I hope it's nothing to bother you . 
Why ? A lot of things bother me . 
I'm sorry they do , he said , and seemed simply to mean it . 
That's nice of you , Mr. Russell . 
The break between the Adamses and the Lambs is a pretty bothersome thing . 
It's been coming on a long time . 
I hate it all so ! she added . 
I suppose most quarrels between families are on account of business , she said . 
That's why they're so sordid . 
Certainly the Lambs seem a sordid lot to me , though of course I'm biased . 
And with that she began to sketch a history of the commercial antagonism that had risen between the Adamses and the Lambs . 
The sketching was spontaneous and dramatic . 
Mathematics had no part in it nor was there accurate definition of Mr. Adams's relation to the institution of Lamb and Company . 
The point was clouded , in fact though that might easily be set down to the general haziness of young ladies confronted with the mysteries of trade or commerce . 
The Lambs were going to be enraged when they learned what was afoot . 
Such was the impression , a little misted , wrought by Alice's quick narrative . 
But there was dolorous fact behind it Adams had succumbed . 
His wife , grave and nervous , rather than triumphant , in success , had told their daughter that the great J. A. would be furious and possibly vindictive . 
Adams was afraid of him , she said . 
But what for , mama ? Alice asked , since this seemed a turn of affairs out of reason . 
You were supposed to die in the service , she said bitterly , and her daughter , a little mystified , accepted this explanation . 
Adams had not spoken to her of his surrender he seemed not inclined to speak to her at all , or to any one . 
Alice was not serious too long , and she began to laugh as she came to the end of her decorative sketch . 
After all , the whole thing is perfectly ridiculous , she said . 
It takes all the romance out of ME , she laughed . 
You'll never go for a Parisian walk with me again , after I tell you what I'll be heiress to . 
They had come to the entrance of the little park and , as Alice had said , it was a pretty place , especially on a day so radiant . 
I think I'll postpone telling you about it till we get nearly home again , Alice said , as they began to saunter down one of the gravelled paths . 
There's a bench beside a spring farther on we can sit there and talk about a lot of things things not so sticky as my dowry's going to be . 
What in the world She laughed despairingly . 
Everything she said seemed to be necessary to support something else she had said . 
Discretion caught her in time and something else , in company with discretion , caught her , for she stopped short in her talk and blushed . 
After her abrupt pause , she sighed , then looked at him with her eyebrows lifted in a comedy appeal . 
You haven't said you wouldn't give Henrietta the chance , she said , in the softest voice that can still have a little laugh running in it . 
Also , with some surprise on the part of Russell , and something more poignant than surprise for Alice , they saw this person . 
All of the dingy street was ugly , but the greater part of it appeared to be honest . 
Thus the public eye , small of pupil in the light of the open street , was intentionally not invited to the dusky interiors . 
Beyond was a series of soot harried frame two story houses , once part of a cheerful neighbourhood when the town was middle aged and settled , and not old and growing . 
These houses , all carrying the label . 
The four or five young men who lounged there this afternoon were of a type known to shady pool parlours . 
Another thing common to the group was the expression of eye and mouth and Alice , in the midst of her other thoughts , had a distasteful thought about this . 
His mood was lively he twirled the stick through his fingers like a drum major's baton , and whistled loudly . 
Moreover , he was indeed accompanied . 
OH , you bashful vamp ! The girl laughed airily . 
God , but you guys are wise ! she said . 
Walter stared at his sister then grinned faintly , and nodded at Russell as the latter lifted his hat in salutation . 
Your brother certainly seems to have found the place for 'colour' today , he said . 
That girl's talk must be full of it . 
But Alice had forgotten the colour she herself had used in accounting for Walter's peculiarities , and she did not understand . 
What ? she said , huskily . 
He didn't look at all disconcerted . 
He didn't seem to mind your seeing him . 
That's all the worse , isn't it ? Why , no , her friend said , genially . 
It means he didn't consider that he was engaged in anything out of the way . 
You can't expect to understand everything boys do at his age they do all sorts of queer things , and outgrow them . 
Your brother evidently has a taste for queer people , and very likely he's been at least half sincere when he's made you believe he had a literary motive behind it . 
We all go through Thanks , Mr. Russell , she interrupted . 
Let's don't say any more . 
He ventured only a word more . 
Try not to mind it so much it really doesn't amount to anything . 
She shook her head , and they went on in silence she did not look at him again until they stopped before her own house . 
Then she gave him only one glimpse of her eyes before she looked down . 
It's spoiled , isn't it ? she said , in a low voice . 
What's 'spoiled ? Our walk well , everything . 
'Always is' what ? he asked . 
She was gone before he could speak to her again . 
Sheer grief had followed her anger grief for the calamitous end of her bright afternoon , grief for the end of everything , as she thought then . 
Nevertheless , she gradually grew more composed , and , when her mother tapped on the door presently , let her in . 
Mrs. Adams looked at her with quick apprehension . 
Oh , poor child ! Wasn't he Alice told her . 
You see how it how it made me look , mama , she quavered , having concluded her narrative . 
That's all HE'D think don't you see ? Alice's wet eyes began to show a little hopefulness . 
You honestly think it might be that way , mama ? Why , from what you've told me he said , I KNOW it's that way . 
Didn't he say he wanted to come again ? N no , Alice said , uncertainly . 
But I think he will . 
At least I begin to think so now . 
From all you tell me , he seems to be a very desirable young man , Mrs. Adams said , primly . 
Her daughter was silent for several moments then new tears gathered upon her downcast lashes . 
He's just dear ! she faltered . 
He's told you he isn't engaged , hasn't he ? No. But I know he isn't . 
Maybe when he first came here he was near it , but I know he's not . 
The words were all but inaudible . 
Don't you worry , her mother said , and patted her on the shoulder . 
Everything will come out all right don't you fear , Alice . 
I wonder he looks at me at all . 
And if he does again , after seeing my brother with those horrible people Now , now ! Mrs. Adams interrupted , expostulating mournfully . 
I'm sure Walter's a GOOD boy You are ? Alice cried , with a sudden vigour . 
You ARE ? I'm sure he's GOOD , yes and if he isn't , it's not his fault . 
What nonsense ! No , it's true , Mrs. Adams lamented . 
I tried to bring him up to be good , God knows and when he was little he was the best boy I ever saw . 
Most boys won't do that with their mothers not nearly that long . 
I tried so hard to bring him up right but if anything's gone wrong it's my fault . 
How could it be ? You've just said It's because I didn't make your father this this new step earlier . 
Then Walter might have had all the advantages that other Oh , mama , PLEASE ! Alice begged her . 
Let's don't go over all that again . 
Isn't it more important to think what's to be done about him ? Is he going to be allowed to go on disgracing us as he does ? Mrs. Adams sighed profoundly . 
I don't know what to do , she confessed , unhappily . 
Your father's so upset about about this new step he's taking I don't feel as if we ought to No , no ! Alice cried . 
Papa mustn't be distressed with this , on top of everything else . 
But SOMETHING'S got to be done about Walter . 
What can be ? her mother asked , helplessly . 
What can be ? Alice admitted that she didn't know . 
But she said nothing , while his father and mother were as silent as she . 
Walter , he said , when you've finished I wish you'd come up to my room . 
I got something I want to say to you . 
Walter shot a hard look at his apathetic sister , then turned to his father . 
Make it to morrow , he said . 
This is Satad'y night and I got a date . 
No , Adams said , frowning . 
You come up before you go out . 
All right I've had all I want to eat , Walter returned . 
I got a few minutes . 
He followed his father upstairs , and when they were in the room together Adams shut the door , sat down , and began to rub his knees . 
Rheumatism ? the boy inquired , slyly . 
That what you want to talk to me about ? No. But Adams did not go on he seemed to be in difficulties for words , and Walter decided to help him . 
Hop ahead and spring it , he said . 
Didn't she tell you I haven't talked with her all day . 
Oh , I see , Walter said . 
She told mother and mother told you . 
No , neither of 'em have told me anything . 
What was there to tell ? Walter laughed . 
Oh , it's nothin' , he said . 
She expects me to like the kind she likes , and I don't like 'em . 
I thought she'd prob'ly got you all stirred up about it . 
No , no , his father said , peevishly . 
I don't know anything about it , and I don't care to know anything about it . 
I want to talk to you about something important . 
Then , as he was again silent , Walter said , Well , TALK about it I'm listening . 
It's this , Adams began , heavily . 
It's about me going into this glue business . 
Your mother's told you , hasn't she ? She said you were goin' to leave the old place down town and start a glue factory . 
That's all I know about it I got my own affairs to 'tend to . 
Well , this is your affair , his father said , frowning . 
You can't stay with Lamb and Company . 
Walter looked a little startled . 
It's going to be a big pull to get this business on its feet . 
Yes ! Walter exclaimed with a sharp skepticism . 
I should say it was ! He stared at his father incredulously . 
About this business , I do . 
How do you ? Because I made a long study of it . 
I'm not afraid of going about it the wrong way but it's a hard job and you'll have to put in all whatever sense and strength you've got . 
Walter began to breathe quickly , and his lips were agitated then he set them obstinately . 
Oh I will , he said . 
Yes , you will , Adams returned , not noticing that his son's inflection was satiric . 
I'm going right at it , now I've got to and you'll have to quit Lamb's by the end of next week . 
Oh , I will ? Walter's voice grew louder , and there was a shrillness in it . 
I got to quit Lamb's the end of next week , have I ? He stepped forward , angrily . 
I'm not walkin' out o' Lamb's , see ? I'm not quittin' down there I stay with 'em , see ? Adams looked up at him , astonished . 
You'll leave there next Saturday , he said . 
I've got to have you . 
You don't anything o' the kind , Walter told him , sharply . 
Do you expect to pay me anything ? I'd pay you about what you been getting down there . 
Then pay somebody else I don't know anything about glue . 
No. You've got to Walter cut him off with the utmost vehemence . 
Don't tell me what I got to do ! I know what I got to do better'n you , I guess ! I stay at Lamb's , see ? Adams rose angrily . 
You'll do what I tell you . 
You can't stay down there . 
Why can't I ? Because I won't let you . 
Listen ! Keep on not lettin' me I'll be there just the same . 
At that his father broke into a sour laughter . 
THEY won't let you , Walter ! They won't have you down there after they find out I'm going . 
Why , what do they care whether you go or not ? They'll care enough to fire YOU , my boy ! Look here , then show me why . 
Look here , he said . 
When you say Lamb's is likely to fire me because you're goin' to quit , you talk like the people that have to be locked up . 
I don't know where you get such things in your head Lamb and Company won't know you're gone . 
Listen I can stay there long as I want to . 
But I'll tell you what I'll do make it worth my while and I'll hook up with your old glue factory , after all . 
Adams stopped his pacing abruptly , and stared at him . 
'Make it worth your while ? What you mean ? I got a good use for three hundred dollars right now , Walter said . 
Let me have it and I'll quit Lamb's to work for you . 
Don't let me have it and I SWEAR I won't ! Are you crazy ? Is everybody crazy that needs three hundred dollars ? Yes , Adams said . 
Either you do what I want , or I won't do what you want . 
Don't ask me again after this , because Adams interrupted him fiercely . 
'Ask you again ! Don't worry about that , my boy ! All I ask you is to get out o' my room . 
Look here , Walter said , quietly and his lopsided smile distorted his livid cheek . 
Look here I expect YOU wouldn't give me three hundred dollars to save my life , would you ? You make me sick , Adams said , in his bitterness . 
Walter went out , whistling and Adams drooped into his old chair again as the door closed . 
OH , my , my ! he groaned . 
Of all his regrets the greatest was that in a moment of vanity and tenderness , twenty five years ago , he had told his young wife a business secret . 
He had wanted to show how important her husband was becoming , and how much the head of the universe , J. A. Lamb , trusted to his integrity and ability . 
The great man had an idea he thought of branching out a little , he told Adams confidentially , and there were possibilities of profit in glue . 
What he wanted was a liquid glue to be put into little bottles and sold cheaply . 
Everybody has to use glue , and if I make mine convenient and cheap , everybody'll buy mine . 
We've got to find a better glue than that , anyhow . 
I'm going to set you and Campbell at it . 
You're a practical , wide awake young feller , and Campbell's a mighty good chemist I guess you two boys ought to make something happen . 
His guess was shrewd enough . 
But Campbell was thoughtful over the discovery . 
Look here , he said . 
Why ain't this just about yours and mine ? After all , it may be Lamb's money that's paid for the stuff we've used , but it hasn't cost much . 
But he pays US , Adams remonstrated , horrified by his companion's idea . 
He paid us to do it . 
It belongs absolutely to him . 
Oh , I know he THINKS it does , Campbell admitted , plaintively . 
I suppose we've got to let him take it . 
You better ask him the same salary I do , and mine's going to be high . 
But the high salary , thus pleasantly imagined , was never paid . 
Unfortunately , the enterprise remained prospective . 
Its projector had already become inveigled into another side line , as he told Adams . 
Oh , I'll start it up some day , maybe . 
If I don't , I may turn it over to my heirs it's always an asset , worth something or other , of course . 
Lamb apparently forgot all about glue , but Adams discovered that unfortunately there was someone else who remembered it . 
It's really YOURS , she argued , that painful day when for the first time she suggested his using his knowledge for the benefit of himself and his family . 
Mr. Campbell might have had a right to part of it , but he died and didn't leave any kin , so it belongs to you . 
Suppose J. A. Lamb hired me to saw some wood , Adams said . 
Would the sticks belong to me ? He hasn't got any right to take your invention and bury it , she protested . 
Over and over he pressed her with the same illustration , on the point of ownership , though he thought he was varying it . 
Suppose he hired me to build him a house would that be MY house ? He didn't hire you to build him a house . 
But at least the wrangling about it was over they were grave together , almost silent , and an uneasiness prevailed with her as much as with him . 
Well , well , Virgil Adams ! I always thought you had a sporty streak in you . 
Travel in your own hired private automobile nowadays , do you ? Pamperin' yourself because you're still layin' off sick , I expect . 
Oh , I'm well enough again , Charley Lohr , Adams said , as he got out and shook hands . 
Then , telling the driver to wait , he took his friend's arm , walked to the bench with him , and sat down . 
I been practically well for some time , he said . 
I'm fixin' to get into harness again . 
Bein' sick has certainly produced a change of heart in you , his friend laughed . 
What's come over you ? Well , I got to turn over a new leaf , and that's a fact , Adams said . 
What ! What you talkin' about ? No , said Adams . 
I been thinking I might likely kind of branch out on my own account . 
Why , that's the doggonedest thing I ever heard ! he said . 
I already am the oldest inhabitant down there , but if you go , there won't be anybody else of the old generation at all . 
His friend , still ruffling the gray moustache upward , stared at him in frowning perplexity . 
I been sort of milling over the idea of taking up something like that . 
Handlin' it for some firm , you mean ? No. Making it . 
Sort of a glue works likely . 
Let me think , he said . 
Didn't the ole man have some such idea once , himself ? Adams leaned forward , rubbing his knees and he coughed again before he spoke . 
Fact is , he did . 
That is to say , a mighty long while ago he did . 
I remember , said Lohr . 
Didn't the ole man have you and Campbell workin' sort of private on some glue proposition or other ? Yes , he did . 
I found out a good deal about glue then , too . 
Been workin' on it since , I suppose ? Yes . 
Kept it in my mind and studied out new things about it . 
Well , but see here , he said . 
I hope it ain't anything the ole man'll think might infringe on whatever he had you doin' for HIM . 
Yes , at eighty , he would ! Not that I mean I think you might be tryin' to get the better of him , Virg . 
You're a mighty close ole codger , but such a thing ain't in you . 
What I mean I hope there ain't any chance for the ole man to THINK you might be Oh , no , Adams interrupted . 
Well , that's good , said Lohr . 
Of course you know what you're up to you're old enough , God knows ! He laughed ruefully . 
No. No , I haven't . 
I thought well , that's what I wanted to see you about . 
What can I do ? I thought I'd write him a letter and get you to hand it to him for me . 
My soul ! his friend exclaimed . 
Why on earth don't you just go down there and tell him ? Adams became pitiably embarrassed . 
He stammered , coughed , stammered again , wrinkling his face so deeply he seemed about to weep but finally he contrived to utter an apologetic laugh . 
I ought to do that , of course but in some way or other I just don't seem to be able to to manage it . 
Why in the world not ? the mystified Lohr inquired . 
But why in the world don't you just mail it to him ? Well , I'll tell you , Adams returned . 
You know , like that , it'd have to go through a clerk and that secretary of his , and I don't know who all . 
Then there's another thing you see all during while I was sick he had my salary paid to me it amounts to considerable , I was on my back so long . 
If it had to go through a lot of other people , the way it would if I put it in the mail , why , you can't tell . 
All right , Lohr said . 
Certainly if you'd rather do it that way , I'll hand it to him and tell you what he says that is , if he says anything and I hear him . 
Got it written ? No I'll send it around to you last of the week . 
Adams moved toward his taxicab . 
Don't say anything to anybody about it , Charley , especially till after that . 
And , Charley , I'll be mighty obliged to you , Adams said , and came back to shake hands in farewell . 
There's one thing more you might do if you'd ever happen to feel like it . 
He kept his eyes rather vaguely fixed on a point above his friend's head as he spoke , and his voice was not well controlled . 
Ole Virg Adams , he told her . 
He's out again after his long spell of sickness , and the way it looks to me he'd better stayed in bed . 
You mean he still looks too bad to be out ? Oh , I expect he's gettin' his HEALTH back , Lohr said , frowning . 
Then what's the matter with him ? You mean he's lost his mind ? My goodness , but women do jump at conclusions ! he exclaimed . 
Adams devoted the latter part of that evening to the composition of his letter a disquieting task not completed when , at eleven o'clock , he heard his daughter coming up the stairs . 
Then he set down the pen upon a blotter , went to his door , and opened it , looking out at her as she came . 
Well , dearie , you seem to be feeling pretty good , he said . 
What you been doing ? Just sitting out on the front steps , papa . 
All alone , I suppose . 
Oh , he did ? Adams pretended to be surprised . 
What all could you and he find to talk about till this hour o' the night ? She laughed gaily . 
You don't know me , papa ! How's that ? You've never found out that I always do all the talking . 
Didn't you let him get a word in all evening ? Oh , yes every now and then . 
Adams took her hand and petted it . 
Well , what did he say ? Alice gave him a radiant look and kissed him . 
He smiled as he picked up his pen to begin a new draft of the painful letter but presently he looked puzzled . 
After all , she could be happy just as things were , it seemed . 
Then why had he taken what his wife called this new step , which he had so long resisted ? He could only sigh and wonder . 
Life works out pretty peculiarly , he thought for he couldn't go back now , though the reason he couldn't was not clearly apparent . 
He had to go ahead . 
CHAPTER XVII He was out in his taxicab again the next morning , and by noon he had secured what he wanted . 
It was curiously significant that he worked so quickly . 
It remained unattainable , so far as he was concerned but he found other things . 
Not twice a crow's mile from his own house there was a dismal and slummish quarter , a decayed industrial district of earlier days . 
Most of the industries were small some of them died , perishing of bankruptcy or fire and a few had moved , leaving their shells . 
When he passed it , he would look at it with an interest which he supposed detached and idly speculative . 
That'd be just the thing , he thought . 
It would take a lot of money , though a great deal too much for me to expect to handle even if I'd ever dream of doing such a thing . 
Yes , I suppose I COULD swing this , he thought . 
They'd want a lot of money for a lease on that big building over the way but this , why , I should think it'd be practically nothing at all . 
But the long brick shed in the great muddy lot was for sale or to let , or pretty near to be given away , he learned , if anybody would take it . 
He drove in his taxicab to look the place over again , then down town to arrange for a lease and came home to lunch with his wife and daughter . 
Things were moving , he told them . 
He laughed at her grimly . 
Then let me go along with you in the cab , she begged . 
You don't look able to start in so hard , papa , just when you're barely beginning to get your strength back . 
Do let me go with you and see if I can't help or at least take care of you if you should get to feeling badly . 
Then he was off again and the next morning had men at work in his sheds , though the wages he had to pay frightened him . 
Yous capitalusts seem to think a man's got nothin' to do but break his back p'doosin' wealth fer yous to squander , the resigning person loudly complained . 
By the end of the week , Adams felt that he had moved satisfactorily forward in his preparations for the simple equipment he needed but he hated the pause of Sunday . 
He didn't WANT any rest , he told Alice impatiently , when she suggested that the idle day might be good for him . 
Late that afternoon he walked over to the apartment house where old Charley Lohr lived , and gave his friend the letter he wanted the head of Lamb and Company to receive personally . 
I'll take it as a mighty great favour in you to hand it to him personally , Charley , he said , in parting . 
You mean Mr. Adams is ? Mrs. Lohr inquired . 
Who'd you think I meant ? he returned . 
One o' these partridges in the wall paper ? Did he look so badly ? Looked kind of distracted to me , her husband replied . 
These little thin fellers can stand a heap sometimes , though . 
He'll be over here again Monday . 
Did he say he would ? No , said Lohr . 
He'll be over to find out what the big boss says when I give him this letter . 
Expect I'd be kind of anxious , myself , if I was him . 
Oh , nothing , he said . 
Of course any man starting up a new business is bound to be pretty nervous a while . 
He'll be over here to morrow evening , all right you'll see . 
The prediction was fulfilled Adams arrived just after Mrs. Lohr had removed the dinner dishes to her kitchenette but Lohr had little information to give his caller . 
He didn't say a word , Virgil nary a word . 
I took it into his office and handed it to him , and he just sat and read it that's all . 
All I know he just read it . 
Well , but see here , Adams began , nervously . 
Well Well what , Virg ? Well , but what did he say when he DID speak ? He didn't speak . 
Not so long I was in there , anyhow . 
He just sat there and read it . 
Then , when he came to the end , he turned back and started to read it all over again . 
By that time there was three or four other men standin' around in the office waitin' to speak to him , and I had to go . 
Adams sighed , and stared at the floor , irresolute . 
Well , I'll be getting along back home then , I guess , Charley . 
So you're sure you couldn't tell anything what he might have thought about it , then ? Not a thing in the world . 
I've told you all I know , Virg . 
I guess so , I guess so , Adams said , mournfully . 
I feel mighty obliged to you , Charley Lohr mighty obliged . 
And he departed , sighing in perplexity . 
Ah , I wish I knew , he whispered , plaintively . 
I do wish I knew what he thought about it . 
He was roused by a laugh that came lightly from the little veranda near by . 
Papa ! Alice called gaily . 
What are you standing there muttering to yourself about ? Oh , are you there , dearie ? he said , and came up the path . 
A tall figure rose from a chair on the veranda . 
Papa , this is Mr. Russell . 
Nice evening , Adams said further , as their hands parted . 
Nice time o' year it is , but we don't always have as good weather as this that's the trouble of it . 
Well He went to the door . 
Well I bid you good evening , he said , and retired within the house . 
He's the old fashionedest man in town , I suppose and frightfully impressed with you , I could see ! What nonsense ! said Russell . 
Yes we're only the audience . 
Why , we live for you , and we can't live without you . 
I wish you couldn't , said Russell . 
That would be a new experience for both of us , wouldn't it ? It might be a rather bleak one for me , she answered , lightly . 
I'm afraid I'll miss these summer evenings with you when they're over . 
I'll miss them enough , thanks ! Do they have to be over some time ? he asked . 
Oh , everything's over some time , isn't it ? Russell laughed at her . 
Don't let's look so far ahead as that , he said . 
We don't need to be already thinking of the cemetery , do we ? I didn't , she said , shaking her head . 
Our summer evenings will be over before then , Mr. Russell . 
Good heavens ! she said . 
THERE'S laconic eloquence almost a proposal in a single word ! Never mind , I shan't hold you to it . 
But to answer you well , I'm always looking ahead , and somehow I usually see about how things are coming out . 
I suppose most of us do at least it seems as if we did , because we so seldom feel surprised by the way they do come out . 
But maybe that's only because life isn't like a play in a theatre , and most things come about so gradually we get used to them . 
No , I'm sure I can see quite a long way ahead , she insisted , gravely . 
And it doesn't seem to me as if our summer evenings could last very long . 
Something'll interfere somebody will , I mean they'll SAY something What if they do ? She moved her shoulders in a little apprehensive shiver . 
It'll change you , she said . 
I'm just sure something spiteful's going to happen to me . 
You'll feel differently about things . 
Now , isn't that an idea ! he exclaimed . 
It will , she insisted . 
I know something spiteful's going to happen ! You seem possessed by a notion not a bit flattering to me , he remarked . 
I ought to be afraid that somebody may say something about me to you that will make you believe I'm a professional forger . 
No. We both know they won't , she said . 
We both know you're the sort of person everybody in the world says nice things about . 
She lifted her hand to silence him as he laughed at this . 
And if you weren't , I shouldn't hear anything terrible about you . 
I told you I was unpopular I don't see anybody at all any more . 
The only man except you who's been to see me in a month is that fearful little fat Frank Dowling , and I sent word to HIM I wasn't home . 
Nobody'd tell me of your wickedness , you see . 
Then let me break some news to you , Russell said . 
Nobody would tell me of yours , either . 
Nobody's even mentioned you to me . 
She burlesqued a cry of anguish . 
That IS obscurity ! I suppose I'm too apt to forget that they say the population's about half a million nowadays . 
There ARE other people to talk about , you feel , then ? None that I want to , he said . 
But I should think the size of the place might relieve your mind of what seems to insist on burdening it . 
Besides , I'd rather you thought me a better man than you do . 
What kind of a man do I think you are ? The kind affected by what's said about people instead of by what they do themselves . 
Aren't you ? No , I'm not , he said . 
If you want our summer evenings to be over you'll have to drive me away yourself . 
Nobody else could ? No. She was silent , leaning forward , with her elbows on her knees and her clasped hands against her lips . 
Then , not moving , she said softly Well I won't ! She was silent again , and he said nothing , but looked at her , seeming to be content with looking . 
What are you thinking of ? he asked . 
She leaned back in her chair and did not answer at once . 
Then she said I don't know I doubt if I was thinking of anything . 
It seems to me I wasn't . 
I think I was just being sort of sadly happy just then . 
Were you ? Was it 'sadly , too ? Don't you know ? she said . 
It seems to me that only little children can be just happily happy . 
Perhaps it's a kind of useless foreboding I seem to have pretty often . 
It may be that or it may be poor papa . 
You ARE a funny , delightful girl , though ! Russell laughed . 
When your father's so well again that he goes out walking in the evenings ! He does too much walking , Alice said . 
Too much altogether , over at his new plant . 
But there isn't any stopping him . 
She laughed and shook her head . 
When a man gets an ambition to be a multi millionaire his family don't appear to have much weight with him . 
He'll walk all he wants to , in spite of them . 
I suppose so , Russell said , absently then he leaned forward . 
I wish I could understand better why you were 'sadly' happy . 
Meanwhile , as Alice shed what further light she could on this point , the man ambitious to be a multi millionaire was indeed walking too much for his own good . 
I wish I DID know , he thought , over and over . 
I DO wish I knew how he feels about it . 
I guess I'm the biggest dang fool alive , he told his wife as they sat together one evening . 
I got plenty else to bother me , without worrying my head off about what HE thinks . 
I can't help what he thinks it's too late for that . 
So why should I keep pestering myself about it ? It'll wear off , Virgil , Mrs. Adams said , reassuringly . 
She was gentle and sympathetic with him , and for the first time in many years he would come to sit with her and talk , when he had finished his day's work . 
He had told her , evading her eye , Oh , I don't blame you . 
You didn't get after me to do this on your own account you couldn't help it . 
Yes but it don't wear off , he complained . 
Don't you think you're getting kind of morbid over it ? Maybe , maybe , he muttered . 
Why , yes , she said , briskly . 
You don't realize what a little bit of a thing all this is to him . 
It's been a long , long while since the last time you even mentioned glue to him , and he's probably forgotten everything about it . 
You're off your base it isn't like him to forget things , Adams returned , peevishly . 
He may seem to forget 'em , but he don't . 
But he's not thinking about this , or you'd have heard from him before now . 
Her husband shook his head . 
Ah , that's just it ! he said . 
Why HAVEN'T I heard from him ? It's all your morbidness , Virgil . 
I suppose he feels he ought to stick to what he thinks is sure pay . 
As soon as he sees that you're going to succeed with the glue works he'll want to be with you quick enough . 
Well , he better get a little sense in his head , Adams returned , crossly . 
He'll come around later and be glad of the chance . 
He'll have to beg for it then ! I won't ask him again . 
Oh , Walter will come out all right you needn't worry . 
And don't you see that Mr. Lamb's not discharging him means there's no hard feeling against you , Virgil ? I can't make it out at all , he said , frowning . 
Now , now ! she said , trying to comfort him . 
You couldn't do anybody an injury to save your life , and everybody knows it . 
Well , anybody ought to know I wouldn't WANT to do an injury , but this world isn't built so't we can do just what we want . 
Of course there may be one explanation of why Walter's still there J. A. maybe hasn't noticed that he IS there . 
There's so many I expect he hardly knows him by sight . 
Well , just do quit thinking about it , she urged him . 
It only bothers you without doing any good . 
Don't you know that ? Don't I , though ! he laughed , feebly . 
Yes , I know , he said . 
Truth is , nobody could tell the difference , and I don't know as there IS any difference except in these improvements I'm making . 
No , he said , slowly . 
I can't see how he could do anything . 
It was just a secret , not a patent the thing ain't patentable . 
I've tried to think what he could do supposing he was to want to but I can't figure out anything at all that would be any harm to me . 
There isn't any way in the world it could be made a question of law . 
Only thing he could do'd be to TELL people his side of it , and set 'em against me . 
I been kind of waiting for that to happen , all along . 
So did I expect it , she said . 
I was dreading it most on Alice's account it might have well , young men are so easily influenced and all . 
But so far as the business is concerned , what if Mr. Lamb did talk ? That wouldn't amount to much . 
It wouldn't affect the business not to hurt . 
And , besides , he isn't even doing that . 
No anyhow not yet , it seems . 
And Adams sighed again , wistfully . 
But shame is the rarest thing in the world what he felt was this unremittent curiosity about his old employer's thoughts . 
But people do meet unexpectedly and when Adams had to be down town he kept away from the wholesale district . 
Nevertheless , in a street car , on the way back to his sheds , an hour later , he was still subject to little shivering seizures of horror . 
Moreover , the work , thus urged , went rapidly , in spite of the high wages he had to pay his labourers for their short hours . 
Six weeks from the day he had obtained his lease he began his glue making . 
The terrible smells came out of the sheds and went writhing like snakes all through that quarter of the town . 
A smiling man , strolling and breathing the air with satisfaction , would turn a corner and smile no more , but hurry . 
However , coloured people had almost all the dwellings of this old section to themselves and although even they were troubled , there was recompense for them . 
Being philosophic about what appeared to them as in the order of nature , they sought neither escape nor redress , and soon learned to bear what the wind brought them . 
But the man who produced it took a hot bath as soon as he reached his home the evening of that first day when his manufacturing began . 
Then he put on fresh clothes but after dinner he seemed to be haunted , and asked his wife if she noticed anything . 
She laughed and inquired what he meant . 
Seems to me as if that glue works smell hadn't quit hanging to me , he explained . 
Don't you notice it ? No ! What an idea ! He laughed , too , but uneasily and told her he was sure the dang glue smell was somehow sticking to him . 
Can YOU smell it ? he called to Alice , who sat upon the veranda , prettily dressed and waiting in a reverie . 
Smell what , papa ? That dang glue works . 
The idea ! The air is lovely to night , papa . 
The air did not seem lovely to him , for he was positive that he detected the taint . 
To him the whole town seemed to smell of his glue works . 
Nevertheless , the glue was making , and his sheds were busy . 
Guess we're stirrin' up this ole neighbourhood with more than the smell , his foreman remarked one morning . 
How's that ? Adams inquired . 
That great big , enormous ole dead butterine factory across the street from our lot , the man said . 
Nothin' like settin' an example to bring real estate to life . 
That place is full o' carpenters startin' in to make a regular buildin' of it again . 
Guess you ought to have the credit of it , because you was the first man in ten years to see any possibilities in this neighbourhood . 
Adams was pleased , and , going out to see for himself , heard a great hammering and sawing from within the building while carpenters were just emerging gingerly upon the dangerous roof . 
Here ! What's all this howdy do over here ? Goin' to fix her all up , I guess , the workman said . 
Big job it is , too . 
Sh' think it would be . 
Yes , sir a pretty big job a pretty big job . 
Got men at it on all four floors and on the roof . 
Who's doing it ? Lord ! I d' know . 
Some o' these here big manufacturing corporations , I guess . 
What's it going to be ? They tell ME , the workman answered they tell ME she's goin' to be a butterine factory again . 
You soon get used to it . 
You do ? The man appeared incredulous . 
Listen ! I was over in France it's a good thing them Dutchmen never thought of it we'd of had to quit ! Adams laughed , and went back to his sheds . 
I guess my foreman was right , he told his wife , that evening , with a little satisfaction . 
As soon as one man shows enterprise enough to found an industry in a broken down neighbourhood , somebody else is sure to follow . 
Things are going about as fine as I could ask I hired some girls to day to do the bottling coloured girls along about sixteen to twenty years old . 
Well , honey , Mrs. Adams said , taking confidence not only to put her hand upon his arm , but to revive this disused endearment it's grand to have you so optimistic . 
Maybe some time you'll admit I was right , after all . 
Everything's going so well , it seems a pity you didn't take this this step long ago . 
Don't you think maybe so , Virgil ? Well if I was ever going to , I don't know but I might as well of . 
I got to admit the proposition begins to look pretty good I know the stuff'll sell , and I can't see a thing in the world to stop it . 
It does look good , and if if He paused . 
If what ? she said , suddenly anxious . 
He laughed plaintively , as if confessing a superstition . 
It's funny well , it's mighty funny about that smell . 
I've got so used to it at the plant I never seem to notice it at all over there . 
It's only when I get away . 
Honestly , can't you notice ? Virgil ! She lifted her hand to strike his arm chidingly . 
Do quit harping on that nonsense ! Oh , of course it don't amount to anything , he said . 
A person can stand a good deal of just smell . 
It don't WORRY me any . 
I should think not especially as there isn't any . 
Well , he said , I feel pretty fair over the whole thing a lot better'n I ever expected to , anyhow . 
I don't know as there's any reason I shouldn't tell you so . 
Well , he said , slowly , it's a puzzle . 
Yes , sir , it's a puzzle . 
What is ? Pretty much everything , I guess . 
As he spoke , a song came to them from a lighted window over their heads . 
Then the window darkened abruptly , but the song continued as Alice went down through the house to wait on the little veranda . 
Mi chiamo Mimi , she sang , and in her voice throbbed something almost startling in its sweetness . 
Her father and mother listened , not speaking until the song stopped with the click of the wire screen at the front door as Alice came out . 
My ! said her father . 
How sweet she does sing ! I don't know as I ever heard her voice sound nicer than it did just then . 
There's something that makes it sound that way , his wife told him . 
I suppose so , he said , sighing . 
Oh , but things haven't gone that far yet . 
Why , you just said She gave a little cry of protest . 
Oh , they aren't ENGAGED yet . 
That reminds me , she said . 
What of ? he asked . 
What's my being simple remind you of ? Nothing ! she laughed . 
It wasn't you that reminded me . 
It was just something that's been on my mind . 
I don't believe he's actually ever been inside our house ! Hasn't he ? I actually don't believe he ever has , she said . 
Of course we must She paused , debating . 
We must what ? I guess I better talk to Alice about it right now , she said . 
He don't usually come for about half an hour yet I guess I've got time . 
And with that she walked away , leaving him to his puzzles . 
CHAPTER XIX Alice was softly crooning to herself as her mother turned the corner of the house and approached through the dusk . 
Isn't it the most BEAUTIFUL evening ! the daughter said . 
Alice was wistful at once . 
Don't they stay beautiful after my age ? Well , it's not the same thing . 
Isn't it ? Not ever ? You may have a different kind from mine , the mother said , a little sadly . 
I think you will , Alice . 
You deserve No , I don't . 
I don't deserve anything , and I know it . 
But I'm getting a great deal these days more than I ever dreamed COULD come to me . 
I'm I'm pretty happy , mama ! Dearie ! Her mother would have kissed her , but Alice drew away . 
Oh , I don't mean She laughed nervously . 
I wasn't meaning to tell you I'm ENGAGED , mama . 
I mean oh ! things seem pretty beautiful in spite of all I've done to spoil 'em . 
You ? Mrs. Adams cried , incredulously . 
What have you done to spoil anything ? Little things , Alice said . 
He'd just worship you , said the fond mother . 
And the more he knew you , the more he'd worship you . 
He's not the worshiping kind . 
Not like that at all . 
He's more But Mrs. Adams was not interested in this analysis , and she interrupted briskly , Of course it's time your father and I showed some interest in him . 
I was just saying I actually don't believe he's ever been inside the house . 
No , Alice said , musingly that's true I don't believe he has . 
Except when we've walked in the evening we've always sat out here , even those two times when it was drizzly . 
We'll have to do SOMETHING or other , of course , her mother said . 
What like ? I was thinking Mrs. Adams paused . 
Well , of course we could hardly put off asking him to dinner , or something , much longer . 
Alice was not enthusiastic so far from it , indeed , that there was a melancholy alarm in her voice . 
Oh , mama , must we ? Do you think so ? Yes , I do . 
Couldn't we well , couldn't we wait ? It looks queer , Mrs. Adams said . 
It isn't the thing at all for a young man to come as much as he does , and never more than just barely meet your father and mother . 
No. We ought to do something . 
But a dinner ! Alice objected . 
In the first place , there isn't anybody I want to ask . 
There isn't anybody I WOULD ask . 
I didn't mean trying to give a big dinner , her mother explained . 
I just mean having him to dinner . 
That mulatto woman , Malena Burns , goes out by the day , and she could bring a waitress . 
We can get some flowers for the table and some to put in the living room . 
She said she didn't have any engagements this week , and I can let her know to night . 
Suppose when he comes you ask him for to morrow , Alice . 
Everything'll be very nice , I'm sure . 
Well but Alice was uncertain . 
But don't you see , it looks so queer , not to do SOMETHING ? her mother urged . 
It looks so kind of poverty stricken . 
We really oughtn't to wait any longer . 
Alice assented , though not with a good heart . 
Very well , I'll ask him , if you think we've got to . 
That matter's settled then , Mrs. Adams said . 
I'll go telephone Malena , and then I'll tell your father about it . 
But when she went back to her husband , she found him in an excited state of mind , and Walter standing before him in the darkness . 
Adams was almost shouting , so great was his vehemence . 
Hush , hush ! his wife implored , as she came near them . 
They'll hear you out on the front porch ! I don't care who hears me , Adams said , harshly , though he tempered his loudness . 
No , ma'am THAT'S not what he wants ! No , it isn't , Walter said . 
In the darkness his face could not be seen he stood motionless , in what seemed an apathetic attitude and he spoke quietly , No , he repeated . 
That isn't what I want . 
He spoke to me yesterday he asked me how I was getting along with my work . 
He did ? Adams said , seeming not to believe him . 
What else did he say , Walter ? Mrs. Adams asked quickly . 
I don't believe he knew who you were , Adams declared . 
Think not ? He called me 'Walter Adams . 
You better get him to give it to me if you can . 
Yes , he said , bitterly . 
What FOR , Walter ? I got to have it , Walter said . 
But what FOR ? His quiet huskiness did not alter . 
I got to have it . 
But can't you tell us I got to have it . 
That's all you can get out of him , Adams said . 
He seems to think it'll bring him in three hundred and fifty dollars ! A faint tremulousness became evident in the husky voice . 
Haven't you got it ? NO , I haven't got it ! his father answered . 
And I've got to go to a bank for more than my pay roll next week . 
Do you think I'm a mint ? I don't understand what you mean , Walter , Mrs. Adams interposed , perplexed and distressed . 
But he hasn't got it . 
Then , as if this were his valedictory , he turned his back upon them , walked away quickly , and was at once lost to their sight in the darkness . 
There's a fine boy to've had the trouble of raising ! Adams grumbled . 
Just crazy , that's all . 
What in the world do you suppose he wants all that money for ? his wife said , wonderingly . 
I can't imagine what he could DO with it . 
I wonder if he If he what ? Adams prompted her irritably . 
If he COULD have bad associates . 
God knows ! said Adams . 
I don't ! It just looks to me like he had something in him I don't understand . 
You can't keep your eye on a boy all the time in a city this size , not a boy Walter's age . 
You got a girl pretty much in the house , but a boy'll follow his nature . 
I don't know what to do with him ! Mrs. Adams brightened a little . 
He'll come out all right , she said . 
I'm sure he'd never be anything really bad and he'll come around all right about the glue works , too you'll see . 
Of course every young man wants money it doesn't prove he's doing anything wrong just because he asks you for it . 
Oh , but Alice has probably asked him by this time , Mrs. Adams said . 
Why , it isn't going to bother you , she said just one young man as a guest . 
I do think you better , Virgil . 
I hope the moths have got in it , he said . 
Last time I wore it was to the banquet , and it was pretty old then . 
Of course I didn't mind wearing it to the banquet so much , because that was what you might call quite an occasion . 
Anyhow , as you say , I think it would look foolish of me to wear a dress suit for just one young man , he went on protesting , feebly . 
So that's it ! he said , querulously . 
You could let us have a little money for to morrow , couldn't you , honey ? Oh , I reckon , I reckon , he mumbled . 
A girl like Alice is some comfort she don't come around acting as if she'd commit suicide if she didn't get three hundred and fifty dollars in the next five minutes . 
I expect I can spare five or six dollars for your show off if I got to . 
However , she finally obtained fifteen before his bedtime and the next morning went to market after breakfast , leaving Alice to make the beds . 
Walter had not yet come downstairs . 
You had better call him , Mrs. Adams said , as she departed with a big basket on her arm . 
I expect he's pretty sleepy he was out so late last night I didn't hear him come in , though I kept awake till after midnight , listening for him . 
Tell him he'll be late to work if he doesn't hurry and see that he drinks his coffee , even if he hasn't time for anything else . 
And when Malena comes , get her started in the kitchen show her where everything is . 
She waved her hand , as she set out for a corner where the cars stopped . 
Nevertheless , Alice forgot about Walter for a few minutes . 
She closed the door , went into the living room absently , and stared vaguely at one of the old brown plush rocking chairs there . 
Upon her forehead were the little shadows of an apprehensive reverie , and her thoughts overlapped one another in a fretful jumble . 
What will he think ? These old chairs they're hideous . 
I'll scrub those soot streaks on the columns it won't do any good , though . 
That long crack in the column nothing can help it . 
What will he think of papa ? I hope mama won't talk too much . 
When he thinks of Mildred's house , or of Henrietta's , or any of 'em , beside this She said she'd buy plenty of roses that ought to help some . 
Nothing could be done about these horrible chairs can't take 'em up in the attic a room's got to have chairs ! Might have rented some . 
No if he ever comes again he'd see they weren't here . 
'If he ever comes again' oh , it won't be THAT bad ! But it won't be what he expects . 
I'm responsible for what he expects he expects just what the airs I've put on have made him expect . 
It helps some as if we'd bought it in Rome perhaps . 
I hope he'll think so he believes I've been abroad , of course . 
The other night he said , 'You remember the feeling you get in the Sainte Chapelle' . 
There's another lie of mine , not saying I didn't remember because I'd never been there . 
What makes me do it ? Papa MUST wear his evening clothes . 
But Walter With that she recalled her mother's admonition , and went upstairs to Walter's door . 
She tapped upon it with her fingers . 
Time to get up , Walter . 
The rest of us had breakfast over half an hour ago , and it's nearly eight o'clock . 
Hurry down and I'll have some coffee and toast ready for you . 
There came no sound from within the room , so she rapped louder . 
Wake up , Walter ! She called and rapped again , without getting any response , and then , finding that the door yielded to her , opened it and went in . 
Near the foot of the bed was a shallow closet where he kept his other suit and his evening clothes and the door stood open , showing a bare wall . 
Nothing whatever was in the closet , and Alice was rather surprised at this for a moment . 
They did not delay over this the coloured woman had arrived , and the basket's disclosures were important . 
I stopped at Worlig's on the way back , said Mrs. Adams , flushed with hurry and excitement . 
I bought a can of caviar there . 
Still , I think it would be nice . 
We can make them look very dainty , on a tray , and the waitress can bring them in . 
I thought we'd have the soup already on the table and we can walk right out as soon as we have the sandwiches , so it won't get cold . 
Then , after the soup , Malena says she can make sweetbread pates with mushrooms and for the meat course we'll have larded fillet . 
Malena's really a fancy cook , you know , and she says she can do anything like that to perfection . 
We'll have peas with the fillet , and potato balls and Brussels sprouts . 
Brussels sprouts are fashionable now , they told me at market . 
Don't you think perhaps it's too much , mama ? It's better to have too much than too little , her mother said , cheerfully . 
We don't want him to think we're the kind that skimp . 
Lord knows we have to enough , though , most of the time ! Get the flowers in water , child . 
I bought 'em at market because they're so much cheaper there , but they'll keep fresh and nice . 
You fix 'em any way you want . 
Hurry ! It's got to be a busy day . 
She had bought three dozen little roses . 
Alice took them and began to arrange them in vases , keeping the stems separated as far as possible so that the clumps would look larger . 
Then she took the rest of the roses to the dining room but she postponed the arrangement of them until the table should be set , just before dinner . 
If they weren't she would arrange them in a vase . 
After that , she washed the floors and the woodwork . 
Emerging from the kitchen at noon , Mrs. Adams found her daughter on hands and knees , scrubbing the bases of the columns between the hall and the living room . 
Now , dearie , she said , you mustn't tire yourself out , and you'd better come and eat something . 
Come on and we'll have something in the kitchen . 
No , Alice said , dully , as she went on with he work . 
Her mother came closer to her . 
Why , what's the matter ? she asked , briskly . 
You seem kind of pale , to me and you don't look you don't look HAPPY . 
Well Alice began , uncertainly , but said no more . 
See here ! Mrs. Adams exclaimed . 
This is all just for you ! You ought to be ENJOYING it . 
Why , it's the first time we've we've entertained in I don't know how long ! I guess it's almost since we had that little party when you were eighteen . 
What's the matter with you ? Nothing . 
But , dearie , aren't you looking FORWARD to this evening ? The girl looked up , showing a pallid and solemn face . 
Oh , yes , of course , she said , and tried to smile . 
Of course we had to do it I do think it'll be nice . 
Of course I'm looking forward to it . 
Moreover , Mr. Arthur Russell's premonitions were no product of mere coincidence neither had any magical sympathy produced them . 
His state of mind was rather the result of rougher undercurrents which had all the time been running beneath the surface of a romantic friendship . 
There ! he said to himself . 
Who's that ? And in the crowd of girls at his cousin's dance , all strangers to him , she was the one he wanted to know . 
The people who passed along the sidewalk , now and then , were only shadows with voices , moving vaguely under the maple trees that loomed in obscure contours against the stars . 
He had another anxiety and , for the greater part , this was of her own creating . 
what he heard about her , too often begged him not to hear anything . 
Lately , he had half confessed to her what a nervousness she had produced . 
You make me dread the day when I'll hear somebody speaking of you . 
She misunderstood he laughed , but his nervousness was genuine . 
On the day that was to open the closed door in the background of his pictures of Alice , Russell lunched with his relatives . 
There were but the four people , Russell and Mildred and her mother and father , in the great , cool dining room . 
From his seat at the table , Russell glanced out at this pretty display , and informed his cousins that he was surprised . 
You have such a glorious spread of flowers all over the house , he said , I didn't suppose you'd have any left out yonder . 
In fact , I didn't know there were so many splendid flowers in the world . 
Mrs. Palmer , large , calm , fair , like her daughter , responded with a mild reproach That's because you haven't been cousinly enough to get used to them , Arthur . 
You've almost taught us to forget what you look like . 
In defense Russell waved a hand toward her husband . 
You see , he's begun to keep me so hard at work But Mr. Palmer declined the responsibility . 
Up to four or five in the afternoon , perhaps , he said . 
After that , the young gentleman is as much a stranger to me as he is to my family . 
I've been wondering who she could be . 
When a man's preoccupied there must be a lady then ? Russell inquired . 
That seems to be the view of your sex , Mrs Palmer suggested . 
It was my husband who said it , not Mildred or I. Mildred smiled faintly . 
Papa may be singular in his ideas they may come entirely from his own experience , and have nothing to do with Arthur . 
Thank you , Mildred , her cousin said , bowing to her gratefully . 
He may have understood it for his own smile vanished at once in favour of a reciprocal solemnity . 
You see , Arthur , Mrs. Palmer said , Mildred is always a good cousin . 
She and I stand by you , even if you do stay away from us for weeks and weeks . 
Arthur continued to eat his grapes , but he ventured to look again at Mildred after a few moments . 
She , also , appeared to be occupied with a bunch of grapes though she ate none , and only pulled them from their stems . 
Mr. Palmer , mildly amused by what he was telling his wife , had just spoken the words , this Virgil Adams . 
What he had said was , this Virgil Adams that's the man's name . 
Who told you ? Mrs. Palmer inquired , not much interested . 
Alfred Lamb , her husband answered . 
He was laughing about his father , at the club . 
Now Alfred and James Albert , Junior , think they have a great joke on him and they've twitted him so much about it he'll scarcely speak to them . 
But he's so shrewd I can't imagine his being deceived for such a long time . 
Twenty years , you said ? Yes , longer than that , I understand . 
The old chap thought this Adams was going to have quite a future with the Lamb concern , and of course never dreamed he was dishonest . 
He would , Mrs. Palmer said , approvingly . 
He's a kind hearted creature , that old man . 
Alfred says he thinks his kind heartedness is about cured ! It seems that as soon as the man got well again he deliberately walked off with the old gentleman's glue secret . 
You said his name was Virgil Adams ? Yes . 
She looked at her daughter . 
Why , you know who that is , Mildred , she said , casually . 
It's that Alice Adams's father , isn't it ? Wasn't his name Virgil Adams ? I think it is , Mildred said . 
Mrs. Palmer turned toward her husband . 
You've seen this Alice Adams here . 
Mr. Lamb's pet swindler must be her father . 
Mr. Palmer passed a smooth hand over his neat gray hair , which was not disturbed by this effort to stimulate recollection . 
Oh , yes , he said . 
Quite a good looking girl one of Mildred's friends . 
How queer ! Mildred looked up , as if in a little alarm , but did not speak . 
Her mother set matters straight . 
Oh , I shouldn't put it quite that way about Alice Adams , she said , in a low voice . 
I saw something of her for a time . 
She's not unattractive in a way . 
Mrs. Palmer settled the whole case of Alice carelessly . 
A pushing sort of girl , she said . 
A very pushing little person . 
I Mildred began and , after hesitating , concluded , I rather dropped her . 
Fortunate you've done so , her father remarked , cheerfully . 
Especially since various members of the Lamb connection are here frequently . 
They mightn't think you'd show great tact in having her about the place . 
He laughed , and turned to his cousin . 
All this isn't very interesting to poor Arthur . 
She smiled whimsically upon the young man . 
Tell the truth , she said . 
Don't you fairly detest going into business with that tyrant yonder ? What ? Yes I beg your pardon ! he stammered . 
You were right , Mrs. Palmer said to her husband . 
You've bored him so , talking about thievish clerks , he can't even answer an honest question . 
But Russell was beginning to recover his outward composure . 
Try me again , he said . 
I'm afraid I was thinking of something else . 
This was the best he found to say . 
There was a part of him that wanted to protest and deny , but he had not heat enough , in the chill that had come upon him . 
There was the deadliness of the story its lack of malice , even of resentment . 
Deadlier still were Mrs. Palmer's phrases a pushing sort of girl , a very pushing little person , and used to be a bit TOO conspicuous , in fact . 
But she spoke placidly and by chance being as obviously without unkindly motive as Mr. Palmer was when he related the cause of Alfred Lamb's amusement . 
Her opinion of the obscure young lady momentarily her topic had been expressed , moreover , to her husband , and at her own table . 
She noticed his colour , and attributed it to the embarrassment of a scrupulously gallant gentleman caught in a lapse of attention to a lady . 
Don't be disturbed , she said , benevolently . 
People aren't expected to listen all the time to their relatives . 
A high colour's very becoming to you , Arthur but it really isn't necessary between cousins . 
You can always be informal enough with us to listen only when you care to . 
His complexion continued to be ruddier than usual , however , throughout the meal , and was still somewhat tinted when Mrs. Palmer rose . 
The man's bringing you cigarettes here , she said , nodding to the two gentlemen . 
We'll give you a chance to do the sordid kind of talking we know you really like . 
Afterwhile , Mildred will show you what's in bloom in the hothouse , if you wish , Arthur . 
Mrs. Palmer looked thoughtfully at her daughter's back , but did not speak to her until coffee had been brought for them . 
Thanks , Mildred said , not turning , I don't care for any coffee , I believe . 
No ? Mrs. Palmer said , gently . 
I'm afraid our good looking cousin won't think you're very talkative , Mildred . 
You spoke only about twice at lunch . 
Mama , I don't think that was the reason . 
I don't think it was because he wasn't listening , I mean . 
I think it happened because you and papa She stopped . 
Yes ? Mrs. Palmer said , good naturedly , to prompt her . 
Your father and I did something embarrassing ? Mama , it was because of those things that came out about Alice Adams . 
How could that bother Arthur ? Does he know her ? Don't you remember ? the daughter asked . 
The day after my dance I mentioned how odd I thought it was in him I was a little disappointed in him . 
I'd been seeing that he met everybody , of course , but she was the only girl HE asked to meet and he did it as soon as he noticed her . 
I thought Arthur was above all that or at the very least I gave him credit for being too sophisticated . 
I see , Mrs. Palmer said , thoughtfully . 
I remember now that you spoke of it . 
You said it seemed a little peculiar , but of course it really wasn't a 'new man' has nothing to go by , except his own first impressions . 
You can't blame poor Arthur she's quite a piquant looking little person . 
You think he's seen something of her since then ? Mildred nodded slowly . 
I'd seen quite a little of her Yes , said Mrs. Palmer . 
She did keep coming here ! But I'd just about decided that it really wouldn't do , Mildred went on . 
She isn't well , I didn't admire her . 
No , her mother assented , and evidently followed a direct connection of thought in a speech apparently irrelevant . 
I understand the young Malone wants to marry Henrietta . 
I hope she won't he seems rather a gross type of person . 
Oh , he's just one , Mildred said . 
I don't know that he and Alice Adams were ever engaged she never told me so . 
It wasn't long before I saw they were right , though . 
At any rate , I had to send him a card but I didn't intend to be let in for that sort of thing again , of course . 
She's what you said , 'pushing' though I'm awfully sorry you said it . 
Why shouldn't I have said it , my dear ? Of course I didn't say 'shouldn't . 
I meant only that I'm sorry it happened . 
He'd never said he CARED for me , but after that I could see he didn't . 
It was clear after that . 
I didn't know what had happened I couldn't think of anything I'd done . 
Mama it was Alice Adams . 
Mildred repeated the last sentence of her revelation , and introduced a stress of insistence . 
What makes you think so ? Henrietta told me yesterday . 
At this Mrs. Palmer permitted herself to laugh softly aloud . 
Good heavens ! Is Henrietta a soothsayer ? Or is she Arthur's particular confidante ? No. Ella Dowling told her . 
Now we have it ! she exclaimed . 
It's a game of gossip Arthur tells Ella , Ella tells Henrietta , and Henrietta tells Don't laugh , please , mama , Mildred begged . 
Of course Arthur didn't tell anybody . 
It's roundabout enough , but it's true . 
I know it ! I hadn't quite believed it , but I knew it was true when he got so red . 
He looked oh , for a second or so he looked stricken ! He thought I didn't notice it . 
Mama , he's been to see her almost every evening lately . 
They take long walks together . 
That's why he hasn't been here . 
Of Mrs. Palmer's laughter there was left only her indulgent smile , which she had not allowed to vanish . 
Well , what of it ? she said . 
Mama ! Yes , said Mrs. Palmer . 
What of it ? But don't you see ? Mildred's well tutored voice , though modulated and repressed even in her present emotion , nevertheless had a tendency to quaver . 
Frank Dowling was going to see her one evening and he saw Arthur sitting on the stoop with her , and didn't go in . 
And Ella used to go to school with a girl who lives across the street from here . 
She told Ella Oh , I understand , Mrs. Palmer interrupted . 
Suppose he does go there . 
My dear , I said , 'What of it ? I don't see what you mean , mama . 
Nonsense ! Mrs. Palmer rose , went to a window , and , turning there , stood with her back to it , facing her daughter and looking at her cheerfully . 
Nonsense , my dear ! It was perfectly clear that she was mentioned by accident , and so was her father . 
What an extraordinary man ! If Arthur makes friends with people like that , he certainly knows better than to expect to hear favourable opinions of them . 
Besides , it's only a little passing thing with him . 
Mama ! When he goes there almost every Yes , Mrs. Palmer said , dryly . 
It seems to me I've heard somewhere that other young men have gone there 'almost every ! She doesn't last , apparently . 
Arthur's gallant , and he's impressionable but he's fastidious , and fastidiousness is always the check on impressionableness . 
A girl belongs to her family , too and this one does especially , it strikes me ! Arthur's very sensible he sees more than you'd think . 
Mildred looked at her hopefully . 
Then you don't believe he's likely to imagine we said those things of her in any meaning way ? At this , Mrs. Palmer laughed again . 
There's one thing you seem not to have noticed , Mildred . 
What's that ? It seems to have escaped your attention that he never said a word . 
Mightn't that mean ? Mildred began , but she stopped . 
No , it mightn't , her mother replied , comprehending easily . 
On the contrary , it might mean that instead of his feeling it too deeply to speak , he was getting a little illumination . 
Mildred rose and came to her . 
If it is , she's well paid by what your father and I said , because we wouldn't have said it if we'd known that Arthur She checked herself quickly . 
Looking over her daughter's shoulder , she saw the two gentlemen coming from the corridor toward the wide doorway of the room and she greeted them cheerfully . 
If you've finished with each other for a while , she added , Arthur may find it a relief to put his thoughts on something prettier than a trust company and more fragrant . 
Your mother said at lunch that perhaps you'd I didn't say 'perhaps , Arthur , Mrs. Palmer interrupted , to correct him . 
If you care to see and smell those lovely things out yonder , she'll show them to you . 
Run along , children ! Half an hour later , glancing from a window , she saw them come from the hothouses and slowly cross the lawn . 
Arthur had a fine rose in his buttonhole and looked profoundly thoughtful . 
Even on such a day , sizzling work had to be done , as in winter . 
No doubt she risked her life , but she risked it cheerfully in so good and necessary a service for him . 
She would have given her life for him at any time , and both his and her own for her children . 
Unconscious of her own heroism , she was surprised to find herself rather faint when she finished her ironing . 
They served her need , or her faith in them did and she returned to her work . 
Alice , DON'T ! her mother said , commiseratingly . 
You did all that this morning and it looks lovely . 
What's the use of wearing yourself out on it ? You ought to be lying down , so's to look fresh for to night . 
Hadn't you better lie down yourself ? the daughter returned . 
Are you ill , mama ? Certainly not . 
What in the world makes you think so ? You look pretty pale , Alice said , and sighed heavily . 
It makes me ashamed , having you work so hard for me . 
How foolish ! I think it's fun , getting ready to entertain a little again , like this . 
I only wish it hadn't turned so hot I'm afraid your poor father'll suffer his things are pretty heavy , I noticed . 
Well , it'll do him good to bear something for style's sake this once , anyhow ! She laughed , and coming to Alice , bent down and kissed her . 
Do ! Mrs. Adams urged . 
You don't want to look worn out , do you ? I'll LOOK all right , Alice said , huskily . 
Do you like the way I've arranged the furniture now ? I've tried all the different ways it'll go . 
It's lovely , her mother said , admiringly . 
I thought the last way you had it was pretty , too . 
But you know best I never knew anybody with so much taste . 
If you'd only just quit now , and take a little rest There'd hardly be time , even if I wanted to it's after five but I couldn't really , I couldn't . 
How do you think we can manage about Walter to see that he wears his evening things , I mean ? Mrs. Adams pondered . 
I'm afraid he'll make a lot of objections , on account of the weather and everything . 
I wish we'd had a chance to tell him last night or this morning . 
I'd have telephoned to him this afternoon except well , I scarcely like to call him up at that place , since your father No , of course not , mama . 
If Walter gets home late , Mrs. Adams went on , I'll just slip out and speak to him , in case Mr. Russell's here before he comes . 
I'll just tell him he's got to hurry and get his things on . 
Maybe he won't come home to dinner , Alice suggested , rather hopefully . 
No I think he'll be here . 
When he doesn't come he usually telephones by this time to say not to wait for him he's very thoughtful about that . 
Well , it really is getting late I must go and tell her she ought to be preparing her fillet . 
Dearie , DO rest a little . 
You'd much better do that yourself , Alice called after her , but Mrs. Adams shook her head cheerily , not pausing on her way to the fiery kitchen . 
Waiting there , in a languid attitude , was a young coloured woman , with a small bundle under her arm and something malleable in her mouth . 
You folks expectin' a coloured lady ? No , said Alice . 
Especially not at the front door . 
Listen , the coloured woman said again . 
Ain't they another coloured lady awready here by the day ? Listen . 
Ain't Miz Malena Burns here by the day this evenin' ? Say , listen . 
This the number house she give ME . 
Are you the waitress ? Alice asked , dismally . 
Yes'm , if Malena here . 
Malena is here , Alice said , and hesitated but she decided not to send the waitress to the back door it might be a risk . 
What's your name ? Me ? I'm name' Gertrude . 
Did you bring a cap and apron ? Gertrude took the little bundle from under her arm . 
I've already set the table , Alice said . 
I'll show you what we want done . 
Malena says it was hard enough to get HER ! You have to pay them so much that they only work when they feel like it . 
And she MUST quit that terrible chewing ! Never mind I'll get to work with her . 
I'll straighten her out all I can , dearie don't worry . 
Mrs. Adams patted her daughter's shoulder encouragingly . 
Now YOU can't do another thing , and if you don't run and begin dressing you won't be ready . 
It'll only take me a minute to dress , myself , and I'll be down long before you will . 
Run , darling ! I'll look after everything . 
She laid it carefully upon her bed , and began to make ready to put it on . 
Her mother came in , half an hour later , to fasten her . 
I'M all dressed , Mrs. Adams said , briskly . 
Of course it doesn't matter . 
He won't know what the rest of us even look like How could he ? I know I'm an old SIGHT , but all I want is to look respectable . 
Do I ? You look like the best woman in the world that's all ! Alice said , with a little gulp . 
Her mother laughed and gave her a final scrutiny . 
You might use just a tiny bit more colour , dearie I'm afraid the excitement's made you a little pale . 
And you MUST brighten up ! There's sort of a look in your eyes as if you'd got in a trance and couldn't get out . 
You've had it all day . 
I must run your father wants me to help him with his studs . 
Walter hasn't come yet , but I'll look after him don't worry , And you better HURRY , dearie , if you're going to take any time fixing the flowers on the table . 
She departed , while Alice sat at the mirror again , to follow her advice concerning a tiny bit more colour . 
Before she had finished , her father knocked at the door , and , when she responded , came in . 
He was dressed in the clothes his wife had pressed but he had lost substantially in weight since they were made for him no one would have thought that they had been pressed . 
They hung from him voluminously , seeming to be the clothes of a larger man . 
Your mother's gone downstairs , he said , in a voice of distress . 
One of the buttonholes in my shirt is too large and I can't keep the dang thing fastened . 
I don't know what to do about it ! I only got one other white shirt , and it's kind of ruined I tried it before I did this one . 
Do you s'pose you could do anything ? I'll see , she said . 
My collar's got a frayed edge , he complained , as she examined his troublesome shirt . 
It's a good deal like wearing a saw but I expect it'll wilt down flat pretty soon , and not bother me long . 
I'm liable to wilt down flat , myself , I expect I don't know as I remember any such hot night in the last ten or twelve years . 
He lifted his head and sniffed the flaccid air , which was laden with a heavy odour . 
My , but that smell is pretty strong ! he said . 
Stand still , please , papa , Alice begged him . 
I can't see what's the matter if you move around . 
How absurd you are about your old glue smell , papa ! There isn't a vestige of it , of course . 
I didn't mean glue , he informed her . 
Is that fashionable now , to have cabbage when there's company for dinner ? That isn't cabbage , papa . 
Oh , is it ? I don't mind it much , because it keeps that glue smell off me , but it's fairly strong . 
I expect you don't notice it so much because you been in the house with it all along , and got used to it while it was growing . 
It is pretty dreadful , Alice said . 
Are all the windows open downstairs ? I'll go down and see , if you'll just fix that hole up for me . 
I'm afraid I can't , she said . 
Not unless you take your shirt off and bring it to me . 
I'll have to sew the hole smaller . 
Oh , well , I'll go ask your mother to No , said Alice . 
She's got everything on her hands . 
Run and take it off . 
Hurry , papa I've got to arrange the flowers on the table before he comes . 
He went away , and came back presently , half undressed , bringing the shirt . 
There's ONE comfort , he remarked , pensively , as she worked . 
I've got that collar off for a while , anyway . 
I wish I could go to table like this I could stand it a good deal better . 
Do you seem to be making any headway with the dang thing ? I think probably I can Downstairs the door bell rang , and Alice's arms jerked with the shock . 
Golly ! her father said . 
Did you stick your finger with that fool needle ? She gave him a blank stare . 
He's come ! She was not mistaken , for , upon the little veranda , Russell stood facing the closed door at last . 
However , it remained closed for a considerable time after he rang . 
Inside the house the warning summons of the bell was immediately followed by another sound , audible to Alice and her father as a crash preceding a series of muffled falls . 
Then came a distant voice , bitter in complaint . 
Oh , Lord ! said Adams . 
What's that ? Alice went to the top of the front stairs , and her mother appeared in the hall below . 
Mama ! Mrs. Adams looked up . 
It's all right , she said , in a loud whisper . 
Gertrude fell down the cellar stairs . 
Somebody left a bucket there , and She was interrupted by a gasp from Alice , and hastened to reassure her . 
She may limp a little , but Adams leaned over the banisters . 
Did she break anything ? he asked . 
Hush ! his wife whispered . 
No. She seems upset and angry about it , more than anything else but she's rubbing herself , and she'll be all right in time to bring in the little sandwiches . 
Alice ! Those flowers ! I know , mama . 
But Hurry ! Mrs. Adams warned her . 
Both of you hurry ! I MUST let him in ! She turned to the door , smiling cordially , even before she opened it . 
Do come right in , Mr. Russell , she said , loudly , lifting her voice for additional warning to those above . 
I'm SO glad to receive you informally , this way , in our own little home . 
There's a hat rack here under the stairway , she continued , as Russell , murmuring some response , came into the hall . 
Do sit down , Mr. Russell it's so very warm it's really quite a trial just to stand up ! Thank you , he said , as he took a seat . 
And this seemed to be the extent of his responsiveness for the moment . 
She beamed upon him , and used with everything she said a continuous accompaniment of laughter , meaningless except that it was meant to convey cordiality . 
Of course we DO have a great deal of warm weather , she informed him . 
I'm glad it's so much cooler in the house than it is outdoors . 
And , stopping with this single untruth , he permitted himself the briefest glance about the room then his eyes returned to his smiling hostess . 
Most people make a great fuss about hot weather , she said . 
The only person I know who doesn't mind the heat the way other people do is Alice . 
She always seems as cool as if we had a breeze blowing , no matter how hot it is . 
But then she's so amiable she never minds anything . 
She's always been that way since she was a little child always the same to everybody , high and low . 
Indeed it is , she agreed with herself , never failing to continue her murmur of laughter . 
That's what I've always told Alice but she never sees anything good in herself , and she just laughs at me when I praise her . 
She sees good in everybody ELSE in the world , no matter how unworthy they are , or how they behave toward HER but she always underestimates herself . 
From the time she was a little child she was always that way . 
The teachers had to tell me when she took a prize she'd bring it home and keep it in her room without a word about it to her father and mother . 
Now , Walter was just the other way . 
Walter would But here Mrs. Adams checked herself , though she increased the volume of her laughter . 
How silly of me ! she exclaimed . 
I expect you know how mothers ARE , though , Mr. Russell . 
Give us a chance and we'll talk about our children forever ! Alice would feel terribly if she knew how I've been going on about her to you . 
In this Mrs. Adams was right , though she did not herself suspect it , and upon an almost inaudible word or two from him she went on with her topic . 
Of course my excuse is that few mothers have a daughter like Alice . 
I suppose we all think the same way about our children , but SOME of us must be right when we feel we've got the best . 
Don't you think so ? Yes . 
I'm sure I am ! she laughed . 
I'll let the others speak for themselves . 
No I think a mother knows when she's got a treasure in her family . 
If she HASN'T got one , she'll pretend she has , maybe but if she has , she knows it . 
I certainly know I have . 
She's always been what people call 'the joy of the household' always cheerful , no matter what went wrong , and always ready to smooth things over with some bright , witty saying . 
No , I'll He paused , and finished lamely I'll not tell her . 
About half a dozen of them were just BOUND to marry her ! Naturally , her father and I considered any such idea ridiculous she was too young , of course . 
It's pulled out again , he said . 
But I guess there's no help for it now it's too late , and anyway it lets some air into me when it bulges . 
I can sit so's it won't be noticed much , I expect . 
Hadn't you better go and Just a minute . 
Do YOU think it looks all right ? The flowers ? Fine ! Hadn't you better leave 'em the way they are , though ? Just a minute , she begged again . 
Just ONE minute , papa ! And she exchanged a rose in front of Russell's plate for one that seemed to her a little larger . 
You better come on , Adams said , moving to the door . 
Just ONE more second , papa . 
She shook her head , lamenting . 
Oh , I wish we'd rented some silver ! Why ? Because so much of the plating has rubbed off a lot of it . 
JUST a second , papa . 
There ! she sighed , finally . 
But at the door she paused to look back dubiously , over her shoulder . 
What's the matter now ? The roses . 
I believe after all I shouldn't have tried that vine effect I ought to have kept them in water , in the vase . 
It's so hot , they already begin to look a little wilted , out on the dry tablecloth like that . 
I believe I'll Why , look here , Alice ! he remonstrated , as she seemed disposed to turn back . 
Everything'll burn up on the stove if you keep on Oh , well , she said , the vase was terribly ugly I can't do any better . 
But with her hand on the door knob she paused . 
We mustn't go in by this door . 
It might look as if As if what ? Never mind , she said . 
Let's go the other way . 
I don't see what difference it makes , he grumbled , but nevertheless followed her through the kitchen , and up the back stairs then through the upper hallway . 
At the top of the front stairs she paused for a moment , drawing a deep breath and then , before her father's puzzled eyes , a transformation came upon her . 
How terrible of me ! she exclaimed . 
To be so late coming down ! And papa , too I think you know each other . 
I guess dinner's more'n ready , he said . 
We better go sit down . 
But she shook her head at him fiercely , Wait ! she whispered . 
What for ? For Walter ? No he can't be coming , she returned , hurriedly , and again warned him by a shake of her head . 
Be quiet ! Oh , well he muttered . 
Meanwhile , Alice prattled on It's really not a fault of mine , being tardy . 
The shameful truth is I was trying to hurry papa . 
He's incorrigible he stays so late at his terrible old factory terrible new factory , I should say . 
She halted before Adams , facing him . 
What you want o' me ? he asked . 
For response , she extended the tray toward him with a gesture of indifference but he still appeared to be puzzled . 
What in the world ? he began , then caught his wife's eye , and had presence of mind enough to take a damp and plastic sandwich from the tray . 
However , as she had crossed the room to Mrs. Adams he checked the gesture , and sat helplessly , with the sandwich in his hand . 
Alice was a loyal daughter . 
These are delicious , mama , she said and turning to Russell , You missed it you should have taken one . 
Well , well ! Adams said , rising from his chair , with relief . 
That's good ! Let's go see if we can eat it . 
And as the little group moved toward the open door of the dining room he disposed of his sandwich by dropping it in the empty fireplace . 
Alice , glancing back over her shoulder , was the only one who saw him , and she shuddered in spite of herself . 
CHAPTER XXII Alice kept her sprightly chatter going when they sat down , though the temperature of the room and the sight of hot soup might have discouraged a less determined gayety . 
Only Mrs. Adams made any progress in this direction the others merely feinting , now and then lifting their spoons as if they intended to do something with them . 
Alice's talk was little more than cheerful sound , but , to fill a desolate interval , served its purpose and her mother supported her with ever faithful cooings of applausive laughter . 
What a funny thing weather is ! the girl ran on . 
Gertrude was leaning against the wall , her chin moving like a slow pendulum , her streaked eyes fixed mutinously upon Russell . 
Mrs. Adams nodded several times , increasing the emphasis of her gesture , while Alice talked briskly but the brooding waitress continued to brood . 
Imagine our trying to eat anything so hot as soup on a night like this ! Alice laughed . 
She looked round at Gertrude , who stood behind her . 
However , she finally set herself in slow motion but overlooked the supposed head of the table , seeming to be unaware of the sweltering little man who sat there . 
As she disappeared toward the kitchen with but three of the cups upon her tray he turned to look plaintively after her , and ventured an attempt to recall her . 
Here ! he said , in a low voice . 
Here , you ! What is it , Virgil ? his wife asked . 
Unfortunately Alice was not observing her mother , and asked , innocently What's whose name , papa ? Why , this young darky woman , he explained . 
Never mind , Alice laughed . 
There's hope for you , papa . 
She hasn't gone forever ! I don't know about that , he said , not content with this impulsive assurance . 
She LOOKED like she is . 
And his remark , considered as a prediction , had begun to seem warranted before Gertrude's return with china preliminary to the next stage of the banquet . 
She smoothed over her father and mother for Russell and she smoothed over him for them , though he did not know it , and remained unaware of what he owed her . 
He pleased Adams , who thought him a fine young man , and decidedly the quietest that Alice had ever shown to her family . 
Her smoothing over of things was an almost continuous performance , and had to be . 
With the arrival of coffee , the host bestirred himself to make known a hospitable regret , By George ! he said . 
I meant to buy some cigars . 
He addressed himself apologetically to the guest . 
I don't know what I was thinking about , to forget to bring some home with me . 
I don't use 'em myself unless somebody hands me one , you might say . 
I've always been a pipe smoker , pure and simple , but I ought to remembered for kind of an occasion like this . 
Not at all , Russell said . 
I'm not smoking at all lately but when I do , I'm like you , and smoke a pipe . 
If he had remembered , she thought , he could not have helped glancing at her . 
Well , Mr. Russell , I guess you're right , at that . 
Mrs. Adams spoke to Gertrude in an undertone Just say , 'Not at home . 
What ? If it's callers , just say we're not at home . 
Gertrude spoke out freely You mean you astin' me to 'tend you' front do' fer you ? She seemed both incredulous and affronted , but Mrs. Adams persisted , though somewhat apprehensively . 
Just say we're not at home if you please . 
Again Gertrude obviously hesitated between compliance and revolt , and again the meeker course fortunately prevailed with her . 
She gave Mrs. Adams a stare , grimly derisive , then departed . 
When she came back she said He say he wait . 
But I told you to tell anybody we were not at home , Mrs Adams returned . 
Who is it ? Say he name Mr. Law . 
We don't know any Mr. Law . 
Say he anxious to speak Mr. Adams . 
Tell him Mr. Adams is engaged . 
Hold on a minute , Adams intervened . 
Law ? No. I don't know any Mr. Law . 
You sure you got the name right ? Say he name Law , Gertrude replied , looking at the ceiling to express her fatigue . 
'S all he tell me 's all I know . 
Wasn't it maybe 'Lohr ? Law , Gertrude repeated . 
'S all he tell me 's all I know . 
What's he look like ? He ain't much , she said . 
'Bout you' age got brustly white moustache , nice eye glasses . 
It's Charley Lohr ! Adams exclaimed . 
I'll go see what he wants . 
But , Virgil , his wife remonstrated , do finish your coffee he might stay all evening . 
Maybe he's come to call . 
He isn't much of a caller , I expect . 
Don't worry I'll take him up to my room . 
And turning toward Russell , Ah if you'll just excuse me , he said and went out to his visitor . 
When he had gone , Mrs. Adams finished her coffee , and , having glanced intelligently from her guest to her daughter , she rose . 
Then she shot her vivacity back into place as by some powerful spring . 
Penny for your thoughts ! she cried , and tossed one of the wilted roses at him , across the table . 
I'm afraid I haven't any . 
No , of course not , she said . 
Let's go in the other room your fearful duty is almost done , and you can run home as soon as you want to . 
That's what you're dying to do . 
Not at all , he said in a voice so feeble that she laughed aloud . 
Good gracious ! she cried . 
Has it really been so frightful ? she asked . 
Why , of course not . 
Of course yes , though , you mean ! Not at all . 
It's been most kind of your mother and father and you . 
Tell me ! Not at all . 
You are ill I'm sure of it . 
On your word ? I'm really quite all right . 
Tell auntie ! It was a mistake , for he seemed to flinch , and to lean backward , however , slightly . 
She turned away instantly , with a flippant lift and drop of both hands . 
Oh , my dear ! she laughed . 
Let's go out on the porch , she said . 
Where we belong ! Then , when he had followed her out , and they were seated , Isn't this better ? she asked . 
Don't you feel more like yourself out here ? He began a murmur Not at But she cut him off sharply Please don't say 'Not at all' again ! I'm sorry . 
You do seem sorry about something , she said . 
What is it ? Isn't it time you were telling me what's the matter ? Nothing . 
Of course one IS rather affected by such weather as this . 
It may make one a little quieter than usual , of course . 
She sighed , and let the tired muscles of her face rest . 
Under the hard lights , indoors , they had served her until they ached , and it was a luxury to feel that in the darkness no grimacings need call upon them . 
Of course , if you won't tell me she said . 
I can only assure you there's nothing to tell . 
I know what an ugly little house it is , she said . 
Maybe it was the furniture or mama's vases that upset you . 
Or was it mama herself or papa ? Nothing 'upset' me . 
At that she uttered a monosyllable of doubting laughter . 
I wonder why you say that . 
No. It's because you're too kind , or too conscientious , or too embarrassed anyhow too something to tell me . 
She leaned forward , elbows on knees and chin in hands , in the reflective attitude she knew how to make graceful . 
I have a feeling that you're not going to tell me , she said , slowly . 
Yes even that you're never going to tell me . 
I wonder I wonder Yes ? What do you wonder ? I was just thinking I wonder if they haven't done it , after all . 
Are you sure ? Why , yes . 
How curious ! she said . 
Why ? Because all evening you've been so utterly different . 
But in this weather No. That wouldn't make you afraid to look at me all evening ! But I did look at you . 
No. Not really a LOOK . 
But I'm looking at you now . 
Yes in the dark ! she said . 
No the weather might make you even quieter than usual , but it wouldn't strike you so nearly dumb . 
No and it wouldn't make you seem to be under such a strain as if you thought only of escape ! But I haven't You shouldn't , she interrupted , gently . 
There's nothing you have to escape from , you know . 
You aren't committed to to this friendship . 
I'm sorry you think he began , but did not complete the fragment . 
Oh , no , he protested , feebly . 
I'm Never mind , she said again . 
You're sorry I think you're so different and all in one day since last night . 
Yes , your voice SOUNDS sorry , too . 
It sounds sorrier than it would just because of my thinking something you could change my mind about in a minute so it means you're sorry you ARE different . 
No I But disregarding the faint denial , Never mind , she said . 
Are you sure ? Indeed I am , he answered in a low voice , but with conviction . 
Well but I haven't driven you away . 
No. And yet you've gone , she said , quietly . 
Do I seem so stupid as all that ? You know what I mean . 
She leaned back in her chair again , and her hands , inactive for once , lay motionless in her lap . 
When she spoke it was in a rueful whisper I wonder if I HAVE driven you away ? You've done nothing nothing at all , he said . 
I wonder she said once more , but she stopped . 
Do you know ? she said , suddenly , in a clear , loud voice . 
I have the strangest feeling . 
I feel as if I were going to be with you only about five minutes more in all the rest of my life ! Why , no , he said . 
Of course I'm coming to see you often . 
I No , she interrupted . 
I've never had a feeling like this before . 
It's it's just SO that's all ! You're GOING why , you're never coming here again ! She stood up , abruptly , beginning to tremble all over . 
Why , it's FINISHED , isn't it ? she said , and her trembling was manifest now in her voice . 
Why , it's all OVER , isn't it ? Why , yes ! He had risen as she did . 
I'm afraid you're awfully tired and nervous , he said . 
I really ought to be going . 
Yes , of COURSE you ought , she cried , despairingly . 
There's nothing else for you to do . 
When anything's spoiled , people CAN'T do anything but run away from it . 
So good bye ! At least , he returned , huskily , we'll only only say good night . 
Then , as moving to go , he stumbled upon the veranda steps , Your HAT ! she cried . 
You poor thing ! she said , with quavering laughter . 
What a thing to say ! she cried . 
Russell paused at the steps , uncertain , but Alice waved to him to go on . 
Oh , don't bother , she said . 
CHAPTER XXIII Her mother's wailing could still be heard from overhead , though more faintly and old Charley Lohr was coming down the stairs alone . 
He looked at Alice compassionately . 
I was just comin' to suggest maybe you'd excuse yourself from your company , he said . 
Your mother was bound not to disturb you , and tried her best to keep you from hearin' how she's takin' on , but I thought probably you better see to her . 
What's the matter ? Well , he said , I only stepped over to offer my sympathy and services , as it were . 
I thought of course you folks knew all about it . 
Fact is , it was in the evening paper just a little bit of an item on the back page , of course . 
What is it ? He coughed . 
Well , it ain't anything so terrible , he said . 
Fact is , your brother Walter's got in a little trouble well , I suppose you might call it quite a good deal of trouble . 
Fact is , he's quite considerable short in his accounts down at Lamb and Company . 
Alice ran up the stairs and into her father's room , where Mrs. Adams threw herself into her daughter's arms . 
Is he gone ? she sobbed . 
He didn't hear me , did he ? I tried so hard Alice patted the heaving shoulders her arms enclosed . 
No , no , she said . 
He didn't hear you it wouldn't have mattered he doesn't matter anyway . 
Oh , POOR Walter ! The mother cried . 
Adams paced furiously there , pounding his fist into his left palm as he strode . 
The dang boy ! he said . 
Dang little fool ! Dang idiot ! Dang fool ! Whyn't he TELL me , the dang little fool ? He DID ! Mrs. Adams sobbed . 
He DID tell you , and you wouldn't GIVE it to him . 
He DID , did he ? Adams shouted at her . 
What he begged me for was money to run away with ! He never dreamed of putting back what he took . 
What the dangnation you talking about accusing me ! He NEEDED it , she said . 
Ah I'll just be goin' , I guess , Virgil , Lohr said . 
I don't see as there's any use my tryin' to say any more . 
I'll do anything you want me to , you understand . 
Wait a minute , Adams said , and , groaning , came and went down the stairs with him . 
But look here , Virgil , I don't see as this calls for you and your wife to take on so hard about anyhow not as hard as the way you've started . 
It always seems that way to the other party that's only looking on ! Oh , well , I know that , of course , old Charley returned , soothingly . 
Every cent ! Adams vociferated . 
Every last penny ! I can raise it I GOT to raise it ! I'm going to put a loan on my factory to morrow . 
Oh , I'll get it for him , you tell him ! Every last penny ! Well , ole feller , you just try and get quieted down some now . 
Charley held out his hand in parting . 
You and your wife just quiet down some . 
You AIN'T the healthiest man in the world , you know , and you already been under quite some strain before this happened . 
You want to take care of yourself for the sake of your wife and that sweet little girl upstairs , you know . 
Now , good night , he finished , stepping out upon the veranda . 
You send for me if there's anything I can do . 
Oh , poor Alice ! she moaned , clinging to her daughter's hand . 
Don't say 'poor Alice ! I'm all right . 
You MUST be ! her mother cried , clutching her . 
She could neither be stilled upon it , nor herself exhaust its urgings to self reproach , though she finally took up another theme temporarily . 
So the hot night wore on . 
Three had struck before Mrs. Adams was got to bed and Alice , returning to her own room , could hear her father's bare feet thudding back and forth after that . 
Poor papa ! she whispered in helpless imitation of her mother . 
In her wrapper she ran out into the hallway and found him descending the stairs . 
Papa ! Hush , he said , and looked up at her with reddened eyes . 
I won't , she whispered . 
How about you ? You haven't slept any at all ! Yes , I did . 
I'm going over to the works now . 
I got to throw some figures together to show the bank . 
Don't worry I'll get things fixed up . 
You go back to bed . 
Wait ! she bade him sharply . 
What for ? You've got to have some breakfast . 
You wait ! she said , imperiously , and disappeared to return almost at once . 
And I'm going to telephone for a taxicab to take you , if you think you've really got to go . 
No , I'm going to walk I WANT to walk . 
She shook her head anxiously . 
No , I didn't , he returned . 
I tell you I got some sleep . 
I got all I wanted anyhow . 
But , papa Here ! he interrupted , looking up at her suddenly and setting down his cup of coffee . 
Look here ! What about this Mr. Russell ? I forgot all about him . 
What about him ? Her lip trembled a little , but she controlled it before she spoke . 
Well , what about him , papa ? she asked , calmly enough . 
Well , we could hardly Adams paused , frowning heavily . 
We could hardly expect he wouldn't hear something about all this . 
Yes of course he'll hear it , papa . 
Well ? Well , what ? she asked , gently . 
You don't think he'd be the the cheap kind it'd make a difference with , of course . 
Oh , no he isn't cheap . 
It won't make any difference with him . 
Adams suffered a profound sigh to escape him . 
Well I'm glad of that , anyway . 
The difference , she explained the difference was made without his hearing anything about Walter . 
He doesn't know about THAT yet . 
Well , what does he know about ? Only , she said , about me . 
What you mean by that , Alice ? he asked , helplessly . 
Never mind , she said . 
It's nothing beside the real trouble we're in I'll tell you some time . 
You eat your eggs and toast you can't keep going on just coffee . 
I can't eat any eggs and toast , he objected , rising . 
Then wait till I can bring you something else . 
No , he said , irritably . 
I got to be at WORK ! And though she followed him to the front door , entreating , he could not be stayed or hindered . 
He went through the quiet morning streets at a rickety , rapid gait , swinging his old straw hat in his hands , and whispering angrily to himself as he went . 
Oh , good Satan ! Wha'ssa matter that ole glue man ? Who ? Him ? the neighbour inquired . 
What he do now ? Talkin' to his ole se'f ! the first explained , joyously . 
It had selected the Adams family for its scaldings no question . 
The glue works foreman , standing in the doorway of the brick shed , observed his employer's eccentric approach , and doubtfully stroked a whiskered chin . 
Well , they ain't no putticular use gettin' so upset over it , he said , as Adams came up . 
When a thing happens , why , it happens , and that's all there is to it . 
When a thing's so , why , it's so . 
All you can do about it is think if there's anything you CAN do and that's what you better be doin' with this case . 
Adams halted , and seemed to gape at him . 
What case ? he said , with difficulty . 
Was it in the morning papers , too ? No , it ain't in no morning papers . 
My land ! It don't need to be in no papers look at the SIZE of it ! The size of what ? Why , great God ! the foreman exclaimed . 
He ain't even seen it . 
The letters were large enough to be read two blocks away . 
AFTER THE FIFTEENTH OF NEXT MONTH THIS BUILDING WILL BE OCCUPIED BY THE J. A. LAMB LIQUID GLUE CO . 
A gray touring car had just come to rest before the principal entrance of the building , and J. A. Lamb himself descended from it . 
He glanced over toward the humble rival of his projected great industry , saw his old clerk , and immediately walked across the street and the lot to speak to him . 
The foreman , however , seemed to feel that something ought to be said . 
Our glue works , hell ! he remarked . 
I guess we won't HAVE no glue works over here not very long , if we got to compete with the sized thing you got over there ! Lamb chuckled . 
I kind of had some such notion , he said . 
Just step into the office , please , he said . 
So these are your offices , are they ? he asked . 
You expect to do quite a business here , I guess , don't you , Virgil ? Adams turned upon him a stricken and tortured face . 
Have you seen Charley Lohr since last night , Mr. Lamb ? No I haven't seen Charley . 
I mean what my boy owes you . 
That's what I told Charley to tell you . 
I told him to tell you I'd pay you every last Well , well ! the old gentleman interrupted , testily . 
I don't know anything about that . 
I'm expecting to pay you , Adams went on , swallowing again , painfully . 
I was expecting to do it out of a loan I thought I could get on my glue works . 
The old gentleman lifted his frosted eyebrows . 
Oh , out o' the GLUE works ? You expected to raise money on the glue works , did you ? At that , Adams's agitation increased prodigiously . 
How'd you THINK I expected to pay you ? he said . 
Did you think I expected to get money on my own old bones ? He slapped himself harshly upon the chest and legs . 
I just want to tell you , whatever I did feel , I don't feel MEAN any more not to day , I don't . 
No , you don't , Adams echoed , hoarsely . 
What's more , you knew my house was mortgaged , and my I did not , Lamb interrupted , angrily . 
What do I care about your house ? What's the use your talking like that ? Adams cried . 
That's where you worked till you got ME ! What ! Lamb shouted . 
You accuse me of 'Accuse you ? What am I telling you ? Do you think I got no EYES ? And Adams hammered the table again . 
Why , you knew the boy was weak I did not ! Listen you kept him there after you got mad at my leaving the way I did . 
I didn't know there was anything against the boy till last night . 
You're CRAZY , I say ! Adams looked it . 
Maybe I AM crazy ! he cried , his voice breaking and quavering . 
But listen to me just this one last time ! The cracking voice broke into falsetto , and the gesticulating hands fluttered uncontrollably . 
Just you listen ! he panted . 
I tell you , you're crazy ! Lamb said again . 
I never in the world But he checked himself , staring in sudden perplexity at his accuser . 
Look here ! he said . 
What's the matter of you ? Have you got another of those ? He put his hand upon Adams's shoulder , which jerked feebly under the touch . 
The old man went to the door and called to the foreman . 
Run and tell my chauffeur to bring my car over here . 
Tell him to drive right up over the sidewalk and across the lot . 
Tell him to hurry ! So , it happened , the great J. A. Lamb a second time brought his former clerk home , stricken and almost inanimate . 
Well , how is he now ? he asked , finally . 
The doctor was here again a little while ago he thinks papa's coming through it . 
He's pretty sure he will . 
Something like the way it was last spring ? Yes . 
Not a bit of sense to it ! Lamb said , gruffly . 
When he was getting well the other time the doctor told me it wasn't a regular stroke , so to speak this 'cerebral effusion' thing . 
Said there wasn't any particular reason for your father to expect he'd ever have another attack , if he'd take a little care of himself . 
Said he could consider himself well as anybody else long as he did that . 
But he didn't do it ! Lamb nodded , sighed aloud , and crossed the room to a chair . 
I guess not , he said , as he sat down . 
Bustin' his health up over his glue works , I expect . 
I guess so I guess so . 
Then he looked up at her with a glimmer of anxiety in his eyes . 
Has he came to yet ? Yes . 
His mind's clear he spoke to mama and me and to Miss Perry . 
We were lucky enough to get her back , but papa didn't seem to think it was lucky . 
When he recognized her he said , 'Oh , my goodness , 'tisn't YOU , is it ! Well , that's a good sign , if he's getting a little cross . 
He yes , he did , she said . 
Naturally , he's troubled about about She stopped . 
About your brother , maybe ? Yes , about making up the Here , now , Lamb said , uncomfortably , as she stopped again . 
Listen , young lady let's don't talk about that just yet . 
I want to ask you you understand all about this glue business , I expect , don't you ? I'm not sure . 
I only know Let me tell you , he interrupted , impatiently . 
I'll tell you all about it in two words . 
The process belonged to me , and your father up and walked off with it there's no getting around THAT much , anyhow . 
Isn't there ? Alice stared at him . 
I think you're mistaken , Mr. Lamb . 
Didn't papa improve it so that it virtually belonged to him ? There was a spark in the old blue eyes at this . 
Well , I expect maybe that was the way of it , he said . 
Anyhow , it's right for you to stand up for your father and if you think he had a right to it But he did ! she cried . 
I expect so , the old man returned , pacifically . 
I expect so , probably . 
Anyhow , it's a question that's neither here nor there , right now . 
What I was thinking of saying well , did your father happen to let out that he and I had words this morning ? No. Well , we did . 
He sighed and shook his head . 
Your father well , he used some pretty hard expressions toward me , young lady . 
They weren't SO , I'm glad to say , but he used 'em to me , and the worst of it was he believed 'em . 
Well , I been thinking it over , and I thought I'd just have a kind of little talk with you to set matters straight , so to speak . 
For instance , he said , it's like this . 
He frowned at her , and asked , Well , what do you think about it ? I don't know , she said . 
I don't believe I think anything at all about anything to day . 
Well , well , he returned I expect not I expect not . 
You kind of look to me as if you ought to be in bed yourself , young lady . 
I will , Alice promised , smiling faintly . 
I never even hardly noticed your brother was still working for me , he explained , earnestly . 
I never thought anything about it . 
Well , as it happens , it looks now as if he stayed because he HAD to he couldn't quit because he'd 'a' been found out if he did . 
Well , he'd been covering up his shortage for a considerable time and do you know what your father practically charged me with about that ? No , Mr. Lamb . 
In his resentment , the old gentleman's ruddy face became ruddier and his husky voice huskier . 
I don't think you would . 
Nor HE wouldn't think so if he was himself he's known me too long . 
But he must been sort of brooding over this whole business I mean before Walter's trouble he must been taking it to heart pretty hard for some time back . 
Well , he practically stood up there and accused me to my face of fixing things so't he couldn't ever raise the money to settle for Walter and ask us not to prosecute . 
That's the state of mind your father's brooding got him into , young lady charging me with a trick like that ! I'm sorry , she said . 
I know you'd never The old man slapped his sturdy knee , angrily . 
Why , that dang fool of a Virgil Adams ! he exclaimed . 
In the first place , we aren't going to push this case against your brother . 
Of course your brother'll have to keep out o' this state that's all . 
But you said she faltered . 
What'd I say ? You said , 'where restitution's made by the family . 
That's what seemed to trouble papa so terribly , because because restitution couldn't Why , yes , it could . 
That's what I'm here to talk to you about . 
I don't see I'm going to TELL you , ain't I ? he said , gruffly . 
Just hold your horses a minute , please . 
He coughed , rose from his chair , walked up and down the room , then halted before her . 
It's like this , he said . 
It was something about all this glue controversy not meaning anything to me in particular , and meaning a whole heap to him and his family . 
Well , he was wrong about that two ways . 
The first one was , it did mean a good deal to me to have him go back on me after so many years . 
I don't need to say any more about it , except just to tell you it meant quite a little more to me than you'd think , maybe . 
I suppose it isn't , Mr. Lamb . 
It's not the right way to look at anything . 
I want you to tell him something from me , and I want you to go and tell him right off , if he's able and willing to listen . 
Tell him I haven't got a bit of feeling against him not any more and tell him I came here to ask him not to have any against me . 
Why , I forgot what we were just talking about ! Your father wants to settle for Walter's deficit . 
Tell him we'll be glad to accept it but of course we don't expect him to clean the matter up until he's able to talk business again . 
Alice stared at him blankly enough for him to perceive that further explanations were necessary . 
It's like this , he said . 
He shook her hand hastily . 
Well , let's just keep it kind of quiet , he said , at the door . 
He'll be better , Mr. Lamb . 
What makes you look so cross , dearie ? the mother asked . 
Couldn't you find anything nicer to wear than that plain old dark dress ? I don't believe I'm cross , the girl said , absently . 
I believe I'm just thinking . 
Isn't it about time ? Time for what ? Time for thinking for me , I mean ? Disregarding this , Mrs. Adams looked her over thoughtfully . 
I can't see why you don't wear more colour , she said . 
At your age it's becoming and proper , too . 
Anyhow , when you're going on the street , I think you ought to look just as gay and lively as you can manage . 
You want to show 'em you've got some spunk ! How do you mean , mama ? I mean about Walter's running away and the mess your father made of his business . 
It would help to show 'em you're holding up your head just the same . 
Show whom ! All these other girls that Not I ! Alice laughed shortly , shaking her head . 
I've quit dressing at them , and if they saw me they wouldn't think what you want 'em to . 
It's funny but we don't often make people think what we want 'em to , mama . 
You do thus and so and you tell yourself , 'Now , seeing me do thus and so , people will naturally think this and that' but they don't . 
They think something else usually just what you DON'T want 'em to . 
I suppose about the only good in pretending is the fun we get out of fooling ourselves that we fool somebody . 
Well , but it wouldn't be pretending . 
You ought to let people see you're still holding your head up because you ARE . 
Alice bit her lip , then smiled faintly as she said Anyhow , I'm not thinking about my head in that way not this morning , I'm not . 
Mrs. Adams dropped the subject casually . 
Are you going down town ? she inquired . 
What for ? Just something I want to see about . 
I'll tell you when I come back . 
Anything you want me to do ? No I guess not to day . 
I thought you might look for a rug , but I'd rather go with you to select it . 
We'll have to get a new rug for your father's room , I expect . 
I'm glad you think so , mama . 
I don't suppose he's ever even noticed it , but that old rug of his well , really ! I didn't mean for him , her mother explained , thoughtfully . 
No he don't mind it , and he'd likely make a fuss if we changed it on his account . 
No what I meant we'll have to put your father in Walter's room . 
He won't mind , I don't expect not much . 
No , I suppose not , Alice agreed , rather sadly . 
I heard the bell awhile ago . 
Was it somebody about that ? Yes just before I came upstairs . 
Mrs. Lohr gave him a note to me , and he was really a very pleasant looking young man . 
A VERY pleasant looking young man , Mrs. Adams repeated with increased animation and a thoughtful glance at her daughter . 
He's a Mr. Will Dickson he has a first rate position with the gas works , Mrs. Lohr says , and he's fully able to afford a nice room . 
I thought maybe I could make one more place at table , too , so that with the other people from outside we'd be serving eleven altogether . 
You see if I have to pay this cook twelve dollars a week it can't be helped , I guess well , one more would certainly help toward a profit . 
Of course it's a terribly worrying thing to see how we WILL come out . 
Don't you suppose we could squeeze in one more ? I suppose it COULD be managed yes . 
I'm sure it'll be pleasant having that young married couple in the house and especially this Mr. Will Dickson . 
He seemed very much of a gentleman , and anxious to get settled in good surroundings . 
She paused , and then , with an effort to seem casual , which veiled nothing from her daughter It's QUITE curious , she said again . 
But it's rather attractive and different , don't you think ? Poor mama ! Alice laughed compassionately . 
Poor mama ! He is , though , Mrs. Adams maintained . 
He's very much of a gentleman , unless I'm no judge of appearances and it'll really be nice to have him in the house . 
No doubt , Alice said , as she opened her door to depart . 
I don't suppose we'll mind having any of 'em as much as we thought we would . 
But her mother detained her , catching her by the arm . 
Alice , you do hate it , don't you ! No , the girl said , quickly . 
There wasn't anything else to do . 
Mrs. Adams became emotional at once her face cried tragedy , and her voice misfortune . 
If he'd just had the gumption and a little manly COURAGE Hush ! Alice whispered , for her mother's voice grew louder . 
Hush ! He'll hear you , mama . 
Could he hear me too often ? the embittered lady asked . 
You mustn't ! He WILL hear you ! But from the other side of Adams's closed door his voice came querulously . 
The old story , is it ? he said , as Alice came in . 
The same , same old story ! Well , well ! Has she gone ? Yes , papa . 
Got your hat on , he said . 
Where you going ? I'm going down town on an errand of my own . 
Is there anything you want , papa ? Yes , there is . 
I wish you'd sit down a while and talk to me unless your errand No , she said , taking a chair near him . 
I was just going down to see about some arrangements I was making for myself . 
What arrangements for yourself , dearie ? I'll tell you afterwards after I find out something about 'em myself . 
All right , he said , indulgently . 
Keep your secrets keep your secrets . 
He paused , drew musingly upon his pipe , and shook his head . 
Funny the way your mother looks at things ! For the matter o' that , everything's pretty funny , I expect , if you stop to think about it . 
What did you think about it , papa ! Well , I've seen it happen in other people's lives , time and time again and now it's happened in ours . 
You keep on going maybe you can't go much , but you do go a little . 
See what I mean ? Yes . 
Yes , I'm afraid you do , he said . 
Too bad ! You oughtn't to understand it at your age . 
Oh , no ! she protested . 
But he persisted whimsically in this view of divine error Yes , it does look a good deal that way . 
But of course we can't tell we're never certain about anything not about anything at all . 
Sometimes I look at it another way , though . 
But , my , my ! We don't learn easy ! He chuckled mournfully . 
'Brood ? No ! he returned . 
I just kind o' mull it over . 
Well , but maybe No , she said . 
I told him good bye that night , papa . 
It was before he knew about Walter I told you . 
Well , well , Adams said . 
Young people are entitled to their own privacy I don't want to pry . 
He emptied his pipe into a chipped saucer on the table beside him , laid the pipe aside , and reverted to a former topic . 
Speaking of dying Well , but we weren't ! Alice protested . 
Yes , about not knowing how to live till you're through living and THEN maybe not ! he said , chuckling at his own determined pessimism . 
Well , anyhow , it reminds me I want to get on my feet again as soon as I can I got to look around and find something to go into . 
Alice shook her head gently . 
But , papa , he told you Never mind throwing that dang doctor up at me ! Adams interrupted , peevishly . 
He said I'd be good for SOME kind of light job if I could find just the right thing . 
'Where there wouldn't be either any physical or mental strain , he said . 
Well , I got to find something like that . 
Anyway , I'll feel better if I can just get out LOOKING for it . 
But , papa , I'm afraid you won't find it , and you'll be disappointed . 
Well , I want to hunt around and SEE , anyhow . 
You must just be contented , papa . 
Everything's going to be all right , and you mustn't get to worrying about doing anything . 
We own this house it's all clear and you've taken care of mama and me all our lives now it's our turn . 
No , sir ! he said , querulously . 
I don't like the idea of being the landlady's husband around a boarding house it goes against my gizzard . 
Oh , it might be , he sighed . 
They're just part of going on . 
It did happen , and nothing's finished I'm going on , just the same only She stopped and blushed . 
Only what ? he asked . 
Well She blushed more deeply , then jumped up , and , standing before him , caught both his hands in hers . 
At a corner , not far from that tobacconist's shop she had just left when he overtook her and walked with her for the first time , she met him to day . 
He turned the corner , coming toward her , and they were face to face whereupon that engaging face of Russell's was instantly reddened , but Alice's remained serene . 
She stopped short , though and so did he then she smiled brightly as she put out her hand . 
Why , Mr. Russell ! I'm so I'm so glad to have this this chance , he stammered . 
I've wanted to tell you it's just that going into a new undertaking this business life one doesn't get to do a great many things he'd like to . 
I hope you'll let me call again some time , if I can . 
Yes , do ! she said , cordially , and then , with a quick nod , went briskly on . 
She breathed more rapidly , but knew that he could not have detected it , and she took some pride in herself for the way she had met this little crisis . 
But to have met it with such easy courage meant to her something more reassuring than a momentary pride in the serenity she had shown . 
The story ended with the heroine's taking the veil after a death blow to love and the final scene again became vivid to Alice , for a moment . 
She had something important to think of . 
Half way up the shadows were heaviest , but after that the place began to seem brighter . 
There was an open window overhead somewhere , she found and the steps at the top were gay with sunshine . 
