The Early Short Fiction of Edith Wharton A Ten Volume Collection Volume One Contents of Volume One Stories KERFOL . 
December THE HOUSE OF THE DEAD HAND . 
August Verse THE PARTING DAY . 
December Bibliography EDITH WHARTON BIBLIOGRAPHY SHORT STORIES AND POEMS . 
Judy Boss KERFOL as first published in Scribner's Magazine , March I You ought to buy it , said my host it's just the place for a solitary minded devil like you . 
And it would be rather worth while to own the most romantic house in Brittany . 
The present people are dead broke , and it's going for a song you ought to buy it . 
that I took his hint one autumn afternoon and went to Kerfol . 
Then straight ahead till you see an avenue . 
If you meet any peasants , don't ask your way . 
They don't understand French , and they would pretend they did and mix you up . 
I'll be back for you here by sunset and don't forget the tombs in the chapel . 
I followed Lanrivain's directions with the hesitation occasioned by the usual difficulty of remembering whether he had said the first turn to the right and second to the left , or the contrary . 
It was so unlike any other avenue I have ever seen that I instantly knew it must be THE avenue . 
The grey trunked trees sprang up straight to a great height and then interwove their pale grey branches in a long tunnel through which the autumn light fell faintly . 
I know most trees by name , but I haven't to this day been able to decide what those trees were . 
If ever I saw an avenue that unmistakeably led to something , it was the avenue at Kerfol . 
My heart beat a little as I began to walk down it . 
Presently the trees ended and I came to a fortified gate in a long wall . 
Between me and the wall was an open space of grass , with other grey avenues radiating from it . 
Behind the wall were tall slate roofs mossed with silver , a chapel belfry , the top of a keep . 
A moat filled with wild shrubs and brambles surrounded the place the drawbridge had been replaced by a stone arch , and the portcullis by an iron gate . 
I stood for a long time on the hither side of the moat , gazing about me , and letting the influence of the place sink in . 
I said to myself If I wait long enough , the guardian will turn up and show me the tombs and I rather hoped he wouldn't turn up too soon . 
I sat down on a stone and lit a cigarette . 
It may have been the depth of the silence that made me so conscious of my gesture . 
The squeak of my match sounded as loud as the scraping of a brake , and I almost fancied I heard it fall when I tossed it onto the grass . 
But there was more than that a sense of irrelevance , of littleness , of childish bravado , in sitting there puffing my cigarette smoke into the face of such a past . 
What kind of history I was not prepared to guess perhaps only the sheer weight of many associated lives and deaths which gives a kind of majesty to all old houses . 
But the aspect of Kerfol suggested something more a perspective of stern and cruel memories stretching away , like its own grey avenues , into a blur of darkness . 
Certainly no house had ever more completely and finally broken with the present . 
As it stood there , lifting its proud roofs and gables to the sky , it might have been its own funeral monument . 
Tombs in the chapel ? The whole place is a tomb ! I reflected . 
I hoped more and more that the guardian would not come . 
The details of the place , however striking , would seem trivial compared with its collective impressiveness and I wanted only to sit there and be penetrated by the weight of its silence . 
It's the very place for you ! Lanrivain had said and I was overcome by the almost blasphemous frivolity of suggesting to any living being that Kerfol was the place for him . 
Is it possible that any one could NOT see ? I wondered . 
I did not finish the thought what I meant was undefinable . 
I stood up and wandered toward the gate . 
But to get in one will have to rout out the keeper , I thought reluctantly , and hesitated . 
Finally I crossed the bridge and tried the iron gate . 
It yielded , and I walked under the tunnel formed by the thickness of the chemin de ronde . 
At the farther end , a wooden barricade had been laid across the entrance , and beyond it I saw a court enclosed in noble architecture . 
The rest of the house was still in its robust beauty . 
One end abutted on the round tower , the other on the small traceried chapel , and in an angle of the building stood a graceful well head adorned with mossy urns . 
A few roses grew against the walls , and on an upper window sill I remember noticing a pot of fuchsias . 
My sense of the pressure of the invisible began to yield to my architectural interest . 
The building was so fine that I felt a desire to explore it for its own sake . 
I looked about the court , wondering in which corner the guardian lodged . 
Then I pushed open the barrier and went in . 
As I did so , a little dog barred my way . 
He was such a remarkably beautiful little dog that for a moment he made me forget the splendid place he was defending . 
I was not sure of his breed at the time , but have since learned that it was Chinese , and that he was of a rare variety called the Sleeve dog . 
He was very small and golden brown , with large brown eyes and a ruffled throat he looked rather like a large tawny chrysanthemum . 
I said to myself These little beasts always snap and scream , and somebody will be out in a minute . 
The little animal stood before me , forbidding , almost menacing there was anger in his large brown eyes . 
But he made no sound , he came no nearer . 
Instead , as I advanced , he gradually fell back , and I noticed that another dog , a vague rough brindled thing , had limped up . 
There'll be a hubbub now , I thought for at the same moment a third dog , a long haired white mongrel , slipped out of a doorway and joined the others . 
All three stood looking at me with grave eyes but not a sound came from them . 
As I advanced they continued to fall back on muffled paws , still watching me . 
At a given point , they'll all charge at my ankles it's one of the dodges that dogs who live together put up on one , I thought . 
I was not much alarmed , for they were neither large nor formidable . 
But they let me wander about the court as I pleased , following me at a little distance always the same distance and always keeping their eyes on me . 
Presently I looked across at the ruined facade , and saw that in one of its window frames another dog stood a large white pointer with one brown ear . 
He was an old grave dog , much more experienced than the others and he seemed to be observing me with a deeper intentness . 
I'll hear from HIM , I said to myself but he stood in the empty window frame , against the trees of the park , and continued to watch me without moving . 
I looked back at him for a time , to see if the sense that he was being watched would not rouse him . 
Half the width of the court lay between us , and we stared at each other silently across it . 
But he did not stir , and at last I turned away . 
Behind me I found the rest of the pack , with a newcomer added a small black greyhound with pale agate coloured eyes . 
He was shivering a little , and his expression was more timid than that of the others . 
I noticed that he kept a little behind them . 
And still there was not a sound . 
I stood there for fully five minutes , the circle about me waiting , as they seemed to be waiting . 
At last I went up to the little golden brown dog and stooped to pat him . 
As I did so , I heard myself laugh . 
The little dog did not start , or growl , or take his eyes from me he simply slipped back about a yard , and then paused and continued to look at me . 
Oh , hang it ! I exclaimed aloud , and walked across the court toward the well . 
As I advanced , the dogs separated and slid away into different corners of the court . 
I examined the urns on the well , tried a locked door or two , and up and down the dumb facade then I faced about toward the chapel . 
When I turned I perceived that all the dogs had disappeared except the old pointer , who still watched me from the empty window frame . 
It was rather a relief to be rid of that cloud of witnesses and I began to look about me for a way to the back of the house . 
Perhaps there'll be somebody in the garden , I thought . 
I found a way across the moat , scrambled over a wall smothered in brambles , and got into the garden . 
A few lean hydrangeas and geraniums pined in the flower beds , and the ancient house looked down on them indifferently . 
Its garden side was plainer and severer than the other the long granite front , with its few windows and steep roof , looked like a fortress prison . 
I walked around the farther wing , went up some disjointed steps , and entered the deep twilight of a narrow and incredibly old box walk . 
The walk was just wide enough for one person to slip through , and its branches met overhead . 
It was like the ghost of a box walk , its lustrous green all turning to the shadowy greyness of the avenues . 
I walked along it to the gate tower , looking down into the court , which was just below me . 
Not a human being was in sight and neither were the dogs . 
Oh , hang it you uncomfortable beasts , you ! I exclaimed , my voice startling me with a sudden echo . 
The dogs stood motionless , watching me . 
I knew by this time that they would not try to prevent my approaching the house , and the knowledge left me free to examine them . 
I had a feeling that they must be horribly cowed to be so silent and inert . 
Yet they did not look hungry or ill treated . 
Their coats were smooth and they were not thin , except the shivering greyhound . 
And this strange passivity , this almost human lassitude , seemed to me sadder than the misery of starved and beaten animals . 
I even fancied that they knew what was passing through my mind , and pitied me for my frivolity . 
But even that feeling probably reached them through a thick fog of listlessness . 
I had an idea that their distance from me was as nothing to my remoteness from them . 
It was dark when I saw Lanrivain's motor lamps at the cross roads and I wasn't exactly sorry to see them . 
I had the sense of having escaped from the loneliest place in the whole world , and of not liking loneliness to that degree as much as I had imagined I should . 
My friend had brought his solicitor back from Quimper for the night , and seated beside a fat and affable stranger I felt no inclination to talk of Kerfol . 
But that evening , when Lanrivain and the solicitor were closeted in the study , Madame de Lanrivain began to question me in the drawing room . 
Well are you going to buy Kerfol ? she asked , tilting up her gay chin from her embroidery . 
The fact is , I couldn't get into the house , I said , as if I had simply postponed my decision , and meant to go back for another look . 
You couldn't get in ? Why , what happened ? The family are mad to sell the place , and the old guardian has orders Very likely . 
But the old guardian wasn't there . 
What a pity ! He must have gone to market . 
But his daughter ? There was nobody about . 
At least I saw no one . 
How extraordinary ! Literally nobody ? Nobody but a lot of dogs a whole pack of them who seemed to have the place to themselves . 
Madame de Lanrivain let the embroidery slip to her knee and folded her hands on it . 
For several minutes she looked at me thoughtfully . 
A pack of dogs you SAW them ? Saw them ? I saw nothing else ! How many ? She dropped her voice a little . 
I've always wondered I looked at her with surprise I had supposed the place to be familiar to her . 
Have you never been to Kerfol ? I asked . 
But never on that day . 
What day ? I'd quite forgotten and so had Herve , I'm sure . 
Inwardly I was thinking I KNEW there was something . 
Madame de Lanrivain cleared her throat and produced a reassuring smile . 
Didn't Herve tell you the story of Kerfol ? An ancestor of his was mixed up in it . 
You know every Breton house has its ghost story and some of them are rather unpleasant . 
Yes but those dogs ? I insisted . 
Well , those dogs are the ghosts of Kerfol . 
The women in Brittany drink dreadfully . 
She stooped to match a silk then she lifted her charming inquisitive Parisian face Did you REALLY see a lot of dogs ? There isn't one at Kerfol , she said . 
II Lanrivain , the next day , hunted out a shabby calf volume from the back of an upper shelf of his library . 
What does it call itself ? A History of the Assizes of the Duchy of Brittany . 
The book was written about a hundred years later than the Kerfol affair but I believe the account is transcribed pretty literally from the judicial records . 
Anyhow , it's queer reading . 
And there's a Herve de Lanrivain mixed up in it not exactly MY style , as you'll see . 
But then he's only a collateral . 
Here , take the book up to bed with you . 
The account of the trial of Anne de Cornault , wife of the lord of Kerfol , was long and closely printed . 
It was , as my friend had said , probably an almost literal transcription of what took place in the court room and the trial lasted nearly a month . 
Besides , the type of the book was detestable . 
At first I thought of translating the old record literally . 
But it is full of wearisome repetitions , and the main lines of the story are forever straying off into side issues . 
So I have tried to disentangle it , and give it here in a simpler form . 
III It was in the year that Yves de Cornault , lord of the domain of Kerfol , went to the pardon of Locronan to perform his religious duties . 
He was a rich and powerful noble , then in his sixty second year , but hale and sturdy , a great horseman and hunter and a pious man . 
So all his neighbours attested . 
He had married young and lost his wife and son soon after , and since then had lived alone at Kerfol . 
There was no talk of any familiarity with the women on his estate , though at that time the nobility were very free with their peasants . 
Some people said he had never looked at a woman since his wife's death but such things are hard to prove , and the evidence on this point was not worth much . 
It is unsigned and has no mark of identity but the initials A. B. , and the date , the year after her marriage . 
It represents a young woman with a small oval face , almost pointed , yet wide enough for a full mouth with a tender depression at the corners . 
The nose is small , and the eyebrows are set rather high , far apart , and as lightly pencilled as the eyebrows in a Chinese painting . 
The forehead is high and serious , and the hair , which one feels to be fine and thick and fair , drawn off it and lying close like a cap . 
The eyes are neither large nor small , hazel probably , with a look at once shy and steady . 
A pair of beautiful long hands are crossed below the lady's breast . 
His steward followed the next morning with coffers laden on a pair of pack mules . 
And on All Saints' Day the marriage took place . 
As to the next few years , the evidence on both sides seems to show that they passed happily for the couple . 
No one was found to say that Yves de Cornault had been unkind to his wife , and it was plain to all that he was content with his bargain . 
But that was a natural enough feeling in a wife attached to her husband and certainly it must have been a great grief to Yves de Cornault that she gave him no son . 
One of the waiting women gave , in cross examination , an interesting list of one year's gifts , which I copy . 
This was the present that pleased the lady best , the woman said . 
Later on , as it happened , it was produced at the trial , and appears to have struck the Judges and the public as a curious and valuable jewel . 
He carried a velvet box in his hand and , setting it down on the hearth , lifted the lid and let out a little golden brown dog . 
Anne de Cornault exclaimed with pleasure as the little creature bounded toward her . 
Yves de Cornault was much pleased with his purchase . 
So far , all the evidence is at one , and the narrative plain sailing but now the steering becomes difficult . 
I will try to keep as nearly as possible to Anne's own statements though toward the end , poor thing . 
Well , to go back . 
The witnesses who made this statement were not of a very reputable sort . 
One way of patching out incomplete proofs in those days was to put some sort of pressure , moral or physical , on the accused person . 
, and had been surprised there by the sound of her husband's fall . 
That was better and the prosecution rubbed its hands with satisfaction . 
She said it was because she was lonely and wanted to talk with the young man . 
Was this the only reason ? she was asked and replied Yes , by the Cross over your Lordships' heads . 
But why at midnight ? the court asked . 
Because I could see him in no other way . 
I can see the exchange of glances across the ermine collars under the Crucifix . 
Anne de Cornault , further questioned , said that her married life had been extremely lonely desolate was the word she used . 
It was true that her husband seldom spoke harshly to her but there were days when he did not speak at all . 
Then take me with you , she urged but to this he said that towns were pernicious places , and young wives better off at their own firesides . 
But what did you want to say to Herve de Lanrivain ? the court asked and she answered To ask him to take me away . 
Ah you confess that you went down to him with adulterous thoughts ? No. Then why did you want him to take you away ? Because I was afraid for my life . 
Of whom were you afraid ? Of my husband . 
Why were you afraid of your husband ? Because he had strangled my little dog . 
The first years of her marriage had been lonely but her husband had not been unkind to her . 
If she had had a child she would not have been unhappy but the days were long , and it rained too much . 
It was true that her husband , whenever he went away and left her , brought her a handsome present on his return but this did not make up for the loneliness . 
At least nothing had , till he brought her the little brown dog from the East after that she was much less unhappy . 
Her husband seemed pleased that she was so fond of the dog he gave her leave to put her jewelled bracelet around its neck , and to keep it always with her . 
One day she had fallen asleep in her room , with the dog at her feet , as his habit was . 
Her feet were bare and resting on his back . 
Suddenly she was waked by her husband he stood beside her , smiling not unkindly . 
You look like my great grandmother , Juliane de Cornault , lying in the chapel with her feet on a little dog , he said . 
Oho we'll wait and see , he said , laughing also , but with his black brows close together . 
The dog is the emblem of fidelity . 
And do you doubt my right to lie with mine at my feet ? When I'm in doubt I find out , he answered . 
I am an old man , he added , and people say I make you lead a lonely life . 
But I swear you shall have your monument if you earn it . 
And I swear to be faithful , she returned , if only for the sake of having my little dog at my feet . 
She was a woman of great piety and consequence , and much respected by Yves de Cornault , and when she proposed to Anne to go with her to Ste . 
Barbe no one could object , and even the chaplain declared himself in favour of the pilgrimage . 
So Anne set out for Ste . 
Barbe , and there for the first time she talked with Herve de Lanrivain . 
He had come once or twice to Kerfol with his father , but she had never before exchanged a dozen words with him . 
They did not talk for more than five minutes now it was under the chestnuts , as the procession was coming out of the chapel . 
He said I pity you , and she was surprised , for she had not supposed that any one thought her an object of pity . 
He added Call for me when you need me , and she smiled a little , but was glad afterward , and thought often of the meeting . 
She confessed to having seen him three times afterward not more . 
How or where she would not say one had the impression that she feared to implicate some one . 
He asked her for a remembrance , and she had none to give him but the collar about the little dog's neck . 
She was sorry afterward that she had given it , but he was so unhappy at going that she had not had the courage to refuse . 
Her husband was away at the time . 
When he returned a few days later he picked up the little dog to pet it , and noticed that its collar was missing . 
His wife told him that the dog had lost it in the undergrowth of the park , and that she and her maids had hunted a whole day for it . 
It was true , she explained to the court , that she had made the maids search for the necklet they all believed the dog had lost it in the park . 
Her husband made no comment , and that evening at supper he was in his usual mood , between good and bad you could never tell which . 
The next morning at dawn she buried the dog in the garden , and hid the necklet in her breast . 
Winter set in , and the short days passed , and the long nights , one by one and she heard nothing of Herve de Lanrivain . 
It might be that her husband had killed him or merely that he had been robbed of the necklet . 
Day after day by the hearth among the spinning maids , night after night alone on her bed , she wondered and trembled . 
Sometimes at table her husband looked across at her and smiled and then she felt sure that Lanrivain was dead . 
She dared not try to get news of him , for she was sure her husband would find out if she did she had an idea that he could find out anything . 
The winter was long and black and rainy . 
One day , in Yves de Cornault's absence , some gypsies came to Kerfol with a troop of performing dogs . 
Anne bought the smallest and cleverest , a white dog with a feathery coat and one blue and one brown eye . 
It seemed to have been ill treated by the gypsies , and clung to her plaintively when she took it from them . 
That evening her husband came back , and when she went to bed she found the dog strangled on her pillow . 
Yves de Cornault came home , and the next day she found the greyhound strangled on her pillow . 
Yves de Cornault was at Rennes , and she brought the dog in , warmed and fed it , tied up its leg and hid it in the castle till her husband's return . 
She hid him in her bed , and the next morning was about to have him taken back to the peasant woman when she heard her husband ride into the court . 
She shut the dog in a chest and went down to receive him . 
An hour or two later , when she returned to her room , the puppy lay strangled on her pillow . 
After that she dared not make a pet of any other dog and her loneliness became almost unendurable . 
Sometimes , when she crossed the court of the castle , and thought no one was looking , she stopped to pat the old pointer at the gate . 
But one day as she was caressing him her husband came out of the chapel and the next day the old dog was gone . 
This curious narrative was not told in one sitting of the court , or received without impatience and incredulous comment . 
It was plain that the Judges were surprised by its puerility , and that it did not help the accused in the eyes of the public . 
Then you would have us believe that you murdered your husband because he would not let you keep a pet dog ? I did not murder my husband . 
Who did , then ? Herve de Lanrivain ? No. Who then ? Can you tell us ? Yes , I can tell you . 
The dogs At that point she was carried out of the court in a swoon . 
It was evident that her lawyer tried to get her to abandon this line of defense . 
She said that after the disappearance of the old watch dog nothing particular happened for a month or two . 
Her husband was much as usual she did not remember any special incident . 
But one evening a pedlar woman came to the castle and was selling trinkets to the maids . 
She had no heart for trinkets , but she stood looking on while the women made their choice . 
She had no desire for the pomander , and did not know why she had bought it . 
The pedlar said that whoever wore it had the power to read the future but she did not really believe that , or care much either . 
However , she bought the thing and took it up to her room , where she sat turning it about in her hand . 
Then the strange scent attracted her and she began to wonder what kind of spice was in the box . 
She burned the paper and then sat down to think . 
It was nightfall , and her husband was at home . 
She had no way of warning Lanrivain , and there was nothing to do but to wait . 
At this point I fancy the drowsy courtroom beginning to wake up . 
Not his wife , at any rate she was an old story by now . 
As I read the case , I fancy there was no feeling for her left in him but the hatred occasioned by his supposed dishonour . 
She crept back to her room reassured , and stood in the window watching the moon set through the trees of the park . 
The sky was misty and starless , and after the moon went down the night was pitch black . 
She knew the time had come , and stole along the passage , past her husband's door where she stopped again to listen to his breathing to the top of the stairs . 
There she paused a moment , and assured herself that no one was following her then she began to go down the stairs in the darkness . 
They were so steep and winding that she had to go very slowly , for fear of stumbling . 
Her one thought was to get the door unbolted , tell Lanrivain to make his escape , and hasten back to her room . 
She had tried the bolt earlier in the evening , and managed to put a little grease on it but nevertheless , when she drew it , it gave a squeak . 
not loud , but it made her heart stop and the next minute , overhead , she heard a noise . 
What noise ? the prosecution interposed . 
My husband's voice calling out my name and cursing me . 
What did you hear after that ? A terrible scream and a fall . 
Where was Herve de Lanrivain at this time ? He was standing outside in the court . 
I just made him out in the darkness . 
I told him for God's sake to go , and then I pushed the door shut . 
What did you do next ? I stood at the foot of the stairs and listened . 
What did you hear ? I heard dogs snarling and panting . 
What dogs ? She bent her head and spoke so low that she had to be told to repeat her answer I don't know . 
How do you mean you don't know ? I don't know what dogs . 
The Judge again intervened Try to tell us exactly what happened . 
How long did you remain at the foot of the stairs ? Only a few minutes . 
And what was going on meanwhile overhead ? The dogs kept on snarling and panting . 
Once or twice he cried out . 
I think he moaned once . 
Then what happened ? Then I heard a sound like the noise of a pack when the wolf is thrown to them gulping and lapping . 
And all the while you did not go up ? Yes I went up then to drive them off . 
Well ? When I got there it was quite dark . 
I found my husband's flint and steel and struck a spark . 
I saw him lying there . 
And the dogs ? The dogs were gone . 
Gone where to ? I don't know . 
There was no way out and there were no dogs at Kerfol . 
She straightened herself to her full height , threw her arms above her head , and fell down on the stone floor with a long scream . 
There was a moment of confusion in the court room . 
Some one on the bench was heard to say This is clearly a case for the ecclesiastical authorities and the prisoner's lawyer doubtless jumped at the suggestion . 
After this , the trial loses itself in a maze of cross questioning and squabbling . 
Every witness who was called corroborated Anne de Cornault's statement that there were no dogs at Kerfol had been none for several months . 
The master of the house had taken a dislike to dogs , there was no denying it . 
But , on the other hand , at the inquest , there had been long and bitter discussion as to the nature of the dead man's wounds . 
One of the surgeons called in had spoken of marks that looked like bites . 
The suggestion of witchcraft was revived , and the opposing lawyers hurled tomes of necromancy at each other . 
At last Anne de Cornault was brought back into court at the instance of the same Judge and asked if she knew where the dogs she spoke of could have come from . 
On the body of her Redeemer she swore that she did not . 
Then the Judge put his final question If the dogs you think you heard had been known to you , do you think you would have recognized them by their barking ? Yes . 
Did you recognize them ? Yes . 
What dogs do you take them to have been ? My dead dogs , she said in a whisper . 
She was taken out of court , not to reappear there again . 
As for that of Herve de Lanrivain , I had only to apply to his collateral descendant for its subsequent details . 
The evidence against the young man being insufficient , and his family influence in the duchy considerable , he was set free , and left soon afterward for Paris . 
A year or two later he was received into their Order , and without achieving any particular distinction he followed its good and evil fortunes till his death some twenty years later . 
Lanrivain showed me a portrait of him by a pupil of Philippe de Champaigne sad eyes , an impulsive mouth and a narrow brow . 
Poor Herve de Lanrivain it was a grey ending . 
Yet as I looked at his stiff and sallow effigy , in the dark dress of the Jansenists , I almost found myself envying his fate . 
After all , in the course of his life two great things had happened to him he had loved romantically , and he must have talked with Pascal . 
She was , indeed , not quite lonely , for a few friends still toiled up now and then to her room but their visits grew rare as the years went by . 
Mrs. Manstey had never been a sociable woman , and during her husband's lifetime his companionship had been all sufficient to her . 
, looked out first upon the yard of her own dwelling , of which , however , she could get but a restricted glimpse . 
But of greater interest were the yards beyond . 
In spite of this Mrs. Manstey found much to admire in the long vista which she commanded . 
These yards Mrs. Manstey disapproved of , but the others , the green ones , she loved . 
But if nature occupied the front rank in Mrs. Manstey's view , there was much of a more personal character to interest her in the aspect of the houses and their inmates . 
The occupants of the houses did not often show themselves at the back windows , but the servants were always in sight . 
Noisy slatterns , Mrs. Manstey pronounced the greater number she knew their ways and hated them . 
But to the quiet cook in the newly painted house , whose mistress bullied her , and who secretly fed the stray cats at nightfall , Mrs. Manstey's warmest sympathies were given . 
On one occasion her feelings were racked by the neglect of a housemaid , who for two days forgot to feed the parrot committed to her care . 
But in Mrs. Manstey's more meditative moods it was the narrowing perspective of far off yards which pleased her best . 
Mrs. Manstey , in the long hours which she spent at her window , was not idle . 
She read a little , and knitted numberless stockings but the view surrounded and shaped her life as the sea does a lonely island . 
Mrs. Manstey did not care for her landlady , but she submitted to her visits with ladylike resignation . 
The magnolia is out earlier than usual this year , Mrs. Sampson , she remarked , yielding to a rare impulse , for she seldom alluded to the absorbing interest of her life . 
The what , Mrs. Manstey ? inquired the landlady , glancing about the room as if to find there the explanation of Mrs. Manstey's statement . 
The magnolia in the next yard in Mrs. Black's yard , Mrs. Manstey repeated . 
Is it , indeed ? I didn't know there was a magnolia there , said Mrs. Sampson , carelessly . 
The what ? it was Mrs. Manstey's turn to ask . 
The extension , said Mrs. Sampson , nodding her head in the direction of the ignored magnolia . 
You knew , of course , that Mrs. Black was going to build an extension to her house ? Yes , ma'am . 
I hear it is to run right back to the end of the yard . 
How she can afford to build an extension in these hard times I don't see but she always was crazy about building . 
Anyhow , the work is to begin on Monday . 
Mrs. Manstey had grown pale . 
She always spoke slowly , so the landlady did not heed the long pause which followed . 
At last Mrs. Manstey said Do you know how high the extension will be ? That's the most absurd part of it . 
The extension is to be built right up to the roof of the main building now , did you ever ? Mrs. Manstey paused again . 
Won't it be a great annoyance to you , Mrs. Sampson ? she asked . 
I should say it would . 
But there's no help for it if people have got a mind to build extensions there's no law to prevent 'em , that I'm aware of . 
Mrs. Manstey , knowing this , was silent . 
There is no help for it , Mrs. Sampson repeated , but if I AM a church member , I wouldn't be so sorry if it ruined Eliza Black . 
Well , good day , Mrs. Manstey I'm glad to find you so comfortable . 
So comfortable so comfortable ! Left to herself the old woman turned once more to the window . 
Soon the wistaria would bloom , then the horse chestnut but not for her . 
Between her eyes and them a barrier of brick and mortar would swiftly rise presently even the spire would disappear , and all her radiant world be blotted out . 
Mrs. Manstey sent away untouched the dinner tray brought to her that evening . 
She lingered in the window until the windy sunset died in bat colored dusk then , going to bed , she lay sleepless all night . 
Early the next day she was up and at the window . 
It was raining , but even through the slanting gray gauze the scene had its charm and then the rain was so good for the trees . 
She had noticed the day before that the ailanthus was growing dusty . 
Of course I might move , said Mrs. Manstey aloud , and turning from the window she looked about her room . 
She might move , of course so might she be flayed alive but she was not likely to survive either operation . 
The room , though far less important to her happiness than the view , was as much a part of her existence . 
She had lived in it seventeen years . 
We are all too old to move , she said . 
Wet and radiant the blue reappeared through torn rags of cloud the ailanthus sparkled the earth in the flower borders looked rich and warm . 
It was Thursday , and on Monday the building of the extension was to begin . 
On Sunday afternoon a card was brought to Mrs. Black , as she was engaged in gathering up the fragments of the boarders' dinner in the basement . 
The card , black edged , bore Mrs. Manstey's name . 
One of Mrs. Sampson's boarders wants to move , I suppose . 
Well , I can give her a room next year in the extension . 
Dinah , said Mrs. Black , tell the lady I'll be upstairs in a minute . 
Mrs. Black found Mrs. Manstey standing in the long parlor garnished with statuettes and antimacassars in that house she could not sit down . 
Stooping hurriedly to open the register , which let out a cloud of dust , Mrs. Black advanced on her visitor . 
I'm happy to meet you , Mrs. Manstey take a seat , please , the landlady remarked in her prosperous voice , the voice of a woman who can afford to build extensions . 
There was no help for it Mrs. Manstey sat down . 
Is there anything I can do for you , ma'am ? Mrs. Black continued . 
My house is full at present , but I am going to build an extension , and It is about the extension that I wish to speak , said Mrs. Manstey , suddenly . 
I am a poor woman , Mrs. Black , and I have never been a happy one . 
I shall have to talk about myself first to to make you understand . 
Mrs. Black , astonished but imperturbable , bowed at this parenthesis . 
I never had what I wanted , Mrs. Manstey continued . 
It was always one disappointment after another . 
For years I wanted to live in the country . 
I dreamed and dreamed about it but we never could manage it . 
There was no sunny window in our house , and so all my plants died . 
My daughter married years ago and went away besides , she never cared for the same things . 
Then my husband died and I was left alone . 
That was seventeen years ago . 
I went to live at Mrs. Sampson's , and I have been there ever since . 
I have grown a little infirm , as you see , and I don't get out often only on fine days , if I am feeling very well . 
Dear me , dear me , she remarked , pushing her chair back a little way , that is too bad , isn't it ? Why , I never thought of that . 
To be sure , the extension WILL interfere with your view , Mrs. Manstey . 
You do understand ? Mrs. Manstey gasped . 
And I'm real sorry about it , too . 
But there , don't you worry , Mrs. Manstey . 
I guess we can fix that all right . 
Mrs. Manstey rose from her seat , and Mrs. Black slipped toward the door . 
What do you mean by fixing it ? Do you mean that I can induce you to change your mind about the extension ? Oh , Mrs. Black , listen to me . 
There , there , Mrs. Manstey , don't you worry , repeated Mrs. Black , soothingly . 
I am sure we can settle it . 
You are not giving me a definite answer . 
Do you mean to say that you accept my proposition ? Why , I'll think it over , Mrs. Manstey , certainly I will . 
I wouldn't annoy you for the world But the work is to begin to morrow , I am told , Mrs. Manstey persisted . 
It shan't begin , I promise you that I'll send word to the builder this very night . 
Mrs. Manstey tightened her hold . 
You are not deceiving me , are you ? she said . 
No no , stammered Mrs. Black . 
How can you think such a thing of me , Mrs. Manstey ? Slowly Mrs. Manstey's clutch relaxed , and she passed through the open door . 
One thousand dollars , she repeated , pausing in the hall then she let herself out of the house and hobbled down the steps , supporting herself on the cast iron railing . 
My goodness , exclaimed Mrs. Black , shutting and bolting the hall door , I never knew the old woman was crazy ! And she looks so quiet and ladylike , too . 
Mrs. Manstey slept well that night , but early the next morning she was awakened by a sound of hammering . 
She got to her window with what haste she might and , looking out saw that Mrs. Black's yard was full of workmen . 
Some were carrying loads of brick from the kitchen to the yard , others beginning to demolish the old fashioned wooden balcony which adorned each story of Mrs. Black's house . 
Mrs. Manstey saw that she had been deceived . 
Toward afternoon , however , feeling that she must know the worst , she rose and dressed herself . 
It was a laborious task , for her hands were stiffer than usual , and the hooks and buttons seemed to evade her . 
When she seated herself in the window , she saw that the workmen had removed the upper part of the balcony , and that the bricks had multiplied since morning . 
And Mrs. Manstey , leaning forward , perceived that there were several barrels of paper and rubbish under the wooden balcony . 
At length the work ceased and twilight fell . 
The sunset was perfect and a roseate light , transfiguring the distant spire , lingered late in the west . 
When it grew dark Mrs. Manstey drew down the shades and proceeded , in her usual methodical manner , to light her lamp . 
She always filled and lit it with her own hands , keeping a kettle of kerosene on a zinc covered shelf in a closet . 
As the lamp light filled the room it assumed its usual peaceful aspect . 
That night she could not sleep . 
The weather had changed and a wild wind was abroad , blotting the stars with close driven clouds . 
Mrs. Manstey rose once or twice and looked out of the window but of the view nothing was discernible save a tardy light or two in the opposite windows . 
These lights at last went out , and Mrs. Manstey , who had watched for their extinction , began to dress herself . 
At length she reached the bottom of the stairs and began the more difficult descent into the utter darkness of the basement . 
Here , however , she could move more freely , as there was less danger of being overheard and without much delay she contrived to unlock the iron door leading into the yard . 
A gust of cold wind smote her as she stepped out and groped shiveringly under the clothes lines . 
That morning at three o'clock an alarm of fire brought the engines to Mrs. Black's door , and also brought Mrs. Sampson's startled boarders to their windows . 
But it was only Mrs. Manstey and she was dying , as she had lived , lonely if not alone . 
All day she said nothing but when she was asked for her daughter's address she shook her head . 
At times the nurse noticed that she seemed to be listening attentively for some sound which did not come then again she dozed . 
The next morning at daylight she was very low . 
The nurse called Mrs. Sampson and as the two bent over the old woman they saw her lips move . 
Lift me up out of bed , she whispered . 
They raised her in their arms , and with her stiff hand she pointed to the window . 
Oh , the window she wants to sit in the window . 
She used to sit there all day , Mrs. Sampson explained . 
It can do her no harm , I suppose ? Nothing matters now , said the nurse . 
They carried Mrs. Manstey to the window and placed her in her chair . 
The dawn was abroad , a jubilant spring dawn the spire had already caught a golden ray , though the magnolia and horse chestnut still slumbered in shadow . 
In Mrs. Black's yard all was quiet . 
The charred timbers of the balcony lay where they had fallen . 
It was evident that since the fire the builders had not returned to their work . 
The magnolia had unfolded a few more sculptural flowers the view was undisturbed . 
It was hard for Mrs. Manstey to breathe each moment it grew more difficult . 
She tried to make them open the window , but they would not understand . 
Mrs. Manstey's head fell back and smiling she died . 
That day the building of the extension was resumed . 
In exactly three minutes Mr. Peter Ascham , of the eminent legal firm of Ascham and Pettilow , would have his punctual hand on the door bell of the flat . 
It was a comfort to reflect that Ascham was so punctual the suspense was beginning to make his host nervous . 
And the sound of the door bell would be the beginning of the end after that there'd be no going back , by God no going back ! Granice resumed his pacing . 
As he summed himself up thus for the third or fourth time the door opened and he turned with a thrill of relief to greet his guest . 
But it was only the man servant who entered , advancing silently over the mossy surface of the old Turkey rug . 
Mr. Ascham telephones , sir , to say he's unexpectedly detained and can't be here till eight thirty . 
Granice made a curt gesture of annoyance . 
It was becoming harder and harder for him to control these reflexes . 
He turned on his heel , tossing to the servant over his shoulder Very good . 
Down his spine he felt the man's injured stare . 
Mr. Granice had always been so mild spoken to his people no doubt the odd change in his manner had already been noticed and discussed below stairs . 
And very likely they suspected the cause . 
Another half hour alone with it ! He wondered irritably what could have detained his guest . 
Since he had come into his little property , ten years earlier , Granice had been perpetually tinkering with his will . 
Suddenly another thought pulled him up , sending a flush to his sallow temples . 
He remembered a word he had tossed to the lawyer some six weeks earlier , at the Century Club . 
Yes my play's as good as taken . 
I shall be calling on you soon to go over the contract . 
Those theatrical chaps are so slippery I won't trust anybody but you to tie the knot for me ! That , of course , was what Ascham would think he was wanted for . 
Granice , at the idea , broke into an audible laugh a queer stage laugh , like the cackle of a baffled villain in a melodrama . 
The absurdity , the unnaturalness of the sound abashed him , and he compressed his lips angrily . 
Would he take to soliloquy next ? He lowered his arms and pulled open the upper drawer of the writing table . 
In the right hand corner lay a thick manuscript , bound in paper folders , and tied with a string beneath which a letter had been slipped . 
Next to the manuscript was a small revolver . 
Granice stared a moment at these oddly associated objects then he took the letter from under the string and slowly began to open it . 
He had known he should do so from the moment his hand touched the drawer . 
Whenever his eye fell on that letter some relentless force compelled him to re read it . 
It was dated about four weeks back , under the letter head of The Diversity Theatre . 
GRANICE I have given the matter my best consideration for the last month , and it's no use the play won't do . 
I have talked it over with Miss Melrose and you know there isn't a gamer artist on our stage and I regret to tell you she feels just as I do about it . 
It isn't the poetry that scares her or me either . 
BUT WE DON'T BELIEVE THEY COULD BE MADE TO WANT THIS . 
The fact is , there isn't enough drama in your play to the allowance of poetry the thing drags all through . 
You've got a big idea , but it's not out of swaddling clothes . 
If this was your first play I'd say TRY AGAIN . 
But it has been just the same with all the others you've shown me . 
And you remember the result of 'The Lee Shore , where you carried all the expenses of production yourself , and we couldn't fill the theatre for a week . 
Yet 'The Lee Shore' was a modern problem play much easier to swing than blank verse . 
It isn't as if you hadn't tried all kinds Granice folded the letter and put it carefully back into the envelope . 
That was the way they dismissed ten years of passionate unremitting work ! YOU REMEMBER THE RESULT OF 'THE LEE SHORE . 
Yes , he had offered them everything and always with the same result . 
Ten years of it ten years of dogged work and unrelieved failure . 
Ten minutes past eight only ten minutes had been consumed in that stormy rush through his whole past ! And he must wait another twenty minutes for Ascham . 
It was one of the worst symptoms of his case that , in proportion as he had grown to shrink from human company , he dreaded more and more to be alone . 
It was a small slim ivory toy just the instrument for a tired sufferer to give himself a hypodermic with . 
Granice raised it slowly in one hand , while with the other he felt under the thin hair at the back of his head , between the ear and the nape . 
He knew just where to place the muzzle he had once got a young surgeon to show him . 
And as he found the spot , and lifted the revolver to it , the inevitable phenomenon occurred . 
He laid away the revolver with an oath and , pulling out a cologne scented handkerchief , passed it tremulously over his brow and temples . 
It was no use he knew he could never do it in that way . 
His attempts at self destruction were as futile as his snatches at fame ! He couldn't make himself a real life , and he couldn't get rid of the life he had . 
And that was why he had sent for Ascham to help him . 
The lawyer , over the Camembert and Burgundy , began to excuse himself for his delay . 
He was beginning to feel the usual reaction that food and company produced . 
It was not any recovered pleasure in life that he felt , but only a deeper withdrawal into himself . 
It was easier to go on automatically with the social gestures than to uncover to any human eye the abyss within him . 
My dear fellow , it's sacrilege to keep a dinner waiting especially the production of an artist like yours . 
Mr. Ascham sipped his Burgundy luxuriously . 
But the fact is , Mrs. Ashgrove sent for me . 
Granice raised his head with a quick movement of surprise . 
For a moment he was shaken out of his self absorption . 
I thought you'd be interested I know your passion for causes celebres . 
And this promises to be one . 
Of course it's out of our line entirely we never touch criminal cases . 
But she wanted to consult me as a friend . 
Ashgrove was a distant connection of my wife's . 
And , by Jove , it IS a queer case ! The servant re entered , and Ascham snapped his lips shut . 
Would the gentlemen have their coffee in the dining room ? No serve it in the library , said Granice , rising . 
He led the way back to the curtained confidential room . 
He was really curious to hear what Ascham had to tell him . 
While the coffee and cigars were being served he fidgeted about the library , glancing at his letters the usual meaningless notes and bills and picking up the evening paper . 
As he unfolded it a headline caught his eye . 
ROSE MELROSE WANTS TO PLAY POETRY . 
THINKS SHE HAS FOUND HER POET . 
It was true , then she WAS game it was not the manner but the matter she mistrusted ! Granice turned to the servant , who seemed to be purposely lingering . 
I shan't need you this evening , Flint . 
He fancied the man's acquiescence implied surprise . 
What was going on , Flint seemed to wonder , that Mr. Granice should want him out of the way ? Probably he would find a pretext for coming back to see . 
Granice suddenly felt himself enveloped in a network of espionage . 
As the door closed he threw himself into an armchair and leaned forward to take a light from Ascham's cigar . 
Tell me about Mrs. Ashgrove , he said , seeming to himself to speak stiffly , as if his lips were cracked . 
Mrs. Ashgrove ? Well , there's not much to TELL . 
And you couldn't if there were ? Granice smiled . 
As a matter of fact , she wanted my advice about her choice of counsel . 
There was nothing especially confidential in our talk . 
And what's your impression , now you've seen her ? My impression is , very distinctly , THAT NOTHING WILL EVER BE KNOWN . 
Ah ? Granice murmured , puffing at his cigar . 
I'm more and more convinced that whoever poisoned Ashgrove knew his business , and will consequently never be found out . 
That's a capital cigar you've given me . 
You like it ? I get them over from Cuba . 
Granice examined his own reflectively . 
Then you believe in the theory that the clever criminals never ARE caught ? Of course I do . 
Look about you look back for the last dozen years none of the big murder problems are ever solved . 
The lawyer ruminated behind his blue cloud . 
How sick he was of looking at that room ! It was as dull as the face of a wife one has wearied of . 
He cleared his throat slowly then he turned his head to the lawyer and said I could explain the Lenman murder myself . 
Ascham's eye kindled he shared Granice's interest in criminal cases . 
By Jove ! You've had a theory all this time ? It's odd you never mentioned it . 
Go ahead and tell me . 
There are certain features in the Lenman case not unlike this Ashgrove affair , and your idea may be a help . 
Granice paused and his eye reverted instinctively to the table drawer in which the revolver and the manuscript lay side by side . 
I KNOW who murdered Joseph Lenman . 
Ascham settled himself comfortably in his chair , prepared for enjoyment . 
You KNOW ? Well , who did ? he laughed . 
I did , said Granice , rising . 
He stood before Ascham , and the lawyer lay back staring up at him . 
Then he broke into another laugh . 
Granice waited till the lawyer had shaken the last peal of laughter from his throat then he repeated doggedly I murdered him . 
The two men looked at each other for a long moment , and this time Ascham did not laugh . 
Granice ! I murdered him to get his money , as you say . 
There was another pause , and Granice , with a vague underlying sense of amusement , saw his guest's look change from pleasantry to apprehension . 
What's the joke , my dear fellow ? I fail to see . 
He had spoken painfully at first , as if there were a knot in his throat but each time he repeated the words he found they were easier to say . 
Ascham laid down his extinct cigar . 
What's the matter ? Aren't you well ? What on earth are you driving at ? I'm perfectly well . 
But I murdered my cousin , Joseph Lenman , and I want it known that I murdered him . 
YOU WANT IT KNOWN ? Yes . 
That's why I sent for you . 
I'm sick of living , and when I try to kill myself I funk it . 
He spoke quite naturally now , as if the knot in his throat had been untied . 
Good Lord good Lord , the lawyer gasped . 
II Granice told his story simply , connectedly . 
He began by a quick survey of his early years the years of drudgery and privation . 
He loathed his work , and he was always poor , always worried and in ill health . 
A few years later his mother died , but his sister , an ineffectual neurasthenic , remained on his hands . 
His own health gave out , and he had to go away for six months , and work harder than ever when he came back . 
He had no knack for business , no head for figures , no dimmest insight into the mysteries of commerce . 
He wanted to travel and write those were his inmost longings . 
And as the years dragged on , and he neared middle age without making any more money , or acquiring any firmer health , a sick despair possessed him . 
He tried writing , but he always came home from the office so tired that his brain could not work . 
Sometimes he spent an evening at the theatre or he dined out , or , more rarely , strayed off with an acquaintance or two in quest of what is known as pleasure . 
And in summer , when he and Kate went to the sea side for a month , he dozed through the days in utter weariness . 
But the stage had always been his master passion . 
He would have sold his soul for the time and freedom to write plays ! It was IN HIM he could not remember when it had not been his deepest seated instinct . 
As the years passed it became a morbid , a relentless obsession yet with every year the material conditions were more and more against it . 
He felt himself growing middle aged , and he watched the reflection of the process in his sister's wasted face . 
At eighteen she had been pretty , and as full of enthusiasm as he . 
Now she was sour , trivial , insignificant she had missed her chance of life . 
Then came the summer when we went to Wrenfield to be near old Lenman my mother's cousin , as you know . 
Some of the family always mounted guard over him generally a niece or so . 
But that year they were all scattered , and one of the nieces offered to lend us her cottage if we'd relieve her of duty for two months . 
You never knew Joseph Lenman ? Well , picture to yourself an amoeba or some primitive organism of that sort , under a Titan's microscope . 
He was large , undifferentiated , inert since I could remember him he had done nothing but take his temperature and read the Churchman . 
Oh , and cultivate melons that was his hobby . 
Not vulgar , out of door melons his were grown under glass . 
He had miles of it at Wrenfield his big kitchen garden was surrounded by blinking battalions of green houses . 
And in nearly all of them melons were grown early melons and late , French , English , domestic dwarf melons and monsters every shape , colour and variety . 
They were petted and nursed like children a staff of trained attendants waited on them . 
I'm not sure they didn't have a doctor to take their temperature at any rate the place was full of thermometers . 
It used to strike me sometimes that old Lenman was just like one of his own melons the pale fleshed English kind . 
His life , apathetic and motionless , hung in a net of gold , in an equable warm ventilated atmosphere , high above sordid earthly worries . 
The cardinal rule of his existence was not to let himself be 'worried . 
I remember his advising me to try it myself , one day when I spoke to him about Kate's bad health , and her need of a change . 
'I never let myself worry , he said complacently . 
'It's the worst thing for the liver and you look to me as if you had a liver . 
Take my advice and be cheerful . 
You'll make yourself happier and others too . 
The old skin flint only had it for life , in trust for us and the others . 
But his life was a good deal sounder than mine or Kate's and one could picture him taking extra care of it for the joke of keeping us waiting . 
I always felt that the sight of our hungry eyes was a tonic to him . 
Well , I tried to see if I couldn't reach him through his vanity . 
I flattered him , feigned a passionate interest in his melons . 
And he was taken in , and used to discourse on them by the hour . 
When he bragged to me of the expense of growing them I was reminded of a hideous old Lothario bragging of what his pleasures cost . 
And the resemblance was completed by the fact that he couldn't eat as much as a mouthful of his melons had lived for years on buttermilk and toast . 
'But , after all , it's my only hobby why shouldn't I indulge it ? he said sentimentally . 
As if I'd ever been able to indulge any of mine ! On the keep of those melons Kate and I could have lived like gods . 
It was a lovely soft September afternoon a day to lie under a Roman stone pine , with one's eyes on the sky , and let the cosmic harmonies rush through one . 
I remember thinking it queer that the fellow , whom I had often seen about the melon houses , did not bow to me , or even seem to see me . 
Then I noticed that his face , instead of looking as calm as an egg shell , was distorted and whimpering and without stopping to greet me he pointed passionately to the melon . 
Then he told me what had happened . 
The Italian had done well seemed to have a sense of responsibility . 
He had just had the Italian up and had sacked him on the spot , without wages or character had threatened to have him arrested if he was ever caught prowling about Wrenfield . 
Those Italians would murder you for a quarter . 
He meant to have the police look into it . 
And then he grew frightened at his own excitement . 
'But I must calm myself , he said . 
He took his temperature , rang for his drops , and turned to the Churchman . 
He had been reading an article on Nestorianism when the melon was brought in . 
All the while one phrase of the old man's buzzed in my brain like the fly about the melon . 
'I can guarantee to repay you , sir I've a half written play as security . 
I shall never forget his glassy stare . 
His face had grown as smooth as an egg shell again his eyes peered over his fat cheeks like sentinels over a slippery rampart . 
'A half written play a play of YOURS as security ? He looked at me almost fearfully , as if detecting the first symptoms of insanity . 
'Do you understand anything of business ? he enquired mildly . 
I laughed and answered 'No , not much . 
He leaned back with closed lids . 
'All this excitement has been too much for me , he said . 
'If you'll excuse me , I'll prepare for my nap . 
And I stumbled out of the room , blindly , like the Italian . 
Granice moved away from the mantel piece , and walked across to the tray set out with decanters and soda water . 
He poured himself a tall glass of soda water , emptied it , and glanced at Ascham's dead cigar . 
Better light another , he suggested . 
The lawyer shook his head , and Granice went on with his tale . 
He spoke more tranquilly as the narrative proceeded , as though his rage had died down once the resolve to act on it was taken . 
He applied his whole mind to the question of how the old man was to be disposed of . 
Suddenly he remembered the outcry Those Italians will murder you for a quarter ! But no definite project presented itself he simply waited for an inspiration . 
Granice and his sister moved to town a day or two after the incident of the melon . 
But the cousins , who had returned , kept them informed of the old man's condition . 
One day , about three weeks later , Granice , on getting home , found Kate excited over a report from Wrenfield . 
The Italian had been there again had somehow slipped into the house , made his way up to the library , and used threatening language . 
The house keeper found cousin Joseph gasping , the whites of his eyes showing something awful . 
The doctor was sent for , and the attack warded off and the police had ordered the Italian from the neighbourhood . 
But cousin Joseph , thereafter , languished , had nerves , and lost his taste for toast and butter milk . 
The doctor called in a colleague , and the consultation amused and excited the old man he became once more an important figure . 
The medical men reassured the family too completely ! and to the patient they recommended a more varied diet advised him to take whatever tempted him . 
And so one day , tremulously , prayerfully , he decided on a tiny bit of melon . 
It was brought up with ceremony , and consumed in the presence of the house keeper and a hovering cousin and twenty minutes later he was dead . 
It was said that he had tender relations with the kitchen maid , and the rest seemed easy to explain . 
But when they looked round to ask him for the explanation he was gone gone clean out of sight . 
He had been 'warned' to leave Wrenfield , and he had taken the warning so to heart that no one ever laid eyes on him again . 
He had dropped into a chair opposite the lawyer's , and he sat for a moment , his head thrown back , looking about the familiar room . 
Everything in it had grown grimacing and alien , and each strange insistent object seemed craning forward from its place to hear him . 
It was I who put the stuff in the melon , he said . 
And I don't want you to think I'm sorry for it . 
This isn't 'remorse , understand . 
I'm glad the old skin flint is dead I'm glad the others have their money . 
But mine's no use to me any more . 
My sister married miserably , and died . 
And I've never had what I wanted . 
And I've slaved at it steadily for ten years without reward without the most distant hope of success ! Nobody will look at my stuff . 
And now I'm fifty , and I'm beaten , and I know it . 
His chin dropped forward on his breast . 
I want to chuck the whole business , he ended . 
III It was after midnight when Ascham left . 
Granice turned back into the library . 
It had never occurred to him that Ascham would not believe his story . 
For three hours he had explained , elucidated , patiently and painfully gone over every detail but without once breaking down the iron incredulity of the lawyer's eye . 
At first Ascham had feigned to be convinced but that , as Granice now perceived , was simply to get him to expose himself , to entrap him into contradictions . 
The way you've worked this all out is a marvel . 
Granice swung about furiously that last sneer about the play inflamed him . 
I could send you one or two if you like . 
Left alone , Granice cowered down in the chair before his writing table . 
He understood that Ascham thought him off his head . 
But gradually , as he began to rehearse his story for the thousandth time , he saw again how incontrovertible it was , and felt sure that any criminal lawyer would believe him . 
That's the trouble Ascham's not a criminal lawyer . 
And then he's a friend . 
But in that case if he DID believe me he might think it a kindness to get me shut up in an asylum . 
Granice began to tremble again . 
Good heaven ! If he should bring in an expert one of those damned alienists ! Ascham and Pettilow can do anything their word always goes . 
He pressed his fists to his bursting temples and tried to think . 
For the first time he hoped that Ascham had not believed his story . 
But he did he did ! I can see it now I noticed what a queer eye he cocked at me . 
Good God , what shall I do what shall I do ? He started up and looked at the clock . 
Mechanically he stooped to pick it up , and the movement started a new train of association . 
He sat down again , and reached for the telephone book in the rack by his chair . 
Give me three o ten . 
The new idea in his mind had revived his flagging energy . 
He would act act at once . 
It was only by thus planning ahead , committing himself to some unavoidable line of conduct , that he could pull himself through the meaningless days . 
Each time he reached a fresh decision it was like coming out of a foggy weltering sea into a calm harbour with lights . 
One of the queerest phases of his long agony was the intense relief produced by these momentary lulls . 
That the office of the Investigator ? Yes ? Give me Mr. Denver , please . 
Just caught you ? Going straight home ? Can I come and see you . 
have a talk ? It's rather urgent . 
yes , might give you some first rate 'copy . 
All right ! He hung up the receiver with a laugh . 
It had been a happy thought to call up the editor of the Investigator Robert Denver was the very man he needed . 
In the hall , a sleepy elevator boy blinked at him and then dropped his head on his folded arms . 
Granice passed out into the street . 
At the corner of Fifth Avenue he hailed a crawling cab , and called out an up town address . 
The long thoroughfare stretched before him , dim and deserted , like an ancient avenue of tombs . 
But from Denver's house a friendly beam fell on the pavement and as Granice sprang from his cab the editor's electric turned the corner . 
The two men grasped hands , and Denver , feeling for his latch key , ushered Granice into the brightly lit hall . 
Disturb me ? Not a bit . 
You might have , at ten to morrow morning . 
but this is my liveliest hour . 
you know my habits of old . 
Granice had known Robert Denver for fifteen years watched his rise through all the stages of journalism to the Olympian pinnacle of the Investigator's editorial office . 
Well this is like old times a good old habit reversed . 
The editor smote his visitor genially on the shoulder . 
Reminds me of the nights when I used to rout you out . 
It was evident , even to Granice's tortured nerves , that the words had not been uttered in malice and the fact gave him a new measure of his insignificance . 
Denver did not even know that he had been a failure ! The fact hurt more than Ascham's irony . 
The editor led the way into a small cheerful room , where there were cigars and decanters . 
He pushed an arm chair toward his visitor , and dropped into another with a comfortable groan . 
Now , then help yourself . 
And let's hear all about it . 
He beamed at Granice over his pipe bowl , and the latter , lighting his cigar , said to himself Success makes men comfortable , but it makes them stupid . 
Then he turned , and began Denver , I want to tell you The clock ticked rhythmically on the mantel piece . 
The little room was gradually filled with drifting blue layers of smoke , and through them the editor's face came and went like the moon through a moving sky . 
Once the hour struck then the rhythmical ticking began again . 
The atmosphere grew denser and heavier , and beads of perspiration began to roll from Granice's forehead . 
Do you mind if I open the window ? No. It IS stuffy in here . 
Wait I'll do it myself . 
Denver pushed down the upper sash , and returned to his chair . 
Well go on , he said , filling another pipe . 
There's no use in my going on if you don't believe me . 
Who says I don't believe you ? And how can I tell till you've finished ? Granice went on , ashamed of his outburst . 
It was simple enough , as you'll see . 
From the day the old man said to me , 'Those Italians would murder you for a quarter , I dropped everything and just worked at my scheme . 
It struck me at once that I must find a way of getting to Wrenfield and back in a night and that led to the idea of a motor . 
A motor that never occurred to you ? You wonder where I got the money , I suppose . 
Well , I had a thousand or so put by , and I nosed around till I found what I wanted a second hand racer . 
I knew how to drive a car , and I tried the thing and found it was all right . 
Times were bad , and I bought it for my price , and stored it away . 
Where ? Why , in one of those no questions asked garages where they keep motors that are not for family use . 
Then I practiced running to Wrenfield and back in a night . 
I knew the way pretty well , for I'd done it often with the same lively cousin and in the small hours , too . 
The distance is over ninety miles , and on the third trial I did it under two hours . 
But my arms were so lame that I could hardly get dressed the next morning . 
Well , then came the report about the Italian's threats , and I saw I must act at once . 
I meant to break into the old man's room , shoot him , and get away again . 
It was a big risk , but I thought I could manage it . 
Then we heard that he was ill that there'd been a consultation . 
Perhaps the fates were going to do it for me ! Good Lord , if that could only be ! . 
Granice stopped and wiped his forehead the open window did not seem to have cooled the room . 
The house keeper had just telephoned her all Wrenfield was in a flutter . 
In a flash I saw my chance . 
It was a bare chance , no more . 
But I knew the ways of the house I was sure the melon would be brought in over night and put in the pantry ice box . 
If there were only one melon in the ice box I could be fairly sure it was the one I wanted . 
Melons didn't lie around loose in that house every one was known , numbered , catalogued . 
The old man was beset by the dread that the servants would eat them , and he took a hundred mean precautions to prevent it . 
Yes , I felt pretty sure of my melon . 
and poisoning was much safer than shooting . 
It was a cloudy night , too everything served me . 
I dined quietly , and sat down at my desk . 
Kate had one of her usual headaches , and went to bed early . 
As soon as she was gone I slipped out . 
I had got together a sort of disguise red beard and queer looking ulster . 
I shoved them into a bag , and went round to the garage . 
There was no one there but a half drunken machinist whom I'd never seen before . 
That served me , too . 
They were always changing machinists , and this new fellow didn't even bother to ask if the car belonged to me . 
It was a very easy going place . 
Well , I jumped in , ran up Broadway , and let the car go as soon as I was out of Harlem . 
Dark as it was , I could trust myself to strike a sharp pace . 
In the shadow of a wood I stopped a second and got into the beard and ulster . 
Then away again it was just eleven thirty when I got to Wrenfield . 
I left the car in a dark lane behind the Lenman place , and slipped through the kitchen garden . 
The melon houses winked at me through the dark I remember thinking that they knew what I wanted to know . 
By the stable a dog came out growling but he nosed me out , jumped on me , and went back . 
The house was as dark as the grave . 
I knew everybody went to bed by ten . 
But there might be a prowling servant the kitchen maid might have come down to let in her Italian . 
I had to risk that , of course . 
I crept around by the back door and hid in the shrubbery . 
It was all as silent as death . 
I crossed over to the house , pried open the pantry window and climbed in . 
I stopped to listen I was quite cool . 
Then I pulled out my bottle of stuff and my syringe , and gave each section of the melon a hypodermic . 
It was all done inside of three minutes at ten minutes to twelve I was back in the car . 
I only stopped once on the way in , to drop the beard and ulster into a pond . 
I had a big stone ready to weight them with and they went down plump , like a dead body and at two o'clock I was back at my desk . 
Granice stopped speaking and looked across the smoke fumes at his listener but Denver's face remained inscrutable . 
At length he said Why did you want to tell me this ? The question startled Granice . 
Both were successful men , and success does not understand the subtle agony of failure . 
Granice cast about for another reason . 
Why , I the thing haunts me . 
remorse , I suppose you'd call it . 
Denver struck the ashes from his empty pipe . 
Remorse ? Bosh ! he said energetically . 
You don't believe in REMORSE ? Not an atom in the man of action . 
The mere fact of your talking of remorse proves to me that you're not the man to have planned and put through such a job . 
Well I lied to you about remorse . 
Denver's lips tightened sceptically about his freshly filled pipe . 
What was your motive , then ? You must have had one . 
I'll tell you And Granice began again to rehearse the story of his failure , of his loathing for life . 
Don't say you don't believe me this time . 
that this isn't a real reason ! he stammered out piteously as he ended . 
No , I won't say that . 
I've seen too many queer things . 
There's always a reason for wanting to get out of life the wonder is that we find so many for staying in ! Granice's heart grew light . 
Then you DO believe me ? he faltered . 
Believe that you're sick of the job ? Yes . 
And that you haven't the nerve to pull the trigger ? Oh , yes that's easy enough , too . 
But all that doesn't make you a murderer though I don't say it proves you could never have been one . 
I HAVE been one , Denver I swear to you . 
Just tell me one or two things . 
You won't stump me ! Granice heard himself say with a laugh . 
Well how did you make all those trial trips without exciting your sister's curiosity ? I knew your night habits pretty well at that time , remember . 
You were very seldom out late . 
Didn't the change in your ways surprise her ? No because she was away at the time . 
She went to pay several visits in the country soon after we came back from Wrenfield , and was only in town for a night or two before before I did the job . 
And that night she went to bed early with a headache ? Yes blinding . 
She didn't know anything when she had that kind . 
And her room was at the back of the flat . 
And when you got back she didn't hear you ? You got in without her knowing it ? Yes . 
I went straight to my work took it up at the word where I'd left off WHY , DENVER , DON'T YOU REMEMBER ? Granice suddenly , passionately interjected . 
Remember ? Yes how you found me when you looked in that morning , between two and three . 
? Yes , the editor nodded . 
Granice gave a short laugh . 
I didn't know whether YOU remembered that . 
What ? My coming in that particular night or morning . 
Granice swung round in his chair . 
Why , man alive ! That's why I'm here now . 
I thought THAT would appeal to your journalistic sense if nothing else would ! Denver smiled . 
Oh , my journalistic sense is still susceptible enough and the idea's picturesque , I grant you asking the man who proved your alibi to establish your guilt . 
That's it that's it ! Granice's laugh had a ring of triumph . 
Well , but how about the other chap's testimony I mean that young doctor what was his name ? Ned Ranney . 
I passed the house two hours ago , and saw his shadow against the blind , as usual . 
And the lady with the toothache in the flat across the way she corroborated his statement , you remember . 
Well , then ? Simple enough . 
Before starting I rigged up a kind of mannikin with old coats and a cushion something to cast a shadow on the blind . 
All you fellows were used to seeing my shadow there in the small hours I counted on that , and knew you'd take any vague outline as mine . 
Simple enough , as you say . 
But the woman with the toothache saw the shadow move you remember she said she saw you sink forward , as if you'd fallen asleep . 
Yes and she was right . 
There was a long silence between the two men . 
Granice , with a throbbing heart , watched Denver refill his pipe . 
The editor , at any rate , did not sneer and flout him . 
After all , journalism gave a deeper insight than the law into the fantastic possibilities of life , prepared one better to allow for the incalculableness of human impulses . 
Well ? Granice faltered out . 
Denver stood up with a shrug . 
He stood up also , and the two men eyed each other . 
You don't believe me , then ? This yarn how can I ? There wasn't a flaw in your alibi . 
But haven't I filled it full of them now ? Denver shook his head . 
I might think so if I hadn't happened to know that you WANTED to . 
There's the hitch , don't you see ? Granice groaned . 
You mean my wanting to be found guilty ? Of course ! If somebody else had accused you , the story might have been worth looking into . 
As it is , a child could have invented it . 
It doesn't do much credit to your ingenuity . 
Granice turned sullenly toward the door . 
What was the use of arguing ? But on the threshold a sudden impulse drew him back . 
Look here , Denver I daresay you're right . 
But will you do just one thing to prove it ? Put my statement in the Investigator , just as I've made it . 
Ridicule it as much as you like . 
Only give the other fellows a chance at it men who don't know anything about me . 
Set them talking and looking about . 
I don't put my case well , because I know in advance it's discredited , and I almost end by not believing it myself . 
That's why I can't convince YOU . 
He laid a hand on Denver's arm . 
Send a stenographer , and put my statement in the paper . 
But Denver did not warm to the idea . 
My dear fellow , you seem to forget that all the evidence was pretty thoroughly sifted at the time , every possible clue followed up . 
The public would have been ready enough then to believe that you murdered old Lenman you or anybody else . 
All they wanted was a murderer the most improbable would have served . 
But your alibi was too confoundedly complete . 
And nothing you've told me has shaken it . 
Denver laid his cool hand over the other's burning fingers . 
Look here , old fellow , go home and work up a better case then come in and submit it to the Investigator . 
IV The perspiration was rolling off Granice's forehead . 
Every few minutes he had to draw out his handkerchief and wipe the moisture from his haggard face . 
For an hour and a half he had been talking steadily , putting his case to the District Attorney . 
Luckily he had a speaking acquaintance with Allonby , and had obtained , without much difficulty , a private audience on the very day after his talk with Robert Denver . 
In the interval between he had hurried home , got out of his evening clothes , and gone forth again at once into the dreary dawn . 
His fear of Ascham and the alienist made it impossible for him to remain in his rooms . 
And it seemed to him that the only way of averting that hideous peril was by establishing , in some sane impartial mind , the proof of his guilt . 
Even if he had not been so incurably sick of life , the electric chair seemed now the only alternative to the strait jacket . 
As he paused to wipe his forehead he saw the District Attorney glance at his watch . 
The gesture was significant , and Granice lifted an appealing hand . 
I don't expect you to believe me now but can't you put me under arrest , and have the thing looked into ? Allonby smiled faintly under his heavy grayish moustache . 
He had a ruddy face , full and jovial , in which his keen professional eyes seemed to keep watch over impulses not strictly professional . 
Well , I don't know that we need lock you up just yet . 
But of course I'm bound to look into your statement Granice rose with an exquisite sense of relief . 
Surely Allonby wouldn't have said that if he hadn't believed him ! That's all right . 
Then I needn't detain you . 
I can be found at any time at my apartment . 
The District Attorney smiled again , more openly . 
Granice stumbled out of the office without knowing what reply he had made . 
He waited for four days four days of concentrated horror . 
Evidently , if he had been going to look into the case , Allonby would have been heard from before now . 
And that mocking invitation to supper showed clearly enough how little the story had impressed him ! Granice was overcome by the futility of any farther attempt to inculpate himself . 
He was chained to life a prisoner of consciousness . 
Where was it he had read the phrase ? Well , he was learning what it meant . 
He had not guessed that the mind was capable of such intricacies of self realization , of penetrating so deep into its own dark windings . 
Why wish to be any one man rather than another ? The only absolute good was not to be . 
Granice read the name J. B. Hewson and underneath , in pencil , From the District Attorney's office . 
He started up with a thumping heart , and signed an assent to the servant . 
Mr. Hewson was a slight sallow nondescript man of about fifty the kind of man of whom one is sure to see a specimen in any crowd . 
Just the type of the successful detective , Granice reflected as he shook hands with his visitor . 
And it was in that character that Mr. Hewson briefly introduced himself . 
He had been sent by the District Attorney to have a quiet talk with Mr. Granice to ask him to repeat the statement he had made about the Lenman murder . 
His manner was so quiet , so reasonable and receptive , that Granice's self confidence returned . 
He was conscious , as he proceeded , of telling it better than ever before . 
Practice helped , no doubt and his listener's detached , impartial attitude helped still more . 
He could see that Hewson , at least , had not decided in advance to disbelieve him , and the sense of being trusted made him more lucid and more consecutive . 
Yes , this time his words would certainly carry conviction . 
V Despairingly , Granice gazed up and down the shabby street . 
Beside him stood a young man with bright prominent eyes , a smooth but not too smoothly shaven face , and an Irish smile . 
The young man's nimble glance followed Granice's . 
Sure of the number , are you ? he asked briskly . 
Oh , yes it was . 
Well , then , the new building has swallowed it up that's certain . 
He tilted his head back and surveyed the half finished front of a brick and limestone flat house that reared its flimsy elegance above a row of tottering tenements and stables . 
Dead sure ? he repeated . 
Yes , said Granice , discouraged . 
And even if I hadn't been , I know the garage was just opposite Leffler's over there . 
He pointed across the street to a tumble down stable with a blotched sign on which the words Livery and Boarding were still faintly discernible . 
The young man dashed across to the opposite pavement . 
Well , that's something may get a clue there . 
Leffler's same name there , anyhow . 
You remember that name ? Yes distinctly . 
Granice had felt a return of confidence since he had enlisted the interest of the Explorer's smartest reporter . 
No one else had treated Granice in that way even Allonby's detective had not taken a single note . 
And though a week had elapsed since the visit of that authorized official , nothing had been heard from the District Attorney's office Allonby had apparently dropped the matter again . 
But McCarren wasn't going to drop it not he ! He positively hung on Granice's footsteps . 
They had spent the greater part of the previous day together , and now they were off again , running down clues . 
But at Leffler's they got none , after all . 
Leffler's was no longer a stable . 
Well we may run Leffler down somewhere I've seen harder jobs done , said McCarren , cheerfully noting down the name . 
Sorry , Mr. Granice , but I'm due at the office now . 
Besides , it'd be no use till I get some fresh stuff to work on . 
Suppose I call you up tomorrow or next day ? He plunged into a trolley and left Granice gazing desolately after him . 
Two days later he reappeared at the apartment , a shade less jaunty in demeanor . 
Well , Mr. Granice , the stars in their courses are against you , as the bard says . 
Can't get a trace of Flood , or of Leffler either . 
And you say you bought the motor through Flood , and sold it through him , too ? Yes , said Granice wearily . 
Who bought it , do you know ? Granice wrinkled his brows . 
Why , Flood yes , Flood himself . 
I sold it back to him three months later . 
Flood ? The devil ! And I've ransacked the town for Flood . 
That kind of business disappears as if the earth had swallowed it . 
Granice , discouraged , kept silence . 
That brings us back to the poison , McCarren continued , his note book out . 
Just go over that again , will you ? And Granice went over it again . 
But at the last moment it occurred to him that suspicion might turn toward so obvious an opportunity , and he decided on a more tortuous course . 
Off this work shop was the cupboard of supplies , with its row of deadly bottles . 
But that had happened ten years ago and Venn , poor fellow , was long since dead of his dragging ailment . 
Even the optimistic McCarren seemed to acknowledge the hopelessness of seeking for proof in that direction . 
And there's the third door slammed in our faces . 
He shut his note book , and throwing back his head , rested his bright inquisitive eyes on Granice's furrowed face . 
Look here , Mr. Granice you see the weak spot , don't you ? The other made a despairing motion . 
I see so many ! Yes but the one that weakens all the others . 
No one so full of a cheerful animal life would believe in the craving for death as a sufficient motive and Granice racked his brain for one more convincing . 
But suddenly he saw the reporter's face soften , and melt to a naive sentimentalism . 
Mr. Granice has the memory of it always haunted you ? Granice stared a moment , and then leapt at the opening . 
That's it the memory of it . 
Dogged your steps , eh ? Wouldn't let you sleep ? The time came when you HAD to make a clean breast of it ? I had to . 
Can't you understand ? The reporter struck his fist on the table . 
It was becoming necessary to Granice to feel himself an object of pre occupation , to find himself in another mind . 
He took a kind of gray penumbral pleasure in riveting McCarren's attention on his case and to feign the grimaces of moral anguish became a passionately engrossing game . 
He had not entered a theatre for months but he sat out the meaningless performance in rigid tolerance , sustained by the sense of the reporter's observation . 
Between the acts , McCarren amused him with anecdotes about the audience he knew every one by sight , and could lift the curtain from every physiognomy . 
See that fellow over there the little dried up man in the third row , pulling his moustache ? HIS memoirs would be worth publishing , McCarren said suddenly in the last entr'acte . 
Granice , following his glance , recognized the detective from Allonby's office . 
For a moment he had the thrilling sense that he was being shadowed . 
Caesar , if HE could talk ! McCarren continued . 
Know who he is , of course ? Dr . 
John B. Stell , the biggest alienist in the country Granice , with a start , bent again between the heads in front of him . 
THAT man the fourth from the aisle ? You're mistaken . 
Well , I guess I've been in court enough to know Stell when I see him . 
He testifies in nearly all the big cases where they plead insanity . 
A cold shiver ran down Granice's spine , but he repeated obstinately That's not Dr . 
Not Stell ? Why , man , I KNOW him . 
If it isn't Stell , he won't speak to me . 
The little dried up man was moving slowly up the aisle . 
As he neared McCarren he made a slight gesture of recognition . 
How'do , Doctor Stell ? Pretty slim show , ain't it ? the reporter cheerfully flung out at him . 
And Mr. J. B. Hewson , with a nod of amicable assent , passed on . 
He knew he had not been mistaken the man who had just passed was the same man whom Allonby had sent to see him a physician disguised as a detective . 
Allonby , then , had thought him insane , like the others had regarded his confession as the maundering of a maniac . 
The discovery froze Granice with horror he seemed to see the mad house gaping for him . 
Isn't there a man a good deal like him a detective named J. B. Hewson ? But he knew in advance what McCarren's answer would be . 
Hewson ? J. B. Hewson ? Never heard of him . 
But that was J. B. Stell fast enough I guess he can be trusted to know himself , and you saw he answered to his name . 
VI Some days passed before Granice could obtain a word with the District Attorney he began to think that Allonby avoided him . 
But when they were face to face Allonby's jovial countenance showed no sign of embarrassment . 
He waved his visitor to a chair , and leaned across his desk with the encouraging smile of a consulting physician . 
Granice broke out at once That detective you sent me the other day Allonby raised a deprecating hand . 
I know it was Stell the alienist . 
Why did you do that , Allonby ? The other's face did not lose its composure . 
Because I looked up your story first and there's nothing in it . 
Nothing in it ? Granice furiously interposed . 
Have any of them been able to make out a case for you ? No. Well , what am I to do ? Granice's lips began to tremble . 
Why did you play me that trick ? About Stell ? I had to , my dear fellow it's part of my business . 
Stell IS a detective , if you come to that every doctor is . 
The trembling of Granice's lips increased , communicating itself in a long quiver to his facial muscles . 
He forced a laugh through his dry throat . 
Well and what did he detect ? In you ? Oh , he thinks it's overwork overwork and too much smoking . 
If you look in on him some day at his office he'll show you the record of hundreds of cases like yours , and advise you what treatment to follow . 
It's one of the commonest forms of hallucination . 
Have a cigar , all the same . 
Sorry , my dear fellow lot of people waiting . 
Drop in on Stell some morning , Allonby said , shaking hands . 
McCarren had to own himself beaten there was absolutely no flaw in the alibi . 
And since his duty to his journal obviously forbade his wasting time on insoluble mysteries , he ceased to frequent Granice , who dropped back into a deeper isolation . 
For a day or two after his visit to Allonby he continued to live in dread of Dr . 
The physician received him kindly , and reverted without embarrassment to the conditions of their previous meeting . 
We have to do that occasionally , Mr. Granice it's one of our methods . 
And you had given Allonby a fright . 
You think , then , it's a case of brain fag nothing more ? Nothing more . 
And I should advise you to knock off tobacco . 
Oh , I loathe all that and I'm sick of travelling . 
Then some larger interest politics , reform , philanthropy ? Something to take you out of yourself . 
I understand , said Granice wearily . 
Above all , don't lose heart . 
I see hundreds of cases like yours , the doctor added cheerfully from the threshold . 
On the doorstep Granice stood still and laughed . 
What a good figure Stell would have made in a play the great alienist who couldn't read a man's mind any better than that ! Granice saw huge comic opportunities in the type . 
But as he walked away , his fears dispelled , the sense of listlessness returned on him . 
The thought of self destruction recurred to him but again his flesh recoiled . 
He yearned for death from other hands , but he could never take it from his own . 
And , aside from his insuperable physical reluctance , another motive restrained him . 
He was possessed by the dogged desire to establish the truth of his story . 
Ascham came to see him , and begged him to travel . 
Robert Denver dropped in , and tried to joke him out of his delusion till Granice , mistrustful of their motives , began to dread the reappearance of Dr . 
Stell , and set a guard on his lips . 
But the words he kept back engendered others and still others in his brain . 
His inner self became a humming factory of arguments , and he spent long hours reciting and writing down elaborate statements of his crime , which he constantly retouched and developed . 
Then gradually his activity languished under the lack of an audience , the sense of being buried beneath deepening drifts of indifference . 
The determining impulse was lacking and he hated too promiscuously to choose his victim . 
So he was thrown back on the unavailing struggle to impose the truth of his story . 
As fast as one channel closed on him he tried to pierce another through the sliding sands of incredulity . 
But every issue seemed blocked , and the whole human race leagued together to cheat one man of the right to die . 
Thus viewed , the situation became so monstrous that he lost his last shred of self restraint in contemplating it . 
The general tendency was to take for the whole of life the slit seen between the blinders of habit and in his walk down that narrow vista Granice cut a correct enough figure . 
At first every face looked encouragement but at the crucial moment he always held back . 
So much was at stake , and it was so essential that his first choice should be decisive . 
He dreaded stupidity , timidity , intolerance . 
The imaginative eye , the furrowed brow , were what he sought . 
He must reveal himself only to a heart versed in the tortuous motions of the human will and he began to hate the dull benevolence of the average face . 
But in both cases the premonition of failure checked him on the brink of avowal . 
He passed the greater part of the day in the streets , coming home at irregular hours , dreading the silence and orderliness of his apartment , and the critical scrutiny of Flint . 
Not for a moment was he tempted to a shabby pact with existing conditions . 
He wanted to die , wanted it with the fixed unwavering desire which alone attains its end . 
And still the end eluded him ! It would not always , of course he had full faith in the dark star of his destiny . 
It was a mild March day , and he had been loitering on the west side docks , looking at faces . 
He was becoming an expert in physiognomies his eagerness no longer made rash darts and awkward recoils . 
He knew now the face he needed , as clearly as if it had come to him in a vision and not till he found it would he speak . 
As he walked eastward through the shabby reeking streets he had a premonition that he should find it that morning . 
Perhaps it was the promise of spring in the air certainly he felt calmer than for many days . 
He turned into Washington Square , struck across it obliquely , and walked up University Place . 
Its heterogeneous passers always allured him they were less hurried than in Broadway , less enclosed and classified than in Fifth Avenue . 
He walked slowly , watching for his face . 
At Union Square he felt a sudden relapse into discouragement , like a votary who has watched too long for a sign from the altar . 
Perhaps , after all , he should never find his face . 
The air was languid , and he felt tired . 
He walked between the bald grass plots and the twisted trees , making for an empty seat . 
Presently he passed a bench on which a girl sat alone , and something as definite as the twitch of a cord made him stop before her . 
He had never dreamed of telling his story to a girl , had hardly looked at the women's faces as they passed . 
His case was man's work how could a woman help him ? But this girl's face was extraordinary quiet and wide as a clear evening sky . 
Certainly this girl would understand . 
He went up to her quietly , lifting his hat , observing the forms wishing her to see at once that he was a gentleman . 
I am a stranger to you , he began , sitting down beside her , but your face is so extremely intelligent that I feel . 
I feel it is the face I've waited for . 
looked for everywhere and I want to tell you The girl's eyes widened she rose to her feet . 
She was escaping him ! In his dismay he ran a few steps after her , and caught her roughly by the arm . 
Here wait listen ! Oh , don't scream , you fool ! he shouted out . 
He felt a hand on his own arm turned and confronted a policeman . 
Instantly he understood that he was being arrested , and something hard within him was loosened and ran to tears . 
Ah , you know you KNOW I'm guilty ! He was conscious that a crowd was forming , and that the girl's frightened face had disappeared . 
But what did he care about her face ? It was the policeman who had really understood him . 
He turned and followed , the crowd at his heels . 
VII In the charming place in which he found himself there were so many sympathetic faces that he felt more than ever convinced of the certainty of making himself heard . 
Either his hearers were not sincere , or else they had less power to aid him than they boasted . 
His interminable conferences resulted in nothing , and as the benefit of the long rest made itself felt , it produced an increased mental lucidity which rendered inaction more and more unbearable . 
Mostly , these faces were strange and less intelligent than those of his companions . 
One day , however , his attention was arrested by a familiar contour , a pair of bright prominent eyes , and a chin insufficiently shaved . 
He sprang up and stood in the path of Peter McCarren . 
Why , no but you're looking quieter smoothed out , McCarren smiled . 
Yes that's what I'm here for to rest . 
And I've taken the opportunity to write out a clearer statement Granice's hand shook so that he could hardly draw the folded paper from his pocket . 
As he did so he noticed that the reporter was accompanied by a tall man with grave compassionate eyes . 
It came to Granice in a wild thrill of conviction that this was the face he had waited for . 
Perhaps your friend he IS your friend ? would glance over it or I could put the case in a few words if you have time ? Granice's voice shook like his hand . 
If this chance escaped him he felt that his last hope was gone . 
McCarren and the stranger looked at each other , and the former glanced at his watch . 
I'm sorry we can't stay and talk it over now , Mr. Granice but my friend has an engagement , and we're rather pressed Granice continued to proffer the paper . 
I'm sorry I think I could have explained . 
But you'll take this , at any rate ? The stranger looked at him gently . 
He had his hand out . 
Good bye , Granice echoed . 
He stood watching the two men move away from him through the long light hall and as he watched them a tear ran down his face . 
But as soon as they were out of sight he turned and walked hastily toward his room , beginning to hope again , already planning a new statement . 
Outside the building the two men stood still , and the journalist's companion looked up curiously at the long monotonous rows of barred windows . 
So that was Granice ? Yes that was Granice , poor devil , said McCarren . 
Strange case ! I suppose there's never been one just like it ? He's still absolutely convinced that he committed that murder ? Absolutely . 
Then he turned his bright hard gaze on his companion . 
That was the queer part of it . 
I've never spoken of it but I DID get a clue . 
By Jove ! That's interesting . 
What was it ? McCarren formed his red lips into a whistle . 
Why that it wasn't a delusion . 
He produced his effect the other turned on him with a pallid stare . 
He murdered the man all right . 
I tumbled on the truth by the merest accident , when I'd pretty nearly chucked the whole job . 
He murdered him murdered his cousin ? Sure as you live . 
Only don't split on me . 
It's about the queerest business I ever ran into . 
Here take this it makes me sick , he said abruptly , thrusting the paper at the reporter and the two men turned and walked in silence to the gates . 
The as usual was his own qualification of the act a convenient way of bridging the interval in days and other sequences that lay between this visit and the last . 
On the whole , he knew no one better fitted to deal with the unexpected than Mrs. Vervain . 
She excelled in the rare art of taking things for granted , and Thursdale felt a pardonable pride in the thought that she owed her excellence to his training . 
He owed a great deal of delicate enjoyment to the cultivation of this art . 
As a promoter of this pleasure no one he had known was comparable to Mrs. Vervain . 
He had taught a good many women not to betray their feelings , but he had never before had such fine material to work in . 
It had taken Thursdale seven years to form this fine talent but the result justified the effort . 
At the crucial moment she had been perfect her way of greeting Miss Gaynor had made him regret that he had announced his engagement by letter . 
All this , and much more , he read in the finished naturalness with which Mrs. Vervain had met Miss Gaynor . 
there were none of those damnable implications whereby a woman , in welcoming her friend's betrothed , may keep him on pins and needles while she laps the lady in complacency . 
It was perhaps the one drawback to his new situation that it might develop good things which it would be impossible to hand on to Margaret Vervain . 
It was absurd , how he missed the girl . 
And it was precisely by the girl's candor , her directness , her lack of complications , that he was taken . 
Mrs. Vervain was at home as usual . 
It was a surprise that , in this general harmony of circumstances , Mrs. Vervain should herself sound the first false note . 
You ? she exclaimed and the book she held slipped from her hand . 
It was crude , certainly unless it were a touch of the finest art . 
The difficulty of classifying it disturbed Thursdale's balance . 
Why not ? he said , restoring the book . 
Isn't it my hour ? And as she made no answer , he added gently , Unless it's some one else's ? She laid the book aside and sank back into her chair . 
Mine , merely , she said . 
I hope that doesn't mean that you're unwilling to share it ? With you ? By no means . 
You're welcome to my last crust . 
He looked at her reproachfully . 
Do you call this the last ? She smiled as he dropped into the seat across the hearth . 
It's a way of giving it more flavor ! He returned the smile . 
A visit to you doesn't need such condiments . 
She took this with just the right measure of retrospective amusement . 
Ah , but I want to put into this one a very special taste , she confessed . 
Doesn't the fact that it's the last constitute a difference ? The last my last visit to you ? Oh , metaphorically , I mean there's a break in the continuity . 
Decidedly , she was pressing too hard unlearning his arts already ! I don't recognize it , he said . 
Unless you make me he added , with a note that slightly stirred her attitude of languid attention . 
She turned to him with grave eyes . 
You recognize no difference whatever ? None except an added link in the chain . 
An added link ? In having one more thing to like you for your letting Miss Gaynor see why I had already so many . 
He flattered himself that this turn had taken the least hint of fatuity from the phrase . 
Mrs. Vervain sank into her former easy pose . 
Was it that you came for ? she asked , almost gaily . 
If it is necessary to have a reason that was one . 
To talk to me about Miss Gaynor ? To tell you how she talks about you . 
That will be very interesting especially if you have seen her since her second visit to me . 
Her second visit ? Thursdale pushed his chair back with a start and moved to another . 
She came to see you again ? This morning , yes by appointment . 
He continued to look at her blankly . 
You sent for her ? I didn't have to she wrote and asked me last night . 
But no doubt you have seen her since . 
He was trying to separate his words from his thoughts , but they still clung together inextricably . 
I saw her off just now at the station . 
And she didn't tell you that she had been here again ? There was hardly time , I suppose there were people about he floundered . 
Ah , she'll write , then . 
Of course she'll write very often , I hope . 
You know I'm absurdly in love , he cried audaciously . 
She tilted her head back , looking up at him as he leaned against the chimney piece . 
He had leaned there so often that the attitude touched a pulse which set up a throbbing in her throat . 
Oh , my poor Thursdale ! she murmured . 
Have you been back to your rooms since you left her ? Since I left her at the station ? I came straight here . 
Ah , yes you COULD there was no reason Her words passed into a silent musing . 
You said you had something to tell me ? Perhaps I had better let her do so . 
There may be a letter at your rooms . 
A letter ? What do you mean ? A letter from HER ? What has happened ? His paleness shook her , and she raised a hand of reassurance . 
Nothing has happened perhaps that is just the worst of it . 
You always HATED , you know , she added incoherently , to have things happen you never would let them . 
And now ? Well , that was what she came here for I supposed you had guessed . 
To know if anything had happened . 
Had happened ? He gazed at her slowly . 
Between you and me ? he said with a rush of light . 
The words were so much cruder than any that had ever passed between them that the color rose to her face but she held his startled gaze . 
You know girls are not quite as unsophisticated as they used to be . 
Are you surprised that such an idea should occur to her ? His own color answered hers it was the only reply that came to him . 
Mrs. Vervain went on , smoothly I supposed it might have struck you that there were times when we presented that appearance . 
He made an impatient gesture . 
A man's past is his own ! Perhaps it certainly never belongs to the woman who has shared it . 
But one learns such truths only by experience and Miss Gaynor is naturally inexperienced . 
He had seen , on the previous day , no trace of jealousy or resentment in his betrothed he could still hear the candid ring of the girl's praise of Mrs. Vervain . 
If she were such an abyss of insincerity as to dissemble distrust under such frankness , she must at least be more subtle than to bring her doubts to her rival for solution . 
At last she said slowly She came to find out if you were really free . 
Free ? he stammered , with a sense of physical disgust at contact with such crassness . 
Yes if I had quite done with you . 
She smiled in recovered security . 
It seems she likes clear outlines she has a passion for definitions . 
Yes well ? he said , wincing at the echo of his own subtlety . 
Well and when I told her that you had never belonged to me , she wanted me to define MY status to know exactly where I had stood all along . 
Thursdale sat gazing at her intently his hand was not yet on the clue . 
He uttered an uneasy exclamation . 
She didn't believe you , you mean ? I mean that she DID believe me too thoroughly . 
Well , then in God's name , what did she want ? Something more those were the words she used . 
Something more ? Between between you and me ? Is it a conundrum ? He laughed awkwardly . 
Girls are not what they were in my day they are no longer forbidden to contemplate the relation of the sexes . 
So it seems ! he commented . 
But since , in this case , there wasn't any he broke off , catching the dawn of a revelation in her gaze . 
The unpardonable offence has been in our not offending . 
He flung himself down despairingly . 
I give it up ! What did you tell her ? he burst out with sudden crudeness . 
The truth that you and I had never Had never never in all these years ! Oh , she knew why she measured us both in a flash . 
She didn't suspect me of having haggled with you her words pelted me like hail . 
'He just took what he wanted sifted and sorted you to suit his taste . 
Burnt out the gold and left a heap of cinders . 
But she despises me the most , you know far the most Mrs. Vervain ended . 
It was as though a grand opera singer had strained the acoustics of a private music room . 
Thursdale stood up , facing his hostess . 
Half the room was between them , but they seemed to stare close at each other now that the veils of reticence and ambiguity had fallen . 
His first words were characteristic . 
She DOES despise me , then ? he exclaimed . 
She thinks the pound of flesh you took was a little too near the heart . 
Please tell me exactly what she said of me . 
She did not speak much of you she is proud . 
But I gather that while she understands love or indifference , her eyes have never been opened to the many intermediate shades of feeling . 
At any rate , she expressed an unwillingness to be taken with reservations she thinks you would have loved her better if you had loved some one else first . 
So I suggested but she has her eyes on his particular portion of it . 
She insists on making it a test case . 
She wanted to know what you had done to me and before I could guess her drift I blundered into telling her . 
Thursdale drew a difficult breath . 
I never supposed your revenge is complete , he said slowly . 
He heard a little gasp in her throat . 
He held out his hand in the mechanical gesture of leave taking . 
How you must care ! for I never saw you so dull , was her answer . 
Tell her I lied to her she's too ready to believe it ! And so , after all , in a sense , I sha'n't have been wasted . 
His stare hung on her , widening to a kind of wonder . 
She gave the look back brightly , unblushingly , as though the expedient were too simple to need oblique approaches . 
It was extraordinary how a few words had swept them from an atmosphere of the most complex dissimulations to this contact of naked souls . 
It was not in Thursdale to expand with the pressure of fate but something in him cracked with it , and the rift let in new light . 
He went up to his friend and took her hand . 
You would do it you would do it ! She looked at him , smiling , but her hand shook . 
Good by , he said , kissing it . 
Good by ? You are going ? To get my letter . 
Your letter ? The letter won't matter , if you will only do what I ask . 
I might , I suppose , without being out of character . 
Only , don't you see that if your plan helped me it could only harm her ? Harm HER ? To sacrifice you wouldn't make me different . 
I shall go on being what I have always been sifting and sorting , as she calls it . 
Do you want my punishment to fall on HER ? She looked at him long and deeply . 
Ah , if I had to choose between you ! You would let her take her chance ? But I can't , you see . 
I must take my punishment alone . 
She drew her hand away , sighing . 
Oh , there will be no punishment for either of you . 
For either of us ? There will be the reading of her letter for me . 
She shook her head with a slight laugh . 
There will be no letter . 
Thursdale faced about from the threshold with fresh life in his look . 
No letter ? You don't mean I mean that she's been with you since I saw her she's seen you and heard your voice . 
If there IS a letter , she has recalled it from the first station , by telegraph . 
He turned back to the door , forcing an answer to her smile . 
But in the mean while I shall have read it , he said . 
The door closed on him , and she hid her eyes from the dreadful emptiness of the room . 
The End THE HOUSE OF THE DEAD HAND as first published in Atlantic Monthly , August I Above all , the letter ended , don't leave Siena without seeing Doctor Lombard's Leonardo . 
, and a devout student of the Italian Renaissance . 
He has lived for years in Italy , exploring its remotest corners , and has lately picked up an undoubted Leonardo , which came to light in a farmhouse near Bergamo . 
Probably not more than a peep , though , for I hear he refuses to have it reproduced . 
He lives in the Via Papa Giulio . 
Wyant sat at the table d'hote of his hotel , re reading his friend's letter over a late luncheon . 
He was just restoring the case to his pocket when he heard a hurried step behind him , and the lustrous eyed young man advanced through the glass doors of the dining room . 
Pardon me , sir , he said in measured English , and with an intonation of exquisite politeness you have let this letter fall . 
Then , fearing to appear rude , he said with a guarded politeness Perhaps , by the way , you can tell me the number of his house . 
I see it is not given here . 
The young man brightened perceptibly . 
The number of the house is thirteen but any one can indicate it to you it is well known in Siena . 
It is called , he continued after a moment , the House of the Dead Hand . 
What a queer name ! he said . 
The name comes from an antique hand of marble which for many hundred years has been above the door . 
Wyant was turning away with a gesture of thanks , when the other added If you would have the kindness to ring twice . 
To ring twice ? At the doctor's . 
It was a dazzling March afternoon , with a shower of sun from the mid blue , and a marshalling of slaty clouds behind the umber colored hills . 
He stood for a moment staring up at the strange emblem . 
Facing the AEsculapius was another door , and as Wyant put his hand on the bell rope he remembered his unknown friend's injunction , and rang twice . 
He heard her wooden pattens click down an interminable corridor , and after some delay she returned and told him to follow her . 
At the end of this apartment he was admitted to a smaller room , with the same atmosphere of mortal cold , but showing more obvious signs of occupancy . 
The walls were covered with tapestry which had faded to the gray brown tints of decaying vegetation , so that the young man felt as though he were entering a sunless autumn wood . 
I am glad to see you , he said to Wyant , extending a hand which seemed a mere framework held together by knotted veins . 
We lead a quiet life here and receive few visitors , but any friend of Professor Clyde's is welcome . 
Then , with a gesture which included the two women , he added dryly My wife and daughter often talk of Professor Clyde . 
Oh yes he used to make me such nice toast they don't understand toast in Italy , said Mrs. Lombard in a high plaintive voice . 
She was a stout fair woman , with pale cheeks netted with red lines . 
A brooch with a miniature portrait sustained a bogwood watch chain upon her bosom , and at her elbow lay a heap of knitting and an old copy of The Queen . 
The young girl , who had remained standing , was a slim replica of her mother , with an apple cheeked face and opaque blue eyes . 
Her small head was prodigally laden with braids of dull fair hair , and she might have had a kind of transient prettiness but for the sullen droop of her round mouth . 
Seating himself in the chair which his host advanced , the young man tried to open the conversation by addressing to Mrs. Lombard some random remark on the beauties of Siena . 
But they don't , you know they don't dust it ! Mrs. Lombard protested , without showing any resentment of her husband's manner . 
Precisely they don't dust it . 
Since we have lived in Siena we have not once seen the cobwebs removed from the battlements of the Mangia . 
Can you conceive of such housekeeping ? My wife has never yet dared to write it home to her aunts at Bonchurch . 
Mrs. Lombard accepted in silence this remarkable statement of her views , and her husband , with a malicious smile at Wyant's embarrassment , planted himself suddenly before the young man . 
And now , said he , do you want to see my Leonardo ? DO I ? cried Wyant , on his feet in a flash . 
Ah , he said , with a kind of crooning deliberation , that's the way they all behave that's what they all come for . 
He turned to his daughter with another variation of mockery in his smile . 
Neither lady appeared to notice his pleasantries , and he continued , addressing himself to Wyant They all come they all come but many are called and few are chosen . 
His voice sank to solemnity . 
While I live , he said , no unworthy eye shall desecrate that picture . 
But I will not do my friend Clyde the injustice to suppose that he would send an unworthy representative . 
He tells me he wishes a description of the picture for his book and you shall describe it to him if you can . 
Wyant hesitated , not knowing whether it was a propitious moment to put in his appeal for a photograph . 
Well , sir , he said , you know Clyde wants me to take away all I can of it . 
Doctor Lombard eyed him sardonically . 
You're welcome to take away all you can carry , he replied adding , as he turned to his daughter That is , if he has your permission , Sybilla . 
He followed with evident amusement the surprised glance which Wyant turned on the young girl's impassive figure . 
Sybilla , he pursued , is a votary of the arts she has inherited her fond father's passion for the unattainable . 
My dear sir , could Antigone do more ? The object of this strange eulogy had meanwhile drawn aside one of the tapestry hangings , and fitted her key into a concealed door . 
Come , said Doctor Lombard , let us go before the light fails us . 
Wyant glanced at Mrs. Lombard , who continued to knit impassively . 
No , no , said his host , my wife will not come with us . 
You might not suspect it from her conversation , but my wife has no feeling for art Italian art , that is for no one is fonder of our early Victorian school . 
Frith's Railway Station , you know , said Mrs. Lombard , smiling . 
I like an animated picture . 
This door was iron barred , and Wyant noticed that it had a complicated patent lock . 
The girl fitted another key into the lock , and Doctor Lombard led the way into a small room . 
A little too bright , Sybilla , said Doctor Lombard . 
His face had grown solemn , and his mouth twitched nervously as his daughter drew a linen drapery across the upper part of the window . 
That will do that will do . 
He turned impressively to Wyant . 
Do you see the pomegranate bud in this rug ? Place yourself there keep your left foot on it , please . 
And now , Sybilla , draw the cord . 
Miss Lombard advanced and placed her hand on a cord hidden behind the velvet curtain . 
Ah , said the doctor , one moment I should like you , while looking at the picture , to have in mind a few lines of verse . 
Bernard's invocation to the Virgin , in the thirty third canto of the Paradise . 
Thank you , my dear , said her father , drawing a deep breath as she ended . 
That unapproachable combination of vowel sounds prepares one better than anything I know for the contemplation of the picture . 
In the background a steel colored river wound through a pale calcareous landscape while to the left , on a lonely peak , a crucified Christ hung livid against indigo clouds . 
The central figure of the foreground , however , was that of a woman seated in an antique chair of marble with bas reliefs of dancing maenads . 
Her feet rested on a meadow sprinkled with minute wild flowers , and her attitude of smiling majesty recalled that of Dosso Dossi's Circe . 
She wore a red robe , flowing in closely fluted lines from under a fancifully embroidered cloak . 
John of the Louvre , poured a stream of wine from a high poised flagon . 
A scroll in a corner of the foreground bore the legend Lux Mundi . 
Wyant , emerging from the first plunge of wonder , turned inquiringly toward his companions . 
Wyant addressed the young girl . 
You are fortunate , he said , to be the possessor of anything so perfect . 
It is considered very beautiful , she said coldly . 
Beautiful BEAUTIFUL ! the doctor burst out . 
Think of the things that have been called beautiful , and then look at THAT ! It is worthy of a new vocabulary , Wyant agreed . 
Yes , Doctor Lombard continued , my daughter is indeed fortunate . 
She has chosen what Catholics call the higher life the counsel of perfection . 
What an atmosphere for a young life to unfold itself in ! My daughter is singularly blessed . 
Sybilla , point out some of the details to Mr. Wyant I see that he will appreciate them . 
The girl turned her dense blue eyes toward Wyant then , glancing away from him , she pointed to the canvas . 
Notice the modeling of the left hand , she began in a monotonous voice it recalls the hand of the Mona Lisa . 
The head of the naked genius will remind you of that of the St . 
John of the Louvre , but it is more purely pagan and is turned a little less to the right . 
The embroidery on the cloak is symbolic you will see that the roots of this plant have burst through the vase . 
This recalls the famous definition of Hamlet's character in Wilhelm Meister . 
Here are the mystic rose , the flame , and the serpent , emblem of eternity . 
Some of the other symbols we have not yet been able to decipher . 
Wyant watched her curiously she seemed to be reciting a lesson . 
And the picture itself ? he said . 
What , indeed ? the doctor interposed . 
What does life mean ? As one may define it in a hundred different ways , so one may find a hundred different meanings in this picture . 
Its symbolism is as many faceted as a well cut diamond . 
The doctor's face blazed his bent figure seemed to straighten itself and become taller . 
It means nothing it means all things . 
It may represent the period which saw its creation it may represent all ages past and to come . 
There are volumes of meaning in the tiniest emblem on the lady's cloak the blossoms of its border are rooted in the deepest soil of myth and tradition . 
Don't ask what it means , young man , but bow your head in thankfulness for having seen it ! Miss Lombard laid her hand on his arm . 
Don't excite yourself , father , she said in the detached tone of a professional nurse . 
He answered with a despairing gesture . 
Ah , it's easy for you to talk . 
You have years and years to spend with it I am an old man , and every moment counts ! It's bad for you , she repeated with gentle obstinacy . 
The doctor's sacred fury had in fact burnt itself out . 
He dropped into a seat with dull eyes and slackening lips , and his daughter drew the curtain across the picture . 
He felt that his opportunity was slipping from him , yet he dared not refer to Clyde's wish for a photograph . 
He now understood the meaning of the laugh with which Doctor Lombard had given him leave to carry away all the details he could remember . 
The doctor had risen and was walking slowly toward the door . 
His daughter unlocked it , and Wyant followed them back in silence to the room in which they had left Mrs. Lombard . 
That lady was no longer there , and he could think of no excuse for lingering . 
He thanked the doctor , and turned to Miss Lombard , who stood in the middle of the room as though awaiting farther orders . 
It is very good of you , he said , to allow one even a glimpse of such a treasure . 
She looked at him with her odd directness . 
You will come again ? she said quickly and turning to her father she added You know what Professor Clyde asked . 
This gentleman cannot give him any account of the picture without seeing it again . 
Doctor Lombard glanced at her vaguely he was still like a person in a trance . 
Eh ? he said , rousing himself with an effort . 
I said , father , that Mr. Wyant must see the picture again if he is to tell Professor Clyde about it , Miss Lombard repeated with extraordinary precision of tone . 
He had the puzzled sense that his wishes were being divined and gratified for reasons with which he was in no way connected . 
Well , well , the doctor muttered , I don't say no I don't say no . 
I know what Clyde wants I don't refuse to help him . 
You may come again you may make notes , he added with a sudden effort . 
Jot down what occurs to you . 
I'm willing to concede that . 
Wyant again caught the girl's eye , but its emphatic message perplexed him . 
If you would allow me Miss Lombard's brow darkened , and her father raised his head furiously . 
I should take the photograph myself , and the negative would of course be yours . 
If you wished it , only one impression would be struck off , and that one Clyde could return to you when he had done with it . 
Doctor Lombard interrupted him with a snarl . 
The doctor received this remarkable proposal in silence then he burst into a laugh . 
Upon my soul ! he said with sardonic good humor . 
It was Miss Lombard's turn to look perplexedly at Wyant . 
His last words and her father's unexpected reply had evidently carried her beyond her depth . 
Well , sir , am I to take the picture ? Wyant smilingly pursued . 
No , young man nor a photograph of it . 
Nor a sketch , either mind that , nothing that can be reproduced . 
Sybilla , he cried with sudden passion , swear to me that the picture shall never be reproduced ! No photograph , no sketch now or afterward . 
Do you hear me ? Yes , father , said the girl quietly . 
I said you might come back I never retract what I say . 
But you must give me your word that no one but Clyde shall see the notes you make . 
If you won't trust me with a photograph I wonder you trust me not to show my notes ! he exclaimed . 
The doctor looked at him with a malicious smile . 
Humph ! he said would they be of much use to anybody ? Wyant saw that he was losing ground and controlled his impatience . 
To Clyde , I hope , at any rate , he answered , holding out his hand . 
The doctor shook it without a trace of resentment , and Wyant added When shall I come , sir ? To morrow to morrow morning , cried Miss Lombard , speaking suddenly . 
She looked fixedly at her father , and he shrugged his shoulders . 
The picture is hers , he said to Wyant . 
In the ante chamber the young man was met by the woman who had admitted him . 
She handed him his hat and stick , and turned to unbar the door . 
As the bolt slipped back he felt a touch on his arm . 
You have a letter ? she said in a low tone . 
A letter ? He stared . 
What letter ? She shrugged her shoulders , and drew back to let him pass . 
II As Wyant emerged from the house he paused once more to glance up at its scarred brick facade . 
The marble hand drooped tragically above the entrance in the waning light it seemed to have relaxed into the passiveness of despair , and Wyant stood musing on its hidden meaning . 
But the Dead Hand was not the only mysterious thing about Doctor Lombard's house . 
The great bare aisles were almost dark when he entered , and he had to grope his way to the chapel steps . 
Under the momentary evocation of the sunset , the saint's figure emerged pale and swooning from the dusk , and the warm light gave a sensual tinge to her ecstasy . 
The flesh seemed to glow and heave , the eyelids to tremble Wyant stood fascinated by the accidental collaboration of light and color . 
Suddenly he noticed that something white had fluttered to the ground at his feet . 
He stooped and picked up a small thin sheet of note paper , folded and sealed like an old fashioned letter , and bearing the superscription To the Count Ottaviano Celsi . 
Wyant stared at this mysterious document . 
Where had it come from ? He was distinctly conscious of having seen it fall through the air , close to his feet . 
He glanced up at the dark ceiling of the chapel then he turned and looked about the church . 
There was only one figure in it , that of a man who knelt near the high altar . 
Suddenly Wyant recalled the question of Doctor Lombard's maid servant . 
At this point he was disturbed by a step on the floor of the aisle , and turning , he saw his lustrous eyed neighbor of the table d'hote . 
The young man bowed and waved an apologetic hand . 
I do not intrude ? he inquired suavely . 
Without waiting for a reply , he mounted the steps of the chapel , glancing about him with the affable air of an afternoon caller . 
I see , he remarked with a smile , that you know the hour at which our saint should be visited . 
Wyant agreed that the hour was indeed felicitous . 
The stranger stood beamingly before the picture . 
What grace ! What poetry ! he murmured , apostrophizing the St . 
Catherine , but letting his glance slip rapidly about the chapel as he spoke . 
Wyant , detecting the manoeuvre , murmured a brief assent . 
But it is cold here mortally cold you do not find it so ? The intruder put on his hat . 
It is permitted at this hour when the church is empty . 
He darted suddenly toward the steps and bent over Wyant's hat . 
Permit me cover yourself ! he said a moment later , holding out the hat with an ingratiating gesture . 
A light flashed on Wyant . 
Perhaps , he said , looking straight at the young man , you will tell me your name . 
The stranger , surprised , but not disconcerted , drew forth a coroneted card , which he offered with a low bow . 
On the card was engraved Il Conte Ottaviano Celsi . 
He drew it out and handed it to its owner , who had grown very pale . 
And now , Wyant continued , you will perhaps be good enough to tell me what all this means . 
There was no mistaking the effect produced on Count Ottaviano by this request . 
His lips moved , but he achieved only an ineffectual smile . 
I suppose you know , Wyant went on , his anger rising at the sight of the other's discomfiture , that you have taken an unwarrantable liberty . 
Count Ottaviano advanced with an imploring gesture . 
Sir , he pleaded , you permit me to speak ? I expect you to , cried Wyant . 
But not here , he added , hearing the clank of the verger's keys . 
It is growing dark , and we shall be turned out in a few minutes . 
He walked across the church , and Count Ottaviano followed him out into the deserted square . 
Now , said Wyant , pausing on the steps . 
The Count , who had regained some measure of self possession , began to speak in a high key , with an accompaniment of conciliatory gesture . 
My dear sir my dear Mr. Wyant you find me in an abominable position that , as a man of honor , I immediately confess . 
Meanwhile her suitor spared no pains to keep himself before her , to remind her that he , too , was waiting and would never give her up . 
And you told the visitors to ring twice ? Wyant interposed . 
The young man extended his hands in a deprecating gesture . 
He had organized a plan of action every detail was complete if she would but have the courage to carry out his instructions he would answer for the result . 
His idea was that she should secretly retire to a convent of which his aunt was the Mother Superior , and from that stronghold should transact the sale of the Leonardo . 
Wyant's anger had fallen at the recital of this simple romance . 
The easiest way out of the business was to take it as a joke . 
Wyant had played the wall to this new Pyramus and Thisbe , and was philosophic enough to laugh at the part he had unwittingly performed . 
He held out his hand with a smile to Count Ottaviano . 
I won't deprive you any longer , he said , of the pleasure of reading your letter . 
I thought you understood that where I come from we don't do that kind of thing knowingly . 
HIS picture ? Hers ! Well , the house is his , at all events . 
Unhappily since to her it is a dungeon ! Why doesn't she leave it , then ? exclaimed Wyant impatiently . 
The Count clasped his hands . 
Mr. Wyant , I tremble for her life while she remains in that house ! Oh , come , said Wyant lightly , they seem to understand each other well enough . 
But in any case , you must see that I can't interfere at least you would if you were an Englishman , he added with an escape of contempt . 
III Wyant's affiliations in Siena being restricted to an acquaintance with his land lady , he was forced to apply to her for the verification of Count Ottaviano's story . 
The young nobleman had , it appeared , given a perfectly correct account of his situation . 
His father , Count Celsi Mongirone , was a man of distinguished family and some wealth . 
He was syndic of Orvieto , and lived either in that town or on his neighboring estate of Mongirone . 
His wife owned a large property near Siena , and Count Ottaviano , who was the second son , came there from time to time to look into its management . 
The eldest son was in the army , the youngest in the Church and an aunt of Count Ottaviano's was Mother Superior of the Visitandine convent in Siena . 
It was sad for the young man , however , who was said to be deeply in love , and to find frequent excuses for coming to Siena to inspect his mother's estate . 
It was impossible to take Doctor Lombard lightly and there was a suggestion of fatality in the appearance of his gaunt dwelling . 
What a nice morning ! she said it must be delightful weather at Bonchurch . 
Her dull blue glance wandered across the narrow street with its threatening house fronts , and fluttered back baffled , like a bird with clipped wings . 
It was evident , poor lady , that she had never seen beyond the opposite houses . 
Wyant was not sorry to find her alone . 
Seeing that she was surprised at his reappearance he said at once I have come back to study Miss Lombard's picture . 
Oh , the picture Mrs. Lombard's face expressed a gentle disappointment , which might have been boredom in a person of acuter sensibilities . 
It's an original Leonardo , you know , she said mechanically . 
And Miss Lombard is very proud of it , I suppose ? She seems to have inherited her father's love for art . 
Mrs. Lombard counted her stitches , and he went on It's unusual in so young a girl . 
Such tastes generally develop later . 
Mrs. Lombard looked up eagerly . 
That's what I say ! I was quite different at her age , you know . 
I liked dancing , and doing a pretty bit of fancy work . 
Not that I couldn't sketch , too I had a master down from London . 
My aunts have some of my crayons hung up in their drawing room now I did a view of Kenilworth which was thought pleasing . 
But I liked a picnic , too , or a pretty walk through the woods with young people of my own age . 
I say it's more natural , Mr. Wyant one may have a feeling for art , and do crayons that are worth framing , and yet not give up everything else . 
I was taught that there were other things . 
Wyant , half ashamed of provoking these innocent confidences , could not resist another question . 
And Miss Lombard cares for nothing else ? Her mother looked troubled . 
Sybilla is so clever she says I don't understand . 
You know how self confident young people are ! My husband never said that of me , now he knows I had an excellent education . 
My aunts were very particular I was brought up to have opinions , and my husband has always respected them . 
He says himself that he wouldn't for the world miss hearing my opinion on any subject you may have noticed that he often refers to my tastes . 
He has always respected my preference for living in England he likes to hear me give my reasons for it . 
He is so much interested in my ideas that he often says he knows just what I am going to say before I speak . 
But Sybilla does not care for what I think At this point Doctor Lombard entered . 
He glanced sharply at Wyant . 
The servant is a fool she didn't tell me you were here . 
His eye turned to his wife . 
Mrs. Lombard's aunts are very superior women . 
They subscribe to the circulating library , and borrow Good Words and the Monthly Packet from the curate's wife across the way . 
They have the rector to tea twice a year , and keep a page boy , and are visited by two baronets' wives . 
They devoted themselves to the education of their orphan niece , and I think I may say without boasting that Mrs. Lombard's conversation shows marked traces of the advantages she enjoyed . 
Mrs. Lombard colored with pleasure . 
I was telling Mr. Wyant that my aunts were very particular . 
Doctor Lombard glanced at his watch . 
But we are missing an incomparable moment the light is perfect at this hour . 
Wyant rose , and the doctor led him through the tapestried door and down the passageway . 
The light was , in fact , perfect , and the picture shone with an inner radiancy , as though a lamp burned behind the soft screen of the lady's flesh . 
Every detail of the foreground detached itself with jewel like precision . 
Wyant noticed a dozen accessories which had escaped him on the previous day . 
Now , then , he said , tell Clyde what you can but the letter killeth . 
The thought that Doctor Lombard was enjoying his discomfiture at length roused him , and he began to write . 
He was interrupted by a knock on the iron door . 
Doctor Lombard rose to unlock it , and his daughter entered . 
She bowed hurriedly to Wyant , without looking at him . 
The devil ! cried her father impatiently . 
Didn't you tell him Yes but he says he can't come back . 
If you want to see him you must come now . 
Then you think there's a chance ? She nodded . 
He turned and looked at Wyant , who was writing assiduously . 
You will stay here , Sybilla I shall be back in a moment . 
He hurried out , locking the door behind him . 
I arranged it I must speak to you , she gasped . 
He'll be back in five minutes . 
Her courage seemed to fail , and she looked at him helplessly . 
Wyant had a sense of stepping among explosives . 
How can I help you ? he said with a rush of compassion . 
Oh , if you would ! I never have a chance to speak to any one it's so difficult he watches me he'll be back immediately . 
Try to tell me what I can do . 
I don't dare I feel as if he were behind me . 
She turned away , fixing her eyes on the picture . 
There he comes , and I haven't spoken ! It was my only chance but it bewilders me so to be hurried . 
I don't hear any one , said Wyant , listening . 
How can I make you understand ? It would take so long to explain . 
She drew a deep breath , and then with a plunge Will you come here again this afternoon at about five ? she whispered . 
Come here again ? Yes you can ask to see the picture , make some excuse . 
He will come with you , of course I will open the door for you and and lock you both in she gasped . 
Lock us in ? You see ? You understand ? It's the only way for me to leave the house if I am ever to do it She drew another difficult breath . 
The key will be returned by a safe person in half an hour , perhaps sooner She trembled so much that she was obliged to lean against the settle for support . 
Wyant looked at her steadily he was very sorry for her . 
I can't , Miss Lombard , he said at length . 
I will serve you in any way I can but you must see that this way is impossible . 
Can't I talk to you again ? Perhaps Oh , she cried , starting up , there he comes ! Doctor Lombard's step sounded in the passage . 
Tell me one thing he won't let you sell the picture ? No hush ! Make no pledges for the future , then promise me that . 
The future ? In case he should die your father is an old man . 
You haven't promised ? She shook her head . 
Don't , then remember that . 
She made no answer , and the key turned in the lock . 
Above the doorway , the marble hand reached out like the cry of an imprisoned anguish . 
Rubbish ! he said to himself . 
SHE isn't walled in she can get out if she wants to . 
IV Wyant had any number of plans for coming to Miss Lombard's aid he was elaborating the twentieth when , on the same afternoon , he stepped into the express train for Florence . 
A month later , after his return to England , he was unexpectedly relieved from these alternatives of extenuation and approval . 
A paragraph in the morning paper announced the sudden death of Doctor Lombard , the distinguished English dilettante who had long resided in Siena . 
Our blindest impulses become evidence of perspicacity when they fall in with the course of events . 
Wyant could now comfortably speculate on the particular complications from which his foresight had probably saved him . 
The climax was unexpectedly dramatic . 
One thing , however , struck Wyant as odd he saw no mention of the sale of the picture . 
Other affairs happened to engage him the months slipped by , and gradually the lady and the picture dwelt less vividly in his mind . 
It was not till five or six years later , when chance took him again to Siena , that the recollection started from some inner fold of memory . 
The sight revived his interest , and that evening , over an admirable frittata , he questioned his landlady about Miss Lombard's marriage . 
The daughter of the English doctor ? But she has never married , signore . 
Never married ? What , then , became of Count Ottaviano ? For a long time he waited but last year he married a noble lady of the Maremma . 
But what happened why was the marriage broken ? The landlady enacted a pantomime of baffled interrogation . 
And Miss Lombard still lives in her father's house ? Yes , signore she is still there . 
And the Leonardo The Leonardo , also , is still there . 
As he ascended the vaulted stairway the atmosphere of the place seemed a reply to his conjectures . 
The same numbing air fell on him , like an emanation from some persistent will power , a something fierce and imminent which might reduce to impotence every impulse within its range . 
Wyant could almost fancy a hand on his shoulder , guiding him upward with the ironical intent of confronting him with the evidence of its work . 
Both had grown oddly old , but in a dry , smooth way , as fruits might shrivel on a shelf instead of ripening on the tree . 
Their visitor inquired discreetly how they had fared in the interval , and learned that they had thought of returning to England , but had somehow never done so . 
I am sorry not to see my aunts again , Mrs. Lombard said resignedly but Sybilla thinks it best that we should not go this year . 
Next year , perhaps , murmured Miss Lombard , in a voice which seemed to suggest that they had a great waste of time to fill . 
She had returned to her seat , and sat bending over her work . 
Ah perhaps , then , he will come back some day to Siena , she said , sighing . 
Should you like to see it ? she asked . 
On his assenting , she rose , and extracting the same key from the same secret drawer , unlocked the door beneath the tapestry . 
They walked down the passage in silence , and she stood aside with a grave gesture , making Wyant pass before her into the room . 
Then she crossed over and drew the curtain back from the picture . 
The light of the early afternoon poured full on it its surface appeared to ripple and heave with a fluid splendor . 
He turned to Miss Lombard with a movement of comprehension . 
Ah , I understand you couldn't part with it , after all ! he cried . 
No I couldn't part with it , she answered . 
It's too beautiful , too beautiful , he assented . 
Too beautiful ? She turned on him with a curious stare . 
I have never thought it beautiful , you know . 
He gave back the stare . 
You have never She shook her head . 
I hate it I've always hated it . 
But he wouldn't let me he will never let me now . 
Wyant was startled by her use of the present tense . 
Her look surprised him , too there was a strange fixity of resentment in her innocuous eye . 
You promised him , then , before his death No I promised nothing . 
He died too suddenly to make me . 
Her voice sank to a whisper . 
I was free perfectly free or I thought I was till I tried . 
Till you tried ? To disobey him to sell the picture . 
Then I found it was impossible . 
I tried again and again but he was always in the room with me . 
She glanced over her shoulder as though she had heard a step and to Wyant , too , for a moment , the room seemed full of a third presence . 
And you can't he faltered , unconsciously dropping his voice to the pitch of hers . 
She shook her head , gazing at him mystically . 
I can't lock him out I can never lock him out now . 
I told you I should never have another chance . 
Wyant felt the chill of her words like a cold breath in his hair . 
Oh he groaned but she cut him off with a grave gesture . 
It is too late , she said but you ought to have helped me that day . 
