The Early Short Fiction of Edith Wharton A Ten Part Collection Part Two Contents of Part Two Stories AFTERWARD . 
January THE FULNESS OF LIFE . 
December A VENETIAN NIGHT'S ENTERTAINMENT . 
August Verse BOTTICELLI'S MADONNA IN THE LOUVRE . 
January THE TOMB OF ILARIA GIUNIGI . 
October AFTERWARD January I Oh , there IS one , of course , but you'll never know it . 
It belongs to Hugo's cousins , and you can get it for a song . 
Oh , Dorsetshire's full of ghosts , you know . 
Yes , yes but that won't do . 
I don't want to have to drive ten miles to see somebody else's ghost . 
I want one of my own on the premises . 
Never know it ? Boyne pulled her up . 
But what in the world constitutes a ghost except the fact of its being known for one ? I can't say . 
That there's a ghost , but that nobody knows it's a ghost ? Well not till afterward , at any rate . 
Till afterward ? Not till long , long afterward . 
One just has to wait . 
Oh , hang waiting ! Ned broke in . 
Life's too short for a ghost who can only be enjoyed in retrospect . 
They had never for a moment meant their new state to be one of idleness but they meant to give themselves only to harmonious activities . 
Dorsetshire had attracted them from the first by a semblance of remoteness out of all proportion to its geographical position . 
It's that , Ned had once enthusiastically explained , that gives such depth to their effects , such relief to their least contrasts . 
They've been able to lay the butter so thick on every exquisite mouthful . 
Her husband had gone off , after luncheon , for one of his long tramps on the downs . 
Certainly the book was not going as smoothly as she had imagined it would , and the lines of perplexity between his eyes had never been there in his engineering days . 
Then he had often looked fagged to the verge of illness , but the native demon of worry had never branded his brow . 
The fact threw her into deeper perplexity , since , now that he had done with business and its disturbing contingencies , the one other possible element of anxiety was eliminated . 
Unless it were his health , then ? But physically he had gained since they had come to Dorsetshire , grown robuster , ruddier , and fresher eyed . 
Can it be the house ? she mused . 
The room itself might have been full of secrets . 
Why , of course the house is haunted ! she reflected . 
The ghost Alida's imperceptible ghost after figuring largely in the banter of their first month or two at Lyng , had been gradually discarded as too ineffectual for imaginative use . 
And I suppose , poor , ineffectual demon , that's why it beats its beautiful wings in vain in the void , Mary had laughingly concluded . 
Or , rather , Ned answered , in the same strain , why , amid so much that's ghostly , it can never affirm its separate existence as THE ghost . 
And thereupon their invisible housemate had finally dropped out of their references , which were numerous enough to make them promptly unaware of the loss . 
But this explanation did not really satisfy her . 
Not till long afterward , Alida Stair had said . 
The view from this hidden coign was enchanting , and she had flown down to snatch Ned from his papers and give him the freedom of her discovery . 
The front door stood open on the mild sunlight of the court , and hall and court were empty . 
What was it ? Who was it ? she asked . 
Who ? he repeated , with the surprise still all on his side . 
The man we saw coming toward the house . 
He seemed honestly to reflect . 
The man ? Why , I thought I saw Peters I dashed after him to say a word about the stable drains , but he had disappeared before I could get down . 
Disappeared ? Why , he seemed to be walking so slowly when we saw him . 
So I thought but he must have got up steam in the interval . 
What do you say to our trying a scramble up Meldon Steep before sunset ? That was all . 
At the moment there could have been nothing more natural than that Ned should dash himself from the roof in the pursuit of dilatory tradesmen . 
And certainly in the distance the gray figure had looked like Peters . 
Yet now , as she reviewed the rapid scene , she felt her husband's explanation of it to have been invalidated by the look of anxiety on his face . 
II Weary with her thoughts , she moved toward the window . 
The library was now completely dark , and she was surprised to see how much faint light the outer world still held . 
It's really too absurd , she laughed out from the threshold , but I never CAN remember ! Remember what ? Boyne questioned as they drew together . 
That when one sees the Lyng ghost one never knows it . 
Her hand was on his sleeve , and he kept it there , but with no response in his gesture or in the lines of his fagged , preoccupied face . 
Did you think you'd seen it ? he asked , after an appreciable interval . 
Really , dearest , you'd better give it up , if that's the best you can do . 
Yes , I give it up I give it up . 
Have YOU ? she asked , turning round on him abruptly . 
The parlor maid had entered with letters and a lamp , and the light struck up into Boyne's face as he bent above the tray she presented . 
Have YOU ? Mary perversely insisted , when the servant had disappeared on her errand of illumination . 
Have I what ? he rejoined absently , the light bringing out the sharp stamp of worry between his brows as he turned over the letters . 
Given up trying to see the ghost . 
Her heart beat a little at the experiment she was making . 
Her husband , laying his letters aside , moved away into the shadow of the hearth . 
I never tried , he said , tearing open the wrapper of a newspaper . 
Well , of course , Mary persisted , the exasperating thing is that there's no use trying , since one can't be sure till so long afterward . 
From her seat she looked up , startled , at her husband's profile , which was darkly projected against the circle of lamplight . 
Have YOU ? she retorted , repeating her former phrase with an added keenness of intention . 
Boyne crumpled the paper into a bunch , and then inconsequently turned back with it toward the lamp . 
The lines of painful tension had vanished , and such traces of fatigue as lingered were of the kind easily attributable to steady mental effort . 
He glanced up , as if drawn by her gaze , and met her eyes with a smile . 
I'm dying for my tea , you know and here's a letter for you , he said . 
Her next conscious motion was that of starting to her feet , the letter falling to them as she rose , while she held out to her husband a long newspaper clipping . 
What's what ? You fairly made me jump ! Boyne said at length , moving toward her with a sudden , half exasperated laugh . 
Her hand shook so that she could hardly give him the clipping . 
This article from the 'Waukesha Sentinel' that a man named Elwell has brought suit against you that there was something wrong about the Blue Star Mine . 
I can't understand more than half . 
They continued to face each other as she spoke , and to her astonishment , she saw that her words had the almost immediate effect of dissipating the strained watchfulness of his look . 
Oh , THAT ! He glanced down the printed slip , and then folded it with the gesture of one who handles something harmless and familiar . 
What's the matter with you this afternoon , Mary ? I thought you'd got bad news . 
She stood before him with her undefinable terror subsiding slowly under the reassuring touch of his composure . 
You knew about this , then it's all right ? Certainly I knew about it and it's all right . 
But what IS it ? I don't understand . 
What does this man accuse you of ? Oh , pretty nearly every crime in the calendar . 
Boyne had tossed the clipping down , and thrown himself comfortably into an arm chair near the fire . 
Do you want to hear the story ? It's not particularly interesting just a squabble over interests in the Blue Star . 
But who is this Elwell ? I don't know the name . 
Oh , he's a fellow I put into it gave him a hand up . 
I told you all about him at the time . 
Vainly she strained back among her memories . 
But if you helped him , why does he make this return ? Oh , probably some shyster lawyer got hold of him and talked him over . 
It's all rather technical and complicated . 
I thought that kind of thing bored you . 
His wife felt a sting of compunction . 
Now , for the first time , it startled her a little to find how little she knew of the material foundation on which her happiness was built . 
She glanced again at her husband , and was reassured by the composure of his face yet she felt the need of more definite grounds for her reassurance . 
But it's all ancient history now . 
Your correspondent must have got hold of a back number of the 'Sentinel . 
She felt a quick thrill of relief . 
You mean it's over ? He's lost his case ? There was a just perceptible delay in Boyne's reply . 
The suit's been withdrawn that's all . 
But she persisted , as if to exonerate herself from the inward charge of being too easily put off . 
Withdrawn because he saw he had no chance ? Oh , he had no chance , Boyne answered . 
She was still struggling with a dimly felt perplexity at the back of her thoughts . 
How long ago was it withdrawn ? He paused , as if with a slight return of his former uncertainty . 
I've just had the news now but I've been expecting it . 
Just now in one of your letters ? Yes in one of my letters . 
III One of the strangest things she was afterward to recall out of all the next day's incredible strangeness was the sudden and complete recovery of her sense of security . 
The task involved on such charmed winter days almost as much delighted loitering about the different quarters of her demesne as if spring were already at work on shrubs and borders . 
And her recovered sense of safety gave , on this particular morning , a peculiar zest to her progress through the sweet , still place . 
She heard steps behind her , and turned , expecting to see the gardener , accompanied by the engineer from Dorchester . 
The local fame of Lyng occasionally attracted the more intelligent sight seer , and Mary half expected to see the stranger dissemble a camera , or justify his presence by producing it . 
His intonation , rather than his accent , was faintly American , and Mary , at the familiar note , looked at him more closely . 
Have you an appointment with Mr. Boyne ? she asked . 
He hesitated , as if unprepared for the question . 
Not exactly an appointment , he replied . 
Then I'm afraid , this being his working time , that he can't receive you now . 
She was still luxuriating in a lavish play of figures when the parlor maid , from the threshold , roused her with a dubiously worded inquiry as to the expediency of serving luncheon . 
It was one of their jokes that Trimmle announced luncheon as if she were divulging a state secret , and Mary , intent upon her papers , merely murmured an absent minded assent . 
It was still closed , and she wavered in her turn , disliking to disturb her husband , yet anxious that he should not exceed his normal measure of work . 
As she stood there , balancing her impulses , the esoteric Trimmle returned with the announcement of luncheon , and Mary , thus impelled , opened the door and went into the library . 
She turned back to the parlor maid . 
Mr. Boyne must be up stairs . 
Please tell him that luncheon is ready . 
The parlor maid appeared to hesitate between the obvious duty of obeying orders and an equally obvious conviction of the foolishness of the injunction laid upon her . 
The struggle resulted in her saying doubtfully , If you please , Madam , Mr. Boyne's not up stairs . 
Not in his room ? Are you sure ? I'm sure , Madam . 
Mary's previous conjecture had been right , then . 
Where DID he go ? And when ? He went out of the front door , up the drive , Madam . 
It was a matter of principle with Trimmle never to answer more than one question at a time . 
Up the drive ? At this hour ? Mary went to the door herself , and glanced across the court through the long tunnel of bare limes . 
But its perspective was as empty as when she had scanned it on entering the house . 
Did Mr. Boyne leave no message ? she asked . 
Trimmle seemed to surrender herself to a last struggle with the forces of chaos . 
He just went out with the gentleman . 
The gentleman ? What gentleman ? Mary wheeled about , as if to front this new factor . 
The gentleman who called , Madam , said Trimmle , resignedly . 
I couldn't exactly say the hour , Madam , because I didn't let the gentleman in , she replied , with the air of magnanimously ignoring the irregularity of her mistress's course . 
You didn't let him in ? No , Madam . 
When the bell rang I was dressing , and Agnes Go and ask Agnes , then , Mary interjected . 
Trimmle still wore her look of patient magnanimity . 
Mary looked again at the clock . 
It's after two ! Go and ask the kitchen maid if Mr. Boyne left any word . 
This conclusion relieved her from farther preoccupation , and she went out herself to take up her conference with the gardener . 
Thence she walked to the village post office , a mile or so away and when she turned toward home , the early twilight was setting in . 
Then of a sudden she was seized by a vague dread of the unknown . 
The long , quavering summons brought Trimmle in precipitately with a lamp , and Mary breathed again at this sobering reappearance of the usual . 
You may bring tea if Mr. Boyne is in , she said , to justify her ring . 
But Mr. Boyne is not in , said Trimmle , putting down the lamp . 
Not in ? You mean he's come back and gone out again ? No , Madam . 
The dread stirred again , and Mary knew that now it had her fast . 
Not since he went out with the gentleman ? Not since he went out with the gentleman . 
But who WAS the gentleman ? Mary gasped out , with the sharp note of some one trying to be heard through a confusion of meaningless noises . 
That I couldn't say , Madam . 
Trimmle , standing there by the lamp , seemed suddenly to grow less round and rosy , as though eclipsed by the same creeping shade of apprehension . 
But the kitchen maid knows wasn't it the kitchen maid who let him in ? She doesn't know either , Madam , for he wrote his name on a folded paper . 
And at the same moment her mind caught at the suggestion of the folded paper . 
But he must have a name ! Where is the paper ? She moved to the desk , and began to turn over the scattered documents that littered it . 
The first that caught her eye was an unfinished letter in her husband's hand , with his pen lying across it , as though dropped there at a sudden summons . 
But the kitchen maid SAW him . 
Send her here , she commanded , wondering at her dullness in not thinking sooner of so simple a solution . 
The gentleman was a stranger , yes that she understood . 
Then , if you saw the gentleman twice , you must be able to tell me what he looked like . 
But with this final challenge to her powers of expression it became clear that the limit of the kitchen maid's endurance had been reached . 
His hat had a wide brim , you mean ? and his face was pale a youngish face ? Mary pressed her , with a white lipped intensity of interrogation . 
But if the kitchen maid found any adequate answer to this challenge , it was swept away for her listener down the rushing current of her own convictions . 
A CONFOUNDEDLY HARD PLACE TO GET LOST IN ! That had been her husband's phrase . 
Even the usual misleading reports that raise expectancy in tortured bosoms had been few and fleeting . 
No one but the bewildered kitchen maid had seen him leave the house , and no one else had seen the gentleman who accompanied him . 
All inquiries in the neighborhood failed to elicit the memory of a stranger's presence that day in the neighborhood of Lyng . 
The sunny English noon had swallowed him as completely as if he had gone out into Cimmerian night . 
But if any such had existed in the background of Boyne's life , they had disappeared as completely as the slip of paper on which the visitor had written his name . 
There remained no possible thread of guidance except if it were indeed an exception the letter which Boyne had apparently been in the act of writing when he received his mysterious summons . 
That letter , read and reread by his wife , and submitted by her to the police , yielded little enough for conjecture to feed on . 
I have just heard of Elwell's death , and while I suppose there is now no farther risk of trouble , it might be safer That was all . 
The risk of trouble was easily explained by the newspaper clipping which had apprised Mary of the suit brought against her husband by one of his associates in the Blue Star enterprise . 
This negative information , sole fruit of the first fortnight's feverish search , was not increased by a jot during the slow weeks that followed . 
Mary knew that the investigations were still being carried on , but she had a vague sense of their gradually slackening , as the actual march of time seemed to slacken . 
And so with the human imaginations at work on the dark event . 
Even Mary Boyne's consciousness gradually felt the same lowering of velocity . 
It still swayed with the incessant oscillations of conjecture but they were slower , more rhythmical in their beat . 
These moments lengthened into hours and days , till she passed into a phase of stolid acquiescence . 
She watched the familiar routine of life with the incurious eye of a savage on whom the meaningless processes of civilization make but the faintest impression . 
And this deepening apathy held her fast at Lyng , in spite of the urgent entreaties of friends and the usual medical recommendation of change . 
But in reality she had no such belief the depths of anguish inclosing her were no longer lighted by flashes of hope . 
She was sure that Boyne would never come back , that he had gone out of her sight as completely as if Death itself had waited that day on the threshold . 
She had even renounced , one by one , the various theories as to his disappearance which had been advanced by the press , the police , and her own agonized imagination . 
In sheer lassitude her mind turned from these alternatives of horror , and sank back into the blank fact that he was gone . 
No , she would never know what had become of him no one would ever know . 
But the house KNEW the library in which she spent her long , lonely evenings knew . 
For it was here that the last scene had been enacted , here that the stranger had come , and spoken the word which had caused Boyne to rise and follow him . 
But the revelation never came , and she knew it would never come . 
Lyng was not one of the garrulous old houses that betray the secrets intrusted to them . 
Its very legend proved that it had always been the mute accomplice , the incorruptible custodian of the mysteries it had surprised . 
And Mary Boyne , sitting face to face with its portentous silence , felt the futility of seeking to break it by any human means . 
V I don't say it WASN'T straight , yet don't say it WAS straight . 
Mary , at the words , lifted her head with a start , and looked intently at the speaker . 
Parvis , civilly , but without vain preamble , in the manner of a man who has his watch in his hand , had set forth the object of his visit . 
The words touched the spring of some obscure dread in Mary's bosom . 
Was it possible that she really knew as little as she said ? I know nothing you must tell me , she faltered out and her visitor thereupon proceeded to unfold his story . 
It threw , even to her confused perceptions , and imperfectly initiated vision , a lurid glare on the whole hazy episode of the Blue Star Mine . 
Parvis , at Mary's first startled cry , had thrown her a sobering glance through his impartial glasses . 
Bob Elwell wasn't smart enough , that's all if he had been , he might have turned round and served Boyne the same way . 
It's the kind of thing that happens every day in business . 
I guess it's what the scientists call the survival of the fittest , said Mr. Parvis , evidently pleased with the aptness of his analogy . 
Mary felt a physical shrinking from the next question she tried to frame it was as though the words on her lips had a taste that nauseated her . 
But then you accuse my husband of doing something dishonorable ? Mr. Parvis surveyed the question dispassionately . 
Oh , no , I don't . 
I don't even say it wasn't straight . 
He glanced up and down the long lines of books , as if one of them might have supplied him with the definition he sought . 
I don't say it WASN'T straight , and yet I don't say it WAS straight . 
After all , no definition in his category could be more comprehensive than that . 
Mary sat staring at him with a look of terror . 
He seemed to her like the indifferent , implacable emissary of some dark , formless power . 
But Mr. Elwell's lawyers apparently did not take your view , since I suppose the suit was withdrawn by their advice . 
Oh , yes , they knew he hadn't a leg to stand on , technically . 
It was when they advised him to withdraw the suit that he got desperate . 
You see , he'd borrowed most of the money he lost in the Blue Star , and he was up a tree . 
That's why he shot himself when they told him he had no show . 
The horror was sweeping over Mary in great , deafening waves . 
He shot himself ? He killed himself because of THAT ? Well , he didn't kill himself , exactly . 
He dragged on two months before he died . 
Parvis emitted the statement as unemotionally as a gramophone grinding out its record . 
You mean that he tried to kill himself , and failed ? And tried again ? Oh , he didn't have to try again , said Parvis , grimly . 
Why , I didn't understand it strictly speaking . 
And it wasn't the time to talk about it , if I had . 
The Elwell business was settled when the suit was withdrawn . 
Nothing I could have told you would have helped you to find your husband . 
Mary continued to scrutinize him . 
Then why are you telling me now ? Still Parvis did not hesitate . 
Well , to begin with , I supposed you knew more than you appear to I mean about the circumstances of Elwell's death . 
And then people are talking of it now the whole matter's been raked up again . 
And I thought , if you didn't know , you ought to . 
She remained silent , and he continued You see , it's only come out lately what a bad state Elwell's affairs were in . 
But she had his bedridden mother to look after , and the children , and she broke down under it , and finally had to ask for help . 
That attracted attention to the case , and the papers took it up , and a subscription was started . 
Here , he continued , here's an account of the whole thing from the 'Sentinel' a little sensational , of course . 
But I guess you'd better look it over . 
The first was her husband's , taken from a photograph made the year they had come to England . 
It was the picture of him that she liked best , the one that stood on the writing table up stairs in her bedroom . 
As the eyes in the photograph met hers , she felt it would be impossible to read what was said of him , and closed her lids with the sharpness of the pain . 
I thought if you felt disposed to put your name down she heard Parvis continue . 
She opened her eyes with an effort , and they fell on the other portrait . 
It was that of a youngish man , slightly built , in rough clothes , with features somewhat blurred by the shadow of a projecting hat brim . 
Where had she seen that outline before ? She stared at it confusedly , her heart hammering in her throat and ears . 
Then she gave a cry . 
With an intense effort she straightened herself , and reached out for the paper , which she had dropped . 
It's the man ! I should know him anywhere ! she cried in a voice that sounded in her own ears like a scream . 
Parvis's voice seemed to come to her from far off , down endless , fog muffled windings . 
Mrs. Boyne , you're not very well . 
Shall I call somebody ? Shall I get a glass of water ? No , no , no ! She threw herself toward him , her hand frantically clenching the newspaper . 
I tell you , it's the man ! I KNOW him ! He spoke to me in the garden ! Parvis took the journal from her , directing his glasses to the portrait . 
It can't be , Mrs. Boyne . 
Robert Elwell ? Her white stare seemed to travel into space . 
Then it was Robert Elwell who came for him . 
Came for Boyne ? The day he went away ? Parvis's voice dropped as hers rose . 
He bent over , laying a fraternal hand on her , as if to coax her gently back into her seat . 
Why , Elwell was dead ! Don't you remember ? Mary sat with her eyes fixed on the picture , unconscious of what he was saying . 
Don't you remember Boyne's unfinished letter to me the one you found on his desk that day ? It was written just after he'd heard of Elwell's death . 
She noticed an odd shake in Parvis's unemotional voice . 
Surely you remember that ! he urged her . 
Yes , she remembered that was the profoundest horror of it . 
Elwell had died the day before her husband's disappearance and this was Elwell's portrait and it was the portrait of the man who had spoken to her in the garden . 
She lifted her head and looked slowly about the library . 
The library could have borne witness that it was also the portrait of the man who had come in that day to call Boyne from his unfinished letter . 
This was the man who spoke to me , she repeated . 
She looked again at Parvis . 
He was trying to conceal his disturbance under what he imagined to be an expression of indulgent commiseration but the edges of his lips were blue . 
He thinks me mad but I'm not mad , she reflected and suddenly there flashed upon her a way of justifying her strange affirmation . 
She saw that he was growing still more afraid of her . 
I have a reason , she insisted gently . 
About two months before , I should say . 
I want the date , she repeated . 
Parvis picked up the newspaper . 
We might see here , he said , still humoring her . 
He ran his eyes down the page . 
Last October the She caught the words from him . 
The th , wasn't it ? With a sharp look at her , he verified . 
Then you DID know ? I know now . 
Her white stare continued to travel past him . 
Sunday , the th that was the day he came first . 
Parvis's voice was almost inaudible . 
Came HERE first ? Yes . 
You saw him twice , then ? Yes , twice . 
She breathed it at him with dilated eyes . 
He came first on the th of October . 
I remember the date because it was the day we went up Meldon Steep for the first time . 
She felt a faint gasp of inward laughter at the thought that but for that she might have forgotten . 
Parvis continued to scrutinize her , as if trying to intercept her gaze . 
We saw him from the roof , she went on . 
He came down the lime avenue toward the house . 
He was dressed just as he is in that picture . 
My husband saw him first . 
He was frightened , and ran down ahead of me but there was no one there . 
Elwell had vanished ? Parvis faltered . 
Their two whispers seemed to grope for each other . 
I couldn't think what had happened . 
He TRIED to come then but he wasn't dead enough he couldn't reach us . 
He had to wait for two months and then he came back again and Ned went with him . 
She nodded at Parvis with the look of triumph of a child who has successfully worked out a difficult puzzle . 
But suddenly she lifted her hands with a desperate gesture , pressing them to her bursting temples . 
Oh , my God ! I sent him to Ned I told him where to go ! I sent him to this room ! she screamed out . 
But she was numb to his touch , she did not know what he was saying . 
Through the tumult she heard but one clear note , the voice of Alida Stair , speaking on the lawn at Pangbourne . 
You won't know till afterward , it said . 
You won't know till long , long afterward . 
The resistance , the effort , had known their hour of violence but now they were at an end . 
and that she should never again hear the creaking of her husband's boots those horrible boots and that no one would come to bother her about the next day's dinner . 
And into this darkness she felt herself sinking , sinking , with the gentle sense of security of one upheld from beneath . 
Ah , now it was rising too high the impulse to struggle was renewed . 
Help ! It is all over , said the nurse , drawing down the eyelids with official composure . 
Someone opened the window and let in a blast of that strange , neutral air which walks the earth between darkness and dawn someone else led the husband into another room . 
He walked vaguely , like a blind man , on his creaking boots . 
She stood , as it seemed , on a threshold , yet no tangible gateway was in front of her . 
As she gazed , her heart beat with a soft and rapturous surprise so exquisite a promise she read in the summons of that hyaline distance . 
And so death is not the end after all , in sheer gladness she heard herself exclaiming aloud . 
I always knew that it couldn't be . 
I believed in Darwin , of course . 
I do still but then Darwin himself said that he wasn't sure about the soul at least , I think he did and Wallace was a spiritualist and then there was St . 
George Mivart Her gaze lost itself in the ethereal remoteness of the mountains . 
How beautiful ! How satisfying ! she murmured . 
Perhaps now I shall really know what it is to live . 
As she spoke she felt a sudden thickening of her heart beats , and looking up she was aware that before her stood the Spirit of Life . 
Have you never really known what it is to live ? the Spirit of Life asked her . 
And what do you call the fulness of life ? the Spirit asked again . 
Oh , I can't tell you , if you don't know , she said , almost reproachfully . 
Oh , I was fond of him , and we were counted a very happy couple . 
To what influence , then , did you owe those exquisite sensations ? I can hardly tell . 
Someone whom you loved ? asked the Spirit . 
Tell me about it , said the Spirit . 
It was near sunset on a rainy spring afternoon in Easter week . 
The clouds had vanished , dispersed by a sudden wind , and as we entered the church the fiery panes of the high windows shone out like lamps through the dusk . 
We stole behind them and sat down on a bench close to the tabernacle of Orcagna . 
My heart beat to suffocation , the tears burned my lids , the joy , the mystery of it seemed too intolerable to be borne . 
Her recital ended , there was an interval of silence then the Spirit of Life said There is a compensation in store for such needs as you have expressed . 
Oh , then you DO understand ? she exclaimed . 
A glad cry broke from her lips . 
Ah , shall I find him at last ? she cried , exultant . 
He is here , said the Spirit of Life . 
drew her toward him with an invincible force . 
Are you really he ? she murmured . 
I am he , he answered . 
She laid her hand in his and drew him toward the parapet which overhung the valley . 
What ? she asked , with rising joy . 
Then you , too , have looked for me ? All my life . 
How wonderful ! And did you never , never find anyone in the other world who understood you ? Not wholly not as you and I understand each other . 
Then you feel it , too ? Oh , I am happy , she sighed . 
Did you never feel at sunset Ah , yes but I never heard anyone else say so . 
Did you ? Do you remember that line in the third canto of the 'Inferno ? Ah , that line my favorite always . 
Have you never thought Oh , yes , often and often but I never dreamed that anyone else had . 
At length , with a certain tender impatience , he turned to her and said Love , why should we linger here ? All eternity lies before us . 
Let us go down into that beautiful country together and make a home for ourselves on some blue hill above the shining river . 
As he spoke , the hand she had forgotten in his was suddenly withdrawn , and he felt that a cloud was passing over the radiance of her soul . 
She did not answer , but she thought to herself , with an impulse of whimsical inconsistency , Unless you slammed the door and wore creaking boots . 
But he had recovered his hold upon her hand , and by imperceptible degrees was leading her toward the shining steps which descended to the valley . 
It seems to me that I can see our home already . 
Indoors our favorite pictures hang upon the walls and the rooms are lined with books . 
Think , dear , at last we shall have time to read them all . 
With which shall we begin ? Come , help me to choose . 
What is it ? he entreated . 
Wait a moment , she said , with a strange hesitation in her voice . 
Still she stood motionless , and he saw that the shadow deepened on her soul . 
Surely , love , he rebuked her , it was not that which troubled you ? For my part I have walked through Lethe . 
The past has melted like a cloud before the moon . 
I never lived until I saw you . 
I want to ask you a question , she said , in a troubled voice . 
Ask , said the Spirit . 
A little while ago , she began , slowly , you told me that every soul which has not found a kindred soul on earth is destined to find one here . 
And have you not found one ? asked the Spirit . 
She gave a little cry . 
Was it of disappointment or triumph ? Then then what will happen to him when he comes here ? That I cannot tell you . 
Some field of activity and happiness he will doubtless find , in due measure to his capacity for being active and happy . 
She interrupted , almost angrily He will never be happy without me . 
Do not be too sure of that , said the Spirit . 
She took no notice of this , and the Spirit continued He will not understand you here any better than he did on earth . 
No matter , she said I shall be the only sufferer , for he always thought that he understood me . 
His boots will creak just as much as ever No matter . 
And he will slam the door Very likely . 
And continue to read railway novels She interposed , impatiently Many men do worse than that . 
But you said just now , said the Spirit , that you did not love him . 
Besides , no one else would know how to look after him , he is so helpless . 
His inkstand would never be filled , and he would always be out of stamps and visiting cards . 
He would never remember to have his umbrella re covered , or to ask the price of anything before he bought it . 
Why , he wouldn't even know what novels to read . 
I always had to choose the kind he liked , with a murder or a forgery and a successful detective . 
She turned abruptly to her kindred soul , who stood listening with a mien of wonder and dismay . 
Don't you see , she said , that I can't possibly go with you ? But what do you intend to do ? asked the Spirit of Life . 
What do I intend to do ? she returned , indignantly . 
Why , I mean to wait for my husband , of course . 
If he had come here first HE would have waited for me for years and years and it would break his heart not to find me here when he comes . 
She pointed with a contemptuous gesture to the magic vision of hill and vale sloping away to the translucent mountains . 
He wouldn't give a fig for all that , she said , if he didn't find me here . 
But consider , warned the Spirit , that you are now choosing for eternity . 
It is a solemn moment . 
Choosing ! she said , with a half sad smile . 
Do you still keep up here that old fiction about choosing ? I should have thought that YOU knew better than that . 
So be it , said the Spirit . 
Here , as on earth , each one must decide for himself . 
She turned to her kindred soul and looked at him gently , almost wistfully . 
I am sorry , she said . 
Will my husband come soon ? she asked the Spirit of Life . 
That you are not destined to know , the Spirit replied . 
No matter , she said , cheerfully I have all eternity to wait in . 
And still seated alone on the threshold , she listens for the creaking of his boots . 
, used to relate to his grandsons , about the year that Buonaparte marched upon Moscow . 
VENICE ! The name , since childhood , had been a magician's wand to him . 
Peter's Church in Rome and , in a corner the corner nearest the rack where the old flintlocks hung a busy merry populous scene , entitled ST . 
This picture , from the first , had singularly taken little Tony's fancy . 
His unformulated criticism on the others was that they lacked action . 
True , in the view of St . 
But in Venice so many things were happening at once more , Tony was sure , than had ever happened in Boston in a twelve month or in Salem in a long lifetime . 
As Tony advanced in years and experience this childish mumming lost its magic but not so the early imaginings it had excited . 
For the old picture had been but the spring board of fancy , the first step of a cloud ladder leading to a land of dreams . 
MAGIC ! That was the word which the thought of Venice evoked . 
The encounter set the glasses spinning and three or four spun off and clattered to the stones . 
The sherbet seller called on all the saints , and Tony , clapping a lordly hand to his pocket , tossed him a ducat by mistake for a sequin . 
they set out again to view the town . 
The gravest Senators of the Republic went in prodigious striped trousers , short cloaks and feathered hats . 
The Count yielded reluctantly but as they came out again on the square they were caught in a great throng pouring toward the doors of the cathedral . 
They go to Benediction , said the Count . 
A beautiful sight , with many lights and flowers . 
It is a pity you cannot take a peep at it . 
She wore one of the voluminous black hoods which the Venetian ladies affected , and under its projecting eaves her face spied out at him as sweet as a nesting bird . 
In the dusk their hands met over the scabbard , and as she freed herself a shred of her lace flounce clung to Tony's enchanted fingers . 
The Count met Tony's eye with a smile . 
One of our Venetian beauties , said he the lovely Polixena Cador . 
She is thought to have the finest eyes in Venice . 
She spoke English , stammered Tony . 
Oh ah precisely she learned the language at the Court of Saint James's , where her father , the Senator , was formerly accredited as Ambassador . 
She played as an infant with the royal princes of England . 
And that was her father ? Assuredly young ladies of Donna Polixena's rank do not go abroad save with their parents or a duenna . 
Just then a soft hand slid into Tony's . 
Tony , in a tingle , glanced surreptitiously at the Count , who appeared absorbed in his prayers . 
I am in dreadful trouble and implore your help . 
Keep quiet and do as I tell you . 
Tony was no chicken heart . 
This is one of the agents of the Ten . 
For God's sake , no outcry . 
He exchanged a word or two with the mace bearer and again turned to Tony . 
You have been seen concealing a letter about your person And what of that ? says Tony furiously . 
Gently , gently , my master . 
A letter handed to you by the page of Donna Polixena Cador . 
I am sorry , sir but our young ladies of rank are as jealously guarded as the Grand Turk's wives , and you must be answerable for this scandal . 
The best I can do is to have you taken privately to the Palazzo Cador , instead of being brought before the Council . 
I have pleaded your youth and inexperience Tony winced at this and I think the business may still be arranged . 
The Count repeated this to Tony's custodian , but the latter shook his head and rattled off a sharp denial . 
Impossible , sir , said the Count . 
I entreat you not to insist . 
Any resistance will tell against you in the end . 
With a rapid eye he was measuring his chances of escape . 
Space was what he wanted a clear ten yards , and he would have laughed at Doge and Council . 
But the throng was thick as glue , and he walked on submissively , keeping his eye alert for an opening . 
Suddenly the mob swerved aside after some new show . 
Tony's fist shot out at the black fellow's chest , and before the latter could right himself the young New Englander was showing a clean pair of heels to his escort . 
But now his pursuers were at his back , reinforced by the yelping mob . 
The walls were too high to scale , and for all his courage Tony's breath came short as he paced the masonry cage in which ill luck had landed him . 
Suddenly a gate opened in one of the walls , and a slip of a servant wench looked out and beckoned him . 
There was no time to weigh chances . 
Tony dashed through the gate , his rescuer slammed and bolted it , and the two stood in a narrow paved well between high houses . 
II The servant picked up a lantern and signed to Tony to follow her . 
They climbed a squalid stairway of stone , felt their way along a corridor , and entered a tall vaulted room feebly lit by an oil lamp hung from the painted ceiling . 
She sprang toward him with outstretched hands , but as he advanced her face changed and she shrank back abashed . 
This is a misunderstanding a dreadful misunderstanding , she cried out in her pretty broken English . 
Oh , how does it happen that you are here ? Through no choice of my own , madam , I assure you ! retorted Tony , not over pleased by his reception . 
What ! It was YOU who received my letter ? She swept round on the little maid servant and submerged her under a flood of Venetian . 
The latter volleyed back in the same jargon , and as she did so , Tony's astonished eye detected in her the doubleted page who had handed him the letter in Saint Mark's . 
What ! he cried , the lad was this girl in disguise ? Polixena broke off with an irrepressible smile but her face clouded instantly and she returned to the charge . 
Here a wave of mirth again overran Polixena's face . 
Oh , sir , you must pardon my poor girl's mistake . 
She heard you speaking English , and and I had told her to hand the letter to the handsomest foreigner in the church . 
Tony bowed again , more profoundly . 
The English Ambassador , Polixena added simply , is a very handsome man . 
I wish , madam , I were a better proxy ! She echoed his laugh , and then clapped her hands together with a look of anguish . 
Meanwhile the other nobles gesticulated vehemently among themselves , and one , a truculent looking personage in ruff and Spanish cape , stalked apart , keeping a jealous eye on Tony . 
At this point , luckily , his friend Count Rialto suddenly broke in on the scene , and was at once assailed by all the tongues in the room . 
He pulled a long face at sight of Tony , but signed to the young man to be silent , and addressed himself earnestly to the Senator . 
The latter , at first , would not draw breath to hear him but presently , sobering , he walked apart with the Count , and the two conversed together out of earshot . 
My dear sir , said the Count , at length turning to Tony with a perturbed countenance , it is as I feared , and you are fallen into a great misfortune . 
Be careful , said the Count , in a low tone . 
Sir , interposed the Count , we are not accustomed in Venice to take shelter behind a lady's reputation . 
No more are we in Salem , retorted Tony in a white heat . 
I was merely about to remark that , by the young lady's avowal , she has never seen me before . 
Polixena's eyes signalled her gratitude , and he felt he would have died to defend her . 
The Count translated his statement , and presently pursued His Illustriousness observes that , in that case , his daughter's misconduct has been all the more reprehensible . 
The incident was witnessed by his Illustriousness the Marquess Zanipolo , who , in consequence , has already repudiated his unhappy bride . 
Tony stared contemptuously at the black Marquess . 
That , my dear young gentleman , is hardly for you to decide . 
Your only excuse being your ignorance of our customs , it is scarcely for you to advise us how to behave in matters of punctilio . 
It seemed to Tony as though the Count were going over to his enemies , and the thought sharpened his retort . 
As he had himself no notion what the letter was about , this was as far as he dared commit himself . 
Her reply was a faint negative motion , accompanied by unmistakable signs of apprehension . 
Poor girl ! he thought , she is in a worse case than I imagined , and whatever happens I must keep her secret . 
He turned to the Senator with a deep bow . 
I am not , said he , in the habit of showing my private correspondence to strangers . 
The Count interpreted these words , and Donna Polixena's father , dashing his hand on his hilt , broke into furious invective , while the Marquess continued to nurse his outraged feelings aloof . 
The Count shook his head funereally . 
Alas , sir , it is as I feared . 
This is not the first time that youth and propinquity have led to fatal imprudence . 
But I need hardly , I suppose , point out the obligation incumbent upon you as a man of honour . 
Tony stared at him haughtily , with a look which was meant for the Marquess . 
And what obligation is that ? To repair the wrong you have done in other words , to marry the lady . 
The sense of the girl's grave plight effaced all thought of his own risk , but the Count's last words struck him as so preposterous that he could not repress a smile . 
I cannot flatter myself , said he , that the lady would welcome this solution . 
The Count's manner became increasingly ceremonious . 
But I understood just now , Tony interposed , that the gentleman yonder was in that enviable position . 
So he was , till circumstances obliged him to waive the privilege in your favour . 
He does me too much honour but if a deep sense of my unworthiness obliges me to decline You are still , interrupted the Count , labouring under a misapprehension . 
Your choice in the matter is no more to be consulted than the lady's . 
Not to put too fine a point on it , it is necessary that you should marry her within the hour . 
Tony , at this , for all his spirit , felt the blood run thin in his veins . 
And if I refuse ? said he . 
The Count made a significant gesture . 
I am not so foolish as to threaten a man of your mettle . 
But perhaps you are unaware what the consequences would be to the lady . 
Polixena , at this , struggling to her feet , addressed a few impassioned words to the Count and her father but the latter put her aside with an obdurate gesture . 
The Count turned to Tony . 
The lady herself pleads for you at what cost you do not guess but as you see it is vain . 
In an hour his Illustriousness's chaplain will be here . 
Meanwhile his Illustriousness consents to leave you in the custody of your betrothed . 
He stepped back , and the other gentlemen , bowing with deep ceremony to Tony , stalked out one by one from the room . 
Tony heard the key turn in the lock , and found himself alone with Polixena . 
III The girl had sunk into a chair , her face hidden , a picture of shame and agony . 
So moving was the sight that Tony once again forgot his own extremity in the view of her distress . 
He went and kneeled beside her , drawing her hands from her face . 
Oh , don't make me look at you ! she sobbed but it was on his bosom that she hid from his gaze . 
He held her there a breathing space , as he might have clasped a weeping child then she drew back and put him gently from her . 
What humiliation ! she lamented . 
Ah it was that you wrote for ? cried Tony with unaccountable relief . 
Of course what else did you think ? But is it too late for the Ambassador to save you ? From YOU ? A smile flashed through her tears . 
She drew back and hid her face again , as though overcome by a fresh wave of shame . 
If I could wrench a bar out of that window he muttered . 
Impossible ! The court is guarded . 
You are a prisoner , alas . 
Oh , I must speak ! She sprang up and paced the room . 
Ah , you come from a free country . 
Here a girl is allowed no choice . 
It is infamous , I say infamous ! No , no I ought to have resigned myself , like so many others . 
Yes , and how to save you for I CAN save you ! But every moment counts and yet what I have to say is so dreadful . 
Nothing from your lips could seem dreadful . 
No , I am not free , she said but you are , if you will do as I tell you . 
What am I to do ? he said . 
Look away from me , or I can never tell you . 
He thought at first that this was a jest , but her eyes commanded him , and reluctantly he walked away and leaned in the embrasure of the window . 
You must know that the Marquess Zanipolo , though a great noble , is not a rich man . 
True , he has large estates , but he is a desperate spendthrift and gambler , and would sell his soul for a round sum of ready money . 
Go on , he said . 
Will you not understand ? Oh , I would say anything to save you ! You don't know us Venetians we're all to be bought for a price . 
It is not only the brides who are marketable sometimes the husbands sell themselves too . 
My poor child , my poor Polixena ! he cried , and wept and clasped her . 
You ARE rich , are you not ? You would promise them a ransom ? she persisted . 
To enable you to marry the Marquess ? To enable you to escape from this place . 
Oh , I hope I may never see your face again . 
She fell to weeping once more , and he drew away and paced the floor in a fever . 
Presently she sprang up with a fresh air of resolution , and pointed to a clock against the wall . 
The hour is nearly over . 
It is quite true that my father is gone to fetch his chaplain . 
Oh , I implore you , be warned by me ! There is no other way of escape . 
And if I do as you say ? You are safe ! You are free ! I stake my life on it . 
And you you are married to that villain ? But I shall have saved you . 
Tell me your name , that I may say it to myself when I am alone . 
But you must not marry that fellow . 
You forgive me , Anthony ? You don't think too badly of me ? I say you must not marry that fellow . 
She laid a trembling hand on his arm . 
Time presses , she adjured him , and I warn you there is no other way . 
For a moment he had a vision of his mother , sitting very upright , on a Sunday evening , reading Dr . 
Tillotson's sermons in the best parlour at Salem then he swung round on the girl and caught both her hands in his . 
Yes , there is , he cried , if you are willing . 
Polixena , let the priest come ! She shrank back from him , white and radiant . 
Oh , hush , be silent ! she said . 
I am no noble Marquess , and have no great estates , he cried . 
My father is a plain India merchant in the colony of Massachusetts but if you Oh , hush , I say ! I don't know what your long words mean . 
But I bless you , bless you , bless you on my knees ! And she knelt before him , and fell to kissing his hands . 
He drew her up to his breast and held her there . 
You are willing , Polixena ? he said . 
No , no ! She broke from him with outstretched hands . 
I must marry the Marquess , I tell you ! On my money ? he taunted her and her burning blush rebuked him . 
Yes , on your money , she said sadly . 
Why ? Because , much as you hate him , you hate me still more ? She was silent . 
If you hate me , why do you sacrifice yourself for me ? he persisted . 
You torture me ! And I tell you the hour is past . 
I'll not accept your sacrifice . 
I will not lift a finger to help another man to marry you . 
Oh , madman , madman ! she murmured . 
Tony , with crossed arms , faced her squarely , and she leaned against the wall a few feet off from him . 
Her breast throbbed under its lace and falbalas , and her eyes swam with terror and entreaty . 
Polixena , I love you ! he cried . 
A blush swept over her throat and bosom , bathing her in light to the verge of her troubled brows . 
I love you ! I love you ! he repeated . 
And now she was on his breast again , and all their youth was in their lips . 
But her embrace was as fleeting as a bird's poise and before he knew it he clasped empty air , and half the room was between them . 
She was holding up a little coral charm and laughing . 
I took it from your fob , she said . 
It is of no value , is it ? And I shall not get any of the money , you know . 
She continued to laugh strangely , and the rouge burned like fire in her ashen face . 
What are you talking of ? he said . 
They never give me anything but the clothes I wear . 
And I shall never see you again , Anthony ! She gave him a dreadful look . 
He fell back from her , and a sob broke from him as he bowed his head on his hands . 
Only , for God's sake , have the money ready , or there may be foul play here , she said . 
As she spoke there was a great tramping of steps outside and a burst of voices on the threshold . 
And as the key rattled in the door she laid her lips on his brow . 
The captain strode briskly into the room , uttering a grunt of satisfaction as he clapped eyes on Tony . 
He glanced about the apartment and doffed his hat with mock ceremony to Polixena , who faced him like a princess . 
At this Tony saw Count Rialto step forward , looking very small and explanatory , and uncovering obsequiously to the captain . 
Mr. Mounce shrank visibly at this , and the captain burst into a loud guffaw . 
Why , my cock , that's very handsome of you , considering the rope's at your throats . 
But we'll not take advantage of your generosity , for I fear Mr. Bracknell has already trespassed on it too long . 
You pack of galley slaves , you ! he spluttered suddenly , decoying young innocents with that devil's bait of yours His eye fell on Polixena , and his voice softened unaccountably . 
Ah , well , we must all see the Carnival once , I suppose , he said . 
The End of A Venetian Night's Entertainment XINGU December , Mrs. Ballinger is one of the ladies who pursue Culture in bands , as though it were dangerous to meet alone . 
To this end she had founded the Lunch Club , an association composed of herself and several other indomitable huntresses of erudition . 
The Club was to meet at Mrs. Ballinger's . 
Mrs. Plinth made no secret of sharing this view . 
She had always regarded it as one of her obligations to entertain the Lunch Club's distinguished guests . 
The question of that lady's reception had for a month past profoundly moved the members of the Lunch Club . 
Mrs. Roby alone had abstained from profiting by the opportunity thus offered but it was now openly recognised that , as a member of the Lunch Club , Mrs. Roby was a failure . 
It all comes , as Miss Van Vluyck put it , of accepting a woman on a man's estimation . 
I suppose she flattered him , Miss Van Vluyck summed up or else it's the way she does her hair . 
This feeling was augmented by the discovery that she had not yet read The Wings of Death . 
She owned to having heard the name of Osric Dane but that incredible as it appeared was the extent of her acquaintance with the celebrated novelist . 
Mrs. Roby took this rebuke good humouredly . 
She had meant , she owned to glance through the book but she had been so absorbed in a novel of Trollope's that No one reads Trollope now , Mrs. Ballinger interrupted impatiently . 
I'm only just beginning , she confessed . 
And does he interest you ? Mrs. Plinth inquired . 
Amusement , said Mrs. Plinth sententiously , is hardly what I look for in my choice of books . 
Was it MEANT to be ? enquired Mrs. Plinth , who was fond of asking questions that she permitted no one but herself to answer . 
Assuredly not that is what I was going to say , assented Mrs. Leveret , hastily rolling up her opinion and reaching for another . 
It was meant to to elevate . 
Miss Van Vluyck adjusted her spectacles as though they were the black cap of condemnation . 
I hardly see , she interposed , how a book steeped in the bitterest pessimism can be said to elevate , however much it may instruct . 
I meant , of course , to instruct , said Mrs. Leveret , flurried by the unexpected distinction between two terms which she had supposed to be synonymous . 
It was only the fact of having a dull sister who thought her clever that saved her from a sense of hopeless inferiority . 
Do they get married in the end ? Mrs. Roby interposed . 
They who ? the Lunch Club collectively exclaimed . 
Why , the girl and man . 
It's a novel , isn't it ? I always think that's the one thing that matters . 
If they're parted it spoils my dinner . 
Mrs. Plinth and Mrs. Ballinger exchanged scandalised glances , and the latter said I should hardly advise you to read 'The Wings of Death , in that spirit . 
For my part , when there are so many books that one HAS to read , I wonder how any one can find time for those that are merely amusing . 
The beautiful part of it , Laura Glyde murmured , is surely just this that no one can tell HOW 'The Wings of Death' ends . 
What's that ? Is it poetry ? whispered Mrs. Leveret nervously to Mrs. Plinth , who , disdaining a definite reply , said coldly You should look it up . 
I always make it a point to look things up . 
Her tone added though I might easily have it done for me by the footman . 
I was about to say , Miss Van Vluyck resumed , that it must always be a question whether a book CAN instruct unless it elevates . 
Oh murmured Mrs. Leveret , now feeling herself hopelessly astray . 
the book is etched , not painted , yet one feels the colour values so intensely . 
Who is HE ? Mrs. Leveret whispered to her neighbour . 
Some one she's met abroad ? The wonderful part of the book , Mrs. Ballinger conceded , is that it may be looked at from so many points of view . 
I hear that as a study of determinism Professor Lupton ranks it with 'The Data of Ethics . 
I'm told that Osric Dane spent ten years in preparatory studies before beginning to write it , said Mrs. Plinth . 
She looks up everything verifies everything . 
It has always been my principle , as you know . 
Nothing would induce me , now , to put aside a book before I'd finished it , just because I can buy as many more as I want . 
And what do YOU think of 'The Wings of Death' ? Mrs. Roby abruptly asked her . 
It was the kind of question that might be termed out of order , and the ladies glanced at each other as though disclaiming any share in such a breach of discipline . 
They all knew that there was nothing Mrs. Plinth so much disliked as being asked her opinion of a book . 
The club had always respected this idiosyncrasy of Mrs. Plinth's . 
The meeting therefore closed with an increased sense , on the part of the other ladies , of Mrs. Roby's hopeless unfitness to be one of them . 
II Mrs. Leveret , on the eventful day , had arrived early at Mrs. Ballinger's , her volume of Appropriate Allusions in her pocket . 
, of Banquets , social or municipal , or of Baptisms , Church of England or sectarian , its student need never be at a loss for a pertinent reference . 
, and would consequently not recognise her quotations . 
Mrs. Leveret's sense of being adrift was intensified by the appearance of Mrs. Ballinger's drawing room . 
To a careless eye its aspect was unchanged but those acquainted with Mrs. Ballinger's way of arranging her books would instantly have detected the marks of recent perturbation . 
Mrs. Ballinger's province , as a member of the Lunch Club , was the Book of the Day . 
On that , whatever it was , from a novel to a treatise on experimental psychology , she was confidently , authoritatively up . 
What became of last year's books , or last week's even what she did with the subjects she had previously professed with equal authority no one had ever yet discovered . 
Her mind was an hotel where facts came and went like transient lodgers , without leaving their address behind , and frequently without paying for their board . 
But to day a number of maturer looking volumes were adroitly mingled with the primeurs of the press Karl Marx jostled Professor Bergson , and the Confessions of St . 
Mrs. Leveret felt like a passenger on an ocean steamer who is told that there is no immediate danger , but that she had better put on her life belt . 
It was a relief to be roused from these forebodings by Miss Van Vluyck's arrival . 
I hardly know , she said somewhat nervously . 
Perhaps we had better leave that to circumstances . 
Circumstances ? said Miss Van Vluyck drily . 
That means , I suppose , that Laura Glyde will take the floor as usual , and we shall be deluged with literature . 
Philanthropy and statistics were Miss Van Vluyck's province , and she naturally resented any tendency to divert their guest's attention from these topics . 
Mrs. Plinth at this moment appeared . 
Literature ? she protested in a tone of remonstrance . 
But this is perfectly unexpected . 
I understood we were to talk of Osric Dane's novel . 
Mrs. Ballinger winced at the discrimination , but let it pass . 
We can hardly make that our chief subject at least not TOO intentionally , she suggested . 
Of course we can let our talk DRIFT in that direction but we ought to have some other topic as an introduction , and that is what I wanted to consult you about . 
The fact is , we know so little of Osric Dane's tastes and interests that it is difficult to make any special preparation . 
It may be difficult , said Mrs. Plinth with decision , but it is absolutely necessary . 
I know what that happy go lucky principle leads to . 
As I told one of my nieces the other day , there are certain emergencies for which a lady should always be prepared . 
All I ask is that I should know beforehand what is to be talked about then I feel sure of being able to say the proper thing . 
I quite agree with you , Mrs. Ballinger anxiously assented but And at that instant , heralded by the fluttered parlour maid , Osric Dane appeared upon the threshold . 
Mrs. Leveret told her sister afterward that she had known at a glance what was coming . 
She saw that Osric Dane was not going to meet them half way . 
That distinguished personage had indeed entered with an air of compulsion not calculated to promote the easy exercise of hospitality . 
She looked as though she were about to be photographed for a new edition of her books . 
We have a great many representative people , she said , in the tone of one who speaks for her order . 
Osric Dane turned to her thoughtfully . 
What do they represent ? she asked . 
Mrs. Plinth's constitutional dislike to being questioned was intensified by her sense of unpreparedness and her reproachful glance passed the question on to Mrs. Ballinger . 
Why , said that lady , glancing in turn at the other members , as a community I hope it is not too much to say that we stand for culture . 
For art Miss Glyde eagerly interjected . 
For art and literature , Mrs. Ballinger emended . 
And for sociology , I trust , snapped Miss Van Vluyck . 
The object of our little club , Mrs. Ballinger continued , is to concentrate the highest tendencies of Hillbridge to centralise and focus its complex intellectual effort . 
This was felt to be so happy that the ladies drew an almost audible breath of relief . 
We aspire , the President went on , to stand for what is highest in art , literature and ethics . 
Osric Dane again turned to her . 
What ethics ? she asked . 
A tremor of apprehension encircled the room . 
None of the ladies required any preparation to pronounce on a question of morals but when they were called ethics it was different . 
Yes , said Miss Van Vluyck , with a sudden resolve to carry the war into the enemy's camp . 
We are so anxious to know the exact purpose you had in mind in writing your wonderful book . 
You will find , Mrs. Plinth interposed , that we are not superficial readers . 
ARE you not primarily plastic ? I have always maintained , Mrs. Ballinger interposed , that you represent the purely objective method Osric Dane helped herself critically to coffee . 
How do you define objective ? she then inquired . 
There was a flurried pause before Laura Glyde intensely murmured In reading YOU we don't define , we feel . 
The cerebellum , she remarked , is not infrequently the seat of the literary emotions . 
And she took a second lump of sugar . 
The sting that this remark was vaguely felt to conceal was almost neutralised by the satisfaction of being addressed in such technical language . 
Ah , the cerebellum , said Miss Van Vluyck complacently . 
The Club took a course in psychology last winter . 
Which psychology ? asked Osric Dane . 
There was an agonising pause , during which each member of the Club secretly deplored the distressing inefficiency of the others . 
Only Mrs. Roby went on placidly sipping her chartreuse . 
In Xingu ? she gently prompted . 
A thrill ran through the other members . 
They exchanged confused glances , and then , with one accord , turned a gaze of mingled relief and interrogation on their unexpected rescuer . 
The expression of each denoted a different phase of the same emotion . 
Osric Dane's change of countenance was no less striking than that of her entertainers . 
It was as though her countenance had so long been set in an expression of unchallenged superiority that the muscles had stiffened , and refused to obey her orders . 
Xingu she murmured , as if seeking in her turn to gain time . 
Mrs. Roby continued to press her . 
Knowing how engrossing the subject is , you will understand how it happens that the Club has let everything else go to the wall for the moment . 
Since we took up Xingu I might almost say were it not for your books that nothing else seems to us worth remembering . 
Osric Dane's stern features were darkened rather than lit up by an uneasy smile . 
I am glad to hear there is one exception , she gave out between narrowed lips . 
It was an IT , then the assurance sped like fire through the parched minds of the other members . 
In their eagerness to gain the least little clue to Xingu they almost forgot the joy of assisting at the discomfiture of Mrs. Dane . 
The latter reddened nervously under her antagonist's direct assault . 
May I ask , she faltered out in an embarrassed tone , to which of my books you refer ? Mrs. Roby did not falter . 
That's just what I want you to tell us because , though I was present , I didn't actually take part . 
But Mrs. Roby explained herself gaily At the discussion , of course . 
And so we're dreadfully anxious to know just how it was that you went into the Xingu . 
Then Mrs. Dane gave expression to their inmost dread by saying sharply Ah you say THE Xingu , do you ? Mrs. Roby smiled undauntedly . 
It IS a shade pedantic , isn't it ? Personally , I always drop the article but I don't know how the other members feel about it . 
No immediate reply seemed to occur to Mrs. Dane , and Mrs. Ballinger gathered courage to say Surely every one must feel that about Xingu . 
Mrs. Plinth came to her support with a heavy murmur of assent , and Laura Glyde breathed emotionally I have known cases where it has changed a whole life . 
It has done me worlds of good , Mrs. Leveret interjected , seeming to herself to remember that she had either taken it or read it in the winter before . 
Of course , Mrs. Roby admitted , the difficulty is that one must give up so much time to it . 
I can't imagine , said Miss Van Vluyck tartly , grudging the time given to such a subject . 
And it isn't easy to skip . 
I never skip , said Mrs. Plinth dogmatically . 
Ah , it's dangerous to , in Xingu . 
Even at the start there are places where one can't . 
One must just wade through . 
I should hardly call it WADING , said Mrs. Ballinger sarcastically . 
Mrs. Roby sent her a look of interest . 
Ah you always found it went swimmingly ? Mrs. Ballinger hesitated . 
Of course there are difficult passages , she conceded modestly . 
Yes some are not at all clear even , Mrs. Roby added , if one is familiar with the original . 
As I suppose you are ? Osric Dane interposed , suddenly fixing her with a look of challenge . 
Mrs. Roby met it by a deprecating smile . 
Oh , it's really not difficult up to a certain point though some of the branches are very little known , and it's almost impossible to get at the source . 
Have you ever tried ? Mrs. Plinth enquired , still distrustful of Mrs. Roby's thoroughness . 
A shudder ran around the room . 
But the most remarkable result of Mrs. Roby's words was the effect they produced on the Lunch Club's distinguished guest . 
If Osric Dane had not enough self respect to resent Mrs. Roby's flippancy , at least the Lunch Club would do so in the person of its President . 
Mrs. Ballinger laid her hand on Mrs. Roby's arm . 
I refer , of course , to 'The Wings of Death . 
Osric Dane's expression became as bored , though not as haughty , as when her work had been previously mentioned . 
But before she could respond to Mrs. Ballinger's request , Mrs. Roby had risen from her seat , and was pulling her veil down over her frivolous nose . 
I'm so sorry , she said , advancing toward her hostess with outstretched hand , but before Mrs. Dane begins I think I'd better run away . 
Unluckily , as you know , I haven't read her books , so I should be at a terrible disadvantage among you all and besides , I've an engagement to play bridge . 
III The incident had been so rapid that the door closed on the departing pair before the other members had had time to understand what was happening . 
I said from the first that we ought to have had a subject ready . 
It's what always happens when you're unprepared . 
Now if we'd only got up Xingu The slowness of Mrs. Plinth's mental processes was always allowed for by the Club but this instance of it was too much for Mrs. Ballinger's equanimity . 
Why , it was the fact of our knowing so much more about it than she did unprepared though we were that made Osric Dane so furious . 
It may have made Osric Dane furious , but at least it made her civil . 
I am glad we were able to show her , added Miss Van Vluyck , that a broad and up to date culture is not confined to the great intellectual centres . 
This increased the satisfaction of the other members , and they began to forget their wrath against Osric Dane in the pleasure of having contributed to her defeat . 
Miss Van Vluyck thoughtfully rubbed her spectacles . 
What surprised me most , she continued , was that Fanny Roby should be so up on Xingu . 
And this was felt by the other members to be a graceful way of cancelling once for all the Club's obligation to Mrs. Roby . 
Even Mrs. Leveret took courage to speed a timid shaft of irony I fancy Osric Dane hardly expected to take a lesson in Xingu at Hillbridge ! Mrs. Ballinger smiled . 
Mrs. Ballinger , who was already beginning to feel as if she had launched at Osric Dane the retort which had just occurred to her , looked ironically at Mrs. Plinth . 
May I ask why ? she enquired . 
It's a part of the subject I never studied myself , she concluded lamely . 
Nor I , said Mrs. Ballinger . 
Laura Glyde bent toward them with widened eyes . 
And yet it seems doesn't it ? the part that is fullest of an esoteric fascination ? I don't know on what you base that , said Miss Van Vluyck argumentatively . 
I'm quite of your opinion , Miss Van Vluyck came briskly to her support on condition , that is , that all grossness of language is avoided . 
Mrs. Plinth had not yet given her adhesion . 
I hardly see , she began , what benefit is to be derived from investigating such peculiar customs But Mrs. Ballinger's patience had reached the extreme limit of tension . 
She peered furtively about the room and lowered her commanding tones to ask Have you got a copy ? A a copy ? stammered Mrs. Ballinger . 
She was aware that the other members were looking at her expectantly , and that this answer was inadequate , so she supported it by asking another question . 
A copy of what ? Her companions bent their expectant gaze on Mrs. Plinth , who , in turn , appeared less sure of herself than usual . 
Why , of of the book , she explained . 
What book ? snapped Miss Van Vluyck , almost as sharply as Osric Dane . 
Mrs. Ballinger looked at Laura Glyde , whose eyes were interrogatively fixed on Mrs. Leveret . 
The fact of being deferred to was so new to the latter that it filled her with an insane temerity . 
Why , Xingu , of course ! she exclaimed . 
I should think NOT ! exclaimed Mrs. Plinth . 
It IS a book , then ? said Miss Van Vluyck . 
This again threw the company into disarray , and Mrs. Ballinger , with an impatient sigh , rejoined Why there IS a book naturally . 
Then why did Miss Glyde call it a religion ? Laura Glyde started up . 
A religion ? I never Yes , you did , Miss Van Vluyck insisted you spoke of rites and Mrs. Plinth said it was a custom . 
Miss Glyde was evidently making a desperate effort to reinforce her statement but accuracy of detail was not her strongest point . 
Really , it is too bad that we should not be able to talk the matter over quietly among ourselves . 
Personally , I think that if one goes into Xingu at all Oh , so do I ! cried Miss Glyde . 
And I don't see how one can avoid doing so , if one wishes to keep up with the Thought of the Day Mrs. Leveret uttered an exclamation of relief . 
There that's it ! she interposed . 
What's it ? the President curtly took her up . 
Why it's a a Thought I mean a philosophy . 
This seemed to bring a certain relief to Mrs. Ballinger and Laura Glyde , but Miss Van Vluyck said dogmatically Excuse me if I tell you that you're all mistaken . 
Xingu happens to be a language . 
A language ! the Lunch Club cried . 
Oh , clearness and Fanny Roby ! Mrs. Ballinger shrugged . 
I daresay we shall find she was mistaken on almost every point . 
Why not look it up ? said Mrs. Plinth . 
As a rule this recurrent suggestion of Mrs. Plinth's was ignored in the heat of discussion , and only resorted to afterward in the privacy of each member's home . 
Oh , that's not the kind of thing we want ! exclaimed Miss Van Vluyck . 
There was a moment of painful suspense while Miss Van Vluyck rubbed her spectacles , adjusted them , and turned to Z and a murmur of surprise when she said It isn't here . 
I suppose , said Mrs. Plinth , it's not fit to be put in a book of reference . 
Oh , nonsense ! exclaimed Mrs. Ballinger . 
Well , have you found it ? Mrs. Ballinger enquired , after a considerable delay . 
I've found it , said Miss Van Vluyck in a queer voice . 
Mrs. Plinth hastily interposed I beg you won't read it aloud if there's anything offensive . 
Miss Van Vluyck , without answering , continued her silent scrutiny . 
Well , what IS it ? exclaimed Laura Glyde excitedly . 
DO tell us ! urged Mrs. Leveret , feeling that she would have something awful to tell her sister . 
Miss Van Vluyck pushed the volume aside and turned slowly toward the expectant group . 
A RIVER ? Yes in Brazil . 
Isn't that where she's been living ? Who ? Fanny Roby ? Oh , but you must be mistaken . 
You've been reading the wrong thing , Mrs. Ballinger exclaimed , leaning over her to seize the volume . 
It's the only XINGU in the Encyclopaedia and she HAS been living in Brazil , Miss Van Vluyck persisted . 
Yes her brother has a consulship there , Mrs. Leveret eagerly interposed . 
But it's too ridiculous ! I we why we ALL remember studying Xingu last year or the year before last , Mrs. Ballinger stammered . 
I thought I did when YOU said so , Laura Glyde avowed . 
I said so ? cried Mrs. Ballinger . 
You said it had crowded everything else out of your mind . 
Well , YOU said it had changed your whole life ! For that matter , Miss Van Vluyck said she had never grudged the time she'd given it . 
Mrs. Plinth interposed I made it clear that I knew nothing whatever of the original . 
Mrs. Ballinger broke off the dispute with a groan . 
Miss Van Vluyck had repossessed herself of the Encyclopaedia , and restored her spectacles to a nose reddened by excitement . 
The upper course of the Xingu is auriferous and fed by numerous branches . 
Its source was first discovered in by the German explorer von den Steinen , after a difficult and dangerous expedition through a region inhabited by tribes still in the Stone Age of culture . 
The ladies received this communication in a state of stupefied silence from which Mrs. Leveret was the first to rally . 
She certainly DID speak of its having branches . 
The word seemed to snap the last thread of their incredulity . 
And of its great length , gasped Mrs. Ballinger . 
She said it was awfully deep , and you couldn't skip you just had to wade through , Miss Glyde subjoined . 
The idea worked its way more slowly through Mrs. Plinth's compact resistances . 
How could there be anything improper about a river ? she inquired . 
Improper ? Why , what she said about the source that it was corrupt ? Not corrupt , but hard to get at , Laura Glyde corrected . 
Some one who'd been there had told her so . 
I daresay it was the explorer himself doesn't it say the expedition was dangerous ? 'Difficult and dangerous , read Miss Van Vluyck . 
Mrs. Ballinger pressed her hands to her throbbing temples . 
There's nothing she said that wouldn't apply to a river to this river ! She swung about excitedly to the other members . 
At length Mrs. Plinth , after visibly labouring with the problem , said in a heavy tone Osric Dane was taken in too . 
Mrs. Leveret took courage at this . 
Perhaps that's what Mrs. Roby did it for . 
She said Osric Dane was a brute , and she may have wanted to give her a lesson . 
It was hardly worth while to do it at our expense . 
At least , said Miss Glyde with a touch of bitterness , she succeeded in interesting her , which was more than we did . 
What chance had we ? rejoined Mrs. Ballinger . 
Mrs. Roby monopolised her from the first . 
And THAT , I've no doubt , was her purpose to give Osric Dane a false impression of her own standing in the Club . 
She would hesitate at nothing to attract attention we all know how she took in poor Professor Foreland . 
She actually makes him give bridge teas every Thursday , Mrs. Leveret piped up . 
Laura Glyde struck her hands together . 
This possibility seemed too preposterous to be admitted . 
She would hardly dare , said Miss Van Vluyck , confess the imposture to Osric Dane . 
I'm not so sure I thought I saw her make a sign as she left . 
This reminder , far from mitigating the wrath of the other members , gave it a stronger impetus . 
Yes and that's exactly what they're both laughing over now , said Laura Glyde ironically . 
Mrs. Plinth stood up and gathered her expensive furs about her monumental form . 
Miss Van Vluyck closed the Encyclopaedia and proceeded to button herself into her jacket . 
My time is really too valuable she began . 
I fancy we are all of one mind , said Mrs. Ballinger , looking searchingly at Mrs. Leveret , who looked at the others . 
I always deprecate anything like a scandal Mrs. Plinth continued . 
She has been the cause of one to day ! exclaimed Miss Glyde . 
Mrs. Leveret moaned I don't see how she COULD ! and Miss Van Vluyck said , picking up her note book Some women stop at nothing . 
, I should have felt that I owed it to myself either to ask for Mrs. Roby's resignation or to offer mine . 
Oh , Mrs. Plinth gasped the Lunch Club . 
A deep silence followed this unexpected outbreak of Mrs. Plinth's long stored resentment . 
The height of his glory that was what the women called it . 
I can hear Mrs. Gideon Thwing his last Chicago sitter deploring his unaccountable abdication . 
Of course it's going to send the value of my picture 'way up but I don't think of that , Mr. Rickham the loss to Arrt is all I think of . 
The word , on Mrs. Thwing's lips , multiplied its RS as though they were reflected in an endless vista of mirrors . 
And it was not only the Mrs. Thwings who mourned . 
Poor Jack Gisburn ! The women had made him it was fitting that they should mourn him . 
Among his own sex fewer regrets were heard , and in his own trade hardly a murmur . 
And so his resolve being apparently irrevocable the discussion gradually died out , and , as Mrs. Thwing had predicted , the price of Gisburns went up . 
On reflection , it really was a tempting problem . 
To accuse his wife would have been too easy his fair sitters had been denied the solace of saying that Mrs. Gisburn had dragged him down . 
For Mrs. Gisburn as such had not existed till nearly a year after Jack's resolve had been taken . 
I found the couple at tea beneath their palm trees and Mrs. Gisburn's welcome was so genial that , in the ensuing weeks , I claimed it frequently . 
It was not that my hostess was interesting on that point I could have given Miss Croft the fullest reassurance . 
It was just because she was NOT interesting if I may be pardoned the bull that I found her so . 
For Jack , all his life , had been surrounded by interesting women they had fostered his art , it had been reared in the hot house of their adulation . 
I have mentioned that Mrs. Gisburn was rich and it was immediately perceptible that her husband was extracting from this circumstance a delicate but substantial satisfaction . 
To the latter , I must add , he remained relatively indifferent but he was buying Renaissance bronzes and eighteenth century pictures with a discrimination that bespoke the amplest resources . 
Poor Jack ! It had always been his fate to have women say such things of him the fact should be set down in extenuation . 
What struck me now was that , for the first time , he resented the tone . 
It was his own absurdity he seemed to be wincing under his own attitude as an object for garlands and incense . 
I glanced after him , struck by his last word . 
Victor Grindle was , in fact , becoming the man of the moment as Jack himself , one might put it , had been the man of the hour . 
The younger artist was said to have formed himself at my friend's feet , and I wondered if a tinge of jealousy underlay the latter's mysterious abdication . 
But no for it was not till after that event that the rose Dubarry drawing rooms had begun to display their Grindles . 
I turned to Mrs. Gisburn , who had lingered to give a lump of sugar to her spaniel in the dining room . 
Why HAS he chucked painting ? I asked abruptly . 
She raised her eyebrows with a hint of good humoured surprise . 
Oh , he doesn't HAVE to now , you know and I want him to enjoy himself , she said quite simply . 
I looked about the spacious white panelled room , with its famille verte vases repeating the tones of the pale damask curtains , and its eighteenth century pastels in delicate faded frames . 
Has he chucked his pictures too ? I haven't seen a single one in the house . 
A slight shade of constraint crossed Mrs. Gisburn's open countenance . 
It's his ridiculous modesty , you know . 
He says they're not fit to have about he's sent them all away except one my portrait and that I have to keep upstairs . 
His ridiculous modesty Jack's modesty about his pictures ? My curiosity was growing like the bean stalk . 
I said persuasively to my hostess I must really see your portrait , you know . 
She glanced out almost timorously at the terrace where her husband , lounging in a hooded chair , had lit a cigar and drawn the Russian deerhound's head between his knees . 
In the dimmest corner of her boudoir , amid a profusion of delicate and distinguished objects , hung one of the familiar oval canvases , in the inevitable garlanded frame . 
I had it over the mantel piece , but he wouldn't let it stay . 
It's the last he painted , you know , Mrs. Gisburn said with pardonable pride . 
The last but one , she corrected herself but the other doesn't count , because he destroyed it . 
Destroyed it ? I was about to follow up this clue when I heard a footstep and saw Jack himself on the threshold . 
His wife glanced at him deprecatingly , but his eyes travelled past her to the portrait . 
Mr. Rickham wanted to see it , she began , as if excusing herself . 
He shrugged his shoulders , still smiling . 
Oh , Rickham found me out long ago , he said lightly then , passing his arm through mine Come and see the rest of the house . 
And whenever my wonder paid the expected tribute he said , throwing out his chest a little Yes , I really don't see how people manage to live without that . 
Well it was just the end one might have foreseen for him . 
This is my own lair , he said , leading me into a dark plain room at the end of the florid vista . 
The fact brought home to me the absolute finality of Jack's break with his old life . 
Don't you ever dabble with paint any more ? I asked , still looking about for a trace of such activity . 
Never , he said briefly . 
Or water colour or etching ? His confident eyes grew dim , and his cheeks paled a little under their handsome sunburn . 
Never think of it , my dear fellow any more than if I'd never touched a brush . 
And his tone told me in a flash that he never thought of anything else . 
Oh , by Jove ! I said . 
It was a sketch of a donkey an old tired donkey , standing in the rain under a wall . 
By Jove a Stroud ! I cried . 
He was silent but I felt him close behind me , breathing a little quickly . 
What a wonder ! Made with a dozen lines but on everlasting foundations . 
You lucky chap , where did you get it ? He answered slowly Mrs. Stroud gave it to me . 
Ah I didn't know you even knew the Strouds . 
He was such an inflexible hermit . 
She sent for me to paint him when he was dead . 
And at the moment I was THE fashionable painter . 
Ah , poor Stroud as you say . 
Was THAT his history ? That was his history . 
She believed in him , gloried in him or thought she did . 
But she couldn't bear not to have all the drawing rooms with her . 
She couldn't bear the fact that , on varnishing days , one could always get near enough to see his pictures . 
Poor woman ! She's just a fragment groping for other fragments . 
Stroud is the only whole I ever knew . 
You ever knew ? But you just said Gisburn had a curious smile in his eyes . 
Oh , I knew him , and he knew me only it happened after he was dead . 
I dropped my voice instinctively . 
When she sent for you ? Yes quite insensible to the irony . 
She wanted him vindicated and by me ! He laughed again , and threw back his head to look up at the sketch of the donkey . 
There were days when I couldn't look at that thing couldn't face it . 
But I forced myself to put it here and now it's cured me cured me . 
That's the reason why I don't dabble any more , my dear Rickham or rather Stroud himself is the reason . 
For the first time my idle curiosity about my companion turned into a serious desire to understand him better . 
I wish you'd tell me how it happened , I said . 
He stood looking up at the sketch , and twirling between his fingers a cigarette he had forgotten to light . 
Suddenly he turned toward me . 
I'd rather like to tell you because I've always suspected you of loathing my work . 
I made a deprecating gesture , which he negatived with a good humoured shrug . 
There make yourself comfortable and here are the cigars you like . 
He placed them at my elbow and continued to wander up and down the room , stopping now and then beneath the picture . 
How it happened ? I can tell you in five minutes and it didn't take much longer to happen . 
I can remember now how surprised and pleased I was when I got Mrs. Stroud's note . 
I remember getting off a prodigious phrase about the honour being MINE oh , I was princely , my dear Rickham ! I was posing to myself like one of my own sitters . 
Then I was taken up and left alone with him . 
I had sent all my traps in advance , and I had only to set up the easel and get to work . 
I had met him once or twice , years before , and thought him insignificant and dingy . 
Now I saw that he was superb . 
I was glad at first , with a merely aesthetic satisfaction glad to have my hand on such a 'subject . 
Then his strange life likeness began to affect me queerly as I blocked the head in I felt as if he were watching me do it . 
That exasperated me still more . 
The secret ? Why , I had a secret worth twenty of his ! I dashed at the canvas furiously , and tried some of my bravura tricks . 
But they failed me , they crumbled . 
I saw that he wasn't watching the showy bits I couldn't distract his attention he just kept his eyes on the hard passages between . 
Those were the ones I had always shirked , or covered up with some lying paint . 
And how he saw through my lies ! I looked up again , and caught sight of that sketch of the donkey hanging on the wall near his bed . 
Just a note ! But it tells his whole history . 
There are years of patient scornful persistence in every line . 
A man who had swum with the current could never have learned that mighty up stream stroke . 
I turned back to my work , and went on groping and muddling then I looked at the donkey again . 
I saw that , when Stroud laid in the first stroke , he knew just what the end would be . 
He had possessed his subject , absorbed it , recreated it . 
When had I done that with any of my things ? They hadn't been born of me I had just adopted them . 
Hang it , Rickham , with that face watching me I couldn't do another stroke . 
The plain truth was , I didn't know where to put it I HAD NEVER KNOWN . 
Only , with my sitters and my public , a showy splash of colour covered up the fact I just threw paint into their faces . 
Well , paint was the one medium those dead eyes could see through see straight to the tottering foundations underneath . 
The next greatest thing was to see that I couldn't and that grace was given me . 
I packed up my traps , and went down and told Mrs. Stroud . 
Of course I didn't tell her THAT it would have been Greek to her . 
I simply said I couldn't paint him , that I was too moved . 
She rather liked the idea she's so romantic ! It was that that made her give me the donkey . 
Yes , it was I who started Grindle I told Mrs. Stroud he was the 'coming' man , and she told somebody else , and so it got to be true . 
And he painted Stroud without wincing and she hung the picture among her husband's things . 
He flung himself down in the arm chair near mine , laid back his head , and clasping his arms beneath it , looked up at the picture above the chimney piece . 
I like to fancy that Stroud himself would have given it to me , if he'd been able to say what he thought that day . 
And , in answer to a question I put half mechanically Begin again ? he flashed out . 
When the one thing that brings me anywhere near him is that I knew enough to leave off ? He stood up and laid his hand on my shoulder with a laugh . 
The End of The Verdict THE RECKONING August , I The marriage law of the new dispensation will be THOU SHALT NOT BE UNFAITHFUL TO THYSELF . 
The talks had begun by accident . 
Westall's ideas were known to be advanced , but hitherto their advance had not been in the direction of publicity . 
He had been , in his wife's opinion , almost pusillanimously careful not to let his personal views endanger his professional standing . 
The Herbert Van Siderens were a couple who subsisted , socially , on the fact that they had a studio . 
It was in quest of such aid that she had seized on Westall , coaxing him , somewhat to his wife's surprise , into a flattered participation in her fraud . 
The Van Sideren set were tired of the conventional color scheme in art and conduct . 
Julia Westall had long had her own views on the immorality of marriage she might indeed have claimed her husband as a disciple . 
That was in the first burst of propagandism , when , womanlike , she wanted to turn her disobedience into a law . 
In the first place , the girl had no business to be there . 
It was horrid Mrs. Westall found herself slipping back into the old feminine vocabulary simply horrid to think of a young girl's being allowed to listen to such talk . 
Julia Westall felt in a hot helpless way that something ought to be done that some one ought to speak to the girl's mother . 
And just then Una glided up . 
Oh , Mrs. Westall , how beautiful it was ! Una fixed her with large limpid eyes . 
You believe it all , I suppose ? she asked with seraphic gravity . 
All what , my dear child ? The girl shone on her . 
About the higher life the freer expansion of the individual the law of fidelity to one's self , she glibly recited . 
Mrs. Westall , to her own wonder , blushed a deep and burning blush . 
My dear Una , she said , you don't in the least understand what it's all about ! Miss Van Sideren stared , with a slowly answering blush . 
Don't YOU , then ? she murmured . 
Not always or altogether ! But I should like some tea , please . 
Una led her to the corner where innocent beverages were dispensed . 
As Julia received her cup she scrutinized the girl more carefully . 
It was not such a girlish face , after all definite lines were forming under the rosy haze of youth . 
She reflected that Una must be six and twenty , and wondered why she had not married . 
A nice stock of ideas she would have as her dower ! If THEY were to be a part of the modern girl's trousseau Mrs. Westall caught herself up with a start . 
It was as though some one else had been speaking a stranger who had borrowed her own voice she felt herself the dupe of some fantastic mental ventriloquism . 
She met them now , but only , as she felt , in transit they included her parenthetically in a larger flight . 
She followed the flight , and it carried her to a corner to which Una had withdrawn one of the palmy nooks to which Mrs. Van Sideren attributed the success of her Saturdays . 
Westall , a moment later , had overtaken his look , and found a place at the girl's side . 
Julia winced at her own definition of the smile . 
On the way home , in the deserted winter dusk , Westall surprised his wife by a sudden boyish pressure of her arm . 
Did I open their eyes a bit ? Did I tell them what you wanted me to ? he asked gaily . 
Almost unconsciously , she let her arm slip from his . 
What I wanted ? Why , haven't you all this time ? She caught the honest wonder of his tone . 
I somehow fancied you'd rather blamed me for not talking more openly before You've made me feel , at times , that I was sacrificing principles to expediency . 
She paused a moment over her reply then she asked quietly What made you decide not to any longer ? She felt again the vibration of a faint surprise . 
Why the wish to please you ! he answered , almost too simply . 
I wish you would not go on , then , she said abruptly . 
He stopped in his quick walk , and she felt his stare through the darkness . 
Not go on ? Call a hansom , please . 
I'm tired , broke from her with a sudden rush of physical weariness . 
Instantly his solicitude enveloped her . 
The room had been infernally hot and then that confounded cigarette smoke he had noticed once or twice that she looked pale she mustn't come to another Saturday . 
He put her in the hansom , and her hand stole into his in the darkness . 
A tear or two rose , and she let them fall . 
It was so delicious to cry over imaginary troubles ! That evening , after dinner , he surprised her by reverting to the subject of his talk . 
You seem not to have cared for what I said this afternoon . 
Did I put the case badly ? No you put it very well . 
I don't think I care to hear such things discussed in public . 
I don't understand you , he exclaimed . 
Again the feeling that his surprise was genuine gave an air of obliquity to her own attitude . 
She was not sure that she understood herself . 
Won't you explain ? he said with a tinge of impatience . 
Her eyes wandered about the familiar drawing room which had been the scene of so many of their evening confidences . 
The prints , the flowers , the subdued tones of the old porcelains , seemed to typify a superficial refinement that had no relation to the deeper significances of life . 
Suddenly she heard her husband repeating his question . 
I don't know that I can explain , she faltered . 
He drew his arm chair forward so that he faced her across the hearth . 
The light of a reading lamp fell on his finely drawn face , which had a kind of surface sensitiveness akin to the surface refinement of its setting . 
Is it that you no longer believe in our ideas ? he asked . 
In our ideas ? The ideas I am trying to teach . 
The ideas you and I are supposed to stand for . 
The ideas on which our marriage was founded . 
The blood rushed to her face . 
Of course I still believe in our ideas ! she exclaimed . 
Then I repeat that I don't understand . 
It was a part of your theory that the greatest possible publicity should be given to our view of marriage . 
Have you changed your mind in that respect ? She hesitated . 
It depends on circumstances on the public one is addressing . 
The set of people that the Van Siderens get about them don't care for the truth or falseness of a doctrine . 
They are attracted simply by its novelty . 
And yet it was in just such a set of people that you and I met , and learned the truth from each other . 
In what way ? I was not a young girl , to begin with . 
I fancy Miss Van Sideren is quite capable of taking care of herself . 
No girl knows how to take care of herself till it's too late . 
She made an impatient gesture . 
How should you like to marry that kind of a girl ? Immensely if she were my kind of girl in other respects . 
She took up the argument at another point . 
You are quite mistaken if you think such talk does not affect young girls . 
Una was in a state of the most absurd exaltation She broke off , wondering why she had spoken . 
Westall reopened a magazine which he had laid aside at the beginning of their discussion . 
What you tell me is immensely flattering to my oratorical talent but I fear you overrate its effect . 
I can assure you that Miss Van Sideren doesn't have to have her thinking done for her . 
She's quite capable of doing it herself . 
You seem very familiar with her mental processes ! flashed unguardedly from his wife . 
He looked up quietly from the pages he was cutting . 
I should like to be , he answered . 
II If there be a distinction in being misunderstood , it was one denied to Julia Westall when she left her first husband . 
Every one was ready to excuse and even to defend her . 
The world she adorned agreed that John Arment was impossible , and hostesses gave a sigh of relief at the thought that it would no longer be necessary to ask him to dine . 
There had been no scandal connected with the divorce neither side had accused the other of the offence euphemistically described as statutory . 
Even Mrs. Arment's second marriage did not make traditional morality stir in its sleep . 
Though Clement Westall was acknowledged to be a rising lawyer , it was generally felt that his fortunes would not rise as rapidly as his reputation . 
The Westalls would probably always have to live quietly and go out to dinner in cabs . 
The only difference was that , to his wife , his impossibility was something deeper than a social disqualification . 
John Arment was impossible but the sting of his impossibility lay in the fact that he made it impossible for those about him to be other than himself . 
This might seem to imply a deliberate selfishness but there was nothing deliberate about Arment . 
He was as instinctive as an animal or a child . 
It was this childish element in his nature which sometimes for a moment unsettled his wife's estimate of him . 
She so fully understood her own reasons for leaving him that she disliked to think they were not as comprehensible to her husband . 
She was haunted , in her analytic moments , by the look of perplexity , too inarticulate for words , with which he had acquiesced to her explanations . 
These moments were rare with her , however . 
Her marriage had been too concrete a misery to be surveyed philosophically . 
If she had been unhappy for complex reasons , the unhappiness was as real as though it had been uncomplicated . 
Soul is more bruisable than flesh , and Julia was wounded in every fibre of her spirit . 
A sense of having been decoyed by some world old conspiracy into this bondage of body and soul filled her with despair . 
If marriage was the slow life long acquittal of a debt contracted in ignorance , then marriage was a crime against human nature . 
It was in the first heat of her moral indignation that she had met Clement Westall . 
She had seen at once that he was interested , and had fought off the discovery , dreading any influence that should draw her back into the bondage of conventional relations . 
To ward off the peril she had , with an almost crude precipitancy , revealed her opinions to him . 
To her surprise , she found that he shared them . 
She was attracted by the frankness of a suitor who , while pressing his suit , admitted that he did not believe in marriage . 
Her worst audacities did not seem to surprise him he had thought out all that she had felt , and they had reached the same conclusion . 
People grew at varying rates , and the yoke that was an easy fit for the one might soon become galling to the other . 
That was what divorce was for the readjustment of personal relations . 
As soon as their necessarily transitive nature was recognized they would gain in dignity as well as in harmony . 
There would be no farther need of the ignoble concessions and connivances , the perpetual sacrifice of personal delicacy and moral pride , by means of which imperfect marriages were now held together . 
Each partner to the contract would be on his mettle , forced to live up to the highest standard of self development , on pain of losing the other's respect and affection . 
The low nature could no longer drag the higher down , but must struggle to rise , or remain alone on its inferior level . 
The new adultery was unfaithfulness to self . 
It was , as Westall had just reminded her , on this understanding that they had married . 
This , as Julia now reviewed the past , she perceived to have been her theoretical attitude toward marriage . 
The new law was not for them , but for the disunited creatures forced into a mockery of union . 
The gospel she had felt called on to proclaim had no bearing on her own case . 
She sent for the doctor and told him she was sure she needed a nerve tonic . 
She took the nerve tonic diligently , but it failed to act as a sedative to her fears . 
She did not know what she feared but that made her anxiety the more pervasive . 
Her husband had not reverted to the subject of his Saturday talks . 
He was unusually kind and considerate , with a softening of his quick manner , a touch of shyness in his consideration , that sickened her with new fears . 
The week passed slowly , vacantly , like a prolonged Sunday . 
On Saturday the morning post brought a note from Mrs. Van Sideren . 
She opened the drawing room door and called him back to deliver the message . 
He glanced at the note and tossed it aside . 
What a bore ! I shall have to cut my game of racquets . 
Well , I suppose it can't be helped . 
Will you write and say it's all right ? Julia hesitated a moment , her hand stiffening on the chair back against which she leaned . 
You mean to go on with these talks ? she asked . 
I why not ? he returned and this time it struck her that his surprise was not quite unfeigned . 
The discovery helped her to find words . 
You said you had started them with the idea of pleasing me Well ? I told you last week that they didn't please me . 
Last week ? Oh He seemed to make an effort of memory . 
I thought you were nervous then you sent for the doctor the next day . 
It was not the doctor I needed it was your assurance My assurance ? Suddenly she felt the floor fail under her . 
She sank into the chair with a choking throat , her words , her reasons slipping away from her like straws down a whirling flood . 
Clement , she cried , isn't it enough for you to know that I hate it ? He turned to close the door behind them then he walked toward her and sat down . 
What is it that you hate ? he asked gently . 
She had made a desperate effort to rally her routed argument . 
I can't bear to have you speak as if as if our marriage were like the other kind the wrong kind . 
You HAVE ceased to take this view , then ? he said as she broke off . 
You no longer believe that husbands and wives ARE justified in separating under such conditions ? Under such conditions ? she stammered . 
Yes I still believe that but how can we judge for others ? What can we know of the circumstances ? He interrupted her . 
I thought it was a fundamental article of our creed that the special circumstances produced by marriage were not to interfere with the full assertion of individual liberty . 
I thought that was your reason for leaving Arment . 
She flushed to the forehead . 
It was not like him to give a personal turn to the argument . 
It was my reason , she said simply . 
Well , then why do you refuse to recognize its validity now ? I don't I don't I only say that one can't judge for others . 
He made an impatient movement . 
This is mere hair splitting . 
What you mean is that , the doctrine having served your purpose when you needed it , you now repudiate it . 
Well , she exclaimed , flushing again , what if I do ? What does it matter to us ? Westall rose from his chair . 
He was excessively pale , and stood before his wife with something of the formality of a stranger . 
It matters to me , he said in a low voice , because I do NOT repudiate it . 
Well ? And because I had intended to invoke it as He paused and drew his breath deeply . 
She sat silent , almost deafened by her heart beats . 
as a complete justification of the course I am about to take . 
What course is that ? she asked . 
I mean to claim the fulfilment of your promise . 
For an instant the room wavered and darkened then she recovered a torturing acuteness of vision . 
Your part of our mutual agreement to set each other free if one or the other should wish to be released . 
He waited a moment , shifting his position nervously then he said , with a touch of irritability You acknowledge the agreement ? The question went through her like a shock . 
She lifted her head to it proudly . 
I acknowledge the agreement , she said . 
And you don't mean to repudiate it ? A log on the hearth fell forward , and mechanically he advanced and pushed it back . 
No , she answered slowly , I don't mean to repudiate it . 
He remained near the hearth , his elbow resting on the mantel shelf . 
Close to his hand stood a little cup of jade that he had given her on one of their wedding anniversaries . 
She wondered vaguely if he noticed it . 
You intend to leave me , then ? she said at length . 
His gesture seemed to deprecate the crudeness of the allusion . 
To marry some one else ? Again his eye and hand protested . 
She rose and stood before him . 
Why should you be afraid to tell me ? Is it Una Van Sideren ? He was silent . 
I wish you good luck , she said . 
III She looked up , finding herself alone . 
She did not remember when or how he had left the room , or how long afterward she had sat there . 
The fire still smouldered on the hearth , but the slant of sunlight had left the wall . 
Her first conscious thought was that she had not broken her word , that she had fulfilled the very letter of their bargain . 
There had been no crying out , no vain appeal to the past , no attempt at temporizing or evasion . 
She had marched straight up to the guns . 
Now that it was over , she sickened to find herself alive . 
She looked about her , trying to recover her hold on reality . 
Her identity seemed to be slipping from her , as it disappears in a physical swoon . 
This is my room this is my house , she heard herself saying . 
Her room ? Her house ? She could almost hear the walls laugh back at her . 
She stood up , a dull ache in every bone . 
The silence of the room frightened her . 
She remembered , now , having heard the front door close a long time ago the sound suddenly re echoed through her brain . 
Her husband must have left the house , then her HUSBAND ? She no longer knew in what terms to think the simplest phrases had a poisoned edge . 
She sank back into her chair , overcome by a strange weakness . 
The clock struck ten it was only ten o'clock ! Suddenly she remembered that she had not ordered dinner . 
The clock struck another hour eleven . 
She stood up again and walked to the door she thought she would go up stairs to her room . 
HER room ? Again the word derided her . 
She opened the door , crossed the narrow hall , and walked up the stairs . 
As she passed , she noticed Westall's sticks and umbrellas a pair of his gloves lay on the hall table . 
The same stair carpet mounted between the same walls the same old French print , in its narrow black frame , faced her on the landing . 
This visual continuity was intolerable . 
Within , a gaping chasm without , the same untroubled and familiar surface . 
She must get away from it before she could attempt to think . 
But , once in her room , she sat down on the lounge , a stupor creeping over her . 
A great deal had happened in the interval a wild marching and countermarching of emotions , arguments , ideas a fury of insurgent impulses that fell back spent upon themselves . 
She had tried , at first , to rally , to organize these chaotic forces . 
There must be help somewhere , if only she could master the inner tumult . 
Life could not be broken off short like this , for a whim , a fancy the law itself would side with her , would defend her . 
But this was grotesque , intolerable a mad mistake , for which she could not be held accountable ! The law she had despised was still there , might still be invoked . 
she would yield anything to keep her hold on happiness . 
Ah , but the difficulty lay deeper ! The law could not help her her own apostasy could not help her . 
She was the victim of the theories she renounced . 
It was as though some giant machine of her own making had caught her up in its wheels and was grinding her to atoms . 
It was afternoon when she found herself out of doors . 
She walked with an aimless haste , fearing to meet familiar faces . 
The day was radiant , metallic one of those searching American days so calculated to reveal the shortcomings of our street cleaning and the excesses of our architecture . 
The streets looked bare and hideous everything stared and glittered . 
She called a passing hansom , and gave Mrs. Van Sideren's address . 
She did not know what had led up to the act but she found herself suddenly resolved to speak , to cry out a warning . 
it was too late to save herself but the girl might still be told . 
The hansom rattled up Fifth Avenue she sat with her eyes fixed , avoiding recognition . 
At the Van Siderens' door she sprang out and rang the bell . 
Action had cleared her brain , and she felt calm and self possessed . 
She knew now exactly what she meant to say . 
The ladies were both out . 
the parlor maid stood waiting for a card . 
Julia , with a vague murmur , turned away from the door and lingered a moment on the sidewalk . 
Then she remembered that she had not paid the cab driver . 
She drew a dollar from her purse and handed it to him . 
He touched his hat and drove off , leaving her alone in the long empty street . 
She wandered away westward , toward strange thoroughfares , where she was not likely to meet acquaintances . 
The feeling of aimlessness had returned . 
Once she found herself in the afternoon torrent of Broadway , swept past tawdry shops and flaming theatrical posters , with a succession of meaningless faces gliding by in the opposite direction . 
A feeling of faintness reminded her that she had not eaten since morning . 
She turned into a side street of shabby houses , with rows of ash barrels behind bent area railings . 
In a basement window she saw the sign LADIES' RESTAURANT a pie and a dish of doughnuts lay against the dusty pane like petrified food in an ethnological museum . 
She entered , and a young woman with a weak mouth and a brazen eye cleared a table for her near the window . 
The table was covered with a red and white cotton cloth and adorned with a bunch of celery in a thick tumbler and a salt cellar full of grayish lumpy salt . 
Julia ordered tea , and sat a long time waiting for it . 
She was glad to be away from the noise and confusion of the streets . 
The low ceilinged room was empty , and two or three waitresses with thin pert faces lounged in the background staring at her and whispering together . 
At last the tea was brought in a discolored metal teapot . 
Julia poured a cup and drank it hastily . 
It was black and bitter , but it flowed through her veins like an elixir . 
She was almost dizzy with exhilaration . 
Oh , how tired , how unutterably tired she had been ! She drank a second cup , blacker and bitterer , and now her mind was once more working clearly . 
She felt as vigorous , as decisive , as when she had stood on the Van Siderens' door step but the wish to return there had subsided . 
She saw now the futility of such an attempt the humiliation to which it might have exposed her . 
The pity of it was that she did not know what to do next . 
The short winter day was fading , and she realized that she could not remain much longer in the restaurant without attracting notice . 
She paid for her tea and went out into the street . 
The lamps were alight , and here and there a basement shop cast an oblong of gas light across the fissured pavement . 
In the dusk there was something sinister about the aspect of the street , and she hastened back toward Fifth Avenue . 
She was not used to being out alone at that hour . 
At the corner of Fifth Avenue she paused and stood watching the stream of carriages . 
At last a policeman caught sight of her and signed to her that he would take her across . 
She had not meant to cross the street , but she obeyed automatically , and presently found herself on the farther corner . 
There she paused again for a moment but she fancied the policeman was watching her , and this sent her hastening down the nearest side street . 
After that she walked a long time , vaguely . 
Night had fallen , and now and then , through the windows of a passing carriage , she caught the expanse of an evening waistcoat or the shimmer of an opera cloak . 
Suddenly she found herself in a familiar street . 
She stood still a moment , breathing quickly . 
The blinds were drawn , and only a faint translucence marked the windows and the transom above the door . 
As she stood there she heard a step behind her , and a man walked by in the direction of the house . 
He crossed the street , went up the steps of the house , drew forth a latch key , and let himself in . 
There was no one else in sight . 
Julia leaned for a long time against the area rail at the corner , her eyes fixed on the front of the house . 
The feeling of physical weariness had returned , but the strong tea still throbbed in her veins and lit her brain with an unnatural clearness . 
Presently she heard another step draw near , and moving quickly away , she too crossed the street and mounted the steps of the house . 
The impulse which had carried her there prolonged itself in a quick pressure of the electric bell then she felt suddenly weak and tremulous , and grasped the balustrade for support . 
The door opened and a young footman with a fresh inexperienced face stood on the threshold . 
Julia knew in an instant that he would admit her . 
I saw Mr. Arment going in just now , she said . 
Will you ask him to see me for a moment ? The footman hesitated . 
I think Mr. Arment has gone up to dress for dinner , madam . 
Julia advanced into the hall . 
I am sure he will see me I will not detain him long , she said . 
She spoke quietly , authoritatively , in the tone which a good servant does not mistake . 
The footman had his hand on the drawing room door . 
I will tell him , madam . 
What name , please ? Julia trembled she had not thought of that . 
Merely say a lady , she returned carelessly . 
The footman wavered and she fancied herself lost but at that instant the door opened from within and John Arment stepped into the hall . 
It was long since Julia had seen him , and she was startled at the change in his appearance . 
He had thickened , coarsened , settled down into the enclosing flesh . 
But she noted this insensibly her one conscious thought was that , now she was face to face with him , she must not let him escape till he had heard her . 
Every pulse in her body throbbed with the urgency of her message . 
She went up to him as he drew back . 
I must speak to you , she said . 
Arment hesitated , red and stammering . 
Julia glanced at the footman , and her look acted as a warning . 
The instinctive shrinking from a scene predominated over every other impulse , and Arment said slowly Will you come this way ? He followed her into the drawing room and closed the door . 
Julia , as she advanced , was vaguely aware that the room at least was unchanged time had not mitigated its horrors . 
The contadina still lurched from the chimney breast , and the Greek slave obstructed the threshold of the inner room . 
The place was alive with memories they started out from every fold of the yellow satin curtains and glided between the angles of the rosewood furniture . 
But while some subordinate agency was carrying these impressions to her brain , her whole conscious effort was centred in the act of dominating Arment's will . 
The fear that he would refuse to hear her mounted like fever to her brain . 
She felt her purpose melt before it , words and arguments running into each other in the heat of her longing . 
The sound of his voice steadied her . 
It was neither kind nor unkind a voice that suspended judgment , rather , awaiting unforeseen developments . 
She supported herself against the back of the chair and drew a deep breath . 
Shall I send for something ? he continued , with a cold embarrassed politeness . 
Julia raised an entreating hand . 
He paused midway toward the bell and turned on her . 
Then may I ask ? Yes , she interrupted him . 
I came here because I wanted to see you . 
There is something I must tell you . 
Arment continued to scrutinize her . 
I am surprised at that , he said . 
I should have supposed that any communication you may wish to make could have been made through our lawyers . 
Our lawyers ! She burst into a little laugh . 
I don't think they could help me this time . 
Arment's face took on a barricaded look . 
If there is any question of help of course It struck her , whimsically , that she had seen that look when some shabby devil called with a subscription book . 
Perhaps he thought she wanted him to put his name down for so much in sympathy or even in money . 
The thought made her laugh again . 
She saw his look change slowly to perplexity . 
All his facial changes were slow , and she remembered , suddenly , how it had once diverted her to shift that lumbering scenery with a word . 
For the first time it struck her that she had been cruel . 
There IS a question of help , she said in a softer key you can help me but only by listening . 
I want to tell you something . 
Arment's resistance was not yielding . 
Would it not be easier to write ? he suggested . 
There is no time to write . 
and it won't take long . 
She raised her head and their eyes met . 
My husband has left me , she said . 
Westall ? he stammered , reddening again . 
Just as I left you . 
Because he was tired of me . 
The words , uttered scarcely above a whisper , seemed to dilate to the limit of the room . 
Arment looked toward the door then his embarrassed glance returned to Julia . 
I am very sorry , he said awkwardly . 
Thank you , she murmured . 
But I don't see No but you will in a moment . 
Won't you listen to me ? Please ! Instinctively she had shifted her position putting herself between him and the door . 
It happened this morning , she went on in short breathless phrases . 
I never suspected anything I thought we were perfectly happy . 
Suddenly he told me he was tired of me . 
there is a girl he likes better . 
He has gone to her . 
As she spoke , the lurking anguish rose upon her , possessing her once more to the exclusion of every other emotion . 
Her eyes ached , her throat swelled with it , and two painful tears burnt a way down her face . 
Arment's constraint was increasing visibly . 
This this is very unfortunate , he began . 
But I should say the law The law ? she echoed ironically . 
When he asks for his freedom ? You are not obliged to give it . 
You were not obliged to give me mine but you did . 
He made a protesting gesture . 
You saw that the law couldn't help you didn't you ? she went on . 
That is what I see now . 
The law represents material rights it can't go beyond . 
If we don't recognize an inner law . 
the obligation that love creates . 
being loved as well as loving . 
there is nothing to prevent our spreading ruin unhindered . 
is there ? She raised her head plaintively , with the look of a bewildered child . 
That is what I see now . 
what I wanted to tell you . 
He leaves me because he's tired . 
but I was not tired and I don't understand why he is . 
That's the dreadful part of it the not understanding I hadn't realized what it meant . 
But I've been thinking of it all day , and things have come back to me things I hadn't noticed . 
She moved closer to him , and fixed her eyes on his with the gaze that tries to reach beyond words . 
I see now that YOU didn't understand did you ? Their eyes met in a sudden shock of comprehension a veil seemed to be lifted between them . 
No , he said , I didn't understand . 
She gave a little cry , almost of triumph . 
I knew it ! I knew it ! You wondered you tried to tell me but no words came . 
You saw your life falling in ruins . 
the world slipping from you . 
and you couldn't speak or move ! She sank down on the chair against which she had been leaning . 
Now I know now I know , she repeated . 
I am very sorry for you , she heard Arment stammer . 
That's not what I came for . 
I don't want you to be sorry . 
I came to ask you to forgive me . 
for not understanding that YOU didn't understand . 
That's all I wanted to say . 
She rose with a vague sense that the end had come , and put out a groping hand toward the door . 
She turned to him with a faint smile . 
You forgive me ? There is nothing to forgive Then will you shake hands for good by ? She felt his hand in hers it was nerveless , reluctant . 
Good by , she repeated . 
She opened the door and passed out into the hall . 
As she did so , Arment took an impulsive step forward but just then the footman , who was evidently alive to his obligations , advanced from the background to let her out . 
She heard Arment fall back . 
The footman threw open the door , and she found herself outside in the darkness . 
The End of The Reckoning Verse BOTTICELLI'S MADONNA IN THE LOUVRE . 
and yet in vain , in vain , Since even this Jesus died on Calvary Say to her then He also rose again . 
THE TOMB OF ILARIA GIUNIGI . 
, since I am fain To pour them in a consecrated cup . 
I. LA VIERGE AU DONATEUR . 
The crimson panes like blood drops stigmatize The western floor . 
The aisles are mute and cold . 
A rigid fetich in her robe of gold The Virgin of the Pillar , with blank eyes , Enthroned beneath her votive canopies , Gathers a meagre remnant to her fold . 
The rest is solitude the church , grown old , Stands stark and gray beneath the burning skies . 
