A. CONAN DOYLE THE WHITE COMPANY CONTENTS . 
I. How the Black Sheep came forth from the Fold II . 
How Alleyne Edricson came out into the World III . 
How Hordle John cozened the Fuller of Lymington IV . 
How the Bailiff of Southampton Slew the Two Masterless Men IV . 
How a Strange Company Gathered at the Pied Merlin VI . 
How Samkin Aylward Wagered his Feather bed VII . 
How the Three Comrades Journeyed through the Woodlands VIII . 
How Strange Things Befel in Minsted Wood X. How Hordle John Found a Man whom he Might Follow XI . 
How a Young Shepherd had a Perilous Flock XII . 
How Alleyne Learned More than he could Teach XIII . 
How the White Company set forth to the Wars XIV . 
How Sir Nigel sought for a Wayside Venture XV . 
How the Yellow Cog sailed forth from Life XVI . 
How the Yellow Cog fought the Two Rover Galleys XVII . 
How the Yellow Cog crossed the Bar of Gironde XVIII . 
How Sir Nigel Loring put a Patch upon his Eye XIX . 
How there was Stir at the Abbey of St . 
How Alleyne Won his Place in an Honorable Guild XXI . 
How Agostino Pisano Risked his Head XXII . 
How the Bowmen held Wassail at the Rose de Guienne XXIII . 
How England held the Lists at Bordeaux XXIV . 
How a Champion came forth from the East XXV . 
How Sir Nigel wrote to Twynham Castle XXVI . 
How the Three Comrades Gained a Mighty Treasure XXVII . 
How Roger Club foot was Passed into Paradise XXVIII . 
How the Comrades came over the Marshes of France XXIX . 
How the Blessed Hour of Sight Came to the Lady Tiphaine XXX . 
How the Brushwood Men came to the Chateau of Villefranche XXXI . 
How Five Men held the Keep of Villefranche XXXII . 
How the Company took Counsel Round the Fallen Tree XXXIII . 
How the Army made the Passage of Roncesvalles XXXIV . 
How the Company Made Sport in the Vale of Pampeluna XXXV . 
How Sir Nigel Hawked at an Eagle XXXVI . 
How Sir Nigel Took the Patch from his Eye XXXVII . 
How the White Company came to be Disbanded XXXVIII . 
Of the Home coming to Hampshire CHAPTER I. HOW THE BLACK SHEEP CAME FORTH FROM THE FOLD . 
THE great bell of Beaulieu was ringing . 
It was a common sound in those parts as common as the chatter of the jays and the booming of the bittern . 
Yet the fishers and the peasants raised their heads and looked questions at each other , for the angelus had already gone and vespers was still far off . 
Why should the great bell of Beaulieu toll when the shadows were neither short nor long ? All round the Abbey the monks were trooping in . 
Leonard's , they had all turned their steps homewards . 
It had been no sudden call . 
So urgent a message had not been issued within the memory of old lay brother Athanasius , who had cleaned the Abbey knocker since the year after the Battle of Bannockburn . 
As they swept gravely in by twos and by threes , with bended heads and muttering lips there were few who did not bear upon them some signs of their daily toil . 
Here were two with wrists and sleeves all spotted with the ruddy grape juice . 
Of all the throng there was scarce one who was not labor stained and weary , for Abbot Berghersh was a hard man to himself and to others . 
In crushing his passions he had well nigh crushed himself . 
George before the gates of Paris . 
At last the uproar died away in three last , measured throbs , and ere their echo had ceased the Abbot struck a small gong which summoned a lay brother to his presence . 
Have the brethern come ? he asked , in the Anglo French dialect used in religious houses . 
They are here the other answered , with his eyes cast down and his hands crossed upon his chest . 
All ? Two and thirty of the seniors and fifteen of the novices , most holy father . 
Brother Mark of the Spicarium is sore smitten with a fever and could not come . 
He said that It boots not what he said . 
Fever or no , he should have come at my call . 
His spirit must be chastened , as must that of many more in this Abbey . 
What hast thou to say ? The lay brother stood meek and silent , with his arms still crossed in front of him . 
Where is the master of the novices ? He is without , most holy father . 
The sandalled feet clattered over the wooden floor , and the iron bound door creaked upon its hinges . 
In a few moments it opened again to admit a short square monk with a heavy , composed face and an authoritative manner . 
The Abbot spoke in Latin now , as a language which was more fitted by its age and solemnity to convey the thoughts of two high dignitaries of the order . 
It would , perchance , be best that the novices be not admitted , suggested the master . 
This mention of a woman may turn their minds from their pious meditations to worldly and evil thoughts . 
Woman ! woman ! groaned the Abbot . 
Well has the holy Chrysostom termed them radix malorum . 
From Eve downwards , what good hath come from any of them ? Who brings the plaint ? It is brother Ambrose . 
A holy and devout young man . 
A light and a pattern to every novice . 
Let the matter be brought to an issue then according to our old time monastic habit . 
Bid the chancellor and the sub chancellor lead in the brothers according to age , together with brother John , the accused , and brother Ambrose , the accuser . 
And the novices ? Let them bide in the north alley of the cloisters . 
Stay ! Bid the sub chancellor send out to them Thomas the lector to read unto them from the 'Gesta beati Benedicti . 
It may save them from foolish and pernicious babbling . 
The Abbot was left to himself once more , and bent his thin gray face over his illuminated breviary . 
So he remained while the senior monks filed slowly and sedately into the chamber seating themselves upon the long oaken benches which lined the wall on either side . 
Then he turned his eager fiery gaze upon the pale faced monk who faced him . 
This plaint is thine , as I learn , brother Ambrose , said he . 
Have you set them forth according to rule ? They are here set down , most holy father , upon a cantle of sheep skin . 
Let the sheep skin be handed to the chancellor . 
Bring in brother John , and let him hear the plaints which have been urged against him . 
At this order a lay brother swung open the door , and two other lay brothers entered leading between them a young novice of the order . 
He was a man of huge stature , dark eyed and red headed , with a peculiar half humorous , half defiant expression upon his bold , well marked features . 
His dark eyes glanced rapidly over the assembly , and finally settled with a grim and menacing twinkle upon the face of his accuser . 
Read upon the same day at the Abbey of Beaulieu in the presence of the most reverend Abbot Berghersh and of the assembled order . 
The Abbot alone sat gray and immutable , with a drawn face and a brooding eye . 
There was a buzz and murmur among the white frocked brethren at this grave charge but the Abbot held up his long quivering hand . 
What then ? said he . 
A dead silence throughout the room , with a rolling of heads and upturning of eyes , bespoke the pious horror of the community . 
The Abbot drew his gray brows low over his fiercely questioning eyes . 
Who can vouch for this thing ? he asked . 
That can I , answered the accuser . 
And the woman ? asked the Abbot . 
Did she not break into lamentation and woe that a brother should so demean himself ? Nay , she smiled sweetly upon him and thanked him . 
I can vouch it and so can brother Porphyry . 
Canst thou ? cried the Abbot , in a high , tempestuous tone . 
At this sudden outflame of wrath the two witnesses sank their faces on to their chests , and sat as men crushed . 
The Abbot turned his angry eyes away from them and bent them upon the accused , who met his searching gaze with a firm and composed face . 
What talk is this ? he cried . 
I know not about that , said brother John . 
I know only that the words come kindly to my mouth , for it was the speech of my fathers before me . 
Under your favor , I shall either use it now or hold my peace . 
The Abbot patted his foot and nodded his head , as one who passes a point but does not forget it . 
It may be , too , that I spoke somewhat shortly concerning the bran and the beans , the same being poor provender and unfitted for a man of my inches . 
It is true also that I did lay my hands upon this jack fool of a brother Ambrose , though , as you can see , I did him little scathe . 
I should have thought shame upon my manhood , as well as my monkhood , if I had held back my hand from her . 
He glanced around as he spoke with the half amused look which he had worn during the whole proceedings . 
There is no need to go further , said the Abbot . 
He has confessed to all . 
It only remains for me to portion out the punishment which is due to his evil conduct . 
He rose , and the two long lines of brothers followed his example , looking sideways with scared faces at the angry prelate . 
Thou shalt come back neither to Beaulieu nor to any of the granges of Beaulieu , and thy name shall be struck off the scrolls of the order . 
From their pious oasis they looked dreamily out at the desert of life , a place full of stormings and strivings comfortless , restless , and overshadowed by evil . 
The young novice , however , appeared to have other thoughts , for his eyes sparkled and his smile broadened . 
It needed but that to add fresh fuel to the fiery mood of the prelate . 
So much for thy spiritual punishment , he cried . 
The Abbot only sprang forward with shining eyes but the chancellor and the master hung upon either arm and wrested him back out of danger's way . 
He is possessed of a devil ! they shouted . 
Run , brother Ambrose , brother Joachim ! Call Hugh of the Mill , and Woodman Wat , and Raoul with his arbalest and bolts . 
HOW ALLEYNE EDRICSON CAME OUT INTO THE WORLD . 
NEVER had the peaceful atmosphere of the old Cistercian house been so rudely ruffled . 
Never had there been insurrection so sudden , so short , and so successful . 
Yet the Abbot Berghersh was a man of too firm a grain to allow one bold outbreak to imperil the settled order of his great household . 
The Abbot was still on his knees , when a gentle tapping at the door of his cell broke in upon his orisons . 
He was a thin faced , yellow haired youth , rather above the middle size , comely and well shapen , with straight , lithe figure and eager , boyish features . 
His clear , pensive gray eyes , and quick , delicate expression , spoke of a nature which had unfolded far from the boisterous joys and sorrows of the world . 
Yet there was a set of the mouth and a prominence of the chin which relieved him of any trace of effeminacy . 
A broad leather strap hanging from his shoulder supported a scrip or satchel such as travellers were wont to carry . 
Art ready , then , fair son ? said the Abbot . 
This is indeed a day of comings and of going . 
It is strange that in one twelve hours the Abbey should have cast off its foulest weed and should now lose what we are fain to look upon as our choicest blossom . 
You speak too kindly , father , the youth answered . 
If I had my will I should never go forth , but should end my days here in Beaulieu . 
It hath been my home as far back as my mind can carry me , and it is a sore thing for me to have to leave it . 
Life brings many a cross , said the Abbot gently . 
Who is without them ? Your going forth is a grief to us as well as to yourself . 
But there is no help . 
Seat thee upon the settle , Alleyne , for you may need rest ere long . 
The youth sat down as directed , but reluctantly and with diffidence . 
The Abbot stood by the narrow window , and his long black shadow fell slantwise across the rush strewn floor . 
It was his desire and request , however , that you should not remain in the cloisters , but should at a ripe age return into the world . 
You have been porter ? Yes , father . 
Exorcist ? Yes , father . 
Reader ? Yes , father . 
Acolyte ? But have sworn no vow of constancy or chastity ? No , father . 
Then you are free to follow a worldly life . 
But let me hear , ere you start , what gifts you take away with you from Beaulieu ? Some I already know . 
There is the playing of the citole and the rebeck . 
Our choir will be dumb without you . 
You carve too ? The youth's pale face flushed with the pride of the skilled workman . 
Yes , holy father , he answered . 
Thanks to good brother Bartholomew , I carve in wood and in ivory , and can do something also in silver and in bronze . 
Brother Luke hath given me some skill in damask work , and in the enamelling of shrines , tabernacles , diptychs and triptychs . 
For the rest , I know a little of the making of covers , the cutting of precious stones , and the fashioning of instruments . 
A goodly list , truly , cried the superior with a smile . 
Yet , thanks to our good chancellor , I am not wholly unlettered . 
I have read Ockham , Bradwardine , and other of the schoolmen , together with the learned Duns Scotus and the book of the holy Aquinas . 
Holy father , said he , he would come upon those parts of France which are held by the King's Majesty . 
But if he trended to the south he might reach Spain and the Barbary States . 
To his north would be Flanders and the country of the Eastlanders and of the Muscovites . 
And beyond that , fair son ? Beyond that is Jerusalem and the Holy Land , and the great river which hath its source in the Garden of Eden . 
And then ? Nay , good father , I cannot tell . 
Methinks the end of the world is not far from there . 
Then we can still find something to teach thee , Alleyne , said the Abbot complaisantly . 
Know that many strange nations lie betwixt there and the end of the world . 
There is the country of the Amazons , and the country of the dwarfs , and the country of the fair but evil women who slay with beholding , like the basilisk . 
Beyond that again is the kingdom of Prester John and of the great Cham . 
But you have a long road before you . 
Whither will you first turn ? To my brother's at Minstead . 
If he be indeed an ungodly and violent man , there is the more need that I should seek him out and see whether I cannot turn him to better ways . 
The Abbot shook his head . 
The Socman of Minstead hath earned an evil name over the country side , he said . 
If you must go to him , see at least that he doth not turn you from the narrow path upon which you have learned to tread . 
But you are in God's keeping , and Godward should you ever look in danger and in trouble . 
Above all , shun the snares of women , for they are ever set for the foolish feet of the young . 
Kneel down , my child , and take an old man's blessing . 
Alleyne Edricson bent his head while the Abbot poured out his heartfelt supplication that Heaven would watch over this young soul , now going forth into the darkness and danger of the world . 
It was no mere form for either of them . 
To them the outside life of mankind did indeed seem to be one of violence and of sin , beset with physical and still more with spiritual danger . 
Heaven , too , was very near to them in those days . 
God's direct agency was to be seen in the thunder and the rainbow , the whirlwind and the lightning . 
Underneath , in the porch of the Abbey , the monks had gathered to give him a last God speed . 
Many had brought some parting token by which he should remember them . 
So , amid hand shakings and laughings and blessings , Alleyne Edricson turned his back upon Beaulieu . 
At the turn of the road he stopped and gazed back . 
A sudden mist swam up before the young man's eyes , and he turned away upon his journey with a heavy heart and a choking throat . 
HOW HORDLE JOHN COZENED THE FULLER OF LYMINGTON . 
Long ere Alleyne was out of sound of the Beaulieu bells he was striding sturdily along , swinging his staff and whistling as merrily as the birds in the thicket . 
It was an evening to raise a man's heart . 
The sun shining slantwise through the trees threw delicate traceries across the road , with bars of golden light between . 
Away in the distance before and behind , the green boughs , now turning in places to a coppery redness , shot their broad arches across the track . 
The still summer air was heavy with the resinous smell of the great forest . 
Here and there a tawny brook prattled out from among the underwood and lost itself again in the ferns and brambles upon the further side . 
Save the dull piping of insects and the sough of the leaves , there was silence everywhere the sweet restful silence of nature . 
And yet there was no want of life the whole wide wood was full of it . 
Alleyne gave his staff a merry flourish , however , and the red deer bethought him that the King was far off , so streaked away from whence he came . 
The youth had now journeyed considerably beyond the furthest domains of the Abbey . 
Once he shook both hands furiously in the air , and twice he sprang from his seat and hurried down the road . 
He ran once , but the long gown clogged him so that he slowed down into a shambling walk , and finally plumped into the heather once more . 
Hast so indeed ? cried he . 
Then perhaps canst tell me the name of a great loathly lump of a brother wi' freckled face an' a hand like a spade . 
His eyes were black an' his hair was red an' his voice like the parish bull . 
I trow that there cannot be two alike in the same cloisters . 
That surely can be no other than brother John , said Alleyne . 
I trust he has done you no wrong , that you should be so hot against him . 
Wrong , quotha ! cried the other , jumping out of the heather . 
'Not I , I answered . 
Nay , friend , take it not so sadly , said Alleyne , clapping the disconsolate one upon the shoulder . 
Canst change thy robe for a jerkin once more at the Abbey , unless perchance you have a friend near at hand . 
With all my heart , said Alleyne readily . 
Then take this pathway on the left , I pray thee , and then the deer track which passes on the right . 
You will then see under a great beech tree the hut of a charcoal burner . 
There are reasons why he would be loth to refuse me . 
Alleyne started off along the path indicated , and soon found the log hut where the burner dwelt . 
He was away faggot cutting in the forest , but his wife , a ruddy bustling dame , found the needful garments and tied them into a bundle . 
She had round red arms , a dress of some sober woollen stuff , and a brass brooch the size of a cheese cake stuck in the front of it . 
Peter the fuller ! she kept repeating . 
Marry come up ! if I were Peter the fuller's wife I would teach him better than to give his clothes to the first knave who asks for them . 
But who are you , young sir ? I am a clerk on my road from Beaulieu to Minstead . 
Aye , indeed ! Hast been brought up at the Abbey then . 
I could read it from thy reddened cheek and downcast eye , Hast learned from the monks , I trow , to fear a woman as thou wouldst a lazar house . 
Out upon them ! that they should dishonor their own mothers by such teaching . 
A pretty world it would be with all the women out of it . 
Heaven forfend that such a thing should come to pass ! said Alleyne . 
Amen and amen ! But thou art a pretty lad , and the prettier for thy modest ways . 
I have indeed seen little of life , good dame . 
Wilt find nothing in it to pay for the loss of thy own freshness . 
Here are the clothes , and Peter can leave them when next he comes this way . 
Holy Virgin ! see the dust upon thy doublet ! It were easy to see that there is no woman to tend to thee . 
So ! that is better . 
Now buss me , boy . 
Yet it sent the blood to his temples again , and he wondered , as he turned away , what the Abbot Berghersh would have answered to so frank an invitation . 
He was still tingling from this new experience when he came out upon the high road and saw a sight which drove all other thoughts from his mind . 
Some way down from where he had left him the unfortunate Peter was stamping and raving tenfold worse than before . 
Now , however , instead of the great white cloak , he had no clothes on at all , save a short woollen shirt and a pair of leather shoes . 
See him ! yelled Peter . 
Look to him ! You shall be my witness . 
He shall see Winchester jail for this . 
See where he goes with my cloak under his arm ! Who then ? cried Alleyne . 
Who but that cursed brother John . 
He hath not left me clothes enough to make a gallybagger . 
The double thief hath cozened me out of my gown . 
Stay though , my friend , it was his gown , objected Alleyne . 
He hath them all gown , jerkin , hosen and all . 
Gramercy to him that he left me the shirt and the shoon . 
I doubt not that he will be back for them anon . 
But how came this ? asked Alleyne , open eyed with astonishment . 
Are those the clothes ? For dear charity's sake give them to me . 
Not the Pope himself shall have these from me , though he sent the whole college of cardinals to ask it . 
He had , he said , but gone for a while that I might be the freer for my devotions . 
He laughed so the while , like a great croaking frog , that I might have caught him had my breath not been as short as his legs were long . 
The fuller looked sadly and gravely at him but finding that he still laughed , he bowed with much mock politeness and stalked onwards in his borrowed clothes . 
Alleyne watched him until he was small in the distance , and then , wiping the tears from his eyes , he set off briskly once more upon his journey . 
HOW THE BAILIFF OF SOUTHAMPTON SLEW THE TWO MASTERLESS MEN . 
THE road along which he travelled was scarce as populous as most other roads in the kingdom , and far less so than those which lie between the larger towns . 
Yet from time to time Alleyne met other wayfarers , and more than once was overtaken by strings of pack mules and horsemen journeying in the same direction as himself . 
Swiftly as he went , however , he could not escape the curse of the four blessed evangelists which the mendicant howled behind him . 
So dreadful are his execrations that the frightened lad thrust his fingers into his ear holes , and ran until the fellow was but a brown smirch upon the yellow road . 
Further on , at the edge of the woodland , he came upon a chapman and his wife , who sat upon a fallen tree . 
He had put his pack down as a table , and the two of them were devouring a great pasty , and washing it down with some drink from a stone jar . 
Alleyne hastened on , lest he make more mischief , and his heart was heavy as lead within him . 
Look where he would , he seemed to see nothing but injustice and violence and the hardness of man to man . 
Strangest of all was when a brisk tune struck suddenly up and the four legs began to kick and twitter in time to the music . 
A spear's length from him , they each threw a somersault into the air , and came down upon their feet with smirking faces and their hands over their hearts . 
A guerdon a guerdon , my knight of the staring eyes ! cried one . 
A gift , my prince ! shouted the other . 
Any trifle will serve a purse of gold , or even a jewelled goblet . 
Alleyne thought of what he had read of demoniac possession the jumpings , the twitchings , the wild talk . 
Hast never seen tumblers before ? asked the elder , a black browed , swarthy man , as brown and supple as a hazel twig . 
Truly , sirs , it is a new sight to me , the clerk answered . 
When I saw your four legs above the bush I could scarce credit my own eyes . 
Why is it that you do this thing ? A dry question to answer , cried the younger , coming back on to his feet . 
A moment later , however , he flung it over his head , and caught it bottom downwards upon the calf of his left leg . 
We thank you for the wine , kind sir , said he , and for the ready courtesy wherewith you offered it . 
if you will be pleased to sit upon that stump , we will now continue our exercise . 
The jugglers were on their heads once more , bounding about with rigid necks , playing the while in perfect time and tune . 
Well played , sweet poppet ! cried the younger . 
Hast a rare touch on the strings . 
How knew you the tune ? asked the other . 
I did but follow the notes I heard . 
Both opened their eyes at this , and stared at Alleyne with as much amazement as he had shown at them . 
You have a fine trick of ear then , said one . 
We have long wished to meet such a man . 
Wilt join us and jog on to Ringwood ? Thy duties shall be light , and thou shalt have two pence a day and meat for supper every night . 
With as much beer as you can put away , said the other and a flask of Gascon wine on Sabbaths . 
Nay , it may not be . 
I have other work to do . 
I have tarried with you over long , quoth Alleyne , and resolutely set forth upon his journey once more . 
Looking back , he saw that the smaller had mounted on the younger's shoulders , and that they stood so , some ten feet high , waving their adieus to him . 
He waved back to them , and then hastened on , the lighter of heart for having fallen in with these strange men of pleasure . 
Alleyne had gone no great distance for all the many small passages that had befallen him . 
A gulf seemed to divide this brisk uncertain existence from the old steady round of work and of prayer which he had left behind him . 
The few hours that had passed since he saw the Abbey tower stretched out in his memory until they outgrew whole months of the stagnant life of the cloister . 
As he walked and munched the soft bread from his scrip , it seemed strange to him to feel that it was still warm from the ovens of Beaulieu . 
On the left the woods were still thick , but the road edged away from them and wound over the open . 
To the seeing eye decay is as fair as growth , and death as life . 
The thought stole into Alleyne's heart as he looked upon the autumnal country side and marvelled at its beauty . 
He had little time to dwell upon it however , for there were still six good miles between him and the nearest inn . 
He sat down by the roadside to partake of his bread and cheese , and then with a lighter scrip he hastened upon his way . 
There appeared to be more wayfarers on the down than in the forest . 
First he passed two Dominicans in their long black dresses , who swept by him with downcast looks and pattering lips , without so much as a glance at him . 
He stopped Alleyne to ask him whether it was not true that there was a hostel somewhere in those parts which was especially famous for the stewing of eels . 
The clerk having made answer that he had heard the eels of Sowley well spoken of , the friar sucked in his lips and hurried forward . 
Close at his heels came three laborers walking abreast , with spade and mattock over their shoulders . 
One of them carried a young bittern which they had caught upon the moor , and they offered it to Alleyne for a silver groat . 
Yet it is not always the burliest and the wildest who are the most to be dreaded . 
The workers looked hungrily at him , and then jogged onwards upon their way in slow , lumbering Saxon style . 
In the cloisters he had heard vague talk of the law the mighty law which was higher than prelate or baron , yet no sign could he see of it . 
What was the benefit of a law written fair upon parchment , he wondered , if there were no officers to enforce it . 
A mile or so out upon the moor the road takes a very sudden dip into a hollow , with a peat colored stream running swiftly down the centre of it . 
To the right of this stood , and stands to this day , an ancient barrow , or burying mound , covered deeply in a bristle of heather and bracken . 
Alleyne was plodding down the slope upon one side , when he saw an old dame coming towards him upon the other , limping with weariness and leaning heavily upon a stick . 
When she reached the edge of the stream she stood helpless , looking to right and to left for some ford . 
Where the path ran down a great stone had been fixed in the centre of the brook , but it was too far from the bank for her aged and uncertain feet . 
There she still sat when Alleyne reached the crossing . 
Come , mother , quoth he , it is not so very perilous a passage . 
That is easily amended , said he cheerily , and picking her lightly up , for she was much worn with time , he passed across with her . 
He could not but observe , however , that as he placed her down her knees seemed to fail her , and she could scarcely prop herself up with her staff . 
You are weak , mother , said he . 
Hast journeyed far , I wot . 
From Wiltshire , friend , said she , in a quavering voice three days have I been on the road . 
I go to my son , who is one of the King's regarders at Brockenhurst . 
He has ever said that he would care for me in mine old age . 
And rightly too , mother , since you cared for him in his youth . 
But when have you broken fast ? At Lyndenhurst but alas ! my money is at an end , and I could but get a dish of bran porridge from the nunnery . 
May God be with you ! May God be with you , young man ! she cried . 
He was moving away himself , when his eyes lit upon a strange sight , and one which sent a tingling through his skin . 
Out of the tangled scrub on the old overgrown barrow two human faces were looking out at him the sinking sun glimmered full upon them , showing up every line and feature . 
Alleyne had read of such folk , but had never seen one before , and could scarce take his eyes from the fellow's broad pouting lip and shining teeth . 
He had not gained the crown of the slope , when he heard a sudden scuffle behind him and a feeble voice bleating for help . 
At the sight of her thin limbs struggling in weak resistance , such a glow of fierce anger passed over Alleyne as set his head in a whirl . 
Dropping his scrip , he bounded over the stream once more , and made for the two villains , with his staff whirled over his shoulder and his gray eyes blazing with fury . 
The robbers , however , were not disposed to leave their victim until they had worked their wicked will upon her . 
His blood was fairly aflame , however , and he needed no such challenge . 
Dashing at the black man , he smote at him with such good will that the other let his knife tinkle into the roadway , and hopped howling to a safer distance . 
The man with the birth mark , too , struggled to break away , and Alleyne heard his teeth chatter and felt his limbs grow limp to his hand . 
Down the slanting road there was riding a big , burly man , clad in a tunic of purple velvet and driving a great black horse as hard as it could gallop . 
He leaned well over its neck as he rode , and made a heaving with his shoulders at every bound as though he were lifting the steed instead of it carrying him . 
In the rapid glance Alleyne saw that he had white doeskin gloves , a curling white feather in his flat velvet cap , and a broad gold , embroidered baldric across his bosom . 
Behind him rode six others , two and two , clad in sober brown jerkins , with the long yellow staves of their bows thrusting out from behind their right shoulders . 
Down the hill they thundered , over the brook and up to the scene of the contest . 
Here is one ! said the leader , springing down from his reeking horse , and seizing the white rogue by the edge of his jerkin . 
This is one of them . 
I know him by that devil's touch upon his brow . 
Where are your cords , Peterkin ? So ! bind him hand and foot . 
His last hour has come . 
And you , young man , who may you be ? I am a clerk , sir , travelling from Beaulieu . 
A clerk ! cried the other . 
Art from Oxenford or from Cambridge ? Hast thou a letter from the chancellor of thy college giving thee a permit to beg ? Let me see thy letter . 
He had a stern , square face , with bushy side whiskers and a very questioning eye . 
I am from Beaulieu Abbey , and I have no need to beg , said Alleyne , who was all of a tremble now that the ruffle was over . 
The better for thee , the other answered . 
Dost know who I am ? No , sir , I do not . 
I am the law ! nodding his head solemnly . 
I am the law of England and the mouthpiece of his most gracious and royal majesty , Edward the Third . 
Alleyne louted low to the King's representative . 
Truly you came in good time , honored sir , said he . 
A moment later and they would have slain me . 
But there should be another one , cried the man in the purple coat . 
There should be a black man . 
Anthony's fire , and a black man who had served him as cook those are the pair that we are in chase of . 
The black man fled over to that side , said Alleyne , pointing towards the barrow . 
He could not have gone far , sir bailiff , cried one of the archers , unslinging his bow . 
He is in hiding somewhere , for he knew well , black paynim as he is , that our horses' four legs could outstrip his two . 
Then we shall have him , said the other . 
It shall never be said , whilst I am bailiff of Southampton , that any waster , riever , draw latch or murtherer came scathless away from me and my posse . 
Now stretch out in line , my merry ones , with arrow on string , and I shall show you such sport as only the King can give . 
You on the left , Howett , and Thomas of Redbridge upon the right . 
So ! Beat high and low among the heather , and a pot of wine to the lucky marksman . 
As it chanced , however , the searchers had not far to seek . 
The negro had burrowed down into his hiding place upon the barrow , where he might have lain snug enough , had it not been for the red gear upon his head . 
The two who were on either side of Alleyne bent their bows as calmly as though they were shooting at the popinjay at the village fair . 
Seven yards windage , Hal , said one , whose hair was streaked with gray . 
Five , replied the other , letting loose his string . 
Alleyne gave a gulp in his throat , for the yellow streak seemed to pass through the man but he still ran forward . 
Seven , you jack fool , growled the first speaker , and his bow twanged like a harp string . 
The black man sprang high up into the air , and shot out both his arms and his legs , coming down all a sprawl among the heather . 
Right under the blade bone ! quoth the archer , sauntering forward for his arrow . 
The old hound is the best when all is said , quoth the bailiff of Southampton , as they made back for the roadway . 
That means a quart of the best Malmsey in Southampton this very night , Matthew Atwood . 
Art sure that he is dead ? Dead as Pontius Pilate , worshipful sir . 
Now , as to the other knave . 
There are trees and to spare over yonder , but we have scarce leisure to make for them . 
Draw thy sword , Thomas of Redbridge , and hew me his head from his shoulders . 
A boon , gracious sir , a boon ! cried the condemned man . 
What then ? asked the bailiff . 
I will confess to my crime . 
There is little merit in this confession , quoth the bailiff sternly . 
Thou hast done evil within my bailiwick , and must die . 
But , sir , urged Alleyne , who was white to the lips at these bloody doings , he hath not yet come to trial . 
Young clerk , said the bailiff , you speak of that of which you know nothing . 
It is true that he hath not come to trial , but the trial hath come to him . 
He hath fled the law and is beyond its pale . 
Touch not that which is no concern of thine . 
I bought it for two rose nobles from a shipman who came from the Levant . 
The boon I crave is that you will place it in my hands and let me die still grasping it . 
In this manner , not only shall my own eternal salvation be secured , but thine also , for I shall never cease to intercede for thee . 
The archers doffed caps at the sight of it , and the bailiff crossed himself devoutly as he handed it to the robber . 
Bear in mind too , that it is Herward the bailiff for whom you pray , and not Herward the sheriff , who is my uncle's son . 
Now , Thomas , I pray you dispatch , for we have a long ride before us and sun has already set . 
By the side of the track the old dame was standing , fastening her red whimple once more round her head . 
Even as he looked one of the archers drew his sword with a sharp whirr of steel and stept up to the lost man . 
A minute later the bailiff and four of his men rode past him on their journey back to Southampton , the other two having been chosen as grave diggers . 
As they passed Alleyne saw that one of the men was wiping his sword blade upon the mane of his horse . 
A deadly sickness came over him at the sight , and sitting down by the wayside he burst out weeping , with his nerves all in a jangle . 
It was a terrible world thought he , and it was hard to know which were the most to be dreaded , the knaves or the men of the law . 
CHAPTER V. HOW A STRANGE COMPANY GATHERED AT THE PIED MERLIN . 
The building was long and low , standing back a little from the road , with two flambeaux blazing on either side of the door as a welcome to the traveller . 
From one window there thrust forth a long pole with a bunch of greenery tied to the end of it a sign that liquor was to be sold within . 
As Alleyne walked up to it he perceived that it was rudely fashioned out of beams of wood , with twinkling lights all over where the glow from within shone through the chinks . 
and every heraldic de vice . 
By the door a horse stood tethered , the ruddy glow beating strongly upon his brown head and patient eyes , while his body stood back in the shadow . 
Alleyne stood still in the roadway for a few minutes reflecting upon what he should do . 
It was , he knew , only a few miles further to Minstead , where his brother dwelt . 
On the other hand , he had never seen this brother since childhood , and the reports which had come to his ears concerning him were seldom to his advantage . 
By all accounts he was a hard and a bitter man . 
If his brother would take him in , well and good . 
He would bide with him for a time and do what he might to serve him . 
At the end of a year he would be free to return to the cloisters , for such had been his father's bequest . 
The rude plank door was ajar , but as Alleyne approached it there came from within such a gust of rough laughter and clatter of tongues that he stood irresolute upon the threshold . 
On this fire a great cauldron bubbled and simmered , giving forth a rich and promising smell . 
A rouse ! A rouse ! cried one rough looking fellow in a tattered jerkin . 
One more round of mead or ale and the score to the last comer . 
'Tis the law of the 'Pied Merlin , shouted another . 
Ho there , Dame Eliza ! Here is fresh custom come to the house , and not a drain for the company . 
I will take your orders , gentles I will assuredly take your orders , the landlady answered , bustling in with her hands full of leathern drinking cups . 
What is it that you drink , then ? Beer for the lads of the forest , mead for the gleeman , strong waters for the tinker , and wine for the rest . 
It is an old custom of the house , young sir . 
It has been the use at the 'Pied Merlin' this many a year back that the company should drink to the health of the last comer . 
As far as two pence will go , however , I shall be right glad to do my part . 
Plainly said and bravely spoken , my sucking friar , roared a deep voice , and a heavy hand fell upon Alleyne's shoulder . 
Looking up , he saw beside him his former cloister companion the renegade monk , Hordle John . 
By the thorn of Glastonbury ! ill days are coming upon Beaulieu , said he . 
Then there is the Abbot , too . 
I am no friend of his , nor he of mine but he has warm blood in his veins . 
He is the only man left among them . 
The others , what are they ? They are holy men , Alleyne answered gravely . 
Why , then , did you join the brothers ? asked Alleyne . 
A fair enough question but it is as fairly answered . 
Behind her came a maid with a high pile of wooden plates , and a great sheaf of spoons , one of which she handed round to each of the travellers . 
The room was not unlike a stable . 
The low ceiling , smoke blackened and dingy , was pierced by several square trap doors with rough hewn ladders leading up to them . 
All this was novel and strange to the cloister bred youth but most interesting of all was the motley circle of guests who sat eating their collops round the blaze . 
It did not seem to him from what he could see of it to be such a very wicked place after all . 
His face was swollen and coarse , and his watery protruding eyes spoke of a life which never wandered very far from the wine pot . 
The other , clad in a dirty russet suit with a long sweeping doublet , had a cunning , foxy face with keen , twinkling eyes and a peaky beard . 
In the corner a very fat man was lying all a sprawl upon a truss , snoring stertorously , and evidently in the last stage of drunkenness . 
That is Wat the limner , quoth the landlady , sitting down beside Alleyne , and pointing with the ladle to the sleeping man . 
That is he who paints the signs and the tokens . 
I can well remember that learned brother Bartholomew , who is deep in all the secrets of nature , pointed one out to me as we walked together near Vinney Ridge . 
A falcon or an eagle , quotha ? And pied , that is of two several colors . 
So any man would say except this barrel of lies . 
When I came back the gallon jar was empty , and he lay as you see him , with the board in front of him with this sorry device . 
She raised up a panel which was leaning against the wall , and showed a rude painting of a scraggy and angular fowl , with very long legs and a spotted body . 
Was that , she asked , like the bird which thou hast seen ? Alleyne shook his head , smiling . 
No , nor any other bird that ever wagged a feather . 
It is most like a plucked pullet which has died of the spotted fever . 
The matter is not past mending , said Alleyne . 
I pray you , good dame , to give me those three pigment pots and the brush , and I shall try whether I cannot better this painting . 
The four forest lads must be jogging soon , she said . 
They bide at Emery Down , a mile or more from here . 
Yeomen prickers they are , who tend to the King's hunt . 
The gleeman is called Floyting Will . 
He comes from the north country , but for many years he hath gone the round of the forest from Southampton to Christchurch . 
He drinks much and pays little but it would make your ribs crackle to hear him sing the 'Jest of Hendy Tobias . 
Mayhap he will sing it when the ale has warmed him . 
Who are those next to him ? asked Alleyne , much interested . 
He of the fur mantle has a wise and reverent face . 
He is a seller of pills and salves , very learned in humors , and rheums , and fluxes , and all manner of ailments . 
He wears , as you perceive , the vernicle of Sainted Luke , the first physician , upon his sleeve . 
Thomas of Kent grant that it may be long before either I or mine need his help ! He is here to night for herbergage , as are the others except the foresters . 
His neighbor is a tooth drawer . 
That bag at his girdle is full of the teeth that he drew at Winchester fair . 
I warrant that there are more sound ones than sorry , for he is quick at his work and a trifle dim in the eye . 
The lusty man next him with the red head I have not seen before . 
His year and day are well nigh up , when he will be a free man . 
And the other ? asked Alleyne in a whisper . 
He is surely some very great man , for he looks as though he scorned those who were about him . 
The landlady looked at him in a motherly way and shook her head . 
Look at those shields upon my wall and under my eaves . 
Each of them is the device of some noble lord or gallant knight who hath slept under my roof at one time or another . 
Those are the true gentles . 
But I must away to lay down the beds . 
Sir Humphrey Tennant of Ashby may till his own fields for me , he cried . 
The castle has thrown its shadow upon the cottage over long . 
For three hundred years my folk have swinked and sweated , day in and day out , to keep the wine on the lord's table and the harness on the lord's back . 
Let him take off his plates and delve himself , if delving must be done . 
A proper spirit , my fair son ! said one of the free laborers . 
I would that all men were of thy way of thinking . 
He would have sold me with his acres , the other cried , in a voice which was hoarse with passion . 
'The man , the woman and their litter' so ran the words of the dotard bailiff . 
Never a bullock on the farm was sold more lightly . 
This is a lad of mettle ! shouted another of the laborers . 
He dares to give tongue to what all men think . 
We have as much to fear from the tonsure as from the hauberk . 
Strike at the noble and the priest shrieks , strike at priest and the noble lays his hand upon glaive . 
They are twin thieves who live upon our labor . 
Better that than stealing the deer that thou art placed to guard , like some folk I know . 
If you dare open that swine's mouth against me , shouted the woodman , I'll crop your ears for you before the hangman has the doing of it , thou long jawed lackbrain . 
Nay , gentles , gentles ! cried Dame Eliza , in a singsong heedless voice , which showed that such bickerings were nightly things among her guests . 
No brawling or brabbling , gentles ! Take heed to the good name of the house . 
Besides , if it comes to the cropping of ears , there are other folk who may say their say , quoth the third laborer . 
We are all freemen , and I trow that a yeoman's cudgel is as good as a forester's knife . 
Anselm ! it would be an evil day if we had to bend to our master's servants as well as to our masters . 
No man is my master save the King , the woodman answered . 
Who is there , save a false traitor , who would refuse to serve the English king ? I know not about the English king , said the man Jenkin . 
One noontide I was by Franklin Swinton's gate , when up he rides with a yeoman pricker at his heels . 
'Ouvre , he cried , 'ouvre , or some such word , making signs for me to open the gate and then 'Merci , as though he were adrad of me . 
And you talk of an English king ? I do not marvel at it , cried the Cambrig scholar , speaking in the high drawling voice which was common among his class . 
It is not a tongue for men of sweet birth and delicate upbringing . 
It is a foul , snorting , snarling manner of speech . 
For myself , I swear by the learned Polycarp that I have most ease with Hebrew , and after that perchance with Arabian . 
I will not hear a word said against old King Ned , cried Hordle John in a voice like a bull . 
What if he is fond of a bright eye and a saucy face . 
I know one of his subjects who could match him at that . 
A raw rat , the man of drugs was saying , that is what it is ever my use to order for the plague a raw rat with its paunch cut open . 
Might it not be broiled , most learned sir ? asked the tooth drawer . 
A raw rat sounds a most sorry and cheerless dish . 
Not to be eaten , cried the physician , in high disdain . 
Why should any man eat such a thing ? Why indeed ? asked the gleeman , taking a long drain at his tankard . 
It is to be placed on the sore or swelling . 
Would that cure the black death , master ? asked Jenkin . 
Aye , truly would it , my fair son . 
Then I am right glad that there were none who knew of it . 
The black death is the best friend that ever the common folk had in England . 
How that then ? asked Hordle John . 
Why , friend , it is easy to see that you have not worked with your hands or you would not need to ask . 
When half the folk in the country were dead it was then that the other half could pick and choose who they would work for , and for what wage . 
That is why I say that the murrain was the best friend that the borel folk ever had . 
True , Jenkin , said another workman but it is not all good that is brought by it either . 
There is no great harm in that , remarked the tooth drawer , for the sheep give many folk their living . 
If it come to that . 
said one of the foresters , the tough meat of them will wear folks teeth out , and there is a trade for the man who can draw them . 
Twang us a merry lilt . 
Aye , aye , the 'Lasses of Lancaster , one suggested . 
Or the 'Jest of Hendy Tobias . 
To all these suggestions the jongleur made no response , but sat with his eye fixed abstractedly upon the ceiling , as one who calls words to his mind . 
How can you sing such things ? he cried . 
You , too , an old man who should be an example to others . 
The wayfarers all gazed in the utmost astonishment at the interruption . 
By the holy Dicon of Hampole ! our silent clerk has found his tongue , said one of the woodmen . 
What is amiss with the song then ? How has it offended your babyship ? A milder and better mannered song hath never been heard within these walls , cried another . 
Am I to be preached to by a child ? he cried , staring across at Alleyne with an inflamed and angry countenance . 
Nay , but you will so , said one of the laborers . 
Hi , Dame Eliza , bring a stoup of your best to Will to clear his throat . 
Go forward with thy song , and if our girl faced clerk does not love it he can take to the road and go whence he came . 
Nay , but not too last , broke in Hordle John . 
There are two words in this matter . 
It may be that my little comrade has been over quick in reproof , he having gone early into the cloisters and seen little of the rough ways and words of the world . 
Yet there is truth in what he says , for , as you know well , the song was not of the cleanest . 
I shall stand by him , therefore , and he shall neither be put out on the road , nor shall his ears be offended indoors . 
And so belabored as to be scarce able to crawl along it , cried a third . 
I would not have you brawl about me . 
Hush ! lad , he whispered , I count them not a fly . 
They may find they have more tow on their distaff than they know how to spin . 
Stand thou clear and give me space . 
HOW SAMKIN AYLWARD WAGERED HIS FEATHER BED . 
HE was a middle sized man , of most massive and robust build , with an arching chest and extraordinary breadth of shoulder . 
A white surcoat with the lion of St . 
Ha ! he cried , blinking like an owl in the sudden glare . 
Good even to you , comrades ! Hola ! a woman , by my soul ! and in an instant he had clipped Dame Eliza round the waist and was kissing her violently . 
He then turned back and saluted the landlady once more with the utmost relish and satisfaction . 
La petite is frightened , said he . 
Ah , c'est l'amour , l'amour ! Curse this trick of French , which will stick to my throat . 
I must wash it out with some good English ale . 
The very smell of it seemed life to me . 
They formed in military line , while the soldier stood in front of them with stern eyes , checking off their several packages . 
Number one a French feather bed with the two counter panes of white sandell , said he . 
Here , worthy sir , answered the first of the bearers , laying a great package down in the corner . 
Number two seven ells of red Turkey cloth and nine ells of cloth of gold . 
Put it down by the other . 
Good dame , I prythee give each of these men a bottrine of wine or a jack of ale . 
Three a full piece of white Genoan velvet with twelve ells of purple silk . 
I say yes , dog ! By the three kings ! I have seen a man gasp out his last breath for less . 
Had you gone through the pain and unease that I have done to earn these things you would be at more care . 
I found them , camarades , at the Church of St . 
Denis in the harrying of Narbonne , and I took them away with me lest they fall into the hands of the wicked . 
Five a cloak of fur turned up with minever , a gold goblet with stand and cover , and a box of rose colored sugar . 
See that you lay them together . 
Six a box of monies , three pounds of Limousine gold work , a pair of boots , silver tagged , and , lastly , a store of naping linen . 
So , the tally is complete ! Here is a groat apiece , and you may go . 
Go whither , worthy sir ? asked one of the carriers . 
Whither ? To the devil if ye will . 
What is it to me ? Now , ma belle , to supper . 
A pair of cold capons , a mortress of brawn , or what you will , with a flask or two of the right Gascony . 
I have crowns in my pouch , my sweet , and I mean to spend them . 
Bring in wine while the food is dressing . 
Buvons my brave lads you shall each empty a stoup with me . 
Here was an offer which the company in an English inn at that or any other date are slow to refuse . 
The flagons were re gathered and came back with the white foam dripping over their edges . 
Two of the woodmen and three of the laborers drank their portions off hurriedly and trooped off together , for their homes were distant and the hour late . 
The others , however , drew closer , leaving the place of honor to the right of the gleeman to the free handed new comer . 
His hard set face had softened , and the thick crop of crisp brown curls which had been hidden by his helmet grew low upon his massive neck . 
He might have been forty years of age , though hard toil and harder pleasure had left their grim marks upon his features . 
What was to be made of such a man as that ? It chanced that the soldier looked up and saw the questioning glance which the young clerk threw upon him . 
He raised his flagon and drank to him , with a merry flash of his white teeth . 
A toi , mon garcon , he cried . 
Hast surely never seen a man at arms , that thou shouldst stare so ? I never have , said Alleyne frankly , though I have oft heard talk of their deeds . 
By my hilt ! cried the other , if you were to cross the narrow sea you would find them as thick as bees at a tee hole . 
Couldst not shoot a bolt down any street of Bordeaux , I warrant , but you would pink archer , squire , or knight . 
There are more breastplates than gaberdines to be seen , I promise you . 
And where got you all these pretty things ? asked Hordle John , pointing at the heap in the corner . 
Where there is as much more waiting for any brave lad to pick it up . 
Where a good man can always earn a good wage , and where he need look upon no man as his paymaster , but just reach his hand out and help himself . 
Aye , it is a goodly and a proper life . 
And here I drink to mine old comrades , and the saints be with them ! Arouse all together , me , enfants , under pain of my displeasure . 
To Sir Claude Latour and the White Company ! Sir Claude Latour and the White Company ! shouted the travellers , draining off their goblets . 
Well quaffed , mes braves ! It is for me to fill your cups again , since you have drained them to my dear lads of the white jerkin . 
Hola ! mon ange , bring wine and ale . 
How runs the old stave ? We'll drink all together To the gray goose feather And the land where the gray goose flew . 
He roared out the catch in a harsh , unmusical voice , and ended with a shout of laughter . 
I trust that I am a better bowman than a minstrel , said he . 
Many a time in the after days Alleyne Edricson seemed to see that scene , for all that so many which were stranger and more stirring were soon to crowd upon him . 
Well sung , by my hilt ! shouted the archer in high delight . 
I have seen old John Hawkwood , the same who has led half the Company into Italy , stand laughing in his beard as he heard it , until his plates rattled again . 
But to get the full smack of it ye must yourselves be English bowmen , and be far off upon an outland soil . 
The archer settled himself to it like one who had known what it was to find good food scarce but his tongue still went as merrily as his teeth . 
It passes me , he cried , how all you lusty fellows can bide scratching your backs at home when there are such doings over the seas . 
Look at me what have I to do ? It is but the eye to the cord , the cord to the shaft , and the shaft to the mark . 
There is the whole song of it . 
It is but what you do yourselves for pleasure upon a Sunday evening at the parish village butts . 
And the wage ? asked a laborer . 
You see what the wage brings , he answered . 
I eat of the best , and I drink deep . 
I treat my friend , and I ask no friend to treat me . 
I clap a silk gown on my girl's back . 
Never a knight's lady shall be better betrimmed and betrinketed . 
By my hilt ! camarades , I think that I may let my plunder speak for itself . 
It seems indeed to be a goodly service , said the tooth drawer . 
Tete bleu ! yes , indeed . 
Then there is the chance of a ransom . 
A toi , ma cherie ! said he , with his hand over his heart . 
Hola ! there is la petite peeping from behind the door . 
As I understand it , there was peace made at the town of Bretigny some six years back between our most gracious monarch and the King of the French . 
This being so , it seems most passing strange that you should talk so loudly of war and of companies when there is no quarrel between the French and us . 
Meaning that I lie , said the archer , laying down his knife . 
May heaven forfend ! cried the student hastily . 
Magna est veritas sed rara , which means in the Latin tongue that archers are all honorable men . 
I come to you seeking knowledge , for it is my trade to learn . 
I fear that you are yet a 'prentice to that trade , quoth the soldier for there is no child over the water but could answer what you ask . 
George , and the more so if Sir Nigel Loring , of Christchurch , should don hauberk once more and take the lead of us . 
It is sooth , every word of it , the archer answered . 
I have seen him with these two eyes in a stricken field , and never did man carry himself better . 
What say you , woodman wilt leave the bucks to loose a shaft at a nobler mark ? The forester shook his head . 
I have wife and child at Emery Down , quoth he I would not leave them for such a venture . 
You , then , young sir ? asked the archer . 
Nay , I am a man of peace , said Alleyne Edricson . 
Besides , I have other work to do . 
Peste ! growled the soldier , striking his flagon on the board until the dishes danced again . 
By my hilt ! then , I have found a man at last ! shouted the bowman . 
And , 'fore God , you are a better man than I take you for if you can lay me on my back , mon garcon . 
We have had enough bobance and boasting , said Hordle John , rising and throwing off his doublet . 
I will show you that there are better men left in England than ever went thieving to France . 
Pasques Dieu ! cried the archer , loosening his jerkin , and eyeing his foeman over with the keen glance of one who is a judge of manhood . 
I have only once before seen such a body of a man . 
On the other hand I should judge that you have led a life of ease for some months back , and that my muscle is harder than your own . 
I am ready to wager upon myself against you if you are not afeard . 
Afeard , thou lurden ! growled big John . 
I never saw the face yet of the man that I was afeard of . 
Come out , and we shall see who is the better man . 
But the wager ? I have nought to wager . 
Come out for the love and the lust of the thing . 
Nought to wager ! cried the soldier . 
Why , you have that which I covet above all things . 
It is that big body of thine that I am after . 
See , now , mon garcon . 
I have a French feather bed there , which I have been at pains to keep these years back . 
I had it at the sacking of Issodum , and the King himself hath not such a bed . 
A fair wager ! cried all the travellers , moving back their benches and trestles , so as to give fair field for the wrestlers . 
Then you may bid farewell to your bed , soldier , said Hordle John . 
Nay I shall keep the bed , and I shall have you to France in spite of your teeth , and you shall live to thank me for it . 
Stand forth , and let me clip thee . 
Shalt clip me as best you can then , quoth the archer , moving out into the open space , and keeping a most wary eye upon his opponent . 
He had thrown off his green jerkin , and his chest was covered only by a pink silk jupon , or undershirt , cut low in the neck and sleeveless . 
Hordle John was stripped from his waist upwards , and his huge body , with his great muscles swelling out like the gnarled roots of an oak , towered high above the soldier . 
It would have been hard that night , through the whole length of England , to set up a finer pair in face of each other . 
Then with a sudden dash , so swift and fierce that the eye could scarce follow it , he flew in upon his man and locked his leg round him . 
Ma foi ! cried the bowman , passing his fingers through his curls , you were not far from the feather bed then , mon gar . 
A little more and this good hostel would have a new window . 
Nothing daunted , he approached his man once more , but this time with more caution than before . 
As it was , he dropped upon his feet and kept his balance , though it sent a jar through his frame which set every joint a creaking . 
To Alleyne's eye , it was as if John had taken unto himself wings and flown . 
One more fall , by all the saints ! he cried , throwing out his arms . 
Not I , quoth the archer , pulling on his clothes , I have come well out of the business . 
I would sooner wrestle with the great bear of Navarre . 
It was a trick , cried John . 
By my ten finger bones ! it is a trick that will add a proper man to the ranks of the Company . 
Yet I would fain have had the feather bed . 
I doubt it not , mon ami , quoth the archer , going back to his tankard . 
Suddenly , however , a flash of intelligence had come over his sodden features , and he rose and staggered for the door . 
'Ware the ale ! he said in a hoarse whisper , shaking a warning finger at the company . 
HOW THE THREE COMRADES JOURNEYED THROUGH THE WOODLANDS . 
AT early dawn the country inn was all alive , for it was rare indeed that an hour of daylight would be wasted at a time when lighting was so scarce and dear . 
Once afoot , it was not long before the company began to disperse . 
A sleek mule with red trappings was brought round from some neighboring shed for the physician , and he ambled away with much dignity upon his road to Southampton . 
Hola ! my man of peace , he cried to Alleyne , whither are you bent this morning ? To Minstead , quoth he . 
My brother Simon Edricson is socman there , and I go to bide with him for a while . 
I prythee , let me have my score , good dame . 
Score , indeed ! cried she , standing with upraised hands in front of the panel on which Alleyne had worked the night before . 
Say , rather what it is that I owe to thee , good youth . 
Aye , this is indeed a pied merlin , and with a leveret under its claws , as I am a living woman . 
By the rood of Waltham ! but thy touch is deft and dainty . 
And see the red eye of it ! cried the maid . 
Aye , and the open beak . 
And the ruffled wing , added Hordle John . 
By my hilt ! cried the archer , it is the very bird itself . 
There was , it would seem , great kindness as well as great wickedness in this world , of which he had heard so little that was good . 
It would be shame to the good brothers of Beaulieu if I could not , he answered , seeing that I have been their clerk this ten years back . 
The bowman looked at him with great respect . 
Think of that ! said he . 
And you with not a hair to your face , and a skin like a girl . 
I can make some show at it , said big John though I was scarce long enough among the monks to catch the whole trick of it . 
Here , then , is something to try upon , quoth the archer , pulling a square of parchment from the inside of his tunic . 
It was tied securely with a broad band of purple silk , and firmly sealed at either end with a large red seal . 
John pored long and earnestly over the inscription upon the back , with his brows bent as one who bears up against great mental strain . 
Not having read much of late , he said , I am loth to say too much about what this may be . 
Some might say one thing and some another , just as one bowman loves the yew , and a second will not shoot save with the ash . 
To me , by the length and the look of it , I should judge this to be a verse from one of the Psalms . 
The bowman shook his head . 
It is scarce likely , he said , that Sir Claude Latour should send me all the way across seas with nought more weighty than a psalm verse . 
You have clean overshot the butts this time , mon camarade . 
Give it to the little one . 
I will wager my feather bed that he makes more sense of it . 
Why , it is written in the French tongue , said Alleyne , and in a right clerkly hand . 
Look at that now ! cried the bowman in triumph . 
That is just what he would have said . 
I can see now that it is even so , said John , examining the parchment again . 
Though I scarce understand this high , middle and low . 
By my hilt ! you would understand it if you were Jacques Bonhomme . 
The low justice means that you may fleece him , and the middle that you may torture him , and the high that you may slay him . 
That is about the truth of it . 
But this is the letter which I am to take and since the platter is clean it is time that we trussed up and were afoot . 
You come with me , mon gros Jean and as to you , little one , where did you say that you journeyed ? To Minstead . 
I know this forest country well , though I was born myself in the Hundred of Easebourne , in the Rape of Chichester , hard by the village of Midhurst . 
We shall travel round with you to Minstead lad , seeing that it is little out of our way . 
I am ready , said Alleyne , right pleased at the thought of such company upon the road . 
So am not I. I must store my plunder at this inn , since the hostess is an honest woman . 
I take only the money in a linen bag , and the box of rose colored sugar which is a gift from my captain to the Lady Loring . 
Wilt guard my treasure for me ? It shall be put in the safest loft , good archer . 
Come when you may , you shall find it ready for you . 
Now , there is a true friend ! cried the bowman , taking her hand . 
There is a bonne amie ! English land and English women , say I , and French wine and French plunder . 
I shall be back anon , mon ange . 
I am a lonely man , my sweeting , and I must settle some day when the wars are over and done . 
Mayhap you and I Ah , mechante , mechante ! There is la petite peeping from behind the door . 
Now , John , the sun is over the trees you must be brisker than this when the bugleman blows 'Bows and Bills . 
I have been waiting this time back , said Hordle John gruffly . 
Then we must be off . 
Adieu , ma vie ! The two livres shall settle the score and buy some ribbons against the next kermesse . 
Do not forget Sam Aylward , for his heart shall ever be thine alone and thine , ma petite ! So , marchons , and may St . 
Here and there a small escutcheon , peeping from a glassless window , marked the night's lodging of knight or baron . 
There is the Saracen's head of Sir Bernard Brocas , quoth he . 
I saw him last at the ruffle at Poictiers some ten years back , when he bore himself like a man . 
Three martlets on a field azure , that must be one of the Luttrells . 
There too is the hackle which is the old device of the De Brays . 
I have served under Sir Thomas de Bray , who was as jolly as a pie , and a lusty swordsman until he got too fat for his harness . 
How can a man have too much religion ? cried Alleyne earnestly . 
It is the one thing that availeth . 
A man is but a beast as he lives from day to day , eating and drinking , breathing and sleeping . 
It is only when he raises himself , and concerns himself with the immortal spirit within him , that he becomes in very truth a man . 
Bethink ye how sad a thing it would be that the blood of the Redeemer should be spilled to no purpose . 
Bless the lad , if he doth not blush like any girl , and yet preach like the whole College of Cardinals , cried the archer . 
In truth I blush that any one so weak and so unworthy as I should try to teach another that which he finds it so passing hard to follow himself . 
Prettily said , mon garcon . 
Touching that same slaying of the Redeemer , it was a bad business . 
A good padre in France read to us from a scroll the whole truth of the matter . 
The soldiers came upon him in the garden . 
In truth , these Apostles of His may have been holy men , but they were of no great account as men at arms . 
By these ten finger bones ! had I been there with Black Simon of Norwich , and but one score picked men of the Company , we had held them in play . 
The young clerk smiled at his companion's earnestness . 
And how could man die better ? asked the archer . 
I have heard much even in the quiet cloisters of these new and dreadful engines , quoth Alleyne . 
True enough , my lad . 
Yet I will not deny that at the intaking of a town it is well to have good store of bombards . 
I am told that at Calais they made dints in the wall that a man might put his head into . 
But surely , comrades , some one who is grievously hurt hath passed along this road before us . 
It must be a stricken deer , said John . 
Nay , I am woodman enough to see that no deer hath passed this way this morning and yet the blood is fresh . 
But hark to the sound ! They stood listening all three with sidelong heads . 
The comrades hurried onwards eagerly , and topping the brow of a small rising they saw upon the other side the source from which these strange noises arose . 
A tall man , much stooped in the shoulders , was walking slowly with bended head and clasped hands in the centre of the path . 
He was dressed from head to foot in a long white linen cloth , and a high white cap with a red cross printed upon it . 
Behind him walked a smaller man with his hair touched with gray , who was clad in the same white garb . 
Such a spectacle was new to Hordle John or to Alleyne Edricson but the archer treated it lightly , as a common matter enough . 
These are the Beating Friars , otherwise called the Flagellants , quoth he . 
I marvel that ye should have come upon none of them before , for across the water they are as common as gallybaggers . 
I have heard that there are no English among them , but that they are from France , Italy and Bohemia . 
En avant , camarades ! that we may have speech with them . 
Then at the end of the verse the scourge changed hands and the chanting began anew . 
Truly , holy fathers , said the archer in French as they came abreast of them , you have beaten enough for to day . 
The road is all spotted like a shambles at Martinmas . 
Finding all remonstrance useless , the three comrades hastened on their way , leaving these strange travellers to their dreary task . 
By my hilt ! our young one here is as white as a Picardy cheese . 
What is amiss then , mon cher ? It is nothing , Alleyne answered . 
My life has been too quiet , I am not used to such sights . 
Ma foi ! the other cried , I have never yet seen a man who was so stout of speech and yet so weak of heart . 
Not so , friend , quoth big John it is not weakness of heart for I know the lad well . 
Surely to any man it is a sad sight , said Alleyne , to see these holy men , who have done no sin themselves , suffering so for the sins of others . 
Saints are they , if in this age any may merit so high a name . 
Let them leave their backs alone , and beat the pride out of their hearts . 
By the three kings ! there is sooth in what you say , remarked the archer . 
No , by my hilt ! I should look with a more loving eye upon a jolly archer who never harmed a fallen foe and never feared a hale one . 
Doubtless you mean no sin , said Alleyne . 
If your words are wild , it is not for me to judge them . 
It is for this that these men mortify their flesh , and to set us an example , who would pamper ourselves overmuch . 
I say again that they are God's own saints , and I bow my head to them . 
And so you shall , mon petit , replied the archer . 
I have not heard a man speak better since old Dom Bertrand died , who was at one time chaplain to the White Company . 
He was a very valiant man , but at the battle of Brignais he was spitted through the body by a Hainault man at arms . 
Your Company has been , then , to bow knee before our holy father , the Pope Urban , the prop and centre of Christendom ? asked Alleyne , much interested . 
Perchance you have yourself set eyes upon his august face ? Twice I saw him , said the archer . 
He was a lean little rat of a man , with a scab on his chin . 
The first time we had five thousand crowns out of him , though he made much ado about it . 
Perchance it is as well , for the Company were in need of it about that time . 
The pious Alleyne was deeply shocked by this reminiscence . 
Yet he felt a sense of weight and reproach within his breast , as though he had sinned himself in giving ear to such words . 
The teachings of twenty years cried out against such license . 
HIS companions had passed on whilst he was at his orisons but his young blood and the fresh morning air both invited him to a scamper . 
They were pretty , blue eyed , yellow haired lads , well made and sturdy , with bronzed skins , which spoke of a woodland life . 
Here are young chips from an old bow stave ! cried the soldier in great delight . 
This is the proper way to raise children . 
By my hilt ! I could not have trained them better had I the ordering of it myself , What is it then ? asked Hordle John . 
They stand very stiff , and I trust that they have not been struck so . 
Nay , they are training their left arms , that they may have a steady grasp of the bow . 
So my own father trained me . 
and six days a week I held out his walking staff till my arm was heavy as lead . 
Hola , mes enfants ! how long will you hold out ? Until the sun is over the great lime tree , good master , the elder answered . 
What would ye be , then ? Woodmen ? Verderers ? Nay , soldiers , they cried both together . 
By the beard of my father ! but ye are whelps of the true breed . 
Why so keen , then , to be soldiers ? That we may fight the Scots , they answered . 
Daddy will send us to fight the Scots . 
Our business is with the Scots , quoth the elder for it was the Scots who cut off daddy's string fingers and his thumbs . 
Aye , lads , it was that , said a deep voice from behind Alleyne's shoulder . 
Looking round , the wayfarers saw a gaunt , big boned man , with sunken cheeks and a sallow face , who had come up behind them . 
He held up his two hands as he spoke , and showed that the thumbs and two first fingers had been torn away from each of them . 
Ma foi , camarade ! cried Aylward . 
North of Humber there is no man who would not know the handiwork of Devil Douglas , the black Lord James . 
And how fell you into his hands ? asked John . 
I am a man of the north country , from the town of Beverley and the wapentake of Holderness , he answered . 
There was a day when , from Trent to Tweed , there was no better marksman than Robin Heathcot . 
Yet , as you see , he hath left me , as he hath left many another poor border archer , with no grip for bill or bow . 
Yet the king hath given me a living here in the southlands , and please God these two lads of mine will pay off a debt that hath been owing over long . 
What is the price of daddy's thumbs , boys ? Twenty Scottish lives , they answered together . 
And for the fingers ? Half a score . 
By my soul ! I would give the rest of my fingers to see the Douglas within arrow flight of them . 
May you live to see it , quoth the bowman . 
And hark ye , mes enfants , take an old soldier's rede and lay your bodies to the bow , drawing from hip and thigh as much as from arm . 
I have not drawn string for two weeks , but I may be able to show ye how such shots should be made . 
He loosened his long bow , slung his quiver round to the front , and then glanced keenly round for a fitting mark . 
There was a yellow and withered stump some way off , seen under the drooping branches of a lofty oak . 
Good ! cried the north countryman . 
Hearken to him lads ! He is a master bowman , Your dad says amen to every word he says . 
By my hilt ! said Aylward , if I am to preach on bowmanship , the whole long day would scarce give me time for my sermon . 
But , with your favor , friend , I must gather my arrows again , for while a shaft costs a penny a poor man can scarce leave them sticking in wayside stumps . 
The woods about this point fall away to the left and the right , while the road curves upwards and the wind sweeps keenly over the swelling uplands . 
Tete Dieu ! he growled , were this France , or even Guienne , we should have a fresh haunch for our none meat . 
Law or no law , I have a mind to loose a bolt at her . 
I would break your stave across my knee first , cried John , laying his great hand upon the bow . 
What ! man , I am forest born , and I know what comes of it . 
In our own township of Hordle two have lost their eyes and one his skin for this very thing . 
It is my trade to risk my skin , growled the archer but none the less he thrust his quiver over his hip again and turned his face for the west . 
As they advanced , the path still tended upwards , running from heath into copses of holly and yew , and so back into heath again . 
It was joyful to hear the merry whistle of blackbirds as they darted from one clump of greenery to the other . 
Chattering jays and loud wood pigeons flapped thickly overhead , while ever and anon the measured tapping of Nature's carpenter , the great green woodpecker , sounded from each wayside grove . 
I have a liking for that north countryman , he remarked presently . 
He hath good power of hatred . 
Couldst see by his cheek and eye that he is as bitter as verjuice . 
I warm to a man who hath some gall in his liver . 
Ah me ! sighed Alleyne . 
Would it not be better if he had some love in his heart ? I would not say nay to that . 
By my hilt ! I shall never be said to be traitor to the little king . 
Let a man love the sex . 
Nay , I meant not worldly love , but rather that his heart should soften towards those who have wronged him . 
The archer shook his head . 
A man should love those of his own breed , said he . 
But it is not nature that an English born man should love a Scot or a Frenchman . 
Ma foi ! you have not seen a drove of Nithsdale raiders on their Galloway nags , or you would not speak of loving them . 
I would as soon take Beelzebub himself to my arms . 
I fear , mon gar . 
Alleyne scarce saw his way to argue in the face of so decided an opinion on the part of a high dignitary of the Church . 
You have borne arms against the Scots , then ? he asked . 
Why , man , I first loosed string in battle when I was but a lad , younger by two years than you , at Neville's Cross , under the Lord Mowbray . 
Later , I served under the Warden of Berwick , that very John Copeland of whom our friend spake , the same who held the King of Scots to ransom . 
Ma foi ! it is rough soldiering , and a good school for one who would learn to be hardy and war wise . 
I have heard that the Scots are good men of war , said Hordle John . 
For axemen and for spearmen I have not seen their match , the archer answered . 
They can travel , too , with bag of meal and gridiron slung to their sword belt , so that it is ill to follow them . 
There are scant crops and few beeves in the borderland , where a man must reap his grain with sickle in one fist and brown bill in the other . 
On the other hand , they are the sorriest archers that I have ever seen , and cannot so much as aim with the arbalest , to say nought of the long bow . 
Man for man , with equal weapons , they are as worthy and valiant men as could be found in the whole of Christendom . 
And the French ? asked Alleyne , to whom the archer's light gossip had all the relish that the words of the man of action have for the recluse . 
The French are also very worthy men . 
It is a fool's plan to teach a man to be a cur in peace , and think that he will be a lion in war . 
Fleece them like sheep and sheep they will remain . 
If the nobles had not conquered the poor folk it is like enough that we should not have conquered the nobles . 
But they must be sorry folk to bow down to the rich in such a fashion , said big John . 
I am but a poor commoner of England myself , and yet I know something of charters , liberties franchises , usages , privileges , customs , and the like . 
If these be broken , then all men know that it is time to buy arrow heads . 
Aye , but the men of the law are strong in France as well as the men of war . 
By my hilt ! I hold that a man has more to fear there from the ink pot of the one than from the iron of the other . 
There is ever some cursed sheepskin in their strong boxes to prove that the rich man should be richer and the poor man poorer . 
It would scarce pass in England , but they are quiet folk over the water . 
And what other nations have you seen in your travels , good sir ? asked Alleyne Edricson . 
His young mind hungered for plain facts of life , after the long course of speculation and of mysticism on which he had been trained . 
I have seen the low countryman in arms , and I have nought to say against him . 
By our lady ! they have shown the French at Courtrai and elsewhere that they are as deft in wielding steel as in welding it . 
By my hilt ! it was a sight that was worth the seeing , for all that was best in England was out on the water that day . 
We went Forth in little ships and came back in great galleys for of fifty tall ships of Spain , over two score flew , the Cross of St . 
George ere the sun had set . 
But now , youngster , I have answered you freely , and I trow it is time what you answered me . 
Let things be plat and plain between us . 
I am a man who shoots straight at his mark . 
That comes from my fool's talk , cried the archer for being a man of no learning myself , my tongue turns to blades and targets , even as my hand does . 
Know then that for every parchment in England there are twenty in France . 
For every statue , cut gem , shrine , carven screen , or what else might please the eye of a learned clerk , there are a good hundred to our one . 
At the spoiling of Carcasonne I have seen chambers stored with writing , though not one man in our Company could read them . 
Sickerly the one duty may balance the other . 
Besides , said John , the Socman of Minstead is a by word through the forest , from Bramshaw Hill to Holmesley Walk . 
He is a drunken , brawling , perilous churl , as you may find to your cost . 
The more reason that I should strive to mend him , quoth Alleyne . 
Well , God be with thee , lad ! cried the archer , pressing Alleyne to his heart . 
I am quick to love , and quick to hate and 'fore God I am loth to part . 
Would it not be well , said John , that we should wait here , and see what manner of greeting you have from your brother . 
You may prove to be as welcome as the king's purveyor to the village dame . 
Nay , nay , he answered ye must not bide for me , for where I go I stay . 
Yet it may be as well that you should know whither we go , said the archer . 
There we shall bide , and it is like enough that for a month or more you may find us there , ere we are ready for our viage back to France . 
The archer was standing with folded arms , his bow jutting from over his shoulder , and the sun gleaming brightly upon his head piece and the links of his chain mail . 
Beside him stood his giant recruit , still clad in the home spun and ill fitting garments of the fuller of Lymington , with arms and legs shooting out of his scanty garb . 
Even as Alleyne watched them they turned upon their heels and plodded off together upon their way . 
HOW STRANGE THINGS BEFELL IN MINSTEAD WOOD . 
Beneath lay a broad carpet of the softest and greenest moss , flecked over with fallen leaves , but yielding pleasantly to the foot of the traveller . 
The track which guided him was one so seldom used that in places it lost itself entirely among the grass , to reappear as a reddish rut between the distant tree trunks . 
It was very still here in the heart of the woodlands . 
The fate of the ancestor had been typical of that of his descendants . 
Knowing this , Alleyne felt some little glow of worldly pride as he looked for the first time upon the land with which so many generations of his ancestors had been associated . 
He pushed on the quicker , twirling his staff merrily , and looking out at every turn of the path for some sign of the old Saxon residence . 
He was suddenly arrested , however , by the appearance of a wild looking fellow armed with a club , who sprang out from behind a tree and barred his passage . 
He was a rough , powerful peasant , with cap and tunic of untanned sheepskin , leather breeches , and galligaskins round legs and feet . 
Stand ! he shouted , raising his heavy cudgel to enforce the order . 
Because your tongue may save your pate . 
By the Virgin ! yes . 
You were the little clerk who sat so mum in the corner , and then cried fy on the gleeman . 
What hast in the scrip ? Naught of any price . 
How can I tell that , clerk ? Let me see . 
Not I. Fool ! I could pull you limb from limb like a pullet . 
A fight , quotha ? A fight betwixt spurred cock and new hatched chicken ! Thy fighting days may soon be over . 
Hadst asked me in the name of charity I would have given freely , cried Alleyne . 
As it stands , not one farthing shall you have with my free will , and when I see my brother . 
The outlaw sank his club . 
The Socman's brother ! he gasped . 
Now , by the keys of Peter ! I had rather that hand withered and tongue was palsied ere I had struck or miscalled you . 
If you are the Socman's brother you are one of the right side , I warrant , for all your clerkly dress . 
His brother I am , said Alleyne . 
Ill have I had from them , and ill I shall repay them . 
I am a good friend to my friends , and , by the Virgin ! an evil foeman to my foes . 
And therefore the worst of foemen to thyself , said Alleyne . 
But I pray you , since you seem to know him , to point out to me the shortest path to my brother's house . 
A minute later came the shaggy deer hounds , a dozen or fourteen of them , running on a hot scent , with nose to earth and tail in air . 
As they streamed past the silent forest around broke suddenly into loud life , with galloping of hoofs , crackling of brushwood , and the short , sharp cries of the hunters . 
His figure was erect and soldierly , and he rode his horse with the careless grace of a man whose life had been spent in the saddle . 
Ha ! cried Edward , reining up for an instant his powerful black steed . 
Le cerf est passe ? Non ? Ici , Brocas tu parles Anglais . 
The deer , clowns ? said a hard visaged , swarthy faced man , who rode at the king's elbow . 
If ye have headed it back it is as much as your ears are worth . 
It passed by the blighted beech there , said Alleyne , pointing , and the hounds were hard at its heels . 
It is well , cried Edward , still speaking in French for , though he could understand English , he had never learned to express himself in so barbarous and unpolished a tongue . 
Hubert to the man who is the first to sound the mort . 
The villein took the cruel blow without wince or cry , as one to whom stripes are a birthright and an inheritance . 
His eyes flashed , however , and he shook his bony hand with a fierce wild gesture after the retreating figure . 
Black hound of Gascony , he muttered , evil the day that you and those like you set foot in free England ! I know thy kennel of Rochecourt . 
The night will come when I may do to thee and thine what you and your class have wrought upon mine and me . 
Mix not God's name with these unhallowed threats ! And yet it was a coward's blow , and one to stir the blood and loose the tongue of the most peaceful . 
I pray you not to hold him back , for it would be an evil thing if all the stout lads were there and the leader a missing . 
I would come with you , but sooth to say I am stationed here and may not move . 
The path over yonder , betwixt the oak and the thorn , should bring you out into his nether field . 
Alleyne lost no time in following the directions of the wild , masterless man , whom he left among the trees where he had found him . 
Indeed , of all the things which he had seen yet in the world to surprise him there was none more strange than the hate which class appeared to bear to class . 
In good truth , the commons throughout the length and breadth of the land were heart weary of this fine game of chivalry which had been played so long at their expense . 
The protector had become the protected , and the whole fabric of the feudal system was tottering to a fall . 
Hence the fierce mutterings of the lower classes and the constant discontent , breaking out into local tumult and outrage , and culminating some years later in the great rising of Tyler . 
Alleyne gazed across at it with flushed cheeks and sparkling eyes for this , he knew , must be the home of his fathers . 
In the yellow shimmer of the autumn sunshine it lay as peacefully and as still as he had oft pictured it to himself in his dreams . 
By his side walked a woman , tall and slight and dark , with lithe , graceful figure and clear cut , composed features . 
Good , quiet , uncomplaining mother Nature , long slighted and miscalled , still bide , her time and draws to her bosom the most errant of her children . 
The two walked swiftly across the meadow to the narrow bridge , he in front and she a pace or two behind . 
There they paused , and stood for a few minutes face to face talking earnestly . 
Alleyne had read and had heard of love and of lovers . 
Such were these , doubtless this golden bearded man and the fair damsel with the cold , proud face . 
She stood fearlessly in front of him , still stroking her bird but twice she threw a swift questioning glance over her shoulder , as one who is in search of aid . 
Bird and maid , however , had but little chance against their assailant who , laughing loudly , caught her wrist in one hand while he drew her towards him with the other . 
The best rose has ever the longest thorns , said he . 
Quiet , little one , or you may do yourself a hurt . 
Must pay Saxon toll on Saxon land , my proud Maude , for all your airs and graces . 
You boor ! she hissed . 
You base underbred clod ! Is this your care and your hospitality ? I would rather wed a branded serf from my father's fields . 
Leave go , I say Ah ! good youth , Heaven has sent you . 
Make him loose me ! By the honor of your mother , I pray you to stand by me and to make this knave loose me . 
Stand by you I will , and that blithely . 
Surely , sir , you should take shame to hold the damsel against her will . 
The man turned a face upon him which was lion like in its strength and in its wrath . 
His brows were drawn , his cheek flushed , and there was a mad sparkle in his eyes which spoke of a wild , untamable nature . 
Young fool ! he cried , holding the woman still to his side , though every line of her shrinking figure spoke her abhorrence . 
Do you keep your spoon in your own broth . 
I rede you to go on your way , lest worse befall you . 
This little wench has come with me and with me she shall bide . 
Liar ! cried the woman and , stooping her head , she suddenly bit fiercely into the broad brown hand which held her . 
Stand off my land ! the man said fiercely , heedless of the blood which trickled freely from his fingers . 
By the rood ! if I had my will upon ye , I should nail you upon the abbey doors , as they hang vermin before their holes . 
Art neither man nor woman , young shaveling . 
Get thee back to thy fellows ere I lay hands upon you for your foot is on my land , and I may slay you as a common draw latch . 
Is this your land , then ? gasped Alleyne . 
Begone , I say , and meddle not with my affair . 
If you leave me now , whispered the woman , then shame forever upon your manhood . 
Dog ! cried the furious Socman , there is no man in the south who can saw as much . 
Surely , dear brother , he continued , holding out his hand , you have a warmer greeting than this for me . 
There are but two boughs left upon this old , old Saxon trunk . 
His elder brother dashed his hand aside with an oath , while an expression of malignant hatred passed over his passion drawn features . 
You are the young cub of Beaulieu , then , said he . 
I might have known it by the sleek face and the slavish manner too monk ridden and craven in spirit to answer back a rough word . 
Thy father , shaveling , with all his faults , had a man's heart and there were few who could look him in the eyes on the day of his anger . 
But you ! Look there , rat , on yonder field where the cows graze , and on that other beyond , and on the orchard hard by the church . 
You rob me first , and now you would come preaching and whining , in search mayhap of another field or two for your priestly friends . 
Alleyne , however , as active as a young deer hound , sprang to her aid and seized her by the other arm , raising his iron shod staff as he did so . 
There was a ring in his voice and a flash in his eyes which promised that the blow would follow quick at the heels of the word . 
For a moment the blood of the long line of hot headed thanes was too strong for the soft whisperings of the doctrine of meekness and mercy . 
Come ! gasped the woman . 
Fly , friend , ere he come back . 
Nay , let him come ! cried Alleyne . 
I shall not budge a foot for him or his dogs . 
Come , come ! she cried , tugging at his arm . 
I know the man he will kill you . 
Come , for the Virgin's sake , or for my sake , for I cannot go and leave you here . 
Come , then , said he and they ran together to the cover of the woods . 
He held something which flashed in his right hand , and he stooped at the threshold to unloose the black hound . 
This way ! the woman whispered , in a low eager voice . 
Through the bushes to that forked ash . 
Do not heed me I can run as fast as you , I trow . 
Now into the stream right in , over ankles , to throw the dog off , though I think it is but a common cur , like its master . 
Alleyne followed close at her heels , with his mind in a whirl at this black welcome and sudden shifting of all his plans and hopes . 
She promised as much last week , when I fell into Wilverly bog , and yet she knows that I cannot abide needle work . 
We had best on , he said . 
He may yet overtake us . 
We are well off his land now , nor can he tell in this great wood which way we have taken . 
But you you had him at your mercy . 
Why did you not kill him ? Kill him ! My brother ! And why not ? with a quick gleam of her white teeth . 
He would have killed you . 
I know him , and I read it in his eyes . 
Had I had your staff I would have tried aye , and done it , too . 
She shook her clenched white hand as she spoke , and her lips tightened ominously . 
I am already sad in heart for what I have done , said he , sitting down on the bank , and sinking his face into his hands . 
God help me ! all that is worst in me seemed to come uppermost . 
Another instant , and I had smitten him the son of my own mother , the man whom I have longed to take to my heart . 
Alas ! that I should still be so weak . 
Weak ! she exclaimed , raising her black eyebrows . 
I do not think that even my father himself , who is a hard judge of manhood , would call you that . 
It is a sad thing that so small a thing as a woman should come between two who are of one blood . 
Simple Alleyne opened his eyes at this little spurt of feminine bitterness . 
Nay , lady , said he , that were worst of all . 
But , indeed , lady , I am torn both ways , and can scarce grasp in my mind what it is that has befallen . 
Nor can I marvel at that , said she , with a little tinkling laugh . 
You came in as the knight does in the jongleur's romances , between dragon and damsel , with small time for the asking of questions . 
If poor Troubadour had not cast a shoe , we should not have had this trouble . 
Nay , I must have your arm for , though I speak lightly , now that all is happily over I am as frightened as my brave Roland . 
See how his chest heaves , and his dear feathers all awry the little knight who would not have his lady mishandled . 
So she prattled on to her hawk , while Alleyne walked by her side , stealing a glance from time to time at this queenly and wayward woman . 
In silence they wandered together over the velvet turf and on through the broad Minstead woods , where the old lichen draped beeches threw their circles of black shadow upon the sunlit sward . 
You have no wish , then , to hear my story ? said she , at last . 
If it pleases you to tell it me , he answered . 
Oh ! she cried tossing her head , if it is of so little interest to you , we had best let it bide . 
Nay , said he eagerly , I would fain hear it . 
You have a right to know it , if you have lost a brother's favor through it . 
Nay , trouble not for that , said Alleyne , we are all from good mother Eve . 
Streams may spring from one source , and yet some be clear and some be foul , quoth she quickly . 
Small harm then , but that my horse Troubadour trod with a tender foot upon a sharp stick , rearing and throwing me to the ground . 
See to my gown , the third that I have befouled within the week . 
Wo worth me when Agatha the tire woman sets eyes upon it ! And what then , lady ? asked Alleyne . 
Why , then away ran Troubadour , for belike I spurred him in falling , and Bertrand rode after him as hard as hoofs could bear him . 
By the grace of the Virgin and the help of my patron St . 
Magdalen , I stopped short ere I reached his door , though , as you saw , he strove to hale me up to it . 
And then ah h h h ! she shivered and chattered like one in an ague fit . 
What is it ? cried Alleyne , looking about in alarm . 
Nothing , friend , nothing ! I was but thinking how I bit into his hand . 
Sooner would I bite living toad or poisoned snake . 
It was a small thing , he answered , with a tingle of pleasure at these sweet words of praise . 
Then hey for home , and no more hawking to day ! A twelve mile gallop will dry feet and skirt . 
But your father ? Not one word shall I tell him . 
You do not know him but I can tell you he is not a man to disobey as I have disobeyed him . 
He would avenge me , it is true , but it is not to him that I shall look for vengeance . 
Say , is not that a brave plan ? Nay , lady , it is a thought which is unworthy of you . 
How can such as you speak of violence and of vengeance . 
To hear such words from your lips is as though I heard an angel of grace preaching the devil's own creed . 
She started from him as a young colt who first feels the bit . 
Gramercy for your rede , young sir ! she said , with a little curtsey . 
As I understand your words , you are grieved that you ever met me , and look upon me as a preaching devil . 
Why , my father is a bitter man when he is wroth , but hath never called me such a name as that . 
It may be his right and duty , but certes it is none of thine . 
So saying , with downcast lids and a dignity which was somewhat marred by her bedraggled skirt , she swept off down the muddy track , leaving Alleyne standing staring ruefully after her . 
He waited in vain for some backward glance or sign of relenting , but she walked on with a rigid neck until her dress was only a white flutter among the leaves . 
I shall not vex you , nor even speak , she said but I would fain keep with you while we are in the wood . 
Nay , you cannot vex me , he answered , all warm again at the very sight of her . 
Then unsay it , cried she quickly say that I was right to wish to have vengeance on the Socman . 
Nay , I cannot do that , he answered gravely . 
Then who is ungentle and unkind now ? she cried in triumph . 
How stern and cold you are for one so young ! Art surely no mere clerk , but bishop or cardinal at the least . 
Shouldst have crozier for staff and mitre for cap . 
Well , well , for your sake I will forgive the Socman and take vengeance on none but on my own wilful self who must needs run into danger's path . 
So will that please you , sir ? There spoke your true self , said he and you will find more pleasure in such forgiveness than in any vengeance . 
He sat perched on a high bay horse , and held on to the bridle of a spirited black palfrey , the hides of both glistening from a long run . 
I have sought you everywhere , dear Lady Maude , said he in a piping voice , springing down from his horse and holding the stirrup . 
Troubadour galloped as far as Holmhill ere I could catch him . 
I trust that you have had no hurt or scath ? He shot a questioning glance at Alleyne as he spoke . 
No , Bertrand , said she , thanks to this courteous stranger . 
And now , sir , she continued , springing into her saddle , it is not fit that I leave you without a word more . 
Clerk or no , you have acted this day as becomes a true knight . 
King Arthur and all his table could not have done more . 
It may be that , as some small return , my father or his kin may have power to advance your interest . 
He is not rich , but he is honored and hath great friends . 
Tell me what is your purpose , and see if he may not aid it . 
Alas ! lady , I have now no purpose . 
I have but two friends in the world , and they have gone to Christchurch , where it is likely I shall join them . 
And where is Christchurch ? At the castle which is held by the brave knight , Sir Nigel Loring , constable to the Earl of Salisbury . 
To his surprise she burst out a laughing , and , spurring her palfrey , dashed off down the glade , with her page riding behind her . 
Not one word did she say , but as she vanished amid the trees she half turned in her saddle and waved a last greeting . 
At last he turned away and made his way back to the high road another person from the light hearted boy who had left it a short three hours before . 
CHAPTER X. HOW HORDLE JOHN FOUND A MAN WHOM HE MIGHT FOLLOW . 
North , south , east , and west he might turn where he would , but all was equally chill and cheerless . 
The Abbot had rolled ten silver crowns in a lettuce leaf and hid them away in the bottom of his scrip , but that would be a sorry support for twelve long months . 
In all the darkness there was but the one bright spot of the sturdy comrades whom he had left that morning if he could find them again all would be well . 
The afternoon was not very advanced , for all that had befallen him . 
When a man is afoot at cock crow much may be done in the day . 
If he walked fast he might yet overtake his friends ere they reached their destination . 
He pushed on therefore , now walking and now running . 
As he journeyed he bit into a crust which remained from his Beaulieu bread , and he washed it down by a draught from a woodland stream . 
Alleyne , however , had the good fortune to fall in with a woodman , axe upon shoulder , trudging along in the very direction that he wished to go . 
They plodded along together , the woodman and Alleyne , with little talk on either side , for their thoughts were as far asunder as the poles . 
Down this he pushed as fast as he might , hoping at every turn and rise to catch sight of his companions of the morning . 
Clouds of insects danced and buzzed in the golden autumn light , and the air was full of the piping of the song birds . 
Long , glinting dragonflies shot across the path , or hung tremulous with gauzy wings and gleaming bodies . 
By his black robe and the eight pointed cross upon his sleeve , Alleyne recognized him as one of the Knights Hospitallers of St . 
John of Jerusalem , whose presbytery was at Baddesley . 
Poor simple lad ! he had not learned yet that what men are and what men profess to be are very wide asunder , and that the Knights of St . 
A few great drops came pattering loudly down , and then in a moment the steady swish of a brisk shower , with the dripping and dropping of the leaves . 
Alleyne , glancing round for shelter , saw a thick and lofty holly bush , so hollowed out beneath that no house could have been drier . 
Under this canopy of green two men were already squatted , who waved their hands to Alleyne that he should join them . 
It was easy to see by their dress and manner that they were two of those wandering students who formed about this time so enormous a multitude in every country in Europe . 
Come hither , good youth , he cried , come hither ! Vultus ingenui puer . 
Heed not the face of my good coz here . 
Foenum habet in cornu , as Dan Horace has it but I warrant him harmless for all that . 
Stint your bull's bellowing ! exclaimed the other . 
That being so , if all were men of sense then thou wouldst be a lonesome man , coz . 
Tut , tut ! cried the other . 
Your tongue goes like the clapper of a mill wheel . 
Sit down here , friend , and partake of this herring . 
Understand first , however , that there are certain conditions attached to it . 
I had hoped , said Alleyne , falling into the humor of the twain , that a tranchoir of bread and a draught of milk might be attached to it . 
Hark to him , hark to him ! cried the little fat man . 
It is even thus , Dicon ! Wit , lad , is a catching thing , like the itch or the sweating sickness . 
I exude it round me it is an aura . 
I tell you , coz , that no man can come within seventeen feet of me without catching a spark . 
Look at your own case . 
Enough , rattle pate , enough ! said the other . 
The milk you shall have and the bread also , friend , together with the herring , but you must hold the scales between us . 
If he hold the herring he holds the scales , my sapient brother , cried the fat man . 
But I pray you , good youth , to tell us whether you are a learned clerk , and , if so , whether you have studied at Oxenford or at Paris . 
I have some small stock of learning , Alleyne answered , picking at his herring , but I have been at neither of these places . 
I was bred amongst the Cistercian monks at Beaulieu Abbey . 
Pooh , pooh ! they cried both together . 
What sort of an upbringing is that ? Non cuivis contingit adire Corinthum , quoth Alleyne . 
Come , brother Stephen , he hath some tincture of letters , said the melancholy man more hopefully . 
He may be the better judge , since he hath no call to side with either of us . 
Now , attention , friend , and let your ears work as well as your nether jaw . 
Judex damnatur you know the old saw . 
Here am I upholding the good fame of the learned Duns Scotus against the foolish quibblings and poor silly reasonings of Willie Ockham . 
Solomon his wisdom would not suffice to say what the rogue means . 
Certes , Stephen Hapgood , his wisdom doth not suffice , cried the other . 
It is as though a mole cried out against the morning star , because he could not see it . 
But our dispute , friend , is concerning the nature of that subtle essence which we call thought . 
Never had he heard such jargon of scholastic philosophy , such fine drawn distinctions , such cross fire of major and minor , proposition , syllogism , attack and refutation . 
Question clattered upon answer like a sword on a buckler . 
Suddenly , however , his eyes dropped upon his food , and he gave a howl of dismay . 
You double thief ! he cried , you have eaten my herrings , and I without bite or sup since morning . 
That , quoth the other complacently , was my final argument , my crowning effort , or peroratio , as the orators have it . 
For , coz , since all thoughts are things , you have but to think a pair of herrings , and then conjure up a pottle of milk wherewith to wash them down . 
A brave piece of reasoning , cried the other , and I know of but one reply to it . 
On which , leaning forward , he caught his comrade a rousing smack across his rosy cheek . 
Nay , take it not amiss , he said , since all things are but thoughts , then that also is but a thought and may be disregarded . 
Here and there by the wayside stood little knots of wattle and daub huts with shock haired laborers lounging by the doors and red cheeked children sprawling in the roadway . 
By these signs Alleyne knew that he was on the very fringe of the forest , and therefore no great way from Christchurch . 
Mort de ma vie ! Aylward shouted , looking down at the dice . 
Never had I such cursed luck . 
A murrain on the bones ! I have not thrown a good main since I left Navarre . 
A one and a three ! En avant , camarade ! Four and three , cried Hordle John , counting on his great fingers , that makes seven . 
Ho , archer , I have thy cap ! Now have at thee for thy jerkin ! Mon Dieu ! he growled , I am like to reach Christchurch in my shirt . 
Hast come to stop ? cried the bowman , patting Alleyne all over in his delight . 
Shall not get away from us again ! I wish no better , said he , with a pringling in the eyes at this hearty greeting . 
Well said , lad ! cried big John . 
We three shall to the wars together , and the devil may fly away with the Abbot of Beaulieu ! But your feet and hosen are all besmudged . 
Hast been in the water , or I am the more mistaken . 
What then ? asked Alleyne , trotting after him and gripping at his jerkin . 
I am back for Minstead , lad . 
And why , in the name of sense ? To thrust a handful of steel into the Socman . 
What ! hale a demoiselle against her will , and then loose dogs at his own brother ! Let me go ! Nenny , nenny ! cried Alleyne , laughing . 
There was no scath done . 
Come back , friend and so , by mingled pushing and entreaties , they got his head round for Christchurch once more . 
But you , said Alleyne , there have been changes with you also . 
And I found him an over apt pupil , grumbled the bowman . 
He hath stripped me as though I had fallen into the hands of the tardvenus . 
Take them back , man , and never heed the pay , said John . 
I did but wish to learn the feel of them , since I am like to have such trinkets hung to my own girdle for some years to come . 
Ma foi , he was born for a fr companion ! cried Aylward , He hath the very trick of speech and turn of thought . 
I take them back then , and indeed it gives me unease not to feel my yew stave tapping against my leg bone . 
Red upon white , said Alleyne , shading his eyes but whether roebuck or no is more than I could vouch . 
So saying , he quickened his pace , and the three comrades were soon close to the straggling and broad spread town which centered round the noble church and the frowning castle . 
Two russet clad varlets , with loud halloo and cracking whips , walked thigh deep amid the swarm , guiding , controlling , and urging . 
Sir Nigel was a slight man of poor stature , with soft lisping voice and gentle ways . 
So short was he that his wife , who was no very tall woman , had the better of him by the breadth of three fingers . 
His age was six and forty , but the constant practice of arms . 
together with a cleanly life , had preserved his activity and endurance unimpaired , so that from a distance he seemed to have the slight limbs and swift grace of a boy . 
His features were small , delicate , and regular , with clear cut , curving nose , and eyes which jutted forward from the lids . 
His dress was simple and yet spruce . 
His cote hardie , or tunic , and trunk hosen were of a purple plum color , with long weepers which hung from either sleeve to below his knees . 
His shoes were of red leather , daintily pointed at the toes , but not yet prolonged to the extravagant lengths which the succeeding reign was to bring into fashion . 
A gold embroidered belt of knighthood encircled his loins , with his arms , five roses gules on a field argent , cunningly worked upon the clasp . 
So stood Sir Nigel Loring upon the bridge of Avon , and talked lightly with his lady . 
Her face was large and square and red , with fierce , thick brows , and the eyes of one who was accustomed to rule . 
Taller and broader than her husband , her flowing gown of sendall , and fur lined tippet , could not conceal the gaunt and ungraceful outlines of her figure . 
It was the age of martial women . 
The deeds of black Agnes of Dunbar , of Lady Salisbury and of the Countess of Montfort , were still fresh in the public minds . 
Right easy were the Montacutes of their Castle of Twynham , and little had they to dread from roving galley or French squadron , while Lady Mary Loring had the ordering of it . 
Yet even in that age it was thought that , though a lady might have a soldier's heart , it was scarce as well that she should have a soldier's face . 
Lent her by Father Christopher of the priory , forsooth that is ever her answer . 
The maid is like the young filly , which kicks heels and plunges for very lust of life . 
Give her time , dame , give her time . 
Well , I know that my father would have given me , not time , but a good hazel stick across my shoulders . 
Ma foi ! I know not what the world is coming to , when young maids may flout their elders . 
I wonder that you do not correct her , my fair lord . 
Nay , my heart's comfort , I never raised hand to woman yet , and it would be a passing strange thing if I began on my own flesh and blood . 
The hussy ! cried Lady Loring clenching her broad right hand . 
I would I had been at the side of her ! And so would I , since you would have been the nearer me my own . 
I hear that there is talk of warlike muster at Bordeaux once more , and by St . 
Now wo worth me but I feared it ! cried she , with the color all struck from her face . 
I have noted your absent mind , your kindling eye , your trying and rivetting of old harness . 
It is sooth that I have received seven and twenty wounds . 
There is the more reason that I should be thankful that I am still long of breath and sound in limb . 
I have also seen some bickering and scuffling . 
Six great land battles I count , with four upon sea , and seven and fifty onfalls , skirmishes and bushments . 
I have held two and twenty towns , and I have been at the intaking of thirty one . 
Besides , bethink you how low is our purse , with bailiff and reeve ever croaking of empty farms and wasting lands . 
Were it not for this constableship which the Earl of Salisbury hath bestowed upon us we could scarce uphold the state which is fitting to our degree . 
Therefore , my sweeting , there is the more need that I should turn to where there is good pay to be earned and brave ransoms to be won . 
Ah , my dear lord , quoth she , with sad , weary eyes . 
I thought that at last I had you to mine own self , even though your youth had been spent afar from my side . 
Yet my voice , as I know well , should speed you on to glory and renown , not hold you back when fame is to be won . 
Yet what can I say , for all men know that your valor needs the curb and not the spur . 
And whose fault that , my sweet bird ? said he . 
It is a most knightly largesse , and yet withouten money how can man rise ? Dirt and dross ! cried he . 
What matter rise or fall , so that duty be done and honor gained . 
But meanwhile fret not thyself , my heart's dove , for it is like that there may be no war waged , and we must await the news . 
But here are three strangers , and one , as I take it , a soldier fresh from service . 
It is likely that he may give us word of what is stirring over the water . 
Hard face , battered head piece , dinted brigandine , with faded red lion of St . 
George ramping on a discolored ground , all proclaimed as plainly as words that he was indeed from the land of war . 
I have drawn string besides you at La Roche d'Errien , Romorantin , Maupertuis , Nogent , Auray , and other places . 
Then , good archer , I am right glad to welcome you to Twynham Castle , and in the steward s room you will find provant for yourself and comrades . 
To me also your face is known , though mine eyes play such tricks with me that I can scarce be sure of my own squire . 
There was talk of it in Bordeaux , answered the archer , and I saw myself that the armorers and smiths were as busy as rats in a wheat rick . 
But I bring you this letter from the valiant Gascon knight , Sir Claude Latour . 
You see , dear heart , said he , that they will not leave the old dog in his kennel when the game is afoot . 
Sir , we have been in the wars together , and I have seen many a brave following but never such a set of woodland boys as this . 
Your name , good archer ? Sam Aylward , sir , of the Hundred of Easebourne and the Rape of Chichester . 
And this giant behind you ? He is big John , of Hordle , a forest man , who hath now taken service in the Company . 
A proper figure of a man at arms , said the little knight . 
Why , man , you are no chicken , yet I warrant him the stronger man . 
See to that great stone from the coping which hath fallen upon the bridge . 
Four of my lazy varlets strove this day to carry it hence . 
I would that you two could put them to shame by budging it , though I fear that I overtask you , for it is of a grievous weight . 
He pointed as he spoke to a huge rough hewn block which lay by the roadside , deep sunken from its own weight in the reddish earth . 
The archer approached it , rolling back the sleeves of his jerkin , but with no very hopeful countenance , for indeed it was a mighty rock . 
There it fell with mighty splash , one jagged end peaking out above the surface , while the waters bubbled and foamed with far circling eddy . 
Good lack ! cried Sir Nigel , and Good lack ! cried his lady , while John stood laughing and wiping the caked dirt from his fingers . 
I have felt his arms round my ribs , said the bowman , and they crackle yet at the thought of it . 
This other comrade of mine is a right learned clerk , for all that he is so young , hight Alleyne , the son of Edric , brother to the Socman of Minstead . 
Young man , quoth Sir Nigel , sternly , if you are of the same way of thought as your brother , you may not pass under portcullis of mine . 
And are you , too , of the White Company ? asked Sir Nigel . 
Hast had small experience of war , if I may judge by your looks and bearing . 
I would fain to France with my friends here , Alleyne answered but I am a man of peace a reader , exorcist , acolyte , and clerk . 
That need not hinder , quoth Sir Nigel . 
No , fair sir , cried the bowman joyously . 
Why , I myself have served two terms with Arnold de Cervolles , he whom they called the archpriest . 
By my hilt ! I have seen him ere now , with monk's gown trussed to his knees , over his sandals in blood in the fore front of the battle . 
But , my soul's bird , you hear me prate as though all were decided , when I have not yet taken counsel either with you or with my lady mother . 
Let us to the chamber , while these strangers find such fare as pantry and cellar may furnish . 
The night air strikes chill , said the lady , and turned down the road with her hand upon her lord's arm . 
What ails the man ? asked Aylward in surprise . 
I have been cozened and bejaped , quoth he gruffly . 
By whom , Sir Samson the strong ? By thee , Sir Balaam the false prophet . 
By my hilt ! cried the archer , I though I be not Balaam , yet I hold converse with the very creature that spake to him . 
Is that where the shoe galls ? cried the bowman , and laughed aloud . 
There was deep mouthed shouting of men , frightened shrieks of women , howling and barking of curs , and over all a sullen , thunderous rumble , indescribably menacing and terrible . 
To right and left the folk flew for arch and doorway . 
He , however , blinking with puckered eyes , reached up his kerchief , and flicked the beast twice across the snout with it . 
As they passed through the castle gate , John plucked at Aylward's sleeve , and the two fell behind . 
I must crave your pardon , comrade , said he , bluntly . 
I was a fool not to know that a little rooster may be the gamest . 
I believe that this man is indeed a leader whom we may follow . 
HOW A YOUNG SHEPHERD HAD A PERILOUS FLOCK . 
At the same instant the huge portcullis came rattling down from above , and shut off the last fading light of day . 
To Alleyne and to John , however , it appeared to be as great and as stout a fortress as could be built by the hands of man . 
Sir Nigel's trust , however , still frowned above the smooth flowing waters of the Avon , very much as the stern race of early Anglo Normans had designed it . 
There were the broad outer and inner bailies , not paved , but sown with grass to nourish the sheep and cattle which might be driven in on sign of danger . 
Against the bailey walls were rows of frail wooden houses and leaning sheds , which gave shelter to the archers and men at arms who formed the garrison . 
The air was full of the clack of their voices and the merry prattling of children , in strange contrast to the flash of arms and constant warlike challenge from the walls above . 
Methinks a company of school lads could hold this place against an army , quoth John . 
And so say I , said Alleyne . 
Nay , there you are wide of the clout , the bowman said gravely . 
By my hilt ! I have seen a stronger fortalice carried in a summer evening . 
I remember such a one in Picardy , with a name as long as a Gascon's pedigree . 
It was when I served under Sir Robert Knolles , before the days of the Company and we came by good plunder at the sacking of it . 
I had myself a great silver bowl , with two goblets , and a plastron of Spanish steel . 
Pasques Dieu ! there are some fine women over yonder ! Mort de ma vie ! see to that one in the doorway ! I will go speak to her . 
But whom have we here ? Is there an archer here hight Sam Aylward ? asked a gaunt man at arms , clanking up to them across the courtyard . 
My name , friend , quoth the bowman . 
Then sure I have no need to tell thee mine , said the other . 
By the rood ! if it is not Black Simon of Norwich ! cried Aylward . 
A mon coeur , camarade , a mon coeur ! Ah , but I am blithe to see thee ! The two fell upon each other and hugged like bears . 
And where from , old blood and bones ? asked the bowman . 
I am in service here . 
It is like enough , mon gar . 
Now may the Lord be praised ! cried the other . 
This very night will I set apart a golden ouche to be offered on the shrine of my name saint . 
I have pined for this , Aylward , as a young maid pines for her lover . 
It was ever share and share between us . 
Nay , friend , it is not the Frenchman's gold , but the Frenchman's blood that I would have . 
I should not rest quiet in the grave , coz , if I had not another turn at them . 
For with us in France it has ever been fair and honest war a shut fist for the man , but a bended knee for the woman . 
They found her afterwards by her own hearthstone , thrust through by a Frenchman's bill . 
My second sister , my brother's wife , and her two children , they were but ash heaps in the smoking ruins of their house . 
I will not say that we have not wrought great scath upon France , but women and children have been safe from us . 
We have seen good work together , old war dog , quoth Aylward and , by my hilt ! we may hope to see more ere we die . 
But , comrade , it is in my mind that there is some small matter of dispute still open between us . 
'Fore God , it is sooth ! cried the other I had forgot it . 
The provost marshal and his men tore us apart when last we met . 
On which , friend , we vowed that we should settle the point when next we came together . 
Hast thy sword , I see , and the moon throws glimmer enough for such old night birds as we . 
On guard , mon gar . 
! I have not heard clink of steel this month or more . 
Out from the shadow then , said the other , drawing his sword . 
A vow is a vow , and not lightly to be broken . 
Fall on , Aylward ! Not whilst I can stand between you , cried Alleyne , springing before the bowman . 
It is shame and sin to see two Christian Englishmen turn swords against each other like the frenzied bloodthirsty paynim . 
By the black rood ! I shall drive him into the earth , like a nail into a door , rather than see you do scath to each other . 
'Fore God , this is a strange way of preaching peace , cried Black Simon . 
You may find the scath yourself , my lusty friend , if you raise your great cudgel to me . 
I had as lief have the castle drawbridge drop upon my pate . 
Not I , in troth , replied the other I have had other things to think of . 
There was some sort of bickering over dice , or wine , or was it a woman , coz ? Pasques Dieu ! but you have nicked it , cried Aylward . 
It was indeed about a woman and the quarrel must go forward , for I am still of the same mind as before . 
What of the woman , then ? asked Simon . 
May the murrain strike me if I can call to mind aught about her . 
It was La Blanche Rose , maid at the sign of the 'Trois Corbeaux' at Limoges . 
Bless her pretty heart ! Why , mon gar . 
So did a many , quoth Simon . 
I call her to mind now . 
On the very day that we fought over the little hussy , she went off with Evan ap Price , a long legged Welsh dagsman . 
So ends our quarrel , then , said Aylward , sheathing his sword . 
A Welsh dagsman , i' faith ! C'etait mauvais goot , camarade , and the more so when she had a jolly archer and a lusty man at arms to choose from . 
You know him of old , and that he is like to be as good as his word . 
But there are ale , mead , and wine in the buttery , and the steward a merry rogue , who will not haggle over a quart or two . 
, for it is not every day that two old friends come together . 
The old soldiers and Hordle John strode off together in all good fellowship . 
Alleyne had turned to follow them , when he felt a touch upon his shoulder , and found a young page by his side . 
The Lord Loring commands , said the boy , that you will follow me to the great chamber , and await him there . 
But my comrades ? His commands were for you alone . 
As designed at first , no dwelling had been allotted to the lord of the castle and his family but the dark and dismal basement storey of the keep . 
Up the broad steps Alleyne went , still following his boyish guide , until at the folding oak doors the latter paused , and ushered him into the main hall of the castle . 
The days had gone by when a nobleman's hall was but a barn like , rush strewn enclosure , the common lounge and eating room of every inmate of the castle . 
Hence , in most English castles , and in Castle Twynham among the rest , chambers were to be found which would seem to be not wanting either in beauty or in comfort . 
At the further end was a long black buffet or dresser , thickly covered with gold cups , silver salvers , and other such valuables . 
He was brought back to himself , however , by a sudden little ripple of quick feminine laughter . 
Aghast , he dropped the manuscript among the chessmen and stared in bewilderment round the room . 
It was as empty and as still as ever . 
Again he stretched his hand out to the romance , and again came that roguish burst of merriment . 
He looked up at the ceiling , back at the closed door , and round at the stiff folds of motionless tapestry . 
Alleyne started with astonishment as he recognized the very maiden who had suffered from his brother's violence in the forest . 
Ah , you start , said she , with the same sidelong look of mischief , and I cannot marvel at it . 
Didst not look to see the distressed damosel again . 
I had counted on my brother's love , but God has willed that it should be otherwise . 
It is a joy to me to see you again , lady , and to know that you have reached home in safety , if this be indeed your home . 
You drew back and came forward with your eyes upon my book there , like the mouse who sniffs the cheese and yet dreads the trap . 
I take shame , said Alleyne , that I should have touched it . 
Nay , it warmed my very heart to see it . 
So glad was I , that I laughed for very pleasure . 
My fine preacher can himself be tempted then , thought I he is not made of another clay to the rest of us . 
God help me ! I am the weakest of the weak , groaned Alleyne . 
I pray that I may have more strength . 
And to what end ? she asked sharply . 
She turned from him with a pretty shrug and wave . 
Is that all ? she said . 
Then you are no better than Father Christopher and the rest of them . 
There is sooth in what you say , lady , Alleyne answered and yet I scarce can see what you would have the clergy and the church to do . 
I would have them live as others and do men's work in the world , preaching by their lives rather than their words . 
Nay , I know him not . 
I have learned it by looking from my own chamber window and marking these poor monks of the priory , their weary life , their profitless round . 
I have asked myself if the best which can be done with virtue is to shut it within high walls as though it were some savage creature . 
Yet in an instant she had changed again to her old expression of merriment leavened with mischief . 
Wilt do what I ask ? said she . 
What is it , lady ? Oh , most ungallant clerk ! A true knight would never have asked , but would have vowed upon the instant . 
'Tis but to bear me out in what I say to my father . 
In what ? In saying , if he ask , that it was south of the Christchurch road that I met you . 
I shall not answer him if he ask . 
Not answer ! But he will have an answer . 
Nay , but you must not fail me , or it will go ill with me . 
She was back again in an instant , however , in another of her varying moods . 
Look at that , my friend ! said she . 
If you had been shut up in abbey or in cell this day you could not have taught a wayward maiden to abide by the truth . 
Is it not so ? What avail is the shepherd if he leaves his sheep . 
A sorry shepherd ! said Alleyne humbly . 
But here is your noble father . 
And you shall see how worthy a pupil I am . 
All this she reeled off in a loud voice , and then glanced with sidelong , questioning eyes at Alleyne for his approval . 
Sir Nigel , who had entered the room with a silvery haired old lady upon his arm , stared aghast at this sudden outburst of candor . 
Yet , hush ! little one , for your fair lady mother will be here anon , and there is no need that she should know it . 
We will keep you from the provost marshal this journey . 
Away to your chamber , sweeting , and keep a blithe face , for she who confesses is shriven . 
And now , fair mother , he continued , when his daughter had gone , sit you here by the fire , for your blood runs colder than it did . 
Alleyne Edricson , I would have a word with you , for I would fain that you should take service under me . 
For I have formed a good opinion of you , and can see that you are one who may be trusted , said the Lady Loring . 
You have seen the cloisters it were well that you should see the world too , ere you make choice for life between them . 
It was for that very reason that my father willed that I should come forth into the world at my twentieth year , said Alleyne . 
You can ride ? asked Sir Nigel , looking at the youth with puckered eyes . 
Yes , I have ridden much at the abbey . 
Yet there is a difference betwixt a friar's hack and a warrior's destrier . 
You can sing and play ? On citole , flute and rebeck . 
Good ! You can read blazonry ? Indifferent well . 
Then read this , quoth Sir Nigel , pointing upwards to one of the many quarterings which adorned the wall over the fireplace . 
Argent , Alleyne answered , a fess azure charged with three lozenges dividing three mullets sable . 
Over all , on an escutcheon of the first , a jambe gules . 
A jambe gules erased , said Sir Nigel , shaking his head solemnly . 
Yet it is not amiss for a monk bred man . 
I trust that you are lowly and serviceable ? I have served all my life , my lord . 
Canst carve too ? I have carved two days a week for the brethren . 
A model truly ! Wilt make a squire of squires . 
But tell me , I pray , canst curl hair ? No , my lord , but I could learn . 
He pulled off his velvet cap of maintenance as he spoke , and displayed a pate which was as bald as an egg , and shone bravely in the firelight . 
Modesty and a humble mind , said she , are the very first and rarest gifts in page or squire . 
Your words prove that you have these , and all the rest is but the work of use and time . 
But there is no call for haste . 
Rest upon it for the night , and let your orisons ask for guidance in the matter . 
We can scare hope , said Nigel , to have all ready for our start before the feast of St . 
Luke , for there is much to be done in the time . 
You will have leisure , therefore , if it please you to take service under me , in which to learn your devoir . 
Bertrand , my daughter's page , is hot to go but in sooth he is over young for such rough work as may be before us . 
And I have one favor to crave from you , added the lady of the castle , as Alleyne turned to leave their presence . 
You have , as I understand , much learning which you have acquired at Beaulieu . 
Little enough , lady , compared with those who were my teachers . 
Yet enough for my purpose , I doubt not . 
Father Christopher comes over after nones from the priory , but he is stricken with years and slow of speech , so that she gets small profit from his teaching . 
I would have you do what you can with her , and with Agatha my young tire woman , and with Dorothy Pierpont . 
HOW ALLEYNE LEARNED MORE THAN HE COULD TEACH . 
AND now there came a time of stir and bustle , of furbishing of arms and clang of hammer from all the southland counties . 
Great news this for that fierce old country , whose trade for a generation had been war , her exports archers and her imports prisoners . 
For six years her sons had chafed under an unwonted peace . 
Now they flew to their arms as to their birthright . 
From sea to sea there was stringing of bows in the cottage and clang of steel in the castle . 
Nor did it take long for every stronghold to pour forth its cavalry , and every hamlet its footmen . 
Through the late autumn and the early winter every road and country lane resounded with nakir and trumpet , with the neigh of the war horse and the clatter of marching men . 
From Orwell to the Dart there was no port which did not send forth its little fleet , gay with streamer and bunting , as for a joyous festival . 
Thus in the season of the waning days the might of England put forth on to the waters . 
In the ancient and populous county of Hampshire there was no lack of leaders or of soldiers for a service which promised either honor or profit . 
In the north the Saracen's head of the Brocas and the scarlet fish of the De Roches were waving over a strong body of archers from Holt , Woolmer , and Harewood forests . 
De Borhunte was up in the east , and Sir John de Montague in the west . 
But poverty was heavy upon him , his land was scant , his coffers empty , and the very castle which covered him the holding of another . 
Sore was his heart when he saw rare bowmen and war hardened spearmen turned away from his gates , for the lack of the money which might equip and pay them . 
Yet the letter which Aylward had brought him gave him powers which he was not slow to use . 
Carefully and sagaciously the veteran knight chose out his men from the swarm of volunteers . 
Many an anxious consultation he held with Black Simon , Sam Aylward , and other of his more experienced followers , as to who should come and who should stay . 
Yet , even after the enrolment , there was much to be done ere the party could proceed upon its way . 
For armor , swords , and lances , there was no need to take much forethought , for they were to be had both better and cheaper in Bordeaux than in England . 
With the long bow , however , it was different . 
Yew staves indeed might be got in Spain , but it was well to take enough and to spare with them . 
Above all , the women for miles round were hard at work cutting the white surcoats which were the badge of the Company , and adorning them with the red lion of St . 
George upon the centre of the breast . 
Six long weeks were taken in these preparations , and it was close on Martinmas ere all was ready for a start . 
Already he had learned to bless his father for that wise provision which had made him seek to know the world ere he had ventured to renounce it . 
The man of God and the man of the sword might without scandal be united in the same individual . 
Henceforth for seven hours a day he strove in the tilt yard to qualify himself to be a worthy squire to so worthy a knight . 
A woman , in monkish precepts , had been the embodiment and concentration of what was dangerous and evil a focus whence spread all that was to be dreaded and avoided . 
So defiling was their presence that a true Cistercian might not raise his eyes to their face or touch their finger tips under ban of church and fear of deadly sin . 
And yet the Lady Maude Loring was no easy pupil to handle . 
An older and more world wise man might have been puzzled by her varying moods , her sudden prejudices , her quick resentment at all constraint and authority . 
On the other hand , were there dull patience needed with steady toil and strain of memory , no single fact could by any driving be fixed in her mind . 
At times , too , when the wild fit was upon her , she would break into pertness and rebel openly against Alleyne's gentle firmness . 
In an instant the Lady Maude had turned upon her two blazing eyes and a face which was blanched with anger . 
You would dare ! said she . 
You would dare ! The frightened tire woman tried to excuse herself . 
But my fair lady , she stammered , what have I done ? I have said no more than I heard . 
You would dare ! repeated the lady in a choking voice . 
You , a graceless baggage , a foolish lack brain , with no thought above the hemming of shifts . 
Alleyne stared open eyed at this tigress who had sprung so suddenly to his rescue . 
There is no need for such anger , he said mildly . 
The maid's words have done me no scath . 
It is you yourself who have erred . 
I know it , she cried , I am a most wicked woman . 
But it is bad enough that one should misuse you . 
Ma foi ! I will see that there is not a second one . 
Nay , nay , no one has misused me , he answered . 
But the fault lies in your hot and bitter words . 
You have called her a baggage and a lack brain , and I know not what . 
And you are he who taught me to speak the truth , she cried . 
Now I have spoken it , and yet I cannot please you . 
Lack brain she is , and lack brain I shall call her . 
Such was a sample of the sudden janglings which marred the peace of that little class . 
As the weeks passed , however , they became fewer and less violent , as Alleyne's firm and constant nature gained sway and influence over the Lady Maude . 
And yet , sooth to say , there were times when he had to ask himself whether it was not the Lady Maude who was gaining sway and influence over him . 
If she were changing , so was he . 
In drawing her up from the world , he was day by day being himself dragged down towards it . 
In vain he strove and reasoned with himself as to the madness of letting his mind rest upon Sir Nigel's daughter . 
He had ridden over to Poole , one November day , with his fellow squire , Peter Terlake , in quest of certain yew staves from Wat Swathling , the Dorsetshire armorer . 
And would rather sit distrait by her oriel than ride gayly to the chase as of old . 
Methinks , Alleyne , it is this learning which you have taught her that has taken all the life and sap from her . 
It is more than she can master , like a heavy spear to a light rider . 
Her lady mother has so ordered it , said Alleyne . 
Hark ye , lad Alleyne , to what I never told man or woman yet . 
I love the fair Lady Maude , and would give the last drop of my heart's blood to serve her . 
He spoke with a gasping voice , and his face flushed crimson in the moonlight . 
Alleyne said nothing , but his heart seemed to turn to a lump of ice in his bosom . 
My father has broad acres , the other continued , from Fareham Creek to the slope of the Portsdown Hill . 
There is filling of granges , hewing of wood , malting of grain , and herding of sheep as much as heart could wish , and I the only son . 
Sure am I that Sir Nigel would be blithe at such a match . 
But how of the lady ? asked Alleyne , with dry lips . 
Ah , lad , there lies my trouble . 
It is a toss of the head and a droop of the eyes if I say one word of what is in my mind . 
'Twere as easy to woo the snow dame that we shaped last winter in our castle yard . 
Yet she would not take back the words either , nor would she grant the veil . 
Has it seemed to thee , Alleyne , that she loves any one ? Nay , I cannot say , said Alleyne , with a wild throb of sudden hope in his heart . 
I have thought so , and yet I cannot name the man . 
Next day at morning lesson the teacher observed that his pupil was indeed looking pale and jaded , with listless eyes and a weary manner . 
He was heavy hearted to note the grievous change in her . 
Your mistress , I fear , is ill , Agatha , he said to the tire woman , when the Lady Maude had sought her chamber . 
The maid looked aslant at him with laughing eyes . 
It is not an illness that kills , quoth she . 
Pray God not ! he cried . 
Canst not give a name to it , and thou so skilled in leech craft ? Nay , save that she seems aweary . 
Well , bethink you that it is but three days ere you will all be gone , and Castle Twynham be as dull as the Priory . 
Is there not enough there to cloud a lady's brow ? In sooth , yes , he answered I had forgot that she is about to lose her father . 
Her father ! cried the tire woman , with a little trill of laughter . 
HOW THE WHITE COMPANY SET FORTH TO THE WARS . 
In front stood the bow men , ten deep , with a fringe of under officers , who paced hither and thither marshalling the ranks with curt precept or short rebuke . 
Behind were the little clump of steel clad horsemen , their lances raised , with long pensils drooping down the oaken shafts . 
All round , in the edge of the circle of the light , stood the castle servants , the soldiers who were to form the garrison , and little knots of women . 
who sobbed in their aprons and called shrilly to their name saints to watch over the Wat , or Will , or Peterkin who had turned his hand to the work of war . 
Her face was turned away from him , but he could see , by the sharp intake of her breath , that she was weeping bitterly . 
I have seen it before , when I was a little maid , in the year of the Prince's great battle . 
Please God , you will see them all back ere another year be out , said he . 
She shook her head , looking round at him with flushed cheeks and eyes that sparkled in the lamp light . 
Oh , but I hate myself for being a woman ! she cried , with a stamp of her little foot . 
What can I do that is good ? Here I must bide , and talk and sew and spin , and spin and sew and talk . 
Ever the same dull round , with nothing at the end of it . 
And now you are going too , who could carry my thoughts out of these gray walls , and raise my mind above tapestry and distaffs . 
What can I do ? I am of no more use or value than that broken bowstave . 
You are of such value to me , he cried , in a whirl of hot , passionate words , that all else has become nought . 
You are my heart , my life , my one and only thought . 
Oh , Maude , I cannot live without you , I cannot leave you without a word of love . 
All is changed to me since I have known you . 
I am poor and lowly and all unworthy of you but if great love may weigh down such defects , then mine may do it . 
Give me but one word of hope to take to the wars with me but one . 
Ah , you shrink , you shudder ! My wild words have frightened you . 
Twice she opened her lips , and twice no sound came from them . 
At last she spoke in a hard and measured voice , as one who dare not trust herself to speak too freely . 
This is over sudden , she said it is not so long since the world was nothing to you . 
You have changed once perchance you may change again . 
Cruel ! he cried , who hath changed me ? And then your brother , she continued with a little laugh , disregarding his question . 
Methinks this hath become a family custom amongst the Edricsons . 
Nay , I am sorry I did not mean a jibe . 
But , indeed , Alleyne , this hath come suddenly upon me , and I scarce know what to say . 
Say some word of hope , however distant some kind word that I may cherish in my heart . 
Nay , Alleyne , it were a cruel kindness , and you have been too good and true a friend to me that I should use you despitefully . 
There cannot be a closer link between us . 
It is madness to think of it . 
Were there no other reasons , it is enough that my father and your brother would both cry out against it . 
But you do not reject me , Maude ? You give me some ray of hope ? I do not ask pledge or promise . 
Say only that I am not hateful to you that on some happier day I may hear kinder words from you . 
At the sound her face set her eyes sparkled , and she stood with flushed cheek and head thrown back a woman's body , with a soul of fire . 
My father hath gone down , she cried . 
Your place is by his side . 
Nay , look not at me , Alleyne . 
It is no time for dallying . 
Win my father's love , and all may follow . 
Again the hoarse cheering burst out from below , and he heard the clang of the rising portcullis . 
Pressing the veil to his lips , he thrust it into the bosom of his tunic , and rushed as fast as feet could bear him to arm himself and join the muster . 
The raw morning had broken ere the hot spiced ale had been served round and the last farewell spoken . 
A cold wind blew up from the sea and ragged clouds drifted swiftly across the sky . 
First came Black Simon with his banner , bestriding a lean and powerful dapple gray charger , as hard and wiry and warwise as himself . 
They were armed to the teeth with lance , sword , and mace , with square shields notched at the upper right hand corner to serve as a spear rest . 
For defence each man wore a coat of interlaced leathern thongs , strengthened at the shoulder , elbow , and upper arm with slips of steel . 
Behind the bowmen strode two trumpeters blowing upon nakirs , and two drummers in parti colored clothes . 
A white mule with red trappings , led by a varlet , carried Sir Nigel's own napery and table comforts . 
A quick cross fire of greetings and questions and rough West Saxon jests flew from rank to rank , or were bandied about betwixt the marching archers and the gazing crowd . 
Hola , Gaffer Higginson ! cried Aylward , as he spied the portly figure of the village innkeeper . 
No more of thy nut brown , mon gar . 
We leave it behind us . 
Paul , no ! cried the other . 
You take it with you . 
Devil a drop have you left in the great kilderkin . 
It was time for you to go . 
If your cask is leer , I warrant your purse is full , gaffer , shouted Hordle John . 
See that you lay in good store of the best for our home coming . 
See that you keep your throat whole for the drinking of it archer , cried a voice , and the crowd laughed at the rough pleasantry . 
If you will warrant the beer , I will warrant the throat , said John composedly . 
Close up the ranks ! cried Aylward . 
Brace your belt , Watkins , man , and swing your shoulders as a free companion should . 
By my hilt ! your jerkins will be as dirty as mine ere you clap eyes on Hengistbury Head again . 
Sir Nigel was still in his velvet dress of peace , with flat velvet cap of maintenance , and curling ostrich feather clasped in a golden brooch . 
I trust him to you , Edricson . 
Hosen , shirts , cyclas , and under jupons are in the brown basket on the left side of the mule . 
His wine he takes hot when the nights are cold , malvoisie or vernage , with as much spice as would cover the thumb nail . 
See that he hath a change if he come back hot from the tilting . 
There is goose grease in a box , if the old scars ache at the turn of the weather . 
Let his blankets be dry and Nay , my heart's life , the little knight interrupted , trouble not now about such matters . 
There are in it twenty three marks , one noble , three shillings and fourpence , which is a great treasure for one man to carry . 
But oh , my dear lord , she cried with a trembling lip , let me bide with you for one furlong further or one and a half perhaps . 
You may spare me this out of the weary miles that you will journey along . 
Come , then , my heart's comfort , he answered . 
But I must crave a gage from thee . 
Alack and alas for the fairest and sweetest ! she cried . 
Edricson , quoth Sir Nigel , you have young eyes , and mine are somewhat bedimmed . 
It is with mine other guardian angels , quoth he , pointing at the saints' medals which hung beside it . 
And now , my dear est , you have come far enow . 
Half a mile further , where the road topped a hill , they looked back , and the Lady Mary on her white palfrey was still where they had left her . 
A moment later they were on the downward slope , and she had vanished from their view . 
HOW SIR NIGEL SOUGHT FOR A WAYSIDE VENTURE . 
FOR a time Sir Nigel was very moody and downcast , with bent brows and eyes upon the pommel of his saddle . 
Sir Nigel happened , however , to turn himself in his saddle Ford instantly became as stiff and as rigid as though he had been struck with a palsy . 
Ride by my side , friends , I entreat of you , said the knight , reining in his steed that they might come abreast of him . 
For , since it hath pleased you to follow me to the wars , it were well that you should know how you may best serve me . 
We go to France , and from thence I trust to Spain , in humble search of a field in which we may win advancement and perchance some small share of glory . 
For this purpose I would have you know that it is not my wont to let any occasion pass where it is in any way possible that honor may be gained . 
And , should he be of gentle blood it may be that he would care to exchange thrusts with me . 
I was also on such an occasion thrust through the shoulder by Lyon de Montcourt , whom I met on the high road betwixt Libourne and Bordeaux . 
I met him but the once , but I have never seen a man for whom I bear a greater love and esteem . 
And so also with the squire Le Bourg Capillet , who would have been a very valiant captain had he lived . 
He is dead then ? asked Alleyne Edricson . 
Alas ! it was my ill fate to slay him in a bickering which broke out in a field near the township of Tarbes . 
Such a one at Ventadour ran three courses with me betwixt daybreak and sunrise , to the great exaltation of his lady . 
And did you slay him also , my lord ? asked Ford with reverence . 
Yet , by the goodness of heaven and the pious intercession of the valiant St . 
George , I was able to sit my charger in the ruffle of Poictiers , which was no very long time afterwards . 
But what have we here ? A very fair and courtly maiden , or I mistake . 
It was indeed a tall and buxom country lass , with a basket of spinach leaves upon her head , and a great slab of bacon tucked under one arm . 
She bobbed a frightened curtsey as Sir Nigel swept his velvet hat from his head and reined up his great charger . 
God be with thee , fair maiden ! said he . 
God guard thee , my lord ! she answered , speaking in the broadest West Saxon speech , and balancing herself first on one foot and then on the other in her bashfulness . 
Fear not , my fair damsel , said Sir Nigel , but tell me if perchance a poor and most unworthy knight can in any wise be of service to you . 
Should it chance that you have been used despitefully , it may be that I may obtain justice for you . 
Lawk no , kind sir , she answered , clutching her bacon the tighter , as though some design upon it might be hid under this knightly offer . 
I be the milking wench o' fairmer Arnold , and he be as kind a maister as heart could wish . 
It is well , said he , and with a shake of the bridle rode on down the woodland path . 
But here comes a cavalier who is indeed in haste . 
Perchance it would be well that we should ask him whither he rides , for it may be that he is one who desires to advance himself in chivalry . 
Far away between the black lines of trunks the quick glitter of steel marked where the Company pursued its way . 
Just in front of the travellers a horseman was urging his steed up the slope , driving it on with whip and spur as one who rides for a set purpose . 
As he clattered up , Alleyne could see that the roan horse was gray with dust and flecked with foam , as though it had left many a mile behind it . 
The king's messenger , he bawled as he came up to them . 
The messenger of the king . 
Clear the causeway for the king's own man . 
Not so loudly , friend , quoth the little knight , reining his horse half round to bar the path . 
I have myself been the king's man for thirty years or more , but I have not been wont to halloo about it on a peaceful highway . 
I ride in his service , cried the other , and I carry that which belongs to him . 
You bar my path at your peril . 
Yet I have known the king's enemies claim to ride in his same , said Sir Nigel . 
The foul fiend may lurk beneath a garment of light . 
We must have some sign or warrant of your mission . 
Then must I hew a passage , cried the stranger , with his shoulder braced round and his hand upon his hilt . 
I am not to be stopped on the king's service by every gadabout . 
Should you be a gentleman of quarterings and coat armor , lisped Sir Nigel , I shall be very blithe to go further into the matter with you . 
If not , I have three very worthy squires , any one of whom would take the thing upon himself , and debate it with you in a very honorable way . 
The man scowled from one to the other , and his hand stole away from his sword . 
You ask me for a sign , he said . 
Here is a sign for you , since you must have one . 
As he spoke he whirled the covering from the object in front of him and showed to their horror that it was a newly severed human leg . 
This thievish leg is to hang at Milton , and the other is already at Brockenhurst , as a sign to all men of what comes of being over fond of venison pasty . 
Faugh ! cried Sir Nigel . 
Pass on the other side of the road , fellow , and let us have the wind of you . 
We shall trot our horses , my friends , across this pleasant valley , for , by Our Lady ! a breath of God's fresh air is right welcome after such a sight . 
We hoped to snare a falcon , said he presently , but we netted a carrion crow . 
Ma foi ! but there are men whose hearts are tougher than a boar's hide . 
And yet , my fair lord , said Edricson , there has , from what I hear , been much of such devil's work in France . 
Too much , too much , he answered . 
But I have ever observed that the foremost in the field are they who would scorn to mishandle a prisoner . 
But what is this among the trees ? It is a shrine of Our Lady , said Terlake , and a blind beggar who lives by the alms of those who worship there . 
A shrine ! cried the knight . 
Then let us put up an orison . 
Pulling off his cap , and clasping his hands , he chanted in a shrill voice Benedictus dominus Deus meus , qui docet manus meas ad proelium , et digitos meos ad bellum . 
A strange figure he seemed to his three squires , perched on his huge horse , with his eyes upturned and the wintry sun shimmering upon his bald head . 
It is a noble prayer , he remarked , putting on his hat again , and it was taught to me by the noble Chandos himself . 
Paul ! there is a long stride between the man who hath a horn casement and him who is walled in on every hand . 
You have been blind to much that is goodly and fair , quoth Sir Nigel , but you have also been spared much that is sorry and foul . 
This very hour our eyes have been shocked with that which would have left you unmoved . 
Paul ! we must on , or our Company will think that they have lost their captain somewhat early in the venture . 
Throw the man my purse , Edricson , and let us go . 
Another minute brought them up with the rear guard , where every man marched with his beard on his shoulder and a face which was a grin with merriment . 
I trust , Aylward , said Sir Nigel gravely , as he rode up , that this doth not mean that any violence hath been offered to women . 
If such a thing happened , I tell you that the man shall hang , though he were the best archer that ever wore brassart . 
Nay , my fair lord , Aylward answered with a grin , it is violence which is offered to a man . 
He comes from Hordle , and this is his mother who hath come forth to welcome him . 
You rammucky lurden , she was howling , with a blow between each catch of her breath , you shammocking , yaping , over long good for nought . 
To France , quotha ? cried the old dame . 
Bide here with me , and I shall warrant you more blows than you are like to get in France . 
If blows be what you seek , you need not go further than Hordle . 
By my hilt ! the good dame speaks truth , said Aylward . 
It seems to be the very home of them . 
What have you to say , you clean shaved galley beggar ? cried the fiery dame , turning upon the archer . 
Can I not speak with my own son but you must let your tongue clack ? A soldier , quotha , and never a hair on his face . 
I have seen a better soldier with pap for food and swaddling clothes for harness . 
Stand to it , Aylward , cried the archers , amid a fresh burst of laughter . 
Do not thwart her , comrade , said big John . 
She hath a proper spirit for her years and cannot abide to be thwarted . 
It is kindly and homely to me to hear her voice and to feel that she is behind me . 
That was ever his way , she cried , appealing to Sir Nigel , who reined up his horse and listened with the greatest courtesy . 
He would jog on his own road for all that I could do to change him . 
First he must be a monk forsooth , and all because a wench was wise enough to turn her back on him . 
Yet I have been a good mother to him . 
Three hazel switches a day have I broke across his shoulders , and he takes no more notice than you have seen him to day . 
Doubt not that he will come back to you both safe and prosperous , my fair dame , quoth Sir Nigel . 
Meanwhile it grieves me that as I have already given my purse to a beggar up the road I Nay , my lord , said Alleyne , I still have some moneys remaining . 
Then I pray you to give them to this very worthy woman . 
At the Lymington River they splashed through the ford , and lay in the meadows on the further side to eat the bread and salt meat which they carried upon the sumpter horses . 
There is a third cross road where the track from Boldre runs down to the old fishing village of Pitt's Deep . 
Down this , as they came abreast of it , there walked two men , the one a pace or two behind the other . 
The cavaliers could not but pull up their horses to look at them , for a stranger pair were never seen journeying together . 
He seemed to be in the last extremity of fright , with a face the color of clay and his limbs all ashake as one who hath an ague . 
Behind him , with his toe ever rasping upon the other's heels , there walked a very stern , black bearded man with a hard eye and a set mouth . 
So in silence they walked under the spread of the branches on the grass grown path from Boldre . 
Paul ! quoth the knight , but this is a passing strange sight , and perchance some very perilous and honorable venture may arise from it . 
I pray you , Edricson , to ride up to them and to ask them the cause of it . 
So intent was he that he raised his eyes neither to knight nor squires , but kept them ever fixed with a savage glare upon his comrade . 
The man with the cross was down in an instant on his knees upon the ground , with hands clasped above him and his face shining with hope . 
How , you foul knave ? exclaimed Sir Nigel hotly . 
Do you think that a cavalier's arm is to be bought like a packman's ware . 
Paul ! I have little doubt that this fellow hath some very good cause to hold you in hatred . 
Indeed , my fair sir , you speak sooth , quoth he with the club , while the other seated himself once more by the wayside . 
For this man is Peter Peterson , a very noted rieve , draw latch , and murtherer , who has wrought much evil for many years in the parts about Winchester . 
For when the deed was done this foul and base wretch fled to sanctuary at St . 
Cross , and I , as you may think , after him with all the posse . 
Knight and squire gazed from rogue to avenger , but as it was a matter which none could mend they tarried no longer , but rode upon their way . 
HOW THE YELLOW COG SAILED FORTH FROM LEPE . 
THAT night the Company slept at St . 
Leonard's , in the great monastic barns and spicarium ground well known both to Alleyne and to John , for they were almost within sight of the Abbey of Beaulieu . 
To right and left the long blue curve of the Solent lapped in a fringe of foam upon the yellow beach . 
Some way out from the town a line of pessoners , creyers , and other small craft were rolling lazily on the gentle swell . 
Further out still lay a great merchant ship , high ended , deep waisted , painted of a canary yellow , and towering above the fishing boats like a swan among ducklings . 
Paul ! said the knight , our good merchant of Southampton hath not played us false , for methinks I can see our ship down yonder . 
He said that she would be of great size and of a yellow shade . 
By my hilt , yes ! muttered Aylward she is yellow as a kite's claw , and would carry as many men as there are pips in a pomegranate . 
It is as well , remarked Terlake for methinks , my fair lord , that we are not the only ones who are waiting a passage to Gascony . 
Mine eye catches at times a flash and sparkle among yonder houses which assuredly never came from shipman's jacket or the gaberdine of a burgher . 
I can also see it , said Alleyne , shading his eyes with his hand . 
And I can see men at arms in yonder boats which ply betwixt the vessel and the shore . 
But methinks that we are very welcome here , for already they come forth to meet us . 
At their head rode a very large and solemn man with a long chin and a drooping lip . 
He wore a fur tippet round his neck and a heavy gold chain over it , with a medallion which dangled in front of him . 
Welcome , most puissant and noble lord , he cried , doffing his bonnet to Black Simon . 
I have heard of your lordship's valiant deeds , and in sooth they might be expected from your lordship's face and bearing . 
What , the corporation chain ! cried the other in horror . 
The ancient chain of the township of Lepe ! This is but a sorry jest , Sir Nigel . 
What the plague did you ask me for then ? said Simon . 
But if it is Sir Nigel Loring with whom you would speak , that is he upon the black horse . 
The Mayor of Lepe gazed with amazement on the mild face and slender frame of the famous warrior . 
Your pardon , my gracious lord , he cried . 
You see in me the mayor and chief magistrate of the ancient and powerful town of Lepe . 
I bid you very heartily welcome , and the more so as you are come at a moment when we are sore put to it for means of defence . 
Ha ! cried Sir Nigel , pricking up his ears . 
Yes , my lord , for the town being very ancient and the walls as old as the town , it follows that they are very ancient too . 
The knight , however , was too much intent upon the matter in hand to give heed to the flippancy of his squire . 
At Weymouth and at Portland they have murdered and ravished . 
Yesterday morning they were at Cowes , and we saw the smoke from the burning crofts . 
To day they lie at their ease near Freshwater , and we fear much lest they come upon us and do us a mischief . 
Yet I will promise you that on our way we shall find time to pass Freshwater and to prevail upon these rovers to leave you in peace . 
We are much beholden to you ! cried the mayor But I cannot see , my lord , how , without a war ship , you may venture against these men . 
With your archers , however , you might well hold the town and do them great scath if they attempt to land . 
Certes , we shall do as I say , and that no later than this very day . 
My lord , said a rough haired , dark faced man , who walked by the knight's other stirrup , with his head sloped to catch all that he was saying . 
I am the master shipman of this yellow cog , and my name is Goodwin Hawtayne . 
I also have experienced one or two gentle and honorable ventures upon the sea , quoth Sir Nigel , and I am right blithe to have so fair a task before us . 
I think , good master shipman , that you and I may win great honor in this matter , and I can see very readily that you are a brave and stout man . 
I like it not , said the other sturdily . 
In God's name , I like it not . 
And yet Goodwin Hawtayne is not the man to stand back when his fellows are for pressing forward . 
They were close by the old north gate of the little town , and Alleyne , half turning in his saddle , looked back at the motley crowd who followed . 
Here and there among the moving throng of dark jerkins and of white surcoats were scattered dashes of scarlet and blue , the whimples or shawls of the women . 
How now , Sir Mayor ? he roared , in a voice like a bull . 
How now , Sir Mayor ? How of the clams and the scallops ? By Our Lady ! my sweet Sir Oliver , cried the mayor . 
I have had so much to think of , with these wicked villains so close upon us , that it had quite gone out of my head . 
Words , words ! shouted the other furiously . 
Am I to be put off with words ? I say to you again , how of the clams and scallops ? My fair sir , you flatter me , cried the mayor . 
I am a peaceful trader , and I am not wont to be so shouted at upon so small a matter . 
Small ! shrieked the other . 
Let your anger be appeased , since instead of this dish you come upon an old friend and comrade . 
Martin of Tours ! shouted the fat knight , his wrath all changed in an instant to joy , if it is not my dear little game rooster of the Garonne . 
Ah , my sweet coz , I am right glad to see you . 
Paul ! we have had great joys in France . 
And sorrows also , quoth the other . 
I have some sad memories of the land . 
Can you recall that which befell us at Libourne ? Nay , I cannot call to mind that we ever so much as drew sword at the place . 
Man , man , cried Sir Oliver , your mind still runs on nought but blades and bassinets . 
Hast no space in thy frame for the softer joys . 
Ah , even now I can scarce speak of it unmoved . 
I remember it , said Sir Nigel , laughing , and how you harried the cook down the street , and spoke of setting fire to the inn . 
Paul ! most worthy mayor , my old friend is a perilous man , and I rede you that you compose your difference with him on such terms as you may . 
The clams and scallops shall be ready within the hour , the mayor answered . 
How many do you muster , Sir Oliver ? Three and forty . 
The forty are drunk , and the three are but indifferent sober . 
I have them all safe upon the ship . 
They had best find their wits again , for I shall have work for every man of them ere the sun set . 
It is my intention , if it seems good to you , to try a venture against these Norman and Genoese rovers . 
They carry caviare and certain very noble spices from the Levant aboard of ships from Genoa , quoth Sir Oliver . 
We may come to great profit through the business . 
I pray you , master shipman , that when you go on board you pour a helmetful of sea water over any of my rogues whom you may see there . 
These once aboard , the ship set her broad mainsail , purple in color , and with a golden St . 
Christopher bearing Christ upon his shoulder in the centre of it . 
I saw him , my fair lord , said Terlake , an old man with one shoulder higher than the other . 
'Tis a sign of good fortune , quoth Sir Nigel . 
Our path was also crossed by a woman and by a priest , so all should be well with us . 
What say you , Edricson ? I cannot tell , my fair lord . 
The Romans of old were a very wise people , yet , certes , they placed their faith in such matters . 
So , too , did the Greeks , and divers other ancient peoples who were famed for their learning . 
Yet of the moderns there are many who scoff at all omens . 
We knew that ill would come of it , nor had we long to wait . 
You may bring my harness from below , said Sir Nigel to his squires , and also , I pray you , bring up Sir Oliver's and we shall don it here . 
And now , Sir Oliver , as to our dispositions would it please you that I should order them or will you ? You , my cockerel , you . 
By Our Lady ! I am no chicken , but I cannot claim to know as much of war as the squire of Sir Walter Manny . 
Settle the matter to your own liking . 
You shall fly your pennon upon the fore part , then , and I upon the poop . 
For foreguard I shall give you your own forty men , with two score archers . 
Two score men , with my own men at arms and squires , will serve as a poop guard . 
Ten archers , with thirty shipmen , under the master , may hold the waist while ten lie aloft with stones and arbalests . 
Meanwhile there had been bustle and preparation in all parts of the great vessel . 
The archers stood in groups about the decks , new stringing their bows , and testing that they were firm at the nocks . 
Among them moved Aylward and other of the older soldiers , with a few whispered words of precept here and of warning there . 
Stand to it , my hearts of gold , said the old bowman as he passed from knot to knot . 
By my hilt ! we are in luck this journey . 
Bear in mind the old saying of the Company . 
What is that , Aylward ? cried several , leaning on their bows and laughing at him . 
'Tis the master bowyer's rede 'Every bow well bent . 
Work first , wine afterwards , mon camarade . 
But it is time that we took our order , for methinks that between the Needle rocks and the Alum cliffs yonder I can catch a glimpse of the topmasts of the galleys . 
Hewett , Cook , Johnson , Cunningham , your men are of the poop guard . 
Thornbury , Walters , Hackett , Baddlesmere , you are with Sir Oliver on the forecastle . 
Simon , you bide with your lord's banner but ten men must go forward . 
Quietly and promptly the men took their places , lying flat upon their faces on the deck , for such was Sir Nigel's order . 
Near the prow was planted Sir Oliver's spear , with his arms a boar's head gules upon a field of gold . 
Close by the stern stood Black Simon with the pennon of the house of Loring . 
Pass the word , said Sir Nigel , that no man shall stand to arms or draw his bow string until my trumpeter shall sound . 
It would be well that we should seem to be a merchant ship from Southampton and appear to flee from them . 
We shall see them anon , said the master shipman . 
See how their shallops pull from the land ! They have seen us and called their men aboard . 
Now they draw upon the anchor . 
See them like ants upon the forecastle ! They stoop and heave like handy ship men . 
But , my fair lord , these are no niefs . 
I doubt but we have taken in hand more than we can do . 
Each of these ships is a galeasse , and of the largest and swiftest make . 
I would I had your eyes , said Sir Nigel , blinking at the pirate galleys . 
They seem very gallant ships , and I trust that we shall have much pleasance from our meeting with them . 
It would be well to pass the word that we should neither give nor take quarter this day . 
Have you perchance a priest or friar aboard this ship , Master Hawtayne ? No , my fair lord . 
But my mind misdoubts me as to these Winchester men who have come with Sir Oliver , for they appear to be a very ungodly crew . 
Pass the word that the men kneel , and that the under officers repeat to them the pater , the ave , and the credo . 
With a clank of arms , the rough archers and seamen took to their knees , with bent heads and crossed hands , listening to the hoarse mutter from the file leaders . 
The yellow cog had now shot out from the narrow waters of the Solent , and was plunging and rolling on the long heave of the open channel . 
High and bluff the English cog long , black and swift the pirate galleys , like two fierce lean wolves which have seen a lordly and unsuspecting stag walk past their forest lair . 
Shall we turn , my fair lord , or shall we carry on ? asked the master shipman , looking behind him with anxious eyes . 
Nay , we must carry on and play the part of the helpless merchant . 
But your pennons ? They will see that we have two knights with us . 
Yet it would not be to a knight's honor or good name to lower his pennon . 
Let them be , and they will think that we are a wine ship for Gascony , or that we bear the wool bales of some mercer of the Staple . 
Ma foi , but they are very swift ! They swoop upon us like two goshawks on a heron . 
Is there not some symbol or device upon their sails ? That on the right , said Edricson , appears to have the head of an Ethiop upon it . 
'Tis the badge of Tete noire , the Norman , cried a seaman mariner . 
I have seen it before , when he harried us at Winchelsea . 
He is a wondrous large and strong man , with no ruth for man , woman , or beast . 
They say that he hath the strength of six and , certes , he hath the crimes of six upon his soul . 
Paul ! said Sir Nigel , and by the help of St . 
George and Our Lady , it will be a very strange thing if our black headed friend does not himself swing thence ere he be many hours older . 
But what is that upon the other galley ? It is the red cross of Genoa . 
That we shall prove , said Goodwin Hawtayne but it would be well , ere they close with us , to raise up the mantlets and pavises as a screen against their bolts . 
He shouted a hoarse order , and his seamen worked swiftly and silently , heightening the bulwarks and strengthening them . 
Let them be supplied with all that is heavy and weighty in the ship , said Sir Nigel . 
Then we must send them up Sir Oliver Buttesthorn , quoth Ford . 
The knight looked at him with a face which struck the smile from his lips . 
No squire of mine , he said , shall ever make jest of a belted knight . 
And yet , he added , his eyes softening , I know that it is but a boy's mirth , with no sting in it . 
Yet I should ill do my part towards your father if I did not teach you to curb your tongue play . 
They will lay us aboard on either quarter , my lord , cried the master . 
See how they stretch out from each other ! The Norman hath a mangonel or a trabuch upon the forecastle . 
See , they bend to the levers ! They are about to loose it . 
Aylward , cried the knight , pick your three trustiest archers , and see if you cannot do something to hinder their aim . 
Methinks they are within long arrow flight . 
Seventeen score paces , said the archer , running his eye backwards and forwards . 
By my ten finger bones ! it would be a strange thing if we could not notch a mark at that distance . 
Here , Watkin of Sowley , Arnold , Long Williams , let us show the rogues that they have English bowmen to deal with . 
You are the surer , Watkin , said Aylward , standing by them with shaft upon string . 
Do you take the rogue with the red coif . 
You two bring down the man with the head piece , and I will hold myself ready if you miss . 
Ma foi ! they are about to loose her . 
Shoot , mes garcons , or you will be too late . 
The throng of pirates had cleared away from the great wooden catapult , leaving two of their number to discharge it . 
One in a scarlet cap bent over it , steadying the jagged rock which was balanced on the spoon shaped end of the long wooden lever . 
The other held the loop of the rope which would release the catch and send the unwieldy missile hurtling through the air . 
So for an instant they stood , showing hard and clear against the white sail behind them . 
As to the stone , it glanced off obliquely and fell midway between the vessels . 
A roar of cheering and of laughter broke from the rough archers and seamen at the sight , answered by a yell of rage from their pursuers . 
Lie low , mes enfants , cried Aylward , motioning with his left hand . 
They are bringing forward shield and mantlet . 
We shall have some pebbles about our ears ere long . 
HOW THE YELLOW COG FOUGHT THE TWO ROVER GALLEYS . 
THE three vessels had been sweeping swiftly westwards , the cog still well to the front , although the galleys were slowly drawing in upon either quarter . 
To the left was a hard skyline unbroken by a sail . 
The island already lay like a cloud behind them , while right in front was St . 
Alban's Head , with Portland looming mistily in the farthest distance . 
His cheeks were flushed and his eyes shining , for the blood of a hundred fighting Saxon ancestors was beginning to stir in his veins . 
What was that ? he asked , as a hissing , sharp drawn voice seemed to whisper in his ear . 
The steersman smiled , and pointed with his foot to where a short heavy cross bow quarrel stuck quivering in the boards . 
At the same instant the man stumbled forward upon his knees , and lay lifeless upon the deck , a blood stained feather jutting out from his back . 
Raise two more mantlets by the poop lanthorn , said Sir Nigel quietly . 
And another man to the tiller , cried the master shipman . 
Keep them in play , Aylward , with ten of your men , the knight continued . 
And let ten of Sir Oliver's bowmen do as much for the Genoese . 
I have no mind as yet to show them how much they have to fear from us . 
Their comrades crouched beneath the bulwarks , with many a rough jest and many a scrap of criticism or advice . 
And now both mangonels were at work from the galleys , but so covered and protected that , save at the moment of discharge , no glimpse could be caught of them . 
A huge brown rock from the Genoese sang over their heads , and plunged sullenly into the slope of a wave . 
Another from the Norman whizzed into the waist , broke the back of a horse , and crashed its way through the side of the vessel . 
Two others , flying together , tore a great gap in the St . 
Christopher upon the sail , and brushed three of Sir Oliver's men at arms from the forecastle . 
The master shipman looked at the knight with a troubled face . 
They keep their distance from us , said he . 
Our archery is over good , and they will not close . 
What defence can we make against the stones ? I think I may trick them , the knight answered cheerfully , and passed his order to the archers . 
Instantly five of them threw up their hands and fell prostrate upon the deck . 
One had already been slain by a bolt , so that there were but four upon their feet . 
They still hold aloof , cried Hawtayne . 
Then down with two more , shouted their leader . 
Ma foi ! but they come to our lure like chicks to the fowler . 
To your arms , men ! The pennon behind me , and the squires round the pennon . 
Stand fast with the anchors in the waist , and be ready for a cast . 
Down they swooped , one on the right , one on the left , the sides and shrouds black with men and bristling with weapons . 
Rasping up on either side , with oars trailing to save them from snapping , they poured in a living torrent with horrid yell and shrill whoop upon the defenceless merchantman . 
And now set in a fell and fierce fight , one of a thousand of which no chronicler has spoken and no poet sung . 
Through all the centuries and over all those southern waters nameless men have fought in nameless places , their sole monuments a protected coast and an unravaged country side . 
Between these two formidable assailants the seamen were being slowly wedged more closely together , until they stood back to back under the mast with the rovers raging upon every side of them . 
But help was close at hand . 
Alleyne , as in duty bound , kept his eyes fixed ever on his lord and pressed forward close at his heels . 
Alleyne sprang in front of the Norman , but his sword was shattered and he himself beaten to the ground by a second blow from the ponderous weapon . 
In vain he tried to pluck it up with the other hand . 
Now , too , the archers had room to draw their bows once more , and great stones from the yard of the cog came thundering and crashing among the flying rovers . 
But the fight had taken a new and a strange turn upon the other side . 
Spade beard and his men had given slowly back , hard pressed by Sir Nigel , Aylward , Black Simon , and the poop guard . 
Yet he faced his foemen with dauntless courage , dashing in , springing back , sure footed , steady handed , with a point which seemed to menace three at once . 
At the same time the Genoese sailors thrust with their oars against the side of the cog , and a rapidly widening rift appeared between the two vessels . 
George ! cried Ford , we are cut off from Sir Nigel . 
He is lost , gasped Terlake . 
Come , let us spring for it . 
The two youths jumped with all their strength to reach the departing galley . 
Ford's feet reached the edge of the bulwarks , and his hand clutching a rope he swung himself on board . 
Terlake fell short , crashed in among the oars , and bounded off into the sea . 
Alleyne , staggering to the side , was about to hurl himself after him , but Hordle John dragged him back by the girdle . 
You can scarce stand , lad , far less jump , said he . 
See how the blood rips from your bassinet . 
My place is by the flag , cried Alleyne , vainly struggling to break from the other's hold . 
You would need wings ere you could reach Sir Nigel's side . 
The vessels were indeed so far apart now that the Genoese could use the full sweep of their oars , and draw away rapidly from the cog . 
My God , but it is a noble fight ! shouted big John , clapping his hands . 
They have cleared the poop , and they spring into the waist . 
Well struck , my lord ! Well struck , Aylward ! See to Black Simon , how he storms among the shipmen ! But this Spade beard is a gallant warrior . 
He rallies his men upon the forecastle . 
He hath slain an archer . 
Ha ! my lord is upon him . 
Look to it , Alleyne ! See to the whirl and glitter of it ! By heaven , Sir Nigel is down ! cried the squire . 
It was but a feint . 
He drives him to the side . 
Ah , by Our Lady , his sword is through him ! They cry for mercy . 
Down goes the red cross , and up springs Simon with the scarlet roses ! The death of the Genoese leader did indeed bring the resistance to an end . 
Now the cog's head was turned Francewards , and the shipman walked the deck , a peaceful master mariner once more . 
There is sad scath done to the cog , Sir Nigel , said he . 
Here is a hole in the side two ells across , the sail split through the centre , and the wood as bare as a friar's poll . 
In good sooth , I know not what I shall say to Master Witherton when I see the Itchen once more . 
Paul ! it would be a very sorry thing if we suffered you to be the worse of this day's work , said Sir Nigel . 
You shall take these galleys back with you , and Master Witherton may sell them . 
Even as he spoke , however , his head swirled round , and he fell to the deck with the blood gushing from his nose and mouth . 
He will come to anon , said the knight , stooping over him and passing his fingers through his hair . 
I have lost one very valiant and gentle squire this day . 
I can ill afford to lose another . 
How many men have fallen ? I have pricked off the tally , said Aylward , who had come aboard with his lord . 
There are seven of the Winchester men , eleven seamen , your squire , young Master Terlake , and nine archers . 
And of the others ? They are all dead save only the Norman knight who stands behind you . 
What would you that we should do with him ? He must hang on his own yard , said Sir Nigel . 
It was my vow and must be done . 
The pirate leader had stood by the bulwarks , a cord round his arms , and two stout archers on either side . 
At Sir Nigel's words he started violently , and his swarthy features blanched to a livid gray . 
How , Sir Knight ? he cried in broken English . 
Que ditesvous ? To hang , le mort du chien ! To hang ! It is my vow , said Sir Nigel shortly . 
From what I hear , you thought little enough of hanging others . 
Peasants , base roturiers , cried the other . 
It is their fitting death . 
By my hilt , he is gone ! cried Aylward , rushing to the side . 
They have sunk together like a stone . 
HOW THE YELLOW COG CROSSED THE BAR OF GIRONDE . 
Next morning they had passed Belle Isle , and ran through the midst of a fleet of transports returning from Guienne . 
All night it blew in short fitful puffs , heeling the great cog over until the water curled over her lee bulwarks . 
As the wind still freshened the yard was lowered half way down the mast in the morning . 
A huge sombre cloud , flecked with livid blotches , stretched over the whole seaward sky line , with long ragged streamers whirled out in front of it . 
On the left the low lying land stretched in a dim haze , rising here and there into a darker blur which marked the higher capes and headlands . 
The land of France ! Alleyne's eyes shone as he gazed upon it . 
The land of France ! the very words sounded as the call of a bugle in the ears of the youth of England . 
Nay , I had other things upon my mind , the squire answered . 
And so has every man , cried Hawtayne in an injured voice . 
Let the shipman see to it . 
It is the master shipman's affair . 
Put it all upon good Master Hawtayne ! Never had I so much care since first I blew trumpet and showed cartel at the west gate of Southampton . 
What is amiss then ? asked Alleyne , for the man's words were as gusty as the weather . 
It is well enough on this tack , but I would have you tell me what I am to do on the other . 
We are like to have salt water upon us until we be found pickled like the herrings in an Easterling's barrels . 
What says Sir Nigel to it ? He is below pricking out the coat armor of his mother's uncle . 
'Pester me not with such small matters ! was all that I could get from him . 
Then there is Sir Oliver . 
'Fry them in oil with a dressing of Gascony , quoth he , and then swore at me because I had not been the cook . 
'Walawa , thought I , 'mad master , sober man' so away forward to the archers . 
Harrow and alas ! but they were worse than the others . 
'The ship can scarce last much longer , my masters , quoth I. 'That is your business , old swine's head , cried the black galliard . 
'Le diable t'emporte , says Aylward . 
'A five , a four and the main , shouted the big man , with a voice like the flap of a sail . 
Hark to them now , young sir , and say if I speak not sooth . 
Can I be of avail ? asked Alleyne . 
Say the word and the thing is done , if two hands may do it . 
Nay , nay , your head I can see is still totty , and i' faith little head would you have , had your bassinet not stood your friend . 
All that may be done is already carried out , for we have stuffed the gape with sails and corded it without and within . 
Yet when we bale our bowline and veer the sheet our lives will hang upon the breach remaining blocked . 
See how yonder headland looms upon us through the mist ! We must tack within three arrow flights , or we may find a rock through our timbers . 
Christopher be praised ! here is Sir Nigel , with whom I may confer . 
I prythee that you will pardon me , said the knight , clutching his way along the bulwark . 
It touches the question of dimidiation or impalement in the coat of mine uncle , Sir John Leighton of Shropshire , who took unto wife the widow of Sir Henry Oglander of Nunwell . 
The case has been much debated by pursuivants and kings of arms . 
But how is it with you , master shipman ? Ill enough , my fair lord . 
The cog must go about anon , and I know not how we may keep the water out of her . 
Go call Sir Oliver ! said Sir Nigel , and presently the portly knight made his way all astraddle down the slippery deck . 
By my soul , master shipman , this passes all patience ! he cried wrathfully . 
If this ship of yours must needs dance and skip like a clown at a kermesse , then I pray you that you will put me into one of these galeasses . 
At this moment I have two pages coursing after it from side to side , like hounds behind a leveret . 
Never did living pig gambol more lightly . 
Then do not veer , quoth Sir Oliver hastily . 
And now , fair sir , I must hasten back to see how my rogues have fared with the brawn . 
Nay , but this will scarce suffice , cried the shipman . 
If we do not veer we will be upon the rocks within the hour . 
Then veer , said Sir Oliver . 
There is my rede and now , Sir Nigel , I must crave At this instant , however , a startled shout rang out from two seamen upon the forecastle . 
Rocks ! they yelled , stabbing into the air with their forefingers . 
Yare ! yare ! screamed Goodwin Hawtayne , flinging himself upon the long pole which served as a tiller . 
She can scarce draw clear , cried Hawtayne , with his eyes from the sail to the seething line of foam . 
Edricson , that you will command my guidon bearer to put forward my banner . 
And sound the trumpets ! cried Sir Oliver . 
At the same instant she lay suddenly over , the sail drew full , and she plunged seawards amid the shoutings of the seamen and the archers . 
The Virgin be praised ! cried the shipman , wiping his brow . 
For this shall bell swing and candle burn when I see Southampton Water once more . 
Cheerily , my hearts ! Pull yarely on the bowline ! By my soul ! I would rather have a dry death , quoth Sir Oliver . 
Though , Mort Dieu ! I have eaten so many fish that it were but justice that the fish should eat me . 
Now I must back to the cabin , for I have matters there which crave my attention . 
Good Master Hawtayne , cried the boatswain , rushing aft , the water comes in upon us apace . 
The waves have driven in the sail wherewith we strove to stop the hole . 
As he spoke the seamen came swarming on to the poop and the forecastle to avoid the torrent which poured through the huge leak into the waist . 
High above the roar of the wind and the clash of the sea rose the shrill half human cries of the horses , as they found the water rising rapidly around them . 
Stop it from without ! cried Hawtayne , seizing the end of the wet sail with which the gap had been plugged . 
The force of the rush of water was checked by this obstacle , but it still squirted plentifully from every side of it . 
At the sides the horses were above the belly , and in the centre a man from the poop could scarce touch the deck with a seven foot spear . 
The cog lay lower in the water and the waves splashed freely over the weather bulwark . 
I fear that we can scarce bide upon this tack , cried Hawtayne and yet the other will drive us on the rocks . 
Might we not haul down sail and wait for better times ? suggested Sir Nigel . 
Nay , we should drift upon the rocks . 
Thirty years have I been on the sea , and never yet in greater straits . 
Yet we are in the hands of the Saints . 
Of whom , cried Sir Oliver , I look more particularly to St . 
The wrack had thickened to seaward , and the coast was but a blurred line . 
Two vague shadows in the offing showed where the galeasses rolled and tossed upon the great Atlantic rollers , Hawtayne looked wistfully in their direction . 
If they would but lie closer we might find safety , even should the cog founder . 
You will bear me out with good Master Witherton of Southampton that I have done all that a shipman might . 
Nay , said the little knight , it would be scarce fitting that a cavalier should throw off his harness for the fear of every puff of wind and puddle of water . 
I would rather that my Company should gather round me here on the poop , where we might abide together whatever God may be pleased to send . 
But , certes , Master Hawtayne , for all that my sight is none of the best , it is not the first time that I have seen that headland upon the left . 
The seaman shaded his eyes with his hand , and gazed earnestly through the haze and spray . 
Suddenly he threw up his arms and shouted aloud in his joy . 
'Tis the point of La Tremblade ! he cried . 
I had not thought that we were as far as Oleron . 
The Gironde lies before us , and once over the bar , and under shelter of the Tour de Cordouan , all will be well with us . 
A line of broken water traced the dangerous bar , which in clear day and balmy weather has cracked the back of many a tall ship . 
There is a channel , said Hawtayne , which was shown to me by the Prince's own pilot . 
Mark yonder tree upon the bank , and see the tower which rises behind it . 
God speed you , Master Hawtayne ! cried Sir Oliver . 
You are like to bring a judgment upon us with these vows , which no living man could accomplish . 
In three minutes we shall either be lost or in safety . 
Archers and seamen lay flat upon the deck , waiting in stolid silence for whatever fate might come . 
Hawtayne bent his weight upon the tiller , and crouched to see under the bellying sail . 
Sir Oliver and Sir Nigel stood erect with hands crossed in front of the poop . 
Down swooped the great cog into the narrow channel which was the portal to safety . 
On either bow roared the shallow bar . 
Right ahead one small lane of black swirling water marked the pilot's course . 
But true was the eye and firm the hand which guided . 
HOW SIR NIGEL LORING PUT A PATCH UPON HIS EYE . 
IT was on the morning of Friday , the eight and twentieth day of November , two days before the feast of St . 
Andrew , that the cog and her two prisoners , after a weary tacking up the Girondo and the Garonne , dropped anchor at last in front of the noble city of Bordeaux . 
Alleyne could see the smoke of their forges reeking up in the clear morning air . 
The storm had died down now to a gentle breeze , which wafted to his ears the long drawn stirring bugle calls which sounded from the ancient ramparts . 
Hola , mon petit ! said Aylward , coming up to where he stood . 
Thou art a squire now , and like enough to win the golden spurs , while I am still the master bowman , and master bowman I shall bide . 
I take it unkind that you should have thought such evil of me . 
'Twas but a flight shot to see if the wind blew steady , though I were a rogue to doubt it . 
It was a good hostel , that of the 'Pied Merlin , he remarked . 
By my ten finger bones ! when I hang bow on nail and change my brigandine for a tunic , I might do worse than take over the dame and her business . 
I thought , said Alleyne , that you were betrothed to some one at Christchurch . 
To three , Aylward answered moodily , to three . 
I fear I may not go back to Christchurch . 
I might chance to see hotter service in Hampshire than I have ever done in Gascony . 
But mark you now yonder lofty turret in the centre , which stands back from the river and hath a broad banner upon the summit . 
See the rising sun flashes full upon it and sparkles on the golden lions . 
'Tis the royal banner of England , crossed by the prince's label . 
There he dwells in the Abbey of St . 
Andrew , where he hath kept his court these years back . 
Beside it is the minster of the same saint , who hath the town under his very special care . 
And how of yon gray turret on the left ? 'Tis the fane of St . 
Michael , as that upon the right is of St . 
There , too , above the poop of yonder nief , you see the towers of Saint Croix and of Pey Berland . 
Mark also the mighty ramparts which are pierced by the three water gates , and sixteen others to the landward side . 
And how is it , good Aylward , that there comes so much music from the town ? I seem to hear a hundred trumpets , all calling in chorus . 
Ma foi ! they make as much louster as a Scotch army , where every man fills himself with girdle cakes , and sits up all night to blow upon the toodle pipe . 
I trust , Aylward , said Sir Nigel , coming upon deck , that the men are ready for the land . 
Go tell them that the boats will be for them within the hour . 
The archer raised his hand in salute , and hastened forward . 
There flies the prince's banner , and it would be well that we haste ashore and pay our obeisance to him . 
The boats already swarm from the bank . 
There is a goodly hostel near the west gate , which is famed for the stewing of spiced pullets , remarked Sir Oliver . 
His betters ! His betters before the tranchoir , lad . 
Sniff not treason where none is meant . 
I have seen him smile in his quiet way because I had looked for the fourth time towards the carving squire . 
Yet war and glory , my good friend , though well enough in their way , will not serve to tighten such a belt as clasps my waist . 
How read you that coat which hangs over yonder galley , Alleyne ? asked Sir Nigel . 
Argent , a bend vert between cotises dancette gules . 
It is a northern coat . 
I have seen it in the train of the Percies . 
From the shields , there is not one of these vessels which hath not knight or baron aboard . 
I would mine eyes were better . 
How read you this upon the left ? Argent and azure , a barry wavy of six . 
Paul ! it would be a very strange thing if so noble a company were to gather without some notable deed of arms arising from it . 
The horses both of knights and squires were speedily lowered into a broad lighter , and reached the shore almost as soon as their masters . 
Sir Nigel bent his knee devoutly as he put foot on land , and taking a small black patch from his bosom he bound it tightly over his left eye . 
May the blessed George and the memory of my sweet lady love raise high my heart ! quoth he . 
And this I swear upon the cross of my sword and upon the glove of my lady . 
In truth , you take me back twenty years , Nigel , quoth Sir Oliver , as they mounted and rode slowly through the water gate . 
Yet it goes hard with you that you should darken one side , when with both open you can scarce tell a horse from a mule . 
In truth , friend , I think that you step over the line of reason in this matter . 
But is not that my Lord Delewar who waves to us ? Ha ! my fair lord , God and Our Lady be with you ! And there is Sir Robert Cheney . 
Good morrow , Robert ! I am right glad to see you . 
See to the brave stalls ! cried Alleyne . 
I have seen a silversmith's booth there which would serve to buy either side of this street . 
But mark these houses , Alleyne , how they thrust forth upon the top . 
And see to the coats of arms at every window , and banner or pensel on the roof . 
And the churches ! cried Alleyne . 
And hark to the speech of the folk ! said Ford . 
Was ever such a hissing and clacking ? I wonder that they have not wit to learn English now that they have come under the English crown . 
By Richard of Hampole ! there are fair faces amongst them . 
The town was now at the height of its fortunes . 
Besides its trade and its armorers , other causes had combined to pour wealth into it . 
War , which had wrought evil upon so many fair cities around , had brought nought but good to this one . 
Through all her sixteen landward gates there had set for many years a double tide of empty handed soldiers hurrying Francewards , and of enriched and laden bands who brought their spoils home . 
In front of the minster and abbey of St . 
Andrews was a large square crowded with priests , soldiers , women , friars , and burghers , who made it their common centre for sight seeing and gossip . 
Two score archers stood about the gateway , and beat back from time to time with their bow staves the inquisitive and chattering crowd who swarmed round the portal . 
It is Sir William de Pakington , the prince's own herald and scrivener , whispered Sir Nigel , as they pulled up amid the line of knights who waited admission . 
Ill fares it with the man who would venture to deceive him . 
We may leave our horses here with the varlets , and push forward with our squires . 
Mackworth ! said the king at arms . 
It is in my mind , young sir , that you have not been presented before . 
Nay , it is but a day since I set foot in Bordeaux , but I feared lest the prince should think it strange that I had not waited upon him . 
I am a Mackworth of Normanton , the other answered , with some uneasiness of manner . 
Then you must be Sir Stephen Mackworth , for I learn that when old Sir Guy died he came in for the arms and the name , the war cry and the profit . 
Sir Stephen is my elder brother , and I am Arthur , the second son , said the youth . 
In sooth and in sooth ! cried the king at arms with scornful eyes . 
And pray , sir second son , where is the cadency mark which should mark your rank . 
Dare you to wear your brother's coat without the crescent which should stamp you as his cadet . 
Away to your lodgings , and come not nigh the prince until the armorer hath placed the true charge upon your shield . 
As the youth withdrew in confusion , Sir William's keen eye singled out the five red roses from amid the overlapping shields and cloud of pennons which faced him . 
Ha ! he cried , there are charges here which are above counterfeit . 
The roses of Loring and the boar's head of Buttesthorn may stand back in peace , but by my faith ! they are not to be held back in war . 
Welcome , Sir Oliver , Sir Nigel ! Chandos will be glad to his very heart roots when he sees you . 
This way , my fair sirs . 
Your squires are doubtless worthy the fame of their masters . 
Down this passage , Sir Oliver ! Edricson ! Ha ! one of the old strain of Hampshire Edricsons , I doubt not . 
And Ford , they are of a south Saxon stock , and of good repute . 
There are Norburys in Cheshire and in Wiltshire , and also , as I have heard , upon the borders . 
So , my fair sirs , and I shall see that you are shortly admitted . 
The room was very spacious , lighted on one side by three arched and mullioned windows , while opposite was a huge fireplace in which a pile of faggots was blazing merrily . 
Many of the company had crowded round the flames , for the weather was bitterly cold but the two knights seated themselves upon a bancal , with their squires standing behind them . 
On the further side was a small door , on each side of which stood men at arms . 
The two knights were deep in talk , when Alleyne became aware of a remarkable individual who was walking round the room in their direction . 
Yet , from the swing of his stride and the spring of his step , it was clear that he had not yet lost the fire and activity of his youth . 
His fierce hawk like face was clean shaven like that of a priest , save for a long thin wisp of white moustache which drooped down half way to his shoulder . 
Yet what knight was there in that hall of St . 
I heard that you were here and have been seeking you . 
Ah , Sir Oliver ! you were on the blind side of me and I saw you not . 
A wise woman hath made prophecy that this blind side will one day be the death of me . 
But how left you the Lady Loring ? She was well , my fair lord , and sent her service and greetings to you . 
I am ever her knight and slave . 
And your journey , I trust that it was pleasant ? As heart could wish . 
We had sight of two rover galleys , and even came to have some slight bickering with them . 
Ever in luck's way , Nigel ! quoth Sir John . 
We must hear the tale anon . 
Follow close behind me , and I will forestall old Sir William , though I can scarce promise to roll forth your style and rank as is his wont . 
CHAPTER XIX HOW THERE WAS STIR AT THE ABBEY OF ST . 
THE prince's reception room , although of no great size , was fitted up with all the state and luxury which the fame and power of its owner demanded . 
A high dais at the further end was roofed in by a broad canopy of scarlet velvet spangled with silver fleurs de lis , and supported at either corner by silver rods . 
This was approached by four steps carpeted with the same material , while all round were scattered rich cushions , oriental mats and costly rugs of fur . 
He sat with his two hands clasped round his knee , his head slightly bent , and an expression of impatience and of trouble upon his clear , well chiselled features . 
Behind the thrones there stood two men in purple gowns , with ascetic , clean shaven faces , and half a dozen other high dignitaries and office holders of Aquitaine . 
There sits the prince , whispered Sir John Chandos , as they entered . 
He on the right is Pedro , whom we are about to put upon the spanish throne . 
The other is Don James , whom we purpose with the aid of God to help to his throne in Majorca . 
Now follow me , and take it not to heart if he be a little short in his speech , for indeed his mind is full of many very weighty concerns . 
The prince , however , had already observed their entrance , and , springing to his feet , he had advanced with a winning smile and the light of welcome in his eyes . 
We do not need your good offices as herald here , Sir John , said he in a low but clear voice these valiant knights are very well known to me . 
Welcome to Aquitaine , Sir Nigel Loring and Sir Oliver Buttesthorn . 
Nay , keep your knee for my sweet father at Windsor . 
I would have your hands , my friends . 
We are like to give you some work to do ere you see the downs of Hampshire once more . 
Your doubts , Sir Oliver , shall soon be resolved , answered the prince , laughing heartily , as did many of the barons who surrounded them . 
His majesty here will doubtless order that you have this dish hotly seasoned when we are all safely in Castile . 
I will have a hotly seasoned dish for some folk I know of , answered Don Pedro with a cold smile . 
But my friend Sir Oliver can fight right hardily without either bite or sup , remarked the prince . 
Did I not see him at Poictiers , when for two days we had not more than a crust of bread and a cup of foul water , yet carrying himself most valiantly . 
With my own eyes I saw him in the rout sweep the head from a knight of Picardy with one blow of his sword . 
The rogue got between me and the nearest French victual wain , muttered Sir Oliver , amid a fresh titter from those who were near enough to catch his words . 
How many have you in your train ? asked the prince , assuming a graver mien . 
I have forty men at arms , sire , said Sir Oliver . 
And I have one hundred archers and a score of lancers , but there are two hundred men who wait for me on this side of the water upon the borders of Navarre . 
And who are they , Sir Nigel ? They are a free company , sire , and they are called the White Company . 
To the astonishment of the knight , his words provoked a burst of merriment from the barons round , in which the two kings and the prince were fain to join . 
Perchance , my fair sir , he whispered , there is some small vow of which I may relieve you . 
Might we not have some honorable debate upon the matter . 
Your gentle courtesy may perhaps grant me an exchange of thrusts . 
Nay , nay , Sir Nigel , cried the prince , fasten not the offence upon Sir Robert Briquet , for we are one and all bogged in the same mire . 
I little thought to find him among the bravest of my own chosen chieftains . 
But the vow is now nought , for , as you have never seen your company , it would be a fool's act to blame you for their doings . 
My liege , said Sir Nigel , it is a very small matter that I should be hanged , albeit the manner of death is somewhat more ignoble than I had hoped for . 
Vex not your mind on that , the prince answered , smiling . 
My dear and honored master , cried Nigel , in great anxiety , I fear me much that in your gentleness of heart you are straining this vow which you have taken . 
If there be so much as a shadow of a doubt as to the form of it , it were a thousand times best Peace ! peace ! cried the prince impatiently . 
I am very well able to look to my own vows and their performance . 
We hope to see you both in the banquet hall anon . 
Meanwhile you will attend upon us with our train . 
He bowed , and Chandos , plucking Sir Oliver by the sleeve , led them both away to the back of the press of courtiers . 
Why , little coz , he whispered , you are very eager to have your neck in a noose . 
By my soul ! had you asked as much from our new ally Don Pedro , he had not baulked you . 
Between friends , there is overmuch of the hangman in him , and too little of the prince . 
But indeed this White Company is a rough band , and may take some handling ere you find yourself safe in your captaincy . 
I doubt not , with the help of St . 
Paul , that I shall bring them to some order , Sir Nigel answered . 
But there are many faces here which are new to me , though others have been before me since first I waited upon my dear master , Sir Walter . 
And the dark knight with gray streaked beard ? By my troth , he seems to be a man of much wisdom and valor . 
He is Sir William Fenton , who , with my unworthy self , is the chief counsellor of the prince , he being high steward and I the seneschal of Aquitaine . 
And the knights upon the right , beside Von Pedro ? They are cavaliers of Spain who have followed him in his exile . 
The one at his elbow is Fernando de Castro , who is as brave and true a man as heart could wish . 
In front to the right are the Gascon lords . 
You may well tell them by their clouded brows , for there hath been some ill will of late betwixt the prince and them . 
The tall and burly man is the Captal de Buch , whom I doubt not that you know , for a braver knight never laid lance in rest . 
That heavy faced cavalier who plucks his skirts and whispers in his ear is Lord Oliver de Clisson , known also as the butcher . 
He it is who stirs up strife , and forever blows the dying embers into flame . 
Further back are knights from Quercy , Limousin , Saintonge , Poitou , and Aquitaine , with the valiant Sir Guiscard d'Angle . 
That is he in the rose colored doublet with the ermine . 
And the knights upon this side ? They are all Englishmen , some of the household and others who like yourself , are captains of companies . 
Mark well the man with the high nose and flaxen beard who hath placed his hand upon the shoulder of the dark hard faced cavalier in the rust stained jupon . 
Paul ! observed Sir Nigel , they both bear the print of their armor upon their cotes hardies . 
Methinks they are men who breathe freer in a camp than a court . 
There are many of us who do that , Nigel , said Chandos , and the head of the court is , I dare warrant , among them . 
But of these two men the one is Sir Hugh Calverley , and the other is Sir Robert Knolles . 
He hath no light hand in war , hath Sir Robert , said Chandos . 
If he passes through a country you may tell it for some years to come . 
I have heard that in the north it is still the use to call a house which hath but the two gable ends left , without walls or roof , a Knolles' mitre . 
I have often heard of him , said Nigel , and I have hoped to be so far honored as to run a course with him . 
How now , Don Martin de la Carra ? he cried . 
With stately steps and many profound bows , he advanced to the foot of the dais before replying to the prince's question . 
We already know our cousin's titles and style , and , certes , we know our own . 
It is a sorry sight to see so true a knight pleading in so false a cause . 
We know the doings of our cousin Charles . 
I know our good Charles , and , by my blessed name saint the Confessor , he shall learn that I know him . 
He sets his kingdom up to the best bidder , like some scullion farrier selling a glandered horse . 
He is My lord , cried Don Martin , I cannot stand there to hear such words of my master . 
Did they come from other lips , I should know better how to answer them . 
Don Pedro frowned and curled his lip , but the prince smiled and nodded his approbation . 
Your bearing and your words , Don Martin , are such I should have looked for in you , he remarked . 
He stooped and whispered to Sir Robert Knolles and Sir Huge Calverley , who smiled as men well pleased , and hastened from the room . 
Our cousin Charles has had experience of our friendship , the prince continued , and now , by the Saints ! he shall feel a touch of our displeasure . 
I send now a message to our cousin Charles which his whole kingdom may read . 
Let him take heed lest worse befall him . 
Where is my Lord Chandos ? Ha , Sir John , I commend this worthy knight to your care . 
How say you , sire ? he asked , turning to the Spanish refugee , while the herald of Navarre was conducted from the chamber by the old warrior . 
It is not our custom in Spain to reward pertness in a messenger , Don Pedro answered , patting the head of his greyhound . 
Yet we have all heard the lengths to which your royal generosity runs . 
In sooth , yes , cried the King of Majorca . 
Nay , nay , as brothers to a brother , cried the prince , with sparkling eyes . 
We doubt not , with the help of God , to see you very soon restored to those thrones from which you have been so traitorously thrust . 
And , added the other , upon every aid which the wealth and power of Majorca can bestow . 
Touching the hundred thousand crowns in which I stand your debtor , continued Pedro carelessly , it can no doubt Not a word , sire , not a word ! cried the prince . 
It is not now when you are in grief that I would vex your mind with such base and sordid matters . 
I have said once and forever that I am yours with every bow string of my army and every florin in my coffers . 
Ah ! here is indeed a mirror of chivalry , said Don Pedro . 
I think , Sir Fernando , since the prince's bounty is stretched so far , that we may make further use of his gracious goodness to the extent of fifty thousand crowns . 
Good Sir William Felton , here , will doubtless settle the matter with you . 
The stout old English counsellor looked somewhat blank at this prompt acceptance of his master's bounty . 
If you could wait until the promised help from England comes Nay , nay , my sweet cousin , cried Don Pedro . 
Go , raise this money upon our own jewels , if nought else may serve , and see that it be paid over to Don Fernando . 
In security I offer cried Don Pedro . 
Tush ! tush ! said the prince . 
I am not a Lombard , sire . 
Your kingly pledge is my security , without bond or seal . 
A buzz of joy at the prospect of immediate action rose up from the group of warriors . 
The prince smiled at the martial ardor which shone upon every face around him . 
We hold Bertrand in high esteem , for he has oft before been at great pains to furnish us with an honorable encounter . 
What think you of it , my worthy Captal ? He took you at Cocherel , and , by my soul I you will have the chance now to pay that score . 
By heaven ! but this is too much , cried an English nobleman . 
Methinks that Gascony is too small a cock to crow so lustily . 
The smaller cock , my Lord Audley , may have the longer spur , remarked the Captal de Buch . 
May have its comb clipped if it make over much noise , broke in an Englishman . 
By our Lady of Rocamadour ! cried the Lord of Mucident , this is more than I can abide . 
Sir John Charnell , you shall answer to me for those words ! Freely , my lord , and when you will , returned the Englishman carelessly . 
My Lord de Clisson , cried Lord Audley , you look some , what fixedly in my direction . 
By God's soul ! I should be right glad to go further into the matter with you . 
For a moment a dozen challenges flashed backwards and forwards at this sudden bursting of the cloud which had lowered so long between the knights of the two nations . 
Friends , friends ! he cried at last , this quarrel must go no further . 
The man shall answer to me , be he Gascon or English , who carries it beyond this room . 
I have overmuch need for your swords that you should turn them upon each other . 
Sir John Charnell , Lord Audley , you do not doubt the courage of our friends of Gascony ? Not I , sire , Lord Audley answered . 
I have seen them fight too often not to know that they are very hardy and valiant gentlemen . 
And so say I , quoth the other Englishman but , certes , there is no fear of our forgetting it while they have a tongue in their heads . 
Nay , Sir John , said the prince reprovingly , all peoples have their own use and customs . 
There are some who might call us cold and dull and silent . 
Clisson , Captal , De Pommers , I have your word ? We are your subjects , sire , said the Gascon barons , though with no very good grace . 
Your words are our law . 
Then shall we bury all cause of unkindness in a flagon of Malvoisie , said the prince , cheerily . 
Ho , there ! the doors of the banquet hall ! I have been over long from my sweet spouse but I shall be back with you anon . 
HOW ALLEYNE WON HIS PLACE IN AN HONORABLE GUILD . 
How is it with the old man at Windsor ? asked one . 
And how with the good Queen Philippa ? And how with Dame Alice Perrers ? cried a third . 
The devil take your tongue , Wat ! shouted a tall young man , seizing the last speaker by the collar and giving him an admonitory shake . 
The prince would take your head off for those words . 
By God's coif ! Wat would miss it but little , said another . 
It is as empty as a beggar's wallet . 
As empty as an English squire , coz , cried the first speaker . 
What a devil has become of the maitre destables and his sewers ? They have not put forth the trestles yet . 
Mon Dieu ! if a man could eat himself into knighthood , Humphrey , you had been a banneret at the least , observed another , amid a burst of laughter . 
And if you could drink yourself in , old leather head , you had been first baron of the realm , cried the aggrieved Humphrey . 
And why less noise , young Solomon ? Ah , that is for your wit to discover . 
Pardieu ! here is a paladin come over , with the Hampshire mud still sticking to his shoes . 
He means that the noise is less for our being out of the country . 
They are very quick in these parts , said Ford , turning to Alleyne . 
How are we to take this , sir ? asked the ruffling squire . 
You may take it as it comes , said Ford carelessly . 
Here is pertness ! cried the other . 
Sir , I honor your truthfulness , said Ford . 
Stint it , Humphrey , said the tall squire , with a burst of laughter . 
You will have little credit from this gentleman , I perceive . 
Tongues are sharp in Hampshire , sir . 
And swords ? Hum ! we may prove that . 
In two days' time is the vepres du tournoi , when we may see if your lance is as quick as your wit . 
All very well , Roger Harcomb , cried a burly , bullnecked young man , whose square shoulders and massive limbs told of exceptional personal strength . 
You pass too lightly over the matter . 
We are not to be so easily overcrowed . 
The Lord Loring hath given his proofs but we know nothing of his squires , save that one of them hath a railing tongue . 
And how of you , young sir ? bringing his heavy hand down on Alleyne's shoulder . 
And what of me , young sir ? Ma foi ! this is my lady's page come over . 
Your cheek will be browner and your hand harder ere you see your mother again . 
If my hand is not hard , it is ready . 
Ready ? Ready for what ? For the hem of my lady's train ? Ready to chastise insolence , sir , cried Alleyne with hashing eyes . 
Sweet little coz ! answered the burly squire . 
You seek to force a quarrel , sir , said the young man , white with anger . 
And what then ? Why , you do it like a country boor , and not like a gentle squire . 
Hast been ill bred and as ill taught . 
I serve a master who could show you how such things should he done . 
And how would he do it , O pink of squires ? He would neither be loud nor would he be unmannerly , but rather more gentle than is his wont . 
From all parts of the hall squires and pages came running , until a dense , swaying crowd surrounded the disputants . 
Your life for this ! said the bully , with a face which was distorted with rage . 
If you can take it , returned Alleyne . 
Good lad ! whispered Ford . 
Stick to it close as wax . 
I shall see justice , cried Newbury , Sir Oliver's silent attendant . 
You brought it upon yourself , John Tranter , said the tall squire , who had been addressed as Roger Harcomb . 
You must ever plague the new comers . 
But it were shame if this went further . 
The lad hath shown a proper spirit . 
But a blow ! a blow ! cried several of the older squires . 
There must be a finish to this . 
Nay Tranter first laid hand upon his head , said Harcomb . 
Let him pick up his glove and say that he has done amiss . 
I would see him in the claws of the devil first , whispered Ford . 
You hear , young sir ? said the peacemaker . 
Our friend will overlook the matter if you do but say that you have acted in heat and haste . 
I cannot say that , answered Alleyne . 
It is our custom , young sir , when new squires come amongst us from England , to test them in some such way . 
Bethink you that if a man have a destrier or a new lance he will ever try it in time of peace , lest in days of need it may fail him . 
How much more then is it proper to test those who are our comrades in arms . 
I would draw out if it may honorably be done , murmured Norbury in Alleyne's ear . 
The man is a noted swordsman and far above your strength . 
Edricson came , however , of that sturdy Saxon blood which is very slowly heated , but once up not easily to be cooled . 
The hint of danger which Norbury threw out was the one thing needed to harden his resolution . 
I came here at the back of my master , he said , and I looked on every man here as an Englishman and a friend . 
This gentleman hath shown me a rough welcome , and if I have answered him in the same spirit he has but himself to thank . 
I will pick the glove up but , certes , I shall abide what I have done unless he first crave my pardon for what he hath said and done . 
You have done what you could to save him , Harcomb , said he . 
We had best settle at once . 
So say I , cried Alleyne . 
The council will not break up until the banquet , remarked a gray haired squire . 
You have a clear two hours . 
And the place ? The tilting yard is empty at this hour . 
Nay it must not be within the grounds of the court , or it may go hard with all concerned if it come to the ears of the prince . 
But there is a quiet spot near the river , said one youth . 
We have but to pass through the abbey grounds , along the armory wall , past the church of St . 
Remi , and so down the Rue des Apotres . 
These unfortunates crowded to the small casements , and craned their necks after the throng as far as they could catch a glimpse of them . 
The river ran deep and swift up to the steep bank but there were few boats upon it , and the ships were moored far out in the centre of the stream . 
Here the two combatants drew their swords and threw off their doublets , for neither had any defensive armor . 
Hold , sirs , hold ! cried Norbury , ere a blow had been struck . 
This gentleman hath a two handed sword , a good foot longer than that of our friend . 
Take mine , Alleyne , said Ford . 
Nay , friends , he answered , I understand the weight and balance of mine own . 
To work , sir , for our lord may need us at the abbey ! Tranter's great sword was indeed a mighty vantage in his favor . 
He stood with his feet close together , his knees bent outwards , ready for a dash inwards or a spring out . 
Tranter well knew his advantage and lost no time in putting it to use . 
As his opponent walked towards him he suddenly bounded forward and sent in a whistling cut which would have severed the other in twain had he not sprung lightly back from it . 
So close was it that the point ripped a gash in the jutting edge of his linen cyclas . 
He sprang out beyond sword sweep , and the pair stood breathing heavily , while the crowd of young squires buzzed their applause . 
Bravely struck on both sides ! cried Roger Harcomb . 
You have both won honor from this meeting , and it would be sin and shame to let it go further . 
You have done enough , Edricson , said Norbury . 
You have carried yourself well , cried several of the older squires . 
For my part , I have no wish to slay this young man , said Tranter , wiping his heated brow . 
Does this gentleman crave my pardon for having used me despitefully ? asked Alleyne . 
A three parts parried blow drew blood from Alleyne's left shoulder , but at the same moment he wounded Tranter slightly upon the thigh . 
Your life is in my hands ! cried Tranter , with a bitter smile . 
Nay , nay , he makes submission ! broke in several squires . 
Another sword ! cried Ford . 
Nay , sir , said Harcomb , that is not the custom . 
Throw down your hilt , Edricson , cried Norbury . 
Do you crave my pardon , sir ? You are mad to ask it . 
Then on guard again ! cried the young squire , and sprang in with a fire and a fury which more than made up for the shortness of his weapon . 
It had not escaped him that his opponent was breathing in short , hoarse gasps , like a man who is dizzy with fatigue . 
Now was the time for the purer living and the more agile limb to show their value . 
Back and back gave Tranter , ever seeking time for a last cut . 
Yet his experienced foeman knew well that such efforts could not be long sustained . 
Let him relax for one instant , and his death blow had come . 
Relax he must ! Flesh and blood could not stand the strain . 
Already the thrusts were less fierce , the foot less ready , although there was no abatement of the spirit in the steady gray eyes . 
Tranter , cunning and wary from years of fighting , knew that his chance had come . 
He brushed aside the frail weapon which was opposed to him , whirled up his great blade , sprang back to get the fairer sweep and vanished into the waters of the Garonne . 
It was not until Tranter , giving back before the other's fiery rush , was upon the very brink , that a general cry warned him of his danger . 
Once and twice his gasping face and clutching fingers broke up through the still green water , sweeping outwards in the swirl of the current . 
In vain were sword sheaths , apple branches and belts linked together thrown out to him by his companions . 
Alleyne had dropped his shattered sword and was standing , trembling in every limb , with his rage all changed in an instant to pity . 
For the third time the drowning man came to the surface , his hands full of green slimy water plants , his eyes turned in despair to the shore . 
Their glance fell upon Alleyne , and he could not withstand the mute appeal which he read in them . 
For a hundred strokes he did not seem to gain an inch . 
Three pulls from eager arms , and the two combatants , dripping and pale , were dragged up the bank , and lay panting upon the grass . 
John Tranter was the first to come to himself , for although he had been longer in the water , he had done nothing during that fierce battle with the current . 
I am much beholden to you , sir , said Tranter , though in no very friendly voice . 
I ask no thanks , Alleyne answered shortly . 
Give me your hand to rise , Ford . 
The river has been my enemy , said Tranter , but it hath been a good friend to you , for it has saved your life this day . 
That is as it may be , returned Alleyne . 
But all is now well over , quoth Harcomb , and no scath come of it , which is more than I had at one time hoped for . 
Our young friend here hath very fairly and honestly earned his right to be craftsman of the Honorable Guild of the Squires of Bordeaux . 
Here is your doublet , Tranter . 
Alas for my poor sword which lies at the bottom of the Garonne ! said the squire . 
Here is your pourpoint , Edricson , cried Norbury . 
Throw it over your shoulders , that you may have at least one dry garment . 
And now away back to the abbey ! said several . 
One moment , sirs , cried Alleyne , who was leaning on Ford's shoulder , with the broken sword , which he had picked up , still clutched in his right hand . 
What ! do you still pursue the quarrel ? asked Trenter . 
And why not , sir ? I am slow to take up such things , but once afoot I shall follow it while I have life or breath . 
Ma foi ! you have not too much of either , for you are as white as marble , said Harcomb bluntly . 
Take my rede , sir , and let it drop , for you have come very well out from it . 
The young squire was deadly white from his exertions , both on the land and in the water . 
His opponent's duller and more material mind quailed before the fire and intensity of a higher spiritual nature . 
I had not thought that you had taken it so amiss , said he awkwardly . 
It was but such a jest as we play upon each other , and , if you must have it so , I am sorry for it . 
Then I am sorry too , quoth Alleyne warmly , and here is my hand upon it . 
And the none meat horn has blown three times , quoth Harcomb , as they all streamed in chattering groups from the ground . 
I know not what the prince's maitre de cuisine will say or think . 
By my troth ! master Ford , your friend here is in need of a cup of wine , for he hath drunk deeply of Garonne water . 
I had not thought from his fair face that he had stood to this matter so shrewdly . 
Faith , said Ford , this air of Bordeaux hath turned our turtle dove into a game cock . 
A milder or more courteous youth never came out of Hampshire . 
HOW AGOSTINO PISANO RISKED HIS HEAD . 
EVEN the squires' table at the Abbey of St . 
Andrew's at Bordeaux was on a very sumptuous scale while the prince held his court there . 
Here first , after the meagre fare of Beaulieu and the stinted board of the Lady Loring , Alleyne learned the lengths to which luxury and refinement might be pushed . 
An archer had brought him a change of clothes from the cog , and he had already , with the elasticity of youth , shaken off the troubles and fatigues of the morning . 
Thither then they both set out in the twilight after the long course of juggling tricks and glee singing with which the principal meal was concluded . 
In those scattered circles of dim radiance might be seen the whole busy panorama of life in a wealthy and martial city . 
Behind him his serving wench , her blue whimple over her head , and one hand thrust forth to bear the lanthorn which threw a golden bar of light along her master's path . 
Courage , child ! they heard the tall man exclaim in strange hybrid French . 
If we can win another sixty paces we are safe . 
Hold it safe , father , the other answered , in the same soft , mincing dialect . 
Several half drunken English archers , attracted , as the squires had been , by their singular appearance , were facing towards them , and peering at them through the dim light . 
Twenty devils fly away with him ! shouted another . 
Nay , with me , my heart's desire ! said the first . 
George ! our life is short , and we should be merry while we may . 
May I never see Chester Bridge again , if she is not a right winsome lass ! What hath the old toad under his arm ? cried one of the others . 
He hugs it to him as the devil hugged the pardoner . 
Nay , lads , nay ! cried Ford , pushing back the nearest archer . 
This is but scurvy conduct . 
Keep your hands off , or it will be the worse for you . 
Keep your tongue still , or it will be the worse for you , shouted the most drunken of the archers . 
Who are you to spoil sport ? A raw squire , new landed , said another . 
Thomas of Kent ! we are at the beck of our master , but we are not to be ordered by every babe whose mother hath sent him as far as Aquitaine . 
Oh , gentlemen , cried the girl in broken French , for dear Christ's sake stand by us , and do not let these terrible men do us an injury . 
Have no fears , lady , Alleyne answered . 
We shall see that all is well with you . 
Thank God ! said Alleyne suddenly , as he spied in the lamplight a shock of blazing red hair which fringed a steel cap high above the heads of the crowd . 
Here is John , and Aylward , too ! Help us , comrades , for there is wrong being done to this maid and to the old man . 
Hola , mon petit , said the old bowman , pushing his way through the crowd , with the huge forester at his heels . 
It is not to be thought that a troop of bowmen , with the wine buzzing in their ears , will be as soft spoken as so many young clerks in an orchard . 
When you have been a year with the Company you will think less of such matters . 
Why , it is old Sam Aylward of the White Company ! shouted the man at arms . 
Why , Samkin , what hath come upon thee ? I can call to mind the day when you were as roaring a blade as ever called himself a free companion . 
But it was ever a fair loose and a clear mark with me . 
The wench must be willing , or the man must be standing up against me , else , by these ten finger bones I either were safe enough for me . 
A glance at Aylward's resolute face , and at the huge shoulders of Hordle John , had convinced the archers that there was little to be got by violence . 
The girl and the old man began to shuffle on in the crowd without their tormentors venturing to stop them . 
Ford and Alleyne followed slowly behind them , but Aylward caught the latter by the shoulder . 
Nay , Aylward , I will have a care . 
Thrust not forward into danger too much , mon petit . 
In a little time your wrist will be stronger and your cut more shrewd . 
Brave young signor , cried the tall man , throwing his arms round Alleyne , how can we thank you enough for taking our parts against those horrible drunken barbarians . 
What should we have done without you ? My Tita would have been dragged away , and my head would have been shivered into a thousand fragments . 
Nay , I scarce think that they would have mishandled you so , said Alleyne in surprise . 
Ho , ho ! cried he with a high crowing laugh , it is not the head upon my shoulders that I think of . 
It is the head under my arm which you have preserved . 
Perhaps the signori would deign to come under our roof , father , said the maiden . 
If we bide here , who knows that some fresh tumult may not break out . 
Well said , Tita ! Well said , my girl ! I pray you , sirs , to honor my unworthy roof so far . 
A light , Giacomo ! There are five steps up . 
So ! Here we are at last in safety . 
Corpo di Baccho ! I would not have given ten maravedi for my head when those children of the devil were pushing us against the wall . 
Tita mia , you have been a brave girl , and it was better that you should be pulled and pushed than that my head should be broken . 
Yes indeed , father , said she earnestly . 
My God I were ever such people upon earth ! What place is free from them ? I hear that they swarm in Italy even as they swarm here . 
Everywhere you will find them , except in heaven . 
Dear father , cried Tita , still supporting the angry old man , as he limped up the curved oaken stair . 
You must not forget that these good signori who have preserved us are also English . 
My pardon , sirs ! Come into my rooms here . 
There are some who might find some pleasure in these paintings , but I learn the art of war is the only art which is held in honor in your island . 
The low roofed , oak panelled room into which he conducted them was brilliantly lit by four scented oil lamps . 
Against the walls , upon the table , on the floor , and in every part of the chamber were great sheets of glass painted in the most brilliant colors . 
Ford and Edricson gazed around them in amazement , for never had they seen such magnificent works of art . 
You like them then , the lame artist cried , in answer to the look of pleasure and of surprise in their faces . 
There are then some of you who have a taste for such trifling . 
I could not have believed it , exclaimed Alleyne . 
What color ! What outlines ! See to this martyrdom of the holy Stephen , Ford . 
Could you not yourself pick up one of these stones which lie to the hand of the wicked murtherers ? And see this stag , Alleyne , with the cross betwixt its horns . 
By my faith ! I have never seen a better one at the Forest of Bere . 
And the green of this grass how bright and clear ! Why all the painting that I have seen is but child's play beside this . 
This worthy gentleman must be one of those great painters of whom I have oft heard brother Bartholomew speak in the old days at Beaulieu . 
The dark mobile face of the artist shone with pleasure at the unaffected delight of the two young Englishmen . 
His daughter had thrown off her mantle and disclosed a face of the finest and most delicate Italian beauty , which soon drew Ford's eyes from the pictures in front of him . 
Alleyne , however , continued with little cries of admiration and of wonderment to turn from the walls to the table and yet again to the walls . 
What think you of this , young sir ? asked the painter , tearing off the cloth which concealed the flat object which he had borne beneath his arm . 
He clapped his hands , with that thrill of joy which true art will ever give to a true artist . 
It is great ! he cried . 
It is wonderful ! But I marvel , sir , that you should have risked a work of such beauty and value by bearing it at night through so unruly a crowd . 
I have indeed been rash , said the artist . 
Some wine , Tita , from the Florence flask ! Had it not been for you , I tremble to think of what might have come of it . 
There you can see the very veins and the throb of thee blood . 
Yes , diavolo ! if it had broken , my heart would have broken too . 
It is for the choir window in the church of St . 
Remi , and we had gone , my little helper and I , to see if it was indeed of the size for the stonework . 
So little that I scarce dare speak of it in your presence , Alleyne answered . 
I have been cloister bred , and it was no very great matter to handle the brush better than my brother novices . 
There are pigments , brush , and paper , said the old artist . 
I do not give you glass , for that is another matter , and takes much skill in the mixing of colors . 
Now I pray you to show me a touch of your art . 
I thank you , Tita ! The Venetian glasses , cara mia , and fill them to the brim . 
When he glanced up again , Alleyne had , with a few bold strokes of the brush , tinted in a woman's face and neck upon the white sheet in front of him . 
Why , on my faith , it is not unlike her ! said Alleyne , in some confusion . 
Ah ! a portrait ! So much the better . 
Young man , I am Agostino Pisano , the son of Andrea Pisano , and I say again that you have power . 
I would be right glad to study under such a master , said Alleyne but I am sworn to follow my lord whilst this war lasts . 
War ! war ! cried the old Italian . 
Ever this talk of war . 
You pull down , you despoil but they build up , they restore . 
And I have seen them with my own eyes , these very eyes which look upon you . 
I have seen Andrea Orcagna , Taddeo Gaddi , Giottino , Stefano , Simone Memmi men whose very colors I am not worthy to mix . 
Ah , signori , there are the real great men whose names will be held in honor when your soldiers are shown to have been the enemies of humankind . 
Have you indeed done them all ? and where are they to go ? Yes , signor , they are all from my hand . 
Yet I hold that the true art of my craft lies as much in the furnace as in the brush . 
Time was when none but my countrymen could do these things but there is Clement of Chartres and others in France who are very worthy workmen . 
A stern , clear bugle call had sounded close at hand to summon some following together for the night . 
It is a sign to us as well , said Ford . 
I would fain stay here forever amid all these beautiful things staring hard at the blushing Tita as he spoke but we must be back at our lord's hostel ere he reach it . 
Amid renewed thanks and with promises to come again , the two squires bade their leave of the old Italian glass stainer and his daughter . 
HOW THE BOWMEN HELD WASSAIL AT THE ROSE DE GUIENNE . 
MON Dieu ! Alleyne , saw you ever so lovely a face ? cried Ford as they hurried along together . 
So pure , so peaceful , and so beautiful ! In sooth , yes . 
And the hue of the skin the most perfect that ever I saw . 
Marked you also how the hair curled round the brow ? It was wonder fine . 
Those eyes , too ! cried Ford . 
How clear and how tender simple . 
and yet so full of thought ! If there was a weakness it was in the chin , said Alleyne . 
It was well curved , it is true . 
A beard on the face of little Tita ! Tita ! Who spoke of Tita ? Who spoke of aught else ? It was the picture of St . 
Remy , man , of which I have been discoursing . 
You are indeed , cried Ford , laughing , a Goth , Hun , and Vandal , with all the other hard names which the old man called us . 
He bade me say to you that the Lord Loring will not need your service to night , as he sleeps with the Lord Chandos . 
By my faith ! said Ford , we do not need a guide to lead us to their presence . 
As he spoke there came a roar of singing from the tavern upon the right , with shouts of laughter and stamping of feet . 
At every man's elbow stood his leathern blackjack of beer , while at the further end a hogshead with its end knocked in promised an abundant supply for the future . 
Ford and Alleyne took their seats between Aylward and Black Simon , without their entrance checking in any degree the hubbub which was going on . 
Ale , mes camarades ? cried the bowman , or shall it be wine ? Nay , but ye must have the one or the other . 
Here , Jacques , thou limb of the devil , bring a bottrine of the oldest vernage , and see that you do not shake it . 
Hast heard the news ? Nay , cried both the squires . 
That we are to have a brave tourney . 
A tourney ? Aye , lads . 
Why should the knights have all the sport ? growled Hordle John . 
Could they not set up five archers for the honor of Aquitaine and of Gascony ? Or five men at arms , said Black Simon . 
But who are the English knights ? asked Hawtayne . 
Nay , the prince would not permit it . 
He is to be marshal of the lists , with Sir William Felton and the Duc d'Armagnac . 
The English will be the Lord Audley , Sir Thomas Percy , Sir Thomas Wake , Sir William Beauchamp , and our own very good lord and leader . 
Hurrah for him , and God be with him ! cried several . 
It is honor to draw string in his service , So you may well say , said Aylward . 
By my ten finger bones ! if you march behind the pennon of the five roses you are like to see all that a good bowman would wish to see . 
I see that he has a patch over his eye , even as he had at Poictiers . 
There will come bloodshed of that patch , or I am the more mistaken . 
How chanced it at Poictiers , good Master Aylward ? asked one of the young archers , leaning upon his elbows , with his eyes fixed respectfully upon the old bowman's rugged face . 
Ask him ! said Aylward modestly , nodding towards Black Simon . 
He saw more than I did . 
And yet , by the holy nails ! there was not very much that I did not see either . 
Ah , yes , said Simon , shaking his head , it was a great day . 
I never hope to see such another . 
There were some fine archers who drew their last shaft that day . 
We shall never see better men , Aylward . 
By my hilt ! no . 
There was little Robby Withstaff , and Andrew Salblaster , and Wat Alspaye , who broke the neck of the German . 
But the fight , Aylward , the fight ! cried several impatiently . 
Let me fill my jack first , boys , for it is a thirsty tale . 
It was at the first fall of the leaf that the prince set forth , and he passed through Auvergne , and Berry , and Anjou , and Touraine . 
In Auvergne the maids are kind , but the wines are sour . 
In Berry it is the women that are sour , but the wines are rich . 
Anjou , however , is a very good land for bowmen , for wine and women are all that heart could wish . 
From thence we went to Bourges , were I had a tunic of flame colored silk and a very fine pair of shoes with tassels of silk and drops of silver . 
From a stall , Aylward ? asked one of the young archers . 
Nay , from a man's feet , lad . 
I had reason to think that he might not need them again , seeing that a thirty inch shaft had feathered in his back . 
And what then , Aylward ? On we went , coz , some six thousand of us , until we came to Issodun , and there again a very great thing befell . 
A battle , Aylward ? Nay , nay a greater thing than that . 
There is little to be gained out of a battle , unless one have the fortune to win a ransom . 
At Issodun I and three Welshmen came upon a house which all others had passed , and we had the profit of it to ourselves . 
For myself , I had a fine feather bed a thing which you will not see in a long day's journey in England . 
You have seen it , Alleyne , and you , John . 
You will bear me out that it is a noble bed . 
We put it on a sutler's mule , and bore it after the army . 
It was on my mind that I would lay it by until I came to start house of mine own , and I have it now in a very safe place near Lyndhurst . 
And what then , master bowman ? asked Hawtayne . 
You are right , master shipman , said another of the older archers . 
It is an old bowyer's rede that the second feather of a fenny goose is better than the pinion of a tame one . 
Draw on old lad , for I have come between you and the clout . 
On we went then , said Aylward , after a long pull at his blackjack . 
There were some six thousand of us , with the prince and his knights , and the feather bed upon a sutler's mule in the centre . 
Mon Dieu ! there are some folk who have no fear of Domesday in them , and no sign of grace in their souls , for ever clutching and clawing at another's chattels . 
But the battle , Aylward , the battle ! cried several , amid a burst of laughter . 
I come to it , my young war pups . 
On both sides were archers , men at arms and knights behind , and in the centre the baggage , with my feather bed upon a sutler's mule . 
Three hundred chosen knights came straight for it , and , indeed , they were very brave men , but such a drift of arrows met them that few came back . 
Ma foi ! it was a foolish thing , for we came forth from the hedges , and there was naught to guard the baggage had they ridden round behind us . 
Andrew for if you forget the blessed when things are well with you , they are very likely to forget you when you have need of them . 
If I come down to you , Silas , I may lay my belt across your shoulders , Aylward answered , amid a general shout of laughter . 
But it is time young chickens went to roost when they dare cackle against their elders . 
It is late , Simon . 
Nay , let us have another song . 
Here is Arnold of Sowley will troll as good a stave as any man in the Company . 
Nay , we have one here who is second to none , said Hawtayne , laying his hand upon big John's shoulder . 
I have heard him on the cog with a voice like the wave upon the shore . 
I pray you , friend , to give us 'The Bells of Milton , or , if you will , 'The Franklin's Maid . 
There came a squire so debonair His dress was rich , his words were fair , He sweetly sang , he deftly played He could not win the franklin's maid . 
There came a mercer wonder fine With velvet cap and gaberdine For all his ships , for all his trade He could not buy the franklin's maid . 
I sang that ditty in Hordle ale house ere I ever thought to be an archer myself , quoth he . 
Fill up your stoups ! cried Black Simon , thrusting his own goblet into the open hogshead in front of him . 
To a bloody war ! shouted a fourth . 
Many to go and few to come ! With the most gold to the best steel ! added a fifth . 
And a last cup to the maids of our heart ! cried Aylward A steady hand and a true eye , boys so let two quarts be a bowman's portion . 
With shout and jest and snatch of song they streamed from the room , and all was peaceful once more in the Rose de Guienne . 
HOW ENGLAND HELD THE LISTS AT BORDEAUX . 
SO used were the good burghers of Bordeaux to martial display and knightly sport , that an ordinary joust or tournament was an everyday matter with them . 
The fame and brilliancy of the prince's court had drawn the knights errant and pursuivants of arms from every part of Europe . 
From the distant camp of Dax , too , and from Blaye , Bourge , Libourne , St . 
Emilion , Castillon , St . 
It was , as may well be imagined , no easy matter among so many noted cavaliers to choose out five on either side who should have precedence over their fellows . 
Lord Audley of Cheshire , the hero of Poictiers , and Loring of Hampshire , who was held to be the second lance in the army , were easily fixed upon . 
You have seen me hold a spear since I had strength to lift one , and should know best whether I do not merit a place among this honorable company . 
We are not too well loved by the Gascons now , and it is but the golden link of your princely coronet which holds us together . 
If that be snapped I know not what would follow . 
Snapped , Sir John ! cried the prince , with an angry sparkle in his dark eyes . 
What manner of talk is this ? You speak as though the allegiance of our people were a thing which might be thrown off or on like a falcon's jessel . 
You are over grave to day , John , the prince answered . 
We may keep such questions for our council chamber . 
But how now , my brothers of Spain , and of Majorca . 
James of Compostella ! but these burghers would bear some taxing . 
But mayhap it is best to let the wool grow long ere you clip it . 
It is our pride , the prince answered coldly , that we rule over freemen and not slaves . 
Every man to his own humor , said Pedro carelessly . 
Carajo ! there is a sweet face at yonder window ! Don Fernando , I pray you to mark the house , and to have the maid brought to us at the abbey . 
Nay , brother , nay ! cried the prince impatiently . 
I have had occasion to tell you more than once that things are not ordered in this way in Aquitaine . 
A thousand pardons , dear friend , the Spaniard answered quickly , for a flush of anger had sprung to the dark cheek of the English prince . 
You make my exile so like a home that I forget at times that I am not in very truth back in Castile . 
Your talk , sire , said the prince still more coldly , is not such as I love to hear from your lips . 
I have no taste for such amours as you speak of , and I have sworn that my name shall be coupled with that of no woman save my ever dear wife . 
Have a care , cousin , he whispered for the sake of the Virgin have a care , for you have angered him . 
Pshaw ! fear not , the other answered in the same low tone . 
If I miss one stoop I will strike him on the next . 
Fair cousin , he continued , turning to the prince , these be rare men at arms and lusty bowmen . 
It would be hard indeed to match them . 
They have Journeyed far , sire , but they have never yet found their match . 
Nor ever will , I doubt not . 
I feel myself to be back upon my throne when I look at them . 
Noble and generous prince ! cried the little monarch . 
It would be shame to us if we did not do some great deed with such forces ready to our hand . 
You say truly , brother , cried the prince , his eyes kindling at the thought . 
Methinks that we could not do anything more pleasing to Our Lady than to drive the heathen Moors out of the country . 
I am with you , Edward , as true as hilt to blade . 
James ! we shall not let these Moors make mock at us from over the sea . 
We must take ship and thrust them from Africa . 
By heaven , yes ! cried the prince . 
And it is the dream of my heart that our English pennons shall wave upon the Mount of Olives , and the lions and lilies float over the holy city . 
And why not , dear coz ? Your bowmen have cleared a path to Paris , and why not to Jerusalem ? Once there , your arms might rest . 
Nay , there is more to be done , cried the prince , carried away by the ambitious dream . 
There is still the city of Constantine to be taken , and war to be waged against the Soldan of Damascus . 
And beyond him again there is tribute to be levied from the Cham of Tartary and from the kingdom of Cathay . 
By my soul ! as long as I am seneschal of Aquitaine I will find enough to do in guarding the marches which you have entrusted to me . 
It would be a blithe day for the King of France when he heard that the seas lay between him and us . 
By my soul ! John , said the prince , I have never known you turn laggard before . 
The babbling hound , sire , is not always the first at the mort , the old knight answered . 
Nay , my true heart ! I have tried you too often not to know . 
But , by my soul ! I have not seen so dense a throng since the day that we brought King John down Cheapside . 
It was indeed an enormous crowd which covered the whole vast plain from the line of vineyards to the river bank . 
A path had been staked off from the city gate to the stands which had been erected for the court and the nobility . 
Here rode dark browed cavaliers from the sunny south , fiery soldiers from Gascony , graceful courtiers of Limousin or Saintonge , and gallant young Englishmen from beyond the seas . 
The holders of the lists occupied the end which was nearest to the city gate . 
There , in front of their respective pavilions , flew the martlets of Audley , the roses of Loring , the scarlet bars of Wake . 
Faith , John , said the prince , it sounds as though you were right . 
Ha ! my grace D'Armagnac , it seems that our friends on this side will not grieve if our English champions lose the day . 
It may be so , sire , the Gascon nobleman answered . 
I have little doubt that in Smithfield or at Windsor an English crowd would favor their own countrymen . 
I fear that they will have little to shout over this journey , for my gold vase has small prospect of crossing the water . 
He who carries himself best of the victors hath the prize , and he who is judged best of the other party hath a jewelled clasp . 
Sir William Beauchamp went down before the practiced lance of the Captal de Buch . 
Sir Thomas Percy won the vantage over the Lord of Mucident , and the Lord Audley struck Sir Perducas d'Albert from the saddle . 
The burly De Clisson , however , restored the hopes of the attackers by beating to the ground Sir Thomas Wake of Yorkshire . 
So far , there was little to choose betwixt challengers and challenged . 
By Saint James of Santiago ! cried Don Pedro , with a tinge of color upon his pale cheeks , win who will , this has been a most notable contest . 
Who comes next for England , John ? asked the prince in a voice which quivered with excitement . 
Sir Nigel Loring of Hampshire , sire . 
Ha ! he is a man of good courage , and skilled in the use of all weapons . 
He is indeed , sire . 
But his eyes , like my own , are the worse for wars . 
Yet he can tilt or play his part at hand strokes as merrily as ever . 
I have heard that at Twynham Castle there is a buffet which groans beneath the weight of his prizes . 
I pray that my vase may join them , said the prince . 
But here is the cavalier of Germany , and by my soul ! he looks like a man of great valor and hardiness . 
Let them run their full three courses , for the issue is over great to hang upon one . 
As the prince spoke , amid a loud flourish of trumpets and the shouting of the Gascon party , the last of the assailants rode gallantly into the lists . 
No plume or nobloy fluttered from his plain tilting salade , and even his lance was devoid of the customary banderole . 
A white mantle fluttered behind him , upon the left side of which was marked the broad black cross picked out with silver which was the well known badge of the Teutonic Order . 
Gravely and sternly he inclined his head to the prince , and took his place ar the further end of the arena . 
A great hush fell over the huge multitude as the two last champions faced each other . 
A double issue seemed to rest upon their contest , for their personal fame was at stake as well as their party's honor . 
Both were famous warriors , but as their exploits had been performed in widely sundered countries , they had never before been able to cross lances . 
For a moment they waited the German sombre and collected , Sir Nigel quivering in every fibre with eagerness and fiery resolution . 
A thousand waving scarves and tossing caps announced that the first bout had fallen to the popular party . 
The Hampshire knight was not a man to be disheartened by a reverse . 
He spurred back to the pavilion , and was out in a few instants with another helmet . 
The second course was so equal that the keenest judges could not discern any vantage . 
Each struck fire from the other's shield , and each endured the jarring shock as though welded to the horse beneath him . 
A roar of applause from the English soldiers , with an ominous silence from the vast crowd who pressed round the barriers , announced that the balance of victory lay with the holders . 
HOW A CHAMPION CAME FORTH FROM THE EAST . 
THE Bordeaux lists were , as has already been explained , situated upon the plain near the river upon those great occasions when the tilting ground in front of the Abbey of St . 
Andrew's was deemed to be too small to contain the crowd . 
On the eastern side of this plain the country side sloped upwards , thick with vines in summer , but now ridged with the brown bare enclosures . 
Another half hour had brought them so close that every point of their bearing and equipment could be discerned . 
The first was a knight in full armor , mounted upon a brown horse with a white blaze upon breast and forehead . 
He was a short man of great breadth of shoulder , with vizor closed , and no blazonry upon his simple white surcoat or plain black shield . 
In his left hand the squire held not only the reins of his own horse but those of a great black war horse , fully harnessed , which trotted along at his side . 
A Frenchman ! repeated Don Pedro . 
Italian he might be were his bassinet more sloped , but I will swear that those plates were welded betwixt this and Rhine . 
Here comes his squire , however , and we shall hear what strange fortune hath brought him over the marches . 
As he spoke the attendant cantered up the grassy enclosure , and pulling up his steed in front of the royal stand , blew a second fanfare upon his bugle . 
He was a raw boned , swarthy cheeked man , with black bristling beard and a swaggering bearing . 
Sir ! cried De Clisson , with a voice of thunder , while his countrymen clapped their hands to their swords . 
The squire , however , took no notice of their angry faces , but continued with his master's message . 
Bear word of this to your master , said the prince , and ask him which of these five Englishmen he would desire to meet . 
But stay your master bears no coat armor , and we have not yet heard his name . 
My master , sire , is under vow to the Virgin neither to reveal his name nor to open his vizor until he is back upon French ground once more . 
There is no man upon earth who would demean himself by breaking a lance with my master . 
You refuse , sire ? I do refuse . 
I ask no better , said the prince . 
Then I must ask , Lord Chandos , that you will step forth . 
I have your pledge that the name shall remain ever a secret , and that you will neither say nor write one word which might betray it . 
Is this indeed sooth ? he exclaimed . 
It is , my lord , and I swear it by St . 
I might have known it , said Chandos , twisting his mousetache , and still looking thoughtfully at the cavalier . 
What then , Sir John ? asked the prince . 
Nay , nay , Sir John , you have gained as much honor as one man can bear , and it were hard if you could not rest now . 
My master will not drink , said the squire . 
Let him then name the gentleman with whom he would break a spear . 
He would contend with these five knights , each to choose such weapons as suit him best . 
I perceive , said the prince , that your master is a man of great heart and high of enterprise . 
But the sun already is low in the west , and there will scarce be light for these courses . 
I pray you , gentlemen , to take your places , that we may see whether this stranger's deeds are as bold as his words . 
The unknown knight had sat like a statue of steel , looking neither to the right nor to the left during these preliminaries . 
He had changed from the horse upon which he had ridden , and bestrode the black charger which his squire had led beside him . 
He stared now at the stranger with a wrinkled brow and the air of a man who is striving to stir his memory . 
By my hilt ! I have seen the thick body of him before to day . 
Yet I cannot call to mind where it could have been . 
It is but child's play , this poking game , said John . 
I would fain try my hand at it , for , by the black rood ! I think that it might be amended . 
What then would you do , John ? asked several . 
There are many things which might be done , said the forester thoughtfully . 
Methinks that I would begin by breaking my spear . 
So they all strive to do . 
Nay , but not upon another man's shield . 
I would break it over my own knee . 
And what the better for that , old beef and bones ? asked Black Simon . 
So I would turn what is but a lady's bodkin of a weapon into a very handsome club . 
By my ten finger bones ! old John , said Aylward , I would give my feather bed to see you at a spear running . 
This is a most courtly and gentle sport which you have devised . 
So it seems to me , said John seriously . 
Or , again , one might seize the other round the middle , pluck him off his horse and bear him to the pavilion , there to hold him to ransom . 
Good ! cried Simon , amid a roar of laughter from all the archers round . 
By Thomas of Kent I we shall make a camp marshal of thee , and thou shalt draw up rules for our jousting . 
I know not about that , said the big archer , scratching his head in perplexity . 
Since Mary hath played me false , I can scarce fight for her . 
Yet any woman will serve . 
There is my mother then , said John . 
But who is here ? It is Sir William Beauchamp . 
He is a valiant man , but I fear that he is scarce firm enough upon the saddle to bear the thrust of such a tilter as this stranger promises to be . 
Aylward's words were speedily justified , for even as he spoke the two knights met in the centre of the lists . 
Sir Thomas Percy met with little better success , for his shield was split , his vambrace torn and he himself wounded slightly in the side . 
Sir Thomas Wake was beaten to the ground with a battle axe that being the weapon which he had selected and had to be carried to his pavilion . 
These rapid successes , gained one after the other over four celebrated warriors , worked the crowd up to a pitch of wonder and admiration . 
By my soul ! John , cried the prince , with his cheek flushed and his eyes shining , this is a man of good courage and great hardiness . 
I could not have thought that there was any single arm upon earth which could have overthrown these four champions . 
He is indeed , as I have said , sire , a knight from whom much honor is to be gained . 
But the lower edge of the sun is wet , and it will be beneath the sea ere long . 
Here is Sir Nigel Loring , on foot and with his sword , said the prince . 
I have heard that he is a fine swordsman . 
The finest in your army , sire , Chandos answered . 
Yet I doubt not that he will need all his skill this day . 
As he spoke , the two combatants advanced from either end in full armor with their two handed swords sloping over their shoulders . 
The stranger walked heavily and with a measured stride , while the English knight advanced as briskly as though there was no iron shell to weigh down the freedom of his limbs . 
Suddenly , however , his time came . 
The Frenchman , whirling up his sword , showed for an instant a chink betwixt his shoulder piece and the rerebrace which guarded his upper arm . 
What think you , Pedro ? I think , Edward , that the little man was very well able to take care of himself . 
For my part , I should wish to see so well matched a pair fight on while a drop of blood remained in their veins . 
We must have speech with him . 
Such a man must not go from my court without rest or sup . 
As he spoke , the knight errant , who had remounted his warhorse , galloped forward to the royal stand , with a silken kerchief bound round his wounded arm . 
The setting sun cast a ruddy glare upon his burnished arms , and sent his long black shadow streaming behind him up the level clearing . 
Sir knight , said the prince , we have all marvelled this day at this great skill and valor with which God has been pleased to endow you . 
I would fain that you should tarry at our court , for a time at least , until your hurt is healed and your horses rested . 
My hurt is nothing , sire , nor are my horses weary , returned the stranger in a deep , stern voice . 
These are bitter words , sir knight , said Prince Edward , with an angry frown . 
And they come from a bitter heart , answered the unknown knight . 
Had the man who sits upon your right been ruler of this land , I had indeed thought twice before I looked to him for aught that was knightly or generous . 
The insolent villain ! cried Pedro , glaring furiously after him . 
I have seen a man's tongue torn from his jaws for less . 
Sir William Felton , you are well mounted , gallop after the caitiff , I pray you . 
George ! he has served his master this day even as I would wish liegeman of mine to serve me . 
So saying , the prince turned his back upon the King of Spain , and springing upon his horse , rode slowly homewards to the Abbey of Saint Andrew's . 
HOW SIR NIGEL WROTE TO TWYNHAM CASTLE . 
A sheet of vellum lay upon the board in front of him , and he held a pen in his hand , with which he had been scribbling in a rude schoolboy hand . 
By Saint Paul ! he cried , as Alleyne entered , you are the man who will stand by me in this matter . 
I have been in sore need of you , Alleyne . 
God be with you , my fair lord ! the squire answered . 
I trust that you have taken no hurt from all that you have gone through yesterday . 
Nay I feel the fresher for it , Alleyne . 
It has eased my joints , which were somewhat stiff from these years of peace . 
This was a man from whom much honor might be gained , and I have seldom met any one for whom I have conceived so much love and esteem . 
Could I but learn his name , I should send you to him with my cartel , that we might have further occasion to watch his goodly feats of arms . 
It is said , my fair lord , that none know his name save only the Lord Chandos , and that he is under vow not to speak it . 
So ran the gossip at the squires' table . 
Be he who he might , he was a very hardy gentleman . 
But I have a task here , Alleyne , which is harder to me than aught that was set before me yesterday . 
Can I help you , my lord ? That indeed you can . 
I pray you , Alleyne , to cast your eyes upon what I have written , and see it they are such words as my lady will understand . 
My fingers , as you can see , are more used to iron and leather than to the drawing of strokes and turning of letters . 
What then ? Is there aught amiss , that you should stare so ? It is this first word , my lord . 
In what tongue were you pleased to write ? In English for my lady talks it more than she doth French . 
Yet this is no English word , my sweet lord . 
Here are four t's and never a letter betwixt them . 
Paul ! it seemed strange to my eye when I wrote it , said Sir Nigel . 
They bristle up together like a clump of lances . 
We must break their ranks and set them farther apart . 
That my heart is with thee , my dear sweeting , is what thine own heart will assure thee of . 
How of that , Alleyne ? continued Sir Nigel , blinking at his squire , with an expression of some pride upon his face . 
Were it in shorter periods Nay , it boots me not how you marshal them , as long as they are all there at the muster . 
Let my lady have the words , and she will place them in such order as pleases her best . 
But I would have you add what it would please her to know . 
That will I , said Alleyne , blithely , and bent to the task . 
My fair lady and mistress , he wrote , God hath had us in His keeping , and my lord is well and in good cheer . 
He hath won much honor at the jousting before the prince , when he alone was able to make it good against a very valiant man from France . 
Touching the moneys , there is enough and to spare until we reach Montaubon . 
Herewith , my fair lady , I send my humble regards , entreating you that you will give the same to your daughter , the Lady Maude . 
May the holy saints have you both in their keeping is ever the prayer of thy servant , ALLEYNE EDRICSON . 
That is very fairly set forth , said Sir Nigel , nodding his bald head as each sentence was read to him . 
And for thyself , Alleyne , if there be any dear friend to whom you would fain give greeting , I can send it for thee within this packet . 
There is none , said Alleyne , sadly . 
Have you no kinsfolk , then ? None , save my brother . 
Ha ! I had forgotten that there was ill blood betwixt you . 
But are there none in all England who love thee ? None that I dare say so . 
And none whom you love ? Nay , I will not say that , said Alleyne . 
Sir Nigel shook his head and laughed softly to himself , I see how it is with you , he said . 
And good ? As an angel . 
And yet she loves you not ? Nay , I cannot say that she loves another . 
Then you have hopes ? I could not live else . 
Then must you strive to be worthy of her love . 
By thinking so you become worthy . 
Is she then of noble birth ? She is , my lord , faltered Alleyne . 
Of a knightly house ? Yes . 
Have a care , Alleyne , have a care ! said Sir Nigel , kindly . 
The higher the steed the greater the fall . 
Hawk not at that which may be beyond thy flight . 
My lord , I know little of the ways and usages of the world , cried Alleyne , but I would fain ask your rede upon the matter . 
You have known my father and my kin is not my family one of good standing and repute ? Beyond all question . 
And yet you warn me that I must not place my love too high . 
Were Minstead yours , Alleyne , then , by St . 
Paul ! I cannot think that any family in the land would not be proud to take you among them , seeing that you come of so old a strain . 
But while the Socman lives Ha , by my soul ! if this is not Sir Oliver's step I am the more mistaken . 
As he spoke , a heavy footfall was heard without , and the portly knight flung open the door and strode into the room . 
James ! a blind man might find the place , for one has but to get in the wind from it , and follow the savory smell . 
Put on your cloak , then , and come , for Sir Walter Hewett and Sir Robert Briquet , with one or two others , are awaiting us . 
Nay , Oliver , I cannot be with you , for I must to Montaubon this day . 
To Montaubon ? But I have heard that your Company is to come with my forty Winchester rascals to Dax . 
If you will take charge of them , Oliver . 
For I will go to Montaubon with none save my two squires and two archers . 
Then , when I have found the rest of my Company I shall lead them to Dax . 
We set forth this morning . 
Then I must back to my pasty , said Sir Oliver . 
You will find us at Dax , I doubt not , unless the prince throw me into prison , for he is very wroth against me . 
And why , Oliver ? Pardieu ! because I have sent my cartel , gauntlet , and defiance to Sir John Chandos and to Sir William Felton . 
To Chandos ? In God's name , Oliver , why have you done this ? Because he and the other have used me despitefully . 
And how ? Because they have passed me over in choosing those who should joust for England . 
Oliver ! Oliver ! You are mad ! Not I , i' faith ! I care not a denier whether he be prince or no . 
By Saint James ! I see that your squire's eyes are starting from his head like a trussed crab . 
Well , friend , we are all three men of Hampshire , and not lightly to be jeered at . 
Has he jeered at you than ? Pardieu ! yes , 'Old Sir Oliver's heart is still stout , said one of his court . 
'Else had it been out of keeping with the rest of him , quoth the prince . 
'And his arm is strong , said another . 
'So is the backbone of his horse , quoth the prince . 
This very day I will send him my cartel and defiance . 
Nay , nay , my dear Oliver , said Sir Nigel , laying his hand upon his angry friend's arm . 
There is naught in this , for it was but saying that you were a strong and robust man , who had need of a good destrier . 
Yet you could ever win me over to your side with that soft voice of yours . 
Let us think no more of it then . 
For one hour , then for we march at mid day . 
Tell Aylward , Alleyne , that he is to come with me to Montaubon , and to choose one archer for his comrade . 
The rest will to Dax when the prince starts , which will be before the feast of the Epiphany . 
Have Pommers ready at mid day with my sycamore lance , and place my harness on the sumpter mule . 
With these brief directions , the two old soldiers strode off together , while Alleyne hastened to get all in order for their journey . 
Sir Nigel and Ford had ridden on in advance , the knight upon his hackney , while his great war horse trotted beside his squire . 
Two hours later Alleyne Edricson followed for he had the tavern reckoning to settle , and many other duties which fell to him as squire of the body . 
Alleyne smiled as he wondered what fantastic and wondrous deed would be exacted from him . 
Sir Nigel had said that his birth was high enough for any lady , if his fortune could but be amended . 
Often had Alleyne curled his lip at the beggarly craving for land or for gold which blinded man to the higher and more lasting issues of life . 
Now it seemed as though it were only by this same land and gold that he might hope to reach his heart's desire . 
But then , again , the Socman of Minstead was no friend to the Constable of Twynham Castle . 
It might happen that , should he amass riches by some happy fortune of war , this feud might hold the two families aloof . 
Even if Maude loved him , he knew her too well to think that she would wed him without the blessing of her father . 
If Alleyne Edricson had enough to ponder over as he rode through the bare plains of Guienne , his two companions were more busy with the present and less thoughtful of the future . 
What was it then ? asked Alleyne , coming with a start out of his reverie . 
Why , it is the hedgerows , roared John , with a shout of laughter . 
The country is all scraped as clear as a friar's poll . 
But indeed I cannot think much of the folk in these parts . 
Thou foolish old John ! quoth Aylward . 
You should know better , since I have heard that the monks of Beaulieu could squeeze a good cup of wine from their own grapes . 
I had feared that in gaining our debonair young man at arms we had lost our soft spoken clerk . 
In truth , I have noted much change in you since we came from Twynham Castle . 
Surely it would be strange else , seeing that I have lived in a world so new to me . 
Yet I trust that there are many things in which I have not changed . 
You , John , are also from the cloisters , but I trow that you do not feel that you have deserted the old service in taking on the new . 
I am a slow witted man , said John , and , in sooth , when l try to think about such matters it casts a gloom upon me . 
Yet I do not look upon myself as a worse man in an archer's jerkin than I was in a white cowl , if that be what you mean . 
You have but changed from one white company to the other , quoth Aylward . 
But I have never yet heard , John , what the reason was why you should come out of Beaulieu . 
There were seven reasons , said John thoughtfully . 
The first of them was that they threw me out . 
Ma foi ! camarade , to the devil with the other six ! That is enough for me and for thee also . 
I can see that they are very wise and discreet folk at Beaulieu . 
Ma foi ! but she has a bonne mine . 
I have a mind to bide and speak with her . 
Nay , nay , Aylward , cried Alleyne . 
Sir Nigel will await us , and he in haste . 
True , true , camarade ! Adieu , ma cherie ! mon coeur est toujours a toi . 
Her mother is a well grown woman also . 
See where she digs by the wayside . 
Ma foi ! the riper fruit is ever the sweeter . 
Bon jour , ma belle dame ! God have you in his keeping ! Said Sir Nigel where he would await us ? At Marmande or Aiguillon . 
He said that we could not pass him , seeing that there is but the one road . 
Aye , and it is a road that I know as I know the Midhurst parish butts , quoth the bowman . 
Thirty times have I journeyed it , forward and backward , and , by the twang of string ! I am wont to come back this way more laden than I went . 
I have carried all that I had into France in a wallet , and it hath taken four sumpter mules to carry it back again . 
Let us on , for a stoup of wine would hearten us upon our way . 
To their right stretched the blue Garonne , running swiftly seawards , with boats and barges dotted over its broad bosom . 
Behind them might still be seen the broad estuary of the Gironde , with the high towers of Saint Andre and Saint Remi shooting up from the plain . 
In front , amid radiating lines of poplars , lay the riverside townlet of Cardillac gray walls , white houses , and a feather of blue smoke . 
This is the 'Mouton d'Or , said Aylward , as they pulled up their horses at a whitewashed straggling hostel . 
What ho there ! he continued , beating upon the door with the hilt of his sword . 
I pray you , Alleyne , to take note of this door , for I have a tale concerning it . 
But I marvel how you should know how he speaks when he is in wrath , for he is very gentle minded with those who are beneath him . 
Praise to the saints ! it was not I who angered him , said the fat Michel . 
Pardieu ! I have never seen a man get off his horse as quick as did that stranger Englishman . 
Ere the words were past the other's lips he was beside him , his face nigh touching , and his breath hot upon his cheeks . 
'Perchance not , said the Sieur de Crespigny with a twitching lip . 
'Nor is it large , but very small , quoth the Englishman . 
'Less large than I had thought , said the other , looking down , for the knight's gaze was heavy upon his eyelids . 
'And in every way such a glove as might be worn by the fairest and sweetest lady in England , quoth the Englishman . 
'It may be so , said the Sieur de Crespigny , turning his face from him . 
Ha ! by the five wounds , many men of war have drunk my wine , but never one was more to my fancy than this little Englishman . 
By my hilt ! he is our master , Michel , quoth Aylward , and such men as we do not serve under a laggart . 
But here are four deniers , Michel , and God be with you ! En avant , camarades ! for we have a long road before us . 
At a brisk trot the three friends left Cardillac and its wine house behind them , riding without a halt past St . 
Macaire , and on by ferry over the river Dorpt . 
There is the smoke from Bazas , on the further side of Garonne , quoth he . 
There was Marie , tall and grave , and Blanche petite and gay , and the dark Agnes , with eyes that went through you like a waxed arrow . 
Yet , for all my care , things were not merry in the house , and I thought it well to come away . 
There , too , is the mill of Le Souris . 
Old Pierre Le Caron , who owned it , was a right good comrade , and had ever a seat and a crust for a weary archer . 
Tell me , Aylward , said Alleyne , what was amiss with the door of yonder inn that you should ask me to observe it . 
Pardieu ! yes , I had well nigh forgot . 
What saw you on yonder door ? I saw a square hole , through which doubtless the host may peep when he is not too sure of those who knock . 
And saw you naught else ? I marked that beneath this hole there was a deep cut in the door , as though a great nail had been driven in . 
And naught else ? No. Had you looked more closely you might have seen that there was a stain upon the wood . 
The first time that I ever heard my comrade Black Simon laugh was in front of that door . 
I heard him once again when he slew a French squire with his teeth , he being unarmed and the Frenchman having a dagger . 
And why did Simon laugh in front of the inn door ! asked John . 
This inn , the 'Mouton d'Or , was kept in the old days by one Francois Gourval , who had a hard fist and a harder heart . 
'Well , Master Gourval , quoth Simon at last , 'this is but a sorry welcome , seeing that we have ridden so far just to shake you by the hand . 
'Canst shake me by the hand without coming in , said Gourval . 
'And how that ? asked Simon . 
'By passing in your hand through the hole , said he . 
'Nay , my hand is wounded , quoth Simon , 'and of such a size that I cannot pass it in . 
'That need not hinder , said Gourval , who was hot to be rid of us , 'pass in your left hand . 
'But I have something for thee , Gourval , said Simon . 
'What then ? he asked . 
'There was an English archer who slept here last week of the name of Hugh of Nutbourne . 
'We have had many rogues here , said Gourval . 
'His conscience hath been heavy within him because he owes you a debt of fourteen deniers , having drunk wine for which he hath never paid . 
For the easing of his soul , he asked me to pay the money to you as I passed . 
Such is the story of the hole which you have marked , and of the smudge upon the wood . 
I have heard that from that time English archers have been better treated in the auberge of Cardillac . 
But what have we here by the wayside ? It appears to be a very holy man , said Alleyne . 
And , by the rood ! he hath some strange wares , cried John . 
He was dressed in a long gray gown , and wore a broad hat of the same color , much weather stained , with three scallop shells dangling from the brim . 
As they approached , the travellers observed that he was advanced in years , and that his eyes were upturned and yellow . 
Kind stranger , answered the pilgrim , you have unwittingly spoken words which are very grievous to me to listen to . 
There , Aylward , said Alleyne , with a reddened cheek , let that curb your blunt tongue . 
I forgive thee from my heart , dear brother , piped the blind man . 
But , oh , these wild words of thine are worse to mine ears than aught which you could say of me . 
Not another word shall I speak , said Aylward but here is a franc for thee and I crave thy blessing . 
And here is another , said Alleyne . 
And another , cried Hordle John . 
But the blind palmer would have none of their alms . 
Foolish , foolish pride ! he cried , beating upon his chest with his large brown hand . 
It were sin , thought I , that my secret should perish with me . 
What are these treasures , then , father ? asked Hordle John . 
I can but see an old rusty nail , with bits of stone and slips of wood . 
My friend , answered the palmer , not all the money that is in this country could pay a just price for these wares of mine . 
This nail , he continued , pulling off his hat and turning up his sightless orbs , is one of those wherewith man's salvation was secured . 
Aye , you may well cross yourselves , and I beg that you will not breathe upon it or touch it with your fingers . 
And the wood and stone , holy father ? asked Alleyne , with bated breath , as he stared awe struck at his precious relics . 
This cantle of wood is from the true cross , this other from Noah his ark , and the third is from the door post of the temple of the wise King Solomon . 
This stone was thrown at the sainted Stephen , and the other two are from the Tower of Babel . 
Here , too , is part of Aaron's rod , and a lock of hair from Elisha the prophet . 
But , father , quoth Alleyne , the holy Elisha was bald , which brought down upon him the revilements of the wicked children . 
It is very true that he had not much hair , said the palmer quickly , and it is this which makes this relic so exceeding precious . 
Aylward , said Alleyne excitedly , This is such a chance as few folk have twice in one life . 
The nail I must have , and I will give it to the abbey of Beaulieu , so that all the folk in England may go thither to wonder and to pray . 
And I will have the stone from the temple , cried Hordle John . 
What would not my old mother give to have it hung over her bed ? And I will have Aaron's rod , quoth Aylward . 
I have but five florins in the world , and here are four of them . 
Here are three more , said John . 
And here are five more , added Alleyne . 
Down , pride , down ! cried the pilgrim , still beating upon his chest . 
Can I not bend myself then to take this sorry sum which is offered me for that which has cost me the labors of a life . 
With doffed caps and eager hands , the comrades took their new and precious possessions , and pressed onwards upon their journey , leaving the aged palmer still seated under the cherry tree . 
Why , masters , quoth he , this man is a coquillart , or seller of false relics , and was here in the smithy not two hours ago . 
Then he begged from me one of my nails , and filling his scrip with stones , he went upon his way . 
Look at these nails , and see if they are not the same as that which he has sold you . 
Now may God save us ! cried Alleyne , all aghast . 
Is there no end then to the wickedness of humankind ? He so humble , so aged , so loth to take our money and yet a villain and a cheat . 
Whom can we trust or believe in ? I will after him , said Aylward , flinging himself into the saddle . 
Come , Alleyne , we may catch him ere John's horse be shod . 
Away they galloped together , and ere long they saw the old gray palmer walking slowly along in front of them . 
They hurled their relics after him , and so rode back to the blacksmith's the poorer both in pocket and in faith . 
HOW RODGER CLUB FOOT WAS PASSED INTO PARADISE . 
He and Sir Nigel sat late in high converse as to bushments , outfalls , and the intaking of cities , with many tales of warlike men and valiant deeds . 
Yet , with scarce an hour of rest , Sir Nigel was as blithe and bright as ever as they set forth after breakfast upon their way . 
This Sir Gaston is a very worthy man , said he to his squires as they rode from the Baton Rouge . 
I have conceived a great love for him , and I have promised him that when his bone is mended I will exchange thrusts with him . 
But we must keep to this road upon the left . 
Nay , my fair lord , quoth Aylward . 
The road to Montaubon is over the river , and so through Quercy and the Agenois . 
I have little doubt , from what he says , that they are those whom we seek . 
By my hilt ! it is like enough , said Aylward . 
By all accounts they had been so long at Montaubon , that there would be little there worth the taking . 
Then as they have already been in the south , they would come north to the country of the Aveyron . 
We shall follow the Lot until we come to Cahors , and then cross the marches into Villefranche , said Sir Nigel . 
All morning they rode down a broad and winding road , barred with the shadows of poplars . 
Sir Nigel rode in front with his squires , while the two archers followed behind with the sumpter mule between them . 
They had left Aiguillon and the Garonne far to the south , and rode now by the tranquil Lot , which curves blue and placid through a gently rolling country . 
Alleyne could not but mark that , whereas in Guienne there had been many townlets and few castles , there were now many castles and few houses . 
The peace of Bretigny hath not made much change in these parts , quoth Sir Nigel , for the country is overrun with free companions and masterless men . 
Yonder towers , between the wood and the hill , mark the town of Cahors , and beyond it is the land of France . 
But here is a man by the wayside , and as he hath two horses and a squire I make little doubt that he is a knight . 
I pray you , Alleyne , to give him greeting from me , and to ask him for his titles and coat armor . 
It may be that I can relieve him of some vow , or perchance he hath a lady whom he would wish to advance . 
Nay , my fair lord , said Alleyne , these are not horses and a squire , but mules and a varlet . 
The man is a mercer , for he hath a great bundle beside him . 
Now , God's blessing on your honest English voice ! cried the stranger , pricking up his ears at the sound of Alleyne's words . 
Never have I heard music that was so sweet to mine ear . 
It was easy to see , as he approached , from the quality of his dress and the richness of his trappings , that he was a man of some wealth and position . 
By Saint Paul ! answered Sir Nigel , I should be a sorry knight if I ask pay for standing by a countryman in a strange land . 
You may ride with me and welcome , Master Micheldene , and your varlet may follow with my archers . 
God's benison upon thy bounty ! cried the stranger . 
Should you come to Norwich you may have cause to remember that you have been of service to Alderman Micheldene . 
Your words are strange to me , quoth Sir Nigel , for you have the appearance of a stout man , and I see that you wear a sword by your side . 
Yet it is not my trade , answered the merchant . 
There you might well turn to me for help . 
But here on a lone roadside , with thick woods and robber knights , I turn to you , for it is the business to which you have been reared . 
He is a bloody robber , said the trader , curtly , and I wish I saw him kicking at the end of a halter . 
It is such men as he , Sir Nigel remarked , who give the true knight honorable deeds to do , whereby he may advance himself . 
Yet , if the dangers of the road weigh so heavily upon you , master alderman , it is a great marvel to me that you should venture so far from home . 
And sometimes , sir knight , it is a marvel to myself . 
Stoutly spoken , master alderman ! But how have you fared hitherto ? As a lamb fares in a land of wolves . 
Five times we have had to beg and pray ere we could pass . 
Twice I have paid toll to the wardens of the road . 
By God's coif ! we are men of peace , but we are free English burghers , not to be mishandled either in our country or abroad . 
Neither lord , baron , knight , or commoner shall have as much as a strike of flax of mine whilst I have strength to wag this sword . 
And a passing strange sword it is , quoth Sir Nigel . 
What make you , Alleyne , of these black lines which are drawn across the sheath ? I cannot tell what they are , my fair lord . 
Nor can I , said Ford . 
The merchant chuckled to himself . 
It was a thought of mine own , said he for the sword was made by Thomas Wilson , the armorer , who is betrothed to my second daughter Margery . 
Know then that the sheath is one cloth yard , in length , marked off according to feet and inches to serve me as a measuring wand . 
It is also of the exact weight of two pounds , so that I may use it in the balance . 
By Saint Paul ! quoth Sir Nigel , it is very clear to me that the sword is like thyself , good alderman , apt either for war or for peace . 
But I doubt not that even in England you have had much to suffer from the hands of robbers and outlaws . 
It was only last Lammastide , sir knight , that I was left for dead near Reading as I journeyed to Winchester fair . 
Yet I had the rogues up at the court of pie powder , and they will harm no more peaceful traders . 
You travel much then ! To Winchester , Linn mart , Bristol fair , Stourbridge , and Bartholomew's in London Town . 
From the centre of this branch there hung a man , with his head at a horrid slant to his body and his toes just touching the ground . 
He was naked save for a linen under shirt and pair of woollen drawers . 
He was very richly dressed , with furred robes , a scarlet hood , and wide hanging sleeves lined with flame colored silk . 
A great gold chain hung round his neck , and rings glittered from every finger of his hands . 
On his lap he had a little pile of gold and of silver , which he was dropping , coin by coin , into a plump pouch which hung from his girdle . 
May the saints be with you , good travellers ! he shouted , as the party rode up . 
But I perceive , master alderman , that this man who hangs here is , by mark of foot , the very robber knight of whom we have spoken . 
But there is a cartel pinned upon his breast , and I pray you , Alleyne , to read it to me . 
Par l'ordre du Senechal de Castelnau , et de l'Echevin de Cahors , servantes fideles du tres vaillant et tres puissant Edouard , Prince de Galles et d'Aquitaine . 
Ne touchez pas , Ne coutez pas , Ne depechez pas . 
He took a sorry time in dying , said the man who sat beside him . 
He could stretch one toe to the ground and bear him self up , so that I thought he would never have done . 
Now at last , however , he is safely in paradise , and so I may jog on upon my earthly way . 
How know you then that he is in paradise ? asked Sir Nigel . 
It is my holy mission to be a sompnour or pardoner . 
I am the unworthy servant and delegate of him who holds the keys . 
I came up even as the seneschal's archers were tying him up , and I gave him my fore word that I would bide with him until he had passed . 
There were two leaden crowns among the silver , but I would not for that stand in the way of his salvation . 
By Saint Paul ! said Sir Nigel , if you have indeed this power to open and to shut the gates of hope , then indeed you stand high above mankind . 
Small of faith ! Small of faith ! cried the sompnour . 
Which of them ? asked Sir Nigel . 
Ha , ha ! cried the pardoner , shaking a jewelled forefinger . 
Thou wouldst be deep in the secrets of mother Church ? Know then that I have both in my scrip . 
I pray you that you will buy one , for war is bloody work , and the end is sudden with little time for thought or shrift . 
Or you , sir , for you seem to me to be a man who would do ill to trust to your own merits . 
This to the alderman of Norwich , who had listened to him with a frowning brow and a sneering lip . 
When I sell my cloth , quoth he , he who buys may weigh and feel and handle . 
These goods which you sell are not to be seen , nor is there any proof that you hold them . 
Thou wicked and shameless man ! cried the clerk . 
Dost thou dare to raise thy voice against the unworthy servant of mother Church ? Unworthy enough ! quoth David Micheldene . 
You prate of holy things , to which your hog's mind can never rise . 
Keep silence , lest I call a curse upon you ! Silence yourself ! roared the other . 
Foul bird ! we found thee by the gallows like a carrion crow . 
A fine life thou hast of it with thy silks and thy baubles , cozening the last few shillings from the pouches of dying men . 
Thou vile thief ! it is you , and such as you , who bring an evil name upon the many churchmen who lead a pure and a holy life . 
Thou outside the door of heaven ! Art more like to be inside the door of hell . 
At this crowning insult the sompnour , with a face ashen with rage , raised up a quivering hand and began pouring Latin imprecations upon the angry alderman . 
The latter , however , was not a man to be quelled by words , for he caught up his ell measure sword sheath and belabored the cursing clerk with it . 
The latter , unable to escape from the shower of blows , set spurs to his mule and rode for his life , with his enemy thundering behind him . 
Sir Nigel and Alleyne gazed in astonishment at one another , while Ford burst out a laughing . 
Pardieu ! said the knight , this David Micheldene must be one of those Lollards about whom Father Christopher of the priory had so much to say . 
Yet he seemed to be no bad man from what I have seen of him . 
I have heard that Wicliff hath many followers in Norwich , answered Alleyne . 
Paul ! I have no great love for them , quoth Sir Nigel . 
It is but a chip here and a chip there , yet it may bring the tree down in time . 
Yet , on the other hand , I cannot but think it shame that a man should turn God's mercy on and off , as a cellarman doth wine with a spigot . 
Nor is it , said Alleyne , part of the teachings of that mother Church of which he had so much to say . 
There was sooth in what the alderman said of it . 
Paul ! they may settle it betwixt them , quoth Sir Nigel . 
For me , I serve God , the king and my lady and so long as I can keep the path of honor I am well content . 
My creed shall ever be that of Chandos 'Fais ce que dois adviegne que peut , C'est commande au chevalier . 
This path led them amid marshes and woods , until it brought them out into a glade with a broad stream swirling swiftly down the centre of it . 
Through this the horses splashed their way , and on the farther shore Sir Nigel announced to them that they were now within the borders of the land of France . 
Broken fences , crumbling walls , vineyards littered with stones , the shattered arches of bridges look where you might , the signs of ruin and rapine met the eye . 
Moodily and in silence the little party rode along the narrow and irregular track , their hearts weighed down by this far stretching land of despair . 
Here and there amid the brushwood the travellers saw the rude bundle of sticks which served them as a home more like a fowl's nest than the dwelling place of man . 
The weak man becomes strong when he has nothing , for then only can he feel the wild , mad thrill of despair . 
Frenchmen and Englishmen , Gascon and Provencal , Brabanter , Tardvenu , Scorcher , Flayer , and Free Companion , wandered and struggled over the whole of this accursed district . 
Paul ! said he , I am right glad for I had feared that we might have neither provant nor herbergage . 
Ride on , Alleyne , and tell this inn keeper that an English knight with his party will lodge with him this night . 
Alleyne set spurs to his horse and reached the inn door a long bow shot before his companions . 
Neither varlet nor ostler could be seen , so he pushed open the door and called loudly for the landlord . 
Three times he shouted , but , receiving no reply , he opened an inner door and advanced into the chief guest room of the hostel . 
A very cheerful wood fire was sputtering and cracking in an open grate at the further end of the apartment . 
At one side of this fire , in a high backed oak chair , sat a lady , her face turned towards the door . 
The firelight played over her features , and Alleyne thought that he had never seen such queenly power , such dignity and strength , upon a woman's face . 
These he cracked between his strong white teeth and chewed in a leisurely way , casting the shells into the blaze . 
As Alleyne gazed in at him he turned his face half round and cocked an eye at him over his shoulder . 
The voice , too , when he spoke , was as deep and as fierce as the growl of a beast of prey . 
With an ashen face the white aproned host came running at his call , his hands shaking and his very hair bristling with apprehension . 
Alleyne was about to explain , when a fresh roar from the stranger interrupted him . 
Thou villain inn keeper , he shouted , did I not ask you when I brought my lady here whether your inn was clean ? You did , sire . 
Did I not very particularly ask you whether there were any vermin in it ? You did , sire . 
And you answered me ? That there were not , sire . 
And yet ere I have been here an hour I find Englishmen crawling about within it . 
Indeed , gentlemen , you had best go , said mine host . 
It is but six miles to Villefranche , where there are very good quarters at the sign of the 'Lion Rouge . 
Nay , answered Sir Nigel , I cannot go until I have seen more of this person , for he appears to be a man from whom much is to be hoped . 
What is his name and title ? It is not for my lips to name it unless by his desire . 
By Saint Paul ! lisped Sir Nigel , this is certainly a man whom it is worth journeying far to know . 
Still here ! he snarled . 
Mort Dieu ! cried he , it is my little swordsman of Bordeaux . 
I should remember that coat armor , seeing that it is but three days since I looked upon it in the lists by Garonne . 
Twice he opened his mouth and twice he peered again , as though to assure himself that his eyes had not played him a trick . 
Bertrand ! he gasped at last . 
I have longed for it , I have dreamed of it , and now I can scarce bring my mind to understand that this great honor hath indeed been mine . 
By the Virgin of Rennes ! you have given me cause to be very certain of it , said Du Guesclin , with a gleam of his broad white teeth . 
And perhaps , most honored sir , it would please you to continue the debate . 
Perhaps you would condescend to go farther into the matter . 
Your fame is very well known to me , and I shall ask my lady to enter your name upon my tablets , said Sir Bertrand . 
There are many who wish to advance themselves , and who bide their turn , for I refuse no man who comes on such an errand . 
At present it may not be , for mine arm is stiff from this small touch , and I would fain do you full honor when we cross swords again . 
Come in with me , and let your squires come also , that my sweet spouse , the Lady Tiphaine , may say that she hath seen so famed and gentle a knight . 
Into the chamber they went in all peace and concord , where the Lady Tiphaine sat like queen on throne for each in turn to be presented to her . 
He bethought him , too , as he looked at her set lips and deep set questioning eyes , that he had heard strange tales of this same Lady Tiphaine du Guesclin . 
Often in peaceful after days was Alleyne to think of that scene of the wayside inn of Auvergne . 
The shadows of evening had fallen , and the corners of the long , low , wood panelled room were draped in darkness . 
The sputtering wood fire threw out a circle of red flickering light which played over the little group of wayfarers , and showed up every line and shadow upon their faces . 
Sir Nigel gave a long sigh as he came back from the dreams of chivalry and hardihood into which this strange woman's words had wafted him . 
I care not where I sleep , said he but these are indeed somewhat rude lodgings for this fair lady . 
What contents my lord contents me , quoth she . 
I perceive , Sir Nigel , that you are under vow , she added , glancing at his covered eye . 
It is my purpose to attempt some small deed , he answered . 
And the glove is it your lady's ? It is indeed my sweet wife's . 
Who is doubtless proud of you . 
Say rather I of her , quoth he quickly . 
God He knows that I am not worthy to be her humble servant . 
It is easy , lady , for a man to ride forth in the light of day , and do his devoir when all men have eyes for him . 
But in a woman's heart there is a strength and truth which asks no praise , and can but be known to him whose treasure it is . 
The Lady Tiphaine smiled across at her husband . 
You have often told me , Bertrand , that there were very gentle knights amongst the English , quoth she . 
Aye , aye , said he moodily . 
But to horse , Sir Nigel , you and yours and we shall seek the chateau of Sir Tristram de Rochefort , which is two miles on this side of Villefranche . 
He is Seneschal of Auvergne , and mine old war companion . 
Certes , he would have a welcome for you , quoth Sir Nigel but indeed he might look askance at one who comes without permit over the marches . 
By the Virgin ! when he learns that you have come to draw away these rascals he will be very blithe to look upon your face . 
Inn keeper , here are ten gold pieces . 
What is over and above your reckoning you may take off from your charges to the next needy knight who comes this way . 
Come then , for it grows late and the horses are stamping in the roadway . 
At sight of Alleyne they slunk past him with somewhat of a shame faced air , and springing upon their horses galloped after their party . 
It was indeed a singular scene which met their eyes . 
The room was a long and lofty one , stone floored and bare , with a fire at the further end upon which a great pot was boiling . 
A deal table ran down the centre , with a wooden wine pitcher upon it and two horn cups . 
Some way from it was a smaller table with a single beaker and a broken wine bottle . 
From the heavy wooden rafters which formed the roof there hung rows of hooks which held up sides of bacon , joints of smoked beef , and strings of onions for winter use . 
Has he gone ? quoth he . 
Gone ? Who ? He , the man with the red head , the giant man . 
Yes , said Alleyne , he hath gone . 
And comes not back ? No. The better for him ! cried the little man , with a long sigh of relief . 
You would have beheld a spectacle then . 
There would have been one rascal the less upon earth . 
I hurt my leg and cannot ride , quoth the bishop's champion . 
I strained a sinew on the day that I slew the three men at Castelnau . 
God save you , master Pelligny ! cried the landlord . 
It must be an awesome thing to have so much blood upon one's soul . 
And yet I do not wish to see so valiant a man mishandled , and so I will , for friendship's sake , ride after this Englishman and bring him back to you . 
You shall not stir , cried the champion , seizing the inn keeper in a convulsive grasp . 
Nay , think not of me ! cried the inn keeper . 
What are my walls when set against the honor of Francois Poursuivant d'Amour Pelligny , champion of the Bishop of Montaubon . 
I am but a rude soldier , yet I have a mind . 
Mon Dieu ! I reflect , I weigh , I balance . 
He looks around him then for some tried fighting man , some honest smiter who can give a blow or take one . 
At this moment there was a clatter of hoofs upon the road , and a varlet by the door cried out that one of the Englishmen was coming back . 
Bidding adieu to landlord and to champion , therefore , he set off at a gallop , and soon overtook the two archers . 
A pretty thing this , John , said he . 
Thou wilt have holy Church upon you if you hang her champions upon iron hooks in an inn kitchen . 
It was done without thinking , he answered apologetically , while Aylward burst into a shout of laughter . 
By my hilt ! mon petit , said he , you would have laughed also could you have seen it . 
But we must on , for I can scarce hear their hoofs upon the road . 
I think that I can see them yet , said Ford , peering down the moonlit road . 
Now they ride forth from the shadow . 
And yonder dark clump is the Castle of Villefranche . 
En avant camarades ! or Sir Nigel may reach the gates before us . 
But hark , mes amis , what sound is that ? As he spoke the hoarse blast of a horn was heard from some woods upon the right . 
An answering call rung forth upon their left , and hard upon it two others from behind them . 
They are the horns of swine herds , quoth Aylward . 
Though why they blow them so late I cannot tell . 
HOW THE BLESSED HOUR OF SIGHT CAME TO THE LADY TIPHAINE . 
SIR TRISTRAM DE ROCHEFORT , Seneschal of Auvergne and Lord of Villefranche , was a fierce and renowned soldier who had grown gray in the English wars . 
At times he would come back in triumph , and a dozen corpses swinging from the summit of his keep would warn evil doers that there was still a law in the land . 
Wolves or watch dogs , it was hard to say from which the sheep had most to fear . 
The Castle of Villefranche was harsh and stern as its master . 
A broad moat , a high outer wall turreted at the corners , with a great black keep towering above all so it lay before them in the moonlight . 
A happy day it would be for the Seneschal of Auvergne when they should learn that the last yew bow was over the marches . 
The material for a feast was ever at hand in days when , if there was grim want in the cottage , there was at least rude plenty in the castle . 
The Lady Rochefort , a bright and laughter loving dame , sat upon the left of her warlike spouse , with Lady Tiphaine upon the right . 
Beneath sat Du Guesclin and Sir Nigel , with Sir Amory Monticourt , of the order of the Hospitallers , and Sir Otto Harnit , a wandering knight from the kingdom of Bohemia . 
