The Tenant of Wildfell Hall by Anne Bronte Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
One word more , and I have done . 
Respecting the author's identity , I would have it to he distinctly understood that Acton Bell is neither Currer nor Ellis Bell , and therefore let not his faults be attributed to them . 
As to whether the name be real or fictitious , it cannot greatly signify to those who know him only by his works . 
THE TENANT OF WILDFELL HALL CHAPTER I You must go back with me to the autumn of . 
With such reflections as these I was endeavouring to console myself , as I plodded home from the fields , one cold , damp , cloudy evening towards the close of October . 
I need not tell you this was my sister Rose . 
She is , I know , a comely matron still , and , doubtless , no less lovely in your eyes than on the happy day you first beheld her . 
'Well ! here they both are , cried my mother , looking round upon us without retarding the motion of her nimble fingers and glittering needles . 
'That's my brave boy ! and Fergus , what have you been doing ? 'Badger baiting . 
'It's time you should be doing something else , Fergus , said I , as soon as a momentary pause in his narration allowed me to get in a word . 
Our parent soothingly stroked his stiff , short curls . 
He growled , and tried to look sulky , and then we all took our seats at the table , in obedience to the thrice repeated summons of Rose . 
'Now take your tea , said she 'and I'll tell you what I've been doing . 
'Well , resumed Rose 'I was going to tell you an important piece of news I heard there I have been bursting with it ever since . 
'Preposterous ! ! ! shrieked Fergus . 
'Nonsense , Fergus ! But isn't it strange , mamma ? 'Strange ! I can hardly believe it . 
'But you may believe it for Jane Wilson has seen her . 
Moreover , she was barely civil to them , and evidently better pleased to say 'good by , than 'how do you do . 
And we should call some time , mamma it's only proper , you know . 
'Of course , my dear . 
But if he intended the speech to be hailed as a master stroke of wit , he signally failed , for nobody laughed . 
You are mistaken there , ma'am , said she , almost haughtily I am certain I never shall . 
But I told her I knew better . 
'Some romantic young widow , I suppose , said I , 'come there to end her days in solitude , and mourn in secret for the dear departed but it won't last long . 
'Well , I can imagine many faces more beautiful than Eliza's , though not more charming . 
I allow she has small claims to perfection but then , I maintain that , if she were more perfect , she would be less interesting . 
'And so you prefer her faults to other people's perfections ? 'Just so saving my mother's presence . 
After that Rose favoured me with further particulars respecting Mrs. Graham . 
The next day was Saturday and , on Sunday , everybody wondered whether or not the fair unknown would profit by the vicar's remonstrance , and come to church . 
And there I beheld a tall , lady like figure , clad in black . 
Her face was towards me , and there was something in it which , once seen , invited me to look again . 
'She thinks me an impudent puppy , thought I. 'Humph ! she shall change her mind before long , if I think it worth while . 
Then she glanced at me , simpered a little , and blushed , modestly looked at her prayer book , and endeavoured to compose her features . 
Here I was transgressing again and this time I was made sensible of it by a sudden dig in the ribs , from the elbow of my pert brother . 
For the present , I could only resent the insult by pressing my foot upon his toes , deferring further vengeance till we got out of church . 
She was trusted and valued by her father , loved and courted by all dogs , cats , children , and poor people , and slighted and neglected by everybody else . 
I will just touch upon two other persons whom I have mentioned , and then bring this long letter to a close . 
These are Mrs. Wilson and her daughter . 
The former was the widow of a substantial farmer , a narrow minded , tattling old gossip , whose character is not worth describing . 
Their sister Jane was a young lady of some talents , and more ambition . 
She had , at her own desire , received a regular boarding school education , superior to what any member of the family had obtained before . 
She had taken the polish well , acquired considerable elegance of manners , quite lost her provincial accent , and could boast of more accomplishments than the vicar's daughters . 
She was considered a beauty besides but never for a moment could she number me amongst her admirers . 
Now , Halford , I bid you adieu for the present . 
This is the first instalment of my debt . 
Yours immutably , GILBERT MARKHAM . 
I think the day I last mentioned was a certain Sunday , the latest in the October of . 
The little creature raised its face and called aloud to the dog . 
The good natured animal paused , looked up , and wagged his tail , but made no further advances . 
In attempting to disengage himself his foot slipped , and down he tumbled but not to the earth the tree still kept him suspended . 
I wiped his eyes with his frock , told him he was all right and called Sancho to pacify him . 
I have the pleasure of addressing Mr. Markham , I believe ? she added , somewhat abruptly . 
I bowed , but ventured to ask how she knew me . 
'Your sister called here , a few days ago , with Mrs. Markham . 
'Is the resemblance so strong then ? I asked , in some surprise , and not so greatly flattered at the idea as I ought to have been . 
'There is a likeness about the eyes and complexion I think , replied she , somewhat dubiously surveying my face 'and I think I saw you at church on Sunday . 
, while her sister was seated at the chimney corner , with the cat on her knee , mending a heap of stockings . 
'Mary Mary ! put them away ! Eliza was hastily saying , just as I entered the room . 
'Not I , indeed ! was the phlegmatic reply and my appearance prevented further discussion . 
'You're so unfortunate , Mr. Markham ! observed the younger sister , with one of her arch , sidelong glances . 
'Well , if you'll be very good and amusing , we shall not object . 
'Let your permission be unconditional , pray for I came not to give pleasure , but to seek it , I answered . 
We seemed , indeed , to be mutually pleased with each other , and managed to maintain between us a cheerful and animated though not very profound conversation . 
I did this myself , however , as in duty bound . 
'Thank you , Mr. Markham , said she , as I presented it to her . 
'I would have picked it up myself only I did not want to disturb the cat . 
'Mary , dear , that won't excuse you in Mr. Markham's eyes , said Eliza 'he hates cats , I daresay , as cordially as he does old maids like all other gentlemen . 
Don't you , Mr. Markham ? 'I believe it is natural for our unamiable sex to dislike the creatures , replied I 'for you ladies lavish so many caresses upon them . 
'Bless them little darlings ! cried she , in a sudden burst of enthusiasm , turning round and overwhelming her sister's pet with a shower of kisses . 
'Don't , Eliza ! said Miss Millward , somewhat gruffly , as she impatiently pushed her away . 
But it was time for me to be going make what haste I would , I should still be too late for tea and my mother was the soul of order and punctuality . 
My fair friend was evidently unwilling to bid me adieu . 
I tenderly squeezed her little hand at parting and she repaid me with one of her softest smiles and most bewitching glances . 
I went home very happy , with a heart brimful of complacency for myself , and overflowing with love for Eliza . 
Now , however , the cause of that omission was explained , though not entirely to the satisfaction of Rose . 
'But you left him to come to church . 
'Is he so mischievous ? asked my mother , considerably shocked . 
'But , my dear , I call that doting , said my plain spoken parent . 
'You should try to suppress such foolish fondness , as well to save your son from ruin as yourself from ridicule . 
'Ruin ! Mrs. Markham ! 'Yes it is spoiling the child . 
Even at his age , he ought not to be always tied to his mother's apron string he should learn to be ashamed of it . 
Markham , I beg you will not say such things , in his presence , at least . 
I trust my son will never be ashamed to love his mother ! said Mrs. Graham , with a serious energy that startled the company . 
My mother attempted to appease her by an explanation but she seemed to think enough had been said on the subject , and abruptly turned the conversation . 
In a little while , however , I was sensible that some one was approaching me , with a light , but slow and hesitating tread . 
It was little Arthur , irresistibly attracted by my dog Sancho , that was lying at my feet . 
A little encouragement , however , induced him to come forward . 
The child , though shy , was not sullen . 
'Arthur , said she , at length , 'come here . 
You are troublesome to Mr. Markham he wishes to read . 
'By no means , Mrs. Graham pray let him stay . 
I am as much amused as he is , pleaded I. But still , with hand and eye , she silently called him to her side . 
'No , mamma , said the child 'let me look at these pictures first and then I'll come , and tell you all about them . 
'We are going to have a small party on Monday , the fifth of November , said my mother 'and I hope you will not refuse to make one , Mrs. Graham . 
'Thank you , I never go to parties . 
We must defer the enjoyment of your hospitality till the return of longer days and warmer nights . 
They both partook of the cake , but obstinately refused the wine , in spite of their hostess's hospitable attempts to force it upon them . 
Arthur , especially shrank from the ruby nectar as if in terror and disgust , and was ready to cry when urged to take it . 
'Never mind , Arthur , said his mamma 'Mrs . 
Markham thinks it will do you good , as you were tired with your walk but she will not oblige you to take it ! I daresay you will do very well without . 
He detests the very sight of wine , she added , 'and the smell of it almost makes him sick . 
Everybody laughed , except the young widow and her son . 
'By that means I hope to save him from one degrading vice at least . 
I wish I could render the incentives to every other equally innoxious in his case . 
'But by such means , said I , 'you will never render him virtuous . 
'I will do both , Mr. Markham . 
And this , I believe , is what most others would acknowledge who are accustomed to reflection , and wishful to strive against their natural corruptions . 
'I am to send him to school , I suppose , to learn to despise his mother's authority and affection ! said the lady , with rather a bitter smile . 
'I perfectly agree with you , Mrs. Markham but nothing can be further from my principles and practice than such criminal weakness as that . 
'No occasion to trouble the vicar , said Mrs. Graham , glancing at me I suppose I was smiling at my mother's unbounded confidence in that worthy gentleman 'Mr . 
Markham here thinks his powers of conviction at least equal to Mr. Millward's . 
If I hear not him , neither should I be convinced though one rose from the dead , he would tell you . 
'Granted but would you use the same argument with regard to a girl ? 'Certainly not . 
But will you be so good as to inform me why you make this distinction ? Is it that you think she has no virtue ? 'Assuredly not . 
You would have us encourage our sons to prove all things by their own experience , while our daughters must not even profit by the experience of others . 
'Well ! you ladies must always have the last word , I suppose , said I , observing her rise , and begin to take leave of my mother . 
'You may have as many words as you please , only I can't stay to hear them . 
'No that is the way you hear just as much of an argument as you please and the rest may be spoken to the wind . 
I gave it a spiteful squeeze , for I was annoyed at the continual injustice she had done me from the very dawn of our acquaintance . 
I was naturally touchy , or it would not have vexed me so much . 
CHAPTER IV Our party , on the th of November , passed off very well , in spite of Mrs. Graham's refusal to grace it with her presence . 
Indeed , it is probable that , had she been there , there would have been less cordiality , freedom , and frolic amongst us than there was without her . 
Nevertheless , they bore it very well , being all in their holiday humours . 
She had brought her knitting with her , and it seemed as if her tongue had laid a wager with her fingers , to outdo them in swift and ceaseless motion . 
, and bonny Miss Rose and the parson , as well as the best and he was in the right of it too . 
So he talked common place with my mother and Rose , and discussed parish affairs with the vicar , farming matters with me , and politics with us both . 
However that might be , she certainly did not give much pleasure to the company nor did she appear to derive much from it . 
She seemed to me to be good humoured enough on the whole . 
My Eliza was charming beyond description , coquettish without affectation , and evidently more desirous to engage my attention than that of all the room besides . 
But I had better hold my tongue if I boast of these things now , I shall have to blush hereafter . 
To proceed , then , with the various individuals of our party Rose was simple and natural as usual , and full of mirth and vivacity . 
Fergus was impertinent and absurd but his impertinence and folly served to make others laugh , if they did not raise himself in their estimation . 
Mr. Lawrence and I were on tolerably intimate terms . 
was the companion most agreeable to his taste . 
I liked the man well enough , but he was too cold , and shy , and self contained , to obtain my cordial sympathies . 
A spirit of candour and frankness , when wholly unaccompanied with coarseness , he admired in others , but he could not acquire it himself . 
All eyes were turned to Mr. Lawrence . 
I thought he looked unnecessarily confused at being so appealed to . 
He then immediately turned to Rose , and asked her to favour the company with a song , or a tune on the piano . 
'No , said she , 'you must ask Miss Wilson she outshines us all in singing , and music too . 
'She'll sing readily enough , said Fergus , 'if you'll undertake to stand by her , Mr. Lawrence , and turn over the leaves for her . 
Perhaps he was as much charmed with her performance as she was . 
It was all very fine in its way but I cannot say that it moved me very deeply . 
There was plenty of skill and execution , but precious little feeling . 
But we had not done with Mrs. Graham yet . 
'I don't take wine , Mrs. Markham , said Mr. Millward , upon the introduction of that beverage 'I'll take a little of your home brewed ale . 
I always prefer your home brewed to anything else . 
'There's nothing like this , Mrs. Markham ! said he . 
'I always maintain that there's nothing to compare with your home brewed ale . 
'I'm sure I'm glad you like it , sir . 
I always look after the brewing myself , as well as the cheese and the butter I like to have things well done , while we're about it . 
'By no means ! replied the oracle , with a Jove like nod 'these things are all blessings and mercies , if we only knew how to make use of them . 
'But Mrs. Graham doesn't think so . 
You shall just hear now what she told us the other day I told her I'd tell you . 
He then entered more fully into the question , and explained at large the folly and impiety of such a proceeding . 
My mother heard him with profoundest reverence and even Mrs. Wilson vouchsafed to rest her tongue for a moment , and listen in silence , while she complacently sipped her gin and water . 
Mr. Lawrence sat with his elbow on the table , carelessly playing with his half empty wine glass , and covertly smiling to himself . 
'Some precautions , it may be but temperance , sir , is one thing , and abstinence another . 
, no one will deny that excess is a greater . 
'And take another , I hope , Mr. Lawrence , said my mother , pushing the bottle towards him . 
'I have met her once or twice , I replied . 
'What do you think of her ? 'I cannot say that I like her much . 
But Mary Millward obstinately refused to join us and so did Richard Wilson , though my mother earnestly entreated him to do so , and even offered to be his partner . 
We managed very well without them , however . 
'Oh , no , papa ! pleaded Eliza . 
But alas ! in turning round , there was my mother close beside me . 
What you see in her I don't know . 
It isn't only the want of money that I think about nothing of the kind but there's neither beauty , nor cleverness , nor goodness , nor anything else that's desirable . 
If you knew your own value , as I do , you wouldn't dream of it . 
Do wait awhile and see ! If you bind yourself to her , you'll repent it all your lifetime when you look round and see how many better there are . 
Take my word for it , you will . 
Indeed , you shouldn't do such things . 
And if you marry her , Gilbert , you'll break my heart so there's an end of it . 
So saying , I lighted my candle , and went to bed , considerably quenched in spirit . 
CHAPTER V It was about the close of the month , that , yielding at length to the urgent importunities of Rose , I accompanied her in a visit to Wildfell Hall . 
Leaning against the wall were several sketches in various stages of progression , and a few finished paintings mostly of landscapes and figures . 
'Oh , no ! replied she , throwing her brush on to the table , as if startled into politeness . 
'I am not so beset with visitors but that I can readily spare a few minutes to the few that do favour me with their company . 
'You have almost completed your painting , said I , approaching to observe it more closely , and surveying it with a greater degree of admiration and delight than I cared to express . 
'A few more touches in the foreground will finish it , I should think . 
'Then you don't intend to keep the picture ? said I , anxious to say anything to change the subject . 
'No I cannot afford to paint for my own amusement . 
'Mamma sends all her pictures to London , said Arthur 'and somebody sells them for her there , and sends us the money . 
'You see there is a sad dearth of subjects , observed the fair artist . 
I have been told that you have a fine view of the sea somewhere in the neighbourhood . 
I shall not think about going till next spring and then , perhaps , I may trouble you . 
'It's mamma's friend , said Arthur . 
Rose and I looked at each other . 
'I don't know what to make of her at all , whispered Rose . 
The child looked at her in grave surprise . 
She straightway began to talk to him on indifferent matters , while I amused myself with looking at the pictures . 
There was one in an obscure corner that I had not before observed . 
It was a little child , seated on the grass with its lap full of flowers . 
In taking this up to bring it to the light , I discovered another behind it , with its face to the wall . 
I ventured to take that up too . 
Nevertheless , I surveyed it with considerable interest . 
There was a certain individuality in the features and expression that stamped it , at once , a successful likeness . 
I had not had the portrait in my hands two minutes before the fair artist returned . 
'Only some one come about the pictures , said she , in apology for her abrupt departure 'I told him to wait . 
But I was in no humour for jesting . 
I'm sorry I offended you by my abruptness . 
But Mary liked children , and fond mammas like those who can duly appreciate their treasures . 
As for Arthur , he would shout his welcome from afar , and run to meet me fifty yards from his mother's side . 
On entering the parlour I found Eliza there with Rose , and no one else . 
The surprise was not altogether so agreeable as it ought to have been . 
We chatted together a long time , but I found her rather frivolous , and even a little insipid , compared with the more mature and earnest Mrs. Graham . 
Mrs. Graham was studying the distinctive characters of the different varieties of trees in their winter nakedness , and copying , with a spirited , though delicate touch , their various ramifications . 
She did not talk much , but I stood and watched the progress of her pencil it was a pleasure to behold it so dexterously guided by those fair and graceful fingers . 
'Then , said I , 'I'll talk to Arthur till you've done . 
'I should like to have a ride , Mr. Markham , if mamma will let me , said the child . 
'What on , my boy ? 'I think there's a horse in that field , replied he , pointing to where the strong black mare was pulling the roller . 
'No , no , Arthur it's too far , objected his mother . 
But I promised to bring him safe back after a turn or two up and down the meadow and when she looked at his eager face she smiled and let him go . 
It was the first time she had even allowed me to take him so much as half a field's length from her side . 
Enthroned upon his monstrous steed , and solemnly proceeding up and down the wide , steep field , he looked the very incarnation of quiet , gleeful satisfaction and delight . 
The rolling , however , was soon completed but when I dismounted the gallant horseman , and restored him to his mother , she seemed rather displeased at my keeping him so long . 
She had shut up her sketch book , and been , probably , for some minutes impatiently waiting his return . 
It seemed hard to leave her to such a lonely , comfortless home . 
I looked up at it . 
Silent and grim it frowned before us . 
'Do you not find it a desolate place to live in ? said I , after a moment of silent contemplation . 
'I do , sometimes , replied she . 
If Rachel is satisfied with such a life , why should not I ? Indeed , I cannot be too thankful for such an asylum , while it is left me . 
The closing sentence was uttered in an under tone , as if spoken rather to herself than to me . 
She then bid me good evening and withdrew . 
I had not proceeded many steps on my way homewards when I perceived Mr. Lawrence , on his pretty grey pony , coming up the rugged lane that crossed over the hill top . 
I went a little out of my way to speak to him for we had not met for some time . 
'Was that Mrs. Graham you were speaking to just now ? said he , after the first few words of greeting had passed between us . 
'Humph ! I thought so . 
He looked contemplatively at his horse's mane , as if he had some serious cause of dissatisfaction with it , or something else . 
'Well ! what then ? 'Oh , nothing ! replied he . 
'Only I thought you disliked her , he quietly added , curling his classic lip with a slightly sarcastic smile . 
'Suppose I did mayn't a man change his mind on further acquaintance ? 'Yes , of course , returned he , nicely reducing an entanglement in the pony's redundant hoary mane . 
No I think I hold the same opinion respecting her as before but slightly ameliorated . 
'I in love with her ! repeated he . 
But I thought you were going to marry Eliza Millward . 
'You thought wrong , then I am not going to marry either one or the other that I know of 'Then I think you'd better let them alone . 
'Are you going to marry Jane Wilson ? He coloured , and played with the mane again , but answered 'No , I think not . 
'Then you had better let her alone . 
If I say , Well , mamma , I don't , I'm told I ought not to think of myself . 
'And very good doctrine too , said my mother . 
'Gilbert thinks so , I'm sure . 
'Ah ! and you never will know , Gilbert , till you're married . 
'Oh ! that's all nonsense , my dear . 
It's mere boy's talk that ! You'll soon tire of petting and humouring your wife , be she ever so charming , and then comes the trial . 
'Well , then , we must bear one another's burdens . 
'Then you must fall each into your proper place . 
You'll do your business , and she , if she's worthy of you , will do hers but it's your business to please yourself , and hers to please you . 
'I beg your pardon ! exclaimed he . 
'It's the ladies that are accompanying me , not I them . 
'Can't you both go ? suggested Eliza , disregarding the latter half of the speech . 
They struck me as forming a pleasing contrast to all the surrounding objects but of course their position was immediately changed on our entrance . 
I could only observe the picture during the few brief seconds that Rachel held the door for our admittance . 
I do not think Mrs. Graham was particularly delighted to see us there was something indescribably chilly in her quiet , calm civility but I did not talk much to her . 
with some most impertinent question or remark . 
At one time it was , 'It , amazes me , Mrs. Graham , how you could choose such a dilapidated , rickety old place as this to live in . 
You see I have effected some little improvement already , continued she , turning to the window . 
'But then how can you bear such a situation your nearest neighbours two miles distant , and nobody looking in or passing by ? Rose would go stark mad in such a place . 
'I am not sure the loneliness of the place was not one of its chief recommendations . 
I take no pleasure in watching people pass the windows and I like to be quiet . 
'Oh ! as good as to say you wish we would all of us mind our own business , and let you alone . 
'No , I dislike an extensive acquaintance but if I have a few friends , of course I am glad to see them occasionally . 
No one can be happy in eternal solitude . 
She then turned and addressed some observation to Rose or Eliza . 
Well , the question , or questions , you are requested to solve 'Hold your tongue , Fergus ! cried Rose , in a fever of apprehension and wrath . 
'I won't , I tell you . 
The questions you are requested to solve are these First , concerning your birth , extraction , and previous residence . 
I was about to comply with her request , but Rose would not suffer me to proceed . 
'Oh , don't tell her , Gilbert ! cried she 'she shall go with us . 
It's Bay you are thinking about , I suppose , Mrs. Graham ? It is a very long walk , too far for you , and out of the question for Arthur . 
She was told it would only be a small party , and all friends , and that the best view of all was from Cliffs , full five miles distant . 
So the proposal was finally acceded to and , after some further discussion respecting the time and manner of the projected excursion , we rose , and took our leave . 
Then , on a glorious morning , we gathered our forces and set forth . 
The company consisted of Mrs. and Master Graham , Mary and Eliza Millward , Jane and Richard Wilson , and Rose , Fergus , and Gilbert Markham . 
Mr. Lawrence had been invited to join us , but , for some reason best known to himself , had refused to give us his company . 
I had solicited the favour myself . 
When I did so , he hesitated , and asked who were going . 
It was about midday when we reached the place of our destination . 
The former , it is true , was most provokingly unsociable at first seemingly bent upon talking to no one but Mary Millward and Arthur . 
At length our walk was ended . 
I looked at my companion to see what she thought of this glorious scene . 
She said nothing but she stood still , and fixed her eyes upon it with a gaze that assured me she was not disappointed . 
A cool , reviving breeze blew from the sea soft , pure , salubrious it waved her drooping ringlets , and imparted a livelier colour to her usually too pallid lip and cheek . 
She felt its exhilarating influence , and so did I I felt it tingling through my frame , but dared not give way to it while she remained so quiet . 
There was an aspect of subdued exhilaration in her face , that kindled into almost a smile of exalted , glad intelligence as her eye met mine . 
Never had she looked so lovely never had my heart so warmly cleaved to her as now . 
Had we been left two minutes longer standing there alone , I cannot answer for the consequences . 
Mrs. Graham seated herself at a distance from me . 
Eliza was my nearest neighbour . 
But soon my heart began to warm towards her once again and we were all very merry and happy together as far as I could see throughout the protracted social meal . 
When that was over , Rose summoned Fergus to help her to gather up the fragments , and the knives , dishes , c . 
When she was gone , I felt as if there was to be no more fun though it is difficult to say what she had contributed to the hilarity of the party . 
'Oh ! I didn't know it was you . 
Why did you startle me so ? said she , somewhat testily . 
'I hate anybody to come upon me so unexpectedly . 
'Why , what did you take me for ? said I 'if I had known you were so nervous , I would have been more cautious but 'Well , never mind . 
What did you come for ? are they all coming ? 'No this little ledge could scarcely contain them all . 
'I'm glad , for I'm tired of talking . 
'Well , then , I won't talk . 
I'll only sit and watch your drawing . 
'Oh , but you know I don't like that . 
'Then I'll content myself with admiring this magnificent prospect . 
She made no objection to this and , for some time , sketched away in silence . 
But , though this satisfaction was denied me , I was very well content to sit beside her there , and say nothing . 
'Are you there still , Mr. Markham ? said she at length , looking round upon me for I was seated a little behind on a mossy projection of the cliff . 
'What was Arthur doing when you came away ? 'He was with Miss Millward , where you left him all right , but hoping mamma would not be long away . 
'Miss Millward has many estimable qualities , which such as you cannot be expected to perceive or appreciate . 
'Thank you I always manage best , on such occasions , without assistance . 
'But , at least , I can carry your stool and sketch book . 
My opinion , happily , met her approbation , and the improvement I suggested was adopted without hesitation . 
'That , replied I , 'is only one of many evils to which a solitary life exposes us . 
'True , said she and again we relapsed into silence . 
About two minutes after , however , she declared her sketch completed , and closed the book . 
On returning to the scene of our repast we found all the company had deserted it , with the exception of three Mary Millward , Richard Wilson , and Arthur Graham . 
The younger gentleman lay fast asleep with his head pillowed on the lady's lap the other was seated beside her with a pocket edition of some classic author in his hand . 
he must pull out his book , and make the most of his time while digesting his temperate meal , and reposing his weary limbs , unused to so much exercise . 
She had observed my preference for the young widow , and evidently felt herself neglected . 
But this time she declined my proffered aid in so kind and friendly a manner that I almost forgave her . 
CHAPTER VIII Six weeks had passed away . 
It was a splendid morning about the close of June . 
I tore off the cover , and disclosed an elegant and portable edition of 'Marmion . 
'I guess I know who that's for , said Fergus , who stood looking on while I complacently examined the volume . 
'That's for Miss Eliza , now . 
He pronounced this with a tone and look so prodigiously knowing , that I was glad to contradict him . 
'You're wrong , my lad , said I and , taking up my coat , I deposited the book in one of its pockets , and then put it on . 
'Now come here , you idle dog , and make yourself useful for once , I continued . 
'Pull off your coat , and take my place in the field till I come back . 
'Till you come back ? and where are you going , pray ? 'No matter where the when is all that concerns you and I shall be back by dinner , at least . 
It was a kind of serious , almost sorrowful displeasure , which I soon learnt carefully to avoid awakening . 
, we'll see what next may be effected . 
My second was to bring him a book , which , knowing his mother's particularity , I had carefully selected , and which I submitted for her approbation before presenting it to him . 
Then , I brought her some plants for her garden , in my sister's name having previously persuaded Rose to send them . 
'Oh , yes ! come in , said she . 
She , however , attentively watched my looks , and her artist's pride was gratified , no doubt , to read my heartfelt admiration in my eyes . 
But , while I gazed , I thought upon the book , and wondered how it was to be presented . 
My heart failed me but I determined not to be such a fool as to come away without having made the attempt . 
It was useless waiting for an opportunity , and useless trying to concoct a speech for the occasion . 
'I'm sorry to offend you , Mr. Markham , said she , 'but unless I pay for the book , I cannot take it . 
And she laid it on the table . 
'Why cannot you ? 'Because , she paused , and looked at the carpet . 
'Why cannot you ? I repeated , with a degree of irascibility that roused her to lift her eyes and look me steadily in the face . 
'Then you won't take the book ? I asked , more mildly than I had yet spoken . 
'I will gladly take it , if you will let me pay for it . 
She produced her purse , and coolly counted out the money , but hesitated to put it into my hand . 
Miss Millward was there , it is true , but she , of course , would be little better than a nonentity . 
'I know nothing about them . 
What in the world do you mean , Eliza ? 'Oh , don't ask me ! I can't explain it . 
She took up the cambric handkerchief which she had been beautifying with a deep lace border , and began to be very busy . 
'I don't know , replied she . 
'Some idle slander somebody has been inventing , I suppose . 
'Well , observed Eliza , with a gentle sigh , 'it's well to have such a comfortable assurance regarding the worth of those we love . 
I only wish you may not find your confidence misplaced . 
But I was out of temper with Eliza at that moment for her insinuations against Mrs. Graham , which were false , I was certain , whether she knew it or not . 
A few days after this we had another of our quiet little parties , to which the usual company of friends and neighbours had been invited , and Mrs. Graham among the number . 
She could not now absent herself under the plea of dark evenings or inclement weather , and , greatly to my relief , she came . 
He did not arrive till some time after the rest were assembled . 
I was curious to see how he would comport himself to Mrs. Graham . 
'Did you ever see such art ? whispered Eliza , who was my nearest neighbour . 
'Well , tell me then , I answered in a lower tone , 'what is it you mean ? I hate enigmas . 
'Well , you know , I don't vouch for the truth of it indeed , far from it but haven't you heard ? 'I've heard nothing , except from you . 
'You must be wilfully deaf then , for anyone will tell you that but I shall only anger you by repeating it , I see , so I had better hold my tongue . 
She closed her lips and folded her hands before her , with an air of injured meekness . 
'If you had wished not to anger me , you should have held your tongue from the beginning , or else spoken out plainly and honestly all you had to say . 
She turned aside her face , pulled out her handkerchief , rose , and went to the window , where she stood for some time , evidently dissolved in tears . 
I was astounded , provoked , ashamed not so much of my harshness as for her childish weakness . 
On taking my seat , I had Rose on one side of me and an empty chair on the other . 
'May I sit by you ? said a soft voice at my elbow . 
I handed down her tea with a slightly contemptuous smile , and said nothing , for I had nothing to say . 
'What have I done to offend you ? said she , more plaintively . 
'Come , take your tea , Eliza , and don't be foolish , responded I , handing her the sugar and cream . 
Just then there arose a slight commotion on the other side of me , occasioned by Miss Wilson's coming to negotiate an exchange of seats with Rose . 
'Will you be so good as to exchange places with me , Miss Markham ? said she 'for I don't like to sit by Mrs. Graham . 
If your mamma thinks proper to invite such persons to her house , she cannot object to her daughter's keeping company with them . 
This latter clause was added in a sort of soliloquy when Rose was gone but I was not polite enough to let it pass . 
'Will you be so good as to tell me what you mean , Miss Wilson ? said I. The question startled her a little , but not much . 
'She is not , nor am I and therefore you would oblige me by explaining your meaning a little further . 
'This is scarcely the time or the place for such explanations but I think you can hardly be so ignorant as you pretend you must know her as well as I do . 
'Can you tell me , then , who was her husband , or if she ever had any ? Indignation kept me silent . 
At such a time and place I could not trust myself to answer . 
Eliza was startled the timidly spoken suggestion had been intended for my ear alone . 
'Oh , I beg your pardon ! pleaded she 'I may be mistaken perhaps I was mistaken . 
But she accompanied the words with a sly glance of derision directed to me from the corner of her disingenuous eye . 
sufficient sense of propriety to withhold him from acknowledging anything more than a bowing acquaintance in the presence of respectable persons he was evidently both surprised and annoyed to find her here . 
'Go it ! cried Fergus , who sat on the other side of Eliza , and was the only individual who shared that side of the table with us . 
'Go it like bricks ! mind you don't leave her one stone upon another . 
Miss Wilson drew herself up with a look of freezing scorn , but said nothing . 
What more was said at the tea table I cannot tell , nor how I found patience to sit till the meal was over . 
Meantime , my brain was on fire with indignation , and my heart seemed ready to burst from its prison with conflicting passions . 
I regarded my two fair neighbours with a feeling of abhorrence and loathing I scarcely endeavoured to conceal . 
At length it was over and I rose and left the table and the guests without a word of apology I could endure their company no longer . 
I rushed out to cool my brain in the balmy evening air , and to compose my mind or indulge my passionate thoughts in the solitude of the garden . 
However , I nestled up in a corner of the bower , and hoped to retain possession of it , secure alike from observation and intrusion . 
'Oh , don't let us disturb you , Mr. Markham ! said she . 
'We came here to seek retirement ourselves , not to intrude on your seclusion . 
'I am no hermit , Mrs. Graham though I own it looks rather like it to absent myself in this uncourteous fashion from my guests . 
'I feared you were unwell , said she , with a look of real concern . 
'I was rather , but it's over now . 
But that word refuge disturbed me . 
Had their unkindness then really driven her to seek for peace in solitude ? 'Why have they left you alone ? I asked . 
'It is I who have left them , was the smiling rejoinder . 
'I was wearied to death with small talk nothing wears me out like that . 
I cannot imagine how they can go on as they do . 
I could not help smiling at the serious depth of her wonderment . 
'Not all of them , surely ? cried the lady , astonished at the bitterness of my remark . 
'No , certainly I exonerate my sister from such degraded tastes , and my mother too , if you included her in your animadversions . 
'I meant no animadversions against any one , and certainly intended no disrespectful allusions to your mother . 
I have known some sensible persons great adepts in that style of conversation when circumstances impelled them to it but it is a gift I cannot boast the possession of . 
I kept up my attention on this occasion as long as I could , but when my powers were exhausted I stole away to seek a few minutes' repose in this quiet walk . 
I hate talking where there is no exchange of ideas or sentiments , and no good given or received . 
'I don't quite believe you but if it were so you would exactly suit me for a companion . 
'I am all you wish , then , in other respects ? 'No , I don't mean that . 
How beautiful those little clusters of foliage look , where the sun comes through behind them ! said she , on purpose to change the subject . 
'I almost wish I were not a painter , observed my companion . 
'Why so ? one would think at such a time you would most exult in your privilege of being able to imitate the various brilliant and delightful touches of nature . 
'Perhaps you cannot do it to satisfy yourself , but you may and do succeed in delighting others with the result of your endeavours . 
'Well , after all , I should not complain perhaps few people gain their livelihood with so much pleasure in their toil as I do . 
Here is some one coming . 
She seemed vexed at the interruption . 
'It is only Mr. Lawrence and Miss Wilson , said I , 'coming to enjoy a quiet stroll . 
They will not disturb us . 
I could not quite decipher the expression of her face but I was satisfied there was no jealousy therein . 
What business had I to look for it ? 'What sort of a person is Miss Wilson ? she asked . 
'She is elegant and accomplished above the generality of her birth and station and some say she is ladylike and agreeable . 
'I thought her somewhat frigid and rather supercilious in her manner to day . 
'Very likely she might be so to you . 
She has possibly taken a prejudice against you , for I think she regards you in the light of a rival . 
'Me ! Impossible , Mr. Markham ! said she , evidently astonished and annoyed . 
'Well , I know nothing about it , returned I , rather doggedly for I thought her annoyance was chiefly against myself . 
The pair had now approached within a few paces of us . 
Our arbour was set snugly back in a corner , before which the avenue at its termination turned off into the more airy walk along the bottom of the garden . 
I noticed that he coloured up to the temples , gave us one furtive glance in passing , and walked on , looking grave , but seemingly offering no reply to her remarks . 
It was true , then , that he had some designs upon Mrs. Graham and , were they honourable , he would not be so anxious to conceal them . 
She was blameless , of course , but he was detestable beyond all count . 
For this I owed Miss Wilson yet another grudge and still the more I thought upon her conduct the more I hated her . 
It was late in the evening before I joined the company . 
I found Mrs. Graham already equipped for departure , and taking leave of the rest , who were now returned to the house . 
I offered , nay , begged to accompany her home . 
Mr. Lawrence was standing by at the time conversing with some one else . 
A denial it was , decided , though not unkind . 
She could not be persuaded to think there was danger for herself or her child in traversing those lonely lanes and fields without attendance . 
It was daylight still , and she should meet no one or if she did , the people were quiet and harmless she was well assured . 
When she was gone the rest was all a blank or worse . 
Lawrence attempted to draw me into conversation , but I snubbed him and went to another part of the room . 
Shortly after the party broke up and he himself took leave . 
'What is the matter , Markham ? whispered he . 
I replied by a wrathful and contemptuous stare . 
'Are you angry because Mrs. Graham would not let you go home with her ? he asked , with a faint smile that nearly exasperated me beyond control . 
I had wounded him to the quick and I was glad of it . 
CHAPTER X When all were gone , I learnt that the vile slander had indeed been circulated throughout the company , in the very presence of the victim . 
You see what it is for women to affect to be different to other people . 
'No more I do , my dear but then , you know , there must be some foundation . 
'Well , but , Gilbert , there must be something in her manner to countenance such reports . 
'Did you see anything in her manner ? 'No , certainly but then , you know , I always said there was something strange about her . 
I believe it was on that very evening that I ventured on another invasion of Wildfell Hall . 
, had nightly kept revolving in my mind some pretext for another call . 
My wish , however , was not gratified . 
Mrs. Graham herself was not to be seen but there was Arthur playing with his frolicsome little dog in the garden . 
I looked over the gate and called him to me . 
He wanted me to come in but I told him I could not without his mother's leave . 
'I'll go and ask her , said the child . 
'No , no , Arthur , you mustn't do that but if she's not engaged , just ask her to come here a minute . 
Tell her I want to speak to her . 
He ran to perform my bidding , and quickly returned with his mother . 
How lovely she looked with her dark ringlets streaming in the light summer breeze , her fair cheek slightly flushed , and her countenance radiant with smiles . 
'Well , Mr. Markham , what is it ? said the young mother , accosting me with a pleasant smile . 
'I want you to look at this book , and , if you please , to take it , and peruse it at your leisure . 
I make no apology for calling you out on such a lovely evening , though it be for a matter of no greater importance . 
'Tell him to come in , mamma , said Arthur . 
'Would you like to come in ? asked the lady . 
'Yes I should like to see your improvements in the garden . 
'And how your sister's roots have prospered in my charge , added she , as she opened the gate . 
And we sauntered through the garden , and talked of the flowers , the trees , and the book , and then of other things . 
The evening was kind and genial , and so was my companion . 
'May I not keep it myself ? I asked . 
'No but here is another for you . 
Instead of taking it quietly , I likewise took the hand that offered it , and looked into her face . 
'Now , Mr. Markham , said she , with a kind of desperate calmness , 'I must tell you plainly that I cannot do with this . 
'Is it in consequence of some rash vow ? 'It is something of the kind , she answered . 
How sweet , how musical my own name sounded in her mouth ! 'I will not , I replied . 
'But you pardon this offence ? 'On condition that you never repeat it . 
'And may I come to see you now and then ? 'Perhaps occasionally provided you never abuse the privilege . 
'I make no empty promises , but you shall see . 
'The moment you do our intimacy is at an end , that's all . 
'And will you always call me Gilbert ? It sounds more sisterly , and it will serve to remind me of our contract . 
She smiled , and once more bid me go and at length I judged it prudent to obey , and she re entered the house and I went down the hill . 
Inclining to dusk as it was , I knew him at a glance it was Mr. Lawrence on his grey pony . 
I flew across the field , leaped the stone fence , and then walked down the lane to meet him . 
On seeing me , he suddenly drew in his little steed , and seemed inclined to turn back , but on second thought apparently judged it better to continue his course as before . 
He accosted me with a slight bow , and , edging close to the wall , endeavoured to pass on but I was not so minded . 
'You and your pony be 'What makes you so coarse and brutal , Markham ? I'm quite ashamed of you . 
'Now then , said I , unclosing my hand , but still standing before him . 
'Really , Mr. Markham , this is too much ! said the latter . 
'You'd better defer your opinion to a more convenient season , interrupted he in a low tone 'here's the vicar . 
And , in truth , the vicar was just behind me , plodding homeward from some remote corner of his parish . 
I immediately released the squire and he went on his way , saluting Mr. Millward as he passed . 
'What ! quarrelling , Markham ? cried the latter , addressing himself to me , 'and about that young widow , I doubt ? he added , reproachfully shaking his head . 
, 'she's not worth it ! and he confirmed the assertion by a solemn nod . 
CHAPTER XI You must suppose about three weeks passed over . 
Mrs. Graham and I were now established friends or brother and sister , as we rather chose to consider ourselves . 
She called me Gilbert , by my express desire , and I called her Helen , for I had seen that name written in her books . 
'Where are you going , Gilbert ? said Rose , one evening , shortly after tea , when I had been busy with the farm all day . 
'To take a walk , was the reply . 
'Do you always brush your hat so carefully , and do your hair so nicely , and put on such smart new gloves when you take a walk ? 'Not always . 
'You're going to Wildfell Hall , aren't you ? 'What makes you think so ? 'Because you look as if you were but I wish you wouldn't go so often . 
I should as soon believe such things of you , Rose . 
'Oh , no ! you know nothing of her former life and last year , at this time , you did not know that such a person existed . 
'Then you are going to see her this evening ? 'To be sure I am ! 'But what would mamma say , Gilbert ! 'Mamma needn't know . 
'But she must know some time , if you go on . 
'Go on ! there's no going on in the matter . 
Mrs. Graham and I are two friends and will be and no man breathing shall hinder it , or has a right to interfere between us . 
'But if you knew how they talk you would be more careful , for her sake as well as for your own . 
Jane Wilson thinks your visits to the old hall but another proof of her depravity 'Confound Jane Wilson ! 'And Eliza Millward is quite grieved about you . 
'But I wouldn't , if I were you . 
'Wouldn't what ? How do they know that I go there ? 'There's nothing hid from them they spy out everything . 
Mind you contradict them , Rose , whenever you can . 
'But they don't speak openly to me about such things it is only by hints and innuendoes , and by what I hear others say , that I knew what they think . 
'Well , then , I won't go to day , as it's getting latish . 
But oh , deuce take their cursed , envenomed tongues ! I muttered , in the bitterness of my soul . 
And just at that moment the vicar entered the room we had been too much absorbed in our conversation to observe his knock . 
'I have been busy , I said , for an apology was evidently demanded . 
'Busy ! repeated he , derisively . 
'Yes , you know I've been getting in my hay and now the harvest is beginning . 
'Humph ! Just then my mother came in , and created a diversion in my favour by her loquacious and animated welcome of the reverend guest . 
'Not any for me , I thank you , replied he 'I shall be at home in a few minutes . 
'Oh , but do stay and take a little ! it will be ready in five minutes . 
But he rejected the offer with a majestic wave of the hand . 
'I'll tell you what I'll take , Mrs. Markham , said he 'I'll take a glass of your excellent ale . 
'With pleasure ! cried my mother , proceeding with alacrity to pull the bell and order the favoured beverage . 
'I thought , continued he , 'I'd just look in upon you as I passed , and taste your home brewed ale . 
I've been to call on Mrs. Graham . 
'Have you , indeed ? He nodded gravely , and added with awful emphasis 'I thought it incumbent upon me to do so . 
'Really ! ejaculated my mother . 
My mother sat opposite , an awe struck but admiring auditor . 
So I told her ! 'You did , sir ? cried I , starting from my seat and striking my fist on the table . 
'Hardened , I fear hardened ! he replied , with a despondent shake of the head 'and , at the same time , there was a strong display of unchastened , misdirected passions . 
And I withdrew at length , too plainly seeing that nothing could be done and sadly grieved to find her case so hopeless . 
But I am fully determined , Mrs. Markham , that my daughters shall not consort with her . 
Such stormy thoughts so many different resolutions crowded in upon me , that my mind was little better than a chaos of conflicting passions . 
CHAPTER XII In little more than twenty minutes the journey was accomplished . 
I paused at the gate to wipe my streaming forehead , and recover my breath and some degree of composure . 
Already the rapid walking had somewhat mitigated my excitement and with a firm and steady tread I paced the garden walk . 
In passing the inhabited wing of the building , I caught a sight of Mrs. Graham , through the open window , slowly pacing up and down her lonely room . 
She seemed agitated and even dismayed at my arrival , as if she thought I too was coming to accuse her . 
'I am come at an unseasonable hour , said I , assuming a cheerfulness I did not feel , in order to reassure her 'but I won't stay many minutes . 
She smiled upon me , faintly it is true , but most kindly I had almost said thankfully , as her apprehensions were removed . 
'How dismal you are , Helen ! Why have you no fire ? I said , looking round on the gloomy apartment . 
'It is summer yet , she replied . 
'But we always have a fire in the evenings , if we can bear it and you especially require one in this cold house and dreary room . 
'But I have a fancy for a fire , nevertheless . 
Will you order one , if I ring ? 'Why , Gilbert , you don't look cold ! said she , smilingly regarding my face , which no doubt seemed warm enough . 
'No , replied I , 'but I want to see you comfortable before I go . 
'Me comfortable ! repeated she , with a bitter laugh , as if there were something amusingly absurd in the idea . 
'It suits me better as it is , she added , in a tone of mournful resignation . 
But determined to have my own way , I pulled the bell . 
'There now , Helen ! I said , as the approaching steps of Rachel were heard in answer to the summons . 
There was nothing for it but to turn round and desire the maid to light the fire . 
'You must not stay long , Gilbert , said she , when the door was closed upon us . 
'I'm not going to , said I , somewhat testily , though without a grain of anger in my heart against any one but the meddling old woman . 
'But , Helen , I've something to say to you before I go . 
It was like setting my life upon the cast of a die and yet I was ready to resolve upon the attempt . 
'I see , said I. 'You want me to go , I suppose ? 'I think you ought . 
If my kind neighbours get to know of this visit as no doubt they will they will not turn it much to my advantage . 
It was with what the vicar would doubtless have called a savage sort of smile that she said this . 
'Let them turn it as they will , said I. 'What are their thoughts to you or me , so long as we are satisfied with ourselves and each other . 
Let them go to the deuce with their vile constructions and their lying inventions ! This outburst brought a flush of colour to her face . 
'But it could not harm you to tell it , I persisted 'it would ease your mind and I should then know how to comfort you . 
She shook her head despondingly . 
'You , Helen ? Impossible ? 'Yes , not willingly for I did not know the strength and depth of your attachment . 
I thought at least I endeavoured to think your regard for me was as cold and fraternal as you professed it to be . 
'Or as yours ? 'Or as mine ought to have been of such a light and selfish , superficial nature , that 'There , indeed , you wronged me . 
'I can safely answer no to that you cannot have such grave confessions to make you must be trying my faith , Helen . 
She turned from me to hide the emotion she could not quite control but I took her hand and fervently kissed it . 
'Gilbert , do leave me ! she cried , in a tone of such thrilling anguish that I felt it would be cruel to disobey . 
I felt that to obtrude my consolations on her then would only serve to aggravate her sufferings . 
There was little besides the chimneys visible above my contracted horizon . 
I walked back to get a better view of it . 
When it rose in sight , I stood still a moment to look , and then continued moving towards the gloomy object of attraction . 
Her chair was vacant so was the room . 
Here , then , were she and Rachel coming to take a walk in the garden . 
I wished myself safe back over the wall . 
My heart was splitting with hatred but I listened intently for her reply . 
I heard it plainly enough . 
'But where could you find a better place ? replied he , 'so secluded so near me , if you think anything of that . 
'Yes , interrupted she , 'it is all I could wish , if they could only have left me alone . 
'But wherever you go , Helen , there will be the same sources of annoyance . 
I cannot consent to lose you I must go with you , or come to you and there are meddling fools elsewhere , as well as here . 
'Oh , Gilbert ! how could you do so ? Where have you been ? Do come in and take your supper . 
I've got it all ready , though you don't deserve it , for keeping me in such a fright , after the strange manner you left the house this evening . 
Mr. Millward was quite Bless the boy ! how ill he looks . 
Oh , gracious ! what is the matter ? 'Nothing , nothing give me a candle . 
'But won't you take some supper ? 'No I want to go to bed , said I , taking a candle and lighting it at the one she held in her hand . 
'Oh , Gilbert , how you tremble ! exclaimed my anxious parent . 
'How white you look ! Do tell me what it is ? Has anything happened ? 'It's nothing , cried I , ready to stamp with vexation because the candle would not light . 
Then , suppressing my irritation , I added , 'I've been walking too fast , that's all . 
Good night , and marched off to bed , regardless of the 'Walking too fast ! where have you been ? that was called after me from below . 
But the boards creaked , and she was watchful . 
I had not walked above a quarter of an hour before she was at the door again . 
'Can it be that Mrs. Graham that distresses you so ? 'No , no , I tell you it's nothing . 
Never did I endure so long , so miserable a night as that . 
And yet it was not wholly sleepless . 
It was a dull , gloomy morning the weather had changed like my prospects , and the rain was pattering against the window . 
CHAPTER XIII 'My dear Gilbert , I wish you would try to be a little more amiable , said my mother one morning after some display of unjustifiable ill humour on my part . 
'You say there is nothing the matter with you , and nothing has happened to grieve you , and yet I never saw anyone so altered as you within these last few days . 
You haven't a good word for anybody friends and strangers , equals and inferiors it's all the same . 
I do wish you'd try to check it . 
'Check what ? 'Why , your strange temper . 
You don't know how it spoils you . 
I'm sure a finer disposition than yours by nature could not be , if you'd let it have fair play so you've no excuse that way . 
I've given him up for my part fairly disowned him cast him off , root and branch . 
It's as much as my life is worth to come within six yards of him . 
The other day he nearly fractured my skull for singing a pretty , inoffensive love song , on purpose to amuse him . 
'Oh , Gilbert ! how could you ? exclaimed my mother . 
'I'm not going to defile my fingers with him , said I , in answer to the maternal intercession . 
'I wouldn't touch him with the tongs . 
But to day I determined to make an effort to return to my duty . 
Though I found no pleasure in it , it would be less irksome than idleness at all events it would be more profitable . 
Absent he was , but expected home in a few minutes and I was desired to step into the parlour and wait . 
However , I determined to be cool and civil . 
Eliza seemed to have made the same resolution on her part . 
'Say , rather , interposed Miss Wilson , 'that Mr. Markham feels that name is unworthy to be mentioned in the presence of right minded females . 
I wonder , Eliza , you should think of referring to that unfortunate person you might know the mention of her would be anything but agreeable to any one here present . 
, 'and will require a little refreshment before he goes . 
I submitted accordingly , with the best grace I could and , happily , I had not long to wait . 
Then , leaving him to the discussion of his substantial 'refreshment , I gladly quitted the house , and went to look after my reapers . 
But I did not visit it that day for , as I approached , I beheld , at no great distance , Mrs. Graham and her son coming down in the opposite direction . 
At all events , when I looked back , five minutes after , not a trace of either was to be seen . 
However that be , I was rendered doubly miserable for the remainder of the day . 
CHAPTER XIV Next morning , I bethought me , I , too , had business at L so I mounted my horse , and set forth on the expedition soon after breakfast . 
It was a dull , drizzly day but that was no matter it was all the more suitable to my frame of mind . 
I gave the briefest possible answers to his queries and observations , and fell back . 
He fell back too , and asked if my horse was lame . 
I replied with a look , at which he placidly smiled . 
I was as much astonished as exasperated at this singular pertinacity and imperturbable assurance on his part . 
Formerly , the slightest hint , or mere fancied coldness in tone or glance , had sufficed to repulse him now , positive rudeness could not drive him away . 
But no he moved his eyelids and uttered a slight groan . 
I breathed again he was only stunned by the fall . 
It served him right it would teach him better manners in future . 
Should I help him to his horse ? No. For any other combination of offences I would but his were too unpardonable . 
Shortly , however , the effervescence began to abate , and not many minutes elapsed before I had turned and gone back to look after the fate of my victim . 
Mr. Lawrence and his pony had both altered their positions in some degree . 
must be attributed to the whip , which was garnished with a massive horse's head of plated metal . 
But his thoughts seemed chiefly bent upon his pony , on which he was wistfully gazing half in helpless anxiety , and half in hopeless abandonment to his fate . 
'It's good enough for you , I muttered . 
'Here , you fellow scoundrel dog give me your hand , and I'll help you to mount . 
No he turned from me in disgust . 
I attempted to take him by the arm . 
He shrank away as if there had been contamination in my touch . 
'What , you won't ! Well ! you may sit there till doomsday , for what I care . 
But I suppose you don't want to lose all the blood in your body I'll just condescend to bind that up for you . 
'Let me alone , if you please . 
'Humph with all my heart . 
You may go to the d l , if you choose and say I sent you . 
He took it and cast it back to me in abhorrence and contempt , with all the strength he could muster . 
It wanted but this to fill the measure of his offences . 
Having remounted my horse , I just looked back to see how he was getting on , before I rode away . 
I was not obliged to enter into explanations further than I thought proper . 
In returning home , I was troubled with sundry misgivings about the unfortunate Lawrence . 
'You must go and see him to morrow , said my mother . 
'Or to day , suggested Rose 'there's plenty of time and you can have the pony , as your horse is tired . 
That sounds far fetched but it isn't so when you think of it . 
It must be a gross exaggeration at least . 
'No but the horse kicked him or something . 
'What , his quiet little pony ? 'How do you know it was that ? 'He seldom rides any other . 
'At any rate , said my mother , 'you will call to morrow . 
Whether it be true or false , exaggerated or otherwise , we shall like to know how he is . 
'Why not you ? 'He has more time . 
I am busy just now . 
'He is not , I tell you . 
'For anything you know , he may be you can't tell till you have seen him . 
At all events , he must have met with some terrible accident , and you ought to see him he'll take it very unkind if you don't . 
'Confound it ! I can't . 
He and I have not been on good terms of late . 
'Oh , my dear boy ! Surely , surely you are not so unforgiving as to carry your little differences to such a length as 'Little differences , indeed ! I muttered . 
'Well , but only remember the occasion . 
Think how 'Well , well , don't bother me now I'll see about it , I replied . 
, and a severe cold , the consequence of lying on the wet ground in the rain but there were no broken bones , and no immediate prospects of dissolution . 
It was evident , then , that for Mrs. Graham's sake it was not his intention to criminate me . 
CHAPTER XV That day was rainy like its predecessor but towards evening it began to clear up a little , and the next morning was fair and promising . 
I was out on the hill with the reapers . 
A light wind swept over the corn , and all nature laughed in the sunshine . 
The lark was rejoicing among the silvery floating clouds . 
Markham , mamma wants you . 
'Wants me , Arthur ? 'Yes . 
He looked up in childish bewilderment but before I could speak again the lady herself was at my side . 
'Gilbert , I must speak with you ! said she , in a tone of suppressed vehemence . 
I looked at her pale cheek and glittering eye , but answered nothing . 
'Only for a moment , pleaded she . 
'Just step aside into this other field . 
She glanced at the reapers , some of whom were directing looks of impertinent curiosity towards her . 
'I won't keep you a minute . 
I accompanied her through the gap . 
'Arthur , darling , run and gather those bluebells , said she , pointing to some that were gleaming at some distance under the hedge along which we walked . 
The child hesitated , as if unwilling to quit my side . 
'Go , love ! repeated she more urgently , and in a tone which , though not unkind , demanded prompt obedience , and obtained it . 
She fixed her eyes upon me with a look that pierced me to the heart and yet it made me smile . 
'Why not , may I ask ? She repelled my mocking smile with a glance of scornful indignation . 
'Because you never understood me , or you would not soon have listened to my traducers my confidence would be misplaced in you you are not the man I thought you . 
Go ! I won't care what you think of me . 
And I returned to my business . 
But I soon began to regret my precipitancy in leaving her so soon . 
I longed to know what to despise , and what to admire in her how much to pity , and how much to hate and , what was more , I would know . 
I would see her once more , and fairly satisfy myself in what light to regard her , before we parted . 
That last look of hers had sunk into my heart I could not forget it . 
The interview may be serviceable to her , or it may not . 
At any rate , it will give a breath of excitement to the life she has doomed to stagnation , and may calm with certainty some agitating thoughts . 
Her limited but choice collection of books was almost as familiar to me as my own but this volume I had not seen before . 
It was Sir Humphry Davy's 'Last Days of a Philosopher , and on the first leaf was written , 'Frederick Lawrence . 
And soon I heard her step in the hall . 
My heart was beginning to throb , but I checked it with an internal rebuke , and maintained my composure outwardly at least . 
She entered , calm , pale , collected . 
'I told you I would not give it , said she . 
'I said you were unworthy of my confidence . 
'Oh , very well , replied I , moving to the door . 
'Stay a moment , said she . 
'This is the last time I shall see you don't go just yet . 
I remained , awaiting her further commands . 
'Tell me , resumed she , 'on what grounds you believe these things against me who told you and what did they say ? I paused a moment . 
She met my eye as unflinchingly as if her bosom had been steeled with conscious innocence . 
She was resolved to know the worst , and determined to dare it too . 
'I can crush that bold spirit , thought I. But while I secretly exulted in my power , I felt disposed to dally with my victim like a cat . 
'So you had better leave the house at once , if you came only for that . 
'I did not come to insult you I came to hear your explanation . 
'I will not condescend to explain myself to one that can make a jest of such horrible suspicions , and be so easily led to entertain them . 
'I do not make a jest of them , Mrs. Graham , returned I , dropping at once my tone of taunting sarcasm . 
'I heartily wish I could find them a jesting matter . 
You remember that evening when I was here last ? 'I do . 
Not choosing to show myself , under the circumstances , I stood still , in the shadow , till you had both passed by . 
'And how much of our conversation did you hear ? 'I heard quite enough , Helen . 
And it was well for me that I did hear it for nothing less could have cured my infatuation . 
I always said and thought , that I would never believe a word against you , unless I heard it from your own lips . 
Mrs. Graham had discontinued her walk . 
'You should have come to me after all , said she , 'and heard what I had to say in my own justification . 
It was ungenerous and wrong to withdraw yourself so secretly and suddenly , immediately after such ardent protestations of attachment , without ever assigning a reason for the change . 
You should have told me all no matter how bitterly . 
It would have been better than this silence . 
you had deeply wronged me . 
'Did I ? replied she , looking seriously up 'I was not aware of it . 
If I did , it was not for pleasure at the thoughts of the harm I had done you . 
She looked at me again , and seemed to expect a reply but I continued silent . 
But when I had left the house , and was proceeding down the walk , she opened the window and called me back . 
It was only to say , 'Bring it back when you have read it and don't breathe a word of what it tells you to any living being . 
I trust to your honour . 
Before I could answer she had closed the casement and turned away . 
I saw her cast herself back in the old oak chair , and cover her face with her hands . 
Her feelings had been wrought to a pitch that rendered it necessary to seek relief in tears . 
It begins somewhat abruptly , thus but we will reserve its commencement for another chapter . 
CHAPTER XVI June st , . 
We have just returned to Staningley that is , we returned some days ago , and I am not yet settled , and feel as if I never should be . 
We left town sooner than was intended , in consequence of my uncle's indisposition I wonder what would have been the result if we had stayed the full time . 
I am quite ashamed of my new sprung distaste for country life . 
All my former occupations seem so tedious and dull , my former amusements so insipid and unprofitable . 
I cannot enjoy my music , because there is no one to hear it . 
I cannot enjoy my walks , because there is no one to meet . 
But , then , there is one face I am always trying to paint or to sketch , and always without success and that vexes me . 
As for the owner of that face , I cannot get him out of my mind and , indeed , I never try . 
I wonder whether he ever thinks of me and I wonder whether I shall ever see him again . 
'Helen , said she , after a thoughtful silence , 'do you ever think about marriage ? 'Yes , aunt , often . 
'That is no argument at all . 
It may be very true and I hope is true , that there are very few men whom you would choose to marry , of yourself . 
It is not , indeed , to be supposed that you would wish to marry any one till you were asked a girl's affections should never be won unsought . 
'Well , I shall be neither careless nor weak . 
'Remember Peter , Helen ! Don't boast , but watch . 
Keep a guard over your eyes and ears as the inlets of your heart , and over your lips as the outlet , lest they betray you in a moment of unwariness . 
Receive , coldly and dispassionately , every attention , till you have ascertained and duly considered the worth of the aspirant and let your affections be consequent upon approbation alone . 
First study then approve then love . 
Let your eyes be blind to all external attractions , your ears deaf to all the fascinations of flattery and light discourse . 
These are nothing and worse than nothing snares and wiles of the tempter , to lure the thoughtless to their own destruction . 
Principle is the first thing , after all and next to that , good sense , respectability , and moderate wealth . 
'But what are all the poor fools and reprobates to do , aunt ? If everybody followed your advice , the world would soon come to an end . 
And this is no subject for jesting , Helen I am sorry to see you treat the matter in that light way . 
Believe me , matrimony is a serious thing . 
My affections not only ought to be founded on approbation , but they will and must be so for , without approving , I cannot love . 
It is needless to say , I ought to be able to respect and honour the man I marry , as well as love him , for I cannot love him without . 
So set your mind at rest . 
'I hope it may be so , answered she . 
'I know it is so , persisted I. 'You have not been tried yet , Helen we can but hope , said she in her cold , cautious way . 
Her counsels may be good , as far as they go in the main points at least but there are some things she has overlooked in her calculations . 
I wonder if she was ever in love . 
I commenced my career or my first campaign , as my uncle calls it kindling with bright hopes and fancies chiefly raised by this conversation and full of confidence in my own discretion . 
Yet he was a decent man enough in the main , I daresay and if he had kept his distance , I never would have hated him . 
One night , however , at a ball , he had been more than usually tormenting , and my patience was quite exhausted . 
In vain I attempted to drive him away by giving a loose to my exasperated feelings , even to positive rudeness nothing could convince him that his presence was disagreeable . 
But there was one present who seemed to have a better appreciation of my frame of mind . 
He asked me to dance . 
I was sorry to go , for I had found my new acquaintance a very lively and entertaining companion . 
'Well , Helen , how do you like Mr. Boarham now ? said my aunt , as we took our seats in the carriage and drove away . 
'Worse than ever , I replied . 
She looked displeased , but said no more on that subject . 
'Who was it , I ask ? said she , with frigid gravity . 
'It was Mr. Huntingdon , the son of uncle's old friend . 
'I have heard your uncle speak of young Mr. Huntingdon . 
I've heard him say , He's a fine lad , that young Huntingdon , but a bit wildish , I fancy . 
So I'd have you beware . 
'What does a bit wildish mean ? I inquired . 
'It means destitute of principle , and prone to every vice that is common to youth . 
'But I've heard uncle say he was a sad wild fellow himself , when he was young . 
She sternly shook her head . 
'He was jesting then , I suppose , said I , 'and here he was speaking at random at least , I cannot believe there is any harm in those laughing blue eyes . 
'False reasoning , Helen ! said she , with a sigh . 
It was not so , however , for I met him again next morning . 
'I wish you'd tell him so , then , said my aunt . 
'Why , what for ? If I don't want him , somebody does , mayhap' . 
I'll bet anything she'd rather have this young fellow without a penny , than Wilmot with his house full of gold . 
Wouldn't you , Nell ? 'Yes , uncle but that's not saying much for Mr. Huntingdon for I'd rather be an old maid and a pauper than Mrs. Wilmot . 
'And Mrs. Huntingdon ? What would you rather be than Mrs. Huntingdon eh ? 'I'll tell you when I've considered the matter . 
'Ah ! it needs consideration , then ? But come , now would you rather be an old maid let alone the pauper ? 'I can't tell till I'm asked . 
And I left the room immediately , to escape further examination . 
But five minutes after , in looking from my window , I beheld Mr. Boarham coming up to the door . 
I waited nearly half an hour in uncomfortable suspense , expecting every minute to be called , and vainly longing to hear him go . 
Then footsteps were heard on the stairs , and my aunt entered the room with a solemn countenance , and closed the door behind her . 
'Here is Mr. Boarham , Helen , said she . 
'He wishes to see you . 
'Oh , aunt ! Can't you tell him I'm indisposed ? I'm sure I am to see him . 
'Nonsense , my dear ! this is no trifling matter . 
He is come on a very important errand to ask your hand in marriage of your uncle and me . 
'I hope my uncle and you told him it was not in your power to give it . 
'He said right and what did you say ? 'It is no matter what I said . 
What will you say ? that is the question . 
He is now waiting to ask you himself but consider well before you go and if you intend to refuse him , give me your reasons . 
'But stay , Helen sit down a little and compose yourself . 
Mr. Boarham is in no particular hurry , for he has little doubt of your acceptance and I want to speak with you . 
Tell me , my dear , what are your objections to him ? Do you deny that he is an upright , honourable man ? 'No . 
, and consider that all this is laid at your feet . 
Think how 'But I hate him , aunt , said I , interrupting this unusual flow of eloquence . 
'Then you ought to surmount it . 
, tell me which is the better man . 
'Or that you desire a further acquaintance . 
'But I don't desire a further acquaintance quite the contrary . 
And without waiting for further admonitions I left the room and went to seek Mr. Boarham . 
He was walking up and down the drawing room , humming snatches of tunes and nibbling the end of his cane . 
It was quite evident he had had little doubt of my acceptance , and no idea of a positive denial . 
He was amazed , astounded at such an answer , but too incredulous to be much offended and after a little humming and hawing , he returned to the attack . 
Come , now ! What do you say ? Let us have no young lady's affectations and caprices , but speak out at once . 
'I will , but only to repeat what I said before , that I am certain we were not made for each other . 
'You really think so ? 'I do . 
'But you don't know me you wish for a further acquaintance a longer time to 'No , I don't . 
'But , my dear young lady , I don't look for perfection I can excuse 'Thank you , Mr. Boarham , but I won't trespass upon your goodness . 
You may save your indulgence and consideration for some more worthy object , that won't tax them so heavily . 
'Ah , well ! said he , 'I have sometimes wondered at that myself . 
I shall not trouble myself to put down all that passed between us . 
No consideration can induce me to marry against my inclinations . 
Whereupon he wished me a good morning , and withdrew , disconcerted and offended , no doubt but surely it was not my fault . 
CHAPTER XVII The next day I accompanied my uncle and aunt to a dinner party at Mr. Wilmot's . 
And I , in return , was very fond of her . 
I should entirely exclude poor Milicent in my general animadversions against the ladies of my acquaintance . 
I have good reason to remember his presence there , for this was the last time I saw him . 
What a tiresome custom that is , by the by one among the many sources of factitious annoyance of this ultra civilised life . 
It is quite possible he might have chosen Miss Wilmot for she seemed bent upon engrossing his attention to herself , and he seemed nothing loth to pay the homage she demanded . 
'Are these yours ? said he , carelessly taking up one of the drawings . 
'No , they are Miss Hargrave's . 
'Oh ! well , let's have a look at them . 
But I was not left long alone , for Mr. Wilmot , of all men the least welcome , took advantage of my isolated position to come and plant himself beside me . 
Instinctively , I guessed who it was , and , on looking up , was less surprised than delighted to see Mr. Huntingdon smiling upon me . 
It was like turning from some purgatorial fiend to an angel of light , come to announce that the season of torment was past . 
, 'I want you to look at this picture . 
Mr. Wilmot will excuse you a moment , I'm sure . 
He drew my arm within his , and led me across the room to a splendid painting of Vandyke's that I had noticed before , but not sufficiently examined . 
'I am very much obliged to you , said I. 'This is twice you have delivered me from such unpleasant companionship . 
Have I , Helen ? 'You know I detest them both . 
'And me ? 'I have no reason to detest you . 
And I left him , muttering maledictions against his evil angel . 
'Well , aunt , what is it ? What do you want ? said I , following her to the embrasure of the window . 
I should be ashamed for anyone to see you in your present state . 
I offered no reply , however , but pushed aside the curtain and looked into the night or rather into the lamp lit square . 
'Was Mr. Huntingdon proposing to you , Helen ? inquired my too watchful relative . 
'What was he saying then ? I heard something very like it . 
'I don't know what he would have said , if you hadn't interrupted him . 
'And would you have accepted him , Helen , if he had proposed ? 'Of course not without consulting uncle and you . 
'Oh ! I'm glad , my dear , you have so much prudence left . 
Well , now , she added , after a moment's pause , 'you have made yourself conspicuous enough for one evening . 
The ladies are directing inquiring glances towards us at this moment , I see I shall join them . 
Do you come too , when you are sufficiently composed to appear as usual . 
'Speak gently then , and don't look so malicious , said my calm , but provoking aunt . 
'We shall return home shortly , and then , she added with solemn significance , 'I have much to say to you . 
So I went home prepared for a formidable lecture . 
With due deference I offered her my more commodious seat . 
She declined it , and thus opened the conference 'Do you remember , Helen , our conversation the night but one before we left Staningley ? 'Yes , aunt . 
'That is nothing to the purpose . 
Is he a good man ? 'Yes in some respects . 
He has a good disposition . 
'Is he a man of principle ? 'Perhaps not , exactly but it is only for want of thought . 
'Well , now you have made him out to be deficient in both sense and principle , by your own confession 'Then , my sense and my principle are at his service . 
'That sounds presumptuous , Helen . 
And you have no right to call him a profligate , aunt he is nothing of the kind . 
'I don't believe a word of it . 
'You think , then , that he is a virtuous , well conducted young man ? 'I know nothing positive respecting his character . 
I only know that I have heard nothing definite against it nothing that could be proved , at least and till people can prove their slanderous accusations , I will not believe them . 
'Then I will save him from them . 
I will leave better men to those who only consider their own advantage . 
God grant me success ! Here the conversation ended , for at this juncture my uncle's voice was heard from his chamber , loudly calling upon my aunt to come to bed . 
He was in a bad humour that night for his gout was worse . 
, that in a very few days we departed and I saw no more of Mr. Huntingdon . 
I wonder if it will ? CHAPTER XVIII August th . 
This , at least , is the hope that I cherish , the fancy that lights me on my lonely way . 
But I think it is not wrong no , no there is a secret something an inward instinct that assures me I am right . 
'What gentlemen ? I asked when I heard it . 
A small party he had invited to shoot . 
His friend Mr. Wilmot was one , and my aunt's friend , Mr. Boarham , another . 
So he is safe , and I am sure of seeing him . 
I cannot express my joy . 
I find it very difficult to conceal it from my aunt but I don't wish to trouble her with my feelings till I know whether I ought to indulge them or not . 
But they are not coming till about the middle of the month . 
We are to have two lady visitors also Mr. Wilmot is to bring his niece and her cousin Milicent . 
They came the day before yesterday . 
The gentlemen are all gone out to shoot , and the ladies are with my aunt , at work in the drawing room . 
I have retired to the library , for I am very unhappy , and I want to be alone . 
Books cannot divert me so having opened my desk , I will try what may be done by detailing the cause of my uneasiness . 
This paper will serve instead of a confidential friend into whose ear I might pour forth the overflowings of my heart . 
First came Mr. Wilmot and the ladies . 
On returning to my window , I beheld another carriage at the door . 
Was it his ? No it was Mr. Boarham's plain dark chariot and there stood he upon the steps , carefully superintending the dislodging of his various boxes and packages . 
What a collection ! One would have thought he projected a visit of six months at least . 
A considerable time after , came Lord Lowborough in his barouche . 
He is a tall , thin , gloomy looking man , apparently between thirty and forty , and of a somewhat sickly , careworn aspect . 
At last , Mr. Huntingdon's light phaeton came bowling merrily up the lawn . 
I had but a transient glimpse of him for the moment it stopped , he sprang out over the side on to the portico steps , and disappeared into the house . 
'How will he greet me , I wonder ? said my bounding heart and , instead of advancing to meet him , I turned to the window to hide or subdue my emotion . 
But afterwards , when we were all again assembled in the drawing room , I was indemnified for so much suffering by a few delightful minutes of conversation with Mr. Huntingdon . 
But the pencil frequently leaves an impression upon cardboard that no amount of rubbing can efface . 
I was mistaken , however . 
'So then , thought I , 'he despises me , because he knows I love him . 
And the reflection made me so miserable I knew not what to do . 
But Mr. Huntingdon had lingered behind the rest . 
He was just at the foot of the stairs when I opened the door , and hearing my step in the hall though I could hardly hear it myself he instantly turned back . 
'Helen , is that you ? said he . 
'Why did you run away from us ? 'Good night , Mr. Huntingdon , said I , coldly , not choosing to answer the question . 
And I turned away to enter the drawing room . 
'But you'll shake hands , won't you ? said he , placing himself in the doorway before me . 
And he seized my hand and held it , much against my will . 
'Let me go , Mr. Huntingdon , said I. 'I want to get a candle . 
'The candle will keep , returned he . 
I made a desperate effort to free my hand from his grasp . 
'Why are you in such a hurry to leave me , Helen ? he said , with a smile of the most provoking self sufficiency . 
'You don't hate me , you know . 
'Yes , I do at this moment . 
It is Annabella Wilmot you hate , not me . 
'I have nothing to do with Annabella Wilmot , said I , burning with indignation . 
'But I have , you know , returned he , with peculiar emphasis . 
'That is nothing to me , sir , I retorted . 
'Go , then , you vixen ! he said but the instant he released my hand he had the audacity to put his arm round my neck , and kiss me . 
Trembling with anger and agitation , and I don't know what besides , I broke away , and got my candle , and rushed up stairs to my room . 
He would not have done so but for that hateful picture . 
And there he had it still in his possession , an eternal monument to his pride and my humiliation . 
It was but little sleep I got that night , and in the morning I rose perplexed and troubled with the thoughts of meeting him at breakfast . 
I knew not how it was to be done . 
An assumption of dignified , cold indifference would hardly do , after what he knew of my devotion to his face , at least . 
Yet something must be done to check his presumption I would not submit to be tyrannised over by those bright , laughing eyes . 
He was not , however , to be repelled by such acting as this . 
Not desirous of sharing Mr. Boarham's company for the whole of the morning , I betook myself to the library , and there brought forth my easel and began to paint . 
It was one I had taken great pains with , and I intended it to be my masterpiece , though it was somewhat presumptuous in the design . 
By the bright azure of the sky , and by the warm and brilliant lights and deep long shadows , I had endeavoured to convey the idea of a sunny morning . 
I had ventured to give more of the bright verdure of spring or early summer to the grass and foliage than is commonly attempted in painting . 
The scene represented was an open glade in a wood . 
I had scarcely settled to my work , which , however , wanted but a few touches to the finishing , when the sportsmen passed the window on their return from the stables . 
'Very pretty , i'faith , said he , after attentively regarding it for a few seconds 'and a very fitting study for a young lady . 
Spring just opening into summer morning just approaching noon girlhood just ripening into womanhood , and hope just verging on fruition . 
She's a sweet creature ! but why didn't you make her black hair ? 'I thought light hair would suit her better . 
You see I have made her blue eyed and plump , and fair and rosy . 
'Upon my word a very Hebe ! I should fall in love with her if I hadn't the artist before me . 
'And perhaps , suggested I , 'how tender and faithful she shall find him . 
'Perhaps , for there is no limit to the wild extravagance of Hope's imaginings at such an age . 
'Do you call that , then , one of her wild , extravagant delusions ? 'No my heart tells me it is not . 
'No , replied I , reddening with confusion and wrath . 
But my portfolio was on the table he took it up , and coolly sat down to examine its contents . 
Huntingdon , those are my unfinished sketches , cried I , 'and I never let any one see them . 
And I placed my hand on the portfolio to wrest it from him , but he maintained his hold , assuring me that he 'liked unfinished sketches of all things . 
But I was determined he should not keep it . 
Huntingdon , cried I , 'I insist upon having that back ! It is mine , and you have no right to take it . 
Give it me directly I'll never forgive you if you don't ! But the more vehemently I insisted , the more he aggravated my distress by his insulting , gleeful laugh . 
At length , however , he restored it to me , saying , 'Well , well , since you value it so much , I'll not deprive you of it . 
To show him how I valued it , I tore it in two and threw it into the fire . 
He was not prepared for this . 
We took a long ramble , and re entered the park just as the sportsmen were returning from their expedition . 
'Oh , very good ! was the reply 'if you don't value me , I must turn to somebody that will . 
My aunt observes the change , and though she has not inquired the cause or made any remark to me on the subject , I see it gives her pleasure . 
Miss Wilmot observes it , too , and triumphantly ascribes it to her own superior charms and blandishments but I am truly miserable more so than I like to acknowledge to myself . 
Pride refuses to aid me . 
It has brought me into the scrape , and will not help me out of it . 
I must lose him for ever , and Annabella may win him , and triumph as she will . 
She does not love him she thinks only of herself . 
She cannot appreciate the good that is in him she will neither see it , nor value it , nor cherish it . 
She will neither deplore his faults nor attempt their amendment , but rather aggravate them by her own . 
And I doubt whether she will not deceive him after all . 
If he observes her artful by play , it gives him no uneasiness , but rather adds new zest to his diversion by opposing a stimulating check to his otherwise too easy conquest . 
I am annoyed enough by their present persecutions without encouraging them further and even if I did it would have precious little effect upon him . 
Oh ! why can't I hate him ? I must be infatuated , or I should scorn to regret him as I do . 
But I must rally all the powers I have remaining , and try to tear him from my heart . 
CHAPTER XIX Twenty Second Night . 
What have I done ? and what will be the end of it ? I cannot calmly reflect upon it I cannot sleep . 
I must have recourse to my diary again I will commit it to paper to night , and see what I shall think of it to morrow . 
I went down to dinner resolving to be cheerful and well conducted , and kept my resolution very creditably , considering how my head ached and how internally wretched I felt . 
I suppose it is with sleeping and eating so little , and thinking so much , and being so continually out of humour . 
Milicent had asked for a little Scotch song , and I was just in the middle of it when they entered . 
The first thing Mr. Huntingdon did was to walk up to Annabella . 
'Now , Miss Wilmot , won't you give us some music to night ? said he . 
'Do now ! I know you will , when I tell you that I have been hungering and thirsting all day for the sound of your voice . 
Come ! the piano's vacant . 
It was , for I had quitted it immediately upon hearing his petition . 
I knew Annabella's musical talents were superior to mine , but that was no reason why I should be treated as a perfect nonentity . 
The time and the manner of his asking her appeared like a gratuitous insult to me and I could have wept with pure vexation . 
No wonder he should hunger and thirst to hear her sing . 
'There now , said she , playfully running her fingers over the keys when she had concluded the second song . 
And now , with my nerves already excited and half unstrung , I could not hear those words so sweetly warbled forth without some symptoms of emotion I was not able to suppress . 
Tears rose unbidden to my eyes , and I buried my face in the sofa pillow that they might flow unseen while I listened . 
The air was simple , sweet , and sad . 
O beautiful , and full of grace ! If thou hadst never met mine eye , I had not dreamed a living face Could fancied charms so far outvie . 
If I may ne'er behold again That form and face so dear to me , Nor hear thy voice , still would I fain Preserve , for aye , their memory . 
That voice , the magic of whose tone Can wake an echo in my breast , Creating feelings that , alone , Can make my tranced spirit blest . 
That laughing eye , whose sunny beam My memory would not cherish less And oh , that smile ! I whose joyous gleam No mortal languish can express . 
Adieu ! but let me cherish , still , The hope with which I cannot part . 
Contempt may wound , and coldness chill , But still it lingers in my heart . 
And who can tell but Heaven , at last , May answer all my thousand prayers , And bid the future pay the past With joy for anguish , smiles for tears . 
When it ceased , I longed for nothing so much as to be out of the room . 
Presently , however , the door was gently opened and someone entered the room . 
I trusted it was only a servant , and did not stir . 
'Are you sure it is nothing to me ? he returned 'can you swear that you were not thinking of me while you wept ? This was unendurable . 
I made an effort to rise , but he was kneeling on my dress . 
'Tell me , continued he 'I want to know , because if you were , I have something to say to you , and if not , I'll go . 
So tell me , Helen . 
'You're excessively impertinent , Mr. Huntingdon ! 'Not at all too pertinent , you mean . 
Silence again ? That means yes . 
Then let me add , that I cannot live without you , and if you answer No to this last question , you will drive me mad . 
Will you bestow yourself upon me ? you will ! he cried , nearly squeezing me to death in his arms . 
'No , no ! I exclaimed , struggling to free myself from him 'you must ask my uncle and aunt . 
'They won't refuse me , if you don't . 
'I'm not so sure of that my aunt dislikes you . 
'But you don't , Helen say you love me , and I'll go . 
'I wish you would go ! I replied . 
'I will , this instant , if you'll only say you love me . 
'You know I do , I answered . 
And again he caught me in his arms , and smothered me with kisses . 
But his confusion was only for a moment . 
Rallying in an instant , with the most enviable assurance , he began , 'I beg ten thousand pardons , Mrs. Maxwell ! Don't be too severe upon me . 
So let me implore you not to condemn me to eternal wretchedness if you favour my cause , I am safe for Mr. Maxwell , I am certain , can refuse you nothing . 
'We will talk of this to morrow , sir , said my aunt , coldly . 
'It is a subject that demands mature and serious deliberation . 
At present , you had better return to the drawing room . 
'Why , you see , Mrs. Maxwell , he began 'Pardon me , sir , said she , with dignity 'The company are inquiring for you in the other room . 
And she turned to me . 
'Then you must plead for me , Helen , said he , and at length withdrew . 
'You had better retire to your room , Helen , said my aunt , gravely . 
'I will discuss this matter with you , too , to morrow . 
'Don't be angry , aunt , said I. 'My dear , I am not angry , she replied 'I am surprised . 
They were not altogether the tears of sorrow , or of fear for her displeasure , but rather the outbreak of the general tumultuous excitement of my feelings . 
But my good aunt was touched at my agitation . 
I feel calmer now that I have written all this and I will go to bed , and try to win tired nature's sweet restorer . 
In the morning I rose , light and cheerful nay , intensely happy . 
It was a splendid morning and I went out to enjoy it , in a quiet ramble , in company with my own blissful thoughts . 
'Not yours yet ! said I , hastily swerving aside from this too presumptuous greeting . 
You will not easily obtain my aunt's consent . 
Don't you see she is prejudiced against you ? 'I do , dearest and you must tell me why , that I may best know how to combat her objections . 
'But it is not that , said I 'it is not money my aunt thinks about . 
She knows better than to value worldly wealth above its price . 
'What is it , then ? 'She wishes me to to marry none but a really good man . 
I'll come home sighing like a furnace , and full of the savour and unction of dear Mr. Blatant's discourse 'Mr . 
Leighton , said I , dryly . 
'Is Mr. Leighton a sweet preacher , Helen a dear , delightful , heavenly minded man ? 'He is a good man , Mr. Huntingdon . 
I wish I could say half as much for you . 
'Oh , I forgot , you are a saint , too . 
I crave your pardon , dearest but don't call me Mr. Huntingdon my name is Arthur . 
'I'll call you nothing for I'll have nothing at all to do with you if you talk in that way any more . 
If you really mean to deceive my aunt as you say , you are very wicked and if not , you are very wrong to jest on such a subject . 
'I stand corrected , said he , concluding his laugh with a sorrowful sigh . 
'Now , resumed he , after a momentary pause , 'let us talk about something else . 
And come nearer to me , Helen , and take my arm and then I'll let you alone . 
I can't be quiet while I see you walking there . 
I complied but said we must soon return to the house . 
'No one will be down to breakfast yet , for long enough , he answered . 
My father has entirely given me up to their care . 
'But would he sanction anything to which she thought proper to object ? 'No , I don't think he cares enough about me . 
I now insisted upon retracing our steps to the house but we walked slowly , and went on talking as we proceeded . 
'You judge him uncharitably , aunt , I know , said I. 'His very friends are not half so bad as you represent them . 
There is Walter Hargrave , Milicent's brother , for one he is but a little lower than the angels , if half she says of him is true . 
She is continually talking to me about him , and lauding his many virtues to the skies . 
'You will form a very inadequate estimate of a man's character , replied she , 'if you judge by what a fond sister says of him . 
The worst of them generally know how to hide their misdeeds from their sisters' eyes , and their mother's , too . 
'And there is Lord Lowborough , continued I , 'quite a decent man . 
'Who told you so ? Lord Lowborough is a desperate man . 
He has dissipated his fortune in gambling and other things , and is now seeking an heiress to retrieve it . 
'To be sure , my dear and the worse he is , I suppose , the more you long to deliver him from himself . 
'And thoughtlessness , pursued my aunt , 'may lead to every crime , and will but poorly excuse our errors in the sight of God . 
'Oh , Helen ! where did you learn all this ? 'In the Bible , aunt . 
I have searched it through , and found nearly thirty passages , all tending to support the same theory . 
I don't know the Greek , but I believe it strictly means for ages , and might signify either endless or long enduring . 
Every one attended the morning service , except my uncle , who hardly ever goes , and Mr. Wilmot , who stayed at home with him to enjoy a quiet game of cribbage . 
In the afternoon Miss Wilmot and Lord Lowborough likewise excused themselves from attending but Mr. Huntingdon vouchsafed to accompany us again . 
Whether it was to ingratiate himself with my aunt I cannot tell , but , if so , he certainly should have behaved better . 
I must confess , I did not like his conduct during service at all . 
Once , during the sermon , after attentively regarding Mr. Leighton for a few minutes , he suddenly produced his gold pencil case and snatched up a Bible . 
Just before dinner my uncle called me into the library for the discussion of a very important matter , which was dismissed in few words . 
'Very good ! cried he . 
'Now that's a good honest answer wonderful for a girl ! Well , I'll write to your father to morrow . 
He's sure to give his consent so you may look on the matter as settled . 
You'd have done a deal better if you'd taken Wilmot , I can tell you but that you won't believe . 
At your time of life , it's love that rules the roast at mine , it's solid , serviceable gold . 
'Well , be thankful , then , that you've wiser heads to think for you . 
'Stop , stop ! cried he 'we haven't mentioned the time yet . 
'Oh ! pooh , pooh ! never tell me that tale I know better , cried he and he persisted in his incredulity . 
Nevertheless , it is quite true . 
I am in no hurry at all . 
My father has given his consent , and the time is fixed for Christmas , by a sort of compromise between the respective advocates for hurry and delay . 
When I told Milicent of my engagement , she rather provoked me by her manner of talking it . 
'You are timid , Milicent but that's no fault of his . 
'And then his look , continued she . 
'People say he's handsome , and of course he is but I don't like that kind of beauty , and I wonder that you should . 
'Why so , pray ? 'Well , you know , I think there's nothing noble or lofty in his appearance . 
'In fact , you wonder that I can like any one so unlike the stilted heroes of romance . 
Well , give me my flesh and blood lover , and I'll leave all the Sir Herberts and Valentines to you if you can find them . 
'I don't want them , said she . 
'I'll be satisfied with flesh and blood too only the spirit must shine through and predominate . 
But don't you think Mr. Huntingdon's face is too red ? 'No ! cried I , indignantly . 
'It is not red at all . 
I hate a man to be red and white , like a painted doll , or all sickly white , or smoky black , or cadaverous yellow . 
'Well , tastes differ but I like pale or dark , replied she . 
'But , to tell you the truth , Helen , I had been deluding myself with the hope that you would one day be my sister . 
'Impossible , Milicent ! You think so , because you're his sister and , on that account , I'll forgive you but nobody else should so disparage Arthur Huntingdon to me with impunity . 
Miss Wilmot expressed her feelings on the subject almost as openly . 
'I don't want to be idolised , I answered 'but I am well assured that he loves me more than anybody else in the world as I do him . 
'Exactly , said she , with a nod . 
'What do you wish ? asked I , annoyed at the vindictive expression of her countenance . 
Mr. Huntingdon's acquaintances appear to be no better pleased with our approaching union than mine . 
But he crushed them all into his pocket , with a private laugh , and said nothing till the meal was concluded . 
There's not one kind wish for me , or one good word for you , among them all . 
'Bless you , no , murmured he . 
'It's all for love or the world well lost , with me . 
Let them go to where they belong , to speak politely . 
But if you saw how they abuse me , Helen , you would love me all the more for having ventured so much for your sake . 
He pulled out his crumpled letters . 
I thought he was going to show them to me , and told him I did not wish to see them . 
'I'm not going to show them to you , love , said he . 
'They're hardly fit for a lady's eyes the most part of them . 
'I'm vastly obliged to him , observed I. 'And so am I , said he . 
'Come , my lad ! said he . 
I declare , we old 'uns are the keenest sportsmen of the lot ! 'I'll show you what I can do to day , however , said my companion . 
'I'll murder your birds by wholesale , just for keeping me away from better company than either you or them . 
And so saying he departed and I saw no more of him till dinner . 
It seemed a weary time I wonder what I shall do without him . 
But these merry times are fast drawing to a close . 
In less than a fortnight the party break up , much to my sorrow , for every day I enjoy it more and more now that Messrs . 
What shall I do without him , I repeat ? CHAPTER XXII October th . 
My cup of sweets is not unmingled it is dashed with a bitterness that I cannot hide from myself , disguise it as I will . 
I cannot shut my eyes to Arthur's faults and the more I love him the more they trouble me . 
His very heart , that I trusted so , is , I fear , less warm and generous than I thought it . 
At least , he gave me a specimen of his character to day that seemed to merit a harder name than thoughtlessness . 
'Those two will get the start of us , Helen , if we don't look sharp , observed Huntingdon . 
'They'll make a match of it , as sure as can be . 
But he'll find himself in a fix when he's got her , I doubt . 
'And she'll find herself in a fix when she's got him , said I , 'if what I've heard of him is true . 
'Not a bit of it . 
'But is not he courting her for her fortune ? 'No , not he . 
No he's fairly in love . 
He thought he never could be again , but he's in for it once more . 
He was to have been married before , some two or three years ago but he lost his bride by losing his fortune . 
That's a mode of self torment I never was much addicted to . 
Lowborough was quite infatuated not willingly , but of necessity , he was always resolving to give it up , and always breaking his resolutions . 
At last , however , he came to a check . 
He made a large stake , which he determined should be the last , whether he lost or won . 
He had often so determined before , to be sure , and as often broken his determination and so it was this time . 
He lost and while his antagonist smilingly swept away the stakes , he turned chalky white , drew back in silence , and wiped his forehead . 
I was present at the time and while he stood with folded arms and eyes fixed on the ground , I knew well enough what was passing in his mind . 
Is it to be the last , Lowborough ? said I , stepping up to him . 
He then doubled his former stake , and challenged any one present to play against him . 
Lowborough glared fiercely at him , for Grimsby was almost as celebrated for his luck as he was for his ill fortune . 
However , they fell to work . 
You'd better try once more , said Grimsby , leaning across the table . 
And then he winked at me . 
I've nothing to try with , said the poor devil , with a ghastly smile . 
Oh , Huntingdon will lend you what you want , said the other . 
No you heard my oath , answered Lowborough , turning away in quiet despair . 
And I took him by the arm and led him out . 
Is it to be the last , Lowborough ? I asked , when I got him into the street . 
The last , he answered , somewhat against my expectation . 
Huntingdon , I'm ruined ! said he , taking the third glass from my hand he had drunk the others in dead silence . 
Not you , said I. You'll find a man can live without his money as merrily as a tortoise without its head , or a wasp without its body . 
But I'm in debt , said he deep in debt . 
And I can never , never get out of it . 
Well , what of that ? Many a better man than you has lived and died in debt and they can't put you in prison , you know , because you're a peer . 
And I handed him his fourth tumbler . 
But I hate to be in debt ! he shouted . 
I wasn't born for it , and I cannot bear it . 
What can't be cured must be endured , said I , beginning to mix the fifth . 
And then , I've lost my Caroline . 
And he began to snivel then , for the brandy had softened his heart . 
No matter , I answered , there are more Carolines in the world than one . 
There's only one for me , he replied , with a dolorous sigh . 
I wish to God I could sell it to pay my debts , he muttered . 
And then , said Grimsby , who had just come in , you can try again , you know . 
I would have more than one chance , if I were you . 
I won't , I tell you ! shouted he . 
And he started up , and left the room walking rather unsteadily , for the liquor had got into his head . 
He was not so much used to it then , but after that he took to it kindly to solace his cares . 
'Then , they were demons themselves , cried I , unable to contain my indignation . 
'And you , Mr. Huntingdon , it seems , were the first to tempt him . 
'Well , what could we do ? replied he , deprecatingly . 
Even Grimsby could chuckle over his odd sayings they delighted him far more than my merry jests , or Hattersley's riotous mirth . 
A speech , a speech ! shouted we . 
We'd better stop while we can . 
Just so ! cried Hattersley Stop , poor sinner , stop and think Before you further go , No longer sport upon the brink Of everlasting woe . 
Exactly ! replied his lordship , with the utmost gravity . 
Taste it , suggested I. This is hell broth ! he exclaimed . 
I renounce it for ever ! And he threw it out into the middle of the table . 
Fill again ! said I , handing him the bottle and let us drink to your renunciation . 
It's rank poison , said he , grasping the bottle by the neck , and I forswear it ! I've given up gambling , and I'll give up this too . 
He was on the point of deliberately pouring the whole contents of the bottle on to the table , but Hargrave wrested it from him . 
On you be the curse , then ! said he . 
And , backing from the room , he shouted , Farewell , ye tempters ! and vanished amid shouts of laughter and applause . 
And he folded his arms , and leant back in his chair so we let him be . 
He made me a sign to replenish , and quietly pushed up the bottle . 
'saved my skull , and prevented the glass from breaking , till it reached the table . 
'After that , he continued , 'Lowborough kept aloof from us a week or two longer . 
But some of our members protested against this conduct . 
I saw by his face that he was suffering from the effects of an overdose of his insidious comforter but nobody spoke to him , and he spoke to nobody . 
I won't I won't ! So I handed them down again to the owners but I saw that he followed them with a glare of hungry regret as they departed . 
The consequence of this imprudence was something like an apoplectic fit , followed by a rather severe brain fever 'And what did you think of yourself , sir ? said I , quickly . 
'Of course , I was very penitent , he replied . 
I value my comfort far too much . 
'And did Lord Lowborough profit by your advice ? I asked . 
'Why , yes , in a manner . 
What , are you going to shoot yourself ? said I. No I'm going to reform . 
Oh , that's nothing new ! You've been going to reform these twelve months and more . 
Yes , but you wouldn't let me and I was such a fool I couldn't live without you . 
But now I see what it is that keeps me back , and what's wanted to save me and I'd compass sea and land to get it only I'm afraid there's no chance . 
And he sighed as if his heart would break . 
What is it , Lowborough ? said I , thinking he was fairly cracked at last . 
A wife , he answered for I can't live alone , because my own mind distracts me , and I can't live with you , because you take the devil's part against me . 
Who I ? Yes all of you do and you more than any of them , you know . 
, I might hope but as it is , Huntingdon , do you think anybody would take me ruined and wretched as I am ? Yes , certainly . 
Who ? Why , any neglected old maid , fast sinking in despair , would be delighted to No , no , said he it must be somebody that I can love . 
Why , you just said you never could be in love again ! Well , love is not the word but somebody that I can like . 
I'll search all England through , at all events ! he cried , with a sudden burst of hope , or desperation . 
Succeed or fail , it will be better than rushing headlong to destruction at that d d club so farewell to it and you . 
The young ladies had ceased to be afraid of him , and were beginning to think him quite interesting but the mammas were still unrelenting . 
It was about this time , Helen , that my good angel brought me into conjunction with you and then I had eyes and ears for nobody else . 
In a word , as I told you , he is fairly besotted . 
Last night he came to me brimful of his new found felicity Huntingdon , I am not a castaway ! said he , seizing my hand and squeezing it like a vice . 
She is the most generous , high minded being that can be conceived of . 
She will save me , body and soul , from destruction . 
Already , she has ennobled me in my own estimation , and made me three times better , wiser , greater than I was . 
'Then you ought to tell him so . 
'Well , Mr. Huntingdon , I don't know what you see so amazingly diverting in the matter I see nothing to laugh at . 
'I'm laughing at you , just now , love , said he , redoubling his machinations . 
Arthur was soon at my side again but not disposed to talk to him , I broke into a gallop . 
He did the same and we did not slacken our pace till we came up with Miss Wilmot and Lord Lowborough , which was within half a mile of the park gates . 
'I have nothing to forgive , said I. 'You have not injured me . 
'No , darling God forbid that I should ! but you are angry because it was to me that Annabella confessed her lack of esteem for her lover . 
'I tell you , Helen , it would break his heart it would be the death of him besides being a scandalous trick to poor Annabella . 
There is no help for him now he is past praying for . 
So now , my angel , I hope I have made out a clear case , and fully convinced you that I cannot make the atonement you require . 
What other requisition have you to make ? Speak , and I will gladly obey . 
'I will do my utmost , said he , 'to remember and perform the injunctions of my angel monitress and after kissing both my gloved hands , he let me go . 
'Lord Lowborough has proposed , and I have been graciously pleased to accept him . 
Don't you envy me , dear ? 'No , love , said I 'or him either , I mentally added . 
'And do you like him , Annabella ? 'Like him ! yes , to be sure over head and ears in love ! 'Well , I hope you'll make him a good wife . 
'Thank you , my dear ! And what besides do you hope ? 'I hope you will both love each other , and both be happy . 
'Thanks and I hope you will make a very good wife to Mr. Huntingdon ! said she , with a queenly bow , and retired . 
'Oh , Miss ! how could you say so to her ! cried Rachel . 
'Say what ? replied I. 'Why , that you hoped she would make him a good wife . 
I never heard such a thing ! 'Because I do hope it , or rather , I wish it she's almost past hope . 
'Well , said she , 'I'm sure I hope he'll make her a good husband . 
They tell queer things about him downstairs . 
They were saying 'I know , Rachel . 
I've heard all about him but he's reformed now . 
And they have no business to tell tales about their masters . 
'No , mum or else , they have said some things about Mr. Huntingdon too . 
'I won't hear them , Rachel they tell lies . 
'Yes , mum , said she , quietly , as she went on arranging my hair . 
'Do you believe them , Rachel ? I asked , after a short pause . 
'No , Miss , not all . 
But I think , if I was you , Miss Helen , I'd look very well before I leaped . 
I do believe a young lady can't be too careful who she marries . 
'Of course not , said I 'but be quick , will you , Rachel ? I want to be dressed . 
It was not for Lord Lowborough it was not for Annabella it was not for myself it was for Arthur Huntingdon that they rose . 
They are gone , and he is gone . 
We are to be parted for more than two months , above ten weeks ! a long , long time to live and not to see him . 
Well , I think I shall always have plenty to say . 
I have had several letters from Arthur already . 
I cannot get him to write or speak in real , solid earnest . 
I don't much mind it now , but if it be always so , what shall I do with the serious part of myself ? CHAPTER XXIII Feb . 
Early this morning Arthur mounted his hunter and set off in high glee to meet the hounds . 
He will be away all day , and so I will amuse myself with my neglected diary , if I can give that name to such an irregular composition . 
It is exactly four months since I opened it last . 
I am married now , and settled down as Mrs. Huntingdon of Grassdale Manor . 
I have had eight weeks' experience of matrimony . 
He is very fond of me , almost too fond . 
I could do with less caressing and more rationality . 
So let me dismiss that thought at once . 
The first instance he gave was on the occasion of our bridal tour . 
As for Paris , we only just touched at that , and he would not give me time to see one tenth of the beauties and interesting objects of Rome . 
'Helen , said he , with unusual gravity , 'I am not quite satisfied with you . 
I desired to know what was wrong . 
'But will you promise to reform if I tell you ? 'Yes , if I can , and without offending a higher authority . 
'Ah ! there it is , you see you don't love me with all your heart . 
pray tell me what I have done or said amiss . 
'It is nothing you have done or said it is something that you are you are too religious . 
To my thinking , a woman's religion ought not to lessen her devotion to her earthly lord . 
She should have enough to purify and etherealise her soul , but not enough to refine away her heart , and raise her above all human sympathies . 
'I will give my whole heart and soul to my Maker if I can , I answered , 'and not one atom more of it to you than He allows . 
'Don't be so hard upon me , Helen and don't pinch my arm so you are squeezing your fingers into the bone . 
I should rejoice to see you at any time so deeply absorbed in your devotions that you had not a single thought to spare for me . 
But , indeed , I should lose nothing by the change , for the more you loved your God the more deep and pure and true would be your love to me . 
At this he only laughed and kissed my hand , calling me a sweet enthusiast . 
Of him to whom less is given , less will be required , but our utmost exertions are required of us all . 
I should never expect to see you a devotee , but it is quite possible to be a good Christian without ceasing to be a happy , merry hearted man . 
'Well , but , Helen , I'm sure I've been very good these last few weeks . 
And I don't and won't complain . 
I do and will love him still and I do not and will not regret that I have linked my fate with his . 
We have had a downright quarrel . 
The particulars are as follows Arthur had told me , at different intervals , the whole story of his intrigue with Lady F , which I would not believe before . 
But he defended her by saying that she had a doting old husband , whom it was impossible to love . 
'Then why did she marry him ? said I. 'For his money , was the reply . 
'Then that was another crime , and her solemn promise to love and honour him was another , that only increased the enormity of the last . 
'You are too severe upon the poor lady , laughed he . 
'If you had told me these things before , Arthur , I never should have given you the chance . 
'Wouldn't you , my darling ? 'Most certainly not ! He laughed incredulously . 
'Helen , said he , more gravely , 'do you know that if I believed you now I should be very angry ? but thank heaven I don't . 
Without another word I left the room and locked myself up in my own chamber . 
In about half an hour he came to the door , and first he tried the handle , then he knocked . 
'Won't you let me in , Helen ? said he . 
'No you have displeased me , I replied , 'and I don't want to see your face or hear your voice again till the morning . 
He paused a moment as if dumfounded or uncertain how to answer such a speech , and then turned and walked away . 
Soon after ten o'clock I heard him come up again , but he passed my door and went straight to his own dressing room , where he shut himself in for the night . 
I was rather anxious to see how he would meet me in the morning , and not a little disappointed to behold him enter the breakfast room with a careless smile . 
'Are you cross still , Helen ? said he , approaching as if to salute me . 
I coldly turned to the table , and began to pour out the coffee , observing that he was rather late . 
While taking his coffee he muttered it was 'd d cold . 
'You should not have left it so long , said I. He made no answer , and the meal was concluded in silence . 
It was a relief to both when the letter bag was brought in . 
It contained upon examination a newspaper and one or two letters for him , and a couple of letters for me , which he tossed across the table without a remark . 
One was from my brother , the other from Milicent Hargrave , who is now in London with her mother . 
The paper he set before him , and pretended to be deeply absorbed in its contents during the remainder of breakfast , and a considerable time after . 
Meanwhile , poor Arthur was sadly at a loss for something to amuse him or to occupy his time . 
He wanted to appear as busy and as unconcerned as I did . 
But I managed to preserve an undisturbed though grave serenity throughout the day . 
But his favourite cocker , Dash , that had been lying at my feet , took the liberty of jumping upon him and beginning to lick his face . 
He struck it off with a smart blow , and the poor dog squeaked and ran cowering back to me . 
When he woke up , about half an hour after , he called it to him again , but Dash only looked sheepish and wagged the tip of his tail . 
He called again more sharply , but Dash only clung the closer to me , and licked my hand , as if imploring protection . 
Enraged at this , his master snatched up a heavy book and hurled it at his head . 
The poor dog set up a piteous outcry , and ran to the door . 
I let him out , and then quietly took up the book . 
'Give that book to me , said Arthur , in no very courteous tone . 
I gave it to him . 
'Why did you let the dog out ? he asked 'you knew I wanted him . 
Then followed eight or ten minutes of silence , during the greater part of which , I believe , he was staring at me . 
At last his patience was tired out . 
'What is that book , Helen ? he exclaimed . 
'Is it interesting ? 'Yes , very . 
But he did not speak again till I rose to make the tea , and then it was only to say he should not take any . 
'Helen ! cried he , the moment I had left the room . 
I turned back , and stood awaiting his commands . 
'What do you want , Arthur ? I said at length . 
'Go ! I went , but hearing him mutter something as I was closing the door , I turned again . 
It sounded very like 'confounded slut , but I was quite willing it should be something else . 
'Were you speaking , Arthur ? I asked . 
'No , was the answer , and I shut the door and departed . 
I saw nothing more of him till the following morning at breakfast , when he came down a full hour after the usual time . 
'You're very late , was my morning's salutation . 
'You needn't have waited for me , was his and he walked up to the window again . 
It was just such weather as yesterday . 
'Oh , this confounded rain ! he muttered . 
The letter bag was already there , waiting to be opened . 
He unlocked it and examined the contents , but said nothing about them . 
'Is there anything for me ? I asked . 
He opened the newspaper and began to read . 
'You'd better take your coffee , suggested I 'it will be cold again . 
'You may go , said he , 'if you've done I don't want you . 
I rose and withdrew to the next room , wondering if we were to have another such miserable day as yesterday , and wishing intensely for an end of these mutually inflicted torments . 
Shortly after I heard him ring the bell and give some orders about his wardrobe that sounded as if he meditated a long journey . 
But the question is , How am I to alter his purpose ? Well , I will wait awhile , and see if he mentions it . 
I waited most anxiously , from hour to hour but not a word was spoken , on that or any other subject , to me . 
He whistled and talked to his dogs , and wandered from room to room , much the same as on the previous day . 
'Well , tell him I'll think about it , he added , after a moment's reflection . 
'Where do you want to go , Arthur ? said I. 'To London , replied he , gravely . 
'What for ? I asked . 
'Because I cannot be happy here . 
'Why not ? 'Because my wife doesn't love me . 
'She would love you with all her heart , if you deserved it . 
He now turned round , and stood facing me , with his back to the fire . 
'Come , then , Helen , are you going to be a good girl ? said he . 
This sounded rather too arrogant , and the smile that accompanied it did not please me . 
I therefore hesitated to reply . 
Perhaps my former answer had implied too much he had heard my voice falter , and might have seen me brush away a tear . 
'Are you going to forgive me , Helen ? he resumed , more humbly . 
'Are you penitent ? I replied , stepping up to him and smiling in his face . 
He fervently embraced me , and though I shed a torrent of tears , I think I never was happier in my life than at that moment . 
'Then you won't go to London , Arthur ? I said , when the first transport of tears and kisses had subsided . 
'No , love , unless you will go with me . 
'I will , gladly , I answered , 'if you think the change will amuse you , and if you will put off the journey till next week . 
So we are to go to London on Monday , the day after to morrow . 
He has never once attempted to annoy me since , by the most distant allusion to Lady F , or any of those disagreeable reminiscences of his former life . 
I wish I could blot them from my memory , or else get him to regard such matters in the same light as I do . 
Well ! it is something , however , to have made him see that they are not fit subjects for a conjugal jest . 
He may see further some time . 
I will put no limits to my hopes and , in spite of my aunt's forebodings and my own unspoken fears , I trust we shall be happy yet . 
He seemed bent upon displaying me to his friends and acquaintances in particular , and the public in general , on every possible occasion , and to the greatest possible advantage . 
At last , he suddenly discovered that the London air did not agree with me , and I was languishing for my country home , and must immediately return to Grassdale . 
I laughingly assured him that the case was not so urgent as he appeared to think it , but I was quite willing to go home if he was . 
He replied that he should be obliged to remain a week or two longer , as he had business that required his presence . 
'But , my love , I cannot let you stay . 
Tell me what it is and I will be your taskmaster , instead of being a hindrance . 
'No , no , persisted the impracticable creature 'you must go home , Helen I must have the satisfaction of knowing that you are safe and well , though far away . 
Your bright eyes are faded , and that tender , delicate bloom has quite deserted your cheek . 
'That is only with too much gaiety and fatigue . 
And remember your situation , dearest Helen on your health , you know , depends the health , if not the life , of our future hope . 
'Then you really wish to get rid of me ? 'Positively , I do and I will take you down myself to Grassdale , and then return . 
I shall not be absent above a week or fortnight at most . 
'But if I must go , I will go alone if you must stay , it is needless to waste your time in the journey there and back . 
But he did not like the idea of sending me alone . 
Still less can I now comprehend how it should keep him a month , for it is nearly that time since I left him , and no signs of his return as yet . 
In every letter he promises to be with me in a few days , and every time deceives me , or deceives himself . 
His excuses are vague and insufficient . 
I cannot doubt that he has got among his former companions again . 
Oh , why did I leave him ! I wish I do intensely wish he would return ! June th . 
No Arthur yet and for many days I have been looking and longing in vain for a letter . 
But what is he , doing what is it that keeps him away ? It is this ever recurring question , and the horrible suggestions it raises , that distract me . 
My last bitter letter has wrung from him an answer at last , and a rather longer one than usual but still I don't know what to make of it . 
Well , said I , I know somebody that will suit you to a tee , if you don't care for money , and that's Hargrave's sister , Milicent . 
He desired to be introduced to her forthwith , for he said he had plenty of the needful himself , or should have when his old governor chose to quit the stage . 
So you see , Helen , I have managed pretty well , both for your friend and mine . 
Poor Milicent ! But I cannot imagine she will ever be led to accept such a suitor one so repugnant to all her ideas of a man to be honoured and loved . 
Alas ! I was mistaken . 
I have got a long letter from her this morning , telling me she is already engaged , and expects to be married before the close of the month . 
'I hardly know what to say about it , she writes , 'or what to think . 
To tell you the truth , Helen , I don't like the thoughts of it at all . 
Then why have you accepted him ? you will ask and I didn't know I had accepted him but mamma tells me I have , and he seems to think so too . 
And next time I saw him , he accosted me in all confidence as his affianced bride , and immediately began to settle matters with mamma . 
I had not courage to contradict them then , and how can I do it now ? I cannot they would think me mad . 
Besides , mamma is so delighted with the idea of the match she thinks she has managed so well for me and I cannot bear to disappoint her . 
I do object sometimes , and tell her what I feel , but you don't know how she talks . 
It is not my idea of being well married , but she means it all for the best . 
Even Walter is pleased at the prospect , and when I confessed my reluctance to him , he said it was all childish nonsense . 
Do you think it nonsense , Helen ? I should not care if I could see any prospect of being able to love and admire him , but I can't . 
There is nothing about him to hang one's esteem and affection upon he is so diametrically opposite to what I imagined my husband should be . 
Do write to me , and say all you can to encourage me . 
He may be all this , but I don't know him . 
I know only the exterior , and what , I trust , is the worst part of him . 
She concludes with 'Good by , dear Helen . 
I am waiting anxiously for your advice but mind you let it be all on the right side . 
The week is over , and he is not come . 
All the sweet summer is passing away without one breath of pleasure to me or benefit to him . 
Thank heaven , he is come at last ! But how altered ! flushed and feverish , listless and languid , his beauty strangely diminished , his vigour and vivacity quite departed . 
I have not upbraided him by word or look I have not even asked him what he has been doing . 
My forbearance pleases him touches him even , I am inclined to think . 
He says he is glad to be home again , and God knows how glad I am to get him back , even as he is . 
He lies on the sofa , nearly all day long and I play and sing to him for hours together . 
I know he does not deserve it and I fear I am spoiling him but this once , I will forgive him , freely and entirely . 
I will shame him into virtue if I can , and I will never let him leave me again . 
He is pleased with my attentions it may be , grateful for them . 
He likes to have me near him and though he is peevish and testy with his servants and his dogs , he is gentle and kind to me . 
He smiled , but not insultingly . 
, 'and what more could you desire ? 'Only , Arthur , that you would love yourself as truly and as faithfully as you are loved by me . 
'That would be hard , indeed ! he replied , tenderly squeezing my hand . 
I lay them both to the charge of his harsh yet careless father , and his madly indulgent mother . 
If ever I am a mother I will zealously strive against this crime of over indulgence . 
I can hardly give it a milder name when I think of the evils it brings . 
But he says it is dull work shooting alone he must have a friend or two to help him . 
It is a hateful idea , but I cannot believe it is a false one . 
You're not afraid of her , are you , Helen ? he asked , with a mischievous twinkle in his eyes . 
'Of course not , I answered 'why should I ? And who besides ? 'Hargrave for one . 
You'll not object to Grimsby ? 'I hate him but , however , if you wish it , I'll try to endure his presence for a while . 
'All a prejudice , Helen , a mere woman's antipathy . 
'No I have solid grounds for my dislike . 
And is that all ? 'Why , yes , I think so . 
Hattersley will be too busy billing and cooing , with his bride to have much time to spare for guns and dogs at present , he replied . 
And that reminds me , that I have had several letters from Milicent since her marriage , and that she either is , or pretends to be , quite reconciled to her lot . 
Our guests arrived about three weeks ago . 
But there is room for improvement still . 
He adores her still , and would go to the world's end to please her . 
But she has a way of tormenting him , in which I am a fellow sufferer , or might be , if I chose to regard myself as such . 
'Why , Helen , you are as jealous as he is ! cried he , laughing still more and I found it impossible to convince him of his mistake . 
So , from that time , I have carefully refrained from any notice of the subject whatever , and left Lord Lowborough to take care of himself . 
I can amuse and please him with my simple songs , but not delight him thus . 
Yesterday , we all went to the Grove , Mr. Hargrave's much neglected home . 
The entertainment was very well got up but I could not help thinking about the cost of it all the time . 
I don't like Mrs. Hargrave she is a hard , pretentious , worldly minded woman . 
This is a harsh judgment to form of 'dear , noble minded , generous hearted Walter , but I fear it is too just . 
I looked at Lord Lowborough . 
He was at the other end of the room , talking with Messrs . 
Hargrave and Grimsby but I saw him dart towards his lady and his host a quick , impatient glance , expressive of intense disquietude , at which Grimsby smiled . 
On raising his eyes , he beheld me , and dropped them again , confounded and dismayed . 
She saw me too , and confronted me with a look of hard defiance . 
I laid the music on the piano , and retired . 
I felt ill but I did not leave the room happily , it was getting late , and could not be long before the company dispersed . 
I went to the fire , and leant my head against the chimney piece . 
In a minute or two , some one asked me if I felt unwell . 
I did not answer indeed , at the time , I knew not what was said but I mechanically looked up , and saw Mr. Hargrave standing beside me on the rug . 
'Shall I get you a glass of wine ? said he . 
'No , thank you , I replied and , turning from him , I looked round . 
I seated myself in the nearest chair and Mr. Hargrave , finding his services were not desired , judiciously withdrew . 
Shortly after , the company broke up , and , as the guests were retiring to their rooms , Arthur approached me , smiling with the utmost assurance . 
'Are you very angry , Helen ? murmured he . 
'This is no jest , Arthur , said I , seriously , but as calmly as I could 'unless you think it a jest to lose my affection for ever . 
Leaving him thus employed , I took my candle , and , slipping quietly from the room , hastened up stairs as fast as I could . 
'No , no , by heaven , you sha'n't escape me so ! he cried . 
'Let me go , then , I murmured and immediately he released me and it was well he did , for I was really in a passion . 
I sank into the easy chair and endeavoured to compose myself , for I wanted to speak to him calmly . 
And I gravely extended it towards him but closed it upon his with an energy that seemed to disprove the assertion , and made him smile . 
'You needn't smile , sir , said I , still tightening my grasp , and looking steadfastly on him till he almost quailed before me . 
'You may think it all very fine , Mr. Huntingdon , to amuse yourself with rousing my jealousy but take care you don't rouse my hate instead . 
And when you have once extinguished my love , you will find it no easy matter to kindle it again . 
'Well , Helen , I won't repeat the offence . 
But I meant nothing by it , I assure you . 
I had taken too much wine , and I was scarcely myself at the time . 
'You often take too much and that is another practice I detest . 
He looked up astonished at my warmth . 
But the whole system of your conduct to Lady Lowborough is not referable to wine and this night you knew perfectly well what you were doing . 
'If you had not seen me , he muttered , fixing his eyes on the carpet , 'it would have done no harm . 
My heart felt ready to burst but I resolutely swallowed back my emotion , and answered calmly , 'You think not ? 'No , replied he , boldly . 
'After all , what have I done ? It's nothing except as you choose to make it a subject of accusation and distress . 
'You promised to honour and obey me , and now you attempt to hector over me , and threaten and accuse me , and call me worse than a highwayman . 
If it were not for your situation , Helen , I would not submit to it so tamely . 
I won't be dictated to by a woman , though she be my wife . 
'What will you do then ? Will you go on till I hate you , and then accuse me of breaking my vows ? He was silent a . 
moment , and then replied 'You never will hate me . 
Returning and resuming his former position at my feet , he repeated more vehemently 'You cannot hate me as long as I love you . 
She is a daughter of earth you are an angel of heaven only be not too austere in your divinity , and remember that I am a poor , fallible mortal . 
Come now , Helen won't you forgive me ? he said , gently taking my hand , and looking up with an innocent smile . 
'If I do , you will repeat the offence . 
'I swear by 'Don't swear I'll believe your word as well as your oath . 
I wish I could have confidence in either . 
'Try me , then , Helen only trust and pardon me this once , and you shall see ! Come , I am in hell's torments till you speak the word . 
I did not speak it , but I put my hand on his shoulder and kissed his forehead , and then burst into tears . 
He embraced me tenderly and we have been good friends ever since . 
He has been decently temperate at table , and well conducted towards Lady Lowborough . 
Next time Mrs. Hargrave calls I shall hail her advent as quite a relief . 
I have a good mind to ask Arthur's leave to invite the old lady to stay with us till our guests depart . 
We sat silent for two or three minutes . 
She was busy with her work , and I was running over the columns of a paper from which I had extracted all the pith some twenty minutes before . 
It was a moment of painful embarrassment to me , and I thought it must be infinitely more so to her but it seems I was mistaken . 
'No , replied I , 'and never will be so again , I trust . 
'You gave him a curtain lecture , did you ? 'No ! but I told him I disliked such conduct , and he promised me not to repeat it . 
'I thought he looked rather subdued this morning , she continued 'and you , Helen ? you've been weeping , I see that's our grand resource , you know . 
But doesn't it make your eyes smart ? and do you always find it to answer ? 'I never cry for effect nor can I conceive how any one can . 
'Well , I don't know I never had occasion to try it but I think if Lowborough were to commit such improprieties , I'd make him cry . 
I don't wonder at your being angry , for I'm sure I'd give my husband a lesson he would not soon forget for a lighter offence than that . 
But then he never will do anything of the kind for I keep him in too good order for that . 
'Are you sure you don't arrogate too much of the credit to yourself . 
Lord Lowborough was quite as remarkable for his abstemiousness for some time before you married him , as he is now , I have heard . 
'Oh , about the wine you mean yes , he's safe enough for that . 
And as to looking askance to another woman , he's safe enough for that too , while I live , for he worships the very ground I tread on . 
But are you sure your darling Huntingdon deserves all the love you give to him ? I knew not what to answer to this . 
I was burning with anger but I suppressed all outward manifestations of it , and only bit my lip and pretended to arrange my work . 
'At any rate , resumed she , pursuing her advantage , 'you can console yourself with the assurance that you are worthy of all the love he gives to you . 
'You flatter me , said I 'but , at least , I can try to be worthy of it . 
And then I turned the conversation . 
Last Christmas I was a bride , with a heart overflowing with present bliss , and full of ardent hopes for the future , though not unmingled with foreboding fears . 
God has sent me a soul to educate for heaven , and give me a new and calmer bliss , and stronger hopes to comfort me . 
My little Arthur lives and thrives . 
He has won his father's heart at last and now my constant terror is , lest he should be ruined by that father's thoughtless indulgence . 
But I must beware of my own weakness too , for I never knew till now how strong are a parent's temptations to spoil an only child . 
I have but little in my husband . 
We have now been full two years united the 'romance' of our attachment must be worn away . 
And , if so , I can bear it well as well , at least , as I have borne it hitherto . 
Early in spring he announced his intention of going to London his affairs there demanded his attendance , he said , and he could refuse it no longer . 
He expressed his regret at having to leave me , but hoped I would amuse myself with the baby till he returned . 
'But why leave me ? I said . 
'I can go with you I can be ready at any time . 
I proposed separate apartments but it would not do . 
'The truth is , Arthur , I said at last , 'you are weary of my company , and determined not to have me with you . 
You might as well have said so at once . 
He denied it but I immediately left the room , and flew to the nursery , to hide my feelings , if I could not soothe them , there . 
He laughed at my anxiety , but assured me there was no cause for it , and promised to attend to my advice . 
'Pooh , pooh , you silly girl ! Do you think I can't take care of myself ? 'You didn't last time . 
And did he keep his promise ? No and henceforth I can never trust his word . 
Bitter , bitter confession ! Tears blind me while I write . 
It was early in March that he went , and he did not return till July . 
But still , when I omitted writing , he complained of my neglect . 
CHAPTER XXIX Those were four miserable months , alternating between intense anxiety , despair , and indignation , pity for him and pity for myself . 
But to return to Mr. Hargrave . 
He saluted me with a very fine compliment , delicately worded , and modestly delivered withal , which he had doubtless concocted as he rode along . 
'She is very kind , I answered , 'but I am not alone , you see and those whose time is fully occupied seldom complain of solitude . 
'Will you not come to morrow , then ? She will be sadly disappointed if you refuse . 
I did not relish being thus compassionated for my loneliness but , however , I promised to come . 
'What a sweet evening this is ! observed he , looking round upon the sunny park , with its imposing swell and slope , its placid water , and majestic clumps of trees . 
'Not lately , I replied . 
'I thought not , he muttered , as if to himself , looking thoughtfully on the ground . 
'Are you not lately returned from London ? I asked . 
'And did you see him there ? 'Yes I saw him . 
He here looked up and pointed the sentence with a serious bow to me . 
I suppose my face was crimson . 
Their tastes and occupations are similar to his , and I don't see why his conduct should awaken either their indignation or surprise . 
'You wrong me cruelly , answered he . 
'I have shared but little of Mr. Huntingdon's society for the last few weeks and as for his tastes and occupations , they are quite beyond me lonely wanderer as I am . 
'Am I then a stranger ? said he in a sorrowful tone . 
'Have you then forgotten the six or seven weeks I spent under your roof last autumn ? I have not forgotten them . 
'If you knew more of me , you would not think it , or if you did you would not say it , and expect me to be flattered by the compliment . 
I stepped backward as I spoke . 
He saw that I wished the conversation to end and immediately taking the hint , he gravely bowed , wished me good evening , and turned his horse towards the road . 
He appeared grieved and hurt at my unkind reception of his sympathising overtures . 
Rachel had moved on , during our conversation , to some yards' distance . 
He rode up to her , and asked to see the child . 
'Are you fond of children , Mr. Hargrave ? said I , a little softened towards him . 
'Not in general , he replied , 'but that is such a sweet child , and so like its mother , he added in a lower tone . 
'You are mistaken there it is its father it resembles . 
'Am I not right , nurse ? said he , appealing to Rachel . 
'I think , sir , there's a bit of both , she replied . 
He departed and Rachel pronounced him a very nice gentleman . 
I had still my doubts on the subject . 
In the course of the following six weeks I met him several times , but always , save once , in company with his mother , or his sister , or both . 
When I called on them , he always happened to be at home , and , when they called on me , it was always he that drove them over in the phaeton . 
His mother , evidently , was quite delighted with his dutiful attentions and newly acquired domestic habits . 
'It is , replied I and then I asked after his mother and sister . 
He politely answered my inquiries , and then returned again to the subject I wished to avoid though with a degree of timidity that witnessed his fear to offend . 
'You have not heard from Huntingdon lately ? he said . 
'Not this week , I replied . 
Not these three weeks , I might have said . 
'I had a letter from him this morning . 
I wish it were such a one as I could show to his lady . 
'He tells me so every time he writes . 
'Indeed ! well , it is like him . 
But to me he always avowed it his intention to stay till the present month . 
It struck me like a blow , this proof of premeditated transgression and systematic disregard of truth . 
'It is only of a piece with the rest of his conduct , observed Mr. Hargrave , thoughtfully regarding me , and reading , I suppose , my feelings in my face . 
'Then he is really coming next week ? said I , after a pause . 
'You may rely upon it , if the assurance can give you any pleasure . 
And is it possible , Mrs. Huntingdon , that you can rejoice at his return ? he exclaimed , attentively perusing my features again . 
'Of course , Mr. Hargrave is he not my husband ? 'Oh , Huntingdon you know not what you slight ! he passionately murmured . 
I took up my baby , and , wishing him good morning , departed , to indulge my thoughts unscrutinized , within the sanctum of my home . 
CHAPTER XXX On the following morning I received a few lines from him myself , confirming Hargrave's intimations respecting his approaching return . 
And he did come next week , but in a condition of body and mind even worse than before . 
I did not , however , intend to pass over his derelictions this time without a remark I found it would not do . 
But the first day he was weary with his journey , and I was glad to get him back I would not upbraid him then I would wait till to morrow . 
Next morning he was weary still I would wait a little longer . 
'It is the same cook as we had before you went , Arthur , said I. 'You were generally pretty well satisfied with her then . 
'You must have been letting her get into slovenly habits , then , while I was away . 
It is enough to poison one , eating such a disgusting mess ! And he pettishly pushed away his plate , and leant back despairingly in his chair . 
'I think it is you that are changed , not she , said I , but with the utmost gentleness , for I did not wish to irritate him . 
'Be quick , Benson do have done with that infernal clatter ! cried his master . 
The poor man turned pale , and visibly trembled as he stooped to pick up the fragments . 
'He couldn't help it , Arthur , said I 'the carpet caught his foot , and there's no great harm done . 
Never mind the pieces now , Benson you can clear them away afterwards . 
Glad to be released , Benson expeditiously set out the dessert and withdrew . 
'And why shouldn't I have nerves as well as you ? 'Oh , I don't dispute your claim to their possession , but I never complain of mine . 
'Can't bear what ? to be reminded of the promises you have broken ? 'Helen , you are cruel . 
If you knew how my heart throbbed , and how every nerve thrilled through me while you spoke , you would spare me . 
He leant his head on his hand , and sighed . 
I went to him and put my hand on his forehead . 
'Then come with me into the drawing room , Arthur and don't take any more wine you have taken several glasses since dinner , and eaten next to nothing all the day . 
How can that make you better ? With some coaxing and persuasion , I got him to leave the table . 
I found the latter reclining on the sofa just as I had left him . 
'Well ! exclaimed the injured man , in a tone of pseudo resignation . 
'I thought I wouldn't send for you I thought I'd just see how long it would please you to leave me alone . 
'I have not been very long , have I , Arthur ? I have not been an hour , I'm sure . 
'Oh , to be sure , you're overflowing with kindness and pity for everything but me . 
What the book was that lay open on the table before me , I cannot tell , for I never looked at it . 
With an elbow on each side of it , and my hands clasped before my eyes , I delivered myself up to silent weeping . 
'And you had better not tell but you cannot deny that you have degraded yourself miserably . 
There , there , do spare me a little . 
'Arthur , you must repent ! cried I , in a frenzy of desperation , throwing my arms around him and burying my face in his bosom . 
'You shall say you are sorry for what you have done ! 'Well , well , I am . 
'You are not ! you'll do it again . 
'I shall never live to do it again if you treat me so savagely , replied he , pushing me from him . 
'You've nearly squeezed the breath out of my body . 
He pressed his hand to his heart , and looked really agitated and ill . 
'Now get me a glass of wine , said he , 'to remedy what you've done , you she tiger ! I'm almost ready to faint . 
I flew to get the required remedy . 
It seemed to revive him considerably . 
He had her with him in London all the season , and she was no trouble at all . 
She never gives him a word of reproach or complaint , do what he will . 
He says there's not such a jewel in all England , and swears he wouldn't take a kingdom for her . 
'But he makes her life a curse to her . 
'Not he ! She has no will but his , and is always contented and happy as long as he is enjoying himself . 
'In that case she is as great a fool as he is but it is not so . 
'The detestable little traitor ! Give me the letter , and he shall see it as sure as I'm a living man . 
'No , he shall not see it without her consent but if he did , there is nothing there to anger him , nor in any of the others . 
She never speaks a word against him it is only anxiety for him that she expresses . 
'But she abuses me and no doubt you helped her . 
Friends as we are , we would willingly keep your failings to ourselves even from ourselves if we could , unless by knowing them we could deliver you from them . 
'Well , well ! don't worry me about them you'll never effect any good by that . 
Why can't you be gentle and good , as you were last time ? I'm sure I was very grateful for it . 
Thenceforth I restrained my tears and passions as much as I could . 
His appetite for the stimulus of wine had increased upon him , as I had too well foreseen . 
It was now something more to him than an accessory to social enjoyment it was an important source of enjoyment in itself . 
And here I must not forget that I am not a little indebted to his friend Mr. Hargrave . 
He was pleased with this mark of confidence , and certainly did not betray it . 
It seemed wrong that there should exist a secret understanding between my husband's friend and me , unknown to him , of which he was the object . 
But my after thought was , 'If it is wrong , surely Arthur's is the fault , not mine . 
Things that formerly shocked and disgusted me , now seem only natural . 
About the third week in August , Arthur set out for Scotland , and Mr. Hargrave accompanied him thither , to my private satisfaction . 
Since that time I have had little cause to complain . 
But it is now January spring is approaching and , I repeat , I dread the consequences of its arrival . 
That sweet season , I once so joyously welcomed as the time of hope and gladness , awakens now far other anticipations by its return . 
CHAPTER XXXI March th , . 
The dreaded time is come , and Arthur is gone , as I expected . 
He returned about three weeks ago , rather better in health , certainly , than before , but still worse in temper . 
And yet , perhaps , I am wrong it is I that am less patient and forbearing . 
I am tired out with his injustice , his selfishness and hopeless depravity . 
I wish a milder word would do I am no angel , and my corruption rises against it . 
My poor father died last week Arthur was vexed to hear of it , because he saw that I was shocked and grieved , and he feared the circumstance would mar his comfort . 
He would not hear of my attending the funeral , or going for a day or two , to cheer poor Frederick's solitude . 
It was quite unnecessary , he said , and I was unreasonable to wish it . 
'Besides , dear Helen , said he , embracing me with flattering fondness , 'I cannot spare you for a single day . 
It seemed so heavy a charge if false , too gross an insult if true , too humiliating a fact to be thus openly cast in his teeth . 
But I might have spared myself that momentary pang of self reproach . 
Surely that man will make me dislike him at last ! Sine as ye brew , my maiden fair , Keep mind that ye maun drink the yill . 
Yes and I will drink it to the very dregs and none but myself shall know how bitter I find it ! August th . 
We are shaken down again to about our usual position . 
But we shall not be long alone together . 
I long to see Milicent , and her little girl too . 
The latter is now above a year old she will be a charming playmate for my little Arthur . 
Our guests have been here a week or two but I have had no leisure to pass any comments upon them till now . 
I cannot get over my dislike to Lady Lowborough . 
It is not founded on mere personal pique it is the woman herself that I dislike , because I so thoroughly disapprove of her . 
Of late , however , I have seen nothing in her conduct towards Arthur to anger or alarm me . 
During the first few days I thought she seemed very solicitous to win his admiration . 
Nor have I since witnessed any symptom of pique on his part , or renewed attempts at conquest upon hers . 
This is as it should be but Arthur never will let me be satisfied with him . 
I have never , for a single hour since I married him , known what it is to realise that sweet idea , 'In quietness and confidence shall be your rest . 
Those two detestable men , Grimsby and Hattersley , have destroyed all my labour against his love of wine . 
They encourage him daily to overstep the bounds of moderation , and not unfrequently to disgrace himself by positive excess . 
I shall not soon forget the second night after their arrival . 
'What can induce you to come so soon ? exclaimed his lady , with a most ungracious air of dissatisfaction . 
'You know I never drink , Annabella , replied he seriously . 
'You did right to leave them , Lord Lowborough , said I. 'I trust you will always continue to honour us so early with your company . 
And if Annabella knew the value of true wisdom , and the misery of folly and and intemperance , she would not talk such nonsense even in jest . 
He raised his eyes while I spoke , and gravely turned them upon me , with a half surprised , half abstracted look , and then bent them on his wife . 
'At least , said she , 'I know the value of a warm heart and a bold , manly spirit . 
'Well , Annabella , said he , in a deep and hollow tone , 'since my presence is disagreeable to you , I will relieve you of it . 
'Are you going back to them , then ? said she , carelessly . 
'No , exclaimed he , with harsh and startling emphasis . 
'Not at all , my dear ! I should not mind if his lordship were to see fit to intoxicate himself every day I should only the sooner be rid of him . 
'Oh , Annabella ! cried Milicent . 
'What you feel at this moment , I suppose ? said Lady Lowborough , with a malicious smile , fixing her eyes upon her cousin's distressed countenance . 
The latter offered no reply , but averted her face and brushed away a tear . 
At that moment the door opened and admitted Mr. Hargrave , just a little flushed , his dark eyes sparkling with unwonted vivacity . 
'Oh , I'm so glad you're come , Walter ? cried his sister . 
'But I wish you could have got Ralph to come too . 
'Utterly impossible , dear Milicent , replied he , gaily . 
'I had much ado to get away myself . 
So you see , ladies , you ought to make me welcome when I have braved and suffered so much for the favour of your sweet society . 
He smilingly turned to me and bowed as he finished the sentence . 
'Isn't he handsome now , Helen ! whispered Milicent , her sisterly pride overcoming , for the moment , all other considerations . 
'He would be , I returned , 'if that brilliance of eye , and lip , and cheek were natural to him but look again , a few hours hence . 
Here the gentleman took a seat near me at the table , and petitioned for a cup of coffee . 
'I consider this an apt illustration of heaven taken by storm , said he , as I handed one to him . 
'I am in paradise , now but I have fought my way through flood and fire to win it . 
Mr. Hargrave laughed , and so did his cousin but his sister and I remained silent and grave . 
'Pardon my levity , Mrs. Huntingdon , murmured he , more seriously , as he raised his eyes to my face . 
'You are not used to these things you suffer them to affect your delicate mind too sensibly . 
'Pardon me , then , for I would sooner die than offend you . 
But let us say no more of him for the present , if you please . 
At last they came but not till after ten , when tea , which had been delayed for more than half an hour , was nearly over . 
'Ah ! you do well to remind me of the ladies , you dastardly deserter , cried he , shaking his formidable fist at his brother in law . 
'Did you ever hear such nonsense as they talk , Mrs. Huntingdon ? he continued . 
'Ah ! yes , I see , but we're almost in darkness here . 
If thine eye be single , thy whole body shall be full of light . 
Instead of your usual complement of one lump , you have put in six . 
'Have I so ? replied the philosopher , diving with his spoon into the cup , and bringing up several half dissolved pieces in confirmation of the assertion . 
Thus , Madam , you see the evil of absence of mind of thinking too much while engaged in the common concerns of life . 
'That is the sugar basin , Mr. Grimsby . 
His lordship gravely bowed in answer to my appeal , but said nothing . 
Lord Lowborough had entered a minute or two before , unobserved by an one but me , and had been standing before the door , grimly surveying the company . 
I attempted to urge Arthur to interfere in behalf of his outraged guest , but he could do nothing but laugh . 
'Huntingdon , you fool , come and help me , can't you ! cried Hattersley , himself somewhat weakened by his excesses . 
'I'm wishing you God speed , Hattersley , cried Arthur , 'and aiding you with my prayers I can't do anything else if my life depended on it ! I'm quite used up . 
Oh oh ! and leaning back in his seat , he clapped his hands on his sides and groaned aloud . 
'I shall take no part in your rude sports ! replied the lady coldly drawing back . 
'I wonder you can expect it . 
But I snatched up a candle and brought it to him . 
He took it and held the flame to Hattersley's hands , till , roaring like a wild beast , the latter unclasped them and let him go . 
He vanished , I suppose to his own apartment , for nothing more was seen of him till the morning . 
Swearing and cursing like a maniac , Hattersley threw himself on to the ottoman beside the window . 
The door being now free , Milicent attempted to make her escape from the scene of her husband's disgrace but he called her back , and insisted upon her coming to him . 
'What do you want , Ralph ? murmured she , reluctantly approaching him . 
'I want to know what's the matter with you , said he , pulling her on to his knee like a child . 
'What are you crying for , Milicent ? Tell me ! 'I'm not crying . 
'You are , persisted he , rudely pulling her hands from her face . 
'How dare you tell such a lie ! 'I'm not crying now , pleaded she . 
'But you have been , and just this minute too and I will know what for . 
Come , now , you shall tell me ! 'Do let me alone , Ralph ! Remember , we are not at home . 
'Don't let him treat your sister in that way , said I to Mr. Hargrave . 
'Come now , Hattersley , I can't allow that , said that gentleman , stepping up to the ill assorted couple . 
'Let my sister alone , if you please . 
'If you were not drunk , I'd have satisfaction for that ! gasped Hargrave , white and breathless as much from passion as from the immediate effects of the blow . 
'Go to the devil ! responded his brother in law . 
'Now , Milicent , tell me what you were crying for . 
'I'll tell you some other time , murmured she , 'when we are alone . 
'Tell me now ! said he , with another shake and a squeeze that made her draw in her breath and bite her lip to suppress a cry of pain . 
'I'll tell you , Mr. Hattersley , said I. 'She was crying from pure shame and humiliation for you because she could not bear to see you conduct yourself so disgracefully . 
'Confound you , Madam ! muttered he , with a stare of stupid amazement at my 'impudence . 
'It was not that was it , Milicent ? She was silent . 
'Come , speak up , child ! 'I can't tell now , sobbed she . 
'But you can say yes or no as well as I can't tell . 
Come ! 'Yes , she whispered , hanging her head , and blushing at the awful acknowledgment . 
The next object of assault was Arthur , who sat opposite , and had , no doubt , richly enjoyed the whole scene . 
He himself was no longer laughing now , but sick and stupid . 
I will write no more about that . 
have been repeated more than once . 
I date the time of this improvement from the period when she ceased to hope and strive for Arthur's admiration . 
Esther Hargrave is getting a fine girl . 
, and , now and then , her subdued , quiet sister . 
I often wonder what will be her lot in life , and so does she but her speculations on the future are full of buoyant hope so were mine once . 
I shudder to think of her being awakened , like me , to a sense of their delusive vanity . 
It seems as if I should feel her disappointment , even more deeply than my own . 
Oh , it would be cruel to make her feel as I feel now , and know what I have known ! Her sister trembles for her too . 
From laughing at the pretty sight , we began to talk of the children's future life and that made us thoughtful . 
We both relapsed into silent musing as we slowly proceeded up the walk and I suppose Milicent , by a train of associations , was led to think of her sister . 
'Helen , said she , 'you often see Esther , don't you ? 'Not very often . 
'That is because she is self willed , and my opinions more generally coincide with her own than your mamma's . 
'But romantic notions will not do I want her to have true notions . 
'Well , I believe you now that you have him , you would not exchange him for another but then you would gladly exchange some of his qualities for those of better men . 
And he will improve , don't you think so , Helen ? he's only six and twenty yet . 
'He may , I answered , 'He will , he WILL ! repeated she . 
'And yet you do hope , still , even for Mr. Huntingdon ? 'I do , I confess , even for him for it seems as if life and hope must cease together . 
And is he so much worse , Milicent , than Mr. Hattersley ? 'Well , to give you my candid opinion , I think there is no comparison between them . 
But you mustn't be offended , Helen , for you know I always speak my mind , and you may speak yours too . 
He was redolent of the stables , where he had been regaling himself with the company of his fellow creatures the horses ever since breakfast . 
Did he not think how unworthy he was of such a possession ? I fear no such idea crossed his mind . 
He caught her up , and there followed some minutes of very rough play , during which it is difficult to say whether the father or the daughter laughed and shouted the loudest . 
'Deuced bad weather this ! he began . 
'There'll be no shooting to day , I guess . 
'Not that I wish him to close his accounts , added he 'the old Trojan is welcome to keep his books open as long as he pleases for me . 
'I hope so , indeed , Mr. Hattersley . 
'Oh , yes ! It's only my way of talking . 
'What a splendid creature she is ! continued he , fixing his eyes on his wife , who changed colour , and looked more and more disconcerted as he proceeded . 
'Well , then , what makes you so cross ? Come here , Milly , and tell me why you can't be satisfied with my assurance . 
'Very true but who told you I didn't ? Did I say I loved Annabella ? 'You said you adored her . 
'True , but adoration isn't love . 
I adore Annabella , but I don't love her and I love thee , Milicent , but I don't adore thee . 
In proof of his affection , he clutched a handful of her light brown ringlets , and appeared to twist them unmercifully . 
'To be sure I do , responded he 'only you bother me rather , sometimes . 
'I bother you ! cried she , in very natural surprise . 
'Yes , you but only by your exceeding goodness . 
When a boy has been eating raisins and sugar plums all day , he longs for a squeeze of sour orange by way of a change . 
'I do like it , replied he , bringing her to him by another tug at her hair . 
'You mustn't mind my talk , Milly . 
'But why complain at all , unless because you are tired and dissatisfied ? 'To excuse my own failings , to be sure . 
'What now ? said he . 
'Where are you going ? 'To tidy my hair , she answered , smiling through her disordered locks 'you've made it all come down . 
'Off with you then ! An excellent little woman , he remarked when she was gone , 'but a thought too soft she almost melts in one's hands . 
I positively think I ill use her sometimes , when I've taken too much but I can't help it , for she never complains , either at the time or after . 
I suppose she doesn't mind it . 
'How do you know ? does she complain to you ? demanded he , with a sudden spark of fury ready to burst into a flame if I should answer yes . 
'No , I replied 'but I have known her longer and studied her more closely than you have done . 
, ascribe it all to yourself be assured it is something you have done amiss , or your general misconduct , that distresses her . 
If it were , she should tell me so I don't like that way of moping and fretting in silence , and saying nothing it's not honest . 
'None of your sneers , Mrs. Huntingdon . 
and to all connected with you , most especially your wife . 
'If you had no higher motive than the approval of your fellow mortal , it would do you little good . 
Now , if I went on with you as I do with her when I'm in London , you'd make the house too hot to hold me at times , I'll be sworn . 
'You mistake me I'm no termagant . 
'I know that , my lady and I think if my little wife were to follow the same plan , it would be better for us both . 
'Perhaps it would become you better , said I , 'to look at what you are , and say , God be merciful to me a sinner . 
'You are severe , returned he , bowing slightly and drawing himself up with a proud yet injured air . 
Hattersley laughed , and clapped him on the shoulder . 
Moving from under his hand with a gesture of insulted dignity , Mr. Hargrave took himself away to the other end of the rug . 
'You wanted to interfere between me and my wife , grumbled Hattersley , 'and that is enough to provoke any man . 
'You justify it , then ? said his opponent , darting upon him a most vindictive glance . 
'What have I said ? returned Hattersley 'nothing but heaven's truth . 
It was immediately clasped in that of his relative , and the reconciliation was apparently cordial on both sides . 
'I guess the best return I can make will be to take myself off , muttered Hattersley , with a broad grin . 
His companion smiled , and he left the room . 
This put me on my guard . 
At present I am going to take the children to the nursery . 
'But can't you ring and send them ? 'No I want the exercise of a run to the top of the house . 
'But you will return ? 'Not yet don't wait . 
'Then when may I see you again ? 'At lunch , said I , departing with little Helen in one arm and leading Arthur by the hand . 
He turned away , muttering some sentence of impatient censure or complaint , in which 'heartless' was the only distinguishable word . 
'What nonsense is this , Mr. Hargrave ? said I , pausing in the doorway . 
'What do you mean ? 'Oh , nothing I did not intend you should hear my soliloquy . 
I know too well the feelings with which the bearers of bad tidings are commonly regarded not to 'What is this wonderful piece of intelligence ? said I , impatiently interrupting him . 
'If it is anything of real importance , speak it in three words before I go . 
'In three words I cannot . 
Send those children away and stay with me . 
'No keep your bad tidings to yourself . 
I know it is something I don't want to hear , and something you would displease me by telling . 
'You have divined too truly , I fear but still , since I know it , I feel it my duty to disclose it to you . 
'Oh , spare us both the infliction , and I will exonerate you from the duty . 
You have offered to tell I have refused to hear my ignorance will not be charged on you . 
'Be it so you shall not hear it from me . 
But if the blow fall too suddenly upon you when it comes , remember I wished to soften it ! I left him . 
I was determined his words should not alarm me . 
He has not alluded to this momentous mystery since , and I have seen no reason to repent of my unwillingness to hear it . 
The threatened blow has not been struck yet , and I do not greatly fear it . 
Dare I hope this will continue ? CHAPTER XXXIII Seventh . 
Yes , I will hope ! To night I heard Grimsby and Hattersley grumbling together about the inhospitality of their host . 
'So , I suppose we've seen the last of our merry carousals in this house , said Mr. Hattersley 'I thought his good fellowship wouldn't last long . 
But , added he , laughing , 'I didn't expect it would meet its end this way . 
I rather thought our pretty hostess would be setting up her porcupine quills , and threatening to turn us out of the house if we didn't mind our manners . 
'You didn't foresee this , then ? answered Grimsby , with a guttural chuckle . 
'But he'll change again when he's sick of her . 
If we come here a year or two hence , we shall have all our own way , you'll see . 
'I don't know , replied the other 'she's not the style of woman you soon tire of . 
But be that as it may , it's devilish provoking now that we can't be jolly , because he chooses to be on his good behaviour . 
At this juncture I issued from my retreat , and smiling on Mr. Grimsby as I passed , left the room and went out in search of Arthur . 
Having seen him bend his course towards the shrubbery , I followed him thither , and found him just entering the shadowy walk . 
I was so light of heart , so overflowing with affection , that I sprang upon him and clasped him in my arms . 
'I startled you , Arthur , said I , laughing in my glee . 
'How nervous you are ! 'What the deuce did you do it for ? cried he , quite testily , extricating himself from my arms , and wiping his forehead with his handkerchief . 
'Go back , Helen go back directly ! You'll get your death of cold ! 'I won't , till I've told you what I came for . 
They are blaming you , Arthur , for your temperance and sobriety , and I'm come to thank you for it . 
'There , now , go . 
But he grew angry at my delay , so I kissed him and ran back to the house . 
I was in such a good humour that night Milicent told me I was the life of the party , and whispered she had never seen me so brilliant . 
Certainly , I talked enough for twenty , and smiled upon them all . 
Grimsby , Hattersley , Hargrave , Lady Lowborough , all shared my sisterly kindness . 
, but still behaved as well as he knew how . 
Milicent , delighted to see her husband , her brother , and her over estimated friend acquitting themselves so well , was lively and gay too , in her quiet way . 
Arthur did not talk much , but he laughed , and listened to the rest , and was in perfect good humour , though not excited by wine . 
So that , altogether , we made a very merry , innocent , and entertaining party . 
Yesterday , when Rachel came to dress me for dinner , I saw that she had been crying . 
I wanted to know the cause of it , but she seemed reluctant to tell . 
'What do you mean , Rachel ? He's going on very properly at present . 
'Well , ma'am , if you think so , it's right . 
When it was done , she fondly stroked it , and gently patted my head . 
'Is that affectionate ebullition intended for my hair , or myself , nurse ? said I , laughingly turning round upon her but a tear was even now in her eye . 
'What do you mean , Rachel ? I exclaimed . 
She must have found me a very unsociable companion this time , for Rachel's last words rang in my ears . 
Almost immediately after dinner Annabella went out with her husband to share his moonlight ramble , for it was a splendid evening like the last . 
Mr. Hargrave entered the drawing room a little before the others , and challenged me to a game of chess . 
He did it without any of that sad but proud humility he usually assumes in addressing me , unless he is excited with wine . 
I looked at his face to see if that was the case now . 
His eye met mine keenly , but steadily there was something about him I did not understand , but he seemed sober enough . 
Not choosing to engage with him , I referred him to Milicent . 
'She plays badly , said he , 'I want to match my skill with yours . 
Come now ! you can't pretend you are reluctant to lay down your work . 
I know you never take it up except to pass an idle hour , when there is nothing better you can do . 
'But chess players are so unsociable , I objected 'they are no company for any but themselves . 
'There is no one here but Milicent , and she 'Oh , I shall be delighted to watch you ! cried our mutual friend . 
'Two such players it will be quite a treat ! I wonder which will conquer . 
He fixed his eyes upon me with a glance I did not like , keen , crafty , bold , and almost impudent already half triumphant in his anticipated success . 
'I hope not , Mr. Hargrave ! returned I , with vehemence that must have startled Milicent at least but he only smiled and murmured , 'Time will show . 
, or encourage for a moment his dream of future conquest . 
His play was cautious and deep , but I struggled hard against him . 
He put his hand to his brow and paused , in evident perplexity . 
I rejoiced in my advantage , but dared not glory in it yet . 
'Oh , Walter , how you talk ! cried Milicent 'she has far more pieces than you still . 
'I intend to give you some trouble yet , said I 'and perhaps , sir , you will find yourself checkmated before you are aware . 
'Hold your tongue , will you ? said I his talk distracted me , for I was driven to extremities . 
A few more moves , and I was inextricably entangled in the snare of my antagonist . 
'Check , cried he I sought in agony some means of escape . 
'Mate ! he added , quietly , but with evident delight . 
He had suspended the utterance of that last fatal syllable the better to enjoy my dismay . 
I was foolishly disconcerted by the event . 
Hattersley laughed Milicent was troubled to see me so disturbed . 
'No , never , Mr. Hargrave ! exclaimed I , quickly withdrawing my hand . 
'Do you deny ? replied he , smilingly pointing to the board . 
'No , no , I answered , recollecting how strange my conduct must appear 'you have beaten me in that game . 
'Will you try another , then ? 'No . 
'You acknowledge my superiority ? 'Yes , as a chess player . 
I rose to resume my work . 
'Where is Annabella ? said Hargrave , gravely , after glancing round the room . 
'Gone out with Lord Lowborough , answered I , for he looked at me for a reply . 
'And not yet returned ! he said , seriously . 
'Where is Huntingdon ? looking round again . 
'Gone out with Grimsby , as you know , said Hattersley , suppressing a laugh , which broke forth as he concluded the sentence . 
'May I tell you something , Mrs. Huntingdon ? said he , in a subdued tone , with serious , downcast eyes . 
'If it be anything worth hearing , replied I , struggling to be composed , for I trembled in every limb . 
He quietly pushed a chair towards me . 
I merely leant my hand upon it , and bid him go on . 
'Do not be alarmed , said he 'what I wish to say is nothing in itself and I will leave you to draw your own inferences from it . 
Mr. Hargrave paused , and looked at me . 
Without a word of comment or further questioning , I rose , and darted from the room and out of the house . 
I flew to the shrubbery . 
Scarcely had I reached it , when a sound of voices arrested my breathless speed . 
'We have lingered too long he will be back , said Lady Lowborough's voice . 
'Surely not , dearest ! was his reply 'but you can run across the lawn , and get in as quietly as you can I'll follow in a while . 
My knees trembled under me my brain swam round . 
I was ready to faint . 
She must not see me thus . 
I shrunk among the bushes , and leant against the trunk of a tree to let her pass . 
'Ah , Huntingdon ! said she reproachfully , pausing where I had stood with him the night before 'it was here you kissed that woman ! she looked back into the leafy shade . 
Advancing thence , he answered , with a careless laugh , 'Well , dearest , I couldn't help it . 
You know I must keep straight with her as long as I can . 
'Not one bit , by all that's sacred ! he replied , kissing her glowing cheek . 
'Good heavens , I must be gone ! cried she , suddenly breaking from him , and away she flew . 
It seemed all dim and quivering now to my darkened sight . 
'I will never leave thee , nor forsake thee , seemed whispered from above their myriad orbs . 
'Ask Mrs. Hattersley to be so kind as to make the tea , John , said I. 'Say I am not well to night , and wish to be excused . 
How different was this from the evening of yesterday ! That , it seems , was the last expiring flash of my life's happiness . 
Now , too , I could better understand the conversation between Hattersley and Grimsby it was doubtless of his love for her they spoke , not for me . 
I heard the drawing room door open a light quick step came out of the ante room , crossed the hall , and ascended the stairs . 
It was Milicent , poor Milicent , gone to see how I was no one else cared for me but she still was kind . 
I shed no tears before , but now they came , fast and free . 
Thus she did me good , without approaching me . 
Disappointed in her search , I heard her come down , more slowly than she had ascended . 
Would she come in there , and find me out ? No , she turned in the opposite direction and re entered the drawing room . 
I was glad , for I knew not how to meet her , or what to say . 
I wanted no confidante in my distress . 
I deserved none , and I wanted none . 
I had taken the burden upon myself let me bear it alone . 
As the usual hour of retirement approached I dried my eyes , and tried to clear my voice and calm my mind . 
When the company were retiring to their chambers I gently opened the door , and just as he passed , beckoned him in . 
'What's to do with you , Helen ? said he . 
'No matter , I answered , 'to you you have no longer any regard for me it appears and I have no longer any for you . 
'Hal lo ! what the devil is this ? he muttered . 
'I would leave you to morrow , continued I , 'and never again come under this roof , but for my child' I paused a moment to steady , my voice . 
'What in the devil's name is this , Helen ? cried he . 
'What can you be driving at ? 'You know perfectly well . 
'Spare yourself the trouble of forswearing yourself and racking your brains to stifle truth with falsehood , I coldly replied . 
'I have trusted to the testimony of no third person . 
I was in the shrubbery this evening , and I saw and heard for myself . 
'Well , what then ? said he , with the calm insolence of mingled shamelessness and desperation . 
'Will you let me have the child then , without the money ? 'No , nor yourself without the child . 
Do you think I'm going to be made the talk of the country for your fastidious caprices ? 'Then I must stay here , to be hated and despised . 
But henceforth we are husband and wife only in the name . 
'I am your child's mother , and your housekeeper , nothing more . 
So you need not trouble yourself any longer to feign the love you cannot feel I will exact no more heartless caresses from you , nor offer nor endure them either . 
I will not be mocked with the empty husk of conjugal endearments , when you have given the substance to another ! 'Very good , if you please . 
We shall see who will tire first , my lady . 
'If I tire , it will be of living in the world with you not of living without your mockery of love . 
Hitherto I have struggled hard to hide your vices from every eye , and invest you with virtues you never possessed but now you must look to yourself . 
I left him muttering bad language to himself , and went up stairs . 
'You are poorly , ma'am , said Rachel , surveying me with deep anxiety . 
'It is too true , Rachel , said I , answering her sad looks rather than her words . 
'I knew it , or I wouldn't have mentioned such a thing . 
'But don't you trouble yourself about it , said I , kissing her pale , time wasted cheek . 
'I can bear it better than you imagine . 
'Yes , you were always for bearing . 
'Then I'd cry , persisted she . 
'I wouldn't look so white and so calm , and burst my heart with keeping it in . 
There , you may go now . 
Good night and don't disturb your rest for me I shall sleep well if I can . 
It was better to be so occupied than to be lying in bed torturing my brain with recollections of the far past and anticipations of the dreadful future . 
I have found relief in describing the very circumstances that have destroyed my peace , as well as the little trivial details attendant upon their discovery . 
No sleep I could have got this night would have done so much towards composing my mind , and preparing me to meet the trials of the day . 
Rachel has been to dress me , and says I have had a sad night of it , she can see . 
Milicent has just looked in to ask me how I was . 
I told her I was better , but to excuse my appearance admitted I had had a restless night . 
I wish this day were over ! I shudder at the thoughts of going down to breakfast . 
Breakfast passed well over I was calm and cool throughout . 
I answered composedly all inquiries respecting my health and whatever was unusual in my look or manner was generally attributed to the trifling indisposition that had occasioned my early retirement last night . 
But it is useless dwelling on this theme let me seek once more to dissipate reflection in the minor details of passing events . 
Mr. Hargrave has annoyed me all day long with his serious , sympathising , and unobtrusive politeness . 
I have done well to record them so minutely . 
They had betaken themselves to their work I , less to divert my mind than to deprecate conversation , had provided myself with a book . 
Milicent saw that I wished to be quiet , and accordingly let me alone . 
Upon perusing this she turned scarlet , and bit her lip . 
In a little while Milicent announced it her intention to repair to the nursery , and asked if I would accompany her . 
'Annabella will excuse us , said she 'she's busy reading . 
'No , I won't , cried Annabella , suddenly looking up , and throwing her book on the table 'I want to speak to Helen a minute . 
You may go , Milicent , and she'll follow in a while . 
'Will you oblige me , Helen ? continued she . 
Her impudence astounded me but I complied , and followed her into the library . 
She closed the door , and walked up to the fire . 
'Who told you this ? said she . 
'No one I am not incapable of seeing for myself . 
'Ah , you are suspicious ! cried she , smiling , with a gleam of hope . 
Hitherto there had been a kind of desperation in her hardihood now she was evidently relieved . 
'If I were suspicious , I replied , 'I should have discovered your infamy long before . 
No , Lady Lowborough , I do not found my charge upon suspicion . 
'I enjoy a moonlight ramble as well as you , I answered , steadily fixing my eyes upon her 'and the shrubbery happens to be one of my favourite resorts . 
She coloured again excessively , and remained silent , pressing her finger against her teeth , and gazing into the fire . 
I watched her a few moments with a feeling of malevolent gratification then , moving towards the door , I calmly asked if she had anything more to say . 
'Yes , yes ! cried she eagerly , starting up from her reclining posture . 
'Short of renouncing your guilty connection with my husband , I suppose you mean ? said I. She paused , in evident disconcertion and perplexity , mingled with anger she dared not show . 
'I cannot renounce what is dearer than life , she muttered , in a low , hurried tone . 
'I shall not tell him . 
'You will not ! cried she , delightedly . 
'Accept my sincere thanks , then ! She sprang up , and offered me her hand . 
'Give me no thanks it is not for your sake that I refrain . 
Neither is it an act of any forbearance I have no wish to publish your shame . 
I should be sorry to distress your husband with the knowledge of it . 
'And Milicent ? will you tell her ? 'No on the contrary , I shall do my utmost to conceal it from her . 
I would not for much that she should know the infamy and disgrace of her relation ! 'You use hard words , Mrs. Huntingdon , but I can pardon you . 
'And now , Lady Lowborough , continued I , 'let me counsel you to leave this house as soon as possible . 
'But I cannot go , Helen , before the time appointed for our departure . 
'Well , I have nothing more to say to you . 
'Have you mentioned this affair to Huntingdon ? asked she , as I was leaving the room . 
'How dare you mention his name to me ! was the only answer I gave . 
No words have passed between us since , but such as outward decency or pure necessity demanded . 
In proportion as Lady Lowborough finds she has nothing to fear from me , and as the time of departure draws nigh , the more audacious and insolent she becomes . 
This must be my fault as much as theirs that wrong me . 
Reason forbids , but passion urges strongly and I must pray and struggle long ere I subdue it . 
It is well that she is leaving to morrow , for I could not well endure her presence for another day . 
This morning she rose earlier than usual . 
I found her in the room alone , when I went down to breakfast . 
'Oh , Helen ! is it you ? said she , turning as I entered . 
I gave an involuntary start back on seeing her , at which she uttered a short laugh , observing , 'I think we are both disappointed . 
I came forward and busied myself with the breakfast things . 
'This is the last day I shall burden your hospitality , said she , as she seated herself at the table . 
'Ah , here comes one that will not rejoice at it ! she murmured , half to herself , as Arthur entered the room . 
'We never are , returned she . 
But they were almost as good as alone , for I was now standing at the window , watching the clouds , and struggling to suppress my wrath . 
This put me beside myself . 
I took her hand and violently dashed it from me , with an expression of abhorrence and indignation that could not be suppressed . 
Startled , almost appalled , by this sudden outbreak , she recoiled in silence . 
I would have given way to my fury and said more , but Arthur's low laugh recalled me to myself . 
I checked the half uttered invective , and scornfully turned away , regretting that I had given him so much amusement . 
He was still laughing when Mr. Hargrave made his appearance . 
How much of the scene he had witnessed I do not know , for the door was ajar when he entered . 
He greeted his host and his cousin both coldly , and me with a glance intended to express the deepest sympathy mingled with high admiration and esteem . 
'How much allegiance do you owe to that man ? he asked below his breath , as he stood beside me at the window , affecting to be making observations on the weather . 
And immediately returning to the table , I employed myself in making the tea . 
After breakfast , determined to pass as little of the day as possible in company with Lady Lowborough , I quietly stole away from the company and retired to the library . 
There was a momentary pause . 
I now raised my head and steadily confronting his gaze , I answered calmly , 'Mr . 
Hargrave , do you mean to insult me ? He was not prepared for this . 
He paused a moment to recover the shook then , drawing himself up and removing his hand from my chair , he answered , with proud sadness , 'That was not my intention . 
I just glanced towards the door , with a slight movement of the head , and then returned to my book . 
This was better than if I had answered with more words , and in the passionate spirit to which my first impulse would have prompted . 
In the course of the morning I drove over to the Grove with the two ladies , to give Milicent an opportunity for bidding farewell to her mother and sister . 
They persuaded her to stay with them the rest of the day , Mrs. Hargrave promising to bring her back in the evening and remain till the party broke up on the morrow . 
Consequently , Lady Lowborough and I had the pleasure of returning TETE E TETE in the carriage together . 
For the first mile or two we kept silence , I looking out of my window , and she leaning back in her corner . 
'Well , if you will be so bitter against me , replied she , 'I can't help it but I'm not going to sulk for anybody . 
Our short drive was now at an end . 
As soon as the carriage door was opened , she sprang out , and went down the park to meet the gentlemen , who were just returning from the woods . 
Of course I did not follow . 
I rose and rang for the nurse . 
I was almost sick with passion , but Rachel was now at the door . 
I pointed to the children , for I could not trust myself to speak she took them away , and I followed . 
'Will you , Helen ? continued the speaker . 
I gave her a look that blighted the malicious smile on her face , or checked it , at least for a moment , and departed . 
In the ante room I met Mr. Hargrave . 
Huntingdon , said he as I passed , 'will you allow me one word ? 'What is it then ? be quick , if you please . 
'I offended you this morning and I cannot live under your displeasure . 
'Then go , and sin no more , replied I , turning away . 
'No , no ! said he , hastily , setting himself before me . 
'Pardon me , but I must have your forgiveness . 
I leave you to morrow , and I may not have an opportunity of speaking to you again . 
'Forgetfulness is not to be purchased with a wish and I cannot bestow my esteem on all who desire it , unless they deserve it too . 
'I shall think my life well spent in labouring to deserve it , if you will but pardon this offence will you ? 'Yes . 
'Yes ! but that is coldly spoken . 
Give me your hand and I'll believe you . 
You won't ? Then , Mrs. Huntingdon , you do not forgive me ! 'Yes here it is , and my forgiveness with it only , SIN NO MORE . 
He pressed my cold hand with sentimental fervour , but said nothing , and stood aside to let me pass into the room , where all the company were now assembled . 
Mr. Grimsby was seated near the door on seeing me enter , almost immediately followed by Hargrave , he leered at me with a glance of intolerable significance , as I passed . 
I looked him in the face , till he sullenly turned away , if not ashamed , at least confounded for the moment . 
Thank heaven , they are all going to morrow . 
CHAPTER XXXVI December th , . 
This is the third anniversary of our felicitous union . 
No he must contrive to bear with me . 
I shall therefore remit these duties when my bondage becomes intolerable . 
This threat , I thought , would serve to keep him in check , if anything would . 
When he is under the exciting influence of these excesses , he sometimes fires up and attempts to play the brute and then I take little pains to suppress my scorn and disgust . 
This is a kind of injustice I cannot patiently endure . 
At present I am enjoying a temporary relief from his presence he is gone with Hargrave to join a distant hunt , and will probably not be back before to morrow evening . 
How differently I used to feel his absence ! Mr. Hargrave is still at the Grove . 
He and Arthur frequently meet to pursue their rural sports together he often calls upon us here , and Arthur not unfrequently rides over to him . 
I suppose he is striving to 'win my esteem . 
If he continue to act in this way , he may win it but what then ? The moment he attempts to demand anything more , he will lose it again . 
It is a hard , embittering thing to have one's kind feelings and good intentions cast back in one's teeth . 
He gave a slight titter on seeing me change colour . 
Urged by a sudden , imperative impulse to deliver my son from that contaminating influence , I caught him up in my arms and carried him with me out of the room . 
Not liking this abrupt removal , the child began to pout and cry . 
This was a new stab to my already tortured heart . 
Rather frightened than consoled by this , he turned struggling from me , and cried out aloud for his papa . 
I released him from my arms , and never were more bitter tears than those that now concealed him from my blinded , burning eyes . 
Hearing his cries , the father came to the room . 
I instantly turned away , lest he should see and misconstrue my emotion . 
He swore at me , and took the now pacified child away . 
Another year is past and I am weary of this life . 
I am not well fitted to be his only companion , I know but there is no other to supply my place . 
Happily , there were none of Arthur's 'friends' invited to Grassdale last autumn he took himself off to visit some of them instead . 
I wish he would always do so , and I wish his friends were numerous and loving enough to keep him amongst them all the year round . 
Mr. Hargrave , considerably to my annoyance , did not go with him but I think I have done with that gentleman at last . 
when , presuming upon my unsuspecting kindness , he thought he might venture to overstep the bounds of decent moderation and propriety that had so long restrained him . 
'He has been so extremely ceremonious and stately of late , I can't imagine what it is all about , unless you have desperately offended him . 
Tell me what it is , that I may be your mediator , and make you friends again . 
'I have done nothing willingly to offend him , said I. 'If he is offended , he can best tell you himself what it is about . 
'Did you call , Esther ? said her brother , approaching the window from without . 
'Yes I wanted to ask you 'Good morning , Esther , said I , talking her hand and giving it a severe squeeze . 
'To ask you , continued she , 'to get me a rose for Mrs. Huntingdon . 
'Esther , how can you be so rude ! cried Mrs. Hargrave , who was seated gravely knitting in her easy chair . 
'Isn't she cross ? whispered she to me but , before I could add my share of reproof , Mr. Hargrave reappeared at the window with a beautiful moss rose in his hand . 
'Here , Esther , I've brought you the rose , said he , extending it towards her . 
'Give it her yourself , you blockhead ! cried she , recoiling with a spring from between us . 
Huntingdon would rather receive it from you , replied he , in a very serious tone , but lowering his voice that his mother might not hear . 
His sister took the rose and gave it to me . 
'My brother's compliments , Mrs. Huntingdon , and he hopes you and he will come to a better understanding by and by . 
About a week after Mr. Hargrave brought his sister to see me . 
She talked to me , and laughed and romped with little Arthur , her loved and loving playmate . 
He , somewhat to my discomfort , enticed her from the room to have a run in the hall , and thence into the garden . 
I got up to stir the fire . 
Mr. Hargrave asked if I felt cold , and shut the door a very unseasonable piece of officiousness , for I had meditated following the noisy playfellows if they did not speedily return . 
'No but it's no matter , I answered carelessly and if my cheek glowed like fire , it was rather at the question than the information it conveyed . 
'You don't object to it ? he said . 
'Not at all , if Lord Lowborough likes his company . 
'You have no love left for him , then ? 'Not the least . 
But tell me , do you never think of revenge ? 'Revenge ! No what good would that do ? it would make him no better , and me no happier . 
'I don't know how to talk to you , Mrs. Huntingdon , said he , smiling 'you are only half a woman your nature must be half human , half angelic . 
Such goodness overawes me I don't know what to make of it . 
And forthwith moving to the window , I began to look out for my little son and his gay young friend . 
'No , I am the ordinary mortal , I maintain , replied Mr. Hargrave . 
'I will not allow myself to be worse than my fellows but you , Madam I equally maintain there is nobody like you . 
But are you happy ? he asked in a serious tone . 
'As happy as some others , I suppose . 
'Are you as happy as you desire to be ? 'No one is so blest as that comes to on this side eternity . 
'One thing I know , returned he , with a deep sad sigh 'you are immeasurably happier than I am . 
'I am very sorry for you , then , I could not help replying . 
'Are you , indeed ? No , for if you were you would be glad to relieve me . 
'And so I should if I could do so without injuring myself or any other . 
'And can you suppose that I should wish you to injure yourself ? No on the contrary , it is your own happiness I long for more than mine . 
You are miserable now , Mrs. Huntingdon , continued he , looking me boldly in the face . 
'I have a son , Mr. Hargrave , and you have a mother , said I , retiring from the window , whither he had followed me . 
'They need not know , he began but before anything more could be said on either side , Esther and Arthur re entered the room . 
The former glanced at Walter's flushed , excited countenance , and then at mine a little flushed and excited too , I daresay , though from far different causes . 
'If I have spoken too warmly , forgive me , he murmured on taking his leave , 'or I shall never forgive myself . 
Esther smiled and glanced at me I merely bowed , and her countenance fell . 
She thought it a poor return for Walter's generous concession , and was disappointed in her friend . 
But that indefatigable foe was not yet vanquished he seemed to be always on the watch . 
I frequently saw him riding lingeringly past the premises , looking searchingly round him as he went or , if I did not , Rachel did . 
The horse soon overtook me , and was reined up close beside me . 
He greeted me with a smile intended to be soft and melancholy , but his triumphant satisfaction at having caught me at last so shone through that it was quite a failure . 
'Well ! I don't much care . 
If you want another rebuff , take it and welcome , was my inward remark . 
I admired you then most deeply , but I dared not love you . 
In the following autumn I saw so much of your perfections that I could not fail to love you , though I dared not show it . 
For upwards of three years I have endured a perfect martyrdom . 
'If you affect , replied he , earnestly , 'to regard as folly the best , the strongest , the most godlike impulses of our nature , I don't believe you . 
I know you are not the heartless , icy being you pretend to be you had a heart once , and gave it to your husband . 
you may tell me that you scorn and detest me , but , since you have set me the example of plain speaking , I will answer that I do not believe you . 
But you will not do it ! you choose rather to leave us miserable and you coolly tell me it is the will of God that we should remain so . 
'I do not ask you to leave your home or defy the world's opinion . 
But I need not repeat all his arguments . 
'Do you really love me ? said I , seriously , pausing and looking him calmly in the face . 
'Do I love you ! cried he . 
His countenance brightened he thought his triumph was at hand . 
'If you have , never mention this subject again . 
You cannot recur to it in any way without doubling the weight of those sufferings you so feelingly deplore . 
I have nothing left me but the solace of a good conscience and a hopeful trust in heaven , and you labour continually to rob me of these . 
If you persist , I must regard you as my deadliest foe . 
'But hear me a moment 'No , sir ! You said you would give your life to serve me I only ask your silence on one particular point . 
I have spoken plainly and what I say I mean . 
I cannot live here , and be for ever silent on the all absorbing subject of my thoughts and wishes . 
'If that be really possible , he muttered 'and can you bid me go so coolly ? Do you really wish it ? 'Most certainly I do . 
If you cannot see me without tormenting me as you have lately done , I would gladly say farewell and never see you more . 
He made no answer , but , bending from his horse , held out his hand towards me . 
He grasped it very hard , and immediately put spurs to his horse and galloped away . 
Very soon after , I learned that he was gone to Paris , where he still is and the longer he stays there the better for me . 
I thank God for this deliverance ! CHAPTER XXXVIII December th , . 
The fifth anniversary of my wedding day , and , I trust , the last I shall spend under this roof . 
My resolution is formed , my plan concocted , and already partly put in execution . 
, consisting of the same individuals as those invited the year before last , with the addition of two or three others , among whom were Mrs. Hargrave and her younger daughter . 
But my fears were brought to an end in a manner I had not anticipated . 
This room was still his favourite resort . 
He flung the door to with unusual violence , and cast his hat aside regardless where it fell . 
What could be the matter with him ? His face was ghastly pale his eyes were fixed upon the ground his teeth clenched his forehead glistened with the dews of agony . 
I made a movement to let him know that he was not alone but he was too preoccupied to notice it . 
Perhaps , while his back was towards me , I might cross the room and slip away unobserved . 
I rose to make the attempt , but then he perceived me . 
Huntingdon , I must leave you to morrow . 
'To morrow ! I repeated . 
'I do not ask the cause . 
'I have so long been aware of I paused in time , and added , 'of my husband's character , that nothing shocks me . 
'But this how long have you been aware of this ? demanded he , laying his clenched hand on the table beside him , and looking me keenly and fixedly in the face . 
I felt like a criminal . 
'Not long , I answered . 
'You knew it ! cried he , with bitter vehemence 'and you did not tell me ! You helped to deceive me ! 'My lord , I did not help to deceive you . 
'Then why did you not tell me ? 'Because I knew it would be painful to you . 
'Two years , I believe . 
'Great heaven ! and she has duped me all this time ! He turned away with a suppressed groan of agony , and paced the room again in a paroxysm of renewed agitation . 
My heart smote me but I would try to console him , though I knew not how to attempt it . 
'She is a wicked woman , I said . 
'She has basely deceived and betrayed you . 
She is as little worthy of your regret as she was of your affection . 
Let her injure you no further abstract yourself from her , and stand alone . 
Something rose within me , and urged me to resent this harsh return for my heartfelt sympathy , and defend myself with answering severity . 
Happily , I did not yield to the impulse . 
'It was wrong , it was wrong ! he muttered at length . 
Something in my voice or in the spirit of this answer seemed to alter his mood . 
'I suffered much , at first . 
Something like a smile , but a very bitter one , crossed his face for a moment . 
'You have not been happy , lately ? he said , with a kind of effort to regain composure , and a determination to waive the further discussion of his own calamity . 
'Happy ? I repeated , almost provoked at such a question . 
You smile , Mrs. Huntingdon nothing moves you . 
I wish my nature were as calm as yours . 
'My nature was not originally calm , said I. 'I have learned to appear so by dint of hard lessons and many repeated efforts . 
At this juncture Mr. Hattersley burst into the room . 
'Hallo , Lowborough ! he began 'Oh ! I beg your pardon , he exclaimed on seeing me . 
'I didn't know it was A TETE E TETE . 
Cheer up , man , he continued , giving Lord Lowborough a thump on the back , which caused the latter to recoil from him with looks of ineffable disgust and irritation . 
'Come , I want to speak with you a bit . 
'But I'm not sure it would be quite agreeable to the lady what I have to say . 
'Then it would not be agreeable to me , said his lordship , turning to leave the room . 
'Yes , it would , cried the other , following him into the hall . 
'If you've the heart of a man , it would be the very ticket for you . 
'I think you're an ill used man nay , now , don't flare up I don't want to offend you it's only my rough way of talking . 
Come now , give me your hand , and don't look so black upon it . 
Name time and place , and I'll manage the rest . 
'But you see , in this case , pleaded Hattersley 'I'll not hear you ! exclaimed his companion , hastily turning away . 
'Not another word ! I've enough to do against the fiend within me . 
'Then you're a white livered fool , and I wash my hands of you , grumbled the tempter , as he swung himself round and departed . 
'Right , right , Lord Lowborough , cried I , darting out and clasping his burning hand , as he was moving away to the stairs . 
I returned to the drawing room , where , doubtless , my presence would be expected by most , desired by one or two . 
In the ante room was Mr. Hattersley , railing against Lord Lowborough's poltroonery before a select audience , viz . 
However , she asserted , it was only a business concern , and so she did not intend it should trouble her . 
She was just saying this as I entered , and she darted upon me such a glance of hardihood and defiance as at once astonished and revolted me . 
'And yet , Annabella , said Esther , who was sitting beside her , 'I never saw you in better spirits in my life . 
I'll do my best to amuse you . 
She and Lord Lowborough occupied the apartments next to mine . 
So strong had been the temptation to end his miserable life , so determined his resolution to resist it . 
My heart bled for him as I lay listening to that ceaseless tread . 
had the gratuitous insolence to come out in his dressing gown to bid his 'friend' good by . 
'What , going already , Lowborough ! said he . 
He smilingly offered his hand . 
'I call that an unchristian spirit now , said the villain . 
'But I'd never give up an old friend for the sake of a wife . 
He subsequently expressed himself rather glad she was gone . 
'She was so deuced imperious and exacting , said he . 
'Now I shall be my own man again , and feel rather more at my ease . 
I heard high words exchanged between him and his already half inebriated host as I departed , leading away my bewildered and disconcerted boy . 
These guests might not be with us long , but they would return again and he , the most injurious of the whole , his child's worst enemy , would still remain . 
The palette and the easel , my darling playmates once , must be my sober toil fellows now . 
Brilliant success , of course , I did not look for , but some degree of security from positive failure was indispensable I must not take my son to starve . 
No I must have patience and gather a hoard of my own . 
A few months' arduous toil might well be borne by me with such an end in view and in the interim my son could not be much more injured than he was already . 
Since Lord Lowborough's departure I had regarded the library as entirely my own , a secure retreat at all hours of the day . 
None of our gentlemen had the smallest pretensions to a literary taste , except Mr. Hargrave and he , at present , was quite contented with the newspapers and periodicals of the day . 
But , contrary to my expectation , on the third morning , while I was thus employed , Mr. Hargrave did look in , and did not immediately withdraw on seeing me . 
He apologized for his intrusion , and said he was only come for a book but when he had got it , he condescended to cast a glance over my picture . 
Receiving no encouragement in that either , he dropped it , but did not depart . 
'Probably , he added , with a smile , 'your only regret on the subject will be that I do not take all my companions along with me . 
I flatter myself , at times , that though among them I am not of them but it is natural that you should be glad to get rid of me . 
I may regret this , but I cannot blame you for it . 
to the rest , inhospitable as it may appear . 
'No one can blame you for such an avowal , replied he gravely 'not even the gentlemen themselves , I imagine . 
Well , they were talking of these things , and some of them remarked that , as she was separated from her husband , he might see her again when he pleased . 
Thank you , said he I've had enough of her for the present I'll not trouble to see her , unless she comes to me . 
Then what do you mean to do , Huntingdon , when we're gone ? said Ralph Hattersley . 
Nay , I've done , replied the other I only want to know if you intend to take my advice . 
What advice ? To turn over a new leaf , you double dyed scoundrel , shouted Ralph , and beg your wife's pardon , and be a good boy for the future . 
What do you think of that , Mrs. Huntingdon ? asked Mr. Hargrave , after a short pause , during which I had felt he was keenly examining my half averted face . 
'I say , replied I , calmly , 'that what he prizes so lightly will not be long in his possession . 
'Will you leave him then ? 'Yes . 
'When and how ? asked he , eagerly . 
'When I am ready , and how I can manage it most effectually . 
'But your child ? 'My child goes with me . 
'He will not allow it . 
'I shall not ask him . 
'Ah , then , it is a secret flight you meditate ! but with whom , Mrs. Huntingdon ? 'With my son and possibly , his nurse . 
'Alone and unprotected ! But where can you go ? what can you do ? He will follow you and bring you back . 
'I have laid my plans too well for that . 
Let me once get clear of Grassdale , and I shall consider myself safe . 
Huntingdon , said he with bitter solemnity , 'you are cruel cruel to me cruel to yourself . 
Hargrave , remember your promise . 
But he was in for it now he had fairly broken the barrier he was completely roused , and determined to hazard all for victory . 
'You have no reason now you are flying in the face of heaven's decrees . 
But he only tightened his grasp . 
'Let me go ! I repeated , quivering with indignation . 
His face was almost opposite the window as he knelt . 
With a slight start , I saw him glance towards it and then a gleam of malicious triumph lit up his countenance . 
Looking over my shoulder , I beheld a shadow just retiring round the corner . 
'That is Grimsby , said he deliberately . 
'He will report what he has seen to Huntingdon and all the rest , with such embellishments as he thinks proper . 
He has no love for you , Mrs. Huntingdon no reverence for your sex , no belief in virtue , no admiration for its image . 
He will give such a version of this story as will leave no doubt at all about your character , in the minds of those who hear it . 
Your fair fame is gone and nothing that I or you can say can ever retrieve it . 
'I do not insult you , cried he 'I worship you . 
You are my angel , my divinity ! I lay my powers at your feet , and you must and shall accept them ! he exclaimed , impetuously starting to his feet . 
He precipitated himself towards me . 
I snatched up my palette knife and held it against him . 
This startled him he stood and gazed at me in astonishment I daresay I looked as fierce and resolute as he . 
I moved to the bell , and put my hand upon the cord . 
This tamed him still more . 
With a half authoritative , half deprecating wave of the hand , he sought to deter me from ringing . 
'Stand off , then ! said I he stepped back . 
There now ! I hope you're satisfied . 
His face grew blanched with anger . 
'I am satisfied , he replied , with bitter emphasis , 'that you are the most cold hearted , unnatural , ungrateful woman I ever yet beheld ! 'Ungrateful , sir ? 'Ungrateful . 
'No , Mr. Hargrave , I am not . 
Here the door was thrown open , and Messrs . 
Huntingdon and Hattersley appeared without . 
'Well , sir ? said Hargrave , interrogatively , and with the air of one prepared to stand on the defensive . 
'Well , sir , returned his host . 
'We want to know if you are at liberty to join us in a go at the pheasants , Walter , interposed Hattersley from without . 
'Come ! there shall be nothing shot besides , except a puss or two I'll vouch for that . 
Walter did not answer , but walked to the window to collect his faculties . 
Arthur uttered a low whistle , and followed him with his eyes . 
'Humph ! You're mighty sudden in your resolution . 
What takes you off so soon , may I ask ? 'Business , returned he , repelling the other's incredulous sneer with a glance of scornful defiance . 
'Very good , was the reply and Hargrave walked away . 
'Come , my lad , he muttered 'true or false , you've no right to blame her , you know , nor him either after what you said last night . 
There was something implied here that I could not endure . 
'Dare you suspect me , Mr. Hattersley ? said I , almost beside myself with fury . 
'Nay , nay , I suspect nobody . 
It's all right , it's all right . 
So come along , Huntingdon , you blackguard . 
'She can't deny it ! cried the gentleman thus addressed , grinning in mingled rage and triumph . 
'I scorn to justify myself to you ! said I. 'But you , turning to Hattersley , 'if you presume to have any doubts on the subject , ask Mr. Hargrave . 
At this they simultaneously burst into a rude laugh that made my whole frame tingle to the fingers' ends . 
'Where is he ? I'll ask him myself ! said I , advancing towards them . 
Suppressing a new burst of merriment , Hattersley pointed to the outer door . 
His brother in law was standing on the front without . 
Hargrave , will you please to step this way ? said I. He turned and looked at me in grave surprise . 
'Step this way , if you please ! I repeated , in so determined a manner that he could not , or did not choose to resist its authority . 
Somewhat reluctantly he ascended the steps and advanced a pace or two into the hall . 
'And tell those gentlemen , I continued 'these men , whether or not I yielded to your solicitations . 
'I don't understand you , Mrs. Huntingdon . 
'You do understand me , sir and I charge you , upon your honour as a gentleman , to answer truly . 
Did I , or did I not ? 'No , muttered he , turning away . 
'Speak up , sir they can't hear you . 
Did I grant your request ? 'You did not . 
'No , I'll be sworn she didn't , said Hattersley , 'or he'd never look so black . 
'I'm willing to grant you the satisfaction of a gentleman , Huntingdon , said Mr. Hargrave , calmly addressing his host , but with a bitter sneer upon his countenance . 
'Go to the deuce ! replied the latter , with an impatient jerk of the head . 
Hargrave withdrew with a look of cold disdain , saying , 'You know where to find me , should you feel disposed to send a friend . 
Muttered oaths and curses were all the answer this intimation obtained . 
'Now , Huntingdon , you see ! said Hattersley . 
I instantly departed and shut myself into the library . 
'Then let me do it , said I , 'and lose not a moment in vain repinings and idle chafings against my fate , and those who influence it . 
And conquering my agitation with a powerful effort , I immediately resumed my task , and laboured hard all day . 
Mr. Hargrave did depart on the morrow and I have never seen him since . 
'No , Arthur , Rachel never said so , I am certain . 
'Well , then , it was papa , replied he , thoughtfully . 
So , mamma , that's why I think you must be wicked and I wish you wouldn't . 
'My dear child , I am not . 
Those are bad words , and wicked people often say them of others better than themselves . 
Those words cannot make people be damned , nor show that they deserve it . 
God will judge us by our own thoughts and deeds , not by what others say about us . 
And when you hear such words spoken , Arthur , remember never to repeat them it is wicked to say such things of others , not to have them said against you . 
'Then it's papa that's wicked , said he , ruefully . 
'Papa is wrong to say such things , and you will be very wrong to imitate him now that you know better . 
'What is imitate ? 'To do as he does . 
'Does he know better ? 'Perhaps he does but that is nothing to you . 
'If he doesn't , you ought to tell him , mamma . 
The little moralist paused and pondered . 
I tried in vain to divert his mind from the subject . 
'I'm sorry papa's wicked , said he mournfully , at length , 'for I don't want him to go to hell . 
And so saying he burst into tears . 
While writing the above , yesterday evening , I sat in the drawing room . 
Mr. Huntingdon was present , but , as I thought , asleep on the sofa behind me . 
Unluckily for me , he was more sober that night than he usually is at such an hour . 
'What keys ? 'The keys of your cabinet , desk , drawers , and whatever else you possess , said he , rising and holding out his hand . 
'I've not got them , I replied . 
The key of my desk , in fact , was at that moment in the lock , and the others were attached to it . 
'Then you must send for them , said he 'and if that old devil , Rachel , doesn't immediately deliver them up , she tramps bag and baggage tomorrow . 
'She doesn't know where they are , I answered , quietly placing my hand upon them , and taking them from the desk , as I thought , unobserved . 
'I know , but I shall not give them up without a reason . 
'And I know , too , said he , suddenly seizing my closed hand and rudely abstracting them from it . 
He then took up one of the candles and relighted it by thrusting it into the fire . 
'Now , then , sneered he , 'we must have a confiscation of property . 
But , first , let us take a peep into the studio . 
And putting the keys into his pocket , he walked into the library . 
I followed , whether with the dim idea of preventing mischief , or only to know the worst , I can hardly tell . 
My painting materials were laid together on the corner table , ready for to morrow's use , and only covered with a cloth . 
He then rang the bell . 
Benson paused aghast and looked at me . 
'Take them away , Benson , said I and his master muttered an oath . 
'And this and all , sir ? said the astonished servant , referring to the half finished picture . 
'That and all , replied the master and the things were cleared away . 
Mr. Huntingdon then went up stairs . 
With a sudden stroke of my hand I dashed the candle to the floor . 
'Hal lo ! muttered he , starting back 'she's the very devil for spite . 
Did ever any mortal see such eyes ? they shine in the dark like a cat's . 
Oh , you're a sweet one ! So saying , he gathered up the candle and the candlestick . 
The former being broken as well as extinguished , he rang for another . 
'Benson , your mistress has broken the candle bring another . 
'You expose yourself finely , observed I , as the man departed . 
'I didn't say I'd broken it , did I ? returned he . 
'It's well you couldn't keep your own secret ha , ha ! It's well these women must be blabbing . 
And as I departed , he went on cursing and abusing my faithful friend and servant with epithets I will not defile this paper with repeating . 
I went to her as soon as I had put away my book , and told her how our project was defeated . 
I know that day after day such feelings will return upon me . 
Have I no faith in God ? I try to look to Him and raise my heart to heaven , but it will cleave to the dust . 
I can only say , 'He hath hedged me about , that I cannot get out He hath made my chain heavy . 
He hath filled me with bitterness He hath made me drunken with wormwood . 
I forget to add , 'But though He cause grief , yet will He have compassion according to the multitude of His mercies . 
For He doth not afflict willingly nor grieve the children of men . 
Having now got rid of Mr. Huntingdon for a season , my spirits begin to revive . 
Thank heaven , it is not a barren or a stony soil if weeds spring fast there , so do better plants . 
He was inordinately fond of them for so young a creature , and , remembering my unfortunate father as well as his , I dreaded the consequences of such a taste . 
I have devised another scheme that might be resorted to in such a case and if I could but obtain my brother's consent and assistance , I should not doubt of its success . 
The old hall where he and I were born , and where our mother died , is not now inhabited , nor yet quite sunk into decay , as I believe . 
I have arranged the whole plan in my head and all I want is to persuade Frederick to be of the same mind as myself . 
He is coming to see me soon , and then I will make the proposal to him , having first enlightened him upon my circumstances sufficiently to excuse the project . 
Already , I believe , he knows much more of my situation than I have told him . 
But he has never openly expressed any disapprobation of him or sympathy for me he has never asked any questions , or said anything to invite my confidence . 
Had he done so , I should probably have had but few concealments from him . 
Perhaps he feels hurt at my reserve . 
He is a strange being I wish we knew each other better . 
He shall stay many days this time , and there shall be more candour and cordiality between us than ever there was before , since our early childhood . 
My heart clings to him more than ever and my soul is sick of solitude . 
He is come and gone . 
He would not stay above a fortnight . 
The time passed quickly , but very , very happily , and it has done me good . 
'He is like you , Frederick , said I , 'in some of his moods I sometimes think he resembles you more than his father and I am glad of it . 
'You flatter me , Helen , replied he , stroking the child's soft , wavy locks . 
'No , you will think it no compliment when I tell you I would rather have him to resemble Benson than his father . 
He slightly elevated his eyebrows , but said nothing . 
'Do you know what sort of man Mr. Huntingdon is ? said I. 'I think I have an idea . 
Frederick was exceedingly indignant against Mr. Huntingdon , and very much grieved for me but still he looked upon my project as wild and impracticable . 
Mrs. Hargrave and her daughter are come back from London . 
Esther is full of her first season in town but she is still heart whole and unengaged . 
'I should have done so whether I had seen him or not , said I 'it is enough that you dislike him . 
'I knew you would say so though mamma affirmed you would be quite shocked at my undutiful conduct . 
You can't imagine how she lectures me I am disobedient and ungrateful I am thwarting her wishes , wronging my brother , and making myself a burden on her hands . 
I sometimes fear she'll overcome me after all . 
Stand firm , and your mamma will soon relinquish her persecution and the gentleman himself will cease to pester you with his addresses if he finds them steadily rejected . 
So she has brought me home , to school me into a proper sense of my duty , against the time comes round again . 
'Well , Esther , I pity you but still , I repeat , stand firm . 
You might as well sell yourself to slavery at once , as marry a man you dislike . 
If your mother and brother are unkind to you , you may leave them , but remember you are bound to your husband for life . 
'But I cannot leave them unless I get married , and I cannot get married if nobody sees me . 
When I tell you not to marry without love , I do not advise you to marry for love alone there are many , many other things to be considered . 
Marriage may change your circumstances for the better , but , in my private opinion , it is far more likely to produce a contrary result . 
'So thinks Milicent but allow me to say I think otherwise . 
If I thought myself doomed to old maidenhood , I should cease to value my life . 
, is perfectly intolerable I would rather run away with the butler . 
'Your circumstances are peculiar , I allow but have patience , love do nothing rashly . 
And meantime , remember you have a right to the protection and support of your mother and brother , however they may seem to grudge it . 
'You are so grave , Mrs. Huntingdon , said Esther , after a pause . 
'It is a very impertinent question , laughed I , 'from a young girl to a married woman so many years her senior , and I shall not answer it . 
'If such are your expectations of matrimony , Esther , you must , indeed , be careful whom you marry or rather , you must avoid it altogether . 
Perhaps he will stay among his friends till Christmas and then , next spring , he will be off again . 
Vain hope , I fear ! but still , till such a time of trial comes I will forbear to think of my quiet asylum in the beloved old hall . 
'Do you want to hear anything of your husband , Mrs. Huntingdon ? said he . 
'No , unless you can tell me when to expect him home . 
You don't want him , do you ? said he , with a broad grin . 
'Well , I think you're better without him , sure enough for my part , I'm downright weary of him . 
I told him I'd leave him if he didn't mend his manners , and he wouldn't so I left him . 
What do you think of that ? 'It is a resolution you ought to have formed long ago . 
'Well , to tell you the truth , I've thought of it often and often before but he's such devilish good company , is Huntingdon , after all . 
You can't imagine what a jovial good fellow he is when he's not fairly drunk , only just primed or half seas over . 
We all have a bit of a liking for him at the bottom of our hearts , though we can't respect him . 
'But should you wish yourself to be like him ? 'No , I'd rather be like myself , bad as I am . 
'You can't continue as bad as you are without getting worse and more brutalised every day , and therefore more like him . 
I could not help smiling at the comical , half angry , half confounded look he put on at this rather unusual mode of address . 
'Never mind my plain speaking , said I 'it is from the best of motives . 
But tell me , should you wish your sons to be like Mr. Huntingdon or even like yourself ? 'Hang it ! no . 
'Impossible , Mr. Hattersley ! you mistake her quiet submission for affection . 
'Fire and fury 'Now don't burst into a tempest at that . 
'You have done more towards it than you suppose . 
'Think of what she was five years ago , when you married her , and what she is now . 
But hang it ! that's not my fault . 
'What is the cause of it then ? Not years , for she's only five and twenty . 
In patient endurance of evil , she forgets it is our duty to admonish our neighbours of their transgressions . 
He followed me into the library . 
Almost at the commencement of the first letter I had the unexpected pleasure of seeing him blush but he immediately turned his back to me , and finished the perusal at the window . 
At the second , I saw him , once or twice , raise his hand , and hurriedly pass it across his face . 
If you intend to reform , invoke God's blessing , His mercy , and His aid not His curse . 
'God help me , then for I'm sure I need it . 
Where's Milicent ? 'She's there , just coming in with her sister . 
He stepped out at the glass door , and went to meet them . 
I followed at a little distance . 
'Thank her it's her doing . 
Milicent flew to thank me , overflowing with gratitude . 
'Oh , no ! cried she 'I couldn't have influenced him , I'm sure , by anything that I could have said . 
I should only have bothered him by my clumsy efforts at persuasion , if I had made the attempt . 
'You never tried me , Milly , said he . 
Shortly after they took their leave . 
They are now gone on a visit to Hattersley's father . 
After that they will repair to their country home . 
I hope his good resolutions will not fall through , and poor Milicent will not be again disappointed . 
Her last letter was full of present bliss , and pleasing anticipations for the future but no particular temptation has yet occurred to put his virtue to the test . 
Henceforth , however , she will doubtless be somewhat less timid and reserved , and he more kind and thoughtful . 
Surely , then , her hopes are not unfounded and I have one bright spot , at least , whereon to rest my thoughts . 
Mr. Huntingdon returned about three weeks ago . 
His appearance , his demeanour and conversation , and my feelings with regard to him , I shall not trouble myself to describe . 
And poor Rachel , too , came in for her share of abuse , as usual he cannot endure Rachel , because he knows she has a proper appreciation of him . 
This was a rather startling piece of intelligence . 
I ventured to inquire her name and address , by whom she had been recommended , or how he had been led to make choice of her . 
'She is a very estimable , pious young person , said he 'you needn't be afraid . 
Her name is Myers , I believe and she was recommended to me by a respectable old dowager a lady of high repute in the religious world . 
All this was gravely and quietly spoken , but there was a laughing demon in his half averted eye that boded no good , I imagined . 
However , I thought of my asylum in shire , and made no further objections . 
When Miss Myers arrived , I was not prepared to give her a very cordial reception . 
Her attainments were limited , her intellect noways above mediocrity . 
She had a fine voice , and could sing like a nightingale , and accompany herself sufficiently well on the piano but these were her only accomplishments . 
There was a look of guile and subtlety in her face , a sound of it in her voice . 
She seemed afraid of me , and would start if I suddenly approached her . 
In her behaviour she was respectful and complaisant , even to servility she attempted to flatter and fawn upon me at first , but I soon checked that . 
Her fondness for her little pupil was overstrained , and I was obliged to remonstrate with her on the subject of over indulgence and injudicious praise but she could not gain his heart . 
Her piety consisted in an occasional heaving of sighs , and uplifting of eyes to the ceiling , and the utterance of a few cant phrases . 
I asked the name and residence of the kind and pious family . 
She mentioned a common name , and an unknown and distant place of abode , but told me they were now on the Continent , and their present address was unknown to her . 
I did not mention my suspicions to Rachel but she , having sojourned for half a century in this land of sin and sorrow , has learned to be suspicious herself . 
At last , one morning , she entered my chamber with such intelligence that my resolution was taken before she had ceased to speak . 
'But I can't afford to live like a lady now , returned I 'I must be my own maid and my child's nurse . 
'What signifies ! replied she , in some excitement . 
Her voice quavered as she spoke , and the tears stood in her eyes . 
'Then you sha'n't , Rachel ! cried I , embracing my faithful friend . 
'We'll all go together , and you shall see how the new life suits you . 
'Bless you , honey ! cried she , affectionately returning my embrace . 
'Only let us get shut of this wicked house , and we'll do right enough , you'll see . 
'So think I , was my answer and so that point was settled . 
I then gave her his address , exhorted her to write frequently , reiterated some of my former admonitions regarding her own concerns , and bade her a fond farewell . 
The second was to Milicent much to the same effect , but a little more confidential , as befitted our longer intimacy , and her greater experience and better acquaintance with my circumstances . 
I went down to dinner , but I could not force myself to eat . 
Mr. Huntingdon remarked the circumstance . 
'What's to do with you now ? said he , when the removal of the second course gave him time to look about him . 
'Somebody else may fill it to morrow , I thought , but did not say . 
'There ! I've seen the last of you , I hope , I muttered , as I closed the door upon him . 
I took up a book and tried to read my eyes wandered over the pages , but it was impossible to bind my thoughts to their contents . 
Thus several hours have passed away the time is drawing near and now my eyes feel heavy and my frame exhausted . 
I will commend my cause to God , and then lie down and gain an hour or two of sleep and then ! Little Arthur sleeps soundly . 
All the house is still there can be no one watching . 
The boxes were all corded by Benson , and quietly conveyed down the back stairs after dusk , and sent away in a cart to the M coach office . 
The name upon the cards was Mrs. Graham , which appellation I mean henceforth to adopt . 
Thank heaven , I am free and safe at last . 
We were obliged to let one man into our secret on account of the boxes , c . 
Alas ! I could offer no more I had barely sufficient remaining for the probable expenses of the journey . 
All was dark and still no light glimmered in the windows , no wreath of smoke obscured the stars that sparkled above it in the frosty sky . 
There was nothing to disturb my joy but the fear of detection and every step removed us further from the chance of that . 
, and a black silk bonnet , which I had been constrained to borrow of Rachel , for want of such an article myself . 
It was not in the newest fashion , of course but none the worse for that , under present circumstances . 
But the journey was a very long one , and we were all weary enough before the close of it . 
But Arthur was asleep in Rachel's lap , and between us we managed pretty well to shield him from the cold night air . 
Arthur being now awakened by the jolting and the stoppages , we all got out and walked . 
The lane conducted us round by the back way . 
We entered the desolate court , and in breathless anxiety surveyed the ruinous mass . 
Was it all blackness and desolation ? No one faint red glimmer cheered us from a window where the lattice was in good repair . 
I was glad to ascend the stern looking stone staircase , and lie down in the gloomy , old fashioned bed , beside my little Arthur . 
It was little Arthur that roused me , with his gentle kisses . 
The scene , indeed , was not remarkably cheerful in itself , either within or without . 
I shall make him take the last penny I owe him , if I can possibly effect it without offending him too deeply . 
The frame , however , is handsome enough it will serve for another painting . 
It seems Mr. Huntingdon is making every exertion to discover the place of my retreat . 
fancied he knew enough of his sister to enable him to declare , that wherever she might be , or however situated , no consideration would induce her to deliver him up . 
Alas ! my kind neighbours will not let me alone . 
I mean , however , to make the experiment next Sunday , and oblige myself to leave him in charge of Rachel for a few hours . 
It will be a hard task , but surely no imprudence and the vicar has been to scold me for my neglect of the ordinances of religion . 
I have made some further acquaintance with my neighbours . 
The fine gentleman and beau of the parish and its vicinity is a young . 
The rest was torn away . 
I could tell that , as well by those few words as by the recollection of her whole aspect and demeanour towards me in the commencement of our acquaintance . 
Well ! I could readily forgive her prejudice against me , and her hard thoughts of our sex in general , when I saw to what brilliant specimens her experience had been limited . 
On my mother's account , I chose the latter but how willingly I sought my pillow , and how much sleep it brought me , I leave you to imagine . 
At the first appearance of dawn , I rose , and brought the manuscript to the window , but it was impossible to read it yet . 
I devoted half an hour to dressing , and then returned to it again . 
Now , with a little difficulty , I could manage and with intense and eager interest , I devoured the remainder of its contents . 
But I did not think of that a confusion of countless thoughts and varied emotions crowded upon me while I gazed abstractedly on the lovely face of nature . 
Immediately after breakfast I hurried over to Wildfell Hall . 
Rachel had risen many degrees in my estimation since yesterday . 
I was ready to greet her quite as an old friend but every kindly impulse was checked by the look of cold distrust she cast upon me on opening the door . 
'Missis can't see any one to day , sir she's poorly , said she , in answer to my inquiry for Mrs. Graham . 
'But I must see her , Rachel , said I , placing my hand on the door to prevent its being shut against me . 
'Indeed , sir , you can't , replied she , settling her countenance in still more iron frigidity than before . 
'Be so good as to announce me . 
'It's no manner of use , Mr. Markham she's poorly , I tell you . 
He seized my hand between both his , and smilingly drew me forward . 
'Mamma says you're to come in , Mr. Markham , said he , 'and I am to go out and play with Rover . 
Rachel retired with a sigh , and I stepped into the parlour and shut the door . 
There , before the fire place , stood the tall , graceful figure , wasted with many sorrows . 
I cast the manuscript on the table , and looked in her face . 
Anxious and pale , it was turned towards me her clear , dark eyes were fixed on mine with a gaze so intensely earnest that they bound me like a spell . 
'Have you looked it over ? she murmured . 
As I approached , she abruptly turned away , and went to the window . 
It was not in anger , I was well assured , but only to conceal or control her emotion . 
I therefore ventured to follow and stand beside her there , but not to speak . 
You should have told me this before . 
It shows a want of confidence 'Oh , no , cried she , eagerly interrupting me 'it was not that . 
Bitter , indeed , was the tone of anguish , repressed by resolute firmness , in which this was spoken . 
Now , I raised her hand to my lips , and fervently kissed it again and again for tears prevented any other reply . 
She suffered these wild caresses without resistance or resentment then , suddenly turning from me , she paced twice or thrice through the room . 
'Never again , Helen ? just when I love you more than ever . 
'For that very reason , if it be so , we should not meet again . 
I shall leave this place , as soon as I have means to seek another asylum but our intercourse must end here . 
'You must not come again , continued she . 
There was a slight tremor in her voice , but I thought her whole manner was provokingly composed , considering the dreadful sentence she pronounced . 
'Helen , said I , turning impatiently towards her , 'I cannot discuss the matter of eternal separation calmly and dispassionately as you can do . 
It is no question of mere expedience with me it is a question of life and death ! She was silent . 
I had said an unjust and cruel thing but I must needs follow it up with something worse . 
'Gilbert , don't ! she cried , in a tone that would have pierced a heart of adamant . 
'Forgive me , Helen ! pleaded I. 'I will never utter another word on the subject . 
But immediately I added in a quieter tone 'I'll do whatever you desire only don't say that this meeting is to be our last . 
'But we may write , I timidly suggested . 
'You will not deny me that consolation ? 'We can hear of each other through my brother . 
'Your brother ! A pang of remorse and shame shot through me . 
She had not heard of the injury he had sustained at my hands and I had not the courage to tell her . 
'Your brother will not help us , I said 'he would have all communion between us to be entirely at an end . 
'And he would be right , I suppose . 
But don't be afraid , Gilbert , she added , smiling sadly at my manifest discomposure 'there is little chance of my forgetting you . 
'And you are young too , Helen , I boldly replied 'and when that profligate scoundrel has run through his career , you will give your hand to me I'll wait till then . 
But she would not leave me this support . 
Trust me , Gilbert in this matter I know better than you . 
You think me cold and stony hearted , and you may , but 'I don't , Helen . 
'And don't argue against me any more all you can say has been already said by my own heart and refuted by my reason . 
If you knew my present feelings , you would even try to relieve them at the expense of your own . 
'I will go in a minute , if that can relieve you and NEVER return ! said I , with bitter emphasis . 
'I thought of that too , Gilbert , but I feared to mention it , because I feared you would not understand my views upon the subject . 
'Six months ! 'Yes , to give your present ardour time to cool , and try the truth and constancy of your soul's love for mine . 
And now , enough has been said between us . 
Why can't we part at once ? exclaimed she , almost wildly , after a moment's pause , as she suddenly rose from her chair , with her hands resolutely clasped together . 
I thought it was my duty to go without delay and I approached and half extended my hand as if to take leave she grasped it in silence . 
But this thought of final separation was too intolerable it seemed to squeeze the blood out of my heart and my feet were glued to the floor . 
'And must we never meet again ? I murmured , in the anguish of my soul . 
'We shall meet in heaven . 
Let us think of that , said she in a tone of desperate calmness but her eyes glittered wildly , and her face was deadly pale . 
'But not as we are now , I could not help replying . 
'Whatever I am , you will be the same , and , therefore , cannot possibly regret it and whatever that change may be we know it must be for the better . 
'Is your love all earthly , then ? 'No , but I am supposing we shall have no more intimate communion with each other than with the rest . 
'If so , it will be because we love them more , and not each other less . 
Increase of love brings increase of happiness , when it is mutual , and pure as that will be . 
'Now , then , exclaimed she , 'while this hope is strong within us 'We will part , I cried . 
'You shall not have the pain of another effort to dismiss me . 
At length , however , by some heroic effort , we tore ourselves apart , and I rushed from the house . 
There was little business done that day , you may be sure . 
The farm was abandoned to the labourers , and the labourers were left to their own devices . 
But one duty must be attended to I had not forgotten my assault upon Frederick Lawrence and I must see him to apologise for the unhappy deed . 
Arrived at Woodford , the young squire's abode , I found no little difficulty in obtaining admission to his presence . 
The servant that opened the door told me his master was very ill , and seemed to think it doubtful whether he would be able to see me . 
I was not going to be baulked , however . 
I waited calmly in the hall to be announced , but inwardly determined to take no denial . 
The message was such as I expected a polite intimation that Mr. Lawrence could see no one he was feverish , and must not be disturbed . 
'I shall not disturb him long , said I 'but I must see him for a moment it is on business of importance that I wish to speak to him . 
'I'll tell him , sir , said the man . 
And I advanced further into the hall and followed him nearly to the door of the apartment where his master was for it seemed he was not in bed . 
'He may as well see me as you , said I and , stepping past the astonished footman , I boldly rapped at the door , entered , and closed it behind me . 
The room was spacious and handsomely furnished very comfortably , too , for a bachelor . 
The invalid himself looked very interesting as he lay reclining there , in his elegant dressing gown , with a silk handkerchief bound across his temples . 
He dropped it , however , in his start of indignant surprise as I advanced into the room and stood before him on the rug . 
He raised himself on his pillows , and gazed upon me with equal degrees of nervous horror , anger , and amazement depicted on his countenance . 
Markham , I scarcely expected this ! he said and the blood left his cheek as he spoke . 
'I know you didn't , answered I 'but be quiet a minute , and I'll tell you what I came for . 
Unthinkingly , I advanced a step or two nearer . 
He winced at my approach , with an expression of aversion and instinctive physical fear anything but conciliatory to my feelings . 
I stepped back , however . 
I am in no state to bear your brutalities now , or your presence either . 
And in truth the moisture started from his pores and stood on his pale forehead like dew . 
Such a reception was hardly calculated to diminish the difficulties of my unenviable task . 
It must be performed however , in some fashion and so I plunged into it at once , and floundered through it as I could . 
If you don't choose to grant it , I added hastily , not liking the aspect of his face , 'it's no matter only I've done my duty that's all . 
'I forgot to tell you that it was in consequence of a mistake , muttered I. 'I should have made a very handsome apology , but you provoked me so confoundedly with your . 
Well , I suppose it's my fault . 
'And how came you to know that I was her brother ? asked he , in some anxiety . 
She knew I might be trusted . 
I could have groaned aloud at the bitter thoughts awakened by this turn in the discourse . 
But I only clenched my hands and stamped my foot upon the rug . 
My companion , however , was evidently relieved . 
'You have done right , he said , in a tone of unqualified approbation , while his face brightened into almost a sunny expression . 
'And as for the mistake , I am sorry for both our sakes that it should have occurred . 
Perhaps you can forgive my want of candour , and remember , as some partial mitigation of the offence , how little encouragement to friendly confidence you have given me of late . 
'How dry and burning your hand is , Lawrence , said I. 'You are really ill , and I have made you worse by all this talk . 
'Oh , it is nothing only a cold got by the rain . 
She has not heard of my illness , then , that you are aware of ? 'I think not . 
I must contrive to let her know something about it , if I can , continued he , reflectively , 'or she will be hearing some such story . 
Many would be glad to tell her such news , just to see how she would take it and then she might expose herself to fresh scandal . 
'I wish I had told her , said I. 'If it were not for my promise , I would tell her now . 
Most willingly I consented , and immediately brought him his desk . 
There was little need to disguise his hand , for the poor fellow seemed to have considerable difficulty in writing at all , so as to be legible . 
I engaged to do so , and departed with a cordial pressure of the hand . 
I posted the letter on my way home , most manfully resisting the temptation of dropping in a word from myself at the same time . 
I don't think anybody believed me , but everybody soon learned to avoid insinuating a word against her , or even mentioning her name in my presence . 
Rose and Fergus usually shunned my presence and it was well they did , for I was not fit company for them , nor they for me , under the present circumstances . 
Mrs. Huntingdon did not leave Wildfell Hall till above two months after our farewell interview . 
'I've seen her already , said he , quietly . 
'You've seen her ! cried I , in astonishment . 
And then he told me what considerations had impelled him to make the venture , and with what precautions he had made it . 
'And how was she ? I eagerly asked . 
'As usual , was the brief though sad reply . 
'As usual that is , far from happy and far from strong . 
'She is not positively ill , returned he 'and she will recover her spirits in a while , I have no doubt but so many trials have been almost too much for her . 
How threatening those clouds look , continued he , turning towards the window . 
'We shall have thunder showers before night , I imagine , and they are just in the midst of stacking my corn . 
Have you got yours all in yet ? 'No . 
And , Lawrence , did she did your sister mention me ? 'She asked if I had seen you lately . 
'But did she say no more about me ? 'She did not say much about you , Markham . 
'But I fear your anxiety is quite the other way respecting her . 
'No , it is not I wish her to be happy but I don't wish her to forget me altogether . 
She knows it is impossible that I should forget her and she is right to wish me not to remember her too well . 
'From me , said I. 'And I wish you would make the like exertions , continued he . 
But I said no more to him on that subject . 
I instantly started a new topic of conversation , and soon took leave of my companion , with a feeling of less cordiality towards him than usual . 
Perhaps I had no right to be annoyed at him , but I was so nevertheless . 
Had they lived at a distance , he might have surmounted the objection , but within two or three miles of Woodford it was really no light matter . 
'You've been to call on the Wilsons , Lawrence , said I , as I walked beside his pony . 
'It's all Miss Wilson's doing . 
'Let us drop that subject if you please , said he , in evident displeasure . 
'I never told you , Markham , that I intended to marry Miss Wilson , said he , proudly . 
'No , but whether you do or not , she intends to marry you . 
'Did she tell you so ? 'No , but 'Then you have no right to make such an assertion respecting her . 
He slightly quickened his pony's pace , but I laid my hand on its mane , determined he should not leave me yet . 
'Wait a moment , Lawrence , and let me explain myself and don't be so very I don't know what to call it inaccessible as you are . 
'Have you done ? asked my companion quietly . 
'Yes I know you hate me for my impertinence , but I don't care if it only conduces to preserve you from that fatal mistake . 
As for Jane Wilson , she , of course , was disappointed and embittered by the sudden cold neglect and ultimate desertion of her former admirer . 
CHAPTER XLVII One morning , about the beginning of November , while I was inditing some business letters , shortly after breakfast , Eliza Millward came to call upon my sister . 
Rose had neither the discrimination nor the virulence to regard the little demon as I did , and they still preserved their former intimacy . 
But she wanted to tease me . 
'What a pleasure it is to find you at home , Mr. Markham ! said she , with a disingenuously malicious smile . 
'I so seldom see you now , for you never come to the vicarage . 
'I have had a good deal to do of late , said I , without looking up from my letter . 
'Have you , indeed ! Somebody said you had been strangely neglecting your business these last few months . 
'Somebody said wrong , for , these last two months especially , I have been particularly plodding and diligent . 
Formerly , said she timidly , 'I could have ventured to ask you what it was , and what I could do to comfort you I dare not do it now . 
'You're very kind , Miss Eliza . 
When I think you can do anything to comfort me , I'll make bold to tell you . 
'Pray do ! I suppose I mayn't guess what it is that troubles you ? 'There's no necessity , for I'll tell you plainly . 
It's about that sad Mrs. Graham 'Hush sh sh ! whispered Fergus , in a tone of solemn import . 
We never mention her her name is never heard . 
'I should be sorry to injure any one's feelings , returned she , speaking below her breath . 
'Speak out , Miss Eliza ! said I , not deigning to notice the other's buffooneries 'you needn't fear to say anything in my presence . 
'I had it from a very authentic source . 
'From whom , may I ask ? 'From one of the servants at Woodford . 
'Oh ! I was not aware that you were on such intimate terms with Mr. Lawrence's household . 
'It was not from the man himself that I heard it , but he told it in confidence to our maid Sarah , and Sarah told it to me . 
But it was possible barely possible that some one might have betrayed her , and she had been taken away by force . 
I found its owner pensively strolling in the grounds . 
'Is your sister gone ? were my first words as I grasped his hand , instead of the usual inquiry after his health . 
'Yes , she's gone , was his answer , so calmly spoken that my terror was at once removed . 
My companion gravely took my arm , and leading me away to the garden , thus answered my question , 'She is at Grassdale Manor , in shire . 
'Where ? cried I , with a convulsive start . 
'How was it ? I gasped . 
'Who betrayed her ? 'She went of her own accord . 
'Impossible , Lawrence ! She could not be so frantic ! exclaimed I , vehemently grasping his arm , as if to force him to unsay those hateful words . 
'She did , persisted he in the same grave , collected manner as before 'and not without reason , he continued , gently disengaging himself from my grasp . 
'And so she went to nurse him ? 'Yes . 
'Fool ! I could not help exclaiming , and Lawrence looked up with a rather reproachful glance . 
'Is he dying , then ? 'I think not , Markham . 
'And how many more nurses has he ? How many ladies are there besides to take care of him ? 'None he was alone , or she would not have gone . 
'Humbug ! 'I was half inclined to say so myself , Markham , at first . 
, and to tell her that that unhappy person , Miss Myers , had left him some time ago . 
'There does not appear to be much ground for such apprehensions at present , said he , producing a letter from his pocket . 
He was evidently reluctant to grant the request , but while he hesitated I snatched it from his hand . 
Recollecting myself , however , the minute after , I offered to restore it . 
'Here , take it , said I , 'if you don't want me to read it . 
'No , replied he , 'you may read it if you like . 
I read it , and so may you . 
Dear Frederick , I know you will be anxious to hear from me , and I will tell you all I can . 
Mr. Huntingdon is very ill , but not dying , or in any immediate danger and he is rather better at present than he was when I came . 
A professional nurse , a grim , hard old woman , had been hired to attend the wretched invalid . 
He suffers much , and has no fortitude to bear him through . 
On the night of my arrival , when I first entered his room , he was lying in a kind of half delirium . 
He did not notice me till I spoke , and then he mistook me for another . 
'Is it you , Alice , come again ? he murmured . 
'What did you leave me for ? 'It is I , Arthur it is Helen , your wife , I replied . 
'My wife ! said he , with a start . 
'For heaven's sake , don't mention her I have none . 
For a long time he lay silently looking upon me , first with a vacant stare , then with a fixed gaze of strange growing intensity . 
'I must be going mad , cried he , 'or something delirious , perhaps but leave me , whoever you are . 
I can't bear that white face , and those eyes . 
Stay with me , do ! That old hag will be the death of me . 
'I mean to stay with you , said I. And after that he would call me Alice , or some other name almost equally repugnant to my feelings . 
I could swear at this moment that she was by my side . 
'She is , said I. 'That seems comfortable , continued he , without noticing my words 'and while you do it , the other fancies fade away but this only strengthens . 
Go on go on , till it vanishes , too . 
'I can't understand it at all , said he , in bewildered perplexity . 
'Was it a dream that and he covered his eyes with his hands , as if trying to unravel the mystery . 
You need not fear to trust me tell me all your wants , and I will try to satisfy them . 
There is no one else to care for you and I shall not upbraid you now . 
What have you done with my son ? 'He is well , and you may see him some time , if you will compose yourself , but not now . 
'Where is he ? 'He is safe . 
But we will talk of that to morrow you must be quiet now . 
'No , let me see him now , I promise , if it must be so . 
'No 'I swear it , as God is in heaven ! Now , then , let me see him . 
'But I cannot trust your oaths and promises I must have a written agreement , and you must sign it in presence of a witness but not to day to morrow . 
He begged I would not insist upon this it was a useless exposure of my want of faith in his word to the servant . 
I told him I was sorry , but since he had forfeited my confidence , he must take the consequence . 
He next pleaded inability to hold the pen . 
'Then we must wait until you can hold it , said I. Upon which he said he would try but then he could not see to write . 
I placed my finger where the signature was to be , and told him he might write his name in the dark , if he only knew where to put it . 
But he had not power to form the letters . 
'Come here , Arthur , said the latter , extending his hand towards him . 
The child went , and timidly touched that burning hand , but almost started in alarm , when his father suddenly clutched his arm and drew him nearer to his side . 
'Do you know me ? asked Mr. Huntingdon , intently perusing his features . 
'Who am I ? 'Papa . 
'Are you glad to see me ? 'Yes . 
'You're not ! replied the disappointed parent , relaxing his hold , and darting a vindictive glance at me . 
Arthur , thus released , crept back to me and put his hand in mine . 
His father swore I had made the child hate him , and abused and cursed me bitterly . 
The invalid only replied by groaning aloud , and rolling his head on a pillow in a paroxysm of impatience . 
'I am in hell , already ! cried he . 
'Yes I'll give you another opportunity of showing your Christian magnanimity , sneered he 'set my pillow straight , and these confounded bed clothes . 
'There now get me another glass of that slop . 
Next morning the doctor ordered him to be bled and after that he was more subdued and tranquil . 
I passed half the day in his room at different intervals . 
But on the morrow , that is to say , in proportion as he recovered from the state of exhaustion and stupefaction , his ill nature appeared to revive . 
'Oh , this sweet revenge ! cried he , when I had been doing all I could to make him comfortable and to remedy the carelessness of his nurse . 
'And you can enjoy it with such a quiet conscience too , because it's all in the way of duty . 
'What reward did you look for ? he asked . 
Since you came , I confess , I have had better attendance than before , for these wretches neglected me shamefully , and all my old friends seem to have fairly forsaken me . 
'There now ! you want to scare me to death . 
'No but I don't want to lull you to false security . 
I can't stand it , I tell you . 
I've sufferings enough without that . 
If you think there's danger , save me from it and then , in gratitude , I'll hear whatever you like to say . 
I accordingly dropped the unwelcome topic . 
And now , Frederick , I think I may bring my letter to a close . 
From these details you may form your own judgment of the state of my patient , and of my own position and future prospects . 
Good by , dear Frederick . 
'What do you think of it ? said Lawrence , as I silently refolded the letter . 
'It seems to me , returned I , 'that she is casting her pearls before swine . 
And so I kept it otherwise , Halford , you could never have become so thoroughly acquainted with its contents . 
You see I know the address , and I might write to her myself , but I am so virtuous as to refrain . 
'Well , I'll do this for you , Markham . 
'And as soon as you receive an answer , you'll let me know ? 'If all be well , I'll come myself and tell you immediately . 
This one he was quite willing to submit to my longing gaze he thought , I suppose , it would do me good . 
The only answer it gave to my message was this 'Mr . 
Markham is at liberty to make such revelations concerning me as he judges necessary . 
He will know that I should wish but little to be said on the subject . 
I hope he is well but tell him he must not think of me . 
I can give you a few extracts from the rest of the letter , for I was permitted to keep this also perhaps , as an antidote to all pernicious hopes and fancies . 
He is decidedly better , but very low from the depressing effects of his severe illness and the strict regimen he is obliged to observe so opposite to all his previous habits . 
It is deplorable to see how completely his past life has degenerated his once noble constitution , and vitiated the whole system of his organization . 
But the doctor says he may now be considered out of danger , if he will only continue to observe the necessary restrictions . 
Some stimulating cordials he must have , but they should be judiciously diluted and sparingly used and I find it very difficult to keep him to this . 
Now , also , his appetite for food is beginning to return and here , too , his long habits of self indulgence are greatly against him . 
But he is now so completely reconciled to my attendance in general that he is never satisfied when I am not by his side . 
But all this I can readily pardon I know it is chiefly the result of his enfeebled frame and disordered nerves . 
'Helen , what do you mean to do when I get well ? he asked this morning . 
'Will you run away again ? 'It entirely depends upon your own conduct . 
'Oh , I'll be very good . 
'Oh , but you shall have no cause . 
And then followed a variety of professions , which I rather coldly checked . 
'Will you not forgive me , then ? said he . 
and if you wish me to feel kindly towards you , it is deeds not words which must purchase my affection and esteem . 
His sole reply to this was a slight grimace , and a scarcely perceptible shrug . 
I have I seen Esther Hargrave twice . 
The unnatural parent seems determined to make her daughter's life a burden , if she will not yield to her desires . 
'But , however , I know you have better motives , really , for your perseverance and I counsel you to keep them still in view . 
I threaten mamma sometimes that I'll run away , and disgrace the family by earning my own livelihood , if she torments me any more and then that frightens her a little . 
But I will do it , in good earnest , if they don't mind . 
'Be quiet and patient a while , said I , 'and better times will come . 
I fear she leads him a rather uncomfortable life , though , happily , he is too dull to perceive the extent of his misfortune . 
CHAPTER XLIX Though Mr. Lawrence's health was now quite re established , my visits to Woodford were as unremitting as ever though often less protracted than before . 
But I always began to talk of other things , and waited first to see if he would introduce the subject . 
, however Helen might feel interested in her husband's welfare , however she might deplore his fate , still while he lived she must be miserable . 
A fortnight passed away , and my inquiries were always answered in the negative . 
At length a welcome 'yes' drew from me the second question . 
Lawrence divined my anxious thoughts , and appreciated my reserve . 
'And serve you right , you will say but he was more merciful and in a little while he put his sister's letter into my hand . 
I silently read it , and restored it to him without comment or remark . 
most deeply regrets the step that has occasioned his relapse but , as usual , he throws the blame upon me . 
He forgets how often I had reasoned him 'past his patience' before . 
He appears to be sensible of his danger but nothing can induce him to behold it in the proper light . 
But do you prefer sinking , without an effort , into the state of torment you picture to yourself ? 'Oh , it's all a fable , said he , contemptuously . 
I can't and won't , he added vehemently , as if suddenly struck with the appalling aspect of that terrible event . 
The next letter brought intelligence that the malady was fast increasing and the poor sufferer's horror of death was still more distressing than his impatience of bodily pain . 
All his friends had not forsaken him for Mr. Hattersley , hearing of his danger , had come to see him from his distant home in the north . 
His wife had accompanied him , as much for the pleasure of seeing her dear friend , from whom she had been parted so long , as to visit her mother and sister . 
Mrs. Huntingdon expressed herself glad to see Milicent once more , and pleased to behold her so happy and well . 
She is now at the Grove , continued the letter , but she often calls to see me . 
Mr. Hattersley spends much of his time at Arthur's bed side . 
With more good feeling than I gave him credit for , he evinces considerable sympathy for his unhappy friend , and is far more willing than able to comfort him . 
Our poor invalid evidently felt it a heartless proposition , and would have felt it still more heartless in me to accede to it . 
I therefore said I would only go and speak to them a minute , and then come back . 
I had not been absent five minutes , but he reproached me bitterly for my levity and neglect . 
His friend espoused my cause . 
Look at her , man ! she's worn to a shadow already . 
'What are her sufferings to mine ? said the poor invalid . 
'You don't grudge me these attentions , do you , Helen ? 'No , Arthur , if I could really serve you by them . 
I would give my life to save you , if I might . 
'Would you , indeed ? No ! 'Most willingly I would . 
'Ah ! that's because you think yourself more fit to die ! There was a painful pause . 
'No none of them can benefit me if she can't , was the answer . 
'It's too late now , said he despondingly . 
He has been quieter since and now Hattersley has left him , expressing a hope that he shall find him better when he calls to morrow . 
'Perhaps I may recover , he replied 'who knows ? This may have been the crisis . 
But he was determined to hope . 
Shortly after he relapsed into a kind of doze , but now he groans again . 
Suddenly he called me to his side , with such a strange , excited manner , that I feared he was delirious , but he was not . 
'That was the crisis , Helen ! said he , delightedly . 
'I had an infernal pain here it is quite gone now . 
I immediately sent for the doctor we are now anxiously awaiting him . 
I will tell you what he says . 
There is still the same freedom from pain , the same deadness to all sensation where the suffering was most acute . 
My worst fears are realised mortification has commenced . 
The doctor has told him there is no hope . 
No words can describe his anguish . 
I can write no more . 
The next was still more distressing in the tenor of its contents . 
The sufferer was fast approaching dissolution dragged almost to the verge of that awful chasm he trembled to contemplate , from which no agony of prayers or tears could save him . 
Nothing could comfort him now Hattersley's rough attempts at consolation were utterly in vain . 
The world was nothing to him life and all its interests , its petty cares and transient pleasures , were a cruel mockery . 
'If I try , said his afflicted wife , 'to divert him from these things to raise his thoughts to higher themes , it is no better Worse and worse ! he groans . 
He keeps me night and day beside him . 
If I withdraw my hand for a moment it distresses him . 
Stay with me , Helen , he says let me hold you so it seems as if harm could not reach me while you are here . 
You only regret the past for its consequences to yourself ? Just so except that I'm sorry to have wronged you , Nell , because you're so good to me . 
Think of the goodness of God , and you cannot but be grieved to have offended Him . 
What is God ? I cannot see Him or hear Him . 
God is only an idea . 
'But he only shook his head and sighed . 
I did my best to soothe and comfort him . 
You needn't let that distress you , I said we shall all follow you soon enough . 
I wish to God I could take you with me now ! he exclaimed you should plead for me . 
'But I seem to speak in vain . 
He does not now , as formerly , laugh these blessed truths to scorn but still he cannot trust , or will not comprehend them . 
He suffers dreadfully , and so do those that wait upon him . 
But I will not harass you with further details I have said enough , I think , to convince you that I did well to go to him . 
The next day but one there came another letter . 
That too was put into my hands without a remark , and these are its contents Dec . 
He is gone at last . 
I sat beside him all night , with my hand fast looked in his , watching the changes of his features and listening to his failing breath . 
It was not grief it was exhaustion , that , till then , I had been enabled successfully to combat . 
If you will attend the funeral , come quickly , for I need help . 
CHAPTER L On reading this I had no reason to disguise my joy and hope from Frederick Lawrence , for I had none to be ashamed of . 
'You will go to her , Lawrence ? said I , as I put the letter into his hand . 
'That's right ! I'll leave you , then , to prepare for your departure . 
'I've done that already , while you were reading the letter , and before you came and the carriage is now coming round to the door . 
Inly approving his promptitude , I bade him good morning , and withdrew . 
Had I forgotten my own prospects , my ardent love , my pertinacious hopes ? It seemed like sacrilege to revert to them now , but I had not forgotten them . 
she had never mentioned me but once and that was from necessity . 
So that you see I had reasons enough for despair if I chose to indulge it . 
Nevertheless , it was with no small degree of impatience that I looked forward to Mr. Lawrence's return from Grassdale impatience that increased in proportion as his absence was prolonged . 
He stayed away some ten or twelve days . 
'And he was in the right of it , you will say . 
, my future proceedings should be regulated by her reply . 
He never offered to show me his sister's letters now , and I never hinted a wish to see them . 
She was with him when he died , and had assisted her aunt to nurse him during the last stage of his illness . 
But week followed week , and every time I inquired about her she was still at Staningley . 
'Where is Staningley ? I asked at last . 
'In shire , was the brief reply and there was something so cold and dry in the manner of it , that I was effectually deterred from requesting a more definite account . 
'When will she return to Grassdale ? was my next question . 
'Confound it ! I muttered . 
'Why , Markham ? asked my companion , with an air of innocent surprise . 
You see Lawrence and I somehow could not manage to get on very well together . 
The fact is , I believe , we were both of us a little too touchy . 
It is a troublesome thing , Halford , this susceptibility to affronts where none are intended . 
, several weeks elapsed before I saw my friend again . 
When we did meet , it was he that sought me out . 
One bright morning , early in June , he came into the field , where I was just commencing my hay harvest . 
'It is long since I saw you , Markham , said he , after the first few words had passed between us . 
'Do you never mean to come to Woodford again ? 'I called once , and you were out . 
'Where are you going ? 'To Grassdale first , said he , with a half smile he would willingly have suppressed if he could . 
He did not return till towards the latter end of August . 
I would wait , however , till he came back perhaps I could get something more out of him then . 
When she was returned to the silence and solitude of her own home , it would be my fittest opportunity . 
When Lawrence came , however , he was as reserved as ever on the subject of my keen anxiety . 
Some time before Mr. Huntingdon's death Lady Lowborough eloped with another gallant to the Continent , where , having lived a while in reckless gaiety and dissipation , they quarrelled and parted . 
Her husband , however , upon this second misdemeanour , immediately sought and obtained a divorce , and , not long after , married again . 
It was well he did , for Lord Lowborough , morose and moody as he seemed , was not the man for a bachelor's life . 
, could compensate to him for the absence of domestic comforts and endearments . 
The second object of his choice was widely different from the first . 
Some wondered at his taste some even ridiculed it but in this their folly was more apparent than his . 
The lady was about his own age i . 
These qualities , however , as you way readily imagine , combined to render her an excellent mother to the children , and an invaluable wife to his lordship . 
, and his fine family of stalwart sons and blooming daughters . 
, is celebrated throughout the country for his noble breed of horses . 
I remember it well , for I was walking home from the vicarage with no less remarkable a personage than Miss Eliza Millward by my side . 
could excuse such a step nor even that , for in such a case she ought to appeal to the laws for protection . 
But it was not of him I intended to speak it was of his daughter Eliza . 
Just as I was taking leave of the vicar , she entered the room , ready equipped for a walk . 
'I was just coming to see , your sister , Mr. Markham , said she 'and so , if you have no objection , I'll accompany you home . 
I like company when I'm walking out don't you ? 'Yes , when it's agreeable . 
'That of course , rejoined the young lady , smiling archly . 
'Shall I find Rose at home , do you think ? said she , as we closed the garden gate , and set our faces towards Linden Car . 
'I trust I shall , for I've a little bit of news for her if you haven't forestalled me . 
'I ? 'Yes do you know what Mr. Lawrence is gone for ? She looked up anxiously for my reply . 
'Is he gone ? said I and her face brightened . 
'Ah ! then he hasn't told you about his sister ? 'What of her ? I demanded in terror , lest some evil should have befallen her . 
'Oh , Mr. Markham , how you blush ! cried she , with a tormenting laugh . 
'Ha , ha , you have not forgotten her yet . 
'Do you charge me with a falsehood , sir ? 'You are misinformed . 
'Am I ? Do you know better , then ? 'I think I do . 
'What makes you look so pale then ? said she , smiling with delight at my emotion . 
She did tell me the name of the gentleman , but I've forgotten that . 
Perhaps you can assist me to remember it . 
'You're right , cried she 'that was the very name . 
'Impossible , Miss Eliza ! I exclaimed , in a tone that made her start . 
'Well , you know , that's what they told me , said she , composedly staring me in the face . 
And then she broke out into a long shrill laugh that put me to my wit's end with fury . 
'Really you must excuse me , cried she . 
'Have done with this nonsense ! cried I , sternly . 
She looked confounded almost frightened again , for a moment . 
'You know I hate such jests , I continued . 
and turned aside into the fields , springing up the bank , and pushing through the nearest gap in the hedge . 
'Is Mr. Lawrence at home ? I eagerly asked of the servant that opened the door . 
'No , sir , master went yesterday , replied he , looking very alert . 
'Went where ? 'To Grassdale , sir wasn't you aware , sir ? He's very close , is master , said the fellow , with a foolish , simpering grin . 
'I suppose , sir But I turned and left him , without waiting to hear what he supposed . 
I was not going to stand there to expose my tortured feelings to the insolent laughter and impertinent curiosity of a fellow like that . 
But what was to be done now ? Could it be possible that she had left me for that man ? I could not believe it . 
, and fly to Grassdale I must be there before the marriage . 
I told my mother that urgent business which admitted no delay , but which I could not then explain , called me away . 
My deep anxiety and serious preoccupation could not be concealed from her maternal eyes and I had much ado to calm her apprehensions of some disastrous mystery . 
That night there came a heavy fall of snow , which so retarded the progress of the coaches on the following day that I was almost driven to distraction . 
I travelled all night , of course , for this was Wednesday to morrow morning , doubtless , the marriage would take place . 
It was broad daylight when we entered M and drew up at the 'Rose and Crown . 
I alighted and called aloud for a post chaise to Grassdale . 
There was none to be had the only one in the town was under repair . 
'A gig , then a fly car anything only be quick ! There was a gig , but not a horse to spare . 
I had no time to think of them , however aching with weariness and desperation , I hurried on . 
The gig did not overtake me and it was well I had not waited for it vexatious rather , that I had been fool enough to wait so long . 
At length , however , I entered the neighbourhood of Grassdale . 
I ran in among them , demanding , with breathless eagerness , had the ceremony long commenced ? They only gaped and stared . 
Forth came the bride and bridegroom . 
Him I saw not I had eyes for none but her . 
'Is that you , Markham ? said he , startled and confounded at the apparition perhaps , too , at the wildness of my looks . 
'Yes , Lawrence is that you ? I mustered the presence of mind to reply . 
'Allow me to introduce you to my bride , said he , endeavouring to hide his embarrassment by an assumption of careless gaiety . 
'Esther , this is Mr. Markham my friend Markham , Mrs. Lawrence , late Miss Hargrave . 
I bowed to the bride , and vehemently wrung the bridegroom's hand . 
'I did tell you , said he , with an air of guilty confusion 'you received my letter ? 'What letter ? 'The one announcing my intended marriage . 
'I never received the most distant hint of such an intention . 
'It must have crossed you on your way then it should have reached you yesterday morning it was rather late , I acknowledge . 
'And so cold as it is too ! said he , glancing with dismay at her slight drapery , and immediately handing her into the carriage . 
'Markham , will you come ? We are going to Paris , but we can drop you anywhere between this and Dover . 
Good by I needn't wish you a pleasant journey but I shall expect a very handsome apology , some time , mind , and scores of letters , before we meet again . 
He shook my hand , and hastened to take his place beside his lady . 
He only answered with a kiss , and pressed her still closer to his bosom . 
'But what is this ? he murmured . 
'Why , Esther , you're crying now ! 'Oh , it's nothing it's only too much happiness and the wish , sobbed she , 'that our dear Helen were as happy as ourselves . 
What did he think ? Could he grudge such happiness to his dear sister and his friend as he now felt himself ? At such a moment it was impossible . 
The contrast between her fate and his must darken his bliss for a time . 
I exonerated him from that charge now , and deeply lamented my former ungenerous suspicions but he had wronged us , still I hoped , I trusted that he had . 
Well might the servant say his master was 'very close . 
CHAPTER LII The tardy gig had overtaken me at last . 
I entered it , and bade the man who brought it drive to Grassdale Manor I was too busy with my own thoughts to care to drive it myself . 
But my companion , a loquacious , forward fellow , was not disposed to leave me to the indulgence of my private cogitations . 
'There they go ! said he , as the carriages filed away before us . 
'There'll be brave doings on yonder to day , as what come to morra . 
Know anything of that family , sir ? or you're a stranger in these parts ? 'I know them by report . 
'Humph ! There's the best of 'em gone , anyhow . 
is coming down to live at the Grove . 
'Is Mr. Hargrave married , then ? 'Ay , sir , a few months since . 
This one isn't quite as rich , nor as handsome either , but she hasn't been married before . 
Ay , and she'll find him harder and carelesser nor she thinks on . 
'You seem to be well acquainted with him , I observed . 
'I am , sir I've known him since he was quite a young gentleman and a proud 'un he was , and a wilful . 
'Are we not near the house ? said I , interrupting him . 
'Yes , sir yond's the park . 
My heart sank within me to behold that stately mansion in the midst of its expansive grounds . 
There was one comfort , however , all this was entailed upon little Arthur , and could not under any circumstances , strictly speaking , be his mother's . 
, and the small additional sum that had been settled upon her before marriage . 
Before the close of the explanation we drew up at the park gates . 
If I should find her within but alas ! she might be still at Staningley her brother had given me no intimation to the contrary . 
I inquired at the porter's lodge if Mrs. Huntingdon were at home . 
No , she was with her aunt in shire , but was expected to return before Christmas . 
'Near what town is Staningley situated ? I asked . 
The requisite information was soon obtained . 
'Now then , my man , give me the reins , and we'll return to M . 
I must have some breakfast at the Rose and Crown , and then away to Staningley by the first coach for . 
, to assure her that I was still in existence , and to excuse my non appearance at the expected time . 
It was a clear , frosty morning . 
Towards the close of the journey , however , a couple of my fellow passengers kindly came to my assistance , and brought me low enough . 
'Ay , responded the other , a gruff elderly man , with a drab greatcoat buttoned up to the chin , and a cotton umbrella between his knees . 
'It's old Maxwell's , I suppose . 
'It was his , sir but he's dead now , you're aware , and has left it all to his niece . 
'It's strange , sir ! 'It is , sir and she wasn't his own niece neither . 
But he had no near relations of his own none but a nephew he'd quarrelled with and he always had a partiality for this one . 
And then his wife advised him to it , they say she'd brought most of the property , and it was her wish that this lady should have it . 
'Humph ! She'll be a fine catch for somebody . 
'ha , ha , ha ! No offence , sir , I hope ? . 
'Ahem ! I should think she'll marry none but a nobleman myself . 
Hallo ! what now ? This exclamation was occasioned by the sudden stoppage of the coach at the park gates . 
'Gen'leman for Staningley Hall ? cried the coachman and I rose and threw my carpet bag on to the ground , preparatory to dropping myself down after it . 
'Sickly , sir ? asked my talkative neighbour , staring me in the face . 
I daresay it was white enough . 
Here , coachman ! 'Thank'ee , sir . 
No ! The very idea was intolerable . 
'Adieu then , dear Helen , forever ! Forever adieu ! So said I and yet I could not tear myself away . 
CHAPTER LIII While standing thus , absorbed in my gloomy reverie , a gentleman's carriage came round the corner of the road . 
The carriage stopped immediately , and I looked up and met the eye of a pale , grave , elderly lady surveying me from the open window . 
'I I came to see the place , faltered I. 'The place , repeated she , in a tone which betokened more displeasure or disappointment than surprise . 
'Will you not enter it , then ? 'If you wish it . 
'Can you doubt ? 'Yes , yes ! he must enter , cried Arthur , running round from the other door and seizing my hand in both his , he shook it heartily . 
'Do you remember me , sir ? said he . 
'Am I not grown ? said he , stretching himself up to his full height . 
'Grown ! three inches , upon my word ! 'I was seven last birthday , was the proud rejoinder . 
'In seven years more I shall be as tall as you nearly . 
'Arthur , said his mother , 'tell him to come in . 
There was a touch of sadness as well as coldness in her voice , but I knew not to what to ascribe it . 
The carriage drove on and entered the gates before us . 
My little companion led me up the park , discoursing merrily all the way . 
Helen eyed me as I entered with a kind of gentle , serious scrutiny , and politely asked after Mrs. Markham and Rose . 
I respectfully answered her inquiries . 
Mrs. Maxwell begged me to be seated , observing it was rather cold , but she supposed I had not travelled far that morning . 
'Not quite twenty miles , I answered . 
'Not on foot ! 'No , Madam , by coach . 
'Here's Rachel , sir , said Arthur , the only truly happy one amongst us , directing my attention to that worthy individual , who had just entered to take her mistress's things . 
When Helen was divested of her lugubrious bonnet and veil , her heavy winter cloak , c . 
, she looked so like herself that I knew not how to bear it . 
I was particularly glad to see her beautiful black hair , unstinted still , and unconcealed in its glossy luxuriance . 
'Mamma has left off her widow's cap in honour of uncle's marriage , observed Arthur , reading my looks with a child's mingled simplicity and quickness of observation . 
Mamma looked grave and Mrs. Maxwell shook her head . 
'Nobody dead ? nobody married ? 'No . 
'I believe not , I answered . 
'Certainly not , if others are as little changed as I. Her face glowed in sympathy with mine . 
'And you really did not mean to call ? she exclaimed . 
'To intrude ! cried she , with an impatient gesture . 
Markham is over modest , observed Mrs. Maxwell . 
'Over ceremonious rather , said her niece 'over well , it's no matter . 
'You judged of others by yourself , muttered she without raising her eyes from the book , but reddening as she spoke , and hastily turning over a dozen leaves at once . 
Mrs. Maxwell then withdrew to take off her things . 
The child obeyed with alacrity but I continued caressing the dog . 
'I am not changed , Helen unfortunately I am as keen and passionate as ever it is not I , it is circumstances that are changed . 
'I thought an interview would only disturb your peace and madden me . 
There was a moment's pause . 
Mrs. Huntingdon moved away , and stood in the recess of the window . 
I was not going to do more , continued she , smiling , 'so long as you continued to restrict yourself to a few polite inquiries about my health . 
'Your brother never told me that you had mentioned my name . 
'Did you ever ask him ? 'No for I saw he did not wish to be questioned about you , or to afford the slightest encouragement or assistance to my too obstinate attachment . 
'And he was perfectly right , added I. But she remained in silence , looking out upon the snowy lawn . 
'Are you going already ? said she , taking the hand I offered , and not immediately letting it go . 
'Why should I stay any longer ? 'Wait till Arthur comes , at least . 
Only too glad to obey , I stood and leant against the opposite side of the window . 
'You told me you were not changed , said my companion 'you are very much so . 
'No , Mrs. Huntingdon , I only ought to be . 
'Do you mean to maintain that you have the same regard for me that you had when last we met ? 'I have but it would be wrong to talk of it now . 
'It was wrong to talk of it then , Gilbert it would not now unless to do so would be to violate the truth . 
Look , Gilbert , it is still fresh and blooming as a flower can be , with the cold snow even now on its petals . 
Will you have it ? I held out my hand I dared not speak lest my emotion should overmaster me . 
'Helen , what means this ? I cried , electrified at this startling change in her demeanour . 
'You did not understand my gift , said she 'or , what is worse , you despised it . 
I'm sorry I gave it you but since I did make such a mistake , the only remedy I could think of was to take it away . 
'And will this content you ? said she , as she took it in her hand . 
'It shall , I answered . 
'There , then take it . 
I pressed it earnestly to my lips , and put it in my bosom , Mrs. Huntingdon looking on with a half sarcastic smile . 
'Now , are you going ? said she . 
'I will if if I must . 
'You are changed , persisted she 'you are grown either very proud or very indifferent . 
'I am neither , Helen Mrs. Huntingdon . 
If you could see my heart 'You must be one , if not both . 
And why Mrs. Huntingdon ? why not Helen , as before ? 'Helen , then dear Helen ! I murmured . 
I was in an agony of mingled love , hope , delight , uncertainty , and suspense . 
If you have not sufficient confidence in my affection to believe this , let me alone . 
But have you thought of your aunt ? I trembled for the answer , and clasped her closer to my heart in the instinctive dread of losing my new found treasure . 
'My aunt must not know of it yet , said she . 
'She would think it a rash , wild step , because she could not imagine how well I know you but she must know you herself , and learn to like you . 
'No in another year , replied she , gently disengaging herself from my embrace , but still fondly clasping my hand . 
'Another year ! Oh , Helen , I could not wait so long ! 'Where is your fidelity ? 'I mean I could not endure the misery of so long a separation . 
'It would not be a separation we will write every day my spirit shall be always with you , and sometimes you shall see me with your bodily eye . 
Now are you satisfied ? She looked up in my face with a smile of ineffable tenderness . 
And besides , winter is such a dreary season . 
'Next spring ? 'No , no next autumn , perhaps . 
'Summer , then ? 'Well , the close of summer . 
There now ! be satisfied . 
While she was speaking Arthur re entered the room good boy for keeping out so long . 
, 'but Rachel got it for me at last . 
I had not looked through half the book before Mrs. Maxwell appeared to invite me into the other room to lunch . 
'By all means , dearest Helen ! do what you will with your own . 
I know she must be pained to part with you , and I am willing to make any reparation in my power . 
I love her for your sake , and her happiness shall be as dear to me as that of my own mother . 
'Thank you , darling ! you shall have a kiss for that . 
There now there , Gilbert let me go here's Arthur don't astonish his infantile brain with your madness . 
But it is time to bring my narrative to a close . 
Any one but you would say I had made it too long already . 
I did come again in spring , and , agreeably to Helen's injunctions , did my best to cultivate her acquaintance . 
She received me very kindly , having been , doubtless , already prepared to think highly of my character by her niece's too favourable report . 
I turned my best side out , of course , and we got along marvellously well together . 
When my ambitious intentions were made known to her , she took it more sensibly than I had ventured to hope . 
Her only remark on the subject , in my hearing , was 'And so , Mr. Markham , you are going to rob me of my niece , I understand . 
Well ! I hope God will prosper your union , and make my dear girl happy at last . 
Of course I was delighted with the compliment , and hoped to show her that she was not mistaken in her favourable judgment . 
'I have , however , one request to offer , continued she . 
, but only to the few loving friends and grateful dependents she left behind . 
To return , however , to my own affairs I was married in summer , on a glorious August morning . 
Yet she was gratified at her son's good fortune after all , and proudly attributed it all to his own superior merits and endowments . 
Till then , farewell , GILBERT MARKHAM . 
