Had Phaidor's slim blade found that beloved heart ? Time only would reveal the truth . 
Six hundred and eighty seven Martian days must come and go before the cell's door would again come opposite the tunnel's end where last I had seen my ever beautiful Dejah Thoris . 
I saw the red girl , Thuvia of Ptarth , leap forward to prevent the hideous deed . 
The smoke from the burning temple had come then to blot out the tragedy , but in my ears rang the single shriek as the knife fell . 
Then silence , and when the smoke had cleared , the revolving temple had shut off all sight or sound from the chamber in which the three beautiful women were imprisoned . 
In their rage they had torn her to pieces . 
From the high pinnacle of their egotism the First Born had been plunged to the depths of humiliation . 
Their deity was gone , and with her the whole false fabric of their religion . 
Their vaunted navy had fallen in defeat before the superior ships and fighting men of the red men of Helium . 
Almost unanimous was the request that I ascend the ancient throne of the black men , even the First Born themselves concurring in it but I would have none of it . 
My heart could never be with the race that had heaped indignities upon my princess and my son . 
At my suggestion Xodar became Jeddak of the First Born . 
He had been a dator , or prince , until Issus had degraded him , so that his fitness for the high office bestowed was unquestioned . 
The peace of the Valley Dor thus assured , the green warriors dispersed to their desolate sea bottoms , while we of Helium returned to our own country . 
Once again I refused a throne , for I would not believe that the mighty Tardos Mors , or his no less redoubtable son , was dead . 
As I spoke I stepped forward and laid my hand upon the shoulder of Carthoris where he stood in the front rank of the circle of nobles about me . 
As one , the nobles and the people lifted their voices in a long cheer of approbation . 
Ten thousand swords sprang on high from as many scabbards , and the glorious fighting men of ancient Helium hailed Carthoris Jeddak of Helium . 
His tenure of office was to be for life or until his great grandfather , or grandfather , should return . 
Only Woola , my Martian hound , accompanied me . 
At my heels tonight the faithful beast moved softly in my tracks . 
The rays of the nearer moon , swinging low across the valley , touched his jewel incrusted harness with a thousand changing lights and glanced from the glossy ebony of his smooth hide . 
Twice he turned his head back toward the forest , after the manner of one who is upon an evil errand , though he must have felt quite safe from pursuit . 
So it was that I remained hidden until after Thurid had disappeared over the edge of the steep bank beside the sea a quarter of a mile away . 
Then , with Woola following , I hastened across the open after the black dator . 
The quiet of the tomb lay upon the mysterious valley of death , crouching deep in its warm nest within the sunken area at the south pole of the dying planet . 
At my back was the forest , pruned and trimmed like the sward to parklike symmetry by the browsing of the ghoulish plant men . 
The plant men , with their blood sucking hands , and the monstrous white apes that make Dor hideous by day , were hidden in their lairs for the night . 
In a few isolated countries they still retained their age old power but Matai Shang , their hekkador , Father of Therns , had been driven from his temple . 
Strenuous had been our endeavors to capture him but with a few of the faithful he had escaped , and was in hiding where we knew not . 
The pursuit of Thurid carried me along the edge of the sea toward the mouth of the Iss . 
The farther moon lay close to the horizon , casting a dense shadow beneath the cliffs that fringed the water . 
Thuria , the nearer moon , had set , nor would it rise again for near four hours , so that I was ensured concealing darkness for that length of time at least . 
On and on went the black warrior . 
Now he was opposite the mouth of the Iss . 
Without an instant's hesitation he turned up the grim river , paddling hard against the strong current . 
He hugged the shore where the current was less strong . 
Presently he came to the dark cavernous portal in the face of the Golden Cliffs , through which the river poured . 
On into the Stygian darkness beyond he urged his craft . 
It was my first trip upon the bosom of Iss , and the things I saw there will live forever in my memory . 
Thurid paid not the slightest attention to the screaming things that either menaced or pleaded with him as the mood directed them evidently he was familiar with the horrid sights that surrounded him . 
I dared not follow across the stream , for he most surely would have seen me . 
Instead I stopped close to the opposite wall beneath an overhanging mass of rock that cast a dense shadow beneath it . 
Here I could watch Thurid without danger of discovery . 
The black was standing upon the ledge beside his boat , looking up the river , as though he were awaiting one whom he expected from that direction . 
Five were at the paddles , while the sixth sat in the seat of honor . 
The white skins , the flowing yellow wigs which covered their bald pates , and the gorgeous diadems set in circlets of gold about their heads marked them as Holy Therns . 
Several times Thurid pointed across the river in my direction , but that his gestures had any reference to me I did not for a moment believe . 
Presently he and Matai Shang entered the latter's boat , which turned out into the river and , swinging round , forged steadily across in my direction . 
As they advanced I moved my boat farther and farther in beneath the overhanging wall , but at last it became evident that their craft was holding the same course . 
The five paddlers sent the larger boat ahead at a speed that taxed my energies to equal . 
Every instant I expected to feel my prow crash against solid rock . 
The light from the river was no longer visible , but ahead I saw the faint tinge of a distant radiance , and still the water before me was open . 
At last the truth dawned upon me I was following a subterranean river which emptied into the Iss at the very point where I had hidden . 
The rowers were now quite close to me . 
The noise of their own paddles drowned the sound of mine , but in another instant the growing light ahead would reveal me to them . 
There was no time to be lost . 
Whatever action I was to take must be taken at once . 
As they came nearer I heard the voices of Thurid and the Father of Therns raised in argument . 
I tell you , Thern , the black dator was saying , that I wish only vengeance upon John Carter , Prince of Helium . 
I am leading you into no trap . 
To the rowers he issued the command that brought their boat in toward the bank not a dozen paces beyond the spot where I lay . 
The few words I had already overheard whetted my curiosity , and I was anxious to learn what manner of vengeance Thurid was planning against me . 
Nor had I long to wait . 
There are no obligations , Father of Therns , continued the First Born . 
Thurid , Dator of Issus , has no price . 
Would that it were in my power to force him to witness the humiliation and degradation of the red woman . 
You shall have your way with her before another day has passed , Matai Shang , said Thurid , if you but say the word . 
How , then , may you accomplish the impossible ? Access may be had to any cell of the temple at any time , replied Thurid . 
Only Issus knew this nor was it ever Issus' way to divulge more of her secrets than were necessary . 
Let us proceed , then , said Matai Shang at last . 
I must trust you , yet at the same time you must trust me , for we are six to your one . 
I do not fear , replied Thurid , nor need you . 
Matai Shang spoke to the paddlers . 
The boat moved on up the tributary . 
If he should lead Matai Shang to that hollowed spot , then , too , should he lead John Carter , Prince of Helium . 
With silent paddle I swung slowly into the wake of the larger craft . 
Beyond the lighted chamber of the lake was darkness what lay behind the darkness I could not even guess . 
Then I paddled out upon the brilliant surface in the direction they had taken . 
Immediately the roof rose again upon the other side , but no longer was the way brilliantly lighted . 
Instead only a feeble glow emanated from small and scattered patches of phosphorescent rock in wall and roof . 
Directly before me the river ran into this smaller chamber through three separate arched openings . 
Here the way was through utter darkness . 
The stream was narrow so narrow that in the blackness I was constantly bumping first one rock wall and then another as the river wound hither and thither along its flinty bed . 
Thurid and the therns could not have come this way . 
Two unexplored channels still remained from which to choose nor was there any means by which I could judge which was the more likely to lead me to the plotters . 
Never in my life , that I can recall , have I suffered such an agony of indecision . 
So much depended upon a correct choice so much depended upon haste . 
Several times I essayed the right hand entrance only to turn back as though warned by some strange intuitive sense that this was not the way . 
And as I looked there came bobbing out upon the current from the Stygian darkness of the interior the shell of one of the great , succulent fruits of the sorapus tree . 
They had eaten of this marvelous fruit which nature concentrates within the hard shell of the sorapus nut , and having eaten had cast the husk overboard . 
It could have come from no others than the party I sought . 
Quickly I abandoned all thought of the left hand passage , and a moment later had turned into the right . 
The stream soon widened , and recurring areas of phosphorescent rock lighted my way . 
I made good time , but was convinced that I was nearly a day behind those I was tracking . 
As I proceeded , the river became narrower and the current swift and turbulent so swift in fact that it was with difficulty that I forced my craft upward at all . 
My heart sank within me . 
The sorapus nutshell had proved a false prophet , and , after all , my intuition had been correct it was the left hand channel that I should have followed . 
Had I been a woman I should have wept . 
I was almost prostrated by disappointment . 
It would mean another half day's loss of time to retrace my way and take the only passage that yet remained unexplored . 
A third time it struck , gently as it had before , but the contact resulted in a different sound the sound of wood scraping upon wood . 
In an instant I was on the alert , for there could be no wood within that buried river that had not been man brought . 
Almost coincidentally with my first apprehension of the noise , my hand shot out across the boat's side , and a second later I felt my fingers gripping the gunwale of another craft . 
As though turned to stone I sat in tense and rigid silence , straining my eyes into the utter darkness before me in an effort to discover if the boat were occupied . 
As usual , I thought rapidly . 
A rope lay coiled in the bottom of my own craft . 
Very softly I gathered it up , and making one end fast to the bronze ring in the prow I stepped gingerly into the boat beside me . 
In one hand I grasped the rope , in the other my keen long sword . 
For a full minute , perhaps , I stood motionless after entering the strange craft . 
But there was no answering sound , and a moment later I had felt from stem to stern and found the boat deserted . 
That they could be none other than Thurid and his party I was convinced by the size and build of the boat I had found . 
Calling to Woola to follow me I stepped out upon the ledge . 
The great , savage brute , agile as a cat , crept after me . 
Never had I known him to be in error in a matter of tracking , so it was with a feeling of entire security that I moved cautiously in the huge beast's wake . 
Through Cimmerian darkness he moved along the narrow ledge beside the boiling rapids . 
For hours we followed the dark and gloomy river farther and farther into the bowels of Mars . 
Even as my mind framed the thought , Woola halted suddenly before a narrow , arched doorway in the cliff by the trail's side . 
Quickly he crouched back away from the entrance , at the same time turning his eyes toward me . 
Before me was a fair sized chamber that , from its appointments , I knew must have at one time been a guardroom . 
The men were in earnest conversation , and from their tones it was apparent that they were entirely unaware that they had listeners . 
I tell you , one of them was saying , I do not trust the black one . 
There was no necessity for leaving us here to guard the way . 
Against what , pray , should we guard this long forgotten , abysmal path ? It was but a ruse to divide our numbers . 
He will have Matai Shang leave others elsewhere on some pretext or other , and then at last he will fall upon us with his confederates and slay us all . 
I believe you , Lakor , replied the other , there can never be aught else than deadly hatred between thern and First Born . 
Those were his very words , and to think that wise old Matai Shang should listen to such foolishness . 
Indeed , it is silly , replied Lakor . 
It will open nothing other than the way to a quick death for us all . 
Let us not remain here longer , Lakor , spoke the other thern . 
Perchance if we hasten after them we may come in time to rescue Matai Shang , and wreak our own vengeance upon the black dator . 
What say you ? Never in a long life , answered Lakor , have I disobeyed a single command of the Father of Therns . 
I shall stay here until I rot if he does not return to bid me elsewhere . 
Lakor's companion shook his head . 
You are my superior , he said I cannot do other than you sanction , though I still believe that we are foolish to remain . 
I , too , thought that they were foolish to remain , for I saw from Woola's actions that the trail led through the room where the two therns held guard . 
I had no reason to harbor any considerable love for this race of self deified demons , yet I would have passed them by were it possible without molesting them . 
Signaling Woola to heel I stepped suddenly into the room before the two men . 
At sight of me their long swords flashed from the harness at their sides , but I raised my hand in a gesture of restraint . 
I seek Thurid , the black dator , I said . 
My quarrel is with him , not with you . 
Let me pass then in peace , for if I mistake not he is as much your enemy as mine , and you can have no cause to protect him . 
They lowered their swords and Lakor spoke . 
In fact , I was the only white man upon Mars whose hair was black and whose eyes were gray , with the exception of my son , Carthoris . 
To reveal my identity might be to precipitate an attack , for every thern upon Barsoom knew that to me they owed the fall of their age old spiritual supremacy . 
And so I gripped my long sword the tighter as I replied to Lakor . 
There will be plenty of time to fight if we find it wise to fight at all . 
There be good reasons why every thern upon Barsoom should yearn to spill the blood of the blasphemer , the sacrilegist but let us mix wisdom with our righteous hate . 
The Prince of Helium is bound upon an errand which we ourselves , but a moment since , were wishing that we might undertake . 
Let him go then and slay the black . 
Go ! During our conversation Woola had been growling and bristling close to my side . 
Occasionally he would look up into my face with a low , pleading whine , as though begging for the word that would send him headlong at the bare throats before him . 
He , too , sensed the villainy behind the smooth words . 
Beyond the therns several doorways opened off the guardroom , and toward the one upon the extreme right Lakor motioned . 
That way leads to Thurid , he said . 
I turned a questioning look upon Lakor . 
As I spoke I smiled grimly that he might know without words that I distrusted him . 
As you will , the fellow replied with a shrug . 
In the end it shall be all the same . 
I turned and followed Woola into the left hand passage , and though my back was toward my enemies , my ears were on the alert yet I heard no sound of pursuit . 
The passageway was dimly lighted by occasional radium bulbs , the universal lighting medium of Barsoom . 
We had proceeded for but a short distance when we commenced to pass the mouths of diverging corridors , but not once did Woola hesitate . 
With a gesture I silenced him , and together we drew aside into another corridor a few paces farther on . 
Very cautiously they were moving now the accidental clank that had alarmed me was not repeated . 
Presently they came opposite our station nor was I surprised to see that the two were Lakor and his companion of the guardroom . 
They walked very softly , and in the right hand of each gleamed a keen long sword . 
They halted quite close to the entrance of our retreat , whispering to each other . 
Can it be that we have distanced them already ? said Lakor . 
John Carter would have found it a short road to death had he taken it as you suggested to him . 
Yes , said Lakor , no amount of fighting ability would have saved him from the pivoted flagstone . 
He surely would have stepped upon it , and by now , if the pit beneath it has a bottom , which Thurid denies , he should have been rapidly approaching it . 
There were no words , for they would have been a waste of breath . 
The very presence of the two proclaimed their treachery . 
That they were following to fall upon me unawares was all too plain , and they , of course , must have known that I understood their plan . 
While it lasted it was indeed as joyous a conflict as I ever had experienced . 
A moment later I had torn his yellow wig from his bald pate and transferred it and the circlet , as well as all his harness , to my own person . 
Woola did not approve of the metamorphosis . 
We moved cautiously now , warned by the fragment of conversation I had overheard . 
I kept abreast of Woola that we might have the benefit of all our eyes for what might appear suddenly ahead to menace us , and well it was that we were forewarned . 
To have attempted to cross that floor would have been to court instant death , and for a moment I was almost completely discouraged . 
Then it occurred to me that Thurid and Matai Shang with their party must have crossed it , and so there was a way . 
A more hideous aggregation of monsters had never before assailed my vision . 
I had been quite sure that they would not venture beyond the room in which I had discovered them , though I had not guessed at what deterred them . 
The simple fact that we had found no reptiles in the corridor through which we had just come was sufficient assurance that they did not venture there . 
I drew Woola out of harm's way , and then began a careful survey of as much of the Chamber of Reptiles as I could see from where I stood . 
As my eyes became accustomed to the dim light of its interior I gradually made out a low gallery at the far end of the apartment from which opened several exits . 
Coming as close to the threshold as I dared , I followed this gallery with my eyes , discovering that it circled the room as far as I could see . 
In an instant I had leaped to it and called Woola after me . 
Here there were no reptiles the way was clear to the opposite side of the hideous chamber and a moment later Woola and I dropped down to safety in the corridor beyond . 
Not ten minutes later we came into a vast circular apartment of white marble , the walls of which were inlaid with gold in the strange hieroglyphics of the First Born . 
From the high dome of this mighty apartment a huge circular column extended to the floor , and as I watched I saw that it slowly revolved . 
But how to reach them , now that I had found the only vulnerable spot in their mighty prison , was still a baffling riddle . 
Slowly I circled the great shaft , looking for a means of ingress . 
I am upon the right trail , I thought , as I slipped the bauble into the pocket pouch which hung from my harness . 
There was the door that would lead me within the prison , but where was the means to open it ? No button or lock were visible . 
I put my ear to it next and listened , but again my efforts brought negligible results . 
Turning away abruptly , I called to him to follow me . 
For a moment he hesitated , and then leaped after me , whining and tugging at my harness to draw me back . 
I walked on , however , some distance from the door before I let him have his way , that I might see precisely what he would do . 
Then I permitted him to lead me wherever he would . 
Straight back to that baffling portal he dragged me , again taking up his position facing the blank stone , gazing straight at its shining surface . 
For an hour I worked to solve the mystery of the combination that would open the way before me . 
Such a tiny keyhole as now defied me had opened the way to the intricate lock in that other door . 
Hastily I dumped the contents of my pocket pouch upon the ground before me . 
Could I but find a slender bit of steel I might yet fashion a key that would give me ingress to the temple prison . 
Casual curiosity prompted me to decipher them , but what I read carried no immediate meaning to my mind . 
I could have cried aloud in exultation when my scrutiny disclosed the almost invisible incrustation of particles of carbonized electrons which are thrown off by these Martian torches . 
For fifty tals I let three units of light shine full in the pinhole , then one unit for one xat , and for twenty five tals nine units . 
Those last twenty five tals were the longest twenty five seconds of my life . 
Would the lock click at the end of those seemingly interminable intervals of time ? Twenty three ! Twenty four ! Twenty five ! I shut off the light with a snap . 
For seven tals I waited there had been no appreciable effect upon the lock's mechanism . 
Back and back it slid for ten feet until it had disclosed at its right a narrow doorway leading into a dark and narrow corridor that paralleled the outer wall . 
Scarcely was the entrance uncovered than Woola and I had leaped through then the door slipped quietly back into place . 
Down the corridor at some distance I saw the faint reflection of a light , and toward this we made our way . 
At the point where the light shone was a sharp turn , and a little distance beyond this a brilliantly lighted chamber . 
Here we discovered a spiral stairway leading up from the center of the circular room . 
Immediately I knew that we had reached the center of the base of the Temple of the Sun the spiral runway led upward past the inner walls of the prison cells . 
Somewhere above me was Dejah Thoris , unless Thurid and Matai Shang had already succeeded in stealing her . 
We had scarcely started up the runway when Woola suddenly displayed the wildest excitement . 
Down into the chamber he dragged me , and across it to the side opposite that at which we had entered . 
Here was another doorway leading into a corridor which ran directly down a steep incline . 
Without a moment's hesitation Woola jerked me along this rocky passage . 
Looking ruefully at the marks of his great teeth upon my bare arm I decided to do as he seemed to wish me to do . 
After all , his strange instinct might be more dependable than my faulty human judgment . 
And well it was that I had been forced to follow him . 
But a short distance from the circular chamber we came suddenly into a brilliantly lighted labyrinth of crystal glass partitioned passages . 
The resounding echoes of that fearsome cry were still reverberating through the subterranean chambers when I saw the thing that had startled it from the faithful beast . 
At the same instant , evidently startled by Woola's fierce cry , they halted and looked about . 
With her were Thuvia of Ptarth , Phaidor , daughter of Matai Shang , and Thurid , and the Father of Therns , and the three lesser therns that had accompanied them . 
Thurid shook his fist at me , and then two of the therns grasped Dejah Thoris and Thuvia roughly by their arms and hurried them on . 
A moment later they had disappeared into a stone corridor beyond the labyrinth of glass . 
Here was the secret hiding place of Matai Shang , Father of Therns . 
Here we lay until the quick transition from daylight to darkness had passed . 
Then I crept out to approach the fortress walls in search of a way within . 
Either through carelessness or over confidence in the supposed inaccessibility of their hiding place , the triple barred gate stood ajar . 
Beyond were a handful of guards , laughing and talking over one of their incomprehensible Barsoomian games . 
The men stopped their game and looked up at me , but there was no sign of suspicion . 
Similarly they looked at Woola , growling at my heel . 
Kaor ! I said in true Martian greeting , and the warriors arose and saluted me . 
I have but just found my way hither from the Golden Cliffs , I continued , and seek audience with the hekkador , Matai Shang , Father of Therns . 
Where may he be found ? Follow me , said one of the guard , and , turning , led me across the outer courtyard toward a second buttressed wall . 
Be that as it may , the fact is that I marched buoyantly behind my guide straight into the jaws of death . 
Afterward I learned that thern spies had been aware of my coming for hours before I reached the hidden fortress . 
The gate had been purposely left ajar to tempt me on . 
The guards had been schooled well in their part of the conspiracy and I , more like a schoolboy than a seasoned warrior , ran headlong into the trap . 
At the far side of the outer court a narrow door let into the angle made by one of the buttresses with the wall . 
Here my guide produced a key and opened the way within then , stepping back , he motioned me to enter . 
Matai Shang is in the temple court beyond , he said and as Woola and I passed through , the fellow closed the door quickly upon us . 
The nasty laugh that came to my ears through the heavy planking of the door after the lock clicked was my first intimation that all was not as it should be . 
I found myself in a small , circular chamber within the buttress . 
Before me a door opened , presumably , upon the inner court beyond . 
Directly opposite me a massive tower rose to a height of three hundred feet . 
It was of the strangely beautiful modern Barsoomian style of architecture , its entire surface hand carved in bold relief with intricate and fanciful designs . 
A handful of thern warriors stood just behind the little party . 
As I entered the enclosure the eyes of those in the balcony were full upon me . 
An ugly smile distorted the cruel lips of Matai Shang . 
Thurid hurled a taunt at me and placed a familiar hand upon the shoulder of my princess . 
Like a tigress she turned upon him , striking the beast a heavy blow with the manacles upon her wrist . 
And Thurid's bearing toward the ancient hekkador savored not at all of liking or respect . 
When the altercation in the balcony had subsided Matai Shang turned again to me . 
Instead , Dejah Thoris , Princess of Helium , shall become the plaything of my lieutenants perhaps of thy most hated enemy , Thurid , the black dator . 
As he ceased speaking he awaited in silence evidently for some outbreak of rage upon my part something that would have added to the spice of his revenge . 
But I did not give him the satisfaction that he craved . 
And , knowing this , I removed the wig and circlet from my head , tossing them carelessly upon the flagging of the court . 
Then I wiped my feet upon the yellow tresses and as a groan of rage arose from the balcony I spat full upon the holy diadem . 
That put an end to Thurid's grinning , for he had been high in the favor of Issus . 
Let us have an end to this blaspheming ! he cried , turning to the Father of Therns . 
Let loose the death ! he cried , and immediately a dozen doors in the base of the tower swung open , and a dozen grim and terrible banths sprang into the arena . 
This was not the first time that I had faced the ferocious Barsoomian lion , but never had I been pitted , single handed , against a full dozen of them . 
Even with the assistance of the fierce Woola , there could be but a single outcome to so unequal a struggle . 
In the brief interval of life that was left me I shot a last , parting glance toward my Dejah Thoris . 
Then , as the banths were about to close upon me , she turned and buried her dear face in her arms . 
Suddenly my attention was drawn toward Thuvia of Ptarth . 
The beautiful girl was leaning far over the edge of the balcony , her eyes bright with excitement . 
At the first note of that soothing sound the banths halted in their tracks , and every fierce head went high as the beasts sought the origin of the familiar call . 
Presently they discovered the red girl in the balcony above them , and , turning , roared out their recognition and their greeting . 
You need not fear them now , John Carter ! cried Thuvia , before they could silence her . 
Those banths will never harm you now , nor Woola , either . 
It was all I cared to know . 
There was naught to keep me from that balcony now , and with a long , running leap I sprang far aloft until my hands grasped its lowest sill . 
In an instant all was wild confusion . 
Thurid sprang forward with drawn sword to cut me down . 
Again Dejah Thoris wielded her heavy irons and fought him back . 
Then Matai Shang grasped her about the waist and dragged her away through a door leading within the tower . 
Phaidor alone retained her presence of mind . 
Two of the guards she ordered to bear away Thuvia of Ptarth the others she commanded to remain and prevent me from following . 
Then she turned toward me . 
John Carter , she cried , for the last time I offer you the love of Phaidor , daughter of the Holy Hekkador . 
Accept and your princess shall be returned to the court of her grandfather , and you shall live in peace and happiness . 
Refuse and the fate that my father has threatened shall fall upon Dejah Thoris . 
You cannot save her now , for by this time they have reached a place where even you may not follow . 
Refuse and naught can save you for , though the way to the last stronghold of the Holy Therns was made easy for you , the way hence hath been made impossible . 
What say you ? You knew my answer , Phaidor , I replied , before ever you spoke . 
The three guardsmen did not wait for my attack . 
Through several inner chambers he raced until he came to a spiral runway . 
Up this he dashed , I in close pursuit . 
Here the fellow tore frantically at what appeared to be but a piece of the blank wall opposite the single window . 
But , try as he would , the panel would yield neither to cunning nor force , so that eventually he gave it up and turned to face me . 
Go thy way , Thern , I said to him , pointing toward the entrance to the runway up which we had but just come . 
I have no quarrel with you , nor do I crave your life . 
Go ! For answer he sprang upon me with his sword , and so suddenly , at that , that I was like to have gone down before his first rush . 
The fellow was a clever swordsman resourceful and extremely tricky . 
Clear to the hilt my weapon passed through his body , and with a frightful shriek he sank to the floor , dead . 
Here I sought for the secret of its lock , but all to no avail . 
In despair I tried to force the thing , but the cold , unyielding stone might well have laughed at my futile , puny endeavors . 
In fact , I could have sworn that I caught the faint suggestion of taunting laughter from beyond the baffling panel . 
In disgust I desisted from my useless efforts and stepped to the chamber's single window . 
The slopes of Otz and the distant Valley of Lost Souls held nothing to compel my interest then but , towering far above me , the tower's carved wall riveted my keenest attention . 
Somewhere within that massive pile was Dejah Thoris . 
Above me I could see windows . 
There , possibly , lay the only way by which I could reach her . 
The risk was great , but not too great when the fate of a world's most wondrous woman was at stake . 
But there was no other way and with a shrug , which I must admit was half shudder , I stepped to the window's outer sill and began my perilous ascent . 
Fifty feet above me commenced a series of projecting cylindrical stones some six inches in diameter . 
He can never solve the secret of that lock . 
The voice was Matai Shang's . 
Let us proceed to the hangar above that we may be far to the south before he finds another way should that be possible . 
All things seem possible to that vile calot , replied another voice , which I recognized as Thurid's . 
Then let us haste , said Matai Shang . 
But to be doubly sure , I will leave two who shall patrol this runway . 
Later they may follow us upon another flier overtaking us at Kaol . 
My upstretched fingers never reached the window's sill . 
At the first sound of the voices I drew back my hand and clung there to my perilous perch , flattened against the perpendicular wall , scarce daring to breathe . 
What a horrible position , indeed , in which to be discovered by Thurid ! He had but to lean from the window to push me with his sword's point into eternity . 
Matai Shang's reference to the hangar and the fliers indicated that my destination lay nothing short of the roof of the tower , and toward this seemingly distant goal I set my face . 
The most difficult and dangerous part of the journey was accomplished at last , and it was with relief that I felt my fingers close about the lowest of the stone cylinders . 
As I drew my eyes above the level of the tower's top I saw a flier all but ready to rise . 
Upon her deck were Matai Shang , Phaidor , Dejah Thoris , Thuvia of Ptarth , and a few thern warriors , while near her was Thurid in the act of clambering aboard . 
Dejah Thoris must have seen me at the same instant , for she screamed a useless warning just as Thurid's foot , swinging in a mighty kick , landed full in my face . 
Like a felled ox , I reeled and tumbled backward over the tower's side . 
ON THE KAOLIAN ROAD If there be a fate that is sometimes cruel to me , there surely is a kind and merciful Providence which watches over me . 
Ten feet only I fell , and then a loop of my tough , leathern harness caught upon one of the cylindrical stone projections in the tower's surface and held . 
But when at last I had worked myself back to a firm position I hesitated to ascend , since I could not know that Thurid was not still awaiting me above . 
Then I dived rapidly to the inner court where I had last seen Woola , and to my immense relief found the faithful beast still there . 
Far ahead , a tiny speck in the distance , I made out another flier late in the afternoon . 
It could be none other than that which bore my lost love and my enemies . 
Dawn showed that I had gained appreciably upon the flier ahead of me . 
It was a larger craft than mine , and not so swift but even so , it had covered an immense distance since the flight began . 
The change in vegetation below showed me that we were rapidly nearing the equator . 
Shot after shot tore past or into us , but by a miracle neither Woola nor I was hit , nor were the after tanks punctured . 
The ruse worked , and Thurid fired no more at us . 
Presently I heard the diminishing sound of whirring propellers and realized that again I was safe . 
From books and travelers I had learned something of the little known land of Kaol , which lies along the equator almost halfway round the planet to the east of Helium . 
Scarcely had I disentangled him than he raised his head high in air and commenced circling about at the edge of the forest . 
As best I could , I stumbled after him down a steep declivity beginning at the forest's edge . 
Immense trees reared their mighty heads far above us , their broad fronds completely shutting off the slightest glimpse of the sky . 
To one of these the hekkador of the Holy Therns had no difficulty in approaching , and by its means the party was safely lowered to the ground . 
As Woola and I approached the bottom of the declivity the ground became soft and mushy , so that it was with the greatest difficulty that we made any headway whatever . 
Slender purple grasses topped with red and yellow fern like fronds grew rankly all about us to the height of several feet above my head . 
The repulsive calot tree was , too , much in evidence . 
It is a carnivorous plant of about the bigness of a large sage brush such as dots our western plains . 
Each branch ends in a set of strong jaws , which have been known to drag down and devour large and formidable beasts of prey . 
Both Woola and I had several narrow escapes from these greedy , arboreous monsters . 
Then , having eaten , too , I lay down with my back to that of my faithful hound , and dropped into a deep and dreamless sleep . 
The forest was shrouded in impenetrable darkness when a low growl from Woola awakened me . 
All about us I could hear the stealthy movement of great , padded feet , and now and then the wicked gleam of green eyes upon us . 
Arising , I drew my long sword and waited . 
Suddenly a deep toned , horrid roar burst from some savage throat almost at my side . 
When morning broke they were still there , walking about as in a circle , but always just beyond the edge of the sward . 
A more terrifying aggregation of fierce and blood thirsty monsters it would be difficult to imagine . 
Singly and in pairs they commenced wandering off into the jungle shortly after sunrise , and when the last of them had departed Woola and I resumed our journey . 
Toward noon we stumbled upon a well constructed road running in the general direction we had been pursuing . 
Just as we entered it from one side a huge monster emerged from the jungle upon the other , and at sight of us charged madly in our direction . 
Frightful jaws in front and mighty , poisoned sting behind made my relatively puny long sword seem a pitiful weapon of defense indeed . 
Even my powerful and ferocious Woola was as helpless as a kitten before that frightful thing . 
The creature was upon us now , and at the instant there seemed to me a single slight chance for victory . 
If I could but remove the terrible menace of certain death hidden in the poison sacs that fed the sting the struggle would be less unequal . 
Nor was it far from accomplishing this when an interruption occurred that put an end forever to its hostilities . 
He was mounted on a splendid thoat , one of the smaller species used by red men , and in his hand was a wondrous long , light lance . 
The long lance of the warrior dipped toward us , and as thoat and rider hurtled beneath , the point passed through the body of our antagonist . 
By the time I had regained my feet the red man had turned and ridden back to us . 
I started to thank the stranger for his timely assistance , but he cut me off peremptorily . 
If his eyes had gone wide when he thought that I was a Holy Thern , they fairly popped now that he knew that I was John Carter . 
I grasped my long sword more firmly as I spoke the words which I was sure would precipitate an attack , but to my surprise they precipitated nothing of the kind . 
John Carter , Prince of Helium , he repeated slowly , as though he could not quite grasp the truth of the statement . 
John Carter , the mightiest warrior of Barsoom ! And then he dismounted and placed his hand upon my shoulder after the manner of most friendly greeting upon Mars . 
Truth and honesty were writ large upon the warrior's noble countenance , so that I could not but have trusted him , enemy though he should have been . 
Torkar Bar has already placed a great debt of gratitude upon my shoulders , I replied , pointing to the carcass of the creature from whose heart he was dragging his long spear . 
It was fortunate that I came when I did , he said . 
Only this poisoned spear pricking the very heart of a sith can kill it quickly enough to save its prey . 
Only occasionally do we now run upon one . 
And now as to yourself , John Carter , he said , I shall not ask your business here , nor do I wish to hear it . 
I have eyes and ears and ordinary intelligence , and yesterday morning I saw the party that came to the city of Kaol from the north in a small flier . 
But one thing I ask of you , and that is the word of John Carter that he contemplates no overt act against either the nation of Kaol or its jeddak . 
You may have my word as to that , Torkar Bar , I replied . 
My way leads along the Kaolian road , away from the city of Kaol , he continued . 
I have seen no one John Carter least of all . 
Nor have you seen Torkar Bar , nor ever heard of him . 
You understand ? Perfectly , I replied . 
He laid his hand upon my shoulder . 
This road leads directly into the city of Kaol , he said . 
I wish you fortune , and vaulting to the back of his thoat he trotted away without even a backward glance . 
It was after dark when Woola and I spied through the mighty forest the great wall which surrounds the city of Kaol . 
But to traverse the surrounding country , and to enter the guarded city of Kulan Tith , Jeddak of Kaol , were two very different things . 
Several times I attempted to scale the barrier at different points , but not even my earthly muscles could overcome that cleverly constructed rampart . 
And smooth ! Polished glass could not be more so . 
Finally I had to admit that at last I had discovered a Barsoomian fortification which I could not negotiate . 
Discouraged , I withdrew into the forest beside a broad highway which entered the city from the east , and with Woola beside me lay down to sleep . 
A HERO IN KAOL It was daylight when I was awakened by the sound of stealthy movement near by . 
At first I could see nothing , but presently I caught a glimpse of a bit of smooth and glossy green moving among the scarlet and purple and yellow of the vegetation . 
As far as I could see , the silent line of destruction and death stretched away from the city of Kaol . 
There could be but one explanation . 
The green men were expecting an exodus of a body of red troops from the nearest city gate , and they were lying there in ambush to leap upon them . 
Cautiously I retraced my steps to where I had left Woola , and warning him to silence , signaled him to follow me . 
Making a considerable detour to avoid the chance of falling into the hands of the green men , I came at last to the great wall . 
As much as I enjoy a fight , I cannot always indulge myself , and just now I had more weighty matters to occupy my time than spilling the blood of strange warriors . 
There was no time to be lost . 
In another moment the gate would be opened and the head of the column pass out upon the death bordered highway . 
Turning back toward the fateful gate , I ran rapidly along the edge of the clearing , taking the ground in the mighty leaps that had first made me famous upon Barsoom . 
Thirty , fifty , a hundred feet at a bound are nothing for the muscles of an athletic Earth man upon Mars . 
At the same instant the mighty portal swung wide and the head of the Kaolian column emerged . 
A dozen green warriors had succeeded in reaching a point between me and the gate , but they had but little idea who it was they had elected to detain . 
From the city the red warriors were rushing toward us , and from the jungle the savage horde of green men were coming to meet them . 
In a moment I was in the very center of as fierce and bloody a battle as I had ever passed through . 
These Kaolians are most noble fighters , nor are the green men of the equator one whit less warlike than their cold , cruel cousins of the temperate zone . 
If I sometimes seem to take too great pride in my fighting ability , it must be remembered that fighting is my vocation . 
And so I am very proud that upon two planets no greater fighter has ever lived than John Carter , Prince of Helium . 
And I outdid myself that day to impress the fact upon the natives of Kaol , for I wished to win a way into their hearts and their city . 
Nor was I to be disappointed in my desire . 
All day we fought , until the road was red with blood and clogged with corpses . 
Back and forth along the slippery highway the tide of battle surged , but never once was the gateway to Kaol really in danger . 
You are a mighty warrior , Dotar Sojat , he replied , and when this day is done I shall speak with you again in the great audience chamber . 
Not until the battle was over did I learn why the red troops had sallied forth that day . 
But now the march of the welcoming host was delayed until the following morning , when the troops again set out from Kaol . 
There , with Woola , I had spent a comfortable night , and rose much refreshed after the arduous labors of the past few days . 
Neither of us had come through the conflict unscathed , but the marvelous , healing salves of Barsoom had sufficed , overnight , to make us as good as new . 
The meal was scarcely concluded when a messenger arrived from Kulan Tith summoning me before him . 
Kaor , Dotar Sojat ! he greeted me . 
Tell me more of yourself from what country you come , and what errand brings you to the court of Kulan Tith . 
I am from Hastor , I said , for in truth I had a small palace in that southern city which lies within the far flung dominions of the Heliumetic nation . 
My presence in the land of Kaol is partly due to accident , my flier being wrecked upon the southern fringe of your great forest . 
It was while seeking entrance to the city of Kaol that I discovered the green horde lying in wait for your troops . 
Matai Shang stepped forward and laid his hand upon my shoulder . 
No slightest indication that he recognized me showed upon his countenance my disguise was evidently complete . 
He spoke kindly to me and then presented me to Thurid . 
The black , too , was evidently entirely deceived . 
Then Kulan Tith regaled them , much to my amusement , with details of my achievements upon the field of battle . 
I thought that I saw Thurid's eyes widen a bit during the narrative , and several times I surprised him gazing intently into my face through narrowed lids . 
A half hour later I rode out of the city gate with the column that accompanied Kulan Tith upon the way to meet his friend and ally . 
Toward noon we came in touch with the head of the column we had set out to meet . 
It was a gorgeous train that accompanied the visiting jeddak , and for miles it stretched along the wide , white road to Kaol . 
Never before today had I seen zitidars in the service of red men . 
It was indeed a most imposing sight . 
Calots are not permitted within the walls of the palace proper , and so I had had to relegate poor Woola to quarters in the stables where the royal thoats are kept . 
I could not have slept over a quarter of an hour when I was suddenly awakened by the passing of some cold and clammy thing across my forehead . 
Instantly I sprang to my feet , clutching in the direction I thought the presence lay . 
By the time I had resumed my feet and found the button which controlled the light my caller had disappeared . 
Careful search of the room revealed nothing to explain either the identity or business of the person who had thus secretly sought me in the dead of night . 
That the purpose might be theft I could not believe , since thieves are practically unknown upon Barsoom . 
Assassination , however , is rampant , but even this could not have been the motive of my stealthy friend , for he might easily have killed me had he desired . 
I had about given up fruitless conjecture and was on the point of returning to sleep when a dozen Kaolian guardsmen entered my apartment . 
The officer in charge was one of my genial hosts of the morning , but now upon his face was no sign of friendship . 
Kulan Tith commands your presence before him , he said . 
As I entered the brilliantly lighted apartment , filled with the nobles of Kaol and the officers of the visiting jeddak , all eyes were turned upon me . 
Upon the great dais at the end of the chamber stood three thrones , upon which sat Kulan Tith and his two guests , Matai Shang , and the visiting jeddak . 
Up the broad center aisle we marched beneath deadly silence , and at the foot of the thrones we halted . 
Most noble Jeddak , he said , addressing Kulan Tith , from the first I suspected this stranger within thy palace . 
Your description of his fiendish prowess tallied with that of the arch enemy of truth upon Barsoom . 
But that there might be no mistake I despatched a priest of your own holy cult to make the test that should pierce his disguise and reveal the truth . 
Behold the result ! and Thurid pointed a rigid finger at my forehead . 
All eyes followed the direction of that accusing digit I alone seemed at a loss to guess what fatal sign rested upon my brow . 
One glance at the reflection it gave back to me was sufficient . 
Beneath showed the tanned texture of my own white skin . 
For a moment Thurid ceased speaking , to enhance , I suspect , the dramatic effect of his disclosure . 
The Holy Thern nodded his head . 
It is indeed the arch blasphemer , he said . 
Even now he has followed me to the very heart of thy palace , Kulan Tith , for the sole purpose of assassinating me . 
He He lies ! I cried . 
Kulan Tith , listen that you may know the truth . 
Listen while I tell you why John Carter has followed Matai Shang to the heart of thy palace . 
Silence ! roared the jeddak , leaping to his feet and laying his hand upon the hilt of his sword . 
Silence , blasphemer ! Kulan Tith need not permit the air of his audience chamber to be defiled by the heresies that issue from your polluted throat to judge you . 
You stand already self condemned . 
It but remains to determine the manner of your death . 
To the pits with him ! he concluded , addressing the officer of my guard . 
The black grinned malevolently in my face . 
You shall not escape this time , Earth man , he taunted . 
The guards closed toward me . 
A red haze blurred my vision . 
The fighting blood of my Virginian sires coursed hot through my veins . 
The lust of battle in all its mad fury was upon me . 
Then I drew my sword and swung round , on guard , to face a nation . 
It was the visiting jeddak . 
The shouting ceased and the menacing points were lowered as a thousand eyes turned first toward Thuvan Dihn in surprise and then toward Kulan Tith in question . 
Thuvan Dihn , he said slowly , must have great provocation thus to desecrate the ancient customs which inspire the deportment of a guest within the palace of his host . 
I could see that the Jeddak of Ptarth was of half a mind to throw his metal in Kulan Tith's face , but he controlled himself even as well as had his host . 
Nor to any man upon Barsoom does he owe a greater debt of gratitude than to John Carter , Prince of Helium . 
Some months ago I first heard of the expedition which John Carter had led against Issus and the Holy Therns . 
Faint rumors of the atrocities reported to have been committed by the therns upon those who for countless ages have floated down the mighty Iss came to my ears . 
But then my father's love asserted itself , and I vowed that I would prefer eternal damnation to further separation from her if she could be found . 
More , too , I heard , and that of the chivalrous kindness that John Carter had accorded my daughter . 
I could see by the expression of his face that he was sore perplexed . 
In so far as the Prince of Helium is concerned I may act , but between you and Matai Shang my only office can be one of conciliation . 
Are you satisfied , Thuvan Dihn ? The Jeddak of Ptarth nodded his assent , but the ugly scowl that he bent upon Matai Shang harbored ill for that pasty faced godling . 
Nor will Thuvan Dihn , Jeddak of Ptarth , be satisfied when he has heard me through . 
I follow him , Thuvan Dihn , because with him are two prisoners my wife , Dejah Thoris , Princess of Helium , and your daughter , Thuvia of Ptarth . 
Rage flamed in his keen eyes but by the masterfulness of his self control he kept his tones level as he spoke . 
Knew you this thing , Kulan Tith ? he asked . 
Knew you that my daughter lay a prisoner in your palace ? He could not know it , interrupted Matai Shang , white with what I am sure was more fear than rage . 
He could not know it , for it is a lie . 
I would have had his life for that upon the spot , but even as I sprang toward him Thuvan Dihn laid a heavy hand upon my shoulder . 
Wait , he said to me , and then to Kulan Tith . 
It is not a lie . 
This much have I learned of the Prince of Helium he does not lie . 
Answer me , Kulan Tith I have asked you a question . 
Three women came with the Father of Therns , replied Kulan Tith . 
Phaidor , his daughter , and two who were reported to be her slaves . 
If these be Thuvia of Ptarth and Dejah Thoris of Helium I did not know it I have seen neither . 
But if they be , then shall they be returned to you on the morrow . 
Matai Shang was wise enough to seem to accept the mandate of his follower , and promised to bring the two slave women to the audience chamber on the morrow . 
I was about to object to any delay , and demand that the Princess of Helium be brought to me forthwith , when Thuvan Dihn made such insistence seem unnecessary . 
My heart pounded within my bosom until I looked about me in embarrassment , so sure was I that all within the room must hear . 
My arms ached to enfold once more the divine form of her whose eternal youth and undying beauty were but outward manifestations of a perfect soul . 
At last the messenger despatched to fetch Matai Shang returned . 
I craned my neck to catch the first glimpse of those who should be following , but the messenger was alone . 
Halting before the throne he addressed his jeddak in a voice that was plainly audible to all within the chamber . 
A low groan burst from the lips of Thuvan Dihn who stood next me , not having ascended the throne which awaited him beside his host . 
For a moment the silence of death reigned in the great audience chamber of Kulan Tith , Jeddak of Kaol . 
It was he who broke the spell . 
Rising from his throne he stepped down from the dais to the side of Thuvan Dihn . 
Tears dimmed his eyes as he placed both his hands upon the shoulders of his friend . 
Last night my life long faith was weakened this morning it has been shattered but too late , too late . 
What may be done ? Say the word ! First , I suggested , let us find those of your people who be responsible for the escape of Matai Shang and his followers . 
Without assistance on the part of the palace guard this thing could not have come to pass . 
Seek the guilty , and from them force an explanation of the manner of their going and the direction they have taken . 
Before Kulan Tith could issue the commands that would initiate the investigation a handsome young officer stepped forward and addressed his jeddak . 
O Kulan Tith , Mightiest of Jeddaks , he said , I alone be responsible for this grievous error . 
Last night it was I who commanded the palace guard . 
Let the consequences and the punishment fall on me alone , for I alone am guilty . 
Those others of the palace guard who assisted in the flight did so under my instructions . 
How left they , asked Thuvan Dihn , and what direction did they take ? They left as they came , replied the officer , upon their own flier . 
For some time after they had departed I watched the vessel's lights , which vanished finally due north . 
Where north could Matai Shang find an asylum ? asked Thuvan Dihn of Kulan Tith . 
For some moments the Jeddak of Kaol stood with bowed head , apparently deep in thought . 
Then a sudden light brightened his countenance . 
I have it ! he cried . 
Only yesterday Matai Shang let drop a hint of his destination , telling me of a race of people unlike ourselves who dwell far to the north . 
They , he said , had always been known to the Holy Therns and were devout and faithful followers of the ancient cult . 
Among them would he find a perpetual haven of refuge , where no lying heretics' might seek him out . 
It is there that Matai Shang has gone . 
And in all Kaol there be no flier wherein to follow , I cried . 
Nor nearer than Ptarth , replied Thuvan Dihn . 
Wait ! I exclaimed , beyond the southern fringe of this great forest lies the wreck of the thern flier which brought me that far upon my way . 
If you will loan me men to fetch it , and artificers to assist me , I can repair it in two days , Kulan Tith . 
Two days later the flier rested upon the top of the watchtower , ready to depart . 
As I stepped aboard her , Thuvan Dihn took his place beside me . 
I cast a look of questioning surprise upon him . 
He turned to the highest of his own officers who had accompanied him to Kaol . 
To you I entrust the return of my retinue to Ptarth , he said . 
There my son rules ably in my absence . 
The Prince of Helium shall not go alone into the land of his enemies . 
What became of them none knew only that they passed forever out of the sight of man into that grim and mysterious country of the pole . 
Suddenly a towering wall of white rose directly in our path , and though I threw the helm hard over , and reversed our engine , I was too late to avoid collision . 
With a sickening crash we struck the high looming obstacle three quarters on . 
The flier reeled half over the engine stopped as one , the patched buoyancy tanks burst , and we plunged , headforemost , to the ground twenty feet beneath . 
What fate ! With the journey all but completed to be thus wrecked upon the wrong side of that precipitous and unscalable wall of rock and ice ! I looked at Thuvan Dihn . 
He but shook his head dejectedly . 
The balance of the night we spent shivering in our inadequate sleeping silks and furs upon the snow that lies at the foot of the ice barrier . 
With daylight my battered spirits regained something of their accustomed hopefulness , though I must admit that there was little enough for them to feed upon . 
What shall we do ? asked Thuvan Dihn . 
How may we pass that which is impassable ? First we must disprove its impassability , I replied . 
Nor shall I admit that it is impassable before I have followed its entire circle and stand again upon this spot , defeated . 
For five days of cold and suffering and privation we traversed the rough and frozen way which lies at the foot of the ice barrier . 
Fierce , fur bearing creatures attacked us by daylight and by dark . 
Never for a moment were we safe from the sudden charge of some huge demon of the north . 
The apt was our most consistent and dangerous foe . 
Its two huge eyes inspired my greatest curiosity . 
Shortly after this we came upon the hugest apt that we had seen . 
The creature stood fully eight feet at the shoulder , and was so sleek and clean and glossy that I could have sworn that he had but recently been groomed . 
Thuvan Dihn saw it , too , and it carried the same message of hope to us both . 
Simultaneously we started upon the trail of the great beast . 
For the better part of two hours the trail paralleled the barrier , and then suddenly turned toward it through the roughest and seemingly most impassable country I ever had beheld . 
For another two hours we were occupied in traversing a few hundred yards to the foot of the barrier . 
From this repelling portal the horrid stench was emanating , and as Thuvan Dihn espied the place he halted with an exclamation of profound astonishment . 
By all my ancestors ! he ejaculated . 
That I should have lived to witness the reality of the fabled Carrion Caves ! If these indeed be they , we have found a way beyond the ice barrier . 
And death lurks at every step among rotting dead , for here the fierce apts lair , adding to the putrid accumulation with the fragments of their own prey which they cannot devour . 
It is a horrid avenue to our goal , but it is the only one . 
You are sure , then , that we have found the way to the land of the yellow men ? I cried . 
As sure as may be , he replied having only ancient legend to support my belief . 
But see how closely , so far , each detail tallies with the world old story of the hegira of the yellow race . 
Yes , I am sure that we have discovered the way to their ancient hiding place . 
The last word that came from them was that they sought Carthoris , my own brave son , beyond the ice barrier . 
One was almost tempted to draw his short sword and hew his way through in search of pure air beyond . 
Can man breathe this polluted air and live ? asked Thuvan Dihn , choking . 
Not for long , I imagine , I replied so let us make haste . 
I will go first , and you bring up the rear , with Woola between . 
Come , and with the words I dashed forward , across the fetid mass of putrefaction . 
It was not until we had passed through seven caves of different sizes and varying but little in the power and quality of their stenches that we met with any physical opposition . 
Then , within the eighth cave , we came upon a lair of apts . 
A full score of the mighty beasts were disposed about the chamber . 
Some were sleeping , while others tore at the fresh killed carcasses of new brought prey , or fought among themselves in their love making . 
Should we all go on and perish , there will be none to guide a succoring party to Dejah Thoris and your daughter . 
I shall not return and leave you here alone , John Carter , replied Thuvan Dihn . 
Whether you go on to victory or death , the Jeddak of Ptarth remains at your side . 
He rubbed his cheek against mine in a final caress , and a moment later was speeding through the Carrion Caves toward the outer world . 
When Woola had left us Thuvan Dihn and I , hiding in the seventh cave , discussed and discarded many plans for crossing the eighth chamber . 
From where we stood we saw that the fighting among the apts was growing less , and that many that had been feeding had ceased and lain down to sleep . 
Presently it became apparent that in a short time all the ferocious monsters might be peacefully slumbering , and thus a hazardous opportunity be presented to us to cross through their lair . 
One by one the remaining brutes stretched themselves upon the bubbling decomposition that covered the mass of bones upon the floor of their den , until but a single apt remained awake . 
This huge fellow roamed restlessly about , nosing among his companion and the abhorrent litter of the cave . 
Occasionally he would stop to peer intently toward first one of the exits from the chamber and then the other . 
His whole demeanor was as of one who acts as sentry . 
Finally I suggested a plan to Thuvan Dihn , and as it seemed as good as any that we had discussed we decided to put it to the test . 
Then I sprang to the opposite side of the entrance , flattening my body close to the wall . 
Without a sound the great beast moved rapidly toward the seventh cave to see what manner of intruder had thus rashly penetrated so far within the precincts of his habitation . 
Quickly we glanced into the eighth chamber not an apt had moved . 
Crawling over the carcass of the huge beast that blocked the doorway Thuvan Dihn and I cautiously entered the forbidding and dangerous den . 
Like snails we wound our silent and careful way among the huge , recumbent forms . 
The only sound above our breathing was the sucking noise of our feet as we lifted them from the ooze of decaying flesh through which we crept . 
Halfway across the chamber and one of the mighty beasts directly before me moved restlessly at the very instant that my foot was poised above his head , over which I must step . 
Breathlessly I waited , balancing upon one foot , for I did not dare move a muscle . 
In my right hand was my keen short sword , the point hovering an inch above the thick fur beneath which beat the savage heart . 
Finally the apt relaxed , sighing , as with the passing of a bad dream , and resumed the regular respiration of deep slumber . 
I planted my raised foot beyond the fierce head and an instant later had stepped over the beast . 
Thuvan Dihn followed directly after me , and another moment found us at the further door , undetected . 
Thuvan Dihn and I traversed the remaining nineteen caverns without adventure or mishap . 
We were afterward to learn that but once a month is it possible to find all the apts of the Carrion Caves in a single chamber . 
Once a month they sleep for a full day , and it was our good fortune to stumble by accident upon one of these occasions . 
Beyond the last cave we emerged into a desolate country of snow and ice , but found a well marked trail leading north . 
The way was boulder strewn , as had been that south of the barrier , so that we could see but a short distance ahead of us at any time . 
After a couple of hours we passed round a huge boulder to come to a steep declivity leading down into a valley . 
Directly before us we saw a half dozen men fierce , black bearded fellows , with skins the color of a ripe lemon . 
We withdrew behind an adjacent boulder to watch the actions of the little party , which stood huddled at the foot of another huge rock , their backs toward us . 
One of them was peering round the edge of the granite mass as though watching one who approached from the opposite side . 
Presently the object of his scrutiny came within the range of my vision and I saw that it was another yellow man . 
One of the swords which each of the warriors carried caught my immediate attention . 
I call it a sword , but really it was a sharp edged blade with a complete hook at the far end . 
The other sword was of about the same length as the hooked instrument , and somewhere between that of my long sword and my short sword . 
It was straight and two edged . 
In addition to the weapons I have ennumerated each man carried a dagger in his harness . 
As the lone warrior came opposite them the six rushed out upon him with fiendish yells that resembled nothing more closely than the savage war cry of the Apaches of the South west . 
Instantly the attacked drew both his swords , and as the six fell upon him I witnessed as pretty fighting as one might care to see . 
Once the lone warrior caught an antagonist in the side with his hook , and drawing him close ran his sword through him . 
So it was that before Thuvan Dihn knew what I was about he saw me standing by the side of the white clad yellow man , battling like mad with his five adversaries . 
When the battle was over our new acquaintance turned to me , and removing the shield from his wrist , held it out . 
I did not know the significance of his act , but judged that it was but a form of expressing his gratitude to me . 
He then went through the same ceremony with Thuvan Dihn . 
Next he asked our names , and from what land we hailed . 
He seemed quite familiar with the geography of the outerworld , and when I said I was from Helium he raised his brows . 
Ah , he said , you seek your ruler and his company ? Know you of them ? I asked . 
But little more than that they were captured by my uncle , Salensus Oll , Jeddak of Jeddaks , Ruler of Okar , land of the yellow men of Barsoom . 
As to their fate I know nothing , for I am at war with my uncle , who would crush my power in the principality of Marentina . 
My own people are faithful to me , and the little valley of Marentina has paid no tribute to the court of Salensus Oll for a year . 
Nor can he force us , for a dozen men may hold the narrow way to Marentina against a million . 
But now , as to thine own affairs . 
How may I aid you ? My palace is at your disposal , if you wish to honor me by coming to Marentina . 
When our work is done we shall be glad to accept your invitation , I replied . 
Talu gazed ruefully at our smooth faces and at Thuvan Dihn's red skin and my white one . 
First you must come to Marentina , he said , for a great change must be wrought in your appearance before you can hope to enter any city in Okar . 
You must have yellow faces and black beards , and your apparel and trappings must be those least likely to arouse suspicion . 
In my palace is one who can make you appear as truly yellow men as does Salensus Oll himself . 
Nestled in a deep valley lay a city of Martian concrete , whose every street and plaza and open space was roofed with glass . 
All about lay snow and ice , but there was none upon the rounded , domelike , crystal covering that enveloped the whole city . 
Then I saw how these people combatted the rigors of the arctic , and lived in luxury and comfort in the midst of a land of perpetual ice . 
Their cities were veritable hothouses , and when I had come within this one my respect and admiration for the scientific and engineering skill of this buried nation was unbounded . 
Except for his leathern harness , covered thick with jewels and metal , he was naked , nor could one have comfortably worn apparel in that warm and humid atmosphere . 
For three days we remained the guests of Prince Talu , and during that time he showered upon us every attention and courtesy within his power . 
He showed us all that was of interest in his great city . 
It is this ray which propels the inherent or reflected light of the planet off into space , and when confined gives to the Martian craft their airy buoyancy . 
They move with absolute noiselessness between borders of crimson sward and beneath arching trees gorgeous with the wondrous blooms that mark so many of the highly cultivated varieties of Barsoomian vegetation . 
Our skins were of the same lemon color as his own , and great , black beards and mustaches had been deftly affixed to our smooth faces . 
The trappings of warriors of Okar aided in the deception and for wear beyond the hothouse cities we each had suits of the black and yellow striped orluk . 
Talu gave us careful directions for the journey to Kadabra , the capital city of the Okar nation , which is the racial name of the yellow men . 
This good friend even accompanied us part way , and then , promising to aid us in any way that he found possible , bade us adieu . 
There had been but three others cut from the mother stone , he said , which is in my possession . 
These three are worn by nobles high in my confidence , all of whom have been sent on secret missions to the court of Salensus Oll . 
Should you come within fifty feet of any of these three you will feel a rapid , pricking sensation in the finger upon which you wear this ring . 
By it you will know that a friend is at hand upon whom you may depend for assistance in time of need . 
Guard it with your life , John Carter , for some day it may mean more than life to you . 
That very evening we came within sight of the walled and glass roofed city of Kadabra . 
It lies in a low depression near the pole , surrounded by rocky , snow clad hills . 
From the pass through which we entered the valley we had a splendid view of this great city of the north . 
Its crystal domes sparkled in the brilliant sunlight gleaming above the frost covered outer wall that circles the entire one hundred miles of its circumference . 
As he had said , we found numerous caves in the hillsides about us , and into one of these we crept for the night . 
Our warm orluk skins kept us perfectly comfortable , and it was only after a most refreshing sleep that we awoke shortly after daylight on the following morning . 
Already the city was astir , and from several of the gates we saw parties of yellow men emerging . 
After giving them time to get well out of sight of our cave , Thuvan Dihn and I crept out and followed them , overtaking them when they were well into the hills . 
When we had come almost to them I called aloud to their leader , when the whole party halted and turned toward us . 
The crucial test had come . 
Could we but deceive these men the rest would be comparatively easy . 
Kaor ! I cried as I came closer to them . 
Kaor ! responded the officer in charge of the party . 
We be from Illall , I continued , giving the name of the most remote city of Okar , which has little or no intercourse with Kadabra . 
We have hastened after you to pray that you allow us to accompany you . 
The officer was entirely deceived , and graciously permitted us to go with them for the day . 
We had come almost to the gate when one of the party called to his fellows , at the same time pointing toward the distant southern horizon . 
Following the direction he indicated , my eyes descried the hull of a large flier approaching rapidly from above the crest of the encircling hills . 
Still other fools who would solve the mysteries of the forbidden north , said the officer , half to himself . 
Let us tarry and watch the end of this one , suggested one of the men . 
The officer looked toward the city . 
The watch has seen him , he said we may remain , for we may be needed . 
I looked toward the city and saw several hundred warriors issuing from the nearest gate . 
They moved leisurely , as though there were no need for haste nor was there , as I was presently to learn . 
Then I turned my eyes once more toward the flier . 
She was moving rapidly toward the city , and when she had come close enough I was surprised to see that her propellers were idle . 
Straight for that grim shaft she bore . 
At the last minute I saw the great blades move to reverse her , yet on she came as though drawn by some mighty , irresistible power . 
Closer and closer to the black shaft the ship sped . 
In another instant she must strike , and then I saw the familiar signal flown that sends the lesser boats in a great flock from the deck of the mother ship . 
A moment later the collision came . 
Men were hurled in every direction from the ship's deck , while she , bent and crumpled , took the last , long plunge to the scrap heap at the shaft's base . 
With her fell a shower of her own tiny fliers , for each of them had come in violent collision with the solid shaft . 
I afterward learned that the shaft rests directly over the magnetic pole of Mars , but whether this adds in any way to its incalculable power of attraction I do not know . 
I am a fighting man , not a scientist . 
Here , at last , was an explanation of the long absence of Tardos Mors and Mors Kajak . 
Just beyond the gate the attendants loosened the whole terrible herd , and as they bounded off toward the grim , black shaft I did not need to ask to know their mission . 
Once within the gates , we had no difficulty in eluding our friends of the morning , and presently found ourselves in a Martian hostelry . 
IN DURANCE The public houses of Barsoom , I have found , vary but little . 
There is no privacy for other than married couples . 
Men without their wives are escorted to a large chamber , the floor of which is usually of white marble or heavy glass , kept scrupulously clean . 
Here are many small , raised platforms for the guest's sleeping silks and furs , and if he have none of his own clean , fresh ones are furnished at a nominal charge . 
Once a man's belongings have been deposited upon one of these platforms he is a guest of the house , and that platform his own until he leaves . 
No one will disturb or molest his belongings , as there are no thieves upon Mars . 
As assassination is the one thing to be feared , the proprietors of the hostelries furnish armed guards , who pace back and forth through the sleeping rooms day and night . 
The number of guards and gorgeousness of their trappings quite usually denote the status of the hotel . 
No meals are served in these houses , but generally a public eating place adjoins them . 
Baths are connected with the sleeping chambers , and each guest is required to bathe daily or depart from the hotel . 
Usually on a second or third floor there is a large sleeping room for single women guests , but its appointments do not vary materially from the chamber occupied by men . 
We spoke in low whispers , but , as that is only what courtesy demands in a public sleeping place , we roused no suspicion . 
Here we walked boldly in past the armed guard at the door , to be met by a red slave within who asked our wishes . 
Tell Sorav , your master , that two warriors from Illall wish to take service in the palace guard , I said . 
After a wait of several minutes in an ante chamber we were summoned into the private office of Sorav , where we were courteously greeted by this ferocious appearing , black bearded officer . 
Then he led us through the palace grounds to the main guardroom of the palace , there turning us over to the officer in charge . 
This individual again questioned us briefly , and finally despatched a soldier to guide us to our quarters . 
These we found located upon the second floor of the palace in a semi detached tower at the rear of the edifice . 
Salensus Oll had , therefore , set apart these quarters for aspirants , and here they were securely locked against the danger of attack by members of the guard . 
With a wry face I turned to Thuvan Dihn . 
My companion but shook his head disconsolately and walked to one of the windows upon the far side of the apartment . 
Scarcely had he gazed beyond them than he called to me in a tone of suppressed excitement and surprise . 
In an instant I was by his side . 
Look ! said Thuvan Dihn , pointing toward the courtyard below . 
As my eyes followed the direction indicated I saw two women pacing back and forth in an enclosed garden . 
Only ten feet of space and a few metal bars separated me from them . 
With a cry I attracted their attention , and as Dejah Thoris looked up full into my eyes I made the sign of love that the men of Barsoom make to their women . 
To my astonishment and horror her head went high , and as a look of utter contempt touched her finely chiseled features she turned her back full upon me . 
With a groan I turned away and buried my face in my arms . 
I heard Thuvan Dihn call aloud to Thuvia , but an instant later his exclamation of surprise betokened that he , too , had been repulsed by his own daughter . 
They will not even listen , he cried to me . 
They have put their hands over their ears and walked to the farther end of the garden . 
Ever heard you of such mad work , John Carter ? The two must be bewitched . 
I was at my wit's end to account for her strange actions , and that Thuvia , too , had turned against her father seemed incredible . 
As I gazed ruefully at the back of her haughty , royal head a gate at the opposite end of the garden opened and a man entered . 
Instantly I knew that this newcomer had bribed his way within the garden . 
Then he turned in the direction of the two women , and I saw that he was none other than Thurid , the black dator of the First Born . 
He approached quite close to them before he spoke , and as they turned at the sound of his voice I saw Dejah Thoris shrink from him . 
There was a nasty leer upon his face as he stepped close to her and spoke again . 
I could not hear his words , but her answer came clearly . 
The granddaughter of Tardos Mors can always die , she said , but she could never live at the price you name . 
Then I saw the black scoundrel go upon his knees beside her , fairly groveling in the dirt , pleading with her . 
I would save you from Matai Shang , I heard him say . 
You know the fate that awaits you at his hands . 
Would you not choose me rather than the other ? I would choose neither , replied Dejah Thoris , even were I free to choose , as you know well I am not . 
You ARE free ! he cried . 
John Carter , Prince of Helium , is dead . 
Of a sudden the vicious beast lost all control of himself , as with a vile oath he leaped at the slender woman , gripping her tender throat in his brute clutch . 
I spoke no word as I tore his defiling fingers from that beautiful throat , nor did I utter a sound as I hurled him twenty feet from me . 
Foaming with rage , Thurid regained his feet and charged me like a mad bull . 
I ducked beneath his outstretched arms , and as he lunged past me I planted a terrific right upon the side of his jaw . 
Just as he had done upon that other occasion he did now . 
Like a top he spun round , his knees gave beneath him , and he crumpled to the ground at my feet . 
Then I heard a voice behind me . 
At his right stood Matai Shang , and behind them a score of guardsmen . 
Who are you , he cried , and what means this intrusion within the precincts of the women's garden ? I do not recall your face . 
I pointed to the dislodged bars of the window above . 
As the examination proceeded I cast a glance at Thurid and startled him looking wide eyed and wonderingly at me , and then of a sudden he laughed full in my face . 
A moment later Salensus Oll turned toward the black . 
What have you to say in explanation of these charges ? he asked in a deep and terrible voice . 
A cunning look crept into his eyes , and I knew from the expression of his face that his next words were not the ones he had intended to speak . 
O Mightiest of Jeddaks , he said , the man and the women do not speak the truth . 
The fellow had come into the garden to assist them to escape . 
I was beyond and overheard their conversation , and when I entered , the woman screamed and the man sprang upon me and would have killed me . 
What know you of this man ? He is a stranger to you , and I dare say that you will find him an enemy and a spy . 
Let him be put on trial , Salensus Oll , rather than your friend and guest , Thurid , Dator of the First Born . 
He turned again and looked upon Dejah Thoris , and then Thurid stepped quite close to him and whispered something in his ear what , I know not . 
Presently the yellow ruler turned to one of his officers . 
Then he turned and left the garden , taking Dejah Thoris with him his hand upon her shoulder . 
Thurid and Matai Shang went also , and as they reached the gateway the black turned and laughed again aloud in my face . 
THE PIT OF PLENTY I did not languish long within the prison of Salensus Oll . 
During the short time that I lay there , fettered with chains of gold , I often wondered as to the fate of Thuvan Dihn , Jeddak of Ptarth . 
The last I had seen of him he stood waiting for the warriors who escorted me to close the gate behind them , that he might be alone with Thuvia . 
Could it be possible that they had escaped ? I doubted it , and yet with all my heart I hoped that it might be true . 
The third day of my incarceration brought a dozen warriors to escort me to the audience chamber , where Salensus Oll himself was to try me . 
A great number of nobles crowded the room , and among them I saw Thurid , but Matai Shang was not there . 
Dejah Thoris , as radiantly beautiful as ever , sat upon a small throne beside Salensus Oll . 
The expression of sad hopelessness upon her dear face cut deep into my heart . 
I determined to wait the final outcome of the trial , that I might learn all that I could of the Okarian ruler's intentions , and then act accordingly . 
Scarcely had I come before him than Salensus Oll summoned Thurid also . 
You tell me that a certain announcement will be the means of convicting this prisoner and , at the same time , open the way to the gratification of my dearest wish . 
Then shall I make the announcement here before all my nobles , continued Salensus Oll . 
For a year no queen has sat upon the throne beside me , and now it suits me to take to wife one who is reputed the most beautiful woman upon Barsoom . 
A statement which none may truthfully deny . 
I may not be the wife of Salensus Oll , she pleaded , for already I be a wife and mother . 
John Carter , Prince of Helium , still lives . 
I know it to be true , for I overheard Matai Shang tell his daughter Phaidor that he had seen him in Kaor , at the court of Kulan Tith , Jeddak . 
A jeddak does not wed a married woman , nor will Salensus Oll thus violate the bonds of matrimony . 
Salensus Oll turned upon Thurid with an ugly look . 
Is this the surprise you held in store for me ? he cried . 
You assured me that no obstacle which might not be easily overcome stood between me and this woman , and now I find that the one insuperable obstacle intervenes . 
Talk not like a fool , cried the enraged jeddak . 
I am no child to be thus played with . 
I am talking only as a man who knows , replied Thurid . 
Knows that he can do all that he claims . 
Fool ! John Carter is a white man . 
This fellow be as yellow as myself . 
John Carter's face is smooth Matai Shang has described him to me . 
This prisoner has a beard and mustache as large and black as any in Okar . 
Instantly pandemonium reigned in the audience chamber of Salensus Oll . 
A moment only and she was before me with outstretched arms and eyes filled with the light of her great love . 
Indeed , but I had been a fool . 
But an instant did I crush that dear form to me ere Salensus Oll , trembling with rage and jealousy , shouldered his way to us . 
Seize the man , he cried to his warriors , and a hundred ruthless hands tore us apart . 
Well it was for the nobles of the court of Okar that John Carter had been disarmed . 
Standing there beside the great tyrant , who clutched her by the arm , she pointed to where I fought alone against such awful odds . 
He fought for me and won me . 
If you be a brave man you will honor the bravery that is his , and you will not kill him . 
Make him a slave if you will , Salensus Oll but spare his life . 
I would rather be a slave with such as he than be Queen of Okar . 
Neither slave nor queen dictates to Salensus Oll , replied the Jeddak of Jeddaks . 
John Carter shall die a natural death in the Pit of Plenty , and the day he dies Dejah Thoris shall become my queen . 
As I opened my eyes they goaded me with the points of their swords and bade me rise . 
Then they led me through long corridors to a court far toward the center of the palace . 
In the center of the court was a deep pit , near the edge of which stood half a dozen other guardsmen , awaiting me . 
One of them carried a long rope in his hands , which he commenced to make ready as we approached . 
We had come to within fifty feet of these men when I felt a sudden strange and rapid pricking sensation in one of my fingers . 
Instantly I looked toward the group we were nearing , at the same time raising my left hand to my forehead , that the ring might be visible to one who sought it . 
Simultaneously one of the waiting warriors raised his left hand , ostensibly to brush back his hair , and upon one of his fingers I saw the duplicate of my own ring . 
After the first jerk as I reached the end of the rope that had been paid out to let me fall below the pit's edge they lowered me quickly but smoothly . 
For a day I was left in darkness and then , quite suddenly , a brilliant light illumined my strange cell . 
I was reasonably hungry and thirsty by this time , not having tasted food or drink since the day prior to my incarceration . 
Immediately the pangs of hunger and thirst began to assail me . 
Once more darkness and silence enveloped me , a silence that was broken only by a single mocking laugh . 
For another day nothing occurred to break the monotony of my imprisonment or relieve the suffering superinduced by hunger and thirst . 
Then the mocking laugh rang out for a second time . 
Glad I was that I had done so , for it gave me an opportunity to solve the seeming mystery of those vanishing banquets . 
And as I sat scrutinizing the laden shelves I presently saw how the thing was accomplished , and so simple was it that I wondered I had not guessed it before . 
The wall of my prison was of clearest glass behind the glass were the tantalizing viands . 
Nine days passed , and I was weak from hunger and thirst , but no longer suffering I was past that . 
Then , down through the darkness above , a little parcel fell to the floor at my side . 
Indifferently I groped for it , thinking it but some new invention of my jailers to add to my sufferings . 
At last I found it a tiny package wrapped in paper , at the end of a strong and slender cord . 
As I opened it a few lozenges fell to the floor . 
As I gathered them up , feeling of them and smelling of them , I discovered that they were tablets of concentrated food such as are quite common in all parts of Barsoom . 
Good bye , my Dejah Thoris ! I breathed . 
Now , more interestedly , my fingers traced and retraced them . 
There were four separate and distinct combinations of raised lines . 
But I could make nothing of them , and at last I decided that my very haste was preventing me from solving the mystery . 
Then I took it more slowly . 
Again and again my forefinger traced the first of those four combinations . 
Upon Barsoom there is but a single oral language . 
It is spoken today by every race and nation , just as it was at the beginning of human life upon Barsoom . 
Not so their written languages , however . 
No two nations have the same written language , and often cities of the same nation have a written language that differs greatly from that of the nation to which they belong . 
Thus it was that the signs upon the paper , if in reality they were words , baffled me for some time but at last I made out the first one . 
It was courage , and it was written in the letters of Marentina . 
Courage ! That was the word the yellow guardsman had whispered in my ear as I stood upon the verge of the Pit of Plenty . 
The message must be from him , and he I knew was a friend . 
FOLLOW THE ROPE What could it mean ? Follow the rope . 
It depended from above , and when I pulled upon it I discovered that it was rigidly fastened , possibly at the pit's mouth . 
Upon examination I found that the cord , though small , was amply able to sustain the weight of several men . 
Then I made another discovery there was a second message knotted in the rope at about the height of my head . 
This I deciphered more easily , now that the key was mine . 
Bring the rope with you . 
Beyond the knots lies danger . 
That was all there was to this message . 
It was evidently hastily formed an afterthought . 
At least , I could be but little worse off than I had been in the Pit of Plenty . 
It had taken me about that length of time to ascend some fifty feet above the bottom when a noise above attracted my attention . 
To my chagrin I saw that the covering of the pit was being removed far above me , and in the light of the courtyard beyond I saw a number of yellow warriors . 
Plainly now I saw the end for which Salensus Oll had destined me . 
After first torturing me with starvation he had caused this fierce beast to be lowered into my prison to finish the work that the jeddak's hellish imagination had conceived . 
And then another truth flashed upon me I had lived nine days of the allotted ten which must intervene before Salensus Oll could make Dejah Thoris his queen . 
The purpose of the apt was to insure my death before the tenth day . 
So this was the meaning of the words Follow the rope . 
The tunnel through which I crawled was low and dark . 
I had followed it for several hundred yards when I felt a knot beneath my fingers . 
Beyond the knots lies danger . 
Now I went with the utmost caution , and a moment later a sharp turn in the tunnel brought me to an opening into a large , brilliantly lighted chamber . 
Upon the opposite wall were many strange instruments and devices , and in the center of the room stood a long table , at which two men were seated in earnest conversation . 
He who faced me was a yellow man a little , wizened up , pasty faced old fellow with great eyes that showed the white round the entire circumference of the iris . 
Thurid was speaking as I came within hearing of the men's voices . 
Solan , he was saying , there is no risk and the reward is great . 
You know that you hate Salensus Oll and that nothing would please you more than to thwart him in some cherished plan . 
You need not more than step from this room for an instant when I give you the signal . 
I will do the rest , and then , when I am gone , you may come and throw the great switch back into its place , and all will be as before . 
I need but an hour's start to be safe beyond the devilish power that you control in this hidden chamber beneath the palace of your master . 
No ! No ! cried the little old man , springing after him , with a wild shriek . 
Come away ! Come away ! You know not with what mighty powers you play . 
This is the lever that you seek . 
Note well the symbol inlaid in white upon its ebon surface . 
Thurid approached and examined the handle of the lever . 
Ah , a magnet , he said . 
It is settled then I take it , he continued . 
A look of combined greed and apprehension overspread his none too beautiful features . 
Double the figure , he said . 
Even that were all too small an amount for the service you ask . 
Why , I risk my life by even entertaining you here within the forbidden precincts of my station . 
Should Salensus Oll learn of it he would have me thrown to the apts before the day was done . 
He dare not do that , and you know it full well , Solan , contradicted the black . 
Too great a power of life and death you hold over the people of Kadabra for Salensus Oll ever to risk threatening you with death . 
Before ever his minions could lay their hands upon you , you might seize this very lever from which you have just warned me and wipe out the entire city . 
And myself into the bargain , said Solan , with a shudder . 
But if you were to die , anyway , you would find the nerve to do it , replied Thurid . 
Yes , muttered Solan , I have often thought upon that very thing . 
Half now and the balance when you have fulfilled your contract . 
With that the dator threw a well filled money pouch upon the table . 
Solan opened the pouch and with trembling fingers counted its contents . 
His weird eyes assumed a greedy expression , and his unkempt beard and mustache twitched with the muscles of his mouth and chin . 
It was quite evident from his very mannerism that Thurid had keenly guessed the man's weakness even the clawlike , clutching movement of the fingers betokened the avariciousness of the miser . 
Having satisfied himself that the amount was correct , Solan replaced the money in the pouch and rose from the table . 
Let me repeat it to you , said Thurid , that you may see if I be letter perfect . 
At the end of this corridor I shall come to a spiral runway , which I must follow down instead of up after that the way is along but a single branchless corridor . 
Am I right ? Quite right , Dator , answered Solan and now begone . 
Already have you tempted fate too long within this forbidden place . 
Tonight , or tomorrow , then , you may expect the signal , said Thurid , rising to go . 
Presently his fingers ceased their play his eyes popped wider than ever as they fastened upon the door through which Thurid had disappeared . 
The croon changed to a querulous muttering , and finally to an ugly growl . 
Then the old man rose from the table , shaking his fist at the closed door . 
Now he raised his voice , and his words came distinctly . 
Think you that for your happiness Solan will give up his life ? If you escaped , Salensus Oll would know that only through my connivance could you have succeeded . 
Then would he send for me . 
He laughed in a nasty , cackling note . 
But how to pass the old man now ! The cord , almost invisible upon the floor , stretched straight across the apartment to a door upon the far side . 
There was no other way of which I knew , nor could I afford to ignore the advice to follow the rope . 
I must cross this room , but however I should accomplish it undetected with that old man in the very center of it baffled me . 
But a short distance farther on I came to the rope's end at a point where five corridors met . 
What was I to do ? Which way should I turn ? I was nonplused . 
A careful examination of the end of the rope revealed the fact that it had been cleanly cut with some sharp instrument . 
So I chose the central opening , and passed on into its gloomy depths with a prayer upon my lips . 
The floor of the tunnel rose rapidly as I advanced , and a moment later the way came to an abrupt end before a heavy door . 
I could hear nothing beyond , and , with my accustomed rashness , pushed the portal wide to step into a room filled with yellow warriors . 
Then others saw me , and there was a concerted rush to lay hands upon me , for these were all members of the palace guard men familiar with my face . 
And so John Carter , Prince of Helium , meekly surrendered to a single antagonist . 
The others now swarmed about us , asking many questions , but I would not talk to them , and finally my captor announced that he would lead me back to my cell . 
An officer ordered several other warriors to accompany him , and a moment later we were retracing the way I had just come . 
My friend walked close beside me , asking many silly questions about the country from which I had come , until finally his fellows paid no further attention to him or his gabbling . 
Gradually , as he spoke , he lowered his voice , so that presently he was able to converse with me in a low tone without attracting attention . 
His ruse was a clever one , and showed that Talu had not misjudged the man's fitness for the dangerous duty upon which he was detailed . 
It leads to the watchtower upon the south wall . 
From behind the voices of the excited guardsmen came reverberating along the corridor , suddenly growing fainter as Talu's spy led them up the wrong passageway in fancied pursuit . 
In this apartment a dozen red slaves were employed polishing or repairing the weapons of the yellow men . 
The walls of the room were lined with racks in which were hundreds of straight and hooked swords , javelins , and daggers . 
It was evidently an armory . 
There were but three warriors guarding the workers . 
My eyes took in the entire scene at a glance . 
One of the guards started toward me . 
Who are you ? he demanded . 
The yellow men devoted all their attention to me , nor were they long in discovering that the three of them were none too many to defend the armory against John Carter . 
The three of them were on me at once , and but for a lucky circumstance my end might have come quickly . 
Then one of them commenced calling for help , but it was too late to save them . 
In an instant both lay dead upon the floor . 
But their cries had not been entirely fruitless , for now I heard answering shouts and the footfalls of many men running and the clank of accouterments and the commands of officers . 
The door ! Quick , John Carter , bar the door ! cried Tardos Mors . 
Already the guard was in sight , charging across the open court that was visible through the doorway . 
A dozen seconds would bring them into the tower . 
A single leap carried me to the heavy portal . 
With a resounding bang I slammed it shut . 
The bar ! shouted Tardos Mors . 
I tried to slip the huge fastening into place , but it defied my every attempt . 
Raise it a little to release the catch , cried one of the red men . 
I could hear the yellow warriors leaping along the flagging just beyond the door . 
I raised the bar and shot it to the right just as the foremost of the guardsmen threw himself against the opposite side of the massive panels . 
The barrier held I had been in time , but by the fraction of a second only . 
Now I turned my attention to the prisoners . 
To Tardos Mors I went first , asking where the keys might be which would unfasten their fetters . 
The officer of the guard has them , replied the Jeddak of Helium , and he is among those without who seek entrance . 
You will have to force them . 
Most of the prisoners were already hacking at their bonds with the swords in their hands . 
The yellow men were battering at the door with javelins and axes . 
I turned my attention to the chains that held Tardos Mors . 
Again and again I cut deep into the metal with my sharp blade , but ever faster and faster fell the torrent of blows upon the portal . 
At last a link parted beneath my efforts , and a moment later Tardos Mors was free , though a few inches of trailing chain still dangled from his ankle . 
A splinter of wood falling inward from the door announced the headway that our enemies were making toward us . 
The mighty panels trembled and bent beneath the furious onslaught of the enraged yellow men . 
What with the battering upon the door and the hacking of the red men at their chains the din within the armory was appalling . 
No sooner was Tardos Mors free than he turned his attention to another of the prisoners , while I set to work to liberate Mors Kajak . 
We must work fast if we would have all those fetters cut before the door gave way . 
Now a panel crashed inward upon the floor , and Mors Kajak sprang to the opening to defend the way until we should have time to release the others . 
With javelins snatched from the wall he wrought havoc among the foremost of the Okarians while we battled with the insensate metal that stood between our fellows and freedom . 
To the upper chambers ! shouted the red man who was still fettered to the floor . 
To the upper chambers ! There you may defend the tower against all Kadabra . 
Do not delay because of me , who could pray for no better death than in the service of Tardos Mors and the Prince of Helium . 
But I would have sacrificed the life of every man of us rather than desert a single red man , much less the lion hearted hero who begged us to leave him . 
Cut his chains , I cried to two of the red men , while the balance of us hold off the foe . 
The first inrushing wave of yellow warriors recoiled from the slashing blades of ten of Helium's veteran fighting men . 
A dozen Okarian corpses blocked the doorway , but over the gruesome barrier a score more of their fellows dashed , shouting their hoarse and hideous war cry . 
Now were the fetters struck from the last of the red men , and thirteen strong we met each new charge of the soldiers of Salensus Oll . 
Scarce one of us but bled from a score of wounds , yet none had fallen . 
To the upper chambers ! cried Tardos Mors , and a moment later we fell back toward the runway that led to the floors above . 
Here another bloody battle was waged with the force of yellow men who charged into the armory as we fell back from the doorway . 
Then , backing slowly before them , I commenced the ascent of the spiral . 
All the long way to the tower's top the guardsmen pressed me closely . 
Here my companions clustered ready to take my place , and for a moment's respite I stepped to one side while they held the enemy off . 
From the lofty perch a view could be had for miles in every direction . 
Toward the south stretched the rugged , ice clad waste to the edge of the mighty barrier . 
Eagerly I pressed forward against the glass wall of the observatory , scarce daring to credit the testimony of my own eyes . 
As he joined me I pointed down into the streets of Kadabra and to the advancing columns beyond , above which floated bravely in the arctic air the flags and banners of Helium . 
But still we must fight on , for though our troops had entered Kadabra , the city was yet far from capitulation , nor had the palace been even assaulted . 
Turn and turn about we held the top of the runway while the others feasted their eyes upon the sight of our valiant countrymen battling far beneath us . 
Now they have rushed the palace gate ! Great battering rams are dashed against its formidable surface . 
The palace gate flies open and a force of the jeddak's own guard , picked men from the flower of the Okarian army , sallies forth to shatter the broken regiments . 
The warrior hews his way to the front , and behind him rally the disorganized soldiers of Helium . 
Again I turned to the windows . 
The red men had not yet forced the outer palace wall , but they were fighting nobly against the best that Okar afforded valiant warriors who contested every inch of the way . 
Now my attention was caught by a new element without the city wall a great body of mounted warriors looming large above the red men . 
They were the huge green allies of Helium the savage hordes from the dead sea bottoms of the far south . 
In grim and terrible silence they sped on toward the gate , the padded hoofs of their frightful mounts giving forth no sound . 
At times they would pause long enough to drag back the impeding corpses , and then fresh warriors would forge upward to taste the cup of death . 
Alas ! he cried , that I should be forced to witness cruel fate betray them without power to warn or aid but they be past either now . 
As I looked in the direction he indicated I saw the cause of his perturbation . 
A mighty fleet of fliers was approaching majestically toward Kadabra from the direction of the ice barrier . 
On and on they came with ever increasing velocity . 
I , too , saw but something else I saw that Mors Kajak did not in my mind's eye I saw a buried chamber whose walls were lined with strange instruments and devices . 
Then I glanced out at the fast approaching fleet . 
I shuddered at the thought , for I could vividly picture the whole horrible scene . 
Quick have I always been to decide and act . 
And now celerity of action was the prime essential to the success of the thing that I had decided upon . 
Grasping my sword more firmly in my hand , I called to the red man at the opening to the runway to stand aside . 
Way for the Prince of Helium ! I shouted as I cut a path through the astonished guardsmen of Salensus Oll . 
Here I ran as rapidly as my legs would carry me toward the five corners , and there plunged into the passageway that led to the station of the old miser . 
Without the formality of a knock , I burst into the room . 
There sat the old man at his table but as he saw me he sprang to his feet , drawing his sword . 
With scarce more than a glance toward him I leaped for the great switch but , quick as I was , that wiry old fellow was there before me . 
How he did it I shall never know , nor does it seem credible that any Martian born creature could approximate the marvelous speed of my earthly muscles . 
Like a tiger he turned upon me , and I was quick to see why Solan had been chosen for this important duty . 
Never in all my life have I seen such wondrous swordsmanship and such uncanny agility as that ancient bag of bones displayed . 
It is strange how new and unexpected conditions bring out unguessed ability to meet them . 
They must have either heard or guessed which way I went , for I had proceeded but a short distance when I heard the sound of pursuit . 
The passageway had risen rapidly since leaving the apartment of the switch , and now ran level and well lighted straight into the distance as far as I could see . 
The moment that my pursuers reached this straight stretch I would be in plain sight of them , with no chance to escape from the corridor undetected . 
Presently I saw a series of doors opening from either side of the corridor , and as they all looked alike to me I tried the first one that I reached . 
It opened into a small chamber , luxuriously furnished , and was evidently an ante chamber off some office or audience chamber of the palace . 
On the far side was a heavily curtained doorway beyond which I heard the hum of voices . 
Instantly I crossed the small chamber , and , parting the curtains , looked within the larger apartment . 
Before me were a party of perhaps fifty gorgeously clad nobles of the court , standing before a throne upon which sat Salensus Oll . 
The Jeddak of Jeddaks was addressing them . 
The allotted hour has come , he was saying as I entered the apartment and though the enemies of Okar be within her gates , naught may stay the will of Salensus Oll . 
Then , turning to a courtier , he issued some command in a low voice . 
Her hands were still manacled behind her , evidently to prevent suicide . 
Her disheveled hair and panting bosom betokened that , chained though she was , still had she fought against the thing that they would do to her . 
Now the guardsmen were forcing the Princess of Helium up the few steps to the side of the tyrant of Okar , and I had no eyes and no thoughts for aught else . 
A priest opened a book and , raising his hand , commenced to drone out a sing song ritual . 
Salensus Oll reached for the hand of his bride . 
For a moment tense silence reigned in the nuptial room . 
Then the fifty nobles rushed upon me . 
Two were pressing me so closely that I could not turn when I heard a movement behind me , and noted that the sound of the battle anthem had ceased . 
She must be contemplating some cunning strategy , I thought , and so I fought on secure in the belief that my divine princess stood close behind me . 
The Jeddak of Jeddaks ! he cried . 
Where is Salensus Oll ? He alone may revive the flagging courage of our warriors . 
He alone may save the day for Okar . 
Where is Salensus Oll ? The nobles stepped back from about the dead body of their ruler , and one of them pointed to the grinning corpse . 
The messenger staggered back in horror as though from a blow in the face . 
Then fly , nobles of Okar ! he cried , for naught can save you . 
Hark ! They come ! As he spoke we heard the deep roar of angry men from the corridor without , and the clank of metal and the clang of swords . 
Without another glance toward me , who had stood a spectator of the tragic scene , the nobles wheeled and fled from the apartment through another exit . 
Almost immediately a force of yellow warriors appeared in the doorway through which the messenger had come . 
They were backing toward the apartment , stubbornly resisting the advance of a handful of red men who faced them and forced them slowly but inevitably back . 
Above the heads of the contestants I could see from my elevated station upon the dais the face of my old friend Kantos Kan . 
He was leading the little party that had won its way into the very heart of the palace of Salensus Oll . 
A quick glance about they took . 
Then they were gone , but not before a taunting laugh was thrown directly in my face by the woman . 
I did not understand then the meaning of Matai Shang's rage or Phaidor's pleasure , but I knew that neither boded good for me . 
For the Prince of Helium ! they cried . 
For the Prince of Helium ! and , like hungry lions upon their prey , they fell once more upon the weakening warriors of the north . 
The yellow men , cornered between two enemies , fought with the desperation that utter hopelessness often induces . 
It was a glorious battle , but the end seemed inevitable , when presently from down the corridor behind the red men came a great body of reenforcing yellow warriors . 
Now were the tables turned , and it was the men of Helium who seemed doomed to be ground between two millstones . 
All were compelled to turn to meet this new assault by a greatly superior force , so that to me was left the remnants of the yellow men within the throneroom . 
They kept me busy , too so busy that I began to wonder if indeed I should ever be done with them . 
So it was with no feelings of despair that I turned my attention to the business of the moment . 
Once again had Dejah Thoris fallen into the clutches of that archfiend , Thurid , the black dator of the First Born . 
Again was all my arduous labor gone for naught . 
Now I realized the cause of the rage that had been writ so large upon the features of Matai Shang and the cruel pleasure that I had seen upon the face of Phaidor . 
My first thought was to look beyond the draperies at the back of the throne , for there it was that I had seen Thurid . 
With a single jerk I tore the priceless stuff from its fastenings , and there before me was revealed a narrow doorway behind the throne . 
I had followed but a short distance when I came upon the room in which Solan formerly had held sway . 
For a moment I paused uncertain as to which of the several exits from the apartment would lead me upon the right path . 
At the end of this corridor I shall come to a spiral runway which I must follow down instead of up after that the way is along but a single branchless corridor . 
And I recalled the exit at which he had pointed as he spoke . 
It did not take me long to start upon that unknown way , nor did I go with caution , although I knew that there might be grave dangers before me . 
Part of the way was black as sin , but for the most it was fairly well lighted . 
Scarce had I returned to the tunnel than I stumbled over a portion of a fur garment that seemed fastened to the floor of the corridor close to the wall . 
In the darkness I could not see what held it , but by groping with my hands I discovered that it was wedged beneath the bottom of a closed door . 
Once more I stepped beyond the tunnel's mouth to find the fresh tracks of Thurid and Dejah Thoris in the new fallen snow . 
Through a snow covered canyon the way led up toward the summit of low hills . 
Beyond these it dipped again into another canon , only to rise a quarter mile farther on toward a pass which skirted the flank of a rocky hill . 
The four were Dejah Thoris , Phaidor , Thurid , and Matai Shang . 
The two men were engaged in a heated argument the Father of Therns threatening , while the black scoffed at him as he went about the work at which he was engaged . 
Here they made her fast , and then both again descended to the ground to complete the preparations for departure . 
Phaidor entered the small cabin upon the vessel's deck . 
I had come to within a quarter of a mile of them when Matai Shang espied me . 
The two redoubled their efforts at the propeller at which they were working , and which very evidently was being replaced after having been removed for some purpose of repair . 
They had the thing completed before I had covered half the distance that lay between me and them , and then both made a rush for the boarding ladder . 
I was still some hundred yards away as I saw them rising from my grasp . 
As I ran I saw Matai Shang clambering up the swaying , swinging ladder toward the deck , while above him leaned the evil face of the First Born . 
Now Matai Shang was close to the gunwale . 
A long , claw like hand was reaching up to grasp the metal rail . 
Thurid leaned farther down toward his co conspirator . 
Suddenly a raised dagger gleamed in the upflung hand of the black . 
Down it drove toward the white face of the Father of Therns . 
With a loud shriek of fear the Holy Hekkador grasped frantically at that menacing arm . 
I was almost to the trailing rope by now . 
The craft was still rising slowly , the while it drifted from me . 
With the blow upon my head came unconsciousness . 
With a mighty , catlike bound I sprang upward toward that slender strand the only avenue which yet remained that could carry me to my vanishing love . 
A foot above its lowest end my fingers closed . 
Tightly as I clung I felt the rope slipping , slipping through my grasp . 
Slowly I felt the tantalizing thing escaping me . 
In a moment all that I had gained would be lost then my fingers reached a knot at the very end of the rope and slipped no more . 
With a prayer of gratitude upon my lips I scrambled upward toward the boat's deck . 
It was Matai Shang , Holy Hekkador , Father of Therns , gone to his last accounting . 
Then my head came above the deck and I saw Thurid , dagger in hand , leaping toward me . 
He was opposite the forward end of the cabin , while I was attempting to clamber aboard near the vessel's stern . 
But a few paces lay between us . 
No power on earth could raise me to that deck before the infuriated black would be upon me . 
I knew it but had there been a doubt in my mind the nasty leer of triumph upon that wicked face would have convinced me . 
Beyond Thurid I could see my Dejah Thoris , wide eyed and horrified , struggling at her bonds . 
That she should be forced to witness my awful death made my bitter fate seem doubly cruel . 
I ceased my efforts to climb across the gunwale . 
Instead I took a firm grasp upon the rail with my left hand and drew my dagger . 
I should at least die as I had lived fighting . 
As Thurid came opposite the cabin's doorway a new element projected itself into the grim tragedy of the air that was being enacted upon the deck of Matai Shang's disabled flier . 
In her hand was a long , slim dagger . 
I cast a last look upon my beloved princess , smiling , as men should who are about to die . 
Then I turned my face up toward Phaidor waiting for the blow . 
Never have I seen that beautiful face more beautiful than it was at that moment . 
Thurid was beside her now pushing past to reach me first , and then what happened happened so quickly that it was all over before I could realize the truth of it . 
Phaidor's slim hand shot out to close upon the black's dagger wrist . 
Her right hand went high with its gleaming blade . 
That for Matai Shang ! she cried , and she buried her blade deep in the dator's breast . 
That for the wrong you would have done Dejah Thoris ! and again the sharp steel sank into the bloody flesh . 
Then , with a vindictive shove she cast the carcass of the First Born from the deck to fall in awful silence after the body of his victim . 
A wan smile touched her lips it was not the cruel and haughty smile of the goddess with which I was familiar . 
You wonder , John Carter , she said , what strange thing has wrought this change in me ? I will tell you . 
It is love love of you , and when I darkened my brows in disapproval of her words she raised an appealing hand . 
But I am unhappy because of the wickedness that I have wrought . 
I have many sins to expiate , and though I be deathless , life is all too short for the atonement . 
With her last word she turned and leaped from the vessel's deck into the abyss below . 
With a cry of horror I sprang forward in a vain attempt to save the life that for two years I would so gladly have seen extinguished . 
With tear dimmed eyes I turned away that I might not see the awful sight beneath . 
THE NEW RULER The flier upon whose deck Dejah Thoris and I found ourselves after twelve long years of separation proved entirely useless . 
Her buoyancy tanks leaked badly . 
Her engine would not start . 
We were helpless there in mid air above the arctic ice . 
The craft had drifted across the chasm which held the corpses of Matai Shang , Thurid , and Phaidor , and now hung above a low hill . 
Through the tunnel that had led me in pursuit of them we passed , walking slowly , for we had much to say to each other . 
She told me of that last terrible moment months before when the door of her prison cell within the Temple of the Sun was slowly closing between us . 
Of how Phaidor had sprung upon her with uplifted dagger , and of Thuvia's shriek as she had realized the foul intention of the thern goddess . 
She told me , too , of the awful eternity of her imprisonment . 
Presently we came to the chamber of Solan . 
I had been proceeding without thought of caution , for I was sure that the city and the palace were both in the hands of my friends by this time . 
And so it was that I bolted into the chamber full into the midst of a dozen nobles of the court of Salensus Oll . 
They were passing through on their way to the outside world along the corridors we had just traversed . 
At sight of us they halted in their tracks , and then an ugly smile overspread the features of their leader . 
The author of all our misfortunes ! he cried , pointing at me . 
We shall have the satisfaction of a partial vengeance at least when we leave behind us here the dead and mutilated corpses of the Prince and Princess of Helium . 
When they find them , he went on , jerking his thumb upward toward the palace above , they will realize that the vengeance of the yellow man costs his enemies dear . 
I stood close to the instrument covered wall Dejah Thoris at my side . 
The yellow nobles , too , looked in surprise , and then as I made no move to draw they hesitated , fearing a ruse but their leader urged them on . 
As one they came to a sudden stop , casting affrighted glances at me and at one another . 
Stop ! shrieked their leader . 
You dream not what you do ! Right you are , I replied . 
John Carter does not dream . 
The nobles shrank back , whispering together for a few moments . 
At last their leader turned to me . 
Go your way , John Carter , he said , and we shall go ours . 
Prisoners do not go their own way , I answered , and you are prisoners prisoners of the Prince of Helium . 
Before they could make answer a door upon the opposite side of the apartment opened and a score of yellow men poured into the apartment . 
Well done , John Carter , he cried . 
You turn their own mighty power against them . 
Then indeed would we have had a more villainous ruler than the hated tyrant who fell before your sword . 
Here was a vast concourse of warriors . 
There were savage , green warriors from the dead sea bottoms of the south , and a handful of white skinned therns who had renounced their religion and sworn allegiance to Xodar . 
There was Tardos Mors and Mors Kajak , and tall and mighty in his gorgeous warrior trappings , Carthoris , my son . 
I did not need to ask to know what had sent them thither the courageous jeddak and his loyal daughter . 
Looking down upon that crowded chamber stood the silent and empty throne of Okar . 
Twenty two years before I had been cast , naked and a stranger , into this strange and savage world . 
The hand of every race and nation was raised in continual strife and warring against the men of every other land and color . 
And as I thought , I saw but one way , and a single man who could insure the success of my hopes . 
As is ever the way with me , I acted then as I always act without deliberation and without consultation . 
Warriors of Barsoom , I cried , Kadabra has fallen , and with her the hateful tyrant of the north but the integrity of Okar must be preserved . 
There be but one warrior best fitted for the ancient and mighty title of Jeddak of Jeddaks of the North . 
The handsome head of the handsome youth was bent low above the beautiful face of his companion . 
We bade our yellow friends farewell with real regret , as we set sail for Ptarth . 
There we remained , the guest of Thuvan Dihn , for a month and I could see that Carthoris would have remained forever had he not been a Prince of Helium . 
Above the mighty forests of Kaol we hovered until word from Kulan Tith brought us to his single landing tower , where all day and half a night the vessels disembarked their crews . 
The people had long been preparing for our coming . 
The sky was gorgeous with gaily trimmed fliers . 
Every roof within both cities was spread with costly silks and tapestries . 
At last , after twelve years , the royal family of Helium was reunited in their own mighty city , surrounded by joy mad millions before the palace gates . 
Women and children and mighty warriors wept in gratitude for the fate that had restored their beloved Tardos Mors and the divine princess whom the whole nation idolized . 
Nor did any of us who had been upon that expedition of indescribable danger and glory lack for plaudits . 
As our flier touched the landing stage at the temple's top we saw countless other craft arriving and departing . 
In the streets below a great multitude surged toward the great gates of the temple . 
A right royal tribunal indeed , and such a one , I warrant , as never before sat together during all the history of ancient Mars . 
As I entered , silence fell upon the great concourse of people that packed the auditorium . 
With the others he read of all that I had done within the circle of the Otz Mountains where the Holy Therns and the First Born had held sway . 
When the reading had ceased Tardos Mors arose . 
Most righteous judges , he exclaimed , you have heard recited all that is known of John Carter , Prince of Helium the good with the bad . 
He turned a baleful eye upon me he , Tars Tarkas , with whom I had fought through countless battles whom I loved as a brother . 
I could have wept had I not been so mad with rage that I almost whipped my sword out and had at them all upon the spot . 
Judges , he said , there can be but one verdict . 
Straight to the Throne of Righteousness they bore her , and there Tardos Mors assisted her from the car , leading her forward to my side . 
Let a world's most beautiful woman share the honor of her husband , he said . 
Before them all I drew my wife close to me and kissed her upon the lips . 
