This etext was prepared by Metra Kay Christofferson metra theonramp . 
Wonderful Balloon Ascents or , the Conquest of the Skies A History of Balloons and Balloon Voyages . 
The discovery or the invention of the balloon , however , was one of those efforts of genius and enterprise which have no infancy . 
It had reached its full growth when it burst upon the world , and the ninety years which have since elapsed have witnessed no development of the original idea . 
There are few more tantalising stories in the annals of invention than this . 
So much had been accomplished when Roziers made his first aerial voyage above the astonished capital of France that all the rest seemed easy . 
But from that moment to the present the prospect which was thus opened up has remained a vision and nothing more . 
There are as those who visited the Crystal Palace two years ago have reason to know not a few men who still believe in the practicability of journeying by air . 
But , with hardly an exception , those few have abandoned all idea of utilising the balloon for this purpose . 
Not the less , however , is the story of this wonderful invention worthy of being recorded . 
It deserves a place in the history of human enterprise if for nothing else because of the daring courage which it has in so many cases brought to light . 
There is , however , another aspect which makes at least the earlier history of the balloon well worth preserving . 
This is the influence which the invention had upon the generation which witnessed it . 
As these pages show , the people of Europe seem to have been absolutely intoxicated by the success of the Montgolfiers' discovery . 
There is something bitterly suggestive in our knowledge of this fact . 
England , when it remembers the story of the steam engine , has little need to grudge France the honour of discovering the balloon . 
After all , however , Great Britain had its share in that discovery . 
Black of Edinburgh , who first employed that gas to raise a globe in which it was contained from the earth . 
Possibly our readers , after they have perused this volume , may think that Dr Black was not after all so far wrong as people once imagined . 
PART I. THE CONQUEST OF THE SKIES . 
The mathematical and physical sciences had in aeronautics achieved apparently their greatest honours , and inaugurated a new era in the progress of knowledge . 
In the streets the praises of the balloon were sung in the libraries models of it abounded and in the salons the one universal topic was the great machine . 
Political events , and the fortunes of armies monopolised almost entirely the attention of the people . 
But to this rule there are two exceptions the discoveries of America and of aerostatics , the advents of Columbus and of Montgolfier . 
It is not here our duty to inquire how it happened that the discoveries made by these two personages are classed together . 
The processions of Seville and Barcelona are the exact prototypes of the fetes of Lyons and Paris . 
In France , each one following his own notions , made out for himself special benefits to flow from the discovery of balloons . 
Every discovery then appeared to be only the precursor of other and greater discoveries , and nothing after that time seemed to be impossible to him who attempted the conquest of the atmosphere . 
This idea clothed itself in every form . 
The young embraced it with enthusiasm , the old made it the subject of endless regrets . 
The moon , the mysterious dwelling place of men unknown , would no longer be an inaccessible place . 
Space no longer contained regions which man could not cross ! Indeed , certain expeditions attempted the crossing of the heavens , and brought back news of the moon . 
This enthusiasm one can well enough understand . 
There is in the simple fact of an aerial ascent something so bold and so astonishing , that the human spirit cannot fail to be profoundly stirred by it . 
Our age is the most renowned for its discoveries of any that the world has seen . 
The air alone remains to him unsubdued . 
The proper management of balloons has not yet been discovered . 
At present , as in former times , we are at the mercy of balloons globes lighter than the air , and therefore the sport and the prey of tempests and currents . 
And aeronauts , instead of showing themselves now as the benefactors of mankind , exhibit themselves mainly to gratify a frivolous curiosity , or to crown with eclat a public fete . 
Attempts in Ancient Times to Fly in the Air . 
By this it is to be understood that , unlike Copernicus and Columbus , Montgolfier could not read in history of any similar discovery , containing the germ of his own feat . 
At least , we have no proof that the ancient nations practiced the art of aerial navigation to any extent whatever . 
The attempts which we are about to cite do not strictly belong to the history of aerostatics . 
The wings , it appears , were soldered with wax , and Icarus , flying too high , was struck by a ray of the sun , which melted the wax . 
The youth fell into the sea , which from him derived its name of Icarian . 
It is possible that this fable only symbolisms the introduction of sails in navigation . 
Its flight , it is said , was accomplished by means of a mechanical contrivance , by the vibrations of which it was sustained in the air . 
In the year A. D. , in the time of Nero , Simon , the magician who called himself the mechanician made certain experiments at Rome of flying at a certain height . 
In the eyes of the early Christians this power was attributed to the devil , and St . 
Peter , the namesake of this flying man , is said to have prayed fervently while Simon was amusing himself in space . 
It was possibly in answer to his prayers that the magician failed in his flight , fell upon the Forum , and broke his neck on the spot . 
From the summit of the tower of the hippodrome at Constantinople , a certain Saracen met the same fate as Simon , in the reign of the Emperor Comnenus . 
His experiments were conducted on the principle of the inclined plane . 
He descended in an oblique course , using the resistance of the air as a support . 
His robe , very long and very large , and of which the flaps were extended on an osier frame , preserved him from suddenly falling . 
Roger Bacon , in the thirteenth century , inaugurated a more scientific era . 
In the same treatise he sketches a flying machine , to which that of Blanchard , who lived in the eighteenth century , bears a certain resemblance . 
The monk , Roger Bacon , was worthy of entering the temple of fame before his great namesake the Lord Chancellor , who in the seventeenth century inaugurated the era of experimental science . 
It is recorded that on many occasions he experimented with his wings on the Lake Thrasymenus . 
These experiments , however , had a sad end . 
A similar accident befell a learned English Benedictine Oliver of Malmesbury . 
This ecclesiastic was considered gifted with the power of foretelling events but , like other similarly circumstanced , he does not seem to have beer able to divine the fate which awaited himself . 
He constructed wings after the model of those which according to Ovid , Daedalus made use of . 
These he attached to his arms and his feet , and , thus furnished , he threw himself from the height of a tower . 
But the wings bore him up for little more than a distance of paces . 
He fell at the foot of the tower , broke his legs , and from that moment led a languishing life . 
He consoled himself , however , in his misfortune by saying that his attempt must certainly have succeeded had he only provided himself with a tail . 
Before going further , let us take notice that the seventeenth century is , par excellence , the century distinguished for narratives of imaginary travels . 
It was then that astronomy opened up its world of marvels . 
The knowledge of observers was vastly increased , and from that time it became possible to distinguish the surface of the moon and of other celestial bodies . 
Thus a new world , as it were , was revealed for human thought and speculation . 
We learned that our globe was not , as we had supposed , the centre of the universe . 
It was assigned its place far from that centre , and was known to be no more than a mere atom , lost amid an incalculable number of other globes . 
The revelations of the telescope proved that those who formerly were considered wise actually knew nothing . 
Quickly following these discoveries , extraordinary narratives of excursions through space began to be given to the world . 
Those scientific romances were simply wild exaggerations , based upon the thinnest foundation of scientific facts . 
In order , however , to describe a journey among the stars , it was necessary to invent some mode of locomotion in these distant regions . 
, and his plan was more ingenious than that of Lucian . 
He trained a great number of the wild swans of St . 
At the end of twelve days he arrived , according to his story , at his destination . 
A little later another writer of this peculiar kind of fiction , Wilkins , an Englishman , professed to have made the same ascent , borne up by an eagle . 
Alexandre Dumas , who recently wrote a short romance upon the same subject , only made a translation of an English work by that author . 
Wilkins' work is entitled , The Discovery of a New World . 
And this , perhaps , might be made large enough to carry divers men at the same time , together with food for their viaticum , and commodities for traffic . 
It is not the bigness of anything in this kind that can hinder its motion if the motive faculty be answerable hereunto . 
We see that great ship swims as well as a small cork , and an eagle flies in the air as well as a little gnat . 
This engine may be contrived from the same principles by which Archytas made a wooden dove , and Regiomontanus a wooden eagle . 
to show more particularly the means of composing it . 
The perfecting of such an invention would be of such excellent use that it were enough , not only to make a man famous but the age wherein he lives . 
First , by means of phials filled with dew , which would attract and cause to mount up . 
Secondly , by a great bird made of wood , the wings of which should be kept in motion . 
Thirdly , by rockets , which , going off successively , would drive up the balloon by the force of projection . 
In Francis Lana constructed the flying machine shown on the next page . 
The specific lightness of heated air and of hydrogen gas not having yet been discovered , his only idea for making his globes rise was to take all the air out of them . 
But even supposing that the globes were thus rendered light enough to rise , they must inevitably have collapsed under the atmospheric pressure . 
an air boat , less chimerical in its form , looked at in view of the conditions of aerial navigation , but much more singular . 
Galien describes his air boat , in , in his little work entitled , The Art of Sailing in the Air . 
His project was a most extraordinary one , and its boldness is only equalled by the seriousness of the narrative . 
According to him , the atmosphere is divided into two horizontal layers , the upper of which is much lighter than the lower . 
But , says Galien , a ship keeps its place in the water because it is full of air , and air is much lighter than water . 
Galien adds that in the region of hail there was in the air a separation into two layers , the weights of which respectively are as to . 
But how to get this enormous air boat up to the region of hail ? This is a minor detail , respecting which Galien is not clear . 
Nor can the story of the ovoador , or flying man , a legend very confused , and of which there are many versions , have given to Montgolfier any valuable hints . 
Other versions of the story give a different date , and assign the pretended ascent to . 
The above engraving , extracted from the Bibliotheque de la Rue de Richelieu , is an exact copy of Guzman's supposed balloon . 
In a mechanician of Salle , in Maine , named Besnier invented a flying machine . 
Those in front are worked by the hands those behind by the feet , which are connected with the ends of the rods by strings . 
Tradition records that under Louis XIV . 
a certain rope dancer , named Alard , announced that on a certain day he would perform the feat of flying in the air . 
We have no description of his wings . 
Leonardo da Vinci might have known the art of flying in the air , and might even have practiced it . 
A statement to this effect , at least , is found in several historians . 
We have , however , no direct proof of the fact . 
The Abbe Deforges , of Etampes , announced in the journals in that he would perform the great feat . 
On the appointed day multitudes of the curious flocked to Etampes . 
The abbe's machine was a sort of gondola , seven feet long and about two feet deep . 
Gondola conductor , and baggage weighed in all pounds . 
The pious man believed that he had provided against everything . 
The great day came , and the abbe , entering his air boat amidst the applause of the spectators , began to work the wings with which it was provided with great rapidity . 
But , says one who witnessed the feat , the more he worked , the more his machine cleaved to the earth , as if it were part and parcel of it . 
The friction of the globes is supposed to develop electricity to which his power of ascending is ascribed . 
To wings , however , aerial adventurers mostly adhered . 
The Marquis de Racqueville flew from a window of his hotel , on the banks of the Seine , and fell into a boat full of washerwomen on the river . 
All these unfortunate attempts were lampooned , burlesqued on the stage , and pursued with the mockery of the public . 
Up to this time , therefore , the efforts of man to conquer the air had miscarried . 
Finally , Cavallo , in , communicated to the Royal Society of London the experiments he had made , and which consisted in filling soap bubbles with hydrogen . 
The bubbles rose in the atmosphere , the gas which filled them being lighter than air . 
But this principle applies to gas as well as to liquids to air as well as to water . 
When we weigh a body in the air , we do not find its absolute weight , but that weight minus the weight of the air which the body displaces . 
In order to know the exact weight of an object , it would be necessary to weigh it in a vacuum . 
We all know , of course , that the higher you rise from the earth the density of the air diminishes . 
The stratum of air that lies upon the surface of the earth is the heaviest , because it supports the pressure of all the other strata that lie above . 
Thus the lightest strata are the highest . 
The principle of the construction of balloons is , therefore , in perfect harmony with physical laws . 
We are accustomed to rank the brothers Joseph and Etienne Montgolfier as equally distinguished in the field of science . 
His first balloon was a small parallelopiped in very thin taffeta , containing less than seventy eight cubic inches of air . 
He made it rise to the roof of his apartment in November , at Avignon , where he then happened to be . 
Having returned some little time after to Annonay , Joseph and his brother performed the same experiment , together in the open air with perfect success . 
Certain , then , of the new principle , they made a balloon of considerable size , containing upwards of sixty five feet of heated air . 
The brothers Montgolfier then made a very large and strong balloon , with which they wished to bring their discovery before the public . 
The appointed day was the th of June , and the nobility of the vicinity were invited to be present at the experiment . 
At last the brothers Montgolfier commenced their work . 
They first of all began to make the smoke necessary for their experiment . 
It then described a horizontal line of , feet , and as it had lost a considerable amount of gas , it began to descend quietly . 
It reached the ground in safety and this first attempt , crowned with such decisive success , secured for ever to the brothers Montgolfier the glory of one of the most astonishing discoveries . 
Etienne Montgolfier has left us a description of this first balloon . 
The aerostatic machine , he says , was constructed of cloth lined with paper , fastened together on a network of strings fixed to the cloth . 
It was spherical its circumference was feet , and a wooden frame sixteen feet square held it fixed at the bottom . 
Its contents were about , cubic feet , and it accordingly displaced a volume of air weighing , bs . 
The weight of the gas was nearly half the weight of the air , for it weighed lbs . 
, and the machine itself , with the frame , weighed it was , therefore , impelled upwards with the force of lbs . 
Two men sufficed to raise it and to fill it with gas , but it took eight to hold it down till the signal was given . 
The different pieces of the covering were fastened together with buttons and button holes . 
It remained ten minutes in the air , but the loss of gas by the button holes , and by other imperfections , did not permit it to continue longer . 
The wind at the moment of the ascent was from the north . 
The machine came down so lightly that no part of it was broken . 
The indescribable enthusiasm caused by the ascent of the first balloon at Annonay , spread in all directions , and excited the wondering curiosity of the savants of the capital . 
An official report had been prepared , and sent to the Academy of Sciences in Paris , and the result was that the Academy named a commission of inquiry . 
The thing thus arranged , a subscription was opened . 
The projected experiment having been talked of a l over Paris , every one was struck with the idea , and subscriptions poured in . 
Even the most illustrious names are to be found in the list , which may be called the first national subscription in France . 
Nothing had been written of the forthcoming event in any public paper , yet all Paris seemed to flock to contribute to the curious experiment . 
The inflation with hydrogen was effected in a very curious manner . 
As much as , lbs . 
of sulphuric acid were found necessary to inflate a balloon which had scarcely a lifting power of lbs . 
, and the process of filling took no less than four hours . 
At two o'clock on the following morning its constructors began to make preparations to transport it to the Champ de Mars , from which place it was to be let loose . 
Skilled workmen were employed in its removal , and every precaution was taken that the gas with which it was charged should not be allowed to escape . 
In the meantime the excitement of the people about this wonderful structure was rising to the highest pitch . 
The conveyance of the balloon to the Champ de Mars was a most singular spectacle . 
A vanguard , with lighted torches , preceded it it was surrounded by special attendants , and was followed by detachments of night patrols on foot and mounted . 
At last , having passed through the principal thoroughfares , it arrived at the Champ de Mars , where it was placed in an enclosure prepared for its reception . 
The Champ de Mars was guarded by troops , and the avenues were also guarded on all sides . 
As the day wore on an immense crowd covered the open space , and every advantageous spot in the neighborhood was crowded with people . 
The cords were withdrawn , and , to the vast delight and wonder of the crowd assembled , the balloon shot up with such rapidity that in two minutes it had ascended fathoms . 
At this height it was lost in a cloud for an instant , and , reappearing , rose to a great height , and was again lost in higher clouds . 
The ascent was a splendid success . 
The rain that fell damped neither the balloon nor the ardor of the spectators . 
This balloon was feet in diameter , feet in circumference , and had a capacity of cubic feet . 
The weight of the materials of which it was constructed was lbs . 
, and the force of ascension was that of lbs . 
The fall of the balloon was caused by the expansion and consequent explosion of the hydrogen gas . 
The cure of the parish was obliged to walk up to the balloon to reassure his terrified flock . 
They finally attached the burst envelope to a horse's tail , and dragged it far across the fields . 
The news of this fiasco came to Paris , but too late . 
When search was made for the covering , scarcely a fragment could be found . 
A somewhat humorous result of all this was the issue of a communication from government to the people , entitled , Warning to the People on kidnapping Air balloons . 
This first ascent in Paris was an important event . 
Every one , from the smallest to the greatest , was deeply interested in it , while to the man of science it was one of the most exciting of incidents . 
, and d'Agelet was on the Champ de Mars . 
It was only Lalande that frowned as he witnessed the success of the experiment . 
He had predicted the year before that air navigation was impossible . 
As we have seen , the triumph of aerostation was sudden and complete . 
The young Montgolfier had arrived in Paris prior to the experiment of the th of August , and was present as a simple spectator on that occasion . 
that those small balloons , made of gold beaters' skin , which are used as children's toys to the present day , were first made . 
The whole of Paris amused itself with them , repeating in little the phenomenon of the great ascent . 
The sky of the capital found itself all at once traversed by a multitude of small rosy clouds , formed by the hand of man . 
It was necessary to seek a material less porous , and , if possible , still lighter . 
At noon of the same day he made this experiment in presence of a numerous assembly in the garden in front of the Hotel de Surgeres . 
The little balloon mounted freely , but was held in , like a kite , by means of a silk thread . 
In the course of the same afternoon , the baron took down the balloon and filled it anew with hydrogen , and then let it off . 
However trifling this experiment may appear at first sight , it added a new fact to the science of aerostation . 
The material employed by the baron was lighter and better than paper . 
It was what is called gold beaters' skin . 
This skin is simply the interior lining of the large bowel of the ox . 
It is carefully prepared , is relieved of the fat , stringy and uneven parts , is dried , and is afterwards softened . 
Little balloons of this material came to be the fashion , and they are still frequently seen . 
He took up his quarters in the magnificent gardens of his friend Reveillon , proprietor of the royal manufactory of stained paper in the Faubourg St . 
It was made of packing cloth , lined with good paper , both inside and out . 
the air which it displaced was , lbs . 
in volume , and the vapor with which it was filled was half the weight of ordinary air . 
The approach of the equinox having brought rain , all the conditions under which this balloon was constructed and exhibited were unfavourable . 
It was a great labour to turn and fold this heavy covering , while the liability of the thick paper to crack was an additional difficulty . 
Not less than twenty men were required to move it , and they were obliged to use all their skill , and every precaution , not to destroy it . 
No balloon had ever given so much trouble . 
On the th of September the weather improved , and the balloon was entirely completed and prepared for the first experiment . 
In the evening the attempt was made . 
It was firmly held in hand , or it would have risen to a great height . 
On the following day the actual ascent was to take place , and the commissioners of the Academy of Sciences were invited to be present . 
Fifty pounds of dry straw were fired in parcels under the balloon , and upon the fire were thrown at intervals several pounds of wool . 
This fuel produced in ten minutes such a volume of smoke that the huge balloon was speedily filled . 
It rose , with a weight of lbs . 
Meantime the storm broke , rain descended , and the wind blew with great force . 
It withstood the storm for twenty four hours then , however , the paper came peeling off , and this beautiful structure was a wreck . 
Of course another balloon was wanted for the fete at Versailles . 
The king had demanded an ascent for the th , a week after the disaster at the Faubourg St . 
Already the possibility of a man going up with the balloon was discussed , and people indulged in visions of splendid aerial trips but the king would not hear of the proposal . 
Balloons were novelties , not offering sufficient security , and he was unwilling that any of his subjects should risk their lives in attempting the unknown . 
Montgolfier at once began a new balloon . 
It is proper here to remark that the first balloons were much more elegant in appearance than those afterwards made . 
The coloured prints and engravings of the period enable us to form an opinion of the splendour of their ornamentation and the beauty of their design . 
The Versailles balloon was painted blue , with ornaments of gold , and it presented the form of a richly decorated tent . 
It was fifty seven feet in height , and sixty seven in diameter . 
It was first tried at Paris , and succeeded perfectly . 
A numerous guard formed a double cordon around the structure . 
Through this funnel the heated air ascended straight up into the balloon . 
At six in the morning , the road from Paris to Versailles was covered with carriages . 
Crowds came from all parts , and at noon the avenues , the square of the castle , the windows , and even the roofs of the houses , were crowded with spectators . 
Its highest elevation , as estimated by the astronomers Le Gentil and M. Jeaurat , Jeaurat , was about , feet . 
The osier cage of Versailles very soon transformed itself into a car , bearing human passengers , and the age of the Thousand and One Nights was expected to come back again . 
It was resolved to continue experiments , with the direct object of finding out whether it was impossible or desperately dangerous for man to travel in balloons . 
Montgolfier returned from Versailles , and constructed a new machine in the gardens of the Faubourg St . 
It was completed on the th of October Its form was oval , its height feet , its diameter feet and its capacity , ooo cubic feet . 
The upper part , embroidered with fleurs de lis , was further ornamented with the twelve signs of the zodiac , worked in gold . 
The middle part bore the monogram of the king , alternating with figures of the sun , while the lower part was garnished with masks , garlands , and spread eagles . 
A circular gallery made of osiers and festooned with draperies and other ornaments , was attached by a set of cords to the bottom of the structure . 
The gallery was three feet wide , and was protected by a parapet over three feet in height . 
The machine weighed , in all , , lbs . 
At this elevation it remained four minutes twenty five seconds and it is not surprising to hear that Roziers suffered no inconvenience from the ascent . 
On Friday , the th of October , this experiment was repeated , and the excitement of the public on this occasion was unbounded . 
All the world came to see . 
in the other side of the gallery , was carried up to the height of feet . 
The machine remained six minutes at this elevation without any fire in the grating . 
Second Ascent The machine carried Roziers and the counterbalancing weight fire being in the grating to the height of feet . 
The intrepid Roziers gave in this ascent a further proof of the facility he had in descending and ascending at will . 
At this elevation the balloon rested in perfect equilibrium for nine minutes . 
The balloon had a superb effect at this elevation it looked down upon the whole town , and was seen from all the suburbs . 
Its size seemed hardly diminished in the least , though the men themselves were barely visible . 
By the aid of glasses , Roziers could be seen calmly and industriously making new gas . 
When the balloon descended the two men declared that they had not experienced the slightest inconvenience from the elevation . 
They received the universal applause which their zeal and courage so well deserved . 
The Marquis d'Arlandes , a major of infantry , afterwards went up with Roziers , and this latter experiment was as successful as the former . 
Some days after these experiments the conductors of the Journal de Paris who described them , received a letter from Montgolfier , and also one from Gerond de Villette . 
The latter only is of interest here . 
Gerond de Villette says I found myself in the space of a quarter of a minute raised feet above the surface of the earth . 
Here we remained six minutes . 
My first employment was to watch with admiration my intelligent companion . 
His intelligence , his courage and agility in attending to the fire , enchanted me . 
Turning round , I could behold the Boulevards , from the gate of St . 
Antoine to that of St . 
Martin , all covered with people , who seemed to me a flat band of flowers of various colours . 
Glancing at the distance , I beheld the summit of Montmartre , which seemed to me much below our level . 
I could easily distinguish Neuilly , St . 
Cloud , Sevres , Issy , Ivry , Charenton , and Choisy . 
believe that at sea it is equally possible to make use of this machine . 
These prove the usefulness of the balloon , which time will perfect for us . 
All that I regret is that I did not provide myself with a telescope . 
The First Aerial Voyage Roziers and Arlandes . 
These experiments had only one aim the application of Montgolfier's discovery to aerial navigation . 
The knowledge gained in the Faubourg St . 
Antoine having led to the most favourable conclusions , it was resolved that a first aerial voyage should be attempted . 
The narrative of the first aerial voyage , written by one of the two first aeronauts , exists , and we are in a position to place it before our readers . 
Two men opposed the first attempt . 
She warmly supported his cause before Louis . 
Roziers dispatched the Marquis d'Arlandes , who had been up with him , to the king . 
Arlandes asserted that there was no danger , and , as proof of his conviction , he offered himself to accompany Roziers . 
Solicited on all sides , Louis at last yielded . 
The gardens of La Muette , near Paris , were fixed upon as the spot from which this aerial expedition should start . 
The Dauphin and his suite were present on the occasion . 
It was on the st of October , , at one o'clock p . 
, that Roziers and Irelands took their leave of the earth for the first time . 
I wish to describe as well as I can the first journey which men have attempted through an element which , prior to the discovery of MM . 
Montgolfier , seemed so little fitted to support them . 
We went up on the st of October , , at near two o'clock , M. Roziers on the west side of the balloon , I on the east . 
The wind was nearly north west . 
'Pardon me , I answered , as I placed a bundle of straw upon the fire and slightly stirred it . 
Then I turned quickly , but already we had passed out of sight of La Muette . 
Astonished , I cast a glance towards the river . 
I perceived the confluence of the Oise . 
And naming the principal bends of the river by the places nearest them , I cried , 'Passy , St . 
Denis , Sevres ! 'If you look at the river in that fashion you will be likely to bathe in it soon , cried Roziers . 
'That river is very difficult to cross , I remarked to my companion . 
'So it seems , he answered 'but you are doing nothing I suppose it is because you are braver than , and don't fear a tumble . 
I stirred the fire , I seized a truss of straw with my fork I raised it and threw it in the midst of the flames . 
An instant afterwards I felt myself lifted as it were into the heavens . 
'For once we move , said I. 'Yes , we move , answered my companion . 
At the same instant I heard from the top of the balloon a sound which made me believe that it had burst . 
I watched , yet I saw nothing . 
My companion had gone into the interior , no doubt to make some observations . 
As my eyes were fixed on the top of the machine I experienced a shock , and it was the only one I had yet felt . 
The direction of the movement was from above downwards I then said 'What are you doing ? Are you having a dance to yourself ? 'I'm not moving . 
It is only a new current which I hope will carry us from the river , I answered . 
I turned to see where we were , and found we were between the Ecole Militaire and the Invalides . 
'Yes , we are travelling . 
'Let us work , let us work , said he . 
I now heard another report in the machine , which I believed was produced by the cracking of a cord . 
This new intimation made me carefully examine the inside of our habitation . 
I saw that the part that was turned towards the south was full of holes , of which some were of a considerable size . 
'It must descend , I then cried . 
'Why ? 'Look ! I said . 
'We must descend , I repeated to my companion . 
'We are upon Paris , he said . 
'It does not matter , I answered 'Only look ! Is there no danger ? Are you holding on well ? 'Yes . 
I examined from my side , and saw that we had nothing to fear . 
I then tried with my sponge the ropes which were within my reach . 
All of them held firm . 
Only two of the cords had broken . 
I then said , 'We can cross Paris . 
During this operation we were rapidly getting down to the roofs . 
We made more fire , and rose again with the greatest ease . 
I looked down , and it seemed to me we were going towards the towers of St . 
Sulpice but , on rising , a new current made us quit this direction and bear more to the south . 
I looked to the left , and beheld a wood , which I believed to be that of Luxembourg . 
I then threw a bundle of straw on the fire . 
We rose again , and another current bore us to were now close to the ground , between two mills . 
As soon to the left . 
We as we came near the earth I raised myself over the gallery , and leaning there with my two hands , I felt the balloon pressing softly against my head . 
I pushed it back , and leaped down to the ground . 
Looking round and expecting to see the balloon still distended , I was astonished to find it quite empty and flattened . 
On looking for Roziers I saw him in his shirt sleeves creeping out from under the mass of canvas that had fallen over him . 
Before attempting to descend he had put off his coat and placed it in the basket . 
After a deal of trouble we were at last all right . 
As Roziers was without a coat I besought him to go to the nearest house . 
The following report of this first aerial voyage was drawn up by scientific observers , among other signatures to it being that of Benjamin Franklin . 
Today st of October , , at the Chateau de la Muette , an experiment was made with the aerostatic machine of M. Montgolfier . 
The sky was clouded in many parts , clear in others the wind north west . 
At mid day a signal was given , which announced that the balloon was being filled . 
Soon after , in spite of the wind , it was inflated in all its parts , and the ascent was made . 
The Marquis d'Arlandes and M. Pilatre des Roziers were in the gallery . 
The machine , being brought back to its place , was repaired in less than two hours . 
One could not resist a feeling of mingled fear and admiration . 
Soon the aeronauts were lost to view , but the balloon itself , displaying its very beautiful shape , mounted to the height of , feet , and still remained visible . 
They then descended tranquilly in the country , beyond the new boulevard , without having experienced the slightest inconvenience , having still the greater part of their fuel untouched . 
They could , had they desired , have cleared a distance three times as great as that which they traversed . 
Their flight was nearly , feet , and the time it occupied was from twenty to twenty five minutes . 
This machine was feet high , feet in diameter , and had a capacity of , cubic feet . 
The first ascent of Roziers and Arlandes was a feat of hardihood almost unique . 
The men's courage was , so to speak , their only guarantee . 
Thanks to the balloon , however , they accomplished one of the most extraordinary enterprises ever achieved by our race . 
Charles created all the contrivances , or , in other words , all the ingenious precautions which make up the art of aerostation . 
The ascent was fixed for the st of December , , a memorable day for the Parisians . 
The humbler subscribers , at three francs a head , occupied the rest of the garden . 
The roofs and windows of the houses were crowded , whilst the Pont Royal and the square of Louis XV . 
were covered by an immense multitude . 
About mid day a rumour was spread to the effect that the king forbade the ascent . 
Taking this high ground , the bold professor gained an unwilling permission to carry out his undertaking . 
A little afterwards the sound of cannon was heard . 
But whatever ill feeling might have existed was swept away by Professor Charles with a compliment . 
From this point let us follow the narrative of Professor Charles himself . 
Meanwhile , we hastily prepared for departure . 
After the balloon and the car were in equilibrium , we threw over lbs . 
of ballast , and we rose in the midst of silence , arising from the emotion and surprise felt on all sides . 
Nothing will ever equal that moment of joyous excitement which filled my whole being when I felt myself flying away from the earth . 
It was not mere pleasure it was perfect bliss . 
Escaped from the frightful torments of persecution and of calumny , I felt that I was answering all in rising above all . 
To this sentiment succeeded one more lively still the admiration of the majestic spectacle that spread itself out before us . 
On whatever side we looked , all was glorious a cloudless sky above , a most delicious view around . 
M. Robert made an inventory of our stores our friends had stocked our commissariat as for a long voyage champagne and other wines , garments of fur and other articles of clothing . 
'Good , I said 'throw that out of the window . 
He took a blanket and launched it into the air , through which it floated down slowly , and fell upon the dome of l'Assomption . 
When the barometer had fallen inches , we ceased to ascend . 
We were up at an elevation of , feet . 
If circumstances had permitted us to measure the amount of ballast we threw over , our course would have been almost absolutely horizontal . 
After remaining for a few moments stationary , our car I changed its course , and we were carried on at the will of the wind . 
Soon we passed the Seine , between St . 
We traversed the river a second time , leaving Argenteuil upon the left . 
We passed Sannois , Franconville , Eau Bonne , St . 
Leu Taverny , Villiers , and finally , Nesles . 
This was about twenty seven miles from Paris , and we had I reached this distance in two hours , although there was so little wind that the air scarcely stirred . 
During the whole course of this delightful voyage , not the slightest apprehension for our fate or that of our machine entered my head for a moment . 
The globe did not suffer any alteration beyond the successive changes of dilatation and compression , which enabled us to mount and descend at will . 
At the end of fifty six minutes , we heard the report of the cannon which informed us that we had , at that moment , disappeared from view at Paris . 
We rejoiced that we had escaped , as we were no longer obliged to observe a horizontal course , and to regulate the balloon for that purpose . 
We gave ourselves up to the contemplation of the views which the immense stretch of country beneath us presented . 
We cried , 'Vive le Roi ! and the people responded . 
We heard , very distinctly 'My good friends , have you no fear ? Are you not sick ? How beautiful it is ! Heaven preserve you ! Adieu , my friends . 
I was touched to tears by this tender and true interest which our appearance had called forth . 
We continued to wave our flags without cessation , and we perceived that these signals greatly increased the cheerfulness and calmed the solicitude of the people below . 
Often we descended sufficiently low to hear what they shouted to us . 
They asked us where we came from , and at what hour we had started . 
We threw over successively frock coats , muffs , and habits . 
Sailing on above the Ile d'Adam , after having admired the splendid view , we made signals with our flags , and demanded news of the Prince of Conti . 
One cried up to us , in a very powerful voice , that he was at Paris , and that he was ill . 
Finally , we arrived at the plain of Nesles . 
We saw from the distance groups of peasants , who ran on before us across the fields . 
'Let us go , I said , and we descended towards a vast meadow . 
Some shrubs and trees stood round its border . 
Our car advanced majestically in a long inclined plane . 
On arriving near the trees , I feared that their branches might damage the car , so I threw over two pounds of ballast , and we rose again . 
We ran along more than feet , at a distance of one or two feet from the ground , and had the appearance of travelling in a sledge . 
The peasants ran after us without being able to catch us , like children pursuing a butterfly in the fields . 
Finally , we stopped , and were instantly surrounded . 
Nothing could equal the simple and tender regard of the country people , their admiration , and their lively emotion . 
I called at once for the cures and the magistrates . 
They came round me on all sides there was quite a fete on the spot . 
I prepared a short report , which the cures and the syndics signed . 
Then arrived a company of horsemen at a gallop . 
These were the Duke of Chartres , the Duke of Fitzjames , and M. Farrer . 
By a very singular chance , we had come down close by the hunting lodge of the latter . 
He briefly narrated to the Duke of Chartres some incidents of the voyage . 
'But this is not all , monseigneur . 
I am going away again , added Charles . 
'What ! Going away ! exclaimed the duke . 
'Monseigneur , you will see . 
When do you wish me to come back again ? I said . 
'Very well be it so . 
In half an hour I shall be with you again . 
M. Robert descended from the car , and I was alone in the balloon . 
I said to the duke , 'Monseigneur , I go . 
I said to the peasants who held down the balloon , 'My friends , go away , all of you , from the car at the moment I give the signal . 
I then rose like a bird , and in ten minutes I was more than , feet above the ground . 
I no longer perceived terrestrial objects I only saw the great masses of nature . 
In going away , Charles had taken his precautions against the possible explosion of the balloon , and made himself ready to make certain observations . 
I waited for what should happen , continues he . 
The balloon , which was quite flabby and soft when I ascended , was now taut , and fully distended . 
I passed in ten minutes from the temperature of spring to that of winter the cold was keen and dry , but not insupportable . 
When the barometer ceased to move I noted very exactly eighteen inches ten lines . 
This observation is perfectly accurate The mercury did not suffer any sensible movement . 
At the end of some minutes the cold caught my fingers I could hardly hold the pen , but I no longer had need to do so . 
I was stationary , or rather moved only in a horizontal direction . 
I raised myself in the middle of the car , and abandoned myself to the spectacle before me . 
I was the only creature in the horizon in sunshine all the rest of nature was in shade . 
Ere long , however , the sun disappeared , and thus I had the pleasure of seeing him set twice in the same day . 
Their colour was a monotonous grey a natural effect , for there was no light save that of the moon . 
I observed that I had tacked round twice , and I felt currents which called me to my senses . 
I found with surprise the effect of the wind , and saw the cloth of my flag extended horizontally . 
This I attributed to the dilation of the air contained in the cellular tissue of the organ as much as to the cold outside . 
I was in my vest , with my head uncovered . 
I immediately covered my head with a bonnet of wool which was at my feet , but the pain only disappeared with my descent to the ground . 
It was now seven or eight minutes since I had arrived at this elevation , and I now commenced to descend . 
I remembered the promise I had made to the Duke of Chartres , to return in half an hour . 
I quickened my descent by opening the valve from time to time . 
Soon the balloon , empty now to one half , presented the appearance of a hemisphere . 
I then slowly descended upon the ground , which I had , so to speak , chosen . 
Such is the narrative of the second aerial voyage . 
After such a memorable ascent one is astonished to learn that Professor Charles never repeated his experiment . 
But after him a thousand others have followed the daring example he set . 
With this ascent the memorable year closed , and the seed which had been sown soon began to be productive . 
The History of Aerostation from the Year . 
Of course it may be easily understood with these safe balloons the adventurous aeronauts never ascended to any great height . 
The reader will find this subject treated under the chapter of military aerostation . 
We are at present specially engaged with the narrative of the first attempts in aerostation the first experiments in the new discovery . 
We have followed with interest the exciting details of the first adventurous ascents , in which the genius of man first essayed the unexplored paths of the heavens . 
Yet a continued record of aerial voyages would not be of the same interest . 
The results of subsequent expeditions , and the impressions of subsequent aeronauts are the same as those already described , or differ from them only in minor points . 
No important advance is recorded in the art . 
A number of balloons were remarkable for the beauty and elegance which we have already spoken of . 
Among the most beautiful we may mention the Flesselles balloon and Bagnolet's balloon . 
It took place at Lyons . 
The aim of the experiment proposed by Montgolfier was not the ascent of any human being in the balloon . 
The subscription was fixed at L , and the number of subscribers was . 
It was on these conditions that Montgolfier commenced his balloon of feet high and feet in diameter , made of a double envelope of cotton cloth , with a lining of paper between . 
A strength and consistency was given to the structure by means of ribbons and cords . 
The work was nearly finished when Roziers went up in his fire balloon from La Muette . 
Immediately the Comte de Laurencin pressed Montgolfier to allow him to go up in the new machine . 
Montgolfier was only too glad of the opportunity refused up to this time by the king of going up himself . 
Prince Charles also arrived and as his father had taken one hundred subscriptions , his claim to go up could not be refused . 
He suggested a number of alterations , which Montgolfier adopted at once . 
This machine was destined to suffer from endless misfortunes . 
It took fire while being inflated , and , several days afterwards , it was damaged by snow and rain . 
Put nothing discouraged Roziers and his companions . 
Places had been arranged in the gallery for six persons . 
After the balloon was at last inflated , Prince Charles and the Comes de Laurencin , Dampierre , and Laporte threw themselves into the gallery . 
They were all armed , and were determined not to quit their places to whoever might come . 
Roziers , who wished at the last to enjoy a high ascent , proposed to reduce the number to three , and to draw lots for the purpose . 
But the gentlemen would not descend . 
The four voyagers cried to cut the ropes . 
The director of the Academy , to whom application was made in this emergency , admiring the resolution and the courage of the four gentlemen , wished to satisfy them in their desire . 
Accordingly the ropes were cut but at that moment M. Montgolfier and Roziers threw themselves into the gallery . 
His boldness in jumping in was pardoned , on the ground of his services and his zeal . 
In going away the machine turned to the south west , and bent a little . 
A rope which dragged along the ground seemed to retard its ascent but some intelligent person having cut this with a hatchet , it began to right itself and ascend . 
At a certain height it turned to the north east . 
The wind was feeble , and the progress was slow , but the imposing effect was indescribable . 
The immense machine rose into the air as by some effect of magic . 
Nearly , spectators were present , and they were greatly excited at the view . 
found relief for their excitement in tears while the men , uttering cries of joy , waved their handkerchiefs , and threw their hats into the air . 
The form of the machine was that of a globe , rising from a reversed and truncated cone , to which the gallery was attached . 
The upper part was white , the lower part grey and the cone was composed of strips of stuff of different colours . 
On the sides of the balloon were two paintings , one of which represented History , the other Fame . 
The flag bore the arms of the director of the Academy , and above it were inscribed the words Le Flesselles . 
The voyagers observed that they did not consume a fourth of the quantity of combustibles after they had risen into the air , which they consumed when attached to the earth . 
They were in the gayest humour , and they calculated that the fuel they had would keep them floating till late in the evening . 
The rent was four feet in length and as the heated air escaped very rapidly by it , the balloon fell , after having sailed above the earth for barely fifteen minutes . 
The descent only occupied two or three minutes , and yet the shock was supportable . 
The voyagers were got out of the balloon without accident , and were greeted with the most enthusiastic applause . 
The curtain had risen when M. and Madame de Flesselles entered their box , accompanied by Montgolfier and Roziers . 
At sight of them the enthusiasm of the house rose to fever pitch . 
The other voyagers also entered , and were greeted with the same demonstrations . 
Cries arose from the pit to begin the opera again , in honour of the visitors . 
Roziers placed the crown that had been given to him upon Montgolfier's head . 
The demonstrations of admiration were continued after the opera was over and during the whole of the night the gentlemen of the balloon ascent were serenaded . 
We read that this balloon was feet in diameter , and that the envelope was composed of cloth , lined in the interior with fine paper . 
The balloon was not in all respects constructed like that which rose at Lyons . 
The grating which supported the fire that kept up the supply of hot air was placed at the mouth of the opening . 
It was made of copper , was six feet in diameter , and was secured by a number of transverse beams of wood . 
Andriani did not deceive himself , for , sure enough , his first attempt did not come up to expectation . 
The reasons for this failure were the too great quantity of air which the fire drew in , and the unsuitable character of the fuel used . 
On the th of February , , a second attempt was made . 
The fire was lighted under the machine , at first with dry birch wood . 
and afterwards with a bituminous composition , ingeniously concocted by one of the Brothers Gerli . 
In less than four minutes the balloon was completely inflated , and the men employed to hold it down with ropes perceived that it was on the point of rising . 
The aeronauts then gave the order to let go . 
Scarcely was the balloon let off , when it gently rose a short distance , and then flew in a horizontal direction towards a palace in the neighbourhood . 
They diminished their fire , and came gradually down , warning the multitude below of their intention by means of a speaking trumpet . 
To descend to terra firma was then a comparatively easy matter , and it was safely accomplished . 
It was just about five months after the first experiment at Annonay viz . 
, on the th of November , that the first balloon ascended in London . 
Its diameter was ten feet , and its weight eleven pounds . 
It was gilded for the double purpose of enhancing its appearance and preventing the escape of air . 
On the th of December , , a little balloon , made of gold beaters' skin , was let off publicly at Turin . 
This was an experiment similar to that which had been tried at Paris in September . 
It was natural , after the experiments made long before with electric paper kites , to employ the balloon in the investigation of the electric conditions of the atmosphere . 
The first to use it for this purpose was the Abbe Berthelon de Montpellier . 
Cavallo mentions an accident which took place in England about this time , and which served as a warning to all who had to do with balloons filled with hydrogen gas . 
A balloon thus inflated had been sent up at Hopton , near Matlock , and was found by two men near Cheadle , in Staffordshire . 
These ingenious persons carried it within doors , and having wished to fully inflate it half the gas having by this time escaped they applied a pair of bellows to its mouth . 
The men suffered severely , their hair , beards , and eyebrows being completely burnt away , and their faces severely scorched . 
At Grenoble , in Dauphine , De Baron let off a balloon on the th of January , . 
At first it was carried to the south by a strong north wind , but after it had risen to , feet above the surface , its course was changed towards the north . 
It was calculated that , in less than five minutes , this balloon rose to the height of , feet . 
It was oblong , and measured twenty five feet in height , and seventeen feet in diameter . 
To this balloon a cage , containing two guinea pigs and a rabbit , was suspended . 
The cords were cut , and the inflated globe rose to an enormous height with the greatest rapidity . 
On the rd of February , , the Marquis de Bullion sent up a paper balloon , of about fifteen feet in diameter . 
It rose at Paris , and three hours afterwards it was found near Basville , about thirty miles from the capital . 
On the th of the same month Cellard de Chastelais sent up a paper balloon . 
Heated air was supplied on this occasion by a paper roll , enclosing a sponge , and soaked in oil , spirits of wine , and grease . 
A cage , which contained a cat , was attached to this air globe . 
The cat was dead , but it was not discovered from what cause . 
The first balloon that traversed the English channel was sent off at Sandwich , in Kent , on the nd of February , . 
It was five feet in diameter , and was inflated with hydrogen gas . 
It rose rapidly , and was carried toward France by a north west wind . 
Two hours and a half after it had been let off it was found in a field about nine miles from Lille . 
The balloon carried a letter , instructing the finder of the balloon to communicate with William Boys , Esq . 
, Sandwich , and to state where and at what time it was found . 
This request was complied with . 
On the th of February a similar balloon , five feet in diameter , was sent up from Queen's College , Oxford . 
It was spherical , and was made of Persian silk , coated with varnish . 
It was the first balloon sent up from that city . 
, balloons attached to the earth by ropes , which gave forth sparks and positive electricity . 
Mention is also made of a certain M. Argand , of Geneva , who had the honour of making balloon experiments at Windsor in the presence of King George III . 
, Queen Charlotte , and the royal family . 
balloons became the fashion , and frequent instances occur of their being raised by day and night , by means of spirit lamps , to the great delight of multitudes of spectators . 
A letter from Watt to Dr . 
Lind , of Windsor , dated from Birmingham , th December , , narrates an experiment made the summer preceding with a balloon inflated Wit l hydrogen . 
The balloon was made of fine paper covered with a varnish of oil and filled two thirds with hydrogen gas , and one third common air . 
To the neck of the balloon was attached a sort of squib two feet long , the fuse of which was ignited when the balloon was inflated . 
The men who saw it from a distance , but were not present at its ascent , took it for a meteor . 
Our intention , says Watt , was , if possible , to discover whether the reverberating sound of thunder was due to echoes or to successive explosions . 
Experiments and Studies Blanchard at Paris Guyton de Morveau at Dijon . 
The most popular name in aerostation during the Revolution and the Consulate in France is , without doubt , that of Blanchard . 
This curious machine was exhibited in in the gardens of the great hotel of the Rue Taranne . 
But a little time afterwards Montgolfier's discoveries quite altered the conditions under which the aerostatic art was to be pursued . 
It had no sooner become known than it became public property . 
The idea was too simple in its grandeur , and was of too easy a kind not to call up a host of imitators . 
A certain Dupont de Chambon persisted in accompanying the voyagers . 
Pushed back by them , he drew his sword , leaped into the car or boat , wounded Blanchard , cut the rigging , and broke the oars or wings . 
The aeronaut was consequently compelled to have his machine partly re fitted in great haste , and in the course of a few hours he made the ascent alone in the usual way . 
Blanchard should have known the uselessness of oars , though he did not abandon their employment in subsequent ascents . 
The Brothers Montgolfier had dreamed of the employment of oars as a means of guidance , but had ultimately rejected the idea . 
Joseph wrote to his brother Etienne , about the end of the year For my sake , my good friend , reflect calculate well before you employ oars . 
Oars must either be great or small if great , they will be heavy if small , it will be necessary to move them with great rapidity . 
The two brothers often recurred to this idea . 
It was not with this apparatus that Blanchard effected his ascent , for we have seen that the gearing of his vessel was broken by the infuriated Dupont de Chambon . 
Yet the aeronaut pretends to have been , to some extent , assisted by his mechanical contrivances . 
I fixed up a piece of cloth , and thus made a sort of sail with which I hugged the wind . 
But the rays of the sun had so heated and rarefied the inflammable air that soon I forgot my rigging in thinking of the terrible danger that threatened me . 
His curious narrative is thus brought to a close Escaped from these impetuous and contrary winds , during which I had felt a great degree of cold , I mounted perpendicularly . 
Being hungry I ate a morsel of cake . 
Afterwards all was so calm that nothing could be seen or heard . 
The silence became appalling , and to add to my alarm I began to lose consciousness . 
I now wished to take snuff , but found I had left my box behind me . 
As I followed the course of the river , the fear that I should have to descend into it , made me agitate the oars very rapidly . 
I believe that it is to these movements that I owe my being able to cross the river transversely , and get above dry land . 
When I saw myself upon the plain of Billancourt , I recognised the bridge of Sevres , and the road to Versailles . 
I was then about as high as the towers above the plain , and I could hear the words and the cries of joy of the people who were following me below . 
At length I came to a plain about feet in extent . 
The people then assisted me and brought my vessel to anchor . 
Immediately I was surrounded by gentlemen and foot passengers who had run together from all parts . 
This voyage lasted one hour and a quarter . 
The most important incident of it was that the balloon was very nearly burst by the expansion of the hydrogen gas . 
No balloon , as we have already seen , should be entirely inflated at the beginning of a journey . 
What is most important to examine in each of the great aerial voyages that have been made , is the special character which distinguishes them from average experiments . 
All our great voyages are rendered special and particular by the ideas of the men who undertook them , and the aims which they severally meant to achieve by them . 
, were undertaken for the purpose of ascertaining certain meteorological phenomena those of Conte Coutelle applied aerostation to military uses . 
It was with this object that the experiments at Dijon took place , and these were the most serious attempts down to our times that have been made to steer balloons . 
The car was also furnished with oars . 
The report of Guyton de Morveau to the Academy at Dijon informs us that these different paraphernalia were not altogether useless . 
, when we resolved to throw over as much ballast as would enable us to rise against the wind . 
The ballast , including from to lbs . 
of provisions , was thrown over , and then we rose so rapidly that all the objects around were instantly passed and were very soon lost to view . 
The swelling form of our balloon told us that the gas inside had expanded under the heat of the sun and the lessening density of the surrounding air . 
Judging from the compass that they were not far from the town of Auxonne , they resolved to use all their endeavours to reach that place . 
The sailing appliances had been considerably damaged by the rough weather at starting . 
The adventurers , however , assert that they made them work from eight to nine minutes with the greatest ease , making use of them to tack to the south east . 
We looked to our small stock of ballast with anxiety , but there was no need of it , and we came very softly down upon a slope . 
When the aeronauts arrived at Magny les Auxonne , the inhabitants gazed upon them in terror , and two men and three women fell down on their knees before them . 
We rose rapidly and in an almost perpendicular direction . 
The fall of the mercury in the barometer was scarcely perceptible when the dilation of the hydrogen gas in the balloon had become considerable . 
The globe swelled out , and a light vapour around the mouth announced to us that the gas was commencing to escape by the safety valve . 
We assisted its escape by pulling the valve string . 
Having reduced the dilation sufficiently for our purposes , we resolved to attempt the working of the balloon before the whole town and to turn it from the east to the north . 
We saw with pleasure that our machinery answered By the working of the helm , the prow of our air boat was turned in the direction we desired . 
The oars , working only on one side , supported the helm , and altogether we got on as we wished . 
We described a curve , crossing the road from Dijon to Langres . 
The mercury had descended to inches lines , which announced that we were gradually rising . 
We attempted for some time to follow the route to I Langres , but the wind drove us off our course in spite of all our efforts . 
At nine o'clock our barometer informed us that we had ascended to the height of , feet . 
M. de Verley took advantage of this elevation to put some touch wood to a burning glass lines in diameter , and the touch wood lighted immediately . 
The aeronauts decided to direct their course for Dijon . 
After re setting the helm with this intention , they worked their oars , and proceeded in that direction more than , feet . 
The adventurers were cordially welcomed by the ecclesiastics and the magistrates of the place , and after a time they , with their balloon , were carried back on men's shoulders to Dijon . 
Experiment in Montgolfiers Roziers and Proust The Duke of Chartres The Comte d'Artois Voyage of the Abbe Carnus to Rodez . 
Roziers himself has left us a picturesque narrative of this excursion from Versailles to Compiegne . 
He says The Montgolfiere rose at first very gently in a diagonal line , presenting an imposing spectacle . 
Like a vessel which has just been precipitated from the stocks , this astonishing machine hung balanced in the air for some time , and seemed to have got beyond human control . 
After having fed my fire , I saluted the people , who answered me in the most cordial manner . 
I had time to remark some faces , in which there was a mixed expression of apprehension and joy . 
In continuing our upward progress , I perceived that an upper current of air made the Montgolfiere bend , but on increasing the heat , we rose above the current . 
The size of objects on the earth now began perceptibly to diminish , which gave us an idea of the distance at which we were from them . 
It was then that we became visible to Paris and its suburbs , and so great was our elevation that many in the capital thought we were directly over their heads . 
When we had arrived among the clouds , the earth disappeared from our view . 
Isolated and separated entirely from nature , we perceived beneath us only enormous masses of snow , which , reflecting the sunshine , filled the firmament with a glorious light . 
We remained eight minutes at this elevation , , feet above the earth . 
We had hardly left this snowy abyss , when the most pleasant scene succeeded the most dreary one . 
The broad plains appeared before our view in all their magnificence . 
No snow , no clouds were now to be seen , except around the horizon , where a few clouds seemed to rest on the earth . 
We passed in a minute from winter to spring . 
We saw the immeasurable earth covered with towns and villages , which at that distance appeared only so many isolated mansions surrounded with gardens . 
It is in such a situation that the soul rises to the loftiest height , that the thoughts are exalted and succeed each other with the greatest rapidity . 
Travelling at this elevation , our fire did not demand continual attention , and we could easily walk about the gallery . 
Having broken my fork in my exertions to raise the balloon , I went to obtain another one . 
On my way to get it , I encountered my companion , M. Proust . 
We ought never to have been on the same side of the balloon , for a capsize and the escape of all our hydrogen gas might have been the result . 
As it was , so well was the machine ballasted , that the only effect of our being on the one side made the balloon incline a little in that direction . 
When they came to Luzarche , the delighted aeronauts resolved to land . 
Already the people were testifying their pleasure at seeing them . 
Men came running together from all directions , while all the animals rushed away with equal precipitation , no doubt taking the balloon for some wild beast . 
Finding that their course would lead them straight against certain houses , the aeronauts again increased their fire , and , slightly rising , escaped the buildings that had been in their way . 
Shortly afterwards they safely landed forty miles from the spot from which they had started . 
The king had addressed letters to the Brothers Montgolfier , and the marvellous invention had become an affair of state . 
The princes of the blood and the nobles of the court considered it an honour to count among the number of their friends a celebrated aeronaut . 
The Count d'Artois , afterwards Charles X. , and the Duke de Chartres , father of Louis Philippe , made experiments in aerial navigation . 
The chemists Alban and Vallet made a magnificent balloon for the Count , who went up many times in it , with several persons of all ranks . 
The hydrogen gas balloon was oblong , sixty feet high and forty feet in diameter , and it had been constructed upon a plan supplied by Meunier . 
In order to obviate the use of the valve , he had placed inside the balloon a smaller globe , filled with ordinary air . 
At eight o'clock , the Brothers Robert Collin and Hullin and the Duke of Chartres , ascended in presence of an immense multitude . 
The nearest ranks kneeled down to allow those behind to have a view of the departure of the balloon , which disappeared among the clouds amid the acclamations of the prostrate multitude . 
The machine , obedient to the stormy and contrary winds which it met , turned several times completely round . 
Then the Duke of Chartres seized one of the flags they carried , and with the lance head pierced the balloon in two places . 
A rent of about nine feet was the consequence , and the balloon began to descend with amazing rapidity . 
They would have fallen into a lake had they not thrown over lbs . 
of ballast , which caused them to rise a little , and pass over to the shore , where they got safely to the earth . 
The expedition lasted only a few minutes . 
Our fuel and instruments were put into the gallery , my companion , M. Louchet , was at his post , and I took mine . 
To the general acclamations of the crowd succeeded a profound silence . 
Some women , and even some men , fainted away others raised their hands to heaven others shed tears all grew pale at the sight of our bright fire . 
'We have quitted the earth , said I to my companion . 
'I compliment you on the fact , he answered 'keep up the fire ! A truss of hay , steeped in spirits of wine accelerated the swiftness of our ascent . 
I cast my glance upon the town , which seemed to flee rapidly from under our feet . 
Terrestrial objects had already lost their shape and size . 
'How well I am ! I said to Louchet 'how are you ? 'As well as can be . 
At thirty two minutes past eight our elevation was at least , feet above sea level . 
A flame from our fire , rising from eighteen to twenty feet , sent us up another , feet . 
It was then that our machine was seen by every spectator within a circuit of nine miles , and it appeared to be right over the heads of all of them . 
'Send us up out of sight , said my adventurous confrere . 
I had to moderate his ardour a larger fire would have burnt our balloon . 
From our moving observatory the most splendid view developed itself . 
The boundaries of the horizon were vastly extended . 
The capital of the Rouergue appeared to be no more than a group of stones , one of which seemed to rise to the height of two or three feet . 
This was no other than the superb tower of the cathedral . 
Our own balloon , which from Rodez appeared about the size of a marble , was the only object that for us retained its natural dimensions . 
What wonderful sensations then arose within us ! I had often reflected upon the works of nature their magnificence had always filled me with admiration . 
In this soul stirring moment how beautiful did nature seem how grand ! With what majesty did it strike my imagination . 
Never did man appear to me before such an excellent being His latest triumph over the elements recalled to my mind his other conquests of nature . 
In eighteen minutes we had run a distance of , feet . 
'Make your observations while I attend to the fire , said my companion to me . 
We descended , feet , and at this height I filled another bottle with air . 
Afterwards we felt the refreshing breath of a slight breeze , which carried us gently toward the south east . 
In six minutes we had run , feet . 
Then , having only sufficient fuel to enable us to choose the place of our descent , we considered whether we should not bring our aerial voyage to a termination . 
We had neither lake nor forest to fear , and we were secure against danger from fire , as we could detach the grating at some distance from the earth . 
At fifty eight minutes past eight all our fuel was exhausted , except two bundles of straw , of four pounds each , which we reserved for our descent . 
The balloon came gradually down , and terrestrial objects began again to resume their proper forms and dimensions . 
The animals fled at the sight of our balloon , which seemed likely to crush them in its fall . 
Horsemen were obliged to dismount and lead their frightened horses . 
Terrified by such an unwonted sight , the labourers in the fields abandoned their work . 
We were not more than feet from the earth . 
We threw on the two bundles of straw , but still gradually descended . 
The grating was then detached , and I had no difficulty in leaping to the ground . 
But now a most surprising and unlooked for event happened . 
When it had touched the ground it bumped up again two or three feet . 
M. Louchet jumped out , and seized one of the ropes , but had much difficulty in holding the balloon in hand . 
He cried to the frightened peasants to come and help him . 
But they seemed to regard him as a dangerous magician , or as a monster , and they feared to touch the ropes lest they might be swallowed up by the balloon . 
Soon afterwards I came to the rescue . 
The balloon was in as thorough repair as when we began our journey . 
We then pressed out the hot air , folded up the envelope , placed it upon a small cart drawn by two oxen , and drove off with it . 
Serio Comic Aspect of the Subject The Public Duped The Abbes Miolan and Janninet at the Luxembourg Cariacatures The Minerva of Robertson , and its Voyage Round the World . 
The discovery like that of balloons could not be made public in France without being travestied , and without offering some comic side for the amusement of the wits of the day . 
While caricature was thus turning its irony upon the efforts of believers in the new idea , serious pamphlets were being written and published with the same object . 
Because honour and virtue would be in continual danger , if balloons were permitted to descend , at all hours of the night , into gardens and close to windows . 
We do not wish to gather together here the stones which critics threw against the new discovery , unaware all the time that these stones were falling upon their own heads . 
The result of these frauds was that sometimes honest men were made to suffer as rogues . 
The famous ascent of the Abbes Miolan and Janninet , at the Luxembourg , may be cited as among the failures which suffered most from the satire of the time . 
The morning had been occupied in removing the balloon from the observatory to the place of ascent , and at midday the inflation of it began . 
The rays of a burning July sun and one knows what that is in the Luxembourg in Paris streamed down on the heads of the thousands of spectators . 
But at five in the afternoon the heavy machine was still motionless inert upon the ground . 
We need not attempt to describe the scene which took place as the impatience of the multitude increased . 
Sneers of derision made themselves heard on all sides . 
They then rushed upon the balloon and fired it . 
There was then a general melee . 
Far from fleeing the fire , every one struggled to seize and carry off a bit of the balloon , to preserve as a relic . 
The two abbes escaped as they best could , under protection of a number of friends . 
After this there fell a perfect shower of lampoons and caricatures . 
Numerous songs and epigrams , of which the unfortunate abbes were the subjects , also appeared at this time . 
The letters which composed the words l'Abbe Miolan were found to form the anagram , Ballon abime the balloon swallowed up . 
The most extravagant balloon project was that of Robertson , who published a scheme for making a tour of the world . 
The following is this aeronaut's prospectus There is no limit to the sciences and the arts , which cultivation does not overstep . 
We have everything to hope and to expect from time , from chance , and from the genius of man . 
Robertson's proposed machine was to be feet in diameter , and would be capable of carrying , lbs . 
Every precaution was to be taken in order to make the great structure perfect . 
It might , perhaps , be possible , by taking the advantage of favourable winds , to make the tour of the world . 
Experience will perhaps demonstrate that aerial navigation presents less inconvenience and less dangers than the navigation of the seas . 
Such were the ideas promulgated regarding the Minerva . 
The following is the serious description given of the machine . 
The numbers correspond with those on the illustration . 
is the symbol of watchfulness it is also the highest point of the balloon . 
An observer , getting up through the interior to the point at which the watchful fowl is placed , will be able to command the best view to be had in the 'Minerva . 
The wings at the side are to be regarded as ornamental . 
The balloon will be feet in diameter , made expressly at Lyons of unbleached silk , coated within and without with indict rubber . 
This globe sustains a ship , which contains or has attached to it all the things necessary for the convenience , the observations , and even the pleasures of the voyagers . 
A small boat , in which the passengers might take refuge in case of necessity , in the event of the larger vessel falling on the sea in a disabled state . 
A large store for keeping the water , wine , and all the provisions of the expedition . 
Ladders of silk , to enable the passengers to go to all parts of the balloon . 
An observatory , containing the compasses and other scientific instruments for taking the latitude . 
A room fitted up for recreations , walking , and gymnastics . 
The kitchen , far removed from the balloon . 
It is the only place where a fire shall be permitted . 
A theatre , music room , c . 
The tents of the air marines , c . 
This balloon is certainly the most marvellous that has ever been imagined quite a town , with its forts , ramparts , cannon , boulevards , and galleries . 
One can understand the many squibs and satires which so Utopian a notion provoked . 
Chapter V. First Aerial Voyage in England Blanchard Crosses the Sea in a Balloon . 
In spite of their known powers of industry and perseverance , the English did not throw themselves with any great ardour into the exploration of the atmosphere . 
From one cause or another it is the French and the Italians that have chiefly distinguished themselves in this art . 
The English historian of aerostation gives some details of the first aerial voyage made in this country by the Italian , Vincent Lunardy . 
The balloon was made of silk covered with a varnish of oil , and painted in alternate stripes blue and red . 
It was three feet in diameter . 
Cords fixed upon it hung down and were attached to a hoop at the bottom , from which a gallery was suspended . 
This balloon had no safety valve its neck was the only opening by which the hydrogen gas was introduced , and by which it was allowed to escape . 
In September , , it was carried to the Artillery Ground and filled with gas . 
The balloon rose to the height of about twenty feet , then followed a horizontal line , and descended . 
But the gallery had no sooner touched the earth than Lunardy threw over the sand that served as ballast , and mounted triumphantly , amid the applause of a considerable multitude of spectators . 
After a time he descended upon a common , where he left the cat nearly dead with cold , ascended , and continued his voyage . 
He landed in the parish of Standon , where he was assisted by the peasants . 
He assures us again that he came down the second time by means of the oar . 
He says I took my oar to descend , and in from fifteen to twenty minutes I arrived at the earth after much fatigue , my strength being nearly exhausted . 
My chief desire was to escape a shock on reaching the earth , and fortune favoured me . 
The fear of a concussion seems to indicate that he descended more because of the weight of the balloon than by the action of the oar . 
It appears that the only scientific instrument he had was a thermometer which fell to degrees . 
The drops of water which had attached themselves to the balloon were frozen . 
The second aerial journey in England was undertaken by Blanchard and Sheldon . 
The latter , a professor of anatomy in the Royal Academy , is the first Englishman who ever went up in a balloon . 
This ascent was made from Chelsea on the th October , . 
The same balloon which Blanchard had used in France served him on this occasion , with the difference that . 
the hoop which went round the middle of it , and the parasol above the car , were dispensed with . 
At the extremity of his car he had fitted a sort of ventilator , which he was able to move about by means of a winch . 
The two aeronauts ascended , haying with them a number of scientific and musical instruments , some refreshments , ballast , c . 
Twice the ascent failed , and eventually Sheldon got out , and Blanchard went up again alone . 
Blanchard says that , on this second ascent , he was carried first north east , then east south east of Sunbury in Middlesex . 
After a time , the cold becoming excessive , Blanchard descended until he could distinguish men on the earth , and hear their shouting . 
After many vicissitudes he landed upon a plain in Hampshire , about seventy five miles from the point of departure . 
It was observed that , so long as he could be clearly seen , he executed none of the feats with his wings , ventilator , c . 
, which he had promised to exhibit . 
Enthusiasm about aerial voyages was now at its climax the most wonderful deeds were spoken of as commonplace , and the word impossible was erased from the language . 
Jeffries offered to accompany Blanchard . 
The arranged meets were made above the cliffs of Dover . 
When the balloon rose , there were only three sacks of sand of lbs . 
They had not been long above ground when the barometer sank from . 
At twenty five minutes past two o'clock they had passed three quarters of their journey , and they perceived ahead the inviting coasts of France . 
But , in consequence either of the loss or the condensation of the inflammable gas , they found themselves once more descending . 
They then threw over their provisions , the wings of the car , and other objects . 
We were obliged , says Jeffries , to throw out the only bottle we had , which fell on the water with a loud sound , and sent up spray like smoke . 
They were now near the water themselves , and certain death seemed to stare them in the face . 
It is said that at this critical moment Jeffries offered to throw himself into the sea , in order to save the life of his companion . 
We are lost , both of us , said he and if you believe that it will save you to be lightened of my weight , I am willing to sacrifice my life . 
This story has certainly the appearance of romance , and belief in it is not positively demanded . 
One desperate resource only remained they could detach the car and hang on themselves to the ropes of the balloon . 
They were preparing to carry out this idea , when they imagined they felt themselves beginning to ascend again . 
The balloon mounted once more they were only four miles from the coast of France , and their progress through the air was rapid . 
All fear was now banished . 
At three o'clock they passed over the shore half way between Cape Blanc and Calais . 
Then the balloon , rising rapidly , described a great arc , and they found themselves at a greater elevation than at any part of their course . 
The wind increased in strength , and changed a little in its direction . 
Having descended to the tops of the trees of the forest of Guines , Dr . 
Jeffries seized a branch , and by this means arrested their advance . 
The valve was then opened , the gas rushed out , and the aeronauts safely reached the ground after the successful accomplishment of this daring and memorable enterprise . 
A number of horsemen , who had watched the recent course of the balloon , now rode up , and gave the adventurers the most cordial reception . 
On the following day a splendid fete was celebrated in their honour at Calais . 
Some days afterwards Blanchard was summoned before the king , who conferred upon him an annual pension of , livres . 
The queen , who was at play at the gambling table , placed a sum for him upon a card , and presented him with the purse which she won . 
Zambeccari's Perilous Trip Across the Adriatic Sea . 
The history of Zambeccari is dramatic throughout . 
After having been taken by the Turks and thrown into the Bay of Constantinople , from which he with difficulty escaped , he devoted himself to the study and practice of aerial navigation . 
One day his balloon damaged itself against a tree at Boulogne , and the spirits of wine set his clothes on fire . 
He succeeded , however , in extinguishing the fire which surrounded him . 
Eight young men whom he had instructed , and who had promised him their assistance in filling the balloon , failed him at the critical moment . 
Still , however , he continued his labours , with the help of two companions , Andreoli and Grassetti . 
Wearied with his long continued efforts , dis appointed and hungry , he took his place in the car . 
The two companions whom we have named went with him . 
They rose gently at first , and hovered over the town of Bologna . 
Zambeccari says , The lamp , which was intended to increase our ascending force , became useless . 
We could not observe the state of the barometer by the feeble light of a lantern . 
'The same misfortune overtook my companion Grassetti . 
Andreoli was the only one who remained awake and able for duty no doubt because he had taken plenty of food and a large quantity of rum . 
Still he suffered from the cold , which was excessive , and his endeavours to wake me were for a long time vain . 
The compass had been broken , and was useless the wax light in the lantern would not burn in such a rarefied atmosphere . 
Instantly he announced to me this new and fearful danger . 
I listened , and had not long to wait before I was convinced that he was speaking the truth . 
It was necessary to have light to examine the state of the barometer , and thus ascertain what was our elevation above the sea level , and to take our measures in consequence . 
Andreoli broke five phosphoric matches , without getting a spark of fire . 
Nevertheless , we succeeded , after very great difficulty , by the help of the flint and steel , in lighting the lantern . 
It was now three o'clock in the morning we had started at midnight . 
The sound of the waves , tossing with wild uproar , became louder and louder , and I suddenly saw the surface of the sea violently agitated just below us . 
I immediately seized a large sack of sand , but had not time to throw it over before we were all in the water , gallery and all . 
As , in spite of all this , the balloon did not rise , we threw over our lamp also . 
I was ill , and vomited severely . 
Grassetti was bleeding at the nose we were both breathing short and hard , and felt oppression on the chest . 
I could not account for the reason why the moon , which was in its last quarter , appeared on a parallel line with us , and looked red as blood . 
The night was very dark , the sea rolling heavily , and we were in no condition to make observations . 
But it must have been in the middle of the Adriatic that we fell . 
Although we descended gently , the gallery was sunk , and we were often entirely covered with water . 
At daybreak we looked out and found ourselves opposite Pesaro , four miles from the shore . 
We were comforting ourselves with the prospect of a safe landing , when a wind from the land drove us with violence away over the open sea . 
It was now full day , but all we could see were the sea , the sky , and the death that threatened us . 
Certainly some boats happened to come within sight but no sooner did they see the balloon floating and striping upon the water than they made all sail to get away from it . 
No hope was then left to us but the very small one of making the coasts of Dalmatia , which were opposite , but at a great distance from us . 
The sailors threw us a stout cable , which we attached to the gallery , and by means of which they rescued us when fainting with exposure . 
The balloon thus lightened , immediately rose into the air , in spite of all the efforts of the sailors who wished to capture it . 
The long boat received a severe shock from its escape , as the rope was still attached to it , and the sailors hastened to cut themselves free . 
At once the balloon mounted with incredible rapidity , and was lost in the clouds , where it disappeared for ever from our view . 
It was eight in the morning when we got on board . 
Grassetti was so ill that he hardly showed any signs of life . 
His hands were sadly mutilated . 
Cold , hunger , and the dreadful anxiety had completely prostrated me . 
The brave captain of the vessel did everything in his power to restore us . 
He conducted us safely to Ferrara , whence we were carried to Pola , where we were received with the greatest kindness , and where I was compelled to have my fingers amputated . 
Garnerin Parachutes Aerostation at Public Fetes . 
On the nd October , , says the astronomer Lalande , at twenty eight minutes past five , Citizen Garnerin rose in a balloon from the park of Monceau . 
Silence reigned in the assembly , anxiety and fear being painted on the visages of all . 
When he had ascended upwards of , feet , he cut the cord that connected his parachute and car with the balloon . 
The latter exploded , and Garnerin descended in his parachute very rapidly . 
He made a dreadful lurch in the air , that forced a sudden cry of fear from the whole multitude , and made a number of women faint . 
Garnerin was the first to undertake this most daring and dangerous venture . 
He had conceived the idea of this feat while lying a prisoner of state in Buda , Hungary . 
Lalande adds that he went and announced his success at the Institute National , which was assembled at the time , and which listened to him with the greatest interest . 
Robertson conducted an experiment of descending by means of a parachute at Vienna , in , in which he received all the glory , without partaking of any of the danger . 
He made the public preparations for an ascent in the balloon , his pupil , Michaud , however , took his place in the car , and made the ascent . 
In this case a slight improvement was made in the parachute . 
Robertson made all the preparations , and Michaud had no more to do than place himself in the car . 
Loud applause arose on all sides . 
Michaud had ascended feet above the earth when the signal for his cutting himself clear of the balloon was given , by the firing of a cannon . 
He at once cut the two strings , and the balloon soared away into the upper regions , whilst he was left for one terrible moment to fate . 
The fall was at first rapid , but the two parachutes soon opened themselves simultaneously , and presented a majestic appearance . 
This experiment was deemed a most extraordinary one . 
Compliments were showered upon Robertson from all sides , and the court presented him with rich presents . 
An uncommon incident connected with this event serves to show us the spirit of fatalism with which the character of Napoleon I. was infected . 
Upon the river throughout its length between the Isle of St . 
Louis and the bridge of Notre Dame , an immense display of fireworks was to take place . 
The scene to be represented was the passage of Mont St . 
Garnerin was stationed with his balloon in front of the gate of the church of Notre Dame . 
At eleven o'clock in the evening , at the moment when the first discharge of fireworks made the air luminous with a hundred thousand stars , Garnerin threw off his immense balloon . 
The chief feature of it was the device of a crown , designed in coloured lanterns arranged round the globe . 
It rose splendidly , and with the most perfect success . 
On the following morning the inhabitants of Rome were astounded to behold advancing toward them from the horizon a luminous globe , which threatened to descend upon their city . 
The balloon passed the cupola of St . 
Peter's and the Vatican then descending , it touched the ground , but rose again , and finally it sank into the wafers of Lake Bracciano . 
, couronnement de l'empereur Napoleon , er par S. S. Pie VII . 
The balloon was preserved in the vaults of the Vatican in Rome , accompanied with an inscription narrating its travels and wonderful descent minus the circumstance of the tomb . 
It was removed , as might be supposed , in . 
From this time the ascents of balloons took place for the most part only on the occasions of coronations and other great public fetes . 
Green's Great Journey Across Europe . 
There is some analogy between such rude rafts , the first discovered means of navigation on water , and balloons , the first discovered means of navigation in air . 
But unquestionably the advantage is with the latter . 
One of the most remarkable excursions of this kind was that superintended by Green , in , from London to Germany . 
This journey , , miles in length , is the longest that has been yet accomplished . 
Green set out from London on the th of November , , accompanied by two friends Monk Mason , the historian of the journey , and a gentleman named Molland . 
Shortly after mid day the balloon rose with great grandeur , and , urged by a light breeze , floated to the south east , over the plains of Kent . 
At four o'clock the voyagers sighted the sea . 
It was forty eight minutes past four , says Monk Mason , that we first saw the line of waves breaking on the shores beneath us . 
It would have been impossible to have remained unmoved by the grandeur of the spectacle that spread out before us . 
Behind us were the coasts of England , with their white cliffs half lost in the coming darkness . 
Beneath us on both sides the ocean spread out far end wide to where the darkness closed in the scene . 
A few minutes afterwards we were in the midst of this cloudy barrier , surrounded with darkness , which the vapours of the night increased . 
The noise of the waves breaking on the shores of England had ceased , and our position had for some time cut us off from all the sounds of earth . 
In an hour the Straits of Dover were cleared , the lights of Calais shone out toward the voyagers , and the sound of the town drums rose up toward them . 
The whole surface of the earth for many leagues round showed nothing but scattered lights , and the face of the earth seemed to rival the vault of heaven with starry fires . 
Every moment in the earlier part of the night before men had betaken themselves to repose , clusters of lights appeared indicating large centres of population . 
Those on the horizon gave us the notion of a distant conflagration . 
It would be difficult to give an idea of what sort of effect such a scene in such circumstances produces . 
About midnight , the travellers found themselves above Liege . 
Situated in the midst of a thickly peopled country , full of foundries , smelting works , and forges , this town was quite a blaze of light . 
The gas lamps with which this town is so well lighted , clearly marked out for our travellers the main streets , the squares , and the public buildings . 
But after midnight , at which time the lamps in continental towns are mostly put out , the whole of the under world disappeared from the view of the aeronauts . 
On the other hand , by a singular contrast , the stars shone out with unusual brilliancy , and seemed like living sparks sown upon the ebony vault that surrounded us . 
In fact , nothing could exceed the intensity of the night which prevailed during this part of our voyage . 
Until three o'clock the voyagers were in this state . 
The height of the balloon , as calculated by the barometer , was , feet . 
A second explosion and a third succeeded , accompanied each time by this fearful shock to the car . 
As the day advanced these apprehensions disappeared . 
It was then half past seven in the morning . 
It was only then that the inhabitants , who had hitherto held themselves aloof , watching the movements of the strangers from under the brushwood , began to assemble from all sides . 
The town of Wiberg , where Blanchard had descended , after his ascent at Frankfort in was , by a singular chance , only two leagues distant . 
Not a few of our readers will remember the ascent of Nadar's colossal balloon from Paris , on Sunday , the th of October , . 
This balloon was remarkable as having attached to it a regular two story house for a car . 
Its ascent was witnessed by nearly half a million of persons . 
The balloon , after passing over the eastern part of France , Belgium , and Holland , suffered a disastrous descent in Hanover the day after it started on its perilous journey . 
A large section of the public laboured under the delusion that Nadar's balloon was one capable of being steered . 
In reality , however , the 'Geant' was unquestionably the most rebellious and unruly specimen of its class that has been made since the days of Montgolfier . 
The receipts from the exhibition of the Geant were intended to form the first capital of the association . 
Space forbids us to enter at length on the various stages of the idea of aerial navigation by means of an apparatus heavier than the atmosphere . 
The idea is not , however , by any means so absurd as it appears at first sight . 
M. Babinet , speaking on this subject before the French Polytechnic Association , said It is absurd to talk of guiding balloons . 
Man must seek to raise himself in the air by another mode of operation altogether , if he wish to guide himself at the same time . 
Some time ago I bought a play thing , very much in vogue at that time , called a Stropheor . 
This toy was composed of a small rotating screw propeller , which revolved on its own support when the piece of string wound round it was pulled sharply . 
The screw was rather heavy , weighing nearly a quarter of a pound , and the wings were of tin , very broad and thick . 
The ascending force of this machine is so great that I have seen one of them fly over Antwerp Cathedral , which is one of the highest edifices in the world . 
But the problem is not solved by means of this plaything , whose motive power is exterior to it . 
The principle of propulsion by means of a screw is by no means a novelty . 
It was first utilised in windmills , whose sails are nothing more nor less than an immense screw which is turned by the action of the wind on its surface . 
Marshal Niel confirms this opinion by his experience in the mountains of Algeria . 
From the foregoing remarks we may gather an idea of the importance which may be attached to aerial locomotion notwithstanding the successive failures of all those who have hitherto taken up the subject . 
We come now to the description of the memorable ascent of the 'Geant . 
The narrative is , as our readers will perceive , written in somewhat exaggerated language The 'Geant' gave an almost imperceptible shake on finding itself free , and then commenced to rise . 
The ascent was slow and gradual at first the monster seemed to be feeling its way . 
An immense shout rose with it from the assembled multitude . 
We ascended grandly , whilst the deafening clamour of two hundred thousand voices seemed to increase . 
The summits of the double row of trees which surround the Champ de Mars were already under us . 
We reached the level of the cupola of the Military School . 
The tremendous uproar still reached us . 
We glided over Paris in an easterly direction , at the height of about six hundred feet . 
A very experienced aeronaut , who numbers his ascents by hundreds , has assured me that he never knew of a single case of dizziness . 
The earth seems to unfold itself to our view like an immense and variegated map , the predominant colour of which is green in all its shades and tints . 
The irregular division of the country into fields made it resemble a patchwork counterpane . 
The size of the houses , churches , fortresses , was so considerably diminished as to make them resemble nothing so much as those playthings manufactured at Carlsruhe . 
The atmosphere was still quite clear round the 'Geant , although there was a thick haze underneath , through which we could occasionally see lights glimmering from the earth . 
There is , however , a talk about dinner , or rather supper , and night is now fast approaching . 
Every one eats with the best possible appetite . 
Hams , fowls and dessert only appear to disappear with an equal promptitude , and we quench our thirst with bordeaux and champagne . 
I remind our companions of the pigeons we brought with us , and which are hanging in a cage outside the railing . 
I knew there was no danger of their flying away , so fearlessly opened the cage . 
The three or four birds I had put in the car seemed struck with terror . 
They flew awkwardly towards the centre of our party , tumbling among the plates and dishes and under our feet . 
It was not a case of hunger with them , and I ought to have remembered that their feeding time was long since past . 
I replaced them in their cage . 
Meanwhile , the sun has left us for some time . 
Our longing gaze followed it behind the dark clouds in the horizon , whose edges it tipped with a glorious purple . 
Its last rays shone on us , and then came a bluish grey twilight . 
Suddenly we are enveloped in a dense fog . 
We look around , above us . 
Everything has disappeared in the mist . 
The balloon itself is no longer visible . 
We can see nothing except the ropes which suspend us , and these are only visible for a few feet above our heads , when they lose themselves in the fog . 
We are alone with our wickerwork house in an unfathomable vault . 
We still ascend , however , through the compact and terrible fog , which is so solid looking as to seem capable of being carved into forms with a knife . 
As we were without a moon , and had no light at all , in fact , we were unable to distinguish nicely the different shades of colour in these thick clouds . 
Now and then , when the clouds seemed to be lighter , they had a bluish tinge but the thicker ones were dirty and muddy looking . 
Dante must have seen some like these . 
Water trickled down our faces , hands , and clothes , and the ropes and sides of our car . 
We still continued to traverse these rainy regions . 
The thick fog which the balloon dislodged in forcing a passage closed immediately after it . 
At one moment I thought I felt something press against my cheek , which could only be compared to the points of a thousand needles , or to floating particles of ice . 
We were all of us too much absorbed with our situation to think of the hour or of the height to which we had attained . 
I saw the balloon , for which I had been searching in vain a few minutes before . 
It had undergone a transformation . 
It looked now as if coated with silver , and floating in a pale phosphorescent glimmer . 
All the ropes and cords seemed to be of new , bright , and liquid silver , like mercury , caused by the mist which had rested on them becoming suddenly congealed . 
Two luminous arcs intervened between us , in a sea of mother of pearl and opal , the lower one being the colour of red ochre and the upper one orange . 
Both of them , blinding in their brilliancy , seemed about to embrace one another . 
'How far are they off ? thought I to myself . 
Above and around us are nothing but thick fogs and enormous black clouds , whose ragged edges and backs are relieved by a pale silver coating . 
They undulate ceaselessly to and fro , and either usurp quietly the place of others , or disappear only to be superseded by more formidable ones . 
But the last ray of reflected light has died out , and we plunge into this chaos of dreadful forms . 
Monsters seem to wish to approach us , and to envelop us in their dark embraces . 
One of them , on my right hand , looks like a deformed human arm in a menacing attitude , writhing its jagged top like a blind serpent feeling its way . 
The vague monster has disappeared but the momentary splendour being followed by the original gloom , we plunge once more into a darkness that can be felt . 
My companions are evidently agitated , and with good reason , too for the lights which we could see a long way below us approach with terrible rapidity . 
We reached the earth rather quicker than we left it . 
Suddenly we feel a dreadful shock , followed by ominous crackings . 
The 'Geant' has made its descent . 
Its second ascent gave it this revenge . 
Our travellers committed themselves again to the mercy of the air . 
The Emperor , following the example of a former King of France , took considerable interest in the construction of this aerial monster , and wished the aeronaut Bon voyage at starting . 
The passengers endeavoured to pass the night as comfortably as possible , having first instituted a four hours' watch , as on board ship . 
The aerial vessel glided rapidly through the air . 
We repeatedly , said Nadar , passed over some manufacturing centre , whose lights were not yet extinguished . 
I either hailed them with my speaking trumpet or rang our two bells . 
It was another party of aeronauts in a smaller balloon , who left at the same time as we did , and who would persist in keeping the 'Geant' company . 
We are passing over a small town we hear the usual shouting and the report of a gun . 
It would be satisfactory , at any rate , if the name of the person could be ascertained who favoured us with this welcome . 
But it is rather late to make inquiries on this subject . 
It was between a quarter and half past nine o'clock when this occurred . 
'The sea ! cried Jules 'look at the revolving lights of the lighthouses . 
As we continue to draw nearer we get a better view of these numerous , violent , and smoking furnaces . 
Loud and ringing sounds strike on our ear at the same time . 
Not long after we distinguish a large town on our right hand , which , by its size and brilliant lighting by gas , we recognise as Brussels . 
There could be no mistake , for close by , more modest in size and appearance , we see Catholic Malines . 
We have left it behind us . 
Onward ! Onward ! Behind us the fires fade gradually away , and disappear one after anopther . 
Before us nothing at present visible . 
We seemed to drift on for about one hundred or one hundred and fifty yards more . 
We cannot distinguish a single point in front of us on which to fix our gaze . 
But we still continue our course in silence . 
This mournful darkness , this endless shroud , in which we can discover neither rent nor spangle , still continues . 
But something seems to approach us . 
By their help we discovered we were passing over the immense marshes of Holland , which extended to and lost themselves in the hazy horizon . 
On our right hand we hear a deep moan , still distant , but rapidly approaching every moment . 
It is undoubtedly the rushing of the wind . 
A fresh breeze for five minutes would bring us to the sea . 
We experienced another shock not less formidable than the first . 
The 'Geant' is trembling from its effects . 
The cable of our first anchor has just broken like a piece of thread . 
We could not hope for a better result . 
The violence of the wind which is carrying us along seems to be redoubled . 
A bump another and another then shock after shock . 
'The second dead men ! Our swift pace was shock after shock . 
The shocks continued to multiply so fast that it was impossible to count them . 
Every collision tries our muscles and strains our wrists or our shoulders and every rebound dashes us one against the other , constituting each individual a tormentor and victim at the same time . 
Our flight is so rapid that we can only distinguish an occasional glimpse of anything . 
Far , far in the distance we distinguish an isolated tree . 
We approach it like lightning , and we break it as though it were a straw . 
Two terrified horses , with manes and tails erect , endeavour to fly from us . 
But we consume distances we leave them behind immediately . 
We skip over a flock of affrighted sheep in one of our bounds . 
But now comes the real danger . 
But shall we not be crushed ourselves ? A few paces still intervene between us and our foe , and we give vent to a shout of terror . 
We energetically ducked our heads on seeing them , but fortunately we escaped any more damage than having two or three of our ropes cut . 
These we continued to drag after us like the tail of a ragged comet , having the telegraph wires and the posts which lately supported them attached to us . 
First among these is Pilatre des Roziers , with whose courage and ingenuity our readers are already familiar . 
He asked and obtained from government the sum of , livres , in order to construct his machine . 
It then became clear what sort of balloon he had contrived . 
He united in one machine the two modes previously made use of in aerostation . 
Underneath a balloon filled with hydrogen gas , he suspended a Montgolfiere , or a balloon filled with hot air from a fire . 
It is difficult to understand what was his precise object in making this combination , for his ideas seem to have been confused upon the subject . 
The fire of the Montgolfiere might , he probably supposed , be so regulated as to enable him to rise or fall at will . 
This mixed system has been justly blamed . 
There were , perhaps , other reasons for his unyielding obstinacy . 
The double balloon was alternately inflated and emptied . 
At length Roziers went to Boulogne , and announced the day of his departure but , as if by a special Providence , his attempt was delayed by unfavourable weather . 
For many weeks in succession the little trial balloons thrown up to show the course of the wind were driven back upon the shores of France . 
During all these trials the impatient Roziers continued to chafe and torment himself . 
At last , on the th and th of June , , the Aero Montgolfiere remained inflated , waiting a favourable moment for departure . 
Seven hours later Roziers , accompanied by his brother Romain , one of the constructors of the balloon , appeared in the gallery . 
A nobleman present threw a purse of louis into the car , and was preparing to follow it and join in the adventure . 
Roziers forbade him to enter , gently but firmly . 
The experiment is too unsafe , he said , for me to expose to danger the life of another . 
Finally , says a narrative of the time , the Aero Montgolfiere rose in an imposing manner . 
The sound of cannon signalised the departure , the voyagers saluted the crowd , who responded with loud shouts . 
The balloon advanced until it began to traverse the sea , and every one with eyes fixed upon the fragile machine , regarded it with fear . 
At this moment the crowd beneath perceived that the voyagers were showing signs of alarm . 
They seemed suddenly to lower the grating of the Montgolfiere . 
But it was too late . 
A violet flame appeared at the top of the balloon , then spread over the whole globe , and enveloped the Montgolfiere and the voyagers . 
The dead body of Roziers was found burnt in the gallery , many of the bones being broken . 
His brother was still breathing , but he was not able to speak , and in a few minutes he expired . 
De Maisonfort , who , against his own will , was left on the earth , was witness of this sad event . 
He has given the following explanation of it Some minutes after their departure the voyagers were assailed by contrary winds , which drove them back again upon the land . 
According to this narrative , there was no conflagration of the gas in the middle of the atmosphere , nor is it stated precisely whether the grating of the Montgolfiere was lighted . 
Maisonfort ran to the spot when the travellers fell , found them covered with the cloth of the balloon , and occupying the same positions which they had taken up on departing . 
By a sad chance , that seems like irony , they were thrown down only a few paces from the monument which marks the spot where Blanchard descended . 
At the present day Frenchmen going to England via Calais do not fail to visit at the forest of Guines the monument consecrated to the expedition of Blanchard . 
A few paces from this monument the cicerone will point out with his finger the spot where his rivals expired . 
Such was the end of the first of aeronauts , and the most courageous of men , says a contemporaneous historian . 
He died a martyr to honour and to zeal . 
His kindness , amiability , and modesty endeared him to all who knew him . 
Horrible convulsions seized her and she expired , it is said , eight days after the dreadful catastrophe . 
Roziers died at the age of twenty eight and a half years . 
Olivari perished at Orleans on the th of November , . 
He had ascended in a Montgolfiere made of paper , strengthened only by some bands of cloth . 
His car , made of osiers , and loaded with combustible matter , was suspended below the grating and when at a great elevation it became the prey of the flames . 
The aeronaut , thus deprived of his support , fell , at the distance of a league from the spot from which he had risen . 
Mosment made his last ascent at Lille on the th of April , . 
His balloon was made of silk , and was filled with hydrogen gas . 
Ten minutes after his departure he threw into the air a parachute with which he had provided himself . 
It is supposed that the oscillations consequent on the throwing off of the parachute were the cause of they aeronaut's fall . 
Some pretend that Mosment had foretold his death , and that it was caused by a willful carelessness . 
However this may be , the balloon continued its flight alone , and the body of the aeronaut was found partly buried in the sand of the fosse which surrounds the town . 
Bittorff made a great many successful ascents . 
He never used any machine but the Montgolfiere . 
Harris , an old officer of the English navy , together with another English aeronaut , named Graham , had made a great many ascents . 
He conceived the idea of constructing a balloon upon an original plan but his alterations do not seem to have been improvements . 
In May , , he attempted an ascent from London , which had much apparent success , but which terminated fatally . 
When at a great elevation , it seems , the aeronaut , wishing to descend , opened the valve . 
It had not been well constructed , and after being opened it would not close again . 
The consequent loss of gas brought the balloon down with great force . 
Harris lost his life with the fall but the young lady who had accompanied him received only a trifling wound . 
The force of the shock threw him out of his car , and he fell to the earth and died . 
His prudence and knowledge were unquestionable , and his death is to be ascribed alone to accident . 
It was an aerial shipwreck . 
Cocking had gone up twice in Mr. Green's balloon as a simple amateur . 
He took it into his head to go up a third time . 
He wished to attempt a descent in a parachute of his own construction , which he believed was vastly superior to the ordinary one . 
He altered the form altogether , though that form had been proved to be satisfactory . 
Unhappily , Green participated in this experiment . 
The two made an ascent from Vauxhall , on the th of September , , Green having suspended Cocking's wretched contrivance from the car of his balloon . 
Cocking held on by a rope , and at the height of from , to , feet the amateur , with his patent parachute , were thrown off from the balloon . 
A moment afterwards Green was soaring away safely in his machine , but Cocking was launched into eternity . 
The descent was so rapid , says one who witnessed it , that the mean rate of the fall was not less than twenty yards a second . 
In less than a minute and a half the unfortunate aeronaut was thrown to the earth , and killed by the fall . 
Madame Blanchard , thinking to improve upon Garnerin , who had decorated the balloon which ascended in celebration of the coronation of Napoleon I. with coloured lights , fixed fireworks instead to hers . 
A wire rope ten yards long was suspended to her car at the bottom of this wire rope was suspended a broad disc of wood , around which the fireworks were ranged . 
These consisted of Bengal and coloured lights . 
On the th of July , , there was a great fete at Tivoli , and a multitude had assembled around the balloon of Madame Blanchard . 
Cannon gave the signal of departure , and soon the fireworks began to show themselves . 
The balloon rose splendidly , to the sound of music and the shoutings of the people . 
A rain of gold and thousands of stars fell from the car as it ascended . 
A moment of calm succeeded , and then to the eyes of the spectators , still fixed on the balloon , an unexpected light appeared . 
This light did not come from under the balloon , where the crown of fireworks was already extinguished , but shone in the car itself . 
It was evident that the lady aeronaut , although now so high above the spectators , was busy about something . 
The light increased , then disappeared suddenly then appeared again , and showed itself finally at the summit of the balloon , in the form of an immense jet of gas . 
The gas with which the balloon was inflated had taken fire , and the terrible glare which the light threw around was perceived from the boulevards , and all the Quartier Montmartre . 
The people thought the lady was giving them an unexpected treat . 
Meantime , by the light of the flame , the balloon was seen gradually to descend . 
It disappeared when it reached the houses , like a passing meteor , or a train of fire which a blast of wind suddenly extinguishes . 
A number of workmen and other persons , who had perceived that some accident had taken place , ran in the direction in which the balloon appeared to descend . 
They arrived at a house in the Rue de Provence . 
This news spread rapidly from Tivoli , where it occasioned a stupefying surprise . 
It was the first time that a fall of the kind had taken place from the sky at Paris . 
Madame Blanchard had wished to surpass the ordinary spectacle of an aerial ascent she had really prepared a SURPRISE for the spectators . 
She had prepared and she took with her a small parachute of about two yards in diameter . 
The unhappy lady was small in stature , and very light , and unfortunately made use of a very small balloon . 
But on this day it was she who with her own hand fired this train . 
Then the brave woman , throwing away the parachute and the match , strove to close the mouth of the balloon , and to stifle the fire . 
These efforts being unavailing , Madame Blanchard was distinctly seen to sit down in her car and await her fate . 
The burning of the hydrogen lasted several minutes , during which time the balloon gradually descended . 
Had it not been that it struck on the roof of the house Madame Blanchard would have been saved . 
At the moment of the shock she was heard to cry out , A moi . 
These were her last words . 
The car , going along the roof of the house , was caught by an iron bar and overturned , and the lady was thrown head foremost upon the pavement . 
When she reached the ground she immediately expired . 
Her head and shoulders were slightly burnt , otherwise she exhibited no marks of the fire which had destroyed the balloon . 
Scientific Experiments Applications of Ballooning . 
Chapter I. Experiments of Robertson , Lhoest , Saccarof , c . 
The two aeronauts remained suspended in the air during five hours , and came down near Hanover , twenty five leagues from the spot from which they set off . 
But three years previously he had been instructed to make a balloon of an original form , which should ascend in honour of the Turkish ambassador at the garden of Tivoli . 
The fete was completely successful . 
The fete took place on the nd of July . 
Robertson presented himself at the house of Esseid Ali , to obtain his autograph . 
The Turkish ambassador willingly granted the request , and wrote his name in letters , each of which was two inches in height , on a sheet of paper . 
He then offered the aeronaut coffee and comfits , and promised to be present to witness the balloon ascent . 
His name was painted in large characters on a balloon fifteen feet in diameter , and on the form of which was the figure of a crescent . 
The experiment delighted the ambassador , and was well received by the public . 
Jacques Garnerin , when he came to make his debut as an aeronaut , made an attempt with the parachute , the following August , at the garden of the Hotel de Biron . 
Of one of Robertson's more interesting ascents he himself has left us the following sketch I rose in the balloon at nine a . 
, accompanied by my fellow student and countryman , M. Lhoest . 
The barometer marked twenty eight inches the thermometer sixteen degrees Reaumur . 
In order to quicken our ascent I discharged a parachute made of silk , and weighted in a way to prevent oscillations . 
The parachute descended at the rate of two feet per second , and its descent was uniform . 
, the barometer was at nineteen inches , and the thermometer at three above zero . 
We now felt all the inconvenience of an extremely rarefied atmosphere coming upon us , and we commenced to arrange some experiments in atmospheric electricity . 
Our first attempts did not succeed . 
We threw over part of our ballast , and mounted up till the cold and the rarefaction of the air became very troublesome . 
During our experiments we experienced an illness throughout our whole system . 
Buzzing in the cars commenced , and went on increasing . 
The pain we felt was like that which one feels when he plunges his head in water . 
Our chests seemed to be dilated , and failed in elasticity . 
My pulse was quickened , M. Lhoest's became slower he had , like me , swelled lips and bleeding eyes the veins seemed to come out more strongly on the hands . 
The blood ran to the head , and occasioned a feeling as if our hats were too tight . 
The thermometer continued to descend , and , as we ascended , our illness increased , and we could with difficulty keep awake . 
Fearing that my travelling companion might go to sleep , I attached a cord to my thigh and to his , and we held the extremities of the cord in our hands . 
Thus trammelled , we had to commence the experiments which I had proposed to make . 
I had in my car a voltaic pile , consisting of sixty couples silver and zinc . 
It worked very well on the occasion of our departure from the earth , and gave , without the condenser , one degree to the electrometer . 
At our great elevation , the pile gave only five sixths of a degree to the same electrometer . 
The galvanic flame seemed more active at this elevation than on the earth . 
I took two birds with me on coming into the balloon one of these was now dead , the other appeared stupefied . 
After having placed it upon the brink of the gondola , I tried to frighten it to make it take to flight . 
It moved its wings , but did not leave the spot then I left it to itself , and it fell perpendicularly and with great rapidity . 
Birds are certainly not able to maintain themselves at such elevations . 
The sun did not seem dazzling to us , and its heat was diminished owing to our elevation . 
At half past eleven , the balloon was no longer visible from Hamburg . 
The heavens were so pure beneath us that everything was distinctly seen by us , though very much diminished by distance . 
, the town of Hamburg seemed only a red point in our eyes the Elbe looked like a straight ribbon . 
Not being able to support our position any longer , we descended , after having used up much gas and ballast . 
Our descent caused that degree of terror among the inhabitants which the size of our balloon was calculated to inspire in a country where such machines had never before been seen . 
We descended above a poor village called Radenburg , a place amid the heaths of Hanover . 
Our appearance caused great alarm , and even the beasts of the field fled from us . 
While our balloon rapidly approached the earth , we waved our hats and flags , and shouted to the inhabitants , but our voices only increased their terror . 
The villagers rushed away with cries of terror , leaving their herds , whose bellowings increased the general alarm . 
When the balloon touched the ground , every man had shut himself up in his own house . 
Having appealed in vain , and fearing that the villagers might do us some injury , we resolved to re ascend . 
This precaution saved us a shock . 
After this ascent Robertson became acquainted with some savants of Hamburg , and amongst others with Professor Pfaff , who was interested in aerial travelling as a means of settling certain meteorological problems . 
Some days after Robertson's ascent , the professor wrote to him You speak of a certain height at which the hydrogen gas will find itself in equilibrium in the air of the atmosphere . 
I went up with my friend Lhoest , says Robertson , at forty two minutes past twelve midday . 
In a minute or two we rose up between two masses of cloud , which seemed to open up and offer us a passage . 
The upper surfaces of these clouds are not uniformly level , like the under sides seen from the earth , but they are of a conical or pyramidal shape . 
The barometer was at fifteen inches , and the thermometer one degree below zero , when I let off two pigeons . 
One descended in a diagonal direction , its wings half open but not moving , with a swiftness which seemed that of a fall . 
The other flew for an instant , and then placed itself upon the car , and did not wish to quit us . 
Acting on the hint of Dr . 
The wind continuing to carry me towards the sea , I resolved to bring my observations to an end . 
I effected my descent in a meadow , near the village of Rehorst , in Holstein , after having run sixteen leagues from France in sixty five minutes . 
This proposition was made at a favourable time , and was , so far , carried out in the best possible way . 
The aeronauts who were appointed to carry out the expedition were Biot and Gay Lussac , the most enthusiastic aeronauts of the period . 
The following is their report We observed the animals we had with us at all the different heights , and they did not appear to suffer in any manner . 
For ourselves , we perceived no effect any more then a quickening of the pulse . 
At , feet above the ground we set a little green finch at liberty . 
We followed him with our eyes till he was lost in the clouds . 
A pigeon , which we set free at the same elevation , presented a very curious spectacle . 
Afterwards he began his descent regularly , sweeping round and round in great circles , ever reaching lower , until he also was lost in the clouds . 
As to the voyagers themselves , this is how they speak of their situation at the height of , yards About this elevation we observed our animals . 
They did not appear to suffer from the rarity of the air , yet the barometer was at twenty inches eight lines . 
We were much surprised that we did not suffer from the cold on the contrary , the sun warmed us much . 
We had thrown aside the gloves which had been put on board , and which were of no use to us . 
Our pulses were very quick that of M. Gay Lussac , which is in the minute on ordinary occasions , now gave and mine , which is ordinarily , gave . 
This acceleration was felt by both of us in nearly the same proportion . 
Nevertheless , our respiration was in no way interfered with , we experienced no illness , and our situation seemed to us extremely agreeable . 
In both cases the symptoms are nearly the same pain , general illness , buzzing in the ears , and even haemorrhage . 
The experience of the diving bell has long made us familiar with what aeronauts suffer . 
, and his companion , have experienced these effects in great intensity . 
This distension of the blood vessels would necessarily produce an inconvenience and a difficulty in the muscular action . 
Ascent of M. Gay Lussac Alone Excursions of MM . 
Respecting this ascent , Arago states that M. Gay Lussac has reduced to their proper value the narratives of the physical pains which aeronauts say they suffer in lofty aerial ascents . 
All the preparations having been made in the garden of the Observatory at Paris , the ascent took place on the th of June , , at . 
, the balloon being filled with hydrogen gas . 
The first ascent was a signal failure . 
It was found that the weather being bad , the envelope of the balloon was torn in several places , and had to be mended in all haste . 
Immediately preceding the moment of ascent , a torrent of rain fell . 
But the voyagers were determined to ascend . 
They placed themselves in the car , and , when thrown off from the fastenings , they rose through the air with the speed of an arrow . 
The height to which the balloon reached made it suddenly dilate , and the network , which was much too small , was stretched to the utmost . 
They had risen to the height of over , feet , and they had descended from this height in from four to five minutes . 
For all practical purposes , the ascent was a failure , and the aeronauts immediately commenced preparations for a new voyage , which took place a month afterwards . 
They rose to very great altitudes , but experienced no illness from the rarefied air . 
M. Bixio did not feel the sharp pains in the ears from which he had suffered on the former occasion . 
When they had reached their greatest height , there seemed to open up in the midst of the vaporous mass a brilliant space , from which they could see the blue of heaven . 
The polariscope , directed towards this region , showed an internal polarisation , but , when pointed to the side where the mist still prevailed , there was no polarisation . 
An optical phenomenon of a remarkable kind was witnessed when the voyagers had attained their highest point . 
It is natural to suppose that the second sun was formed by the reflection of the sun's rays upon the horizontal faces of the ice crystals floating in this high cloud . 
Welsh , Glaisher and Coxwell . 
In July , , the Committee of the Kew Observatory resolved to undertake a number of balloon voyages . 
This resolution was approved of by the British Association for the Advancement of Science , and the necessary instruments for making a number of meteorological observations were prepared . 
The balloon employed was that of Mr. Green , who was accompanied in his ascents by Mr. Welsh . 
The greatest height to which Mr. Welsh rose was on the fourth ascent which took place on the th of November , . 
The balloon rose , feet , and the lowest temperature observed was degrees below zero . 
It is to Mr. Glaisher and Mr. Coxwell , however , that the highest honours of scientific aerostation belong . 
The ascents made by these gentlemen Mr. Glaisher being the scientific observer , and Mr. Coxwell the practical aeronaut have become matters of history . 
Mr. Glaisher has given an admirable account of this ascent , which took place from Wolverhampton . 
He says Our ascent had been delayed , owing to the unfavourable state of the weather . 
It commenced at three minutes past one p . 
, the temperature of the air being degrees , and the dew point degrees . 
At the height of one mile the temperature was degrees and the dew point degrees . 
Shortly after wards clouds were entered of about , feet in thickness . 
The height of two miles was reached at twenty one minutes past one . 
The temperature of the air had fallen to degrees and the dew point to degrees . 
The third mile was passed at twenty eight minutes past one , with an air temperature of degrees , and a dew point of degrees . 
Up to this time I had experienced no particular inconvenience . 
When at the height of , feet I could not see the fine column of the mercury in the tube then the fine divisions on the scale of the instrument became invisible . 
At that time I asked Mr. Coxwell to help me to read the instruments , as I experienced a difficulty in seeing them . 
At that time I had no suspicion of other than temporary inconvenience in seeing . 
Shortly afterwards I laid my arm upon the table , possessed of its full vigour but directly after , being desirous of using it , I found it powerless . 
It must have lost its power momentarily . 
I then tried to move the other arm , but found it powerless also . 
I next tried to shake myself , and succeeded in shaking my body . 
I seemed to have no legs . 
I could only shake my body . 
I then looked at the barometer , and whilst I was doing so my head fell on my left shoulder . 
I struggled , and shook my body again , but could not move my arms . 
In that position my eyes were directed towards Mr. Coxwell in the ring . 
When I shook my body I seemed to have full power over the muscles of the back , and considerable power over those of the neck , but none over my limbs . 
As in the case of the arms , all muscular power was lost in an instant from my back and neck . 
I was still conscious , with as active a brain as whilst writing this . 
I thought I had been seized with asphyxia , and that I should experience no more , as death would come unless we speedily descended . 
Other thoughts were actively entering my mind when I suddenly became unconscious , as though going to sleep . 
My last observation was made at , feet , about fifty four minutes past one . 
I then heard him speak more emphatically , but I could not speak or move . 
Then I heard him say , 'Do try now do ! Then I saw the instruments dimly , next Mr. Coxwell , and very shortly I saw clearly . 
I rose in my seat and looked round , as though waking from sleep , and said to Mr. Coxwell , 'I have been insensible . 
He said , 'Yes and I too , very nearly . 
I then drew up my legs , which had been extended out before me , and took a pencil in my hand to note my observations . 
Mr. Coxwell informed me that he had lost the use of his hands , which were black , and I poured brandy over them . 
I resumed my observations at seven minutes past two . 
I suppose three or four minutes were occupied from the time of my hearing the words 'temperature' and 'observation , until I began to observe . 
If so , then returning consciousness came at four minutes past two , and that gives about seven minutes of total insensibility . 
That my countenance was serene and placid , without earnestness or anxiety , he had noticed before going into the ring . 
It then struck him that I was insensible . 
He wished then to approach me , but could not , and he felt insensibility coming over himself . 
No inconvenience followed our insensibility . 
When we dropped it was in a country where no accommodation of any kind could be obtained , so that we had to walk between seven and eight miles . 
Again , a very delicate minimum thermometer was found to read minus degrees , and that reading would indicate an elevation exceeding , feet . 
There cannot be any doubt that the balloon attained the great height of seven miles the greatest ever reached . 
In this ascent six pigeons were taken up . 
One was thrown out at three miles . 
It extended its wings , and dropped like a piece of paper . 
A second at four miles , and it flew with vigour . 
A third between four and five miles , and it fell downwards . 
A fourth was thrown out at four miles in descending , and it alighted on the top of the balloon . 
Two were brought to the ground . 
One was dead , and the other was ill , but recovered so as to fly away in a quarter of an hour . 
The results gathered by Mr. Glaisher from his numerous ascents are very interesting . 
He found that in no instance did the temperature of the air decrease uniformly with the increase of height . 
In fact , the decrease in the first mile is double that in the second , and nearly four times as great as the change of temperature in the fifth mile . 
The distribution of aqueous vapour in the air is no less remarkable . 
In the propagation of sound , M. Glaisher made many curious experiments . 
Balloons Made Useful in Warfare . 
Wars of the French Republic Company of Ballooneers Battle of Fleurus The Balloons of Egypt Napoleon Modern Services War in Italy War in America Conclusion . 
We will conclude our work with a glance at aerostation as applied to warfare . 
Scarcely had the first ascents astonished the world , than the more adventurous spirits began to use the new discovery for a thousand purposes directly useful to man . 
In , the idea was practically carried out , and the French armies were provided with two companies of aeronauts . 
The command of one of these companies was given to Captain Coutelle , a young physicist of great talent , who rendered memorable services at the battle of Fleurus . 
The balloons were not thrown free , but were retained attached by means of long cords . 
In this way they took up , so to speak , aerial posts of observation . 
Placed in his car , the captain transmitted his instructions to his men below by means of coloured flags . 
Coutelle has left us a lively narrative of certain incidents connected with one of the grand days of the old Republic . 
He had been commissioned by the Committee of Public Safety to go to Maubeuge , where Jourdan's army was encamped , and to offer him the use of his balloon . 
The genuineness of the order from the Committee , however , was proved , and Coutelle's case was listened to . 
The army was at Beaumont , says Coutelle , and the enemy , placed at a distance of only three miles , could attack at any moment . 
The general told me this fact , and engaged me to return and communicate it to the Committee . 
Many of the members of the Commission came to witness the first ascent of a balloon held in hand , like a kite , by means of two cords . 
The Commissioners ordered me to place myself in the car , and instructed me as to a number of signals which I must repeat , and observations which I must make . 
On returning to the earth , I received the compliments of the Commission . 
Arrived at Maubeuge , my first care was to find a suitable spot to erect my furnace , and to make every preparation for the arrival of my balloon from Meudon . 
Each day my observations contained something new either in the works which the Austrians had thrown up during the night , or in the arrangement of their forces . 
On the fifth day a piece of cannon had been brought to bear upon the balloon , and shots were fired at me as soon as I appeared above the ramparts . 
None of the shots took effect , and on the following day the piece was no longer in position . 
Experience enforced upon me the necessity of forming some provision against these unexpected attacks . 
I employed the night in fixing cords all round the middle of my balloon . 
I was afterwards ordered to make a reconnaissance at Mayence , and I posted myself between our lines and the enemy at half range of cannon . 
Generally the soldiers of the enemy , all who saw the observer watching them and taking notes , came to the idea that they could do nothing without being seen . 
Our soldiers were of the same opinion , and consequently they regarded us with great admiration and trust . 
On the heavy marches they brought us prepared food and wine , which my men were hardly able to get for themselves , so closely did they require to attend to the ropes . 
We were encamped upon the banks of the Rhine at Manheim when our general sent me to the opposite bank to parley . 
As soon as the Austrian officers were made aware that I commanded the balloon , I was overwhelmed with questions and compliments . 
What causes an impression which , till one is accustomed to it , is very alarming , is the noise which the balloon makes when it is struck by successive gales of wind . 
The silk of the balloon would often burst in a case of this kind , were it not for the restraining power of the network . 
After the days of Coutelle we do not read that balloons were made much use of in warfare . 
The only ascent in the Egypt campaign was that of a tricolor balloon thrown up to commemorate a fete . 
Noble successor of Alexander , honour to shine invincible arms , and to the unexpected lightning with which your warriors are furnished . 
Do you believe that that lightning is the work of the children of men ? Allah has placed it in our hands by means of the genius of war . 
We recognised by your arms that it is Allah that has sent you the Delta and all the neighbouring countries are full of thy miracles . 
But would you be a conqueror if Allah did not permit you ? Bonaparte . 
Napoleon did not favour the use of balloons in war . 
Perhaps it was because he himself had such a splendid genius for war that he depended alone upon himself , and scorned assistance . 
But however this may be , on his return from Egypt he sold the balloon of Fleurus to Robertson . 
The company of ballooneers was dissolved , and the balloons themselves disappeared in smoke . 
During the war in America , the role which the balloon played was a more important one . 
The first telegraphic message which was transmitted from the aerial regions is that of Professor Love , at Washington , to the President of the United States . 
The following is this despatch WASHINGTON , Balloon the 'Enterprise . 
SIR , The point of observation commands an extent of nearly fifty miles in diameter . 
The city , with its girdle of encampments , presents a superb scene . 
furnished important information to General M'Clellan . 
The balloon of La Mountain , which arose from the northern camp upon the Potomac , passed above Washington . 
There he was able to observe perfectly their position and their movements . 
He then threw over ballast , and ascended to the height of three miles . 
At this height he encountered a current which carried him in the direction of Maryland , where he descended in safety . 
General M'Clellan was so much satisfied with the observations taken in the balloon , that , at his request , the order was given to the War Department to construct four new balloons . 
We shall only say here that aerial navigation should be divided into two kinds with balloons , and without balloons . 
In the first case , it is limited to the study of aerial currents , and to the art of rising to those currents which suit the direction of the voyage undertaken . 
The balloon is not the master of the atmosphere on the contrary , it is its powerless slave . 
Birds are , without doubt , the best models to study . 
But with what force shall we replace LIFE ? The air boat of M. Pline seems to us one of the best ideas but the working of it presents many difficulties . 
, and we will have definitively conquered the empire of the air . 
