Wuthering Heights by Emily Bronte Scanned and proofed by David Price , email ccx coventry . 
uk Wuthering Heights CHAPTER I . 
I have just returned from a visit to my landlord the solitary neighbour that I shall be troubled with . 
This is certainly a beautiful country ! In all England , I do not believe that I could have fixed on a situation so completely removed from the stir of society . 
A perfect misanthropist's heaven and Mr. Heathcliff and I are such a suitable pair to divide the desolation between us . 
A nod was the answer . 
Lockwood , your new tenant , sir . 
'Here we have the whole establishment of domestics , I suppose , was the reflection suggested by this compound order . 
'No wonder the grass grows up between the flags , and cattle are the only hedge cutters . 
Joseph was an elderly , nay , an old man very old , perhaps , though hale and sinewy . 
Wuthering Heights is the name of Mr. Heathcliff's dwelling . 
'Wuthering' being a significant provincial adjective , descriptive of the atmospheric tumult to which its station is exposed in stormy weather . 
Happily , the architect had foresight to build it strong the narrow windows are deeply set in the wall , and the corners defended with large jutting stones . 
One stop brought us into the family sitting room , without any introductory lobby or passage they call it here 'the house' pre eminently . 
Above the chimney were sundry villainous old guns , and a couple of horse pistols and , by way of ornament , three gaudily painted canisters disposed along its ledge . 
The floor was of smooth , white stone the chairs , high backed , primitive structures , painted green one or two heavy black ones lurking in the shade . 
In an arch under the dresser reposed a huge , liver coloured bitch pointer , surrounded by a swarm of squealing puppies and other dogs haunted other recesses . 
But Mr. Heathcliff forms a singular contrast to his abode and style of living . 
He'll love and hate equally under cover , and esteem it a species of impertinence to be loved or hated again . 
No , I'm running on too fast I bestow my own attributes over liberally on him . 
Mr. Heathcliff may have entirely dissimilar reasons for keeping his hand out of the way when he meets a would be acquaintance , to those which actuate me . 
Let me hope my constitution is almost peculiar my dear mother used to say I should never have a comfortable home and only last summer I proved myself perfectly unworthy of one . 
By this curious turn of disposition I have gained the reputation of deliberate heartlessness how undeserved , I alone can appreciate . 
My caress provoked a long , guttural gnarl . 
'You'd better let the dog alone , growled Mr. Heathcliff in unison , checking fiercer demonstrations with a punch of his foot . 
'She's not accustomed to be spoiled not kept for a pet . 
I flung her back , and hastened to interpose the table between us . 
This proceeding aroused the whole hive half a dozen four footed fiends , of various sizes and ages , issued from hidden dens to the common centre . 
'What the devil is the matter ? he asked , eyeing me in a manner that I could ill endure , after this inhospitable treatment . 
'What the devil , indeed ! I muttered . 
'The herd of possessed swine could have had no worse spirits in them than those animals of yours , sir . 
'The dogs do right to be vigilant . 
Take a glass of wine ? 'No , thank you . 
'Not bitten , are you ? 'If I had been , I would have set my signet on the biter . 
Heathcliff's countenance relaxed into a grin . 
'Come , come , he said , 'you are flurried , Mr. Lockwood . 
Here , take a little wine . 
Guests are so exceedingly rare in this house that I and my dogs , I am willing to own , hardly know how to receive them . 
I found him very intelligent on the topics we touched and before I went home , I was encouraged so far as to volunteer another visit to morrow . 
He evidently wished no repetition of my intrusion . 
I shall go , notwithstanding . 
It is astonishing how sociable I feel myself compared with him . 
CHAPTER II YESTERDAY afternoon set in misty and cold . 
I had half a mind to spend it by my study fire , instead of wading through heath and mud to Wuthering Heights . 
On that bleak hill top the earth was hard with a black frost , and the air made me shiver through every limb . 
'Wretched inmates ! I ejaculated , mentally , 'you deserve perpetual isolation from your species for your churlish inhospitality . 
At least , I would not keep my doors barred in the day time . 
I don't care I will get in ! So resolved , I grasped the latch and shook it vehemently . 
Vinegar faced Joseph projected his head from a round window of the barn . 
'What are ye for ? he shouted . 
'T' maister's down i' t' fowld . 
Go round by th' end o' t' laith , if ye went to spake to him . 
'Is there nobody inside to open the door ? I hallooed , responsively . 
'There's nobbut t' missis and shoo'll not oppen 't an ye mak' yer flaysome dins till neeght . 
'Why ? Cannot you tell her whom I am , eh , Joseph ? 'Nor ne me ! I'll hae no hend wi't , muttered the head , vanishing . 
The snow began to drive thickly . 
I seized the handle to essay another trial when a young man without coat , and shouldering a pitchfork , appeared in the yard behind . 
I bowed and waited , thinking she would bid me take a seat . 
She looked at me , leaning back in her chair , and remained motionless and mute . 
'Rough weather ! I remarked . 
'I'm afraid , Mrs. Heathcliff , the door must bear the consequence of your servants' leisure attendance I had hard work to make them hear me . 
She never opened her mouth . 
I stared she stared also at any rate , she kept her eyes on me in a cool , regardless manner , exceedingly embarrassing and disagreeable . 
'Sit down , said the young man , gruffly . 
'A beautiful animal ! I commenced again . 
'Do you intend parting with the little ones , madam ? 'They are not mine , said the amiable hostess , more repellingly than Heathcliff himself could have replied . 
'Ah , your favourites are among these ? I continued , turning to an obscure cushion full of something like cats . 
'A strange choice of favourites ! she observed scornfully . 
Unluckily , it was a heap of dead rabbits . 
I hemmed once more , and drew closer to the hearth , repeating my comment on the wildness of the evening . 
'You should not have come out , she said , rising and reaching from the chimney piece two of the painted canisters . 
Her position before was sheltered from the light now , I had a distinct view of her whole figure and countenance . 
'I don't want your help , she snapped 'I can get them for myself . 
'I beg your pardon ! I hastened to reply . 
'Were you asked to tea ? she demanded , tying an apron over her neat black frock , and standing with a spoonful of the leaf poised over the pot . 
'I shall be glad to have a cup , I answered . 
'Were you asked ? she repeated . 
'No , I said , half smiling . 
'You are the proper person to ask me . 
'Half an hour ? he said , shaking the white flakes from his clothes 'I wonder you should select the thick of a snow storm to ramble about in . 
'Perhaps I can get a guide among your lads , and he might stay at the Grange till morning could you spare me one ? 'No , I could not . 
'Oh , indeed ! Well , then , I must trust to my own sagacity . 
'Umph ! 'Are you going to mak' the tea ? demanded he of the shabby coat , shifting his ferocious gaze from me to the young lady . 
'Is HE to have any ? she asked , appealing to Heathcliff . 
'Get it ready , will you ? was the answer , uttered so savagely that I started . 
The tone in which the words were said revealed a genuine bad nature . 
I no longer felt inclined to call Heathcliff a capital fellow . 
When the preparations were finished , he invited me with 'Now , sir , bring forward your chair . 
And we all , including the rustic youth , drew round the table an austere silence prevailing while we discussed our meal . 
I thought , if I had caused the cloud , it was my duty to make an effort to dispel it . 
They could not every day sit so grim and taciturn and it was impossible , however ill tempered they might be , that the universal scowl they wore was their every day countenance . 
'Where is she my amiable lady ? 'Mrs . 
Heathcliff , your wife , I mean . 
'Well , yes oh , you would intimate that her spirit has taken the post of ministering angel , and guards the fortunes of Wuthering Heights , even when her body is gone . 
Is that it ? Perceiving myself in a blunder , I attempted to correct it . 
I might have seen there was too great a disparity between the ages of the parties to make it likely that they were man and wife . 
The other did not look seventeen . 
The last reflection may seem conceited it was not . 
My neighbour struck me as bordering on repulsive I knew , through experience , that I was tolerably attractive . 
Heathcliff is my daughter in law , said Heathcliff , corroborating my surmise . 
'Ah , certainly I see now you are the favoured possessor of the beneficent fairy , I remarked , turning to my neighbour . 
This was worse than before the youth grew crimson , and clenched his fist , with every appearance of a meditated assault . 
But he seemed to recollect himself presently , and smothered the storm in a brutal curse , muttered on my behalf which , however , I took care not to notice . 
'Unhappy in your conjectures , sir , observed my host 'we neither of us have the privilege of owning your good fairy her mate is dead . 
I said she was my daughter in law therefore , she must have married my son . 
'And this young man is 'Not my son , assuredly . 
Heathcliff smiled again , as if it were rather too bold a jest to attribute the paternity of that bear to him . 
He fixed his eye on me longer than I cared to return the stare , for fear I might be tempted either to box his ears or render my hilarity audible . 
I began to feel unmistakably out of place in that pleasant family circle . 
The dismal spiritual atmosphere overcame , and more than neutralised , the glowing physical comforts round me and I resolved to be cautious how I ventured under those rafters a third time . 
The business of eating being concluded , and no one uttering a word of sociable conversation , I approached a window to examine the weather . 
A sorrowful sight I saw dark night coming down prematurely , and sky and hills mingled in one bitter whirl of wind and suffocating snow . 
'I don't think it possible for me to get home now without a guide , I could not help exclaiming . 
'The roads will be buried already and , if they were bare , I could scarcely distinguish a foot in advance . 
'Hareton , drive those dozen sheep into the barn porch . 
They'll be covered if left in the fold all night and put a plank before them , said Heathcliff . 
'How must I do ? I continued , with rising irritation . 
Mrs. Heathcliff , however , checked me by her answer . 
'You scandalous old hypocrite ! she replied . 
I thought her conduct must be prompted by a species of dreary fun and , now that we were alone , I endeavoured to interest her in my distress . 
Heathcliff , I said earnestly , 'you must excuse me for troubling you . 
I presume , because , with that face , I'm sure you cannot help being good hearted . 
'It is brief advice , but as sound as I can give . 
They wouldn't let me go to the end of the garden wall . 
'YOU ! I should be sorry to ask you to cross the threshold , for my convenience , on such a night , I cried . 
'I want you to tell me my way , not to SHOW it or else to persuade Mr. Heathcliff to give me a guide . 
'Who ? There is himself , Earnshaw , Zillah , Joseph and I. Which would you have ? 'Are there no boys at the farm ? 'No those are all . 
'Then , it follows that I am compelled to stay . 
'That you may settle with your host . 
I have nothing to do with it . 
'I hope it will be a lesson to you to make no more rash journeys on these hills , cried Heathcliff's stern voice from the kitchen entrance . 
'As to staying here , I don't keep accommodations for visitors you must share a bed with Hareton or Joseph , if you do . 
'I can sleep on a chair in this room , I replied . 
With this insult my patience was at an end . 
I uttered an expression of disgust , and pushed past him into the yard , running against Earnshaw in my haste . 
It was so dark that I could not see the means of exit and , as I wandered round , I heard another specimen of their civil behaviour amongst each other . 
At first the young man appeared about to befriend me . 
'I'll go with him as far as the park , he said . 
'You'll go with him to hell ! exclaimed his master , or whatever relation he bore . 
'Not at your command ! retorted Hareton . 
'If you set store on him , you'd better be quiet . 
'Then I hope his ghost will haunt you and I hope Mr. Heathcliff will never get another tenant till the Grange is a ruin , she answered , sharply . 
'Hearken , hearken , shoo's cursing on 'em ! muttered Joseph , towards whom I had been steering . 
'Maister , maister , he's staling t' lanthern ! shouted the ancient , pursuing my retreat . 
The vehemence of my agitation brought on a copious bleeding at the nose , and still Heathcliff laughed , and still I scolded . 
I don't know what would have concluded the scene , had there not been one person at hand rather more rational than myself , and more benevolent than my entertainer . 
This was Zillah , the stout housewife who at length issued forth to inquire into the nature of the uproar . 
She thought that some of them had been laying violent hands on me and , not daring to attack her master , she turned her vocal artillery against the younger scoundrel . 
Come in , and I'll cure that there now , hold ye still . 
With these words she suddenly splashed a pint of icy water down my neck , and pulled me into the kitchen . 
Mr. Heathcliff followed , his accidental merriment expiring quickly in his habitual moroseness . 
I was sick exceedingly , and dizzy , and faint and thus compelled perforce to accept lodgings under his roof . 
She did not know , she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on , she could not begin to be curious . 
Too stupefied to be curious myself , I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed . 
The whole furniture consisted of a chair , a clothes press , and a large oak case , with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows . 
In fact , it formed a little closet , and the ledge of a window , which it enclosed , served as a table . 
I slid back the panelled sides , got in with my light , pulled them together again , and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff , and every one else . 
The ledge , where I placed my candle , had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint . 
I snuffed it off , and , very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea , sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee . 
I shut it , and took up another and another , till I had examined all . 
Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary , scrawled in an unformed , childish hand . 
I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Joseph , rudely , yet powerfully sketched . 
An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine , and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics . 
'An awful Sunday , commenced the paragraph beneath . 
'I wish my father were back again . 
Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrocious H. and I are going to rebel we took our initiatory step this evening . 
You forget you have a master here , says the tyrant . 
I'll demolish the first who puts me out of temper ! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence . 
Oh , boy ! was that you ? Frances darling , pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers . 
We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser . 
I had just fastened our pinafores together , and hung them up for a curtain , when in comes Joseph , on an errand from the stables . 
I could not bear the employment . 
I took my dingy volume by the scroop , and hurled it into the dog kennel , vowing I hated a good book . 
Heathcliff kicked his to the same place . 
Then there was a hubbub ! Maister Hindley ! shouted our chaplain . 
I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project , for the next sentence took up another subject she waxed lachrymose . 
'How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so ! she wrote . 
'My head aches , till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I can't give over . 
for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print . 
I saw a red ornamented title 'Seventy Times Seven , and the First of the Seventy First . 
A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabez Branderham , in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough . 
And while I was , half consciously , worrying my brain to guess what Jabez Branderham would make of his subject , I sank back in bed , and fell asleep . 
I began to dream , almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality . 
I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home , with Joseph for a guide . 
For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence . 
Then a new idea flashed across me . 
We came to the chapel . 
He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase , and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion . 
They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously . 
Oh , how weary I grow . 
I was condemned to hear all out finally , he reached the 'FIRST OF THE SEVENTY FIRST . 
At that crisis , a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabez Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon . 
'Sir , I exclaimed , 'sitting here within these four walls , at one stretch , I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse . 
Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to depart Seventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat . 
The four hundred and ninety first is too much . 
Brethren , execute upon him the judgment written . 
In the confluence of the multitude , several clubs crossed blows , aimed at me , fell on other sconces . 
The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake , but forgotten . 
'I'm come home I'd lost my way on the moor ! As it spoke , I discerned , obscurely , a child's face looking through the window . 
'How can I ! I said at length . 
I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet , the instant I listened again , there was the doleful cry moaning on ! 'Begone ! I shouted . 
'I'll never let you in , not if you beg for twenty years . 
'It is twenty years , mourned the voice 'twenty years . 
I've been a waif for twenty years ! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside , and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward . 
I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud , in a frenzy of fright . 
I sat shuddering yet , and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate , and muttered to himself . 
With this intention , I turned and opened the panels . 
I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced . 
Heathcliff stood near the entrance , in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers , and his face as white as the wall behind him . 
'It is only your guest , sir , I called out , desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further . 
'I had the misfortune to scream in my sleep , owing to a frightful nightmare . 
I'm sorry I disturbed you . 
'And who showed you up into this room ? he continued , crushing his nails into his palms , and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions . 
'I should not care if you did , Mr. Heathcliff she richly deserves it . 
I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted , at my expense . 
Well , it is swarming with ghosts and goblins ! You have reason in shutting it up , I assure you . 
'I'm not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again . 
A monotonous occupation , calculated to set me asleep , like counting , or 'What CAN you mean by talking in this way to ME ! thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence . 
'How how DARE you , under my roof ? God ! he's mad to speak so ! And he struck his forehead with rage . 
Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed , as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it . 
I guessed , however , by his irregular and intercepted breathing , that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion . 
'And for me , too , I replied . 
'I'll walk in the yard till daylight , and then I'll be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion . 
I'm now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society , be it country or town . 
A sensible man ought to find sufficient company in himself . 
'Delightful company ! muttered Heathcliff . 
'Take the candle , and go where you please . 
I shall join you directly . 
Keep out of the yard , though , the dogs are unchained and the house Juno mounts sentinel there , and nay , you can only ramble about the steps and passages . 
He got on to the bed , and wrenched open the lattice , bursting , as he pulled at it , into an uncontrollable passion of tears . 
'Come in ! come in ! he sobbed . 
I descended cautiously to the lower regions , and landed in the back kitchen , where a gleam of fire , raked compactly together , enabled me to rekindle my candle . 
Nothing was stirring except a brindled , grey cat , which crept from the ashes , and saluted me with a querulous mew . 
Two benches , shaped in sections of a circle , nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself , and Grimalkin mounted the other . 
My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips , folded his arms , and puffed away . 
I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath , and heaving a profound sigh , he got up , and departed as solemnly as he came . 
He glanced over the back of the bench , dilating his nostrils , and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat . 
I guessed , by his preparations , that egress was allowed , and , leaving my hard couch , made a movement to follow him . 
I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also . 
My landlord halloed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden , and offered to accompany me across the moor . 
We exchanged little conversation , and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park , saying , I could make no error there . 
Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow , and then I pushed forward , trusting to my own resources for the porter's lodge is untenanted as yet . 
She was not a gossip , I feared unless about her own affairs , and those could hardly interest me . 
'Oh , I'll turn the talk on my landlord's family ! I thought to myself . 
With this intention I asked Mrs. Dean why Heathcliff let Thrushcross Grange , and preferred living in a situation and residence so much inferior . 
'Is he not rich enough to keep the estate in good order ? I inquired . 
'Rich , sir ! she returned . 
'He has nobody knows what money , and every year it increases . 
It is strange people should be so greedy , when they are alone in the world ! 'He had a son , it seems ? 'Yes , he had one he is dead . 
'And that young lady , Mrs. Heathcliff , is his widow ? 'Yes . 
'Where did she come from originally ? 'Why , sir , she is my late master's daughter Catherine Linton was her maiden name . 
I nursed her , poor thing ! I did wish Mr. Heathcliff would remove here , and then we might have been together again . 
'What ! Catherine Linton ? I exclaimed , astonished . 
But a minute's reflection convinced me it was not my ghostly Catherine . 
Then , I continued , 'my predecessor's name was Linton ? 'It was . 
'And who is that Earnshaw Hareton Earnshaw , who lives with Mr. Heathcliff ? Are they relations ? 'No he is the late Mrs. Linton's nephew . 
'The young lady's cousin , then ? 'Yes and her husband was her cousin also one on the mother's , the other on the father's side Heathcliff married Mr. Linton's sister . 
'I see the house at Wuthering Heights has Earnshaw carved over the front door . 
Are they an old family ? 'Very old , sir and Hareton is the last of them , as our Miss Cathy is of us I mean , of the Lintons . 
Have you been to Wuthering Heights ? I beg pardon for asking but I should like to hear how she is ! 'Mrs . 
Heathcliff ? she looked very well , and very handsome yet , I think , not very happy . 
'Oh dear , I don't wonder ! And how did you like the master ? 'A rough fellow , rather , Mrs. Dean . 
Is not that his character ? 'Rough as a saw edge , and hard as whinstone ! The less you meddle with him the better . 
'He must have had some ups and downs in life to make him such a churl . 
And Hareton has been cast out like an unfledged dunnock ! The unfortunate lad is the only one in all this parish that does not guess how he has been cheated . 
'Oh , certainly , sir ! I'll just fetch a little sewing , and then I'll sit as long as you please . 
But you've caught cold I saw you shivering , and you must have some gruel to drive it out . 
of serious effects from the incidents of to day and yesterday . 
He did not forget me for he had a kind heart , though he was rather severe sometimes . 
He promised to bring me a pocketful of apples and pears , and then he kissed his children , said good bye , and set off . 
It seemed a long while to us all the three days of his absence and often did little Cathy ask when he would be home . 
'And at the end of it to be flighted to death ! he said , opening his great coat , which he held bundled up in his arms . 
Hindley and Cathy contented themselves with looking and listening till peace was restored then , both began searching their father's pockets for the presents he had promised them . 
By chance , or else attracted by hearing his voice , it crept to Mr. Earnshaw's door , and there he found it on quitting his chamber . 
Inquiries were made as to how it got there I was obliged to confess , and in recompense for my cowardice and inhumanity was sent out of the house . 
This was Heathcliff's first introduction to the family . 
, I found they had christened him 'Heathcliff' it was the name of a son who died in childhood , and it has served him ever since , both for Christian and surname . 
This endurance made old Earnshaw furious , when he discovered his son persecuting the poor fatherless child , as he called him . 
, and petting him up far above Cathy , who was too mischievous and wayward for a favourite . 
However , I will say this , he was the quietest child that ever nurse watched over . 
The difference between him and the others forced me to be less partial . 
Cathy and her brother harassed me terribly he was as uncomplaining as a lamb though hardness , not gentleness , made him give little trouble . 
He got through , and the doctor affirmed it was in a great measure owing to me , and praised me for my care . 
As an instance , I remember Mr. Earnshaw once bought a couple of colts at the parish fair , and gave the lads each one . 
Hindley put out his tongue , and cuffed him over the ears . 
'you will have to and if I speak of these blows , you'll get them again with interest . 
'Off , dog ! cried Hindley , threatening him with an iron weight used for weighing potatoes and hay . 
'Take my colt , Gipsy , then ! said young Earnshaw . 
I persuaded him easily to let me lay the blame of his bruises on the horse he minded little what tale was told since he had what he wanted . 
He complained so seldom , indeed , of such stirs as these , that I really thought him not vindictive I was deceived completely , as you will hear . 
CHAPTER V IN the course of time Mr. Earnshaw began to fail . 
He had been active and healthy , yet his strength left him suddenly and when he was confined to the chimney corner he grew grievously irritable . 
A nothing vexed him and suspected slights of his authority nearly threw him into fits . 
I hoped heartily we should have peace now . 
It hurt me to think the master should be made uncomfortable by his own good deed . 
We might have got on tolerably , notwithstanding , but for two people Miss Cathy , and Joseph , the servant you saw him , I daresay , up yonder . 
He was , and is yet most likely , the wearisomest self righteous Pharisee that ever ransacked a Bible to rake the promises to himself and fling the curses to his neighbours . 
By his knack of sermonising and pious discoursing , he contrived to make a great impression on Mr. Earnshaw and the more feeble the master became , the more influence he gained . 
He was relentless in worrying him about his soul's concerns , and about ruling his children rigidly . 
Her spirits were always at high water mark , her tongue always going singing , laughing , and plaguing everybody who would not do the same . 
She was much too fond of Heathcliff . 
The greatest punishment we could invent for her was to keep her separate from him yet she got chided more than any of us on his account . 
After behaving as badly as possible all day , she sometimes came fondling to make it up at night . 
'Nay , Cathy , the old man would say , 'I cannot love thee , thou'rt worse than thy brother . 
Go , say thy prayers , child , and ask God's pardon . 
But the hour came , at last , that ended Mr. Earnshaw's troubles on earth . 
He died quietly in his chair one October evening , seated by the fire side . 
Miss Cathy had been sick , and that made her still she leant against her father's knee , and Heathcliff was lying on the floor with his head in her lap . 
She began singing very low , till his fingers dropped from hers , and his head sank on his breast . 
Then I told her to hush , and not stir , for fear she should wake him . 
He stepped forward , and called him by name , and touched his shoulder but he would not move so he took the candle and looked at him . 
'I shall bid father good night first , said Catherine , putting her arms round his neck , before we could hinder her . 
The poor thing discovered her loss directly she screamed out 'Oh , he's dead , Heathcliff ! he's dead ! And they both set up a heart breaking cry . 
I joined my wail to theirs , loud and bitter but Joseph asked what we could be thinking of to roar in that way over a saint in heaven . 
He told me to put on my cloak and run to Gimmerton for the doctor and the parson . 
I could not guess the use that either would be of , then . 
However , I went , through wind and rain , and brought one , the doctor , back with me the other said he would come in the morning . 
HINDLEY came home to the funeral and a thing that amazed us , and set the neighbours gossiping right and left he brought a wife with him . 
She was not one that would have disturbed the house much on her own account . 
She was rather thin , but young , and fresh complexioned , and her eyes sparkled as bright as diamonds . 
We don't in general take to foreigners here , Mr. Lockwood , unless they take to us first . 
Young Earnshaw was altered considerably in the three years of his absence . 
Her affection tired very soon , however , and when she grew peevish , Hindley became tyrannical . 
A few words from her , evincing a dislike to Heathcliff , were enough to rouse in him all his old hatred of the boy . 
Heathcliff bore his degradation pretty well at first , because Cathy taught him what she learnt , and worked or played with him in the fields . 
They both promised fair to grow up as rude as savages the young master being entirely negligent how they behaved , and what they did , so they kept clear of him . 
In a while , I distinguished steps coming up the road , and the light of a lantern glimmered through the gate . 
I threw a shawl over my head and ran to prevent them from waking Mr. Earnshaw by knocking . 
There was Heathcliff , by himself it gave me a start to see him alone . 
'Where is Miss Catherine ? I cried hurriedly . 
'No accident , I hope ? 'At Thrushcross Grange , he answered 'and I would have been there too , but they had not the manners to ask me to stay . 
'Well , you will catch it ! I said 'you'll never be content till you're sent about your business . 
What in the world led you wandering to Thrushcross Grange ? 'Let me get off my wet clothes , and I'll tell you all about it , Nelly , he replied . 
'They are good children , no doubt , and don't deserve the treatment you receive , for your bad conduct . 
You'll have to seek for her shoes in the bog to morrow . 
We crept through a broken hedge , groped our way up the path , and planted ourselves on a flower plot under the drawing room window . 
The light came from thence they had not put up the shutters , and the curtains were only half closed . 
Old Mr. and Mrs. Linton were not there Edgar and his sisters had it entirely to themselves . 
'Still you have not told me , Heathcliff , how Catherine is left behind ? 'I told you we laughed , he answered . 
Oh , papa , oh ! They really did howl out something in that way . 
We made frightful noises to terrify them still more , and then we dropped off the ledge , because somebody was drawing the bars , and we felt we had better flee . 
I had Cathy by the hand , and was urging her on , when all at once she fell down . 
Run , Heathcliff , run ! she whispered . 
They have let the bull dog loose , and he holds me ! The devil had seized her ankle , Nelly I heard his abominable snorting . 
She did not yell out no ! she would have scorned to do it , if she had been spitted on the horns of a mad cow . 
The dog was throttled off his huge , purple tongue hanging half a foot out of his mouth , and his pendent lips streaming with bloody slaver . 
The man took Cathy up she was sick not from fear , I'm certain , but from pain . 
He carried her in I followed , grumbling execrations and vengeance . 
What prey , Robert ? hallooed Linton from the entrance . 
Hold your tongue , you foul mouthed thief , you ! you shall go to the gallows for this . 
Mr. Linton , sir , don't lay by your gun . 
No , no , Robert , said the old fool . 
The rascals knew that yesterday was my rent day they thought to have me cleverly . 
Come in I'll furnish them a reception . 
There , John , fasten the chain . 
Give Skulker some water , Jenny . 
The cowardly children crept nearer also , Isabella lisping Frightful thing ! Put him in the cellar , papa . 
He's exactly like the son of the fortune teller that stole my tame pheasant . 
Isn't he , Edgar ? 'While they examined me , Cathy came round she heard the last speech , and laughed . 
Edgar Linton , after an inquisitive stare , collected sufficient wit to recognise her . 
They see us at church , you know , though we seldom meet them elsewhere . 
that he lets her grow up in absolute heathenism . 
'I recommenced cursing don't be angry , Nelly and so Robert was ordered to take me off . 
She sat on the sofa quietly . 
'You are incurable , Heathcliff and Mr. Hindley will have to proceed to extremities , see if he won't . 
My words came truer than I desired . 
The luckless adventure made Earnshaw furious . 
CHAPTER VII CATHY stayed at Thrushcross Grange five weeks till Christmas . 
By that time her ankle was thoroughly cured , and her manners much improved . 
Hindley lifted her from her horse , exclaiming delightedly , 'Why , Cathy , you are quite a beauty ! I should scarcely have known you you look like a lady now . 
Ellen , help Miss Catherine off with her things Stay , dear , you will disarrange your curls let me untie your hat . 
She kissed me gently I was all flour making the Christmas cake , and it would not have done to give me a hug and then she looked round for Heathcliff . 
Mr. and Mrs. Earnshaw watched anxiously their meeting thinking it would enable them to judge , in some measure , what grounds they had for hoping to succeed in separating the two friends . 
Heathcliff was hard to discover , at first . 
If he were careless , and uncared for , before Catherine's absence , he had been ten times more so since . 
He might well skulk behind the settle , on beholding such a bright , graceful damsel enter the house , instead of a rough headed counterpart of himself , as he expected . 
'Is Heathcliff not here ? she demanded , pulling off her gloves , and displaying fingers wonderfully whitened with doing nothing and staying indoors . 
'Heathcliff , you may come forward , cried Mr. Hindley , enjoying his discomfiture , and gratified to see what a forbidding young blackguard he would be compelled to present himself . 
'You may come and wish Miss Catherine welcome , like the other servants . 
Well , Heathcliff , have you forgotten me ? She had some reason to put the question , for shame and pride threw double gloom over his countenance , and kept him immovable . 
'Shake hands , Heathcliff , said Mr. Earnshaw , condescendingly 'once in a way , that is permitted . 
'I shall not , replied the boy , finding his tongue at last 'I shall not stand to be laughed at . 
I shall not bear it ! And he would have broken from the circle , but Miss Cathy seized him again . 
'You needn't have touched me ! he answered , following her eye and snatching away his hand . 
'I shall be as dirty as I please and I like to be dirty , and I will be dirty . 
Under these circumstances I remained solitary . 
He was not far I found him smoothing the glossy coat of the new pony in the stable , and feeding the other beasts , according to custom . 
He proceeded with his task , and never turned his head towards me . 
'Come are you coming ? I continued . 
'There's a little cake for each of you , nearly enough and you'll need half an hour's donning . 
I waited five minutes , but getting no answer left him . 
Catherine supped with her brother and sister in law Joseph and I joined at an unsociable meal , seasoned with reproofs on one side and sauciness on the other . 
His cake and cheese remained on the table all night for the fairies . 
He managed to continue work till nine o'clock , and then marched dumb and dour to his chamber . 
In the morning he rose early and , as it was a holiday , carried his ill humour on to the moors not re appearing till the family were departed for church . 
Fasting and reflection seemed to have brought him to a better spirit . 
He hung about me for a while , and having screwed up his courage , exclaimed abruptly 'Nelly , make me decent , I'm going to be good . 
The notion of ENVYING Catherine was incomprehensible to him , but the notion of grieving her he understood clearly enough . 
'Did she say she was grieved ? he inquired , looking very serious . 
'She cried when I told her you were off again this morning . 
'Well , I cried last night , he returned , 'and I had more reason to cry than she . 
'Yes you had the reason of going to bed with a proud heart and an empty stomach , said I. 'Proud people breed sad sorrows for themselves . 
But , if you be ashamed of your touchiness , you must ask pardon , mind , when she comes in . 
And now , though I have dinner to get ready , I'll steal time to arrange you so that Edgar Linton shall look quite a doll beside you and that he does . 
'But , Nelly , if I knocked him down twenty times , that wouldn't make him less handsome or me more so . 
Oh , Heathcliff , you are showing a poor spirit ! Come to the glass , and I'll let you see what you should wish . 
'In other words , I must wish for Edgar Linton's great blue eyes and even forehead , he replied . 
'I do and that won't help me to them . 
And now that we've done washing , and combing , and sulking tell me whether you don't think yourself rather handsome ? I'll tell you , I do . 
You're fit for a prince in disguise . 
Catherine took a hand of each of the children , and brought them into the house and set them before the fire , which quickly put colour into their white faces . 
He'll be cramming his fingers in the tarts and stealing the fruit , if left alone with them a minute . 
'Nay , sir , I could not avoid answering , 'he'll touch nothing , not he and I suppose he must have his share of the dainties as well as we . 
'He shall have his share of my hand , if I catch him downstairs till dark , cried Hindley . 
and dashed it full against the speaker's face and neck who instantly commenced a lament that brought Isabella and Catherine hurrying to the place . 
I got the dishcloth , and rather spitefully scrubbed Edgar's nose and mouth , affirming it served him right for meddling . 
His sister began weeping to go home , and Cathy stood by confounded , blushing for all . 
'You should not have spoken to him ! she expostulated with Master Linton . 
'He was in a bad temper , and now you've spoilt your visit and he'll be flogged I hate him to be flogged ! I can't eat my dinner . 
Why did you speak to him , Edgar ? 'I didn't , sobbed the youth , escaping from my hands , and finishing the remainder of the purification with his cambric pocket handkerchief . 
'I promised mamma that I wouldn't say one word to him , and I didn't . 
'Well , don't cry , replied Catherine , contemptuously 'you're not killed . 
'That brute of a lad has warmed me nicely . 
Next time , Master Edgar , take the law into your own fists it will give you an appetite ! The little party recovered its equanimity at sight of the fragrant feast . 
They were hungry after their ride , and easily consoled , since no real harm had befallen them . 
Mr. Earnshaw carved bountiful platefuls , and the mistress made them merry with lively talk . 
I waited behind her chair , and was pained to behold Catherine , with dry eyes and an indifferent air , commence cutting up the wing of a goose before her . 
'An unfeeling child , I thought to myself 'how lightly she dismisses her old playmate's troubles . 
I could not have imagined her to be so selfish . 
She lifted a mouthful to her lips then she set it down again her cheeks flushed , and the tears gushed over them . 
She slipped her fork to the floor , and hastily dived under the cloth to conceal her emotion . 
In the evening we had a dance . 
Cathy begged that he might be liberated then , as Isabella Linton had no partner her entreaties were vain , and I was appointed to supply the deficiency . 
They go the rounds of all the respectable houses , and receive contributions every Christmas , and we esteemed it a first rate treat to hear them . 
After the usual carols had been sung , we set them to songs and glees . 
Mrs. Earnshaw loved the music , and so they gave us plenty . 
Catherine loved it too but she said it sounded sweetest at the top of the steps , and she went up in the dark I followed . 
They shut the house door below , never noting our absence , it was so full of people . 
She made no stay at the stairs' head , but mounted farther , to the garret where Heathcliff was confined , and called him . 
He stubbornly declined answering for a while she persevered , and finally persuaded him to hold communion with her through the boards . 
Instead of finding her outside , I heard her voice within . 
He leant his two elbows on his knees , and his chin on his hands and remained rapt in dumb meditation . 
On my inquiring the subject of his thoughts , he answered gravely 'I'm trying to settle how I shall pay Hindley back . 
I don't care how long I wait , if I can only do it at last . 
I hope he will not die before I do ! 'For shame , Heathcliff ! said I. 'It is for God to punish wicked people we should learn to forgive . 
'No , God won't have the satisfaction that I shall , he returned . 
'I only wish I knew the best way ! Let me alone , and I'll plan it out while I'm thinking of that I don't feel pain . 
'But , Mr. Lockwood , I forget these tales cannot divert you . 
Thus interrupting herself , the housekeeper rose , and proceeded to lay aside her sewing but I felt incapable of moving from the hearth , and I was very far from nodding . 
'Sit still , Mrs. Dean , I cried 'do sit still another half hour . 
You've done just right to tell the story leisurely . 
That is the method I like and you must finish it in the same style . 
I am interested in every character you have mentioned , more or less . 
'The clock is on the stroke of eleven , sir . 
'No matter I'm not accustomed to go to bed in the long hours . 
One or two is early enough for a person who lies till ten . 
'You shouldn't lie till ten . 
There's the very prime of the morning gone long before that time . 
A person who has not done one half his day's work by ten o'clock , runs a chance of leaving the other half undone . 
'Nevertheless , Mrs. Dean , resume your chair because to morrow I intend lengthening the night till afternoon . 
I prognosticate for myself an obstinate cold , at least . 
'I hope not , sir . 
'On the contrary , a tiresomely active one . 
It is mine , at present and , therefore , continue minutely . 
They DO live more in earnest , more in themselves , and less in surface , change , and frivolous external things . 
I could fancy a love for life here almost possible and I was a fixed unbeliever in any love of a year's standing . 
'Oh ! here we are the same as anywhere else , when you get to know us , observed Mrs. Dean , somewhat puzzled at my speech . 
'Excuse me , I responded 'you , my good friend , are a striking evidence against that assertion . 
Excepting a few provincialisms of slight consequence , you have no marks of the manners which I am habituated to consider as peculiar to your class . 
I am sure you have thought a great deal more than the generality of servants think . 
You have been compelled to cultivate your reflective faculties for want of occasions for frittering your life away in silly trifles . 
CHAPTER VIII ON the morning of a fine June day my first bonny little nursling , and the last of the ancient Earnshaw stock , was born . 
'Oh , such a grand bairn ! she panted out . 
'The finest lad that ever breathed ! But the doctor says missis must go he says she's been in a consumption these many months . 
I heard him tell Mr. Hindley and now she has nothing to keep her , and she'll be dead before winter . 
You must come home directly . 
You're to nurse it , Nelly to feed it with sugar and milk , and take care of it day and night . 
'I guess she is yet she looks bravely , replied the girl , 'and she talks as if she thought of living to see it grow a man . 
I was fairly mad at him . 
When she came , I felt convinced we shouldn't keep her long and now , I must tell you , the winter will probably finish her . 
Don't take on , and fret about it too much it can't be helped . 
And besides , you should have known better than to choose such a rush of a lass ! 'And what did the master answer ? I inquired . 
'I think he swore but I didn't mind him , I was straining to see the bairn , and she began again to describe it rapturously . 
I , as zealous as herself , hurried eagerly home to admire , on my part though I was very sad for Hindley's sake . 
He had room in his heart only for two idols his wife and himself he doted on both , and adored one , and I couldn't conceive how he would bear the loss . 
'And the mistress ? I ventured to inquire 'the doctor says she's 'Damn the doctor ! he interrupted , reddening . 
'Frances is quite right she'll be perfectly well by this time next week . 
Are you going up stairs ? will you tell her that I'll come , if she'll promise not to talk . 
I left her because she would not hold her tongue and she must tell her Mr. Kenneth says she must be quiet . 
It was a fever and it is gone her pulse is as slow as mine now , and her cheek as cool . 
As the girl had anticipated , the child Hareton fell wholly into my hands . 
Mr. Earnshaw , provided he saw him healthy and never heard him cry , was contented , as far as regarded him . 
For himself , he grew desperate his sorrow was of that kind that will not lament . 
He neither wept nor prayed he cursed and defied execrated God and man , and gave himself up to reckless dissipation . 
The servants could not bear his tyrannical and evil conduct long Joseph and I were the only two that would stay . 
I had not the heart to leave my charge and besides , you know , I had been his foster sister , and excused his behaviour more readily than a stranger would . 
Joseph remained to hector over tenants and labourers and because it was his vocation to be where he had plenty of wickedness to reprove . 
The master's bad ways and bad companions formed a pretty example for Catherine and Heathcliff . 
His treatment of the latter was enough to make a fiend of a saint . 
And , truly , it appeared as if the lad WERE possessed of something diabolical at that period . 
He delighted to witness Hindley degrading himself past redemption and became daily more notable for savage sullenness and ferocity . 
I could not half tell what an infernal house we had . 
The curate dropped calling , and nobody decent came near us , at last unless Edgar Linton's visits to Miss Cathy might be an exception . 
He was my late master that is his portrait over the fireplace . 
It used to hang on one side , and his wife's on the other but hers has been removed , or else you might see something of what she was . 
It formed a sweet picture . 
The long light hair curled slightly on the temples the eyes were large and serious the figure almost too graceful . 
I did not marvel how Catherine Earnshaw could forget her first friend for such an individual . 
I marvelled much how he , with a mind to correspond with his person , could fancy my idea of Catherine Earnshaw . 
'A very agreeable portrait , I observed to the house keeper . 
'Is it like ? 'Yes , she answered 'but he looked better when he was animated that is his everyday countenance he wanted spirit in general . 
Mr. Edgar seldom mustered courage to visit Wuthering Heights openly . 
I've had many a laugh at her perplexities and untold troubles , which she vainly strove to hide from my mockery . 
That sounds ill natured but she was so proud it became really impossible to pity her distresses , till she should be chastened into more humility . 
She did bring herself , finally , to confess , and to confide in me there was not a soul else that she might fashion into an adviser . 
Mr. Hindley had gone from home one afternoon , and Heathcliff presumed to give himself a holiday on the strength of it . 
His childhood's sense of superiority , instilled into him by the favours of old Mr. Earnshaw , was faded away . 
'Cathy , are you busy this afternoon ? asked Heathcliff . 
'Are you going anywhere ? 'No , it is raining , she answered . 
'Why have you that silk frock on , then ? he said . 
'Nobody coming here , I hope ? 'Not that I know of , stammered Miss 'but you should be in the field now , Heathcliff . 
It is an hour past dinnertime I thought you were gone . 
'Hindley does not often free us from his accursed presence , observed the boy . 
'I'll not work any more to day I'll stay with you . 
So , saying , he lounged to the fire , and sat down . 
Catherine reflected an instant , with knitted brows she found it needful to smooth the way for an intrusion . 
'Isabella and Edgar Linton talked of calling this afternoon , she said , at the conclusion of a minute's silence . 
'As it rains , I hardly expect them but they may come , and if they do , you run the risk of being scolded for no good . 
'Oh , Nelly ! she added petulantly , jerking her head away from my hands , 'you've combed my hair quite out of curl ! That's enough let me alone . 
Do you see ? I've marked every day . 
'Yes very foolish as if I took notice ! replied Catherine , in a peevish tone . 
'And where is the sense of that ? 'To show that I DO take notice , said Heathcliff . 
'And should I always be sitting with you ? she demanded , growing more irritated . 
'It's no company at all , when people know nothing and say nothing , she muttered . 
Doubtless Catherine marked the difference between her friends , as one came in and the other went out . 
The contrast resembled what you see in exchanging a bleak , hilly , coal country for a beautiful fertile valley and his voice and greeting were as opposite as his aspect . 
He had a sweet , low manner of speaking , and pronounced his words as you do that's less gruff than we talk here , and softer . 
'What are you doing there , Nelly ? 'My work , Miss , I replied . 
I'm sure Mr. Edgar will excuse me . 
'I'm sorry for it , Miss Catherine , was my response and I proceeded assiduously with my occupation . 
She , supposing Edgar could not see her , snatched the cloth from my hand , and pinched me , with a prolonged wrench , very spitefully on the arm . 
'I didn't touch you , you lying creature ! cried she , her fingers tingling to repeat the act , and her ears red with rage . 
She never had power to conceal her passion , it always set her whole complexion in a blaze . 
'What's that , then ? I retorted , showing a decided purple witness to refute her . 
'Catherine , love ! Catherine ! interposed Linton , greatly shocked at the double fault of falsehood and violence which his idol had committed . 
'Leave the room , Ellen ! she repeated , trembling all over . 
In an instant one was wrung free , and the astonished young man felt it applied over his own ear in a way that could not be mistaken for jest . 
He drew back in consternation . 
The insulted visitor moved to the spot where he had laid his hat , pale and with a quivering lip . 
'That's right ! I said to myself . 
'Take warning and begone ! It's a kindness to let you have a glimpse of her genuine disposition . 
'Where are you going ? demanded Catherine , advancing to the door . 
He swerved aside , and attempted to pass . 
'You must not go ! she exclaimed , energetically . 
'I must and shall ! he replied in a subdued voice . 
'No , she persisted , grasping the handle 'not yet , Edgar Linton sit down you shall not leave me in that temper . 
I should be miserable all night , and I won't be miserable for you ! 'Can I stay after you have struck me ? asked Linton . 
'You've made me afraid and ashamed of you , he continued 'I'll not come here again ! Her eyes began to glisten and her lids to twinkle . 
'And you told a deliberate untruth ! he said . 
'I didn't ! she cried , recovering her speech 'I did nothing deliberately . 
Edgar persevered in his resolution as far as the court there he lingered . 
I resolved to encourage him . 
'Miss is dreadfully wayward , sir , I called out . 
'As bad as any marred child you'd better be riding home , or else she will be sick , only to grieve us . 
, I saw the quarrel had merely effected a closer intimacy had broken the outworks of youthful timidity , and enabled them to forsake the disguise of friendship , and confess themselves lovers . 
Intelligence of Mr. Hindley's arrival drove Linton speedily to his horse , and Catherine to her chamber . 
CHAPTER IX HE entered , vociferating oaths dreadful to hear and caught me in the act of stowing his son sway in the kitchen cupboard . 
'There , I've found it out at last ! cried Hindley , pulling me back by the skin of my neck , like a dog . 
'By heaven and hell , you've sworn between you to murder that child ! I know how it is , now , that he is always out of my way . 
I'd rather be shot , if you please . 
'You'd rather be damned ! he said 'and so you shall . 
No law in England can hinder a man from keeping his house decent , and mine's abominable ! Open your mouth . 
He held the knife in his hand , and pushed its point between my teeth but , for my part , I was never much afraid of his vagaries . 
I spat out , and affirmed it tasted detestably I would not take it on any account . 
'Oh ! said he , releasing me , 'I see that hideous little villain is not Hareton I beg your pardon , Nell . 
If it be , he deserves flaying alive for not running to welcome me , and for screaming as if I were a goblin . 
Unnatural cub , come hither ! I'll teach thee to impose on a good hearted , deluded father . 
Hush , child , hush ! Well then , it is my darling ! wisht , dry thy eyes there's a joy kiss me . 
Poor Hareton was squalling and kicking in his father's arms with all his might , and redoubled his yells when he carried him up stairs and lifted him over the banister . 
I cried out that he would frighten the child into fits , and ran to rescue him . 
As I reached them , Hindley leant forward on the rails to listen to a noise below almost forgetting what he had in his hands . 
'Who is that ? he asked , hearing some one approaching the stairs' foot . 
There was scarcely time to experience a thrill of horror before we saw that the little wretch was safe . 
Heathcliff arrived underneath just at the critical moment by a natural impulse he arrested his descent , and setting him on his feet , looked up to discover the author of the accident . 
It expressed , plainer than words could do , the intensest anguish at having made himself the instrument of thwarting his own revenge . 
Hindley descended more leisurely , sobered and abashed . 
At the first finger his father laid on him , however , he shrieked again louder than before , and struggled as if he would go into convulsions . 
'You shall not meddle with him ! I continued . 
'At present , convey yourself and him away . 
And hark you , Heathcliff ! clear you too quite from my reach and hearing . 
I wouldn't murder you to night unless , perhaps , I set the house on fire but that's as my fancy goes . 
While saying this he took a pint bottle of brandy from the dresser , and poured some into a tumbler . 
'Nay , don't ! I entreated . 
Hindley , do take warning . 
Have mercy on this unfortunate boy , if you care nothing for yourself ! 'Any one will do better for him than I shall , he answered . 
'Have mercy on your own soul ! I said , endeavouring to snatch the glass from his hand . 
'Not I ! On the contrary , I shall have great pleasure in sending it to perdition to punish its Maker , exclaimed the blasphemer . 
'Here's to its hearty damnation ! He drank the spirits and impatiently bade us go terminating his command with a sequel of horrid imprecations too bad to repeat or remember . 
'It's a pity he cannot kill himself with drink , observed Heathcliff , muttering an echo of curses back when the door was shut . 
'He's doing his very utmost but his constitution defies him . 
I went into the kitchen , and sat down to lull my little lamb to sleep . 
Heathcliff , as I thought , walked through to the barn . 
She entered and approached the hearth . 
I , supposing she was going to say something , looked up . 
The expression of her face seemed disturbed and anxious . 
Her lips were half asunder , as if she meant to speak , and she drew a breath but it escaped in a sigh instead of a sentence . 
I resumed my song not having forgotten her recent behaviour . 
'Where's Heathcliff ? she said , interrupting me . 
'About his work in the stable , was my answer . 
He did not contradict me perhaps he had fallen into a doze . 
There followed another long pause , during which I perceived a drop or two trickle from Catherine's cheek to the flags . 
Is she sorry for her shameful conduct ? I asked myself . 
'Oh , dear ! she cried at last . 
'Is it worth keeping ? I inquired , less sulkily . 
'Yes , and it worries me , and I must let it out ! I want to know what I should do . 
To day , Edgar Linton has asked me to marry him , and I've given him an answer . 
Now , before I tell you whether it was a consent or denial , you tell me which it ought to have been . 
'Really , Miss Catherine , how can I know ? I replied . 
'If you talk so , I won't tell you any more , she returned , peevishly rising to her feet . 
'I accepted him , Nelly . 
Be quick , and say whether I was wrong ! 'You accepted him ! Then what good is it discussing the matter ? You have pledged your word , and cannot retract . 
'But say whether I should have done so do ! she exclaimed in an irritated tone chafing her hands together , and frowning . 
'There are many things to be considered before that question can be answered properly , I said , sententiously . 
'First and foremost , do you love Mr. Edgar ? 'Who can help it ? Of course I do , she answered . 
Then I put her through the following catechism for a girl of twenty two it was not injudicious . 
'Why do you love him , Miss Cathy ? 'Nonsense , I do that's sufficient . 
'By no means you must say why ? 'Well , because he is handsome , and pleasant to be with . 
'Bad ! was my commentary . 
'And because he is young and cheerful . 
'And because he loves me . 
'And he will be rich , and I shall like to be the greatest woman of the neighbourhood , and I shall be proud of having such a husband . 
And now , say how you love him ? 'As everybody loves You're silly , Nelly . 
'I love the ground under his feet , and the air over his head , and everything he touches , and every word he says . 
I love all his looks , and all his actions , and him entirely and altogether . 
'I'm very far from jesting , Miss Catherine , I replied . 
'You love Mr. Edgar because he is handsome , and young , and cheerful , and rich , and loves you . 
The last , however , goes for nothing you would love him without that , probably and with it you wouldn't , unless he possessed the four former attractions . 
'No , to be sure not I should only pity him hate him , perhaps , if he were ugly , and a clown . 
'But there are several other handsome , rich young men in the world handsomer , possibly , and richer than he is . 
What should hinder you from loving them ? 'If there be any , they are out of my way I've seen none like Edgar . 
'You may see some and he won't always be handsome , and young , and may not always be rich . 
'He is now and I have only to do with the present . 
I wish you would speak rationally . 
'Well , that settles it if you have only to do with the present , marry Mr. Linton . 
'I don't want your permission for that I SHALL marry him and yet you have not told me whether I'm right . 
'Perfectly right if people be right to marry only for the present . 
And now , let us hear what you are unhappy about . 
In my soul and in my heart , I'm convinced I'm wrong ! 'That's very strange ! I cannot make it out . 
But if you will not mock at me , I'll explain it I can't do it distinctly but I'll give you a feeling of how I feel . 
She seated herself by me again her countenance grew sadder and graver , and her clasped hands trembled . 
'Nelly , do you never dream queer dreams ? she said , suddenly , after some minutes' reflection . 
'Yes , now and then , I answered . 
And this is one I'm going to tell it but take care not to smile at any part of it . 
'Oh ! don't , Miss Catherine ! I cried . 
'We're dismal enough without conjuring up ghosts and visions to perplex us . 
Come , come , be merry and like yourself ! Look at little Hareton ! HE'S dreaming nothing dreary . 
However , Nelly , I shall oblige you to listen it's not long and I've no power to be merry to night . 
'I won't hear it , I won't hear it ! I repeated , hastily . 
She was vexed , but she did not proceed . 
Apparently taking up another subject , she recommenced in a short time . 
'If I were in heaven , Nelly , I should be extremely miserable . 
'Because you are not fit to go there , I answered . 
'All sinners would be miserable in heaven . 
'But it is not for that . 
I dreamt once that I was there . 
'I tell you I won't hearken to your dreams , Miss Catherine ! I'll go to bed , I interrupted again . 
She laughed , and held me down for I made a motion to leave my chair . 
That will do to explain my secret , as well as the other . 
Whatever our souls are made of , his and mine are the same and Linton's is as different as a moonbeam from lightning , or frost from fire . 
Ere this speech ended I became sensible of Heathcliff's presence . 
Having noticed a slight movement , I turned my head , and saw him rise from the bench , and steal out noiselessly . 
He had listened till he heard Catherine say it would degrade her to marry him , and then he stayed to hear no further . 
'Joseph is here , I answered , catching opportunely the roll of his cartwheels up the road 'and Heathcliff will come in with him . 
I'm not sure whether he were not at the door this moment . 
'Oh , he couldn't overhear me at the door ! said she . 
'Give me Hareton , while you get the supper , and when it is ready ask me to sup with you . 
I want to cheat my uncomfortable conscience , and be convinced that Heathcliff has no notion of these things . 
'Who is to separate us , pray ? They'll meet the fate of Milo ! Not as long as I live , Ellen for no mortal creature . 
Every Linton on the face of the earth might melt into nothing before I could consent to forsake Heathcliff . 
Edgar must shake off his antipathy , and tolerate him , at least . 
He will , when he learns my true feelings towards him . 
'With your husband's money , Miss Catherine ? I asked . 
'It is not , retorted she 'it is the best ! The others were the satisfaction of my whims and for Edgar's sake , too , to satisfy him . 
This is for the sake of one who comprehends in his person my feelings to Edgar and myself . 
I cannot express it but surely you and everybody have a notion that there is or should be an existence of yours beyond you . 
My love for Linton is like the foliage in the woods time will change it , I'm well aware , as winter changes the trees . 
My love for Heathcliff resembles the eternal rocks beneath a source of little visible delight , but necessary . 
So don't talk of our separation again it is impracticable and She paused , and hid her face in the folds of my gown but I jerked it forcibly away . 
But trouble me with no more secrets I'll not promise to keep them . 
'You'll keep that ? she asked , eagerly . 
'No , I'll not promise , I repeated . 
She was about to insist , when the entrance of Joseph finished our conversation and Catherine removed her seat to a corner , and nursed Hareton , while I made the supper . 
After it was cooked , my fellow servant and I began to quarrel who should carry some to Mr. Hindley and we didn't settle it till all was nearly cold . 
Then we came to the agreement that we would let him ask , if he wanted any for we feared particularly to go into his presence when he had been some time alone . 
'And how isn't that nowt comed in fro' th' field , be this time ? What is he about ? girt idle seeght ! demanded the old man , looking round for Heathcliff . 
'I'll call him , I replied . 
'He's in the barn , I've no doubt . 
I went and called , but got no answer . 
She was absent such a while that Joseph proposed we should wait no longer . 
He cunningly conjectured they were staying away in order to avoid hearing his protracted blessing . 
They were 'ill eneugh for ony fahl manners , he affirmed . 
'And the gate is open he is somewhere out of hearing for he would not reply , though I shouted at the top of the fold as loud as I could . 
Joseph objected at first she was too much in earnest , however , to suffer contradiction and at last he placed his hat on his head , and walked grumbling forth . 
Meantime , Catherine paced up and down the floor , exclaiming 'I wonder where he is I wonder where he can be ! What did I say , Nelly ? I've forgotten . 
Was he vexed at my bad humour this afternoon ? Dear ! tell me what I've said to grieve him ? I do wish he'd come . 
I do wish he would ! 'What a noise for nothing ! I cried , though rather uneasy myself . 
I'll engage he's lurking there . 
See if I don't ferret him out ! I departed to renew my search its result was disappointment , and Joseph's quest ended in the same . 
'Yon lad gets war und war ! observed he on re entering . 
'Have you been looking for him , as I ordered ? 'I sud more likker look for th' horse , he replied . 
'It 'ud be to more sense . 
However , Catherine would hot be persuaded into tranquillity . 
She beat Hareton , or any child , at a good passionate fit of crying . 
About midnight , while we still sat up , the storm came rattling over the Heights in full fury . 
I felt some sentiment that it must be a judgment on us also . 
The Jonah , in my mind , was Mr. Earnshaw and I shook the handle of his den that I might ascertain if he were yet living . 
She came in and lay down on the settle , all soaked as she was , turning her face to the back , and putting her hands before it . 
'Well , Miss ! I exclaimed , touching her shoulder 'you are not bent on getting your death , are you ? Do you know what o'clock it is ? Half past twelve . 
Come , come to bed ! there's no use waiting any longer on that foolish boy he'll be gone to Gimmerton , and he'll stay there now . 
'Nay , nay , he's noan at Gimmerton , said Joseph . 
'I's niver wonder but he's at t' bothom of a bog hoile . 
This visitation worn't for nowt , and I wod hev' ye to look out , Miss yah muh be t' next . 
Thank Hivin for all ! All warks togither for gooid to them as is chozzen , and piked out fro' th' rubbidge ! Yah knaw whet t' Scripture ses . 
And he began quoting several texts , referring us to chapters and verses where we might find them . 
I heard Joseph read on a while afterwards then I distinguished his slow step on the ladder , and then I dropped asleep . 
Coming down somewhat later than usual , I saw , by the sunbeams piercing the chinks of the shutters , Miss Catherine still seated near the fireplace . 
The house door was ajar , too light entered from its unclosed windows Hindley had come out , and stood on the kitchen hearth , haggard and drowsy . 
'What ails you , Cathy ? he was saying when I entered 'you look as dismal as a drowned whelp . 
Why are you so damp and pale , child ? 'I've been wet , she answered reluctantly , 'and I'm cold , that's all . 
'Oh , she is naughty ! I cried , perceiving the master to be tolerably sober . 
'She got steeped in the shower of yesterday evening , and there she has sat the night through , and I couldn't prevail on her to stir . 
Mr. Earnshaw stared at us in surprise . 
'The night through , he repeated . 
'What kept her up ? not fear of the thunder , surely ? That was over hours since . 
I'm starving ! And her teeth chattered as she shrank closer to the almost extinguished embers . 
'She's ill , said Hindley , taking her wrist 'I suppose that's the reason she would not go to bed . 
Damn it ! I don't want to be troubled with more sickness here . 
What took you into the rain ? 'Running after t' lads , as usuald ! croaked Joseph , catching an opportunity from our hesitation to thrust in his evil tongue . 
, 'yah gooid fur nowt , slattenly witch ! nip up and bolt into th' house , t' minute yah heard t' maister's horse fit clatter up t' road . 
'I never saw Heathcliff last night , answered Catherine , beginning to sob bitterly 'and if you do turn him out of doors , I'll go with him . 
But , perhaps , you'll never have an opportunity perhaps , he's gone . 
Here she burst into uncontrollable grief , and the remainder of her words were inarticulate . 
I thought she was going mad , and I begged Joseph to run for the doctor . 
It proved the commencement of delirium Mr. Kenneth , as soon as he saw her , pronounced her dangerously ill she had a fever . 
But the poor dame had reason to repent of her kindness she and her husband both took the fever , and died within a few days of each other . 
Our young lady returned to us saucier and more passionate , and haughtier than ever . 
From that period , for several months , she ceased to hold any communication with me , save in the relation of a mere servant . 
We made a sad parting but Catherine's tears were more powerful than ours . 
When I refused to go , and when she found her entreaties did not move me , she went lamenting to her husband and brother . 
And so I had but one choice left to do as I was ordered . 
She would not hear of staying a second longer in truth , I felt rather disposed to defer the sequel of her narrative myself . 
About seven days ago he sent me a brace of grouse the last of the season . 
Scoundrel ! He is not altogether guiltless in this illness of mine and that I had a great mind to tell him . 
I am too weak to read yet I feel as if I could enjoy something interesting . 
Why not have up Mrs. Dean to finish her tale ? I can recollect its chief incidents , as far as she had gone . 
Yes I remember her hero had run off , and never been heard of for three years and the heroine was married . 
I'll ring she'll be delighted to find me capable of talking cheerfully . 
'It wants twenty minutes , sir , to taking the medicine , she commenced . 
'Away , away with it ! I replied 'I desire to have 'The doctor says you must drop the powders . 
'With all my heart ! Don't interrupt me . 
Come and take your seat here . 
Keep your fingers from that bitter phalanx of vials . 
Draw your knitting out of your pocket that will do now continue the history of Mr. Heathcliff , from where you left off , to the present day . 
Are you feeling better this morning ? 'Much . 
I got Miss Catherine and myself to Thrushcross Grange and , to my agreeable disappointment , she behaved infinitely better than I dared to expect . 
She seemed almost over fond of Mr. Linton and even to his sister she showed plenty of affection . 
They were both very attentive to her comfort , certainly . 
It was not the thorn bending to the honeysuckles , but the honeysuckles embracing the thorn . 
He many a time spoke sternly to me about my pertness and averred that the stab of a knife could not inflict a worse pang than he suffered at seeing his lady vexed . 
The return of sunshine was welcomed by answering sunshine from him . 
I believe I may assert that they were really in possession of deep and growing happiness . 
On a mellow evening in September , I was coming from the garden with a heavy basket of apples which I had been gathering . 
It had got dusk , and the moon looked over the high wall of the court , causing undefined shadows to lurk in the corners of the numerous projecting portions of the building . 
I turned about to discover who spoke , fearfully for the doors were shut , and I had seen nobody on approaching the steps . 
Something stirred in the porch and , moving nearer , I distinguished a tall man dressed in dark clothes , with dark face and hair . 
He leant against the side , and held his fingers on the latch as if intending to open for himself . 
'Who can it be ? I thought . 
Earnshaw ? Oh , no ! The voice has no resemblance to his . 
'I have waited here an hour , he resumed , while I continued staring 'and the whole of that time all round has been as still as death . 
'What ! I cried , uncertain whether to regard him as a worldly visitor , and I raised my hands in amazement . 
'Are they at home ? where is she ? Nelly , you are not glad ! you needn't be so disturbed . 
Is she here ? Speak ! I want to have one word with her your mistress . 
Go , and say some person from Gimmerton desires to see her . 
'How will she take it ? I exclaimed . 
'What will she do ? The surprise bewilders me it will put her out of her head ! And you ARE Heathcliff ! But altered ! Nay , there's no comprehending it . 
Have you been for a soldier ? 'Go and carry my message , he interrupted , impatiently . 
At length I resolved on making an excuse to ask if they would have the candles lighted , and I opened the door . 
Wuthering Heights rose above this silvery vapour but our old house was invisible it rather dips down on the other side . 
Both the room and its occupants , and the scene they gazed on , looked wondrously peaceful . 
'What does he want ? asked Mrs. Linton . 
'I did not question him , I answered . 
'Well , close the curtains , Nelly , she said 'and bring up tea . 
I'll be back again directly . 
She quitted the apartment Mr. Edgar inquired , carelessly , who it was . 
'Some one mistress does not expect , I replied . 
'That Heathcliff you recollect him , sir who used to live at Mr. Earnshaw's . 
'What ! the gipsy the ploughboy ? he cried . 
'Why did you not say so to Catherine ? 'Hush ! you must not call him by those names , master , I said . 
'She'd be sadly grieved to hear you . 
She was nearly heartbroken when he ran off . 
I guess his return will make a jubilee to her . 
Mr. Linton walked to a window on the other side of the room that overlooked the court . 
He unfastened it , and leant out . 
I suppose they were below , for he exclaimed quickly 'Don't stand there , love ! Bring the person in , if it be anyone particular . 
'Oh , Edgar , Edgar ! she panted , flinging her arms round his neck . 
'Oh , Edgar darling ! Heathcliff's come back he is ! And she tightened her embrace to a squeeze . 
'Well , well , cried her husband , crossly , 'don't strangle me for that ! He never struck me as such a marvellous treasure . 
There is no need to be frantic ! 'I know you didn't like him , she answered , repressing a little the intensity of her delight . 
'Yet , for my sake , you must be friends now . 
Shall I tell him to come up ? 'Here , he said , 'into the parlour ? 'Where else ? she asked . 
He looked vexed , and suggested the kitchen as a more suitable place for him . 
Mrs. Linton eyed him with a droll expression half angry , half laughing at his fastidiousness . 
'No , she added , after a while 'I cannot sit in the kitchen . 
Set two tables here , Ellen one for your master and Miss Isabella , being gentry the other for Heathcliff and myself , being of the lower orders . 
Will that please you , dear ? Or must I have a fire lighted elsewhere ? If so , give directions . 
I'll run down and secure my guest . 
I'm afraid the joy is too great to be real ! She was about to dart off again but Edgar arrested her . 
'YOU bid him step up , he said , addressing me 'and , Catherine , try to be glad , without being absurd . 
The whole household need not witness the sight of your welcoming a runaway servant as a brother . 
I descended , and found Heathcliff waiting under the porch , evidently anticipating an invitation to enter . 
He followed my guidance without waste of words , and I ushered him into the presence of the master and mistress , whose flushed cheeks betrayed signs of warm talking . 
Now , fully revealed by the fire and candlelight , I was amazed , more than ever , to behold the transformation of Heathcliff . 
He had grown a tall , athletic , well formed man beside whom my master seemed quite slender and youth like . 
His upright carriage suggested the idea of his having been in the army . 
His countenance was much older in expression and decision of feature than Mr. Linton's it looked intelligent , and retained no marks of former degradation . 
My master's surprise equalled or exceeded mine he remained for a minute at a loss how to address the ploughboy , as he had called him . 
Heathcliff dropped his slight hand , and stood looking at him coolly till he chose to speak . 
'Sit down , sir , he said , at length . 
Linton , recalling old times , would have me give you a cordial reception and , of course , I am gratified when anything occurs to please her . 
'And I also , answered Heathcliff , 'especially if it be anything in which I have a part . 
I shall stay an hour or two willingly . 
He took a seat opposite Catherine , who kept her gaze fixed on him as if she feared he would vanish were she to remove it . 
He did not raise his to her often a quick glance now and then sufficed but it flashed back , each time more confidently , the undisguised delight he drank from hers . 
They were too much absorbed in their mutual joy to suffer embarrassment . 
'I shall think it a dream to morrow ! she cried . 
'I shall not be able to believe that I have seen , and touched , and spoken to you once more . 
And yet , cruel Heathcliff ! you don't deserve this welcome . 
To be absent and silent for three years , and never to think of me ! 'A little more than you have thought of me , he murmured . 
Your welcome has put these ideas out of my mind but beware of meeting me with another aspect next time ! Nay , you'll not drive me off again . 
You were really sorry for me , were you ? Well , there was cause . 
Heathcliff will have a long walk , wherever he may lodge to night and I'm thirsty . 
She took her post before the urn and Miss Isabella came , summoned by the bell then , having handed their chairs forward , I left the room . 
The meal hardly endured ten minutes . 
Catherine's cup was never filled she could neither eat nor drink . 
Edgar had made a slop in his saucer , and scarcely swallowed a mouthful . 
Their guest did not protract his stay that evening above an hour longer . 
I asked , as he departed , if he went to Gimmerton ? 'No , to Wuthering Heights , he answered 'Mr . 
Earnshaw invited me , when I called this morning . 
Mr. Earnshaw invited HIM ! and HE called on Mr. Earnshaw ! I pondered this sentence painfully , after he was gone . 
'I cannot rest , Ellen , she said , by way of apology . 
'What use is it praising Heathcliff to him ? I answered . 
'As lads they had an aversion to each other , and Heathcliff would hate just as much to hear him praised it's human nature . 
Let Mr. Linton alone about him , unless you would like an open quarrel between them . 
'But does it not show great weakness ? pursued she . 
It pleases her brother to see us cordial , and that pleases me . 
'You're mistaken , Mrs. Linton , said I. 'They humour you I know what there would be to do if they did not . 
You can well afford to indulge their passing whims as long as their business is to anticipate all your desires . 
'And then we shall fight to the death , sha'n't we , Nelly ? she returned , laughing . 
'No ! I tell you , I have such faith in Linton's love , that I believe I might kill him , and he wouldn't wish to retaliate . 
I advised her to value him the more for his affection . 
'I do , she answered , 'but he needn't resort to whining for trifles . 
'He is reformed in every respect , apparently quite a Christian offering the right hand of fellowship to his enemies all around ! 'He explained it , she replied . 
'I wonder as much as you . 
Hindley is too reckless to select his acquaintance prudently he doesn't trouble himself to reflect on the causes he might have for mistrusting one whom he has basely injured . 
The event of this evening has reconciled me to God and humanity ! I had risen in angry rebellion against Providence . 
Oh , I've endured very , very bitter misery , Nelly ! If that creature knew how bitter , he'd be ashamed to cloud its removal with idle petulance . 
Heathcliff Mr. Heathcliff I should say in future used the liberty of visiting at Thrushcross Grange cautiously , at first he seemed estimating how far its owner would bear his intrusion . 
Catherine , also , deemed it judicious to moderate her expressions of pleasure in receiving him and he gradually established his right to be expected . 
He retained a great deal of the reserve for which his boyhood was remarkable and that served to repress all startling demonstrations of feeling . 
My master's uneasiness experienced a lull , and further circumstances diverted it into another channel for a space . 
His new source of trouble sprang from the not anticipated misfortune of Isabella Linton evincing a sudden and irresistible attraction towards the tolerated guest . 
She was at that time a charming young lady of eighteen infantile in manners , though possessed of keen wit , keen feelings , and a keen temper , too , if irritated . 
Her brother , who loved her tenderly , was appalled at this fantastic preference . 
And he dreaded that mind it revolted him he shrank forebodingly from the idea of committing Isabella to its keeping . 
We had all remarked , during some time , that Miss Linton fretted and pined over something . 
She grew cross and wearisome snapping at and teasing Catherine continually , at the imminent risk of exhausting her limited patience . 
We excused her , to a certain extent , on the plea of ill health she was dwindling and fading before our eyes . 
Mention of Kenneth caused her to exclaim , instantly , that her health was perfect , and it was only Catherine's harshness which made her unhappy . 
'How can you say I am harsh , you naughty fondling ? cried the mistress , amazed at the unreasonable assertion . 
'You are surely losing your reason . 
When have I been hash , tell me ? 'Yesterday , sobbed Isabella , 'and now ! 'Yesterday ! said her sister in law . 
'It was no hint that your company was superfluous ? We didn't care whether you kept with us or not I merely thought Heathcliff's talk would have nothing entertaining for your ears . 
'Oh , no , wept the young lady 'you wished me away , because you knew I liked to be there ! 'Is she sane ? asked Mrs. Linton , appealing to me . 
'I'll repeat our conversation , word for word , Isabella and you point out any charm it could have had for you . 
'I don't mind the conversation , she answered 'I wanted to be with Well ? said Catherine , perceiving her hesitate to complete the sentence . 
'With him and I won't be always sent off ! she continued , kindling up . 
'You are a dog in the manger , Cathy , and desire no one to be loved but yourself ! 'You are an impertinent little monkey ! exclaimed Mrs. Linton , in surprise . 
'Nelly , help me to convince her of her madness . 
Tell her what Heathcliff is an unreclaimed creature , without refinement , without cultivation an arid wilderness of furze and whinstone . 
I know he couldn't love a Linton and yet he'd be quite capable of marrying your fortune and expectations avarice is growing with him a besetting sin . 
Miss Linton regarded her sister in law with indignation . 
'For shame ! for shame ! she repeated , angrily . 
'You are worse than twenty foes , you poisonous friend ! 'Ah ! you won't believe me , then ? said Catherine . 
'You think I speak from wicked selfishness ? 'I'm certain you do , retorted Isabella 'and I shudder at you ! 'Good ! cried the other . 
'Try for yourself , if that be your spirit I have done , and yield the argument to your saucy insolence . 
'And I must suffer for her egotism ! she sobbed , as Mrs. Linton left the room . 
'All , all is against me she has blighted my single consolation . 
'He's a bird of bad omen no mate for you . 
Mrs. Linton spoke strongly , and yet I can't contradict her . 
She is better acquainted with his heart than I , or any one besides and she never would represent him as worse than he is . 
Honest people don't hide their deeds . 
One on 'em 's a'most getten his finger cut off wi' hauding t' other fro' stickin' hisseln loike a cawlf . 
That's maister , yeah knaw , 'at 's soa up o' going tuh t' grand 'sizes . 
He can girn a laugh as well 's onybody at a raight divil's jest . 
'I'll not listen to your slanders . 
The day after , there was a justice meeting at the next town my master was obliged to attend and Mr. Heathcliff , aware of his absence , called rather earlier than usual . 
She did laugh as she saw Heathcliff pass the window . 
I was sweeping the hearth , and I noticed a mischievous smile on her lips . 
'Come in , that's right ! exclaimed the mistress , gaily , pulling a chair to the fire . 
'Here are two people sadly in need of a third to thaw the ice between them and you are the very one we should both of us choose . 
Heathcliff , I'm proud to show you , at last , somebody that dotes on you more than myself . 
I expect you to feel flattered . 
Nay , it's not Nelly don't look at her ! My poor little sister in law is breaking her heart by mere contemplation of your physical and moral beauty . 
'By no means ! cried Mrs. Linton in answer . 
'I won't be named a dog in the manger again . 
'I think you belie her , said Heathcliff , twisting his chair to face them . 
'There's a tigress ! exclaimed Mrs. Linton , setting her free , and shaking her hand with pain . 
'Begone , for God's sake , and hide your vixen face ! How foolish to reveal those talons to him . 
Can't you fancy the conclusions he'll draw ? Look , Heathcliff ! they are instruments that will do execution you must beware of your eyes . 
'I'd wrench them off her fingers , if they ever menaced me , he answered , brutally , when the door had closed after her . 
'But what did you mean by teasing the creature in that manner , Cathy ? You were not speaking the truth , were you ? 'I assure you I was , she returned . 
But don't notice it further I wished to punish her sauciness , that's all . 
I like her too well , my dear Heathcliff , to let you absolutely seize and devour her up . 
'And I like her too ill to attempt it , said he , 'except in a very ghoulish fashion . 
'They are dove's eyes angel's ! 'She's her brother's heir , is she not ? he asked , after a brief silence . 
'I should be sorry to think so , returned his companion . 
From their tongues they did dismiss it and Catherine , probably , from her thoughts . 
The other , I felt certain , recalled it often in the course of the evening . 
I saw him smile to himself grin rather and lapse into ominous musing whenever Mrs. Linton had occasion to be absent from the apartment . 
I determined to watch his movements . 
I wanted something to happen which might have the effect of freeing both Wuthering Heights and the Grange of Mr. Heathcliff quietly leaving us as we had been prior to his advent . 
His visits were a continual nightmare to me and , I suspected , to my master also . 
His abode at the Heights was an oppression past explaining . 
One time I passed the old gate , going out of my way , on a journey to Gimmerton . 
It was about the period that my narrative has reached a bright frosty afternoon the ground bare , and the road hard and dry . 
The sun shone yellow on its grey head , reminding me of summer and I cannot say why , but all at once a gush of child's sensations flowed into my heart . 
Hindley and I held it a favourite spot twenty years before . 
'Poor Hindley ! I exclaimed , involuntarily . 
The apparition had outstripped me it stood looking through the gate . 
That was my first idea on observing an elf locked , brown eyed boy setting his ruddy countenance against the bars . 
Further reflection suggested this must be Hareton , MY Hareton , not altered greatly since I left him , ten months since . 
'God bless thee , darling ! I cried , forgetting instantaneously my foolish fears . 
'Hareton , it's Nelly ! Nelly , thy nurse . 
He retreated out of arm's length , and picked up a large flint . 
You may be certain this grieved more than angered me . 
Fit to cry , I took an orange from my pocket , and offered it to propitiate him . 
He hesitated , and then snatched it from my hold as if he fancied I only intended to tempt and disappoint him . 
I showed another , keeping it out of his reach . 
'Who has taught you those fine words , my bairn ? I inquired . 
'The curate ? 'Damn the curate , and thee ! Gie me that , he replied . 
'Tell us where you got your lessons , and you shall have it , said I. 'Who's your master ? 'Devil daddy , was his answer . 
'And what do you learn from daddy ? I continued . 
He jumped at the fruit I raised it higher . 
'What does he teach you ? I asked . 
'Naught , said he , 'but to keep out of his gait . 
Daddy cannot bide me , because I swear at him . 
'Ah ! and the devil teaches you to swear at daddy ? I observed . 
'Ay nay , he drawled . 
'Who , then ? 'Heathcliff . 
'I asked if he liked Mr. Heathcliff . 
'Ay ! he answered again . 
Desiring to have his reasons for liking him , I could only gather the sentences 'I known't he pays dad back what he gies to me he curses daddy for cursing me . 
He says I mun do as I will . 
'And the curate does not teach you to read and write , then ? I pursued . 
The next time Heathcliff came my young lady chanced to be feeding some pigeons in the court . 
She had never spoken a word to her sister in law for three days but she had likewise dropped her fretful complaining , and we found it a great comfort . 
Heathcliff had not the habit of bestowing a single unnecessary civility on Miss Linton , I knew . 
Now , as soon as he beheld her , his first precaution was to take a sweeping survey of the house front . 
I was standing by the kitchen window , but I drew out of sight . 
He then stepped across the pavement to her , and said something she seemed embarrassed , and desirous of getting away to prevent it , he laid his hand on her arm . 
She averted her face he apparently put some question which she had no mind to answer . 
There was another rapid glance at the house , and supposing himself unseen , the scoundrel had the impudence to embrace her . 
'Judas ! Traitor ! I ejaculated . 
'You are a hypocrite , too , are you ? A deliberate deceiver . 
'Who is , Nelly ? said Catherine's voice at my elbow I had been over intent on watching the pair outside to mark her entrance . 
'Your worthless friend ! I answered , warmly 'the sneaking rascal yonder . 
'To hear you , people might think you were the mistress ! she cried . 
I detested him just then . 
'God keep him meek and patient ! Every day I grow madder after sending him to heaven ! 'Hush ! said Catherine , shutting the inner door ! 'Don't vex me . 
Why have you disregarded my request ? Did she come across you on purpose ? 'What is it to you ? he growled . 
'I have a right to kiss her , if she chooses and you have no right to object . 
I am not YOUR husband YOU needn't be jealous of me ! 'I'm not jealous of you , replied the mistress 'I'm jealous for you . 
Clear your face you sha'n't scowl at me ! If you like Isabella , you shall marry her . 
But do you like her ? Tell the truth , Heathcliff ! There , you won't answer . 
'And would Mr. Linton approve of his sister marrying that man ? I inquired . 
Linton should approve , returned my lady , decisively . 
'He might spare himself the trouble , said Heathcliff 'I could do as well without his approbation . 
And as to you , Catherine , I have a mind to speak a few words now , while we are at it . 
And stand you aside ! 'What new phase of his character is this ? exclaimed Mrs. Linton , in amazement . 
The tyrant grinds down his slaves and they don't turn against him they crush those beneath them . 
Having levelled my palace , don't erect a hovel and complacently admire your own charity in giving me that for a home . 
If I imagined you really wished me to marry Isabel , I'd cut my throat ! 'Oh , the evil is that I am NOT jealous , is it ? cried Catherine . 
'Well , I won't repeat my offer of a wife it is as bad as offering Satan a lost soul . 
Your bliss lies , like his , in inflicting misery . 
Quarrel with Edgar , if you please , Heathcliff , and deceive his sister you'll hit on exactly the most efficient method of revenging yourself on me . 
Mrs. Linton sat down by the fire , flushed and gloomy . 
The spirit which served her was growing intractable she could neither lay nor control it . 
'Ellen , said he , when I entered , 'have you seen your mistress ? 'Yes she's in the kitchen , sir , I answered . 
'She's sadly put out by Mr. Heathcliff's behaviour and , indeed , I do think it's time to arrange his visits on another footing . 
There's harm in being too soft , and now it's come to this . 
And I related the scene in the court , and , as near as I dared , the whole subsequent dispute . 
I fancied it could not be very prejudicial to Mrs. Linton unless she made it so afterwards , by assuming the defensive for her guest . 
Edgar Linton had difficulty in hearing me to the close . 
His first words revealed that he did not clear his wife of blame . 
'This is insufferable ! he exclaimed . 
'It is disgraceful that she should own him for a friend , and force his company on me ! Call me two men out of the hall , Ellen . 
Catherine shall linger no longer to argue with the low ruffian I have humoured her enough . 
He descended , and bidding the servants wait in the passage , went , followed by me , to the kitchen . 
He saw the master first , and made a hasty motion that she should be silent which she obeyed , abruptly , on discovering the reason of his intimation . 
Heathcliff , who had raised his eyes at the former speech , gave a sneering laugh at the latter on purpose , it seemed , to draw Mr. Linton's attention to him . 
He succeeded but Edgar did not mean to entertain him with any high flights of passion . 
Three minutes' delay will render it involuntary and ignominious . 
Heathcliff measured the height and breadth of the speaker with an eye full of derision . 
'Cathy , this lamb of yours threatens like a bull ! he said . 
'It is in danger of splitting its skull against my knuckles . 
I obeyed the hint but Mrs. Linton , suspecting something , followed and when I attempted to call them , she pulled me back , slammed the door to , and locked it . 
'Fair means ! she said , in answer to her husband's look of angry surprise . 
'If you have not courage to attack him , make an apology , or allow yourself to be beaten . 
It will correct you of feigning more valour than you possess . 
For his life he could not avert that excess of emotion mingled anguish and humiliation overcame him completely . 
He leant on the back of a chair , and covered his face . 
'Oh , heavens ! In old days this would win you knighthood ! exclaimed Mrs. Linton . 
'We are vanquished ! we are vanquished ! Heathcliff would as soon lift a finger at you as the king would march his army against a colony of mice . 
Cheer up ! you sha'n't be hurt ! Your type is not a lamb , it's a sucking leveret . 
'I wish you joy of the milk blooded coward , Cathy ! said her friend . 
'I compliment you on your taste . 
Is he weeping , or is he going to faint for fear ? The fellow approached and gave the chair on which Linton rested a push . 
He'd better have kept his distance my master quickly sprang erect , and struck him full on the throat a blow that would have levelled a slighter man . 
It took his breath for a minute and while he choked , Mr. Linton walked out by the back door into the yard , and from thence to the front entrance . 
'There ! you've done with coming here , cried Catherine . 
'Get away , now he'll return with a brace of pistols and half a dozen assistants . 
If he did overhear us , of course he'd never forgive you . 
You've played me an ill turn , Heathcliff ! But go make haste ! I'd rather see Edgar at bay than you . 
'Do you suppose I'm going with that blow burning in my gullet ? he thundered . 
The gardeners and coachman were there but Linton was with them . 
They had already entered the court . 
Mrs. Linton , who was very much excited , bade me accompany her up stairs . 
She did not know my share in contributing to the disturbance , and I was anxious to keep her in ignorance . 
'I'm nearly distracted , Nelly ! she exclaimed , throwing herself on the sofa . 
And , Nelly , say to Edgar , if you see him again to night , that I'm in danger of being seriously ill . 
I wish it may prove true . 
He has startled and distressed me shockingly ! I want to frighten him . 
What possessed him to turn listener ? Heathcliff's talk was outrageous , after you left us but I could soon have diverted him from Isabella , and the rest meant nothing . 
I wish you could dismiss that apathy out of that countenance , and look rather more anxious about me . 
Therefore I said nothing when I met the master coming towards the parlour but I took the liberty of turning back to listen whether they would resume their quarrel together . 
He began to speak first . 
'Remain where you are , Catherine , he said without any anger in his voice , but with much sorrowful despondency . 
'To get rid of me , answer my question , persevered Mr. Linton . 
'You must answer it and that violence does not alarm me . 
I have found that you can be as stoical as anyone , when you please . 
'I require to be let alone ? exclaimed Catherine , furiously . 
'I demand it ! Don't you see I can scarcely stand ? Edgar , you you leave me ! She rang the bell till it broke with a twang I entered leisurely . 
He told me to fetch some water . 
She had no breath for speaking . 
I brought a glass full and as she would not drink , I sprinkled it on her face . 
In a few seconds she stretched herself out stiff , and turned up her eyes , while her cheeks , at once blanched and livid , assumed the aspect of death . 
'There is nothing in the world the matter , I whispered . 
I did not want him to yield , though I could not help being afraid in my heart . 
'She has blood on her lips ! he said , shuddering . 
'Never mind ! I answered , tartly . 
And I told him how she had resolved , previous to his coming , on exhibiting a fit of frenzy . 
I made up my mind for broken bones , at least but she only glared about her for an instant , and then rushed from the room . 
The master directed me to follow I did , to her chamber door she hindered me from going further by securing it against me . 
As she never offered to descend to breakfast next morning , I went to ask whether she would have some carried up . 
'No ! she replied , peremptorily . 
The same question was repeated at dinner and tea and again on the morrow after , and received the same answer . 
Mr. Linton , on his part , spent his time in the library , and did not inquire concerning his wife's occupations . 
That I set down as a speech meant for Edgar's ears I believed no such thing , so I kept it to myself and brought her some tea and dry toast . 
She ate and drank eagerly , and sank back on her pillow again , clenching her hands and groaning . 
'Oh , I will die , she exclaimed , 'since no one cares anything about me . 
I wish I had not taken that . 
'What is that apathetic being doing ? she demanded , pushing the thick entangled locks from her wasted face . 
'Has he fallen into a lethargy , or is he dead ? 'Neither , replied I 'if you mean Mr. Linton . 
He's tolerably well , I think , though his studies occupy him rather more than they ought he is continually among his books , since he has no other society . 
I should not have spoken so if I had known her true condition , but I could not get rid of the notion that she acted a part of her disorder . 
'Among his books ! she cried , confounded . 
'Is that Catherine Linton ? He imagines me in a pet in play , perhaps . 
Are you speaking the truth about him now ? Take care . 
'You think not ? Cannot you tell him I will ? she returned . 
How strange ! I thought , though everybody hated and despised each other , they could not avoid loving me . 
And they have all turned to enemies in a few hours they have , I'm positive the people here . 
How dreary to meet death , surrounded by their cold faces ! Isabella , terrified and repelled , afraid to enter the room , it would be so dreadful to watch Catherine go . 
Tossing about , she increased her feverish bewilderment to madness , and tore the pillow with her teeth then raising herself up all burning , desired that I would open the window . 
We were in the middle of winter , the wind blew strong from the north east , and I objected . 
'That's a turkey's , she murmured to herself 'and this is a wild duck's and this is a pigeon's . 
Ah , they put pigeons' feathers in the pillows no wonder I couldn't die ! Let me take care to throw it on the floor when I lie down . 
And here is a moor cock's and this I should know it among a thousand it's a lapwing's . 
Bonny bird wheeling over our heads in the middle of the moor . 
It wanted to get to its nest , for the clouds had touched the swells , and it felt rain coming . 
This feather was picked up from the heath , the bird was not shot we saw its nest in the winter , full of little skeletons . 
Heathcliff set a trap over it , and the old ones dared not come . 
I made him promise he'd never shoot a lapwing after that , and he didn't . 
Yes , here are more ! Did he shoot my lapwings , Nelly ? Are they red , any of them ? Let me look . 
'Give over with that baby work ! I interrupted , dragging the pillow away , and turning the holes towards the mattress , for she was removing its contents by handfuls . 
'Lie down and shut your eyes you're wandering . 
There's a mess ! The down is flying about like snow . 
I went here and there collecting it . 
'I see in you , Nelly , she continued dreamily , 'an aged woman you have grey hair and bent shoulders . 
That's what you'll come to fifty years hence I know you are not so now . 
'The black press ? where is that ? I asked . 
'You are talking in your sleep ! 'It's against the wall , as it always is , she replied . 
'Don't YOU see that face ? she inquired , gazing earnestly at the mirror . 
And say what I could , I was incapable of making her comprehend it to be her own so I rose and covered it with a shawl . 
'It's behind there still ! she pursued , anxiously . 
'There's nobody here ! I insisted . 
'It was YOURSELF , Mrs. Linton you knew it a while since . 
'Myself ! she gasped , 'and the clock is striking twelve ! It's true , then ! that's dreadful ! Her fingers clutched the clothes , and gathered them over her eyes . 
I attempted to steal to the door with an intention of calling her husband but I was summoned back by a piercing shriek the shawl had dropped from the frame . 
Trembling and bewildered , she held me fast , but the horror gradually passed from her countenance its paleness gave place to a glow of shame . 
'Oh , dear ! I thought I was at home , she sighed . 
'I thought I was lying in my chamber at Wuthering Heights . 
Because I'm weak , my brain got confused , and I screamed unconsciously . 
Don't say anything but stay with me . 
I dread sleeping my dreams appal me . 
'A sound sleep would do you good , ma'am , I answered 'and I hope this suffering will prevent your trying starving again . 
'Oh , if I were but in my own bed in the old house ! she went on bitterly , wringing her hands . 
'And that wind sounding in the firs by the lattice . 
Do let me feel it it comes straight down the moor do let me have one breath ! To pacify her I held the casement ajar a few seconds . 
A cold blast rushed through I closed it , and returned to my post . 
She lay still now , her face bathed in tears . 
Exhaustion of body had entirely subdued her spirit our fiery Catherine was no better than a wailing child . 
'How long is it since I shut myself in here ? she asked , suddenly reviving . 
'It was Monday evening , I replied , 'and this is Thursday night , or rather Friday morning , at present . 
'What ! of the same week ? she exclaimed . 
I remember being in the parlour after they had quarrelled , and Edgar being cruelly provoking , and me running into this room desperate . 
As soon as ever I had barred the door , utter blackness overwhelmed me , and I fell on the floor . 
I was a child my father was just buried , and my misery arose from the separation that Hindley had ordered between me and Heathcliff . 
I cannot say why I felt so wildly wretched it must have been temporary derangement for there is scarcely cause . 
Open the window again wide fasten it open ! Quick , why don't you move ? 'Because I won't give you your death of cold , I answered . 
'You won't give me a chance of life , you mean , she said , sullenly . 
'However , I'm not helpless yet I'll open it myself . 
I entreated , and finally attempted to force her to retire . 
'Look ! she cried eagerly , 'that's my room with the candle in it , and the trees swaying before it and the other candle is in Joseph's garret . 
Joseph sits up late , doesn't he ? He's waiting till I come home that he may lock the gate . 
Well , he'll wait a while yet . 
But , Heathcliff , if I dare you now , will you venture ? If you do , I'll keep you . 
I'll not lie there by myself they may bury me twelve feet deep , and throw the church down over me , but I won't rest till you are with me . 
I never will ! She paused , and resumed with a strange smile . 
'He's considering he'd rather I'd come to him ! Find a way , then ! not through that kirkyard . 
, when , to my consternation , I heard the rattle of the door handle , and Mr. Linton entered . 
'Oh , sir ! I cried , checking the exclamation risen to his lips at the sight which met him , and the bleak atmosphere of the chamber . 
'My poor mistress is ill , and she quite masters me I cannot manage her at all pray , come and persuade her to go to bed . 
Forget your anger , for she's hard to guide any way but her own . 
'Catherine ill ? he said , hastening to us . 
'Shut the window , Ellen ! Catherine ! why He was silent . 
The haggardness of Mrs. Linton's appearance smote him speechless , and he could only glance from her to me in horrified astonishment . 
I felt I uttered my explanations awkwardly the master frowned . 
'It is nothing , is it , Ellen Dean ? he said sternly . 
'You shall account more clearly for keeping me ignorant of this ! And he took his wife in his arms , and looked at her with anguish . 
At first she gave him no glance of recognition he was invisible to her abstracted gaze . 
'Ah ! you are come , are you , Edgar Linton ? she said , with angry animation . 
'Am I nothing to you any more ? Do you love that wretch Heath 'Hush ! cried Mrs. Linton . 
I don't want you , Edgar I'm past wanting you . 
I'm glad you possess a consolation , for all you had in me is gone . 
'Her mind wanders , sir , I interposed . 
'She has been talking nonsense the whole evening but let her have quiet , and proper attendance , and she'll rally . 
Hereafter , we must be cautious how we vex her . 
'I desire no further advice from you , answered Mr. Linton . 
'You knew your mistress's nature , and you encouraged me to harass her . 
I performed the duty of a faithful servant in telling you , and I have got a faithful servant's wages ! Well , it will teach me to be careful next time . 
Next time you may gather intelligence for yourself ! 'The next time you bring a tale to me you shall quit my service , Ellen Dean , he replied . 
'Ah ! Nelly has played traitor , she exclaimed , passionately . 
'Nelly is my hidden enemy . 
I felt no inclination to tarry the event and , resolving to seek medical aid on my own responsibility , I quitted the chamber . 
Notwithstanding my hurry , I stayed to examine it , lest ever after I should have the conviction impressed on my imagination that it was a creature of the other world . 
My surprise and perplexity were great on discovering , by touch more than vision , Miss Isabella's springer , Fanny , suspended by a handkerchief , and nearly at its last gasp . 
I quickly released the animal , and lifted it into the garden . 
I had seen it follow its mistress up stairs when she went to bed and wondered much how it could have got out there , and what mischievous person had treated it so . 
'Nelly Dean , said he , 'I can't help fancying there's an extra cause for this . 
What has there been to do at the Grange ? We've odd reports up here . 
A stout , hearty lass like Catherine does not fall ill for a trifle and that sort of people should not either . 
It's hard work bringing them through fevers , and such things . 
How did it begin ? 'The master will inform you , I answered 'but you are acquainted with the Earnshaws' violent dispositions , and Mrs. Linton caps them all . 
I may say this it commenced in a quarrel . 
She was struck during a tempest of passion with a kind of fit . 
That's her account , at least for she flew off in the height of it , and locked herself up . 
Linton will be sorry ? observed Kenneth , interrogatively . 
Sorry ? he'll break his heart should anything happen ! I replied . 
'Don't alarm him more than necessary . 
At present he's discharged from the trouble of calling owing to some presumptuous aspirations after Miss Linton which he manifested . 
I hardly think he'll be taken in again . 
'And does Miss Linton turn a cold shoulder on him ? was the doctor's next question . 
'I'm not in her confidence , returned I , reluctant to continue the subject . 
'No , she's a sly one , he remarked , shaking his head . 
'She keeps her own counsel ! But she's a real little fool . 
The little dog was yelping in the garden yet . 
On ascending to Isabella's room , my suspicions were confirmed it was empty . 
Had I been a few hours sooner Mrs. Linton's illness might have arrested her rash step . 
But what could be done now ? There was a bare possibility of overtaking them if pursued instantly . 
The doctor , on examining the case for himself , spoke hopefully to him of its having a favourable termination , if we could only preserve around her perfect and constant tranquillity . 
To me , he signified the threatening danger was not so much death , as permanent alienation of intellect . 
I trembled lest he should send me to call her but I was spared the pain of being the first proclaimant of her flight . 
'Speak lower , Mary What is the matter ? said Mr. Linton . 
'What ails your young lady ? 'She's gone , she's gone ! Yon' Heathcliff's run off wi' her ! gasped the girl . 
'That is not true ! exclaimed Linton , rising in agitation . 
'It cannot be how has the idea entered your head ? Ellen Dean , go and seek her . 
It is incredible it cannot be . 
As he spoke he took the servant to the door , and then repeated his demand to know her reasons for such an assertion . 
'Why , I met on the road a lad that fetches milk here , she stammered , 'and he asked whether we weren't in trouble at the Grange . 
I thought he meant for missis's sickness , so I answered , yes . 
Then says he , There's somebody gone after 'em , I guess ? I stared . 
And she noticed the man Heathcliff it was , she felt certain nob'dy could mistake him , besides put a sovereign in her father's hand for payment . 
The lady had a cloak about her face but having desired a sup of water , while she drank it fell back , and she saw her very plain . 
Heathcliff held both bridles as they rode on , and they set their faces from the village , and went as fast as the rough roads would let them . 
The lass said nothing to her father , but she told it all over Gimmerton this morning . 
I ran and peeped , for form's sake , into Isabella's room confirming , when I returned , the servant's statement . 
'Are we to try any measures for overtaking and bringing her back , I inquired . 
'How should we do ? 'She went of her own accord , answered the master 'she had a right to go if she pleased . 
Trouble me no more about her . 
Hereafter she is only my sister in name not because I disown her , but because she has disowned me . 
CHAPTER XIII FOR two months the fugitives remained absent in those two months , Mrs. Linton encountered and conquered the worst shock of what was denominated a brain fever . 
No mother could have nursed an only child more devotedly than Edgar tended her . 
The first time she left her chamber was at the commencement of the following March . 
'These are the earliest flowers at the Heights , she exclaimed . 
'They remind me of soft thaw winds , and warm sunshine , and nearly melted snow . 
'I shall never be there but once more , said the invalid 'and then you'll leave me , and I shall remain for ever . 
Next spring you'll long again to have me under this roof , and you'll look back and think you were happy to day . 
Ah , I thought myself , she might recover , so waited on as she was . 
I should mention that Isabella sent to her brother , some six weeks from her departure , a short note , announcing her marriage with Heathcliff . 
I'll read it for I keep it yet . 
Any relic of the dead is precious , if they were valued living . 
DEAR ELLEN , it begins , I came last night to Wuthering Heights , and heard , for the first time , that Catherine has been , and is yet , very ill . 
I must not write to her , I suppose , and my brother is either too angry or too distressed to answer what I sent him . 
Still , I must write to somebody , and the only choice left me is you . 
they need not expect me , and they may draw what conclusions they please taking care , however , to lay nothing at the door of my weak will or deficient affection . 
The remainder of the letter is for yourself alone . 
Don't write , but come , and bring me something from Edgar . 
Now , you shall hear how I have been received in my new home , as I am led to imagine the Heights will be . 
It is to amuse myself that I dwell on such subjects as the lack of external comforts they never occupy my thoughts , except at the moment when I miss them . 
He did it with a courtesy that redounded to his credit . 
His first act was to elevate his torch to a level with my face , squint malignantly , project his under lip , and turn away . 
Then he took the two horses , and led them into the stables reappearing for the purpose of locking the outer gate , as if we lived in an ancient castle . 
By the fire stood a ruffianly child , strong in limb and dirty in garb , with a look of Catherine in his eyes and about his mouth . 
'This is Edgar's legal nephew , I reflected 'mine in a manner I must shake hands , and yes I must kiss him . 
It is right to establish a good understanding at the beginning . 
I approached , and , attempting to take his chubby fist , said 'How do you do , my dear ? He replied in a jargon I did not comprehend . 
'Shall you and I be friends , Hareton ? was my next essay at conversation . 
An oath , and a threat to set Throttler on me if I did not 'frame off' rewarded my perseverance . 
'Hey , Throttler , lad ! whispered the little wretch , rousing a half bred bull dog from its lair in a corner . 
'Now , wilt thou be ganging ? he asked authoritatively . 
Love for my life urged a compliance I stepped over the threshold to wait till the others should enter . 
I walked round the yard , and through a wicket , to another door , at which I took the liberty of knocking , in hopes some more civil servant might show himself . 
'What's your business here ? he demanded , grimly . 
'Who are you ? 'My name was Isabella Linton , I replied . 
'You've seen me before , sir . 
I'm lately married to Mr. Heathcliff , and he has brought me here I suppose , by your permission . 
'Is he come back , then ? asked the hermit , glaring like a hungry wolf . 
I inquired whether I might call the maid , and be conducted to a bedroom ! Mr. Earnshaw vouchsafed no answer . 
I was not aware how openly I grieved , till Earnshaw halted opposite , in his measured walk , and gave me a stare of newly awakened surprise . 
'Joseph will show you Heathcliff's chamber , said he 'open that door he's in there . 
'But why , Mr. Earnshaw ? I did not relish the notion of deliberately fastening myself in with Heathcliff . 
'Look here ! he replied , pulling from his waistcoat a curiously constructed pistol , having a double edged spring knife attached to the barrel . 
'That's a great tempter to a desperate man , is it not ? I cannot resist going up with this every night , and trying his door . 
You fight against that devil for love as long as you may when the time comes , not all the angels in heaven shall save him ! I surveyed the weapon inquisitively . 
A hideous notion struck me how powerful I should be possessing such an instrument ! I took it from his hand , and touched the blade . 
He looked astonished at the expression my face assumed during a brief second it was not horror , it was covetousness . 
He snatched the pistol back , jealously shut the knife , and returned it to its concealment . 
'I don't care if you tell him , said he . 
'Put him on his guard , and watch for him . 
You know the terms we are on , I see his danger does not shock you . 
'What has Heathcliff done to you ? I asked . 
He is clearly on the verge of madness he was so last night at least . 
I shuddered to be near him , and thought on the servant's ill bred moroseness as comparatively agreeable . 
He now recommenced his moody walk , and I raised the latch , and escaped into the kitchen . 
Joseph was bending over the fire , peering into a large pan that swung above it and a wooden bowl of oatmeal stood on the settle close by . 
Earnshaw , I continued , 'directs me to wait on myself I will . 
I'm not going to act the lady among you , for fear I should starve . 
'Gooid Lord ! he muttered , sitting down , and stroking his ribbed stockings from the knee to the ankle . 
'If there's to be fresh ortherings just when I getten used to two maisters , if I mun hev' a MISTRESS set o'er my heead , it's like time to be flitting . 
Joseph beheld my style of cookery with growing indignation . 
'Hareton , thou willn't sup thy porridge to neeght they'll be naught but lumps as big as my neive . 
Thear , agean ! I'd fling in bowl un' all , if I wer ye ! There , pale t' guilp off , un' then ye'll hae done wi' 't . 
I expostulated , and desired that he should have his in a mug affirming that I could not taste the liquid treated so dirtily . 
Meanwhile , the infant ruffian continued sucking and glowered up at me defyingly , as he slavered into the jug . 
'I shall have my supper in another room , I said . 
'Have you no place you call a parlour ? 'PARLOUR ! he echoed , sneeringly , 'PARLOUR ! Nay , we've noa PARLOURS . 
If yah dunnut loike wer company , there's maister's un' if yah dunnut loike maister , there's us . 
'Then I shall go up stairs , I answered 'show me a chamber . 
I put my basin on a tray , and went myself to fetch some more milk . 
'Here's a rahm , he said , at last , flinging back a cranky board on hinges . 
'It's weel eneugh to ate a few porridge in . 
There's a pack o' corn i' t' corner , thear , meeterly clane if ye're feared o' muckying yer grand silk cloes , spread yer hankerchir o' t' top on't . 
The 'rahm' was a kind of lumber hole smelling strong of malt and grain various sacks of which articles were piled around , leaving a wide , bare space in the middle . 
'Why , man , I exclaimed , facing him angrily , 'this is not a place to sleep in . 
I wish to see my bed room . 
'BED RUME ! he repeated , in a tone of mockery . 
'Yah's see all t' BED RUMES thear is yon's mine . 
'What do I want with yours ? I retorted . 
The chairs were also damaged , many of them severely and deep indentations deformed the panels of the walls . 
I was endeavouring to gather resolution for entering and taking possession , when my fool of a guide announced , 'This here is t' maister's . 
My supper by this time was cold , my appetite gone , and my patience exhausted . 
I insisted on being provided instantly with a place of refuge , and means of repose . 
'Whear the divil ? began the religious elder . 
'The Lord bless us ! The Lord forgie us ! Whear the HELL wdd ye gang ? ye marred , wearisome nowt ! Ye've seen all but Hareton's bit of a cham'er . 
'Ech ! ech ! exclaimed Joseph . 
Will Hathecliff bide sich bonny ways , think ye ? I nobbut wish he may catch ye i' that plisky . 
I nobbut wish he may . 
And so he went on scolding to his den beneath , taking the candle with him and I remained in the dark . 
The period of reflection succeeding this silly action compelled me to admit the necessity of smothering my pride and choking my wrath , and bestirring myself to remove its effects . 
Our labours were scarcely over when I heard Earnshaw's tread in the passage my assistant tucked in his tail , and pressed to the wall I stole into the nearest doorway . 
The dog's endeavour to avoid him was unsuccessful as I guessed by a scutter down stairs , and a prolonged , piteous yelping . 
I had better luck he passed on , entered his chamber , and shut the door . 
Directly after Joseph came up with Hareton , to put him to bed . 
My slumber was deep and sweet , though over far too soon . 
The adjective OUR gave mortal offence . 
He told me of Catherine's illness , and accused my brother of causing it promising that I should be Edgar's proxy in suffering , till he could get hold of him . 
I do hate him I am wretched I have been a fool ! Beware of uttering one breath of this to any one at the Grange . 
I shall expect you every day don't disappoint me ! ISABELLA . 
'I have nothing to forgive her , Ellen . 
'And you won't write her a little note , sir ? I asked , imploringly . 
My communication with Heathcliff's family shall be as sparing as his with mine . 
But she already partook of the pervading spirit of neglect which encompassed her . 
Her pretty face was wan and listless her hair uncurled some locks hanging lankly down , and some carelessly twisted round her head . 
Probably she had not touched her dress since yester evening . 
He was the only thing there that seemed decent and I thought he never looked better . 
, give it to her . 
You needn't make a secret of it we have no secrets between us . 
'Oh , I have nothing , I replied , thinking it best to speak the truth at once . 
'My master bid me tell his sister that she must not expect either a letter or a visit from him at present . 
Mrs. Heathcliff's lip quivered slightly , and she returned to her seat in the window . 
Her husband took his stand on the hearthstone , near me , and began to put questions concerning Catherine . 
I told him as much as I thought proper of her illness , and he extorted from me , by cross examination , most of the facts connected with its origin . 
Another encounter between you and the master would kill her altogether . 
You may look incredulous , if you please ! I never would have banished him from her society as long as she desired his . 
'You suppose she has nearly forgotten me ? he said . 
And then , Linton would be nothing , nor Hindley , nor all the dreams that ever I dreamt . 
Two words would comprehend my future DEATH and HELL existence , after losing her , would be hell . 
Yet I was a fool to fancy for a moment that she valued Edgar Linton's attachment more than mine . 
If he loved with all the powers of his puny being , he couldn't love as much in eighty years as I could in a day . 
And Catherine has a heart as deep as I have the sea could be as readily contained in that horse trough as her whole affection be monopolised by him . 
Tush ! He is scarcely a degree dearer to her than her dog , or her horse . 
'He turns you adrift on the world with surprising alacrity . 
'He is not aware of what I suffer , she replied . 
'I didn't tell him that . 
'You have been telling him something , then you have written , have you ? 'To say that I was married , I did write you saw the note . 
'And nothing since ? 'No . 
'My young lady is looking sadly the worse for her change of condition , I remarked . 
'Somebody's love comes short in her case , obviously whose , I may guess but , perhaps , I shouldn't say . 
'I should guess it was her own , said Heathcliff . 
'She degenerates into a mere slut ! She is tired of trying to please me uncommonly early . 
You'd hardly credit it , but the very morrow of our wedding she was weeping to go home . 
However , she'll suit this house so much the better for not being over nice , and I'll take care she does not disgrace me by rambling abroad . 
You must let her have a maid to keep things tidy about her , and you must treat her kindly . 
'She abandoned them under a delusion , he answered 'picturing in me a hero of romance , and expecting unlimited indulgences from my chivalrous devotion . 
It was a marvellous effort of perspicacity to discover that I did not love her . 
But I don't care who knows that the passion was wholly on one side and I never told her a lie about it . 
She cannot accuse me of showing one bit of deceitful softness . 
I have avoided , up to this period , giving her the slightest right to claim a separation and , what's more , she'd thank nobody for dividing us . 
If she desired to go , she might the nuisance of her presence outweighs the gratification to be derived from tormenting her ! 'Mr . 
'Don't put faith in a single word he speaks . 
Go up stairs I have something to say to Ellen Dean in private . 
'Do you understand what the word pity means ? I said , hastening to resume my bonnet . 
'Did you ever feel a touch of it in your life ? 'Put that down ! he interrupted , perceiving my intention to depart . 
'You are not going yet . 
Come here now , Nelly I must either persuade or compel you to aid me in fulfilling my determination to see Catherine , and that without delay . 
If Edgar Linton meets me , I shall not hesitate to knock him down , and give him enough to insure his quiescence while I stay . 
If his servants oppose me , I shall threaten them off with these pistols . 
But wouldn't it be better to prevent my coming in contact with them , or their master ? And you could do it so easily . 
I protested against playing that treacherous part in my employer's house and , besides , I urged the cruelty and selfishness of his destroying Mrs. Linton's tranquillity for his satisfaction . 
'The commonest occurrence startles her painfully , I said . 
'She's all nerves , and she couldn't bear the surprise , I'm positive . 
You say she never mentions my name , and that I am never mentioned to her . 
To whom should she mention me if I am a forbidden topic in the house ? She thinks you are all spies for her husband . 
Oh , I've no doubt she's in hell among you ! I guess by her silence , as much as anything , what she feels . 
You say she is often restless , and anxious looking is that a proof of tranquillity ? You talk of her mind being unsettled . 
Was it right or wrong ? I fear it was wrong , though expedient . 
Notwithstanding , my journey homeward was sadder than my journey thither and many misgivings I had , ere I could prevail on myself to put the missive into Mrs. Linton's hand . 
But here is Kenneth I'll go down , and tell him how much better you are . 
My history is DREE , as we say , and will serve to while away another morning . 
Dree , and dreary ! I reflected as the good woman descended to receive the doctor and not exactly of the kind which I should have chosen to amuse me . 
But never mind ! I'll extract wholesome medicines from Mrs. Dean's bitter herbs and firstly , let me beware of the fascination that lurks in Catherine Heathcliff's brilliant eyes . 
I should be in a curious taking if I surrendered my heart to that young person , and the daughter turned out a second edition of the mother . 
I'll continue it in her own words , only a little condensed . 
She is , on the whole , a very fair narrator , and I don't think I could improve her style . 
I had made up my mind not to give it till my master went somewhere , as I could not guess how its receipt would affect Catherine . 
The consequence was , that it did not reach her before the lapse of three days . 
The fourth was Sunday , and I brought it into her room after the family were gone to church . 
He departed , and I went up stairs . 
Mrs. Linton sat in a loose white dress , with a light shawl over her shoulders , in the recess of the open window , as usual . 
Her thick , long hair had been partly removed at the beginning of her illness , and now she wore it simply combed in its natural tresses over her temples and neck . 
Her appearance was altered , as I had told Heathcliff but when she was calm , there seemed unearthly beauty in the change . 
A book lay spread on the sill before her , and the scarcely perceptible wind fluttered its leaves at intervals . 
Gimmerton chapel bells were still ringing and the full , mellow flow of the beck in the valley came soothingly on the ear . 
It was a sweet substitute for the yet absent murmur of the summer foliage , which drowned that music about the Grange when the trees were in leaf . 
At Wuthering Heights it always sounded on quiet days following a great thaw or a season of steady rain . 
'There's a letter for you , Mrs. Linton , I said , gently inserting it in one hand that rested on her knee . 
'You must read it immediately , because it wants an answer . 
Shall I break the seal ? 'Yes , she answered , without altering the direction of her eyes . 
I opened it it was very short . 
'Now , I continued , 'read it . 
She drew away her hand , and let it fall . 
There was a start and a troubled gleam of recollection , and a struggle to arrange her ideas . 
'Well , he wishes to see you , said I , guessing her need of an interpreter . 
'He's in the garden by this time , and impatient to know what answer I shall bring . 
Mrs. Linton bent forward , and listened breathlessly . 
With straining eagerness Catherine gazed towards the entrance of her chamber . 
'Oh , Cathy ! Oh , my life ! how can I bear it ? was the first sentence he uttered , in a tone that did not seek to disguise his despair . 
And now he stared at her so earnestly that I thought the very intensity of his gaze would bring tears into his eyes but they burned with anguish they did not melt . 
'What now ? said Catherine , leaning back , and returning his look with a suddenly clouded brow her humour was a mere vane for constantly varying caprices . 
'I wish I could hold you , she continued , bitterly , 'till we were both dead ! I shouldn't care what you suffered . 
I care nothing for your sufferings . 
The two , to a cool spectator , made a strange and fearful picture . 
Well might Catherine deem that heaven would be a land of exile to her , unless with her mortal body she cast away her moral character also . 
She said nothing further till the paroxysm was over then she continued , more kindly 'I'm not wishing you greater torment than I have , Heathcliff . 
She bent round to look at him he would not permit it turning abruptly , he walked to the fireplace , where he stood , silent , with his back towards us . 
Mrs. Linton's glance followed him suspiciously every movement woke a new sentiment in her . 
THAT is how I'm loved ! Well , never mind . 
That is not MY Heathcliff . 
I shall love mine yet and take him with me he's in my soul . 
And , added she musingly , 'the thing that irks me most is this shattered prison , after all . 
I'm tired of being enclosed here . 
Nelly , you think you are better and more fortunate than I in full health and strength you are sorry for me very soon that will be altered . 
I shall be sorry for YOU . 
I shall be incomparably beyond and above you all . 
I WONDER he won't be near me ! She went on to herself . 
'I thought he wished it . 
Heathcliff , dear ! you should not be sullen now . 
Do come to me , Heathcliff . 
In her eagerness she rose and supported herself on the arm of the chair . 
At that earnest appeal he turned to her , looking absolutely desperate . 
His eyes , wide and wet , at last flashed fiercely on her his breast heaved convulsively . 
WHY did you despise me ? WHY did you betray your own heart , Cathy ? I have not one word of comfort . 
Yes , you may kiss me , and cry and wring out my kisses and tears they'll blight you they'll damn you . 
I have not broken your heart YOU have broken it and in breaking it , you have broken mine . 
So much the worse for me that I am strong . 
Let me alone , sobbed Catherine . 
'If I've done wrong , I'm dying for it . 
It is enough ! You left me too but I won't upbraid you ! I forgive you . 
Forgive me ! 'It is hard to forgive , and to look at those eyes , and feel those wasted hands , he answered . 
'Kiss me again and don't let me see your eyes ! I forgive what you have done to me . 
I love MY murderer but YOURS ! How can I ? They were silent their faces hid against each other , and washed by each other's tears . 
At least , I suppose the weeping was on both sides as it seemed Heathcliff could weep on a great occasion like this . 
'Service is over , I announced . 
'My master will be here in half an hour . 
Heathcliff groaned a curse , and strained Catherine closer she never moved . 
Ere long I perceived a group of the servants passing up the road towards the kitchen wing . 
Mr. Linton was not far behind he opened the gate himself and sauntered slowly up , probably enjoying the lovely afternoon that breathed as soft as summer . 
'Now he is here , I exclaimed . 
'For heaven's sake , hurry down ! You'll not meet any one on the front stairs . 
Do be quick and stay among the trees till he is fairly in . 
'I must go , Cathy , said Heathcliff , seeking to extricate himself from his companion's arms . 
'But if I live , I'll see you again before you are asleep . 
I won't stray five yards from your window . 
'You must not go ! she answered , holding him as firmly as her strength allowed . 
'You SHALL not , I tell you . 
'For one hour , he pleaded earnestly . 
'Not for one minute , she replied . 
'I MUST Linton will be up immediately , persisted the alarmed intruder . 
He would have risen , and unfixed her fingers by the act she clung fast , gasping there was mad resolution in her face . 
'Oh , don't , don't go . 
It is the last time ! Edgar will not hurt us . 
Heathcliff , I shall die ! I shall die ! 'Damn the fool ! There he is , cried Heathcliff , sinking back into his seat . 
'Hush , my darling ! Hush , hush , Catherine ! I'll stay . 
If he shot me so , I'd expire with a blessing on my lips . 
And there they were fast again . 
I heard my master mounting the stairs the cold sweat ran from my forehead I was horrified . 
'Are you going to listen to her ravings ? I said , passionately . 
'She does not know what she says . 
Will you ruin her , because she has not wit to help herself ? Get up ! You could be free instantly . 
That is the most diabolical deed that ever you did . 
We are all done for master , mistress , and servant . 
I wrung my hands , and cried out and Mr. Linton hastened his step at the noise . 
In the midst of my agitation , I was sincerely glad to observe that Catherine's arms had fallen relaxed , and her head hung down . 
'She's fainted , or dead , I thought 'so much the better . 
Far better that she should be dead , than lingering a burden and a misery maker to all about her . 
Edgar sprang to his unbidden guest , blanched with astonishment and rage . 
What he meant to do I cannot tell however , the other stopped all demonstrations , at once , by placing the lifeless looking form in his arms . 
'Look there ! he said . 
'Unless you be a fiend , help her first then you shall speak to me ! He walked into the parlour , and sat down . 
Edgar , in his anxiety for her , forgot her hated friend . 
I went , at the earliest opportunity , and besought him to depart affirming that Catherine was better , and he should hear from me in the morning how she passed the night . 
'I shall not refuse to go out of doors , he answered 'but I shall stay in the garden and , Nelly , mind you keep your word to morrow . 
I shall be under those larch trees . 
Mind ! or I pay another visit , whether Linton be in or not . 
He sent a rapid glance through the half open door of the chamber , and , ascertaining that what I stated was apparently true , delivered the house of his luckless presence . 
The latter's distraction at his bereavement is a subject too painful to be dwelt on its after effects showed how deep the sorrow sunk . 
A great addition , in my eyes , was his being left without an heir . 
the securing his estate to his own daughter , instead of his son's . 
An unwelcomed infant it was , poor thing ! It might have wailed out of life , and nobody cared a morsel , during those first hours of existence . 
We redeemed the neglect afterwards but its beginning was as friendless as its end is likely to be . 
Next morning bright and cheerful out of doors stole softened in through the blinds of the silent room , and suffused the couch and its occupant with a mellow , tender glow . 
Edgar Linton had his head laid on the pillow , and his eyes shut . 
Her brow smooth , her lids closed , her lips wearing the expression of a smile no angel in heaven could be more beautiful than she appeared . 
And I partook of the infinite calm in which she lay my mind was never in a holier frame than while I gazed on that untroubled image of Divine rest . 
One might doubt in seasons of cold reflection but not then , in the presence of her corpse . 
It asserted its own tranquillity , which seemed a pledge of equal quiet to its former inhabitant . 
Do you believe such people are happy in the other world , sir ? I'd give a great deal to know . 
I declined answering Mrs. Dean's question , which struck me as something heterodox . 
She proceeded Retracing the course of Catherine Linton , I fear we have no right to think she is but we'll leave her with her Maker . 
The master looked asleep , and I ventured soon after sunrise to quit the room and steal out to the pure refreshing air . 
The servants thought me gone to shake off the drowsiness of my protracted watch in reality , my chief motive was seeing Mr. Heathcliff . 
I wished , yet feared , to find him . 
I felt the terrible news must be told , and I longed to get it over but how to do it I did not know . 
They flew off at my approach , and he raised his eyes and spoke 'She's dead ! he said 'I've not waited for you to learn that . 
Put your handkerchief away don't snivel before me . 
'Yes , she's dead ! I answered , checking my sobs and drying my cheeks . 
'Did she die like a saint ? Come , give me a true history of the event . 
'Quietly as a lamb ! I answered , aloud . 
'Her senses never returned she recognised nobody from the time you left her , I said . 
'She lies with a sweet smile on her face and her latest ideas wandered back to pleasant early days . 
I know that ghosts HAVE wandered on earth . 
It hardly moved my compassion it appalled me still , I felt reluctant to quit him so . 
But the moment he recollected himself enough to notice me watching , he thundered a command for me to go , and I obeyed . 
He did not omit to avail himself of the opportunity , cautiously and briefly too cautiously to betray his presence by the slightest noise . 
Heathcliff had opened the trinket and cast out its contents , replacing them by a black lock of his own . 
I twisted the two , and enclosed them together . 
Her husband lies in the same spot now and they have each a simple headstone above , and a plain grey block at their feet , to mark the graves . 
CHAPTER XVII THAT Friday made the last of our fine days for a month . 
In the evening the weather broke the wind shifted from south to north east , and brought rain first , and then sleet and snow . 
With that the speaker came forward to the fire , panting and holding her hand to her side . 
'I have run the whole way from Wuthering Heights ! she continued , after a pause 'except where I've flown . 
I couldn't count the number of falls I've had . 
The intruder was Mrs. Heathcliff . 
'Certainly I shall , she said 'walking or riding yet I've no objection to dress myself decently . 
And ah , see how it flows down my neck now ! The fire does make it smart . 
We parted unreconciled , you remember , and I sha'n't forgive myself . 
'I'll smash it ! she continued , striking it with childish spite , 'and then I'll burn it ! and she took and dropped the misused article among the coals . 
'There ! he shall buy another , if he gets me back again . 
He'd be capable of coming to seek me , to tease Edgar . 
Drink your tea , and take breath , and give over laughing laughter is sadly out of place under this roof , and in your condition ! 'An undeniable truth , she replied . 
'Listen to that child ! It maintains a constant wail send it out of my hearing for an hour I sha'n't stay any longer . 
It is strong enough to make me feel pretty certain that he would not chase me over England , supposing I contrived a clear escape and therefore I must get quite away . 
I've recovered from my first desire to be killed by him I'd rather he'd kill himself ! He has extinguished my love effectually , and so I'm at my ease . 
Catherine had an awfully perverted taste to esteem him so dearly , knowing him so well . 
Monster ! would that he could be blotted out of creation , and out of my memory ! 'Hush , hush ! He's a human being , I said . 
'Be more charitable there are worse men than he is yet ! 'He's not a human being , she retorted 'and he has no claim on my charity . 
I gave him my heart , and he took and pinched it to death , and flung it back to me . 
'You asked , what has driven me to flight at last ? I was compelled to attempt it , because I had succeeded in rousing his rage a pitch above his malignity . 
Pulling out the nerves with red hot pincers requires more coolness than knocking on the head . 
He was worked up to forget the fiendish prudence he boasted of , and proceeded to murderous violence . 
'Yesterday , you know , Mr. Earnshaw should have been at the funeral . 
He kept himself sober for the purpose tolerably sober not going to bed mad at six o'clock and getting up drunk at twelve . 
'Heathcliff I shudder to name him ! has been a stranger in the house from last Sunday till to day . 
Whether the angels have fed him , or his kin beneath , I cannot tell but he has not eaten a meal with us for nearly a week . 
'I recovered spirits sufficient to bear Joseph's eternal lectures without weeping , and to move up and down the house less with the foot of a frightened thief than formerly . 
You wouldn't think that I should cry at anything Joseph could say but he and Hareton are detestable companions . 
He is quieter now than he used to be , if no one provokes him more sullen and depressed , and less furious . 
Joseph affirms he's sure he's an altered man that the Lord has touched his heart , and he is saved so as by fire . 
I'm puzzled to detect signs of the favourable change but it is not my business . 
'Yester evening I sat in my nook reading some old books till late on towards twelve . 
Hindley sat opposite , his head leant on his hand perhaps meditating on the same subject . 
He had ceased drinking at a point below irrationality , and had neither stirred nor spoken during two or three hours . 
Hareton and Joseph were probably fast asleep in bed . 
It was very , very sad and while I read I sighed , for it seemed as if all joy had vanished from the world , never to be restored . 
'The doleful silence was broken at length by the sound of the kitchen latch Heathcliff had returned from his watch earlier than usual owing , I suppose , to the sudden storm . 
That entrance was fastened , and we heard him coming round to get in by the other . 
I rose with an irrepressible expression of what I felt on my lips , which induced my companion , who had been staring towards the door , to turn and look at me . 
I'll keep him out five minutes , he exclaimed . 
You won't object ? No , you may keep him out the whole night for me , I answered . 
Do ! put the key in the look , and draw the bolts . 
Treachery and violence are a just return for treachery and violence ! cried Hindley . 
Mrs. Heathcliff , I'll ask you to do nothing but sit still and be dumb . 
I snatched it away , however , and seized his arm . 
I'll not hold my tongue ! I said you mustn't touch him . 
Let the door remain shut , and be quiet ! No ! I've formed my resolution , and by God I'll execute it ! cried the desperate being . 
I'll do you a kindness in spite of yourself , and Hareton justice ! And you needn't trouble your head to screen me Catherine is gone . 
The only resource left me was to run to a lattice and warn his intended victim of the fate which awaited him . 
You'd better seek shelter somewhere else to night ! I exclaimed , in rather a triumphant tone . 
Mr. Earnshaw has a mind to shoot you , if you persist in endeavouring to enter . 
You'd better open the door , you he answered , addressing me by some elegant term that I don't care to repeat . 
I shall not meddle in the matter , I retorted again . 
Come in and get shot , if you please . 
Earnshaw swore passionately at me affirming that I loved the villain yet and calling me all sorts of names for the base spirit I evinced . 
The stanchions stood too close to suffer his shoulders to follow , and I smiled , exulting in my fancied security . 
His hair and clothes were whitened with snow , and his sharp cannibal teeth , revealed by cold and wrath , gleamed through the dark . 
Isabella , let me in , or I'll make you repent ! he girned , as Joseph calls it . 
I cannot commit murder , I replied . 
Mr. Hindley stands sentinel with a knife and loaded pistol . 
Let me in by the kitchen door , he said . 
He's there , is he ? exclaimed my companion , rushing to the gap . 
If I can get my arm out I can hit him ! 'I'm afraid , Ellen , you'll set me down as really wicked but you don't know all , so don't judge . 
I wouldn't have aided or abetted an attempt on even HIS life for anything . 
'The charge exploded , and the knife , in springing back , closed into its owner's wrist . 
Heathcliff pulled it away by main force , slitting up the flesh as it passed on , and thrust it dripping into his pocket . 
He then took a stone , struck down the division between two windows , and sprang in . 
His adversary had fallen senseless with excessive pain and the flow of blood , that gushed from an artery or a large vein . 
The ruffian kicked and trampled on him , and dashed his head repeatedly against the flags , holding me with one hand , meantime , to prevent me summoning Joseph . 
He exerted preterhuman self denial in abstaining from finishing him completely but getting out of breath , he finally desisted , and dragged the apparently inanimate body on to the settle . 
There he tore off the sleeve of Earnshaw's coat , and bound up the wound with brutal roughness spitting and cursing during the operation as energetically as he had kicked before . 
And how the devil did you come to fasten me out , you toothless hound ? Don't stand muttering and mumbling there . 
Come , I'm not going to nurse him . 
I was in the condition of mind to be shocked at nothing in fact , I was as reckless as some malefactors show themselves at the foot of the gallows . 
Oh , I forgot you , said the tyrant . 
Mr. Linton was a magistrate , and though he had fifty wives dead , he should inquire into this . 
It required a great deal of labour to satisfy the old man that Heathcliff was not the aggressor especially with my hardly wrung replies . 
However , Mr. Earnshaw soon convinced him that he was alive still Joseph hastened to administer a dose of spirits , and by their succour his master presently regained motion and consciousness . 
To my joy , he left us , after giving this judicious counsel , and Hindley stretched himself on the hearthstone . 
I departed to my own room , marvelling that I had escaped so easily . 
Neither appeared inclined to dine , and , having waited till all was cold on the table , I commenced alone . 
After I had done , I ventured on the unusual liberty of drawing near the fire , going round Earnshaw's seat , and kneeling in the corner beside him . 
'Heathcliff did not glance my way , and I gazed up , and contemplated his features almost as confidently as if they had been turned to stone . 
Had it been another , I would have covered my face in the presence of such grief . 
'Fie , fie , Miss ! I interrupted . 
'One might suppose you had never opened a Bible in your life . 
If God afflict your enemies , surely that ought to suffice you . 
Oh , I owe him so much . 
On only one condition can I hope to forgive him . 
It is , if I may take an eye for an eye , a tooth for a tooth for every wrench of agony return a wrench reduce him to my level . 
As he was the first to injure , make him the first to implore pardon and then why then , Ellen , I might show you some generosity . 
But it is utterly impossible I can ever be revenged , and therefore I cannot forgive him . 
Hindley wanted some water , and I handed him a glass , and asked him how he was . 
Not as ill as I wish , he replied . 
Catherine used to boast that she stood between you and bodily harm she meant that certain persons would not hurt you for fear of offending her . 
And his mouth watered to tear you with his teeth because he's only half man not so much , and the rest fiend . 
Nay , it's enough that he has murdered one of you , I observed aloud . 
At the Grange , every one knows your sister would have been living now had it not been for Mr. Heathcliff . 
After all , it is preferable to be hated than loved by him . 
When I recollect how happy we were how happy Catherine was before he came I'm fit to curse the day . 
'Most likely , Heathcliff noticed more the truth of what was said , than the spirit of the person who said it . 
His attention was roused , I saw , for his eyes rained down tears among the ashes , and he drew his breath in suffocating sighs . 
I stared full at him , and laughed scornfully . 
Get up , and begone out of my sight , said the mourner . 
'I guessed he uttered those words , at least , though his voice was hardly intelligible . 
I beg your pardon , I replied . 
But I loved Catherine too and her brother requires attendance , which , for her sake , I shall supply . 
The last glimpse I caught of him was a furious rush on his part , checked by the embrace of his host and both fell locked together on the hearth . 
And far rather would I be condemned to a perpetual dwelling in the infernal regions than , even for one night , abide beneath the roof of Wuthering Heights again . 
She was driven away , never to revisit this neighbourhood but a regular correspondence was established between her and my master when things were more settled . 
I believe her new abode was in the south , near London there she had a son born a few months subsequent to her escape . 
He was christened Linton , and , from the first , she reported him to be an ailing , peevish creature . 
Mr. Heathcliff , meeting me one day in the village , inquired where she lived . 
He remarked that it was not of any moment , only she must beware of coming to her brother she should not be with him , if he had to keep her himself . 
Though I would give no information , he discovered , through some of the other servants , both her place of residence and the existence of the child . 
Still , he didn't molest her for which forbearance she might thank his aversion , I suppose . 
'But I'll have it , he said , 'when I want it . 
They may reckon on that ! Fortunately its mother died before the time arrived some thirteen years after the decease of Catherine , when Linton was twelve , or a little more . 
On the day succeeding Isabella's unexpected visit I had no opportunity of speaking to my master he shunned conversation , and was fit for discussing nothing . 
So deep and sensitive was his aversion , that he refrained from going anywhere where he was likely to see or hear of Heathcliff . 
But he was too good to be thoroughly unhappy long . 
HE didn't pray for Catherine's soul to haunt him . 
Time brought resignation , and a melancholy sweeter than common joy . 
He recalled her memory with ardent , tender love , and hopeful aspiring to the better world where he doubted not she was gone . 
And he had earthly consolation and affections also . 
It was named Catherine but he never called it the name in full , as he had never called the first Catherine short probably because Heathcliff had a habit of doing so . 
I used to draw a comparison between him and Hindley Earnshaw , and perplex myself to explain satisfactorily why their conduct was so opposite in similar circumstances . 
They had both been fond husbands , and were both attached to their children and I could not see how they shouldn't both have taken the same road , for good or evil . 
But , I thought in my mind , Hindley , with apparently the stronger head , has shown himself sadly the worse and the weaker man . 
Linton , on the contrary , displayed the true courage of a loyal and faithful soul he trusted God and God comforted him . 
One hoped , and the other despaired they chose their own lots , and were righteously doomed to endure them . 
The end of Earnshaw was what might have been expected it followed fast on his sister's there were scarcely six months between them . 
Mr. Kenneth came to announce the event to my master . 
Who's given us the slip now , do you think ? 'Who ? I asked in a flurry . 
'Why , guess ! he returned , dismounting , and slinging his bridle on a hook by the door . 
'And nip up the corner of your apron I'm certain you'll need it . 
'Not Mr. Heathcliff , surely ? I exclaimed . 
'What ! would you have tears for him ? said the doctor . 
'No , Heathcliff's a tough young fellow he looks blooming to day . 
He's rapidly regaining flesh since he lost his better half . 
'Who is it , then , Mr. Kenneth ? I repeated impatiently . 
'Hindley Earnshaw ! Your old friend Hindley , he replied , 'and my wicked gossip though he's been too wild for me this long while . 
There ! I said we should draw water . 
But cheer up ! He died true to his character drunk as a lord . 
Poor lad ! I'm sorry , too . 
One can't help missing an old companion though he had the worst tricks with him that ever man imagined , and has done me many a rascally turn . 
He was unfit for attending to such matters then , but he bid me speak to his lawyer and at length permitted me to go . 
His lawyer had been Earnshaw's also I called at the village , and asked him to accompany me . 
He shook his head , and advised that Heathcliff should be let alone affirming , if the truth were known , Hareton would be found little else than a beggar . 
When I reached the Heights , I explained that I had come to see everything carried on decently and Joseph , who appeared in sufficient distress , expressed satisfaction at my presence . 
Mr. Heathcliff said he did not perceive that I was wanted but I might stay and order the arrangements for the funeral , if I chose . 
'Correctly , he remarked , 'that fool's body should he buried at the cross roads , without ceremony of any kind . 
Mr. Heathcliff said I might have my own way there too only , he desired me to remember that the money for the whole affair came out of his pocket . 
He maintained a hard , careless deportment , indicative of neither joy nor sorrow if anything , it expressed a flinty gratification at a piece of difficult work successfully executed . 
I observed once , indeed , something like exultation in his aspect it was just when the people were bearing the coffin from the house . 
There is nothing in the world less yours than he is ! 'Does Linton say so ? he demanded . 
'Of course he has ordered me to take him , I replied . 
I don't engage to let Hareton go undisputed but I'll be pretty sure to make the other come ! Remember to tell him . 
This hint was enough to bind our hands . 
I repeated its substance on my return and Edgar Linton , little interested at the commencement , spoke no more of interfering . 
I'm not aware that he could have done it to any purpose , had he been ever so willing . 
Her spirit was high , though not rough , and qualified by a heart sensitive and lively to excess in its affections . 
However , it must be acknowledged , she had faults to foil her gifts . 
A propensity to be saucy was one and a perverse will , that indulged children invariably acquire , whether they be good tempered or cross . 
He took her education entirely on himself , and made it an amusement . 
Fortunately , curiosity and a quick intellect made her an apt scholar she learned rapidly and eagerly , and did honour to his teaching . 
Till she reached the age of thirteen she had not once been beyond the range of the park by herself . 
Mr. Linton would take her with him a mile or so outside , on rare occasions but he trusted her to no one else . 
Gimmerton was an unsubstantial name in her ears the chapel , the only building she had approached or entered , except her own home . 
Wuthering Heights and Mr. Heathcliff did not exist for her she was a perfect recluse and , apparently , perfectly contented . 
'And what are those golden rocks like when you stand under them ? she once asked . 
The abrupt descent of Penistone Crags particularly attracted her notice especially when the setting sun shone on it and the topmost heights , and the whole extent of landscape besides lay in shadow . 
I explained that they were bare masses of stone , with hardly enough earth in their clefts to nourish a stunted tree . 
'And why are they bright so long after it is evening here ? she pursued . 
'Because they are a great deal higher up than we are , replied I 'you could not climb them , they are too high and steep . 
'Then I can go , too , when I am a woman . 
Has papa been , Ellen ? 'Papa would tell you , Miss , I answered , hastily , 'that they are not worth the trouble of visiting . 
The moors , where you ramble with him , are much nicer and Thrushcross Park is the finest place in the world . 
'But I know the park , and I don't know those , she murmured to herself . 
'And I should delight to look round me from the brow of that tallest point my little pony Minny shall take me some time . 
But Miss Catherine measured her age by months , and , 'Now , am I old enough to go to Penistone Crags ? was the constant question in her mouth . 
The road thither wound close by Wuthering Heights . 
Edgar had not the heart to pass it so she received as constantly the answer , 'Not yet , love not yet . 
I said Mrs. Heathcliff lived above a dozen years after quitting her husband . 
Her family were of a delicate constitution she and Edgar both lacked the ruddy health that you will generally meet in these parts . 
He was away three weeks . 
I did not fear her breaking bounds because the gates were generally looked , and I thought she would scarcely venture forth alone , if they had stood wide open . 
Unluckily , my confidence proved misplaced . 
The naughty thing never made her appearance at tea . 
There was a labourer working at a fence round a plantation , on the borders of the grounds . 
I inquired of him if he had seen our young lady . 
You may guess how I felt at hearing this news . 
It struck me directly she must have started for Penistone Crags . 
'What will become of her ? I ejaculated , pushing through a gap which the man was repairing , and making straight to the high road . 
I walked as if for a wager , mile after mile , till a turn brought me in view of the Heights but no Catherine could I detect , far or near . 
I opened the wicket and ran to the door , knocking vehemently for admittance . 
A woman whom I knew , and who formerly lived at Gimmerton , answered she had been servant there since the death of Mr. Earnshaw . 
'Ah , said she , 'you are come a seeking your little mistress ! Don't be frightened . 
She's here safe but I'm glad it isn't the master . 
'He is not at home then , is he ? I panted , quite breathless with quick walking and alarm . 
'No , no , she replied 'both he and Joseph are off , and I think they won't return this hour or more . 
Step in and rest you a bit . 
I entered , and beheld my stray lamb seated on the hearth , rocking herself in a little chair that had been her mother's when a child . 
'Very well , Miss ! I exclaimed , concealing my joy under an angry countenance . 
'This is your last ride , till papa comes back . 
I'll not trust you over the threshold again , you naughty , naughty girl ! 'Aha , Ellen ! she cried , gaily , jumping up and running to my side . 
'I shall have a pretty story to tell to night and so you've found me out . 
'What have I done ? sobbed she , instantly checked . 
'Papa charged me nothing he'll not scold me , Ellen he's never cross , like you ! 'Come , come ! I repeated . 
Now , let us have no petulance . 
'Nay , said the servant , 'don't be hard on the bonny lass , Mrs. Dean . 
We made her stop she'd fain have ridden forwards , afeard you should be uneasy . 
Hareton offered to go with her , and I thought he should it's a wild road over the hills . 
Hareton , during the discussion , stood with his hands in his pockets , too awkward to speak though he looked as if he did not relish my intrusion . 
'How long am I to wait ? I continued , disregarding the woman's interference . 
'It will be dark in ten minutes . 
Where is the pony , Miss Cathy ? And where is Phoenix ? I shall leave you , unless you be quick so please yourself . 
'The pony is in the yard , she replied , 'and Phoenix is shut in there . 
He's bitten and so is Charlie . 
I was going to tell you all about it but you are in a bad temper , and don't deserve to hear . 
'It's YOUR father's , isn't it ? said she , turning to Hareton . 
'Nay , he replied , looking down , and blushing bashfully . 
He could not stand a steady gaze from her eyes , though they were just his own . 
'Whose then your master's ? she asked . 
He coloured deeper , with a different feeling , muttered an oath , and turned away . 
'Who is his master ? continued the tiresome girl , appealing to me . 
'He talked about our house , and our folk . 
I thought he had been the owner's son . 
And he never said Miss he should have done , shouldn't he , if he's a servant ? Hareton grew black as a thunder cloud at this childish speech . 
I silently shook my questioner , and at last succeeded in equipping her for departure . 
'Now , get my horse , she said , addressing her unknown kinsman as she would one of the stable boys at the Grange . 
'And you may come with me . 
'I'll see thee damned before I be THY servant ! growled the lad . 
You'll see me WHAT ! asked Catherine in surprise . 
'Damned thou saucy witch ! he replied . 
'There , Miss Cathy ! you see you have got into pretty company , I interposed . 
'Nice words to be used to a young lady ! Pray don't begin to dispute with him . 
Come , let us seek for Minny ourselves , and begone . 
Now , then ! Hareton did not appear to feel this threat so the tears sprang into her eyes with indignation . 
Though Mr. Hareton , there , be not the master's son , he's your cousin and I was never hired to serve you . 
'HE my cousin ! cried Cathy , with a scornful laugh . 
'Yes , indeed , responded her reprover . 
'Oh , Ellen ! don't let them say such things , she pursued in great trouble . 
'Papa is gone to fetch my cousin from London my cousin is a gentleman's son . 
That my she stopped , and wept outright upset at the bare notion of relationship with such a clown . 
'He's not he's not my cousin , Ellen ! she went on , gathering fresh grief from reflection , and flinging herself into my arms for refuge from the idea . 
Pausing in her lamentations , she surveyed him with a glance of awe and horror , then burst forth anew . 
Still , I thought I could detect in his physiognomy a mind owning better qualities than his father ever possessed . 
If the lad swore , he wouldn't correct him nor however culpably he behaved . 
Hareton's blood would be required at his hands and there lay immense consolation in that thought . 
I don't pretend to be intimately acquainted with the mode of living customary in those days at Wuthering Heights I only speak from hearsay for I saw little . 
The master was too gloomy to seek companionship with any people , good or bad and he is yet . 
This , however , is not making progress with my story . 
Miss Cathy rejected the peace offering of the terrier , and demanded her own dogs , Charlie and Phoenix . 
They came limping and hanging their heads and we set out for home , sadly out of sorts , every one of us . 
They had a smart battle , before their owners could separate them that formed an introduction . 
Catherine told Hareton who she was , and where she was going and asked him to show her the way finally , beguiling him to accompany her . 
He opened the mysteries of the Fairy Cave , and twenty other queer places . 
But , being in disgrace , I was not favoured with a description of the interesting objects she saw . 
After all , she was a sweet little girl . 
Catherine ran wild with joy at the idea of welcoming her father back and indulged most sanguine anticipations of the innumerable excellencies of her 'real' cousin . 
The evening of their expected arrival came . 
'Linton is just six months younger than I am , she chattered , as we strolled leisurely over the swells and hollows of mossy turf , under shadow of the trees . 
I have it carefully preserved in a little glass box and I've often thought what a pleasure it would be to see its owner . 
Oh ! I am happy and papa , dear , dear papa ! Come , Ellen , let us run ! come , run . 
'How long they are ! she exclaimed . 
At length her suspense was ended the travelling carriage rolled in sight . 
Miss Cathy shrieked and stretched out her arms as soon as she caught her father's face looking from the window . 
He descended , nearly as eager as herself and a considerable interval elapsed ere they had a thought to spare for any but themselves . 
While they exchanged caresses I took a peep in to see after Linton . 
He was asleep in a corner , wrapped in a warm , fur lined cloak , as if it had been winter . 
The latter saw me looking and having shaken hands , advised me to close the door , and leave him undisturbed for the journey had fatigued him . 
Cathy would fain have taken one glance , but her father told her to come , and they walked together up the park , while I hastened before to prepare the servants . 
The carriage stopped and the sleeper being roused , was lifted to the ground by his uncle . 
'This is your cousin Cathy , Linton , he said , putting their little hands together . 
'She's fond of you already and mind you don't grieve her by crying to night . 
Try to be cheerful now the travelling is at an end , and you have nothing to do but rest and amuse yourself as you please . 
'Let me go to bed , then , answered the boy , shrinking from Catherine's salute and he put his fingers to remove incipient tears . 
'Come , come , there's a good child , I whispered , leading him in . 
All three entered , and mounted to the library , where tea was laid ready . 
I proceeded to remove Linton's cap and mantle , and placed him on a chair by the table but he was no sooner seated than he began to cry afresh . 
My master inquired what was the matter . 
'I can't sit on a chair , sobbed the boy . 
'Go to the sofa , then , and Ellen shall bring you some tea , answered his uncle patiently . 
He had been greatly tried , during the journey , I felt convinced , by his fretful ailing charge . 
Linton slowly trailed himself off , and lay down . 
Cathy carried a footstool and her cup to his side . 
This pleased him , for he was not much better he dried his eyes , and lightened into a faint smile . 
'Oh , he'll do very well , said the master to me , after watching them a minute . 
'Very well , if we can keep him , Ellen . 
The company of a child of his own age will instil new spirit into him soon , and by wishing for strength he'll gain it . 
'Ay , if we can keep him ! I mused to myself and sore misgivings came over me that there was slight hope of that . 
And then , I thought , how ever will that weakling live at Wuthering Heights ? Between his father and Hareton , what playmates and instructors they'll be . 
Our doubts were presently decided even earlier than I expected . 
'I shall ask him what he wants first , I said , in considerable trepidation . 
'A very unlikely hour to be troubling people , and the instant they have returned from a long journey . 
I don't think the master can see him . 
Joseph had advanced through the kitchen as I uttered these words , and now presented himself in the hall . 
'Good evening , Joseph , I said , coldly . 
'What business brings you here to night ? 'It's Maister Linton I mun spake to , he answered , waving me disdainfully aside . 
Linton is going to bed unless you have something particular to say , I'm sure he won't hear it now , I continued . 
'You had better sit down in there , and entrust your message to me . 
'Which is his rahm ? pursued the fellow , surveying the range of closed doors . 
No plan offered itself the very exhibition of any desire to keep him would have rendered the claimant more peremptory there was nothing left but to resign him . 
However , he was not going to rouse him from his sleep . 
'Tell Mr. Heathcliff , he answered calmly , 'that his son shall come to Wuthering Heights to morrow . 
He is in bed , and too tired to go the distance now . 
You may also tell him that the mother of Linton desired him to remain under my guardianship and , at present , his health is very precarious . 
'Noa ! said Joseph , giving a thud with his prop on the floor , and assuming an authoritative air . 
'Noa ! that means naught . 
'Walk down stairs at once , and repeat to your master what I have said . 
Ellen , show him down . 
Go And , aiding the indignant elder with a lift by the arm , he rid the room of him and closed the door . 
'Varrah weell ! shouted Joseph , as he slowly drew off . 
Merely tell her his father sent for him suddenly , and he has been obliged to leave us . 
'My father ! he cried , in strange perplexity . 
'Mamma never told me I had a father . 
Where does he live ? I'd rather stay with uncle . 
'He lives a little distance from the Grange , I replied 'just beyond those hills not so far , but you may walk over here when you get hearty . 
And you should be glad to go home , and to see him . 
You must try to love him , as you did your mother , and then he will love you . 
'But why have I not heard of him before ? asked Linton . 
'And why didn't mamma speak to me about him ? persevered the child . 
'She often talked of uncle , and I learnt to love him long ago . 
How am I to love papa ? I don't know him . 
'Oh , all children love their parents , I said . 
'Your mother , perhaps , thought you would want to be with him if she mentioned him often to you . 
An early ride on such a beautiful morning is much preferable to an hour's more sleep . 
'Is SHE to go with us , he demanded , 'the little girl I saw yesterday ? 'Not now , replied I. 'Is uncle ? he continued . 
'No , I shall be your companion there , I said . 
Linton sank back on his pillow and fell into a brown study . 
'I won't go without uncle , he cried at length 'I can't tell where you mean to take me . 
The pure heather scented air , the bright sunshine , and the gentle canter of Minny , relieved his despondency after a while . 
He began to put questions concerning his new home , and its inhabitants , with greater interest and liveliness . 
You will , perhaps , think the building old and dark at first though it is a respectable house the next best in the neighbourhood . 
And you will have such nice rambles on the moors . 
'And what is my father like ? he asked . 
'Is he as young and handsome as uncle ? 'He's as young , said I 'but he has black hair and eyes , and looks sterner and he is taller and bigger altogether . 
'Black hair and eyes ! mused Linton . 
'How strange that he should never come to see mamma and me ! he murmured . 
'Has he ever seen me ? If he has , I must have been a baby . 
It is probable Mr. Heathcliff proposed going from summer to summer , but never found a convenient opportunity and now it is too late . 
Don't trouble him with questions on the subject it will disturb him , for no good . 
The boy was fully occupied with his own cogitations for the remainder of the ride , till we halted before the farmhouse garden gate . 
I watched to catch his impressions in his countenance . 
But he had sense to postpone complaining there might be compensation within . 
Before he dismounted , I went and opened the door . 
It was half past six the family had just finished breakfast the servant was clearing and wiping down the table . 
Joseph stood by his master's chair telling some tale concerning a lame horse and Hareton was preparing for the hayfield . 
'Hallo , Nelly ! said Mr. Heathcliff , when he saw me . 
'I feared I should have to come down and fetch my property myself . 
You've brought it , have you ? Let us see what we can make of it . 
He got up and strode to the door Hareton and Joseph followed in gaping curiosity . 
Poor Linton ran a frightened eye over the faces of the three . 
'God ! what a beauty ! what a lovely , charming thing ! he exclaimed . 
But he clung to me with growing trepidation and on Mr. Heathcliff's taking a seat and bidding him 'come hither' he hid his face on my shoulder and wept . 
'Tut , tut ! said Heathcliff , stretching out a hand and dragging him roughly between his knees , and then holding up his head by the chin . 
'Do you know me ? asked Heathcliff , having satisfied himself that the limbs were all equally frail and feeble . 
'No , said Linton , with a gaze of vacant fear . 
'You've heard of me , I daresay ? 'No , he replied again . 
Now , don't wince , and colour up ! Though it is something to see you have not white blood . 
Be a good lad and I'll do for you . 
Nelly , if you be tired you may sit down if not , get home again . 
I guess you'll report what you hear and see to the cipher at the Grange and this thing won't be settled while you linger about it . 
'I'll be very kind to him , you needn't fear , he said , laughing . 
'Only nobody else must be kind to him I'm jealous of monopolising his affection . 
And , to begin my kindness , Joseph , bring the lad some breakfast . 
Hareton , you infernal calf , begone to your work . 
Besides , he's MINE , and I want the triumph of seeing MY descendant fairly lord of their estates my child hiring their children to till their fathers' lands for wages . 
I've ordered Hareton to obey him and in fact I've arranged everything with a view to preserve the superior and the gentleman in him , above his associates . 
'Cannot ate it ? repeated he , peering in Linton's face , and subduing his voice to a whisper , for fear of being overheard . 
Joseph snatched up the food indignantly , and brought it to us . 
'Is there aught ails th' victuals ? he asked , thrusting the tray under Heathcliff's nose . 
'What should ail them ? he said . 
'Wah ! answered Joseph , 'yon dainty chap says he cannut ate 'em . 
But I guess it's raight ! His mother wer just soa we wer a'most too mucky to sow t' corn for makking her breead . 
'Don't mention his mother to me , said the master , angrily . 
'Get him something that he can eat , that's all . 
What is his usual food , Nelly ? I suggested boiled milk or tea and the housekeeper received instructions to prepare some . 
Come , I reflected , his father's selfishness may contribute to his comfort . 
He perceives his delicate constitution , and the necessity of treating him tolerably . 
I'll console Mr. Edgar by acquainting him with the turn Heathcliff's humour has taken . 
Having no excuse for lingering longer , I slipped out , while Linton was engaged in timidly rebuffing the advances of a friendly sheep dog . 
I mounted Minny , and urged her to a trot and so my brief guardianship ended . 
I could gather from her that he continued in weak health , and was a tiresome inmate . 
'And I never know such a fainthearted creature , added the woman 'nor one so careful of hisseln . 
He WILL go on , if I leave the window open a bit late in the evening . 
That housekeeper left , if I recollect rightly , two years after he came and another , whom I did not know , was her successor she lives there still . 
Time wore on at the Grange in its former pleasant way till Miss Cathy reached sixteen . 
On the anniversary of her birth we never manifested any signs of rejoicing , because it was also the anniversary of my late mistress's death . 
Her father invariably spent that day alone in the library and walked , at dusk , as far as Gimmerton kirkyard , where he would frequently prolong his stay beyond midnight . 
Therefore Catherine was thrown on her own resources for amusement . 
'So make haste , Ellen ! she cried . 
'I know where I wish to go where a colony of moor game are settled I want to see whether they have made their nests yet . 
'That must be a good distance up , I answered 'they don't breed on the edge of the moor . 
'No , it's not , she said . 
'I've gone very near with papa . 
I put on my bonnet and sallied out , thinking nothing more of the matter . 
She was a happy creature , and an angel , in those days . 
It's a pity she could not be content . 
'Well , said I , 'where are your moor game , Miss Cathy ? We should be at them the Grange park fence is a great way off now . 
'Oh , a little further only a little further , Ellen , was her answer , continually . 
'Climb to that hillock , pass that bank , and by the time you reach the other side I shall have raised the birds . 
Cathy had been caught in the fact of plundering , or , at least , hunting out the nests of the grouse . 
The Heights were Heathcliff's land , and he was reproving the poacher . 
'I've neither taken any nor found any , she said , as I toiled to them , expanding her hands in corroboration of the statement . 
'I didn't mean to take them but papa told me there were quantities up here , and I wished to see the eggs . 
Heathcliff glanced at me with an ill meaning smile , expressing his acquaintance with the party , and , consequently , his malevolence towards it , and demanded who 'papa' was ? 'Mr . 
Linton of Thrushcross Grange , she replied . 
'I thought you did not know me , or you wouldn't have spoken in that way . 
'You suppose papa is highly esteemed and respected , then ? he said , sarcastically . 
'And what are you ? inquired Catherine , gazing curiously on the speaker . 
'That man I've seen before . 
'Miss Cathy , I interrupted , 'it will be three hours instead of one that we are out , presently . 
We really must go back . 
'No , that man is not my son , answered Heathcliff , pushing me aside . 
Will you just turn this nab of heath , and walk into my house ? You'll get home earlier for the ease and you shall receive a kind welcome . 
I whispered Catherine that she mustn't , on any account , accede to the proposal it was entirely out of the question . 
'Why ? she asked , aloud . 
'I'm tired of running , and the ground is dewy I can't sit here . 
Let us go , Ellen . 
Besides , he says I have seen his son . 
He's mistaken , I think but I guess where he lives at the farmhouse I visited in coming from Penistone' Crags . 
Don't you ? 'I do . 
Come , Nelly , hold your tongue it will he a treat for her to look in on us . 
Hareton , get forwards with the lass . 
You shall walk with me , Nelly . 
Her appointed companion did not pretend to escort her he shied off by the road side , and vanished . 
Heathcliff , it's very wrong , I continued 'you know you mean no good . 
And there she'll see Linton , and all will be told as soon as ever we return and I shall have the blame . 
'I want her to see Linton , he answered 'he's looking better these few days it's not often he's fit to be seen . 
'My design is as honest as possible . 
I'll inform you of its whole scope , he said . 
'That the two cousins may fall in love , and get married . 
I'm acting generously to your master his young chit has no expectations , and should she second my wishes she'll be provided for at once as joint successor with Linton . 
'If Linton died , I answered , 'and his life is quite uncertain , Catherine would be the heir . 
'No , she would not , he said . 
'And I'm resolved she shall never approach your house with me again , I returned , as we reached the gate , where Miss Cathy waited our coming . 
Heathcliff bade me be quiet and , preceding us up the path , hastened to open the door . 
Linton stood on the hearth . 
He had been out walking in the fields , for his cap was on , and he was calling to Joseph to bring him dry shoes . 
He had grown tall of his age , still wanting some months of sixteen . 
His features were pretty yet , and his eye and complexion brighter than I remembered them , though with merely temporary lustre borrowed from the salubrious air and genial sun . 
'Now , who is that ? asked Mr. Heathcliff , turning to Cathy . 
'Can you tell ? 'Your son ? she said , having doubtfully surveyed , first one and then the other . 
'Yes , yes , answered he 'but is this the only time you have beheld him ? Think ! Ah ! you have a short memory . 
Catherine had reached her full height her figure was both plump and slender , elastic as steel , and her whole aspect sparkling with health and spirits . 
Linton's looks and movements were very languid , and his form extremely slight but there was a grace in his manner that mitigated these defects , and rendered him not unpleasing . 
'And you are my uncle , then ! she cried , reaching up to salute him . 
'I thought I liked you , though you were cross at first . 
'There damn it ! If you have any kisses to spare , give them to Linton they are thrown away on me . 
'Naughty Ellen ! exclaimed Catherine , flying to attack me next with her lavish caresses . 
'Wicked Ellen ! to try to hinder me from entering . 
But I'll take this walk every morning in future may I , uncle ? and sometimes bring papa . 
Won't you be glad to see us ? 'Of course , replied the uncle , with a hardly suppressed grimace , resulting from his deep aversion to both the proposed visitors . 
'But stay , he continued , turning towards the young lady . 
'Now I think of it , I'd better tell you . 
Therefore , you must not mention it , unless you be careless of seeing your cousin hereafter you may come , if you will , but you must not mention it . 
'Why did you quarrel ? asked Catherine , considerably crestfallen . 
'He thought me too poor to wed his sister , answered Heathcliff , 'and was grieved that I got her his pride was hurt , and he'll never forgive it . 
'That's wrong ! said the young lady 'some time I'll tell him so . 
But Linton and I have no share in your quarrel . 
I'll not come here , then he shall come to the Grange . 
'It will be too far for me , murmured her cousin 'to walk four miles would kill me . 
No , come here , Miss Catherine , now and then not every morning , but once or twice a week . 
The father launched towards his son a glance of bitter contempt . 
'I am afraid , Nelly , I shall lose my labour , he muttered to me . 
'Miss Catherine , as the ninny calls her , will discover his value , and send him to the devil . 
But I think he's safe from HER love . 
I'll pit him against that paltry creature , unless it bestir itself briskly . 
We calculate it will scarcely last till it is eighteen . 
Oh , confound the vapid thing ! He's absorbed in drying his feet , and never looks at her . 
Linton ! 'Yes , father , answered the boy . 
'Wouldn't you rather sit here ? asked Linton , addressing Cathy in a tone which expressed reluctance to move again . 
'I don't know , she replied , casting a longing look to the door , and evidently eager to be active . 
He kept his seat , and shrank closer to the fire . 
Heathcliff rose , and went into the kitchen , and from thence to the yard , calling out for Hareton . 
Hareton responded , and presently the two re entered . 
The young man had been washing himself , as was visible by the glow on his cheeks and his wetted hair . 
'Oh , I'll ask YOU , uncle , cried Miss Cathy , recollecting the housekeeper's assertion . 
'That is not my cousin , is he ? 'Yes , he , replied , 'your mother's nephew . 
Don't you like him ! Catherine looked queer . 
'Is he not a handsome lad ? he continued . 
The uncivil little thing stood on tiptoe , and whispered a sentence in Heathcliff's ear . 
He laughed Hareton darkened I perceived he was very sensitive to suspected slights , and had obviously a dim notion of his inferiority . 
But his master or guardian chased the frown by exclaiming 'You'll be the favourite among us , Hareton ! She says you are a What was it ? Well , something very flattering . 
Here ! you go with her round the farm . 
Be off , and entertain her as nicely as you can . 
He watched the couple walking past the window . 
Earnshaw had his countenance completely averted from his companion . 
He seemed studying the familiar landscape with a stranger's and an artist's interest . 
Catherine took a sly look at him , expressing small admiration . 
She then turned her attention to seeking out objects of amusement for herself , and tripped merrily on , lilting a tune to supply the lack of conversation . 
'I've tied his tongue , observed Heathcliff . 
'He'll not venture a single syllable all the time ! Nelly , you recollect meat his age nay , some years younger . 
Did I ever look so stupid so gaumless , as Joseph calls it ? 'Worse , I replied , 'because more sullen with it . 
'I've a pleasure in him , he continued , reflecting aloud . 
'He has satisfied my expectations . 
If he were a born fool I should not enjoy it half so much . 
But he's no fool and I can sympathise with all his feelings , having felt them myself . 
I know what he suffers now , for instance , exactly it is merely a beginning of what he shall suffer , though . 
And he'll never be able to emerge from his bathos of coarseness and ignorance . 
I've got him faster than his scoundrel of a father secured me , and lower for he takes a pride in his brutishness . 
I've taught him to scorn everything extra animal as silly and weak . 
Don't you think Hindley would be proud of his son , if he could see him ? almost as proud as I am of mine . 
But there's this difference one is gold put to the use of paving stones , and the other is tin polished to ape a service of silver . 
MINE has nothing valuable about it yet I shall have the merit of making it go as far as such poor stuff can go . 
HIS had first rate qualities , and they are lost rendered worse than unavailing . 
I have nothing to regret he would have more than any but I are aware of . 
And the best of it is , Hareton is damnably fond of me ! You'll own that I've outmatched Hindley there . 
I made no reply , because I saw that he expected none . 
His father remarked the restless glances wandering to the window , and the hand irresolutely extended towards his cap . 
'Get up , you idle boy ! he exclaimed , with assumed heartiness . 
'Away after them ! they are just at the corner , by the stand of hives . 
Linton gathered his energies , and left the hearth . 
'It's some damnable writing , he answered . 
'Can't read it ? cried Catherine 'I can read it it's English . 
But I want to know why it is there . 
Linton giggled the first appearance of mirth he had exhibited . 
'He does not know his letters , he said to his cousin . 
I can hardly understand him , I'm sure ! Linton repeated his laugh , and glanced at Hareton tauntingly who certainly did not seem quite clear of comprehension at that moment . 
'There's nothing the matter but laziness is there , Earnshaw ? he said . 
'My cousin fancies you are an idiot . 
There you experience the consequence of scorning book larning , as you would say . 
Have you noticed , Catherine , his frightful Yorkshire pronunciation ? 'Why , where the devil is the use on't ? growled Hareton , more ready in answering his daily companion . 
'Where is the use of the devil in that sentence ? tittered Linton . 
'Papa told you not to say any bad words , and you can't open your mouth without one . 
I began to dislike , more than to compassionate Linton , and to excuse his father in some measure for holding him cheap . 
We stayed till afternoon I could not tear Miss Cathy away sooner but happily my master had not quitted his apartment , and remained ignorant of our prolonged absence . 
And so she ran on , till I relinquished the endeavour to convince her of her mistake . 
She did not mention the visit that night , because she did not see Mr. Linton . 
'Papa ! she exclaimed , after the morning's salutations , 'guess whom I saw yesterday , in my walk on the moors . 
'Then you believe I care more for my own feelings than yours , Cathy ? he said . 
I meant to explain this some time as you grew older , and I'm sorry I delayed it . 
YOU are the one to be blamed he is willing to let us be friends , at least Linton and I and you are not . 
'She might have been living yet , if it had not been for him ! was his constant bitter reflection and , in his eyes , Heathcliff seemed a murderer . 
'Oh , fie , silly child ! I exclaimed . 
'If you had any real griefs you'd be ashamed to waste a tear on this little contrariety . 
You never had one shadow of substantial sorrow , Miss Catherine . 
'I'm not crying for myself , Ellen , she answered , 'it's for him . 
Linton will conjecture how it is , and trouble himself no further about you . 
'But may I not write a note to tell him why I cannot come ? she asked , rising to her feet . 
May I not , Ellen ? 'No , indeed ! no , indeed ! replied I with decision . 
'Then he would write to you , and there'd never be an end of it . 
No , Miss Catherine , the acquaintance must be dropped entirely so papa expects , and I shall see that it is done . 
'But how can one little note ? she recommenced , putting on an imploring countenance . 
'We'll not begin with your little notes . 
'You'll get nobody to take that , Catherine , I said , 'if you write it and at present I shall put out your candle . 
The letter was finished and forwarded to its destination by a milk fetcher who came from the village but that I didn't learn till some time afterwards . 
One day , as she inspected this drawer , I observed that the playthings and trinkets which recently formed its contents were transmuted into bits of folded paper . 
Having opened , I emptied the whole contents into my apron , and took them with me to examine at leisure in my own chamber . 
Whether they satisfied Cathy I don't know but they appeared very worthless trash to me . 
After turning over as many as I thought proper , I tied them in a handkerchief and set them aside , relocking the vacant drawer . 
It was more simple and more eloquent than her cousin's very pretty and very silly . 
I shook my head , and went meditating into the house . 
The day being wet , she could not divert herself with rambling about the park so , at the conclusion of her morning studies , she resorted to the solace of the drawer . 
'What is the matter , love ? Have you hurt yourself ? he said . 
His tone and look assured her HE had not been the discoverer of the hoard . 
'No , papa ! she gasped . 
'Ellen ! Ellen ! come up stairs I'm sick ! I obeyed her summons , and accompanied her out . 
'Oh , Ellen ! you have got them , she commenced immediately , dropping on her knees , when we were enclosed alone . 
'Oh , give them to me , and I'll never , never do so again ! Don't tell papa . 
For shame ! and you must have led the way in writing such absurdities he would not have thought of beginning , I'm certain . 
'I didn't ! I didn't ! sobbed Cathy , fit to break her heart . 
'I didn't once think of loving him till 'LOVING ! cried I , as scornfully as I could utter the word . 
'LOVING ! Did anybody ever hear the like ! I might just as well talk of loving the miller who comes once a year to buy our corn . 
Pretty loving , indeed ! and both times together you have seen Linton hardly four hours in your life ! Now here is the babyish trash . 
I'm going with it to the library and we'll see what your father says to such LOVING . 
She sprang at her precious epistles , but I hold them above my head and then she poured out further frantic entreaties that I would burn them do anything rather than show them . 
, nor locks of hair , nor rings , nor playthings ? 'We don't send playthings , cried Catherine , her pride overcoming her shame . 
'Nor anything at all , then , my lady ? I said . 
'Unless you will , here I go . 
'I promise , Ellen ! she cried , catching my dress . 
'Oh , put them in the fire , do , do ! But when I proceeded to open a place with the poker the sacrifice was too painful to be borne . 
She earnestly supplicated that I would spare her one or two . 
'One or two , Ellen , to keep for Linton's sake ! I unknotted the handkerchief , and commenced dropping them in from an angle , and the flame curled up the chimney . 
'I will have one , you cruel wretch ! she screamed , darting her hand into the fire , and drawing forth some half consumed fragments , at the expense of her fingers . 
'Very well and I will have some to exhibit to papa ! I answered , shaking back the rest into the bundle , and turning anew to the door . 
She emptied her blackened pieces into the flames , and motioned me to finish the immolation . 
I descended to tell my master that the young lady's qualm of sickness was almost gone , but I judged it best for her to lie down a while . 
She wouldn't dine but she reappeared at tea , pale , and red about the eyes , and marvellously subdued in outward aspect . 
Next morning I answered the letter by a slip of paper , inscribed , 'Master Heathcliff is requested to send no more notes to Miss Linton , as she will not receive them . 
And , henceforth , the little boy came with vacant pockets . 
CHAPTER XXII SUMMER drew to an end , and early autumn it was past Michaelmas , but the harvest was late that year , and a few of our fields were still uncleared . 
Poor Cathy , frightened from her little romance , had been considerably sadder and duller since its abandonment and her father insisted on her reading less , and taking more exercise . 
She went sadly on there was no running or bounding now , though the chill wind might well have tempted her to race . 
And often , from the side of my eye , I could detect her raising a hand , and brushing something off her cheek . 
I gazed round for a means of diverting her thoughts . 
'Look , Miss ! I exclaimed , pointing to a nook under the roots of one twisted tree . 
'Winter is not here yet . 
There's a little flower up yonder , the last bud from the multitude of bluebells that clouded those turf steps in July with a lilac mist . 
You're so low , I daresay I shall keep up with you . 
'Catherine , why are you crying , love ? I asked , approaching and putting my arm over her shoulder . 
'You mustn't cry because papa has a cold be thankful it is nothing worse . 
She now put no further restraint on her tears her breath was stifled by sobs . 
'Oh , it will be something worse , she said . 
'And what shall I do when papa and you leave me , and I am by myself ? I can't forget your words , Ellen they are always in my ear . 
How life will be changed , how dreary the world will be , when papa and you are dead . 
'None can tell whether you won't die before us , I replied . 
'It's wrong to anticipate evil . 
We'll hope there are years and years to come before any of us go master is young , and I am strong , and hardly forty five . 
My mother lived till eighty , a canty dame to the last . 
And suppose Mr. Linton I were spared till he saw sixty , that would be more years than you have counted , Miss . 
'Aunt Isabella had not you and me to nurse her , I replied . 
'She wasn't as happy as Master she hadn't as much to live for . 
'I fret about nothing on earth except papa's illness , answered my companion . 
'I care for nothing in comparison with papa . 
And I'll never never oh , never , while I have my senses , do an act or say a word to vex him . 
'Good words , I replied . 
'But deeds must prove it also and after he is well , remember you don't forget resolutions formed in the hour of fear . 
In stretching to pull them , her hat fell off and as the door was locked , she proposed scrambling down to recover it . 
I bid her be cautious lest she got a fall , and she nimbly disappeared . 
But the return was no such easy matter the stones were smooth and neatly cemented , and the rose bushes and black berry stragglers could yield no assistance in re ascending . 
Catherine amused herself with dancing to and fro before the door , while I tried all the large keys in succession . 
It was the trot of a horse Cathy's dance stopped also . 
'Who is that ? I whispered . 
'Ellen , I wish you could open the door , whispered back my companion , anxiously . 
, 'I'm glad to meet you . 
Don't be in haste to enter , for I have an explanation to ask and obtain . 
'I sha'n't speak to you , Mr. Heathcliff , answered Catherine . 
'Papa says you are a wicked man , and you hate both him and me and Ellen says the same . 
'That is nothing to the purpose , said Heathcliff . 
'I don't hate my son , I suppose and it is concerning him that I demand your attention . 
Yes you have cause to blush . 
I've got your letters , and if you give me any pertness I'll send them to your father . 
I presume you grew weary of the amusement and dropped it , didn't you ? Well , you dropped Linton with it into a Slough of Despond . 
He was in earnest in love , really . 
As true as I live , he's dying for you breaking his heart at your fickleness not figuratively , but actually . 
'Pray ride on ! How can you deliberately get up such paltry falsehoods ? Miss Cathy , I'll knock the lock off with a stone you won't believe that vile nonsense . 
You can feel in yourself it is impossible that a person should die for love of a stranger . 
'I was not aware there were eavesdroppers , muttered the detected villain . 
'Worthy Mrs. Dean , I like you , but I don't like your double dealing , he added aloud . 
I swear , on my salvation , he's going to his grave , and none but you can save him ! The lock gave way and I issued out . 
'I swear Linton is dying , repeated Heathcliff , looking hard at me . 
'And grief and disappointment are hastening his death . 
Nelly , if you won't let her go , you can walk over yourself . 
But I shall not return till this time next week and I think your master himself would scarcely object to her visiting her cousin . 
He pushed his horse close , and , bending down , observed 'Miss Catherine , I'll own to you that I have little patience with Linton and Hareton and Joseph have less . 
I'll own that he's with a harsh set . 
He pines for kindness , as well as love and a kind word from you would be his best medicine . 
Don't mind Mrs. Dean's cruel cautions but be generous , and contrive to see him . 
He dreams of you day and night , and cannot be persuaded that you don't hate him , since you neither write nor call . 
Our hurry prevented any comment on the encounter with Heathcliff , as we stretched towards home but I divined instinctively that Catherine's heart was clouded now in double darkness . 
Her features were so sad , they did not seem hers she evidently regarded what she had heard as every syllable true . 
The master had retired to rest before we came in . 
Cathy stole to his room to inquire how he was he had fallen asleep . 
She returned , and asked me to sit with her in the library . 
We took our tea together and afterwards she lay down on the rug , and told me not to talk , for she was weary . 
I got a book , and pretended to read . 
As soon as she supposed me absorbed in my occupation , she recommenced her silent weeping it appeared , at present , her favourite diversion . 
I suffered her to enjoy it a while then I expostulated deriding and ridiculing all Mr. Heathcliff's assertions about his son , as if I were certain she would coincide . 
Alas ! I hadn't skill to counteract the effect his account had produced it was just what he intended . 
'You may be right , Ellen , she answered 'but I shall never feel at ease till I know . 
And I must tell Linton it is not my fault that I don't write , and convince him that I shall not change . 
CHAPTER XXIII THE rainy night had ushered in a misty morning half frost , half drizzle and temporary brooks crossed our path gurgling from the uplands . 
My feet were thoroughly wetted I was cross and low exactly the humour suited for making the most of these disagreeable things . 
We entered the farm house by the kitchen way , to ascertain whether Mr. Heathcliff were really absent because I put slight faith in his own affirmation . 
Catherine ran to the hearth to warm herself . 
I asked if the master was in ? My question remained so long unanswered , that I thought the old man had grown deaf , and repeated it louder . 
'Na ay ! he snarled , or rather screamed through his nose . 
'Na ay ! yah muh goa back whear yah coom frough . 
'Joseph ! cried a peevish voice , simultaneously with me , from the inner room . 
'How often am I to call you ? There are only a few red ashes now . 
Joseph ! come this moment . 
Vigorous puffs , and a resolute stare into the grate , declared he had no ear for this appeal . 
The housekeeper and Hareton were invisible one gone on an errand , and the other at his work , probably . 
We knew Linton's tones , and entered . 
'Oh , I hope you'll die in a garret , starved to death ! said the boy , mistaking our approach for that of his negligent attendant . 
He stopped on observing his error his cousin flew to him . 
'Is that you , Miss Linton ? he said , raising his head from the arm of the great chair , in which he reclined . 
'No don't kiss me it takes my breath . 
Dear me ! Papa said you would call , continued he , after recovering a little from Catherine's embrace while she stood by looking very contrite . 
'Will you shut the door , if you please ? you left it open and those those DETESTABLE creatures won't bring coals to the fire . 
It's so cold ! I stirred up the cinders , and fetched a scuttleful myself . 
The invalid complained of being covered with ashes but he had a tiresome cough , and looked feverish and ill , so I did not rebuke his temper . 
'You should have come , instead of writing . 
It tired me dreadfully writing those long letters . 
I'd far rather have talked to you . 
Now , I can neither bear to talk , nor anything else . 
'I want to drink , he exclaimed fretfully , turning away . 
'Zillah is constantly gadding off to Gimmerton since papa went it's miserable ! And I'm obliged to come down here they resolved never to hear me up stairs . 
'Is your father attentive to you , Master Heathcliff ? I asked , perceiving Catherine to be checked in her friendly advances . 
'Attentive ? He makes them a little more attentive at least , he cried . 
'The wretches ! Do you know , Miss Linton , that brute Hareton laughs at me ! I hate him ! indeed , I hate them all they are odious beings . 
Cathy began searching for some water she lighted on a pitcher in the dresser , filled a tumbler , and brought it . 
He bid her add a spoonful of wine from a bottle on the table and having swallowed a small portion , appeared more tranquil , and said she was very kind . 
'And are you glad to see me ? asked she , reiterating her former question and pleased to detect the faint dawn of a smile . 
It's something new to hear a voice like yours ! he replied . 
'But I have been vexed , because you wouldn't come . 
But you don't despise me , do you , Miss ? 'I wish you would say Catherine , or Cathy , interrupted my young lady . 
'Despise you ? No ! Next to papa and Ellen , I love you better than anybody living . 
Pretty Linton ! I wish you were my brother . 
'And then you would like me as well as your father ? observed he , more cheerfully . 
'But papa says you would love me better than him and all the world , if you were my wife so I'd rather you were that . 
'No , I should never love anybody better than papa , she returned gravely . 
Linton denied that people ever hated their wives but Cathy affirmed they did , and , in her wisdom , instanced his own father's aversion to her aunt . 
I endeavoured to stop her thoughtless tongue . 
I couldn't succeed till everything she knew was out . 
Master Heathcliff , much irritated , asserted her relation was false . 
'Papa told me and papa does not tell falsehoods , she answered pertly . 
'MY papa scorns yours ! cried Linton . 
'He calls him a sneaking fool . 
'Yours is a wicked man , retorted Catherine 'and you are very naughty to dare to repeat what he says . 
He must be wicked to have made Aunt Isabella leave him as she did . 
'She didn't leave him , said the boy 'you sha'n't contradict me . 
'She did , cried my young lady . 
'Well , I'll tell you something ! said Linton . 
'Your mother hated your father now then . 
'Oh ! exclaimed Catherine , too enraged to continue . 
'And she loved mine , added he . 
'You little liar ! I hate you now ! she panted , and her face grew red with passion . 
'Hush , Master Heathcliff ! I said 'that's your father's tale , too , I suppose . 
'It isn't you hold your tongue ! he answered . 
He was immediately seized by a suffocating cough that soon ended his triumph . 
It lasted so long that it frightened even me . 
As to his cousin , she wept with all her might , aghast at the mischief she had done though she said nothing . 
I held him till the fit exhausted itself . 
Then he thrust me away , and leant his head down silently . 
Catherine quelled her lamentations also , took a seat opposite , and looked solemnly into the fire . 
'How do you feel now , Master Heathcliff ? I inquired , after waiting ten minutes . 
'I wish SHE felt as I do , he replied 'spiteful , cruel thing ! Hareton never touches me he never struck me in his life . 
And I was better to day and there his voice died in a whimper . 
'I didn't strike you ! muttered Cathy , chewing her lip to prevent another burst of emotion . 
'I'm sorry I hurt you , Linton , she said at length , racked beyond endurance . 
Answer ! speak to me . 
'I can't speak to you , he murmured 'you've hurt me so that I shall lie awake all night choking with this cough . 
If you had it you'd know what it was but YOU'LL be comfortably asleep while I'm in agony , and nobody near me . 
I wonder how you would like to pass those fearful nights ! And he began to wail aloud , for very pity of himself . 
'Since you are in the habit of passing dreadful nights , I said , 'it won't be Miss who spoils your ease you'd be the same had she never come . 
However , she shall not disturb you again and perhaps you'll get quieter when we leave you . 
'Must I go ? asked Catherine dolefully , bending over him . 
'Well , then , I must go ? she repeated . 
'Let me alone , at least , said he 'I can't bear your talking . 
She lingered , and resisted my persuasions to departure a tiresome while but as he neither looked up nor spoke , she finally made a movement to the door , and I followed . 
We were recalled by a scream . 
I thoroughly gauged his disposition from his behaviour , and saw at once it would be folly to attempt humouring him . 
'I shall lift him on to the settle , I said , 'and he may roll about as he pleases we can't stop to watch him . 
I hope you are satisfied , Miss Cathy , that you are not the person to benefit him and that his condition of health is not occasioned by attachment to you . 
Now , then , there he is ! Come away as soon as he knows there is nobody by to care for his nonsense , he'll be glad to lie still . 
She tried to put it more comfortably . 
'I can't do with that , he said 'it's not high enough . 
Catherine brought another to lay above it . 
'That's too high , murmured the provoking thing . 
'How must I arrange it , then ? she asked despairingly . 
He twined himself up to her , as she half knelt by the settle , and converted her shoulder into a support . 
'No , that won't do , I said . 
'You'll be content with the cushion , Master Heathcliff . 
Miss has wasted too much time on you already we cannot remain five minutes longer . 
'Yes , yes , we can ! replied Cathy . 
'He's good and patient now . 
He's beginning to think I shall have far greater misery than he will to night , if I believe he is the worse for my visit and then I dare not come again . 
Tell the truth about it , Linton for I musn't come , if I have hurt you . 
'You must come , to cure me , he answered . 
I didn't do it all , said his cousin . 
'However , we'll be friends now . 
And you want me you would wish to see me sometimes , really ? 'I told you I did , he replied impatiently . 
'Sit on the settle and let me lean on your knee . 
That's as mamma used to do , whole afternoons together . 
I'd rather have a ballad , though begin . 
Catherine repeated the longest she could remember . 
The employment pleased both mightily . 
'And to morrow , Catherine , will you be here to morrow ? asked young Heathcliff , holding her frock as she rose reluctantly . 
'No , I answered , 'nor next day neither . 
She , however , gave a different response evidently , for his forehead cleared as she stooped and whispered in his ear . 
'You won't go to morrow , recollect , Miss ! I commenced , when we were out of the house . 
'You are not dreaming of it , are you ? She smiled . 
'Oh , I'll take good care , I continued 'I'll have that lock mended , and you can escape by no way else . 
'I can get over the wall , she said laughing . 
'The Grange is not a prison , Ellen , and you are not my gaoler . 
And besides , I'm almost seventeen I'm a woman . 
And I'm certain Linton would recover quickly if he had me to look after him . 
I'm older than he is , you know , and wiser less childish , am I not ? And he'll soon do as I direct him , with some slight coaxing . 
He's a pretty little darling when he's good . 
I'd make such a pet of him , if he were mine . 
We should , never quarrel , should we after we were used to each other ? Don't you like him , Ellen ? 'Like him ! I exclaimed . 
'The worst tempered bit of a sickly slip that ever struggled into its teens . 
Happily , as Mr. Heathcliff conjectured , he'll not win twenty . 
I doubt whether he'll see spring , indeed . 
And small loss to his family whenever he drops off . 
And lucky it is for us that his father took him the kinder he was treated , the more tedious and selfish he'd be . 
I'm glad you have no chance of having him for a husband , Miss Catherine . 
My companion waxed serious at hearing this speech . 
To speak of his death so regardlessly wounded her feelings . 
'He's younger than I , she answered , after a protracted pause of meditation , 'and he ought to live the longest he will he must live as long as I do . 
He's as strong now as when he first came into the north I'm positive of that . 
It's only a cold that ails him , the same as papa has . 
'It has been revived , muttered Cathy , sulkily . 
'Must not be continued , then , I said . 
'We'll see , was her reply , and she set off at a gallop , leaving me to toil in the rear . 
We both reached home before our dinner time my master supposed we had been wandering through the park , and therefore he demanded no explanation of our absence . 
As soon as I entered I hastened to change my soaked shoes and stockings but sitting such awhile at the Heights had done the mischief . 
My little mistress behaved like an angel in coming to wait on me , and cheer my solitude the confinement brought me exceedingly low . 
It is wearisome , to a stirring active body but few have slighter reasons for complaint than I had . 
The moment Catherine left Mr. Linton's room she appeared at my bedside . 
Her day was divided between us no amusement usurped a minute she neglected her meals , her studies , and her play and she was the fondest nurse that ever watched . 
She must have had a warm heart , when she loved her father so , to give so much to me . 
I said her days were divided between us but the master retired early , and I generally needed nothing after six o'clock , thus the evening was her own . 
Poor thing ! I never considered what she did with herself after tea . 
CHAPTER XXIV AT the close of three weeks I was able to quit my chamber and move about the house . 
And on the first occasion of my sitting up in the evening I asked Catherine to read to me , because my eyes were weak . 
She selected one of her own favourites , and got forward steadily about an hour then came frequent questions . 
'Ellen , are not you tired ? Hadn't you better lie down now ? You'll be sick , keeping up so long , Ellen . 
'No , no , dear , I'm not tired , I returned , continually . 
Perceiving me immovable , she essayed another method of showing her disrelish for her occupation . 
It changed to yawning , and stretching , and 'Ellen , I'm tired . 
'Give over then and talk , I answered . 
The following night she seemed more impatient still and on the third from recovering my company she complained of a headache , and left me . 
No Catherine could I discover up stairs , and none below . 
The servants affirmed they had not seen her . 
I listened at Mr. Edgar's door all was silence . 
I returned to her apartment , extinguished my candle , and seated myself in the window . 
I did detect a figure creeping along the inner fence of the park but it was not my young mistress on its emerging into the light , I recognised one of the grooms . 
The man took his charge stealthily across the grass towards the stable . 
Cathy entered by the casement window of the drawing room , and glided noiselessly up to where I awaited her . 
The surprise petrified her an instant she uttered an inarticulate exclamation , and stood fixed . 
'I didn't tell a tale . 
'And nowhere else ? I demanded . 
'No , was the muttered reply . 
'Oh , Catherine ! I cried , sorrowfully . 
'You know you have been doing wrong , or you wouldn't be driven to uttering an untruth to me . 
I'd rather be three months ill , than hear you frame a deliberate lie . 
She sprang forward , and bursting into tears , threw her arms round my neck . 
'Well , Ellen , I'm so afraid of you being angry , she said . 
'Promise not to be angry , and you shall know the very truth I hate to hide it . 
I gave Michael books and pictures to prepare Minny every evening , and to put her back in the stable you mustn't scold him either , mind . 
I was at the Heights by half past six , and generally stayed till half past eight , and then galloped home . 
It was not to amuse myself that I went I was often wretched all the time . 
Now and then I was happy once in a week perhaps . 
I needn't repeat that , because you would call it silly . 
'One time , however , we were near quarrelling . 
He wanted all to lie in an ecstasy of peace I wanted all to sparkle and dance in a glorious jubilee . 
At last , we agreed to try both , as soon as the right weather came and then we kissed each other and were friends . 
He wouldn't there was no pleasure in it , he said but he consented to play at ball with me . 
We found two in a cupboard , among a heap of old toys , tops , and hoops , and battledores and shuttlecocks . 
I beat him constantly and he got cross again , and coughed , and returned to his chair . 
Minny and I went flying home as light as air and I dreamt of Wuthering Heights and my sweet , darling cousin , till morning . 
I shall have another happy evening , I thought to myself and what delights me more , my pretty Linton will . 
He patted Minny's neck , and said she was a bonny beast , and appeared as if he wanted me to speak to him . 
I only told him to leave my horse alone , or else it would kick him . 
He answered in his vulgar accent , It wouldn't do mitch hurt if it did and surveyed its legs with a smile . 
Pray let us hear you you ARE grown clever ! 'He spelt , and drawled over by syllables , the name Hareton Earnshaw . 
And the figures ? I cried , encouragingly , perceiving that he came to a dead halt . 
I cannot tell them yet , he answered . 
Oh , you dunce ! I said , laughing heartily at his failure . 
I settled his doubts , by suddenly retrieving my gravity and desiring him to walk away , for I came to see Linton , not him . 
He reddened I saw that by the moonlight dropped his hand from the latch , and skulked off , a picture of mortified vanity . 
He imagined himself to be as accomplished as Linton , I suppose , because he could spell his own name and was marvellously discomfited that I didn't think the same . 
'Stop , Miss Catherine , dear ! I interrupted . 
'I shall not scold , but I don't like your conduct there . 
If you had remembered that Hareton was your cousin as much as Master Heathcliff , you would have felt how improper it was to behave in that way . 
To sneer at his imperfect attempt was very bad breeding . 
'Well , Ellen , you won't cry about it , will you ? she exclaimed , surprised at my earnestness . 
'But wait , and you shall hear if he conned his A B C to please me and if it were worth while being civil to the brute . 
I entered Linton was lying on the settle , and half got up to welcome me . 
I'm ill to night , Catherine , love , he said and you must have all the talk , and let me listen . 
Come , and sit by me . 
I was sure you wouldn't break your word , and I'll make you promise again , before you go . 
'I knew now that I mustn't tease him , as he was ill and I spoke softly and put no questions , and avoided irritating him in any way . 
He advanced direct to us , seized Linton by the arm , and swung him off the seat . 
Get to thy own room ! he said , in a voice almost inarticulate with passion and his face looked swelled and furious . 
Take her there if she comes to see thee thou shalln't keep me out of this . 
I was afraid for a moment , and I let one volume fall he kicked it after me , and shut us out . 
I heard a malignant , crackly laugh by the fire , and turning , beheld that odious Joseph standing rubbing his bony hands , and quivering . 
'Linton was white and trembling . 
He was not pretty then , Ellen oh , no ! he looked frightful for his thin face and large eyes were wrought into an expression of frantic , powerless fury . 
He grasped the handle of the door , and shook it it was fastened inside . 
If you don't let me in , I'll kill you ! If you don't let me in , I'll kill you ! he rather shrieked than said . 
Devil ! devil ! I'll kill you I'll kill you ! Joseph uttered his croaking laugh again . 
Thear , that's t' father ! he cried . 
That's father ! We've allas summut o' either side in us . 
At last his cries were choked by a dreadful fit of coughing blood gushed from his mouth , and he fell on the ground . 
I ran into the yard , sick with terror and called for Zillah , as loud as I could . 
Earnshaw had come out to examine the mischief he had caused , and he was then conveying the poor thing up stairs . 
Zillah and I ascended after him but he stopped me at the top of the steps , and said I shouldn't go in I must go home . 
I exclaimed that he had killed Linton , and I WOULD enter . 
Joseph locked the door , and declared I should do no sich stuff , and asked me whether I were bahn to be as mad as him . 
I stood crying till the housekeeper reappeared . 
She affirmed he would be better in a bit , but he couldn't do with that shrieking and din and she took me , and nearly carried me into the house . 
Miss Catherine , I'm ill grieved , he began , but it's rayther too bad 'I gave him a cut with my whip , thinking perhaps he would murder me . 
He let go , thundering one of his horrid curses , and I galloped home more than half out of my senses . 
On the third day I took courage at least , I couldn't bear longer suspense , and stole off once more . 
I went at five o'clock , and walked fancying I might manage to creep into the house , and up to Linton's room , unobserved . 
However , the dogs gave notice of my approach . 
But he would neither speak to me nor look at me , through a whole hour , Ellen he has such an unhappy temper . 
But it was so miserable going to bed and getting up , and never hearing anything about him , that my resolution melted into air before it was properly formed . 
It had appeared wrong to take the journey once now it seemed wrong to refrain . 
Michael came to ask if he must saddle Minny I said Yes , and considered myself doing a duty as she bore me over the hills . 
I was forced to pass the front windows to get to the court it was no use trying to conceal my presence . 
Young master is in the house , said Zillah , as she saw me making for the parlour . 
I went in Earnshaw was there also , but he quitted the room directly . 
Sit down and take your hat off , Catherine , he answered . 
You are so much happier than I am , you ought to be better . 
Papa talks enough of my defects , and shows enough scorn of me , to make it natural I should doubt myself . 
We were reconciled but we cried , both of us , the whole time I stayed not entirely for sorrow yet I WAS sorry Linton had that distorted nature . 
Mr. Heathcliff purposely avoids me I have hardly seen him at all . 
Last Sunday , indeed , coming earlier than usual , I heard him abusing poor Linton cruelly for his conduct of the night before . 
I can't tell how he knew of it , unless he listened . 
Linton had certainly behaved provokingly however , it was the business of nobody but me , and I interrupted Mr. Heathcliff's lecture by entering and telling him so . 
He burst into a laugh , and went away , saying he was glad I took that view of the matter . 
Since then , I've told Linton he must whisper his bitter things . 
Now , Ellen , you have heard all . 
You'll not tell , will you ? It will be very heartless , if you do . 
'I'll make up my mind on that point by to morrow , Miss Catherine , I replied . 
'It requires some study and so I'll leave you to your rest , and go think it over . 
Mr. Linton was alarmed and distressed , more than he would acknowledge to me . 
In the morning , Catherine learnt my betrayal of her confidence , and she learnt also that her secret visits were to end . 
Perhaps , had he been aware of his nephew's disposition and state of health , he would have seen fit to withhold even that slight consolation . 
CHAPTER XXV 'THESE things happened last winter , sir , said Mrs. Dean 'hardly more than a year ago . 
I'm of the busy world , and to its arms I must return . 
Was Catherine obedient to her father's commands ? 'She was , continued the housekeeper . 
He said to me , a few days afterwards , I wish my nephew would write , Ellen , or call . 
However , master , you'll have plenty of time to get acquainted with him and see whether he would suit her it wants four years and more to his being of age . 
Edgar sighed and , walking to the window , looked out towards Gimmerton Kirk . 
It was a misty afternoon , but the February sun shone dimly , and we could just distinguish the two fir trees in the yard , and the sparely scattered gravestones . 
'I've prayed often , he half soliloquised , 'for the approach of what is coming and now I begin to shrink , and fear it . 
Darling ! I'd rather resign her to God , and lay her in the earth before me . 
Miss Catherine is a good girl I don't fear that she will go wilfully wrong and people who do their duty are always finally rewarded . 
Spring advanced yet my master gathered no real strength , though he resumed his walks in the grounds with his daughter . 
To her inexperienced notions , this itself was a sign of convalescence and then his cheek was often flushed , and his eyes were bright she felt sure of his recovering . 
He wrote again to Linton , expressing his great desire to see him and , had the invalid been presentable , I've no doubt his father would have permitted him to come . 
That part of his letter was simple , and probably his own . 
Heathcliff knew he could plead eloquently for Catherine's company , then . 
Dear uncle ! send me a kind note to morrow , and leave to join you anywhere you please , except at Thrushcross Grange . 
Linton complied and had he been unrestrained , would probably have spoiled all by filling his epistles with complaints and lamentations . 
CHAPTER XXVI SUMMER was already past its prime , when Edgar reluctantly yielded his assent to their entreaties , and Catherine and I set out on our first ride to join her cousin . 
'Then Master Linton has forgot the first injunction of his uncle , I observed 'he bid us keep on the Grange land , and here we are off at once . 
'Well , we'll turn our horses' heads round when we reach him , answered my companion 'our excursion shall lie towards home . 
He lay on the heath , awaiting our approach , and did not rise till we came within a few yards . 
Then he walked so feebly , and looked so pale , that I immediately exclaimed , 'Why , Master Heathcliff , you are not fit for enjoying a ramble this morning . 
'But you have been worse , persisted his cousin 'worse than when I saw you last you are thinner , and 'I'm tired , he interrupted , hurriedly . 
'It is too hot for walking , let us rest here . 
And , in the morning , I often feel sick papa says I grow so fast . 
Badly satisfied , Cathy sat down , and he reclined beside her . 
'This is something like your paradise , said she , making an effort at cheerfulness . 
Next week , if you can , we'll ride down to the Grange Park , and try mine . 
Linton did not appear to remember what she talked of and he had evidently great difficulty in sustaining any kind of conversation . 
His lack of interest in the subjects she started , and his equal incapacity to contribute to her entertainment , were so obvious that she could not conceal her disappointment . 
An indefinite alteration had come over his whole person and manner . 
That proposal , unexpectedly , roused Linton from his lethargy , and threw him into a strange state of agitation . 
He glanced fearfully towards the Heights , begging she would remain another half hour , at least . 
'Stay to rest yourself , he replied . 
Tell uncle I'm in tolerable health , will you ? 'I'll tell him that YOU say so , Linton . 
I couldn't affirm that you are , observed my young lady , wondering at his pertinacious assertion of what was evidently an untruth . 
'And be here again next Thursday , continued he , shunning her puzzled gaze . 
'And give him my thanks for permitting you to come my best thanks , Catherine . 
'I care nothing for his anger , exclaimed Cathy , imagining she would be its object . 
'But I do , said her cousin , shuddering . 
'DON'T provoke him against me , Catherine , for he is very hard . 
'Is he severe to you , Master Heathcliff ? I inquired . 
'Is it half an hour now , Ellen ? she whispered in my ear , at last . 
'I can't tell why we should stay . 
He's asleep , and papa will be wanting us back . 
'Well , we must not leave him asleep , I answered 'wait till lie wakes , and be patient . 
You were mighty eager to set off , but your longing to see poor Linton has soon evaporated ! 'Why did HE wish to see me ? returned Catherine . 
'In his crossest humours , formerly , I liked him better than I do in his present curious mood . 
It's just as if it were a task he was compelled to perform this interview for fear his father should scold him . 
But I'm hardly going to come to give Mr. Heathcliff pleasure whatever reason he may have for ordering Linton to undergo this penance . 
And , though I'm glad he's better in health , I'm sorry he's so much less pleasant , and so much less affectionate to me . 
'You think HE IS better in health , then ? I said . 
'Yes , she answered 'because he always made such a great deal of his sufferings , you know . 
He is not tolerably well , as he told me to tell papa but he's better , very likely . 
'There you differ with me , Miss Cathy , I remarked 'I should conjecture him to be far worse . 
Linton here started from his slumber in bewildered terror , and asked if any one had called his name . 
'No , said Catherine 'unless in dreams . 
I cannot conceive how you manage to doze out of doors , in the morning . 
'I thought I heard my father , he gasped , glancing up to the frowning nab above us . 
'You are sure nobody spoke ? 'Quite sure , replied his cousin . 
'Only Ellen and I were disputing concerning your health . 
'For to day we must part , she said . 
'And I won't conceal that I have been sadly disappointed with our meeting though I'll mention it to nobody but you not that I stand in awe of Mr. Heathcliff . 
'Hush , murmured Linton 'for God's sake , hush ! He's coming . 
And he clung to Catherine's arm , striving to detain her but at that announcement she hastily disengaged herself , and whistled to Minny , who obeyed her like a dog . 
'I'll be here next Thursday , she cried , springing to the saddle . 
Quick , Ellen ! And so we left him , scarcely conscious of our departure , so absorbed was he in anticipating his father's approach . 
My master requested an account of our ongoings . 
CHAPTER XXVII SEVEN days glided away , every one marking its course by the henceforth rapid alteration of Edgar Linton's state . 
The havoc that months had previously wrought was now emulated by the inroads of hours . 
Catherine we would fain have deluded yet but her own quick spirit refused to delude her it divined in secret , and brooded on the dreadful probability , gradually ripening into certainty . 
She grudged each moment that did not find her bending over his pillow , or seated by his side . 
We discerned Linton watching at the same spot he had selected before . 
Master Heathcliff received us with greater animation on this occasion not the animation of high spirits though , nor yet of joy it looked more like fear . 
'It is late ! he said , speaking short and with difficulty . 
'Is not your father very ill ? I thought you wouldn't come . 
'WHY won't you be candid ? cried Catherine , swallowing her greeting . 
Hate my father , and spare me for contempt . 
'Nonsense ! cried Catherine in a passion . 
Ellen , tell him how disgraceful this conduct is . 
The old feeling of indulgent tenderness overcame her vexation , and she grew thoroughly moved and alarmed . 
'Consent to what ? she asked . 
'To stay ! tell me the meaning of this strange talk , and I will . 
You contradict your own words , and distract me ! Be calm and frank , and confess at once all that weighs on your heart . 
Save yourself I'm not afraid ! Her magnanimity provoked his tears he wept wildly , kissing her supporting hands , and yet could not summon courage to speak out . 
How are you at the Grange ? Let us hear . 
A sad thing it will be for us all , but a blessing for him ! 'How long will he last , do you think ? he asked . 
'I don't know , I said . 
Is he pretty lively with Miss Linton generally ? 'Lively ? no he has shown the greatest distress , I answered . 
'To see him , I should say , that instead of rambling with his sweetheart on the hills , he ought to be in bed , under the hands of a doctor . 
'He shall be , in a day or two , muttered Heathcliff . 
'But first get up , Linton ! Get up ! he shouted . 
He made several efforts to obey , but his little strength was annihilated for the time , and he fell back again with a moan . 
Mr. Heathcliff advanced , and lifted him to lean against a ridge of turf . 
'Only , let me alone , or I shall faint . 
I've done as you wished , I'm sure . 
Catherine will tell you that I that I have been cheerful . 
Ah ! keep by me , Catherine give me your hand . 
'Take mine , said his father 'stand on your feet . 
There now she'll lend you her arm that's right , look at her . 
You would imagine I was the devil himself , Miss Linton , to excite such horror . 
Be so kind as to walk home with him , will you ? He shudders if I touch him . 
'Linton dear ! whispered Catherine , 'I can't go to Wuthering Heights papa has forbidden me . 
He'll not harm you why are you so afraid ? 'I can never re enter that house , he answered . 
'I'm NOT to re enter it without you ! 'Stop ! cried his father . 
'We'll respect Catherine's filial scruples . 
Nelly , take him in , and I'll follow your advice concerning the doctor , without delay . 
'You'll do well , replied I. 'But I must remain with my mistress to mind your son is not my business . 
'You are very stiff , said Heathcliff , 'I know that but you'll force me to pinch the baby and make it scream before it moves your charity . 
Come , then , my hero . 
He shut and locked it also . 
'You shall have tea before you go home , he added . 
Miss Linton , take your seat by HIM . 
I give you what I have the present is hardly worth accepting but I have nothing else to offer . 
It is Linton , I mean . 
He drew in his breath , struck the table , and swore to himself , 'By hell ! I hate them . 
'I am not afraid of you ! exclaimed Catherine , who could not hear the latter part of his speech . 
She stepped close up her black eyes flashing with passion and resolution . 
'Give me that key I will have it ! she said . 
'I wouldn't eat or drink here , if I were starving . 
Heathcliff had the key in his hand that remained on the table . 
He looked up , seized with a sort of surprise at her boldness or , possibly , reminded , by her voice and glance , of the person from whom she inherited it . 
She snatched at the instrument , and half succeeded in getting it out of his loosened fingers but her action recalled him to the present he recovered it speedily . 
'Now , Catherine Linton , he said , 'stand off , or I shall knock you down and , that will make Mrs. Dean mad . 
Regardless of this warning , she captured his closed hand and its contents again . 
'We will go ! she repeated , exerting her utmost efforts to cause the iron muscles to relax and finding that her nails made no impression , she applied her teeth pretty sharply . 
Heathcliff glanced at me a glance that kept me from interfering a moment . 
Catherine was too intent on his fingers to notice his face . 
At this diabolical violence I rushed on him furiously . 
She trembled like a reed , poor thing , and leant against the table perfectly bewildered . 
'I know how to chastise children , you see , said the scoundrel , grimly , as he stooped to repossess himself of the key , which had dropped to the floor . 
Her cousin had shrunk into a corner of the settle , as quiet as a mouse , congratulating himself , I dare say , that the correction had alighted on another than him . 
Mr. Heathcliff , perceiving us all confounded , rose , and expeditiously made the tea himself . 
The cups and saucers were laid ready . 
He poured it out , and handed me a cup . 
'Wash away your spleen , he said . 
'And help your own naughty pet and mine . 
It is not poisoned , though I prepared it . 
I'm going out to seek your horses . 
Our first thought , on his departure , was to force an exit somewhere . 
We tried the kitchen door , but that was fastened outside we looked at the windows they were too narrow for even Cathy's little figure . 
'Yes , Linton , you must tell , said Catherine . 
'It was for your sake I came and it will be wickedly ungrateful if you refuse . 
'Give me some tea , I'm thirsty , and then I'll tell you , he answered . 
I don't like you standing over me . 
Now , Catherine , you are letting your tears fall into my cup . 
Catherine pushed another to him , and wiped her face . 
I felt disgusted at the little wretch's composure , since he was no longer in terror for himself . 
'Papa wants us to be married , he continued , after sipping some of the liquid . 
'Take you with her , pitiful changeling ! I exclaimed . 
'YOU marry ? Why , the man is mad ! or he thinks us fools , every one . 
I did give him a slight shaking but it brought on the cough , and he took to his ordinary resource of moaning and weeping , and Catherine rebuked me . 
'Stay all night ? No , she said , looking slowly round . 
'Ellen , I'll burn that door down but I'll get out . 
And she would have commenced the execution of her threat directly , but Linton was up in alarm for his dear self again . 
You MUST obey my father you MUST ! 'I must obey my own , she replied , 'and relieve him from this cruel suspense . 
The whole night ! What would he think ? He'll be distressed already . 
I'll either break or burn a way out of the house . 
Catherine was near distraught still , she persisted that she must go home , and tried entreaty in her turn , persuading him to subdue his selfish agony . 
While they were thus occupied , our jailor re entered . 
In a month or two , my lad , you'll be able to pay her back her present tyrannies with a vigorous hand . 
Hush ! hold your noise ! Once in your own room , I'll not come near you you needn't fear . 
By chance , you've managed tolerably . 
I'll look to the rest . 
The lock was re secured . 
Heathcliff approached the fire , where my mistress and I stood silent . 
Catherine looked up , and instinctively raised her hand to her cheek his neighbourhood revived a painful sensation . 
Why should you wish to force me to do what I'll willingly do of myself ? 'Let him dare to force you , I cried . 
'There's law in the land , thank God ! there is though we be in an out of the way place . 
I'd inform if he were my own son and it's felony without benefit of clergy ! 'Silence ! said the ruffian . 
'To the devil with your clamour ! I don't want YOU to speak . 
Miss Linton , I shall enjoy myself remarkably in thinking your father will be miserable I shall not sleep for satisfaction . 
You could have hit on no surer way of fixing your residence under my roof for the next twenty four hours than informing me that such an event would follow . 
As to your promise to marry Linton , I'll take care you shall keep it for you shall not quit this place till it is fulfilled . 
'Send Ellen , then , to let papa know I'm safe ! exclaimed Catherine , weeping bitterly . 
Poor papa ! Ellen , he'll think we're lost . 
What shall we do ? 'Not he ! He'll think you are tired of waiting on him , and run off for a little amusement , answered Heathcliff . 
'You cannot deny that you entered my house of your own accord , in contempt of his injunctions to the contrary . 
And it is quite natural that you should desire amusement at your age and that you would weary of nursing a sick man , and that man ONLY your father . 
Catherine , his happiest days were over when your days began . 
and it would just do if he cursed you as HE went out of it . 
I don't love you ! How should I ? Weep away . 
As far as I can see , it will be your chief diversion hereafter unless Linton make amends for other losses and your provident parent appears to fancy he may . 
His letters of advice and consolation entertained me vastly . 
In his last he recommended my jewel to be careful of his and kind to her when he got her . 
Careful and kind that's paternal . 
But Linton requires his whole stock of care and kindness for himself . 
Linton can play the little tyrant well . 
He'll undertake to torture any number of cats , if their teeth be drawn and their claws pared . 
You'll be able to tell his uncle fine tales of his KINDNESS , when you get home again , I assure you . 
'You're right there ! I said 'explain your son's character . 
I can detain you both , quite concealed , here . 
If you doubt , encourage her to retract her word , and you'll have an opportunity of judging ! 'I'll not retract my word , said Catherine . 
'I'll marry him within this hour , if I may go to Thrushcross Grange afterwards . 
Mr. Heathcliff , you're a cruel man , but you're not a fiend and you won't , from MERE malice , destroy irrevocably all my happiness . 
I'm not angry that you struck me . 
Have you never loved ANYBODY in all your life , uncle ? NEVER ? Ah ! you must look once . 
I'm so wretched , you can't help being sorry and pitying me . 
'Keep your eft's fingers off and move , or I'll kick you ! cried Heathcliff , brutally repulsing her . 
'I'd rather be hugged by a snake . 
But I was rendered dumb in the middle of the first sentence , by a threat that I should be shown into a room by myself the very next syllable I uttered . 
It was growing dark we heard a sound of voices at the garden gate . 
Our host hurried out instantly HE had his wits about him WE had not . 
There was a talk of two or three minutes , and he returned alone . 
'I thought it had been your cousin Hareton , I observed to Catherine . 
'I wish he would arrive ! Who knows but he might take our part ? 'It was three servants sent to seek you from the Grange , said Heathcliff , overhearing me . 
'You should have opened a lattice and called out but I could swear that chit is glad you didn't . 
She's glad to be obliged to stay , I'm certain . 
At learning the chance we had missed , we both gave vent to our grief without control and he allowed us to wail on till nine o'clock . 
The window , however , was narrow , like those below , and the garret trap was safe from our attempts for we were fastened in as before . 
She ran to the door immediately , and answered , 'Yes . 
'Here , then , he said , opening it , and pulling her out . 
I rose to follow , but he turned the lock again . 
'Be patient , he replied 'I'll send up your breakfast in a while . 
I endured it two or three hours at length , I heard a footstep not Heathcliff's . 
'I've brought you something to eat , said a voice 'oppen t' door ! Complying eagerly , I beheld Hareton , laden with food enough to last me all day . 
'Tak' it , he added , thrusting the tray into my hand . 
'Stay one minute , I began . 
'Nay , cried he , and retired , regardless of any prayers I could pour forth to detain him . 
And there I remained enclosed the whole day , and the whole of the next night and another , and another . 
CHAPTER XXVIII ON the fifth morning , or rather afternoon , a different step approached lighter and shorter and , this time , the person entered the room . 
It was Zillah donned in her scarlet shawl , with a black silk bonnet on her head , and a willow basket swung to her arm . 
'Eh , dear ! Mrs. Dean ! she exclaimed . 
'Well ! there is a talk about you at Gimmerton . 
'But he shall answer for it . 
He needn't have raised that tale it shall all be laid bare ! 'What do you mean ? asked Zillah . 
It's a sad pity of that likely young lass , and cant Nelly Dean . 
I thought he had not heard aught , so I told him the rumour . 
The master listened , and he just smiled to himself , and said , If they have been in the marsh , they are out now , Zillah . 
Nelly Dean is lodged , at this minute , in your room . 
You can tell her to flit , when you go up here is the key . 
The bog water got into her head , and she would have run home quite flighty but I fixed her till she came round to her senses . 
Edgar is not dead ? I gasped . 
'Oh ! Zillah , Zillah ! 'No , no sit you down , my good mistress , she replied 'you're right sickly yet . 
He's not dead Doctor Kenneth thinks he may last another day . 
I met him on the road and asked . 
Instead of sitting down , I snatched my outdoor things , and hastened below , for the way was free . 
On entering the house , I looked about for some one to give information of Catherine . 
The place was filled with sunshine , and the door stood wide open but nobody seemed at hand . 
As I hesitated whether to go off at once , or return and seek my mistress , a slight cough drew my attention to the hearth . 
Linton lay on the settle , sole tenant , sucking a stick of sugar candy , and pursuing my movements with apathetic eyes . 
'Where is Miss Catherine ? I demanded sternly , supposing I could frighten him into giving intelligence , by catching him thus , alone . 
He sucked on like an innocent . 
'Is she gone ? I said . 
'No , he replied 'she's upstairs she's not to go we won't let her . 
'You won't let her , little idiot ! I exclaimed . 
'Direct me to her room immediately , or I'll make you sing out sharply . 
'Papa would make you sing out , if you attempted to get there , he answered . 
'He says I'm not to be soft with Catherine she's my wife , and it's shameful that she should wish to leave me . 
And you join him against her . 
That's fine gratitude , is it not ? The corner of Linton's mouth fell , and he took the sugar candy from his lips . 
'Did she come to Wuthering Heights because she hated you ? I continued . 
'Think for yourself ! As to your money , she does not even know that you will have any . 
Ah ! you're a heartless , selfish boy ! 'I can't stay with her , he answered crossly . 
'I'll not stay by myself . 
She cries so I can't bear it . 
And she won't give over , though I say I'll call my father . 
'Is Mr. Heathcliff out ? I inquired , perceiving that the wretched creature had no power to sympathize with his cousin's mental tortures . 
'He's in the court , he replied , 'talking to Doctor Kenneth who says uncle is dying , truly , at last . 
I'm glad , for I shall be master of the Grange after him . 
Catherine always spoke of it as her house . 
It isn't hers ! It's mine papa says everything she has is mine . 
That was yesterday I said they were mine , too and tried to get them from her . 
The spiteful thing wouldn't let me she pushed me off , and hurt me . 
'And were you pleased to see her struck ? I asked having my designs in encouraging his talk . 
'I winked , he answered 'I wink to see my father strike a dog or a horse , he does it so hard . 
I don't like to think so but she's a naughty thing for crying continually and she looks so pale and wild , I'm afraid of her . 
'And you can get the key if you choose ? I said . 
'Yes , when I am up stairs , he answered 'but I can't walk up stairs now . 
'In what apartment is it ? I asked . 
'Oh , he cried , 'I shan't tell YOU where it is . 
Nobody , neither Hareton nor Zillah , is to know . 
There ! you've tired me go away , go away ! And he turned his face on to his arm , and shut his eyes again . 
I considered it best to depart without seeing Mr. Heathcliff , and bring a rescue for my young lady from the Grange . 
How changed I found him , even in those few days ! He lay an image of sadness and resignation awaiting his death . 
Very young he looked though his actual age was thirty nine , one would have called him ten years younger , at least . 
He thought of Catherine for he murmured her name . 
I touched his hand , and spoke . 
'Catherine is coming , dear master ! I whispered 'she is alive and well and will be here , I hope , to night . 
I trembled at the first effects of this intelligence he half rose up , looked eagerly round the apartment , and then sank back in a swoon . 
As soon as he recovered , I related our compulsory visit , and detention at the Heights . 
I said Heathcliff forced me to go in which was not quite true . 
By that means , it could not fall to Mr. Heathcliff should Linton die . 
Having received his orders , I despatched a man to fetch the attorney , and four more , provided with serviceable weapons , to demand my young lady of her jailor . 
Both parties were delayed very late . 
The single servant returned first . 
The four men came back unaccompanied also . 
They brought word that Catherine was ill too ill to quit her room and Heathcliff would not suffer them to see her . 
I put the jug on the banister and hastened to admit him myself . 
The harvest moon shone clear outside . 
It was not the attorney . 
Then I said I must go first , and tell of her arrival imploring her to say , she should be happy with young Heathcliff . 
She stared , but soon comprehending why I counselled her to utter the falsehood , she assured me she would not complain . 
I couldn't abide to be present at their meeting . 
I stood outside the chamber door a quarter of an hour , and hardly ventured near the bed , then . 
All was composed , however Catherine's despair was as silent as her father's joy . 
She supported him calmly , in appearance and he fixed on her features his raised eyes that seemed dilating with ecstasy . 
He died blissfully , Mr. Lockwood he died so . 
None could have noticed the exact minute of his death , it was so entirely without a struggle . 
It was well I succeeded in removing her , for at dinner time appeared the lawyer , having called at Wuthering Heights to get his instructions how to behave . 
He had sold himself to Mr. Heathcliff that was the cause of his delay in obeying my master's summons . 
Fortunately , no thought of worldly affairs crossed the latter's mind , to disturb him , after his daughter's arrival . 
Mr. Green took upon himself to order everything and everybody about the place . 
He gave all the servants but me , notice to quit . 
He would have carried his delegated authority to the point of insisting that Edgar Linton should not be buried beside his wife , but in the chapel , with his family . 
There was the will , however , to hinder that , and my loud protestations against any infringement of its directions . 
The funeral was hurried over Catherine , Mrs. Linton Heathcliff now , was suffered to stay at the Grange till her father's corpse had quitted it . 
She told me that her anguish had at last spurred Linton to incur the risk of liberating her . 
She heard the men I sent disputing at the door , and she gathered the sense of Heathcliff's answer . 
Linton who had been conveyed up to the little parlour soon after I left , was terrified into fetching the key before his father re ascended . 
Catherine stole out before break of day . 
Her accomplice suffered for his share in the escape , notwithstanding his timid contrivances . 
He made no ceremony of knocking or announcing his name he was master , and availed himself of the master's privilege to walk straight in , without saying a word . 
The sound of our informant's voice directed him to the library he entered and motioning him out , shut the door . 
It was the same room into which he had been ushered , as a guest , eighteen years before the same moon shone through the window and the same autumn landscape lay outside . 
Heathcliff advanced to the hearth . 
Time had little altered his person either . 
There was the same man his dark face rather sallower and more composed , his frame a stone or two heavier , perhaps , and no other difference . 
Catherine had risen with an impulse to dash out , when she saw him . 
'Stop ! he said , arresting her by the arm . 
'No more runnings away ! Where would you go ? I'm come to fetch you home and I hope you'll be a dutiful daughter and not encourage my son to further disobedience . 
I sent Hareton out , and we had the room to ourselves . 
'I'm seeking a tenant for the Grange , he answered 'and I want my children about me , to be sure . 
Besides , that lass owes me her services for her bread . 
I'm not going to nurture her in luxury and idleness after Linton is gone . 
Make haste and get ready , now and don't oblige me to compel you . 
'I shall , said Catherine . 
It is not I who will make him hateful to you it is his own sweet spirit . 
He's as bitter as gall at your desertion and its consequences don't expect thanks for this noble devotion . 
'I know he has a bad nature , said Catherine 'he's your son . 
But I'm glad I've a better , to forgive it and I know he loves me , and for that reason I love him . 
Mr. Heathcliff YOU have NOBODY to love you and , however miserable you make us , we shall still have the revenge of thinking that your cruelty arises from your greater misery . 
'You shall be sorry to be yourself presently , said her father in law , 'if you stand there another minute . 
Begone , witch , and get your things ! She scornfully withdrew . 
In her absence I began to beg for Zillah's place at the Heights , offering to resign mine to her but he would suffer it on no account . 
He bid me be silent and then , for the first time , allowed himself a glance round the room and a look at the pictures . 
Having studied Mrs. Linton's , he said 'I shall have that home . 
I shall be a great deal more comfortable now and you'll have a better chance of keeping me underground , when I get there . 
Disturbed her ? No ! she has disturbed me , night and day , through eighteen years incessantly remorselessly till yesternight and yesternight I was tranquil . 
I dreamt I was sleeping the last sleep by that sleeper , with my heart stopped and my cheek frozen against hers . 
'And if she had been dissolved into earth , or worse , what would you have dreamt of then ? I said . 
'Of dissolving with her , and being more happy still ! he answered . 
'Do you suppose I dread any change of that sort ? I expected such a transformation on raising the lid but I'm better pleased that it should not commence till I share it . 
Besides , unless I had received a distinct impression of her passionless features , that strange feeling would hardly have been removed . 
In the evening I went to the churchyard . 
It blew bleak as winter all round was solitary . 
I didn't fear that her fool of a husband would wander up the glen so late and no one else had business to bring them there . 
If I can only get this off , I muttered , I wish they may shovel in the earth over us both ! and I wrenched at it more desperately still . 
There was another sigh , close at my ear . 
I appeared to feel the warm breath of it displacing the sleet laden wind . 
A sudden sense of relief flowed from my heart through every limb . 
I relinquished my labour of agony , and turned consoled at once unspeakably consoled . 
Her presence was with me it remained while I re filled the grave , and led me home . 
You may laugh , if you will but I was sure I should see her there . 
I was sure she was with me , and I could not help talking to her . 
Having reached the Heights , I rushed eagerly to the door . 
It was fastened and , I remember , that accursed Earnshaw and my wife opposed my entrance . 
I remember stopping to kick the breath out of him , and then hurrying up stairs , to my room and hers . 
When I sat in the house with Hareton , it seemed that on going out I should meet her when I walked on the moors I should meet her coming in . 
Now , since I've seen her , I'm pacified a little . 
He only half addressed me , and I maintained silence . 
'Good bye , Ellen ! whispered my dear little mistress . 
As she kissed me , her lips felt like ice . 
'Come and see me , Ellen don't forget . 
'Take care you do no such thing , Mrs. Dean ! said her new father . 
'When I wish to speak to you I'll come here . 
I want none of your prying at my house ! He signed her to precede him and casting back a look that cut my heart , she obeyed . 
I watched them , from the window , walk down the garden . 
Heathcliff fixed Catherine's arm under his though she disputed the act at first evidently and with rapid strides he hurried her into the alley , whose trees concealed them . 
He said Mrs. Linton was 'thrang , and the master was not in . 
Zillah has told me something of the way they go on , otherwise I should hardly know who was dead and who living . 
She thinks Catherine haughty , and does not like her , I can guess by her talk . 
Catherine evinced a child's annoyance at this neglect repaid it with contempt , and thus enlisted my informant among her enemies , as securely as if she had done her some great wrong . 
I had a long talk with Zillah about six weeks ago , a little before you came , one day when we foregathered on the moor and this is what she told me . 
We know that ! answered Heathcliff but his life is not worth a farthing , and I won't spend a farthing on him . 
'How they managed together , I can't tell . 
I fancy he fretted a great deal , and moaned hisseln night and day and she had precious little rest one could guess by her white face and heavy eyes . 
I did pity her then , I'm sure still I didn't wish to lose my place , you know . 
Get up , instantly , and tell him . 
'Having uttered this speech , she vanished again . 
I lay a quarter of an hour listening and trembling . 
Nothing stirred the house was quiet . 
'She's mistaken , I said to myself . 
I needn't disturb them and I began to doze . 
He cursed to himself , and in a few minutes came out with a lighted candle , and proceeded to their room . 
Mrs. Heathcliff was seated by the bedside , with her hands folded on her knees . 
Her father in law went up , held the light to Linton's face , looked at him , and touched him afterwards he turned to her . 
Now Catherine , he said , how do you feel ? 'She was dumb . 
How do you feel , Catherine ? he repeated . 
Hareton and Joseph , who had been wakened by the ringing and the sound of feet , and heard our talk from outside , now entered . 
Joseph was fain , I believe , of the lad's removal Hareton seemed a thought bothered though he was more taken up with staring at Catherine than thinking of Linton . 
But the master bid him get off to bed again we didn't want his help . 
He afterwards made Joseph remove the body to his chamber , and told me to return to mine , and Mrs. Heathcliff remained by herself . 
Heathcliff went up once , to show her Linton's will . 
The lands , being a minor , he could not meddle with . 
'Nobody , said Zillah , 'ever approached her door , except that once , but I and nobody asked anything about her . 
The first occasion of her coming down into the house was on a Sunday afternoon . 
at Gimmerton , a chapel . 
'Joseph had gone , she continued , 'but I thought proper to bide at home . 
Young folks are always the better for an elder's over looking and Hareton , with all his bashfulness , isn't a model of nice behaviour . 
He coloured up at the news , and cast his eyes over his hands and clothes . 
The train oil and gunpowder were shoved out of sight in a minute . 
He grew sullen , and began to swear . 
'Missis walked in , she said , 'as chill as an icicle , and as high as a princess . 
I got up and offered her my seat in the arm chair . 
No , she turned up her nose at my civility . 
Earnshaw rose , too , and bid her come to the settle , and sit close by the fire he was sure she was starved . 
I've been starved a month and more , she answered , resting on the word as scornful as she could . 
'And she got a chair for herself , and placed it at a distance from both of us . 
Her cousin , after watching her endeavours a while , at last summoned courage to help her she held her frock , and he filled it with the first that came to hand . 
'That was a great advance for the lad . 
She continued reading , or seeking for something to read . 
His attention became , by degrees , quite centred in the study of her thick silky curls her face he couldn't see , and she couldn't see him . 
He might have stuck a knife into her neck , she started round in such a taking . 
Get away this moment ! How dare you touch me ? Why are you stopping there ? she cried , in a tone of disgust . 
I can't endure you ! I'll go upstairs again , if you come near me . 
Mr. Hareton wishes you would read to us , ma'am , I said , immediately . 
He'd take it very kind he'd be much obliged . 
But I won't complain to you ! I'm driven down here by the cold not either to amuse you or enjoy your society . 
What could I ha' done ? began Earnshaw . 
How was I to blame ? Oh ! you are an exception , answered Mrs. Heathcliff . 
I never missed such a concern as you . 
'Hareton muttered she might go to hell , for him ! and unslinging his gun , restrained himself from his Sunday occupations no longer . 
She'll snap at the master himself , and as good as dares him to thrash her and the more hurt she gets , the more venomous she grows . 
Thus ended Mrs. Dean's story . 
I would not pass another winter here for much . 
CHAPTER XXXI YESTERDAY was bright , calm , and frosty . 
The fellow is as handsome a rustic as need be seen . 
I took particular notice of him this time but then he does his best apparently to make the least of his advantages . 
I asked if Mr. Heathcliff were at home ? He answered , No but he would be in at dinner time . 
We entered together Catherine was there , making herself useful in preparing some vegetables for the approaching meal she looked more sulky and less spirited than when I had seen her first . 
'She does not seem so amiable , I thought , 'as Mrs. Dean would persuade me to believe . 
She's a beauty , it is true but not an angel . 
Earnshaw surlily bid her remove her things to the kitchen . 
She would gladly have gathered it up at this information , but Hareton beat her he seized and put it in his waistcoat , saying Mr. Heathcliff should look at it first . 
'You must tell her , she continued , 'that I would answer her letter , but I have no materials for writing not even a book from which I might tear a leaf . 
'No books ! I exclaimed . 
'How do you contrive to live here without them ? if I may take the liberty to inquire . 
I have not had a glimpse of one for weeks . 
Hareton is desirous of increasing his amount of knowledge , I said , coming to his rescue . 
'He is not ENVIOUS , but EMULOUS of your attainments . 
He'll be a clever scholar in a few years . 
'And he wants me to sink into a dunce , meantime , answered Catherine . 
Hareton's chest heaved in silence a minute he laboured under a severe sense of mortification and wrath , which it was no easy task to suppress . 
I rose , and , from a gentlemanly idea of relieving his embarrassment , took up my station in the doorway , surveying the external prospect as I stood . 
'I shall connect them with you , and hate them . 
She opened one that had obviously been often turned over , and read a portion in the drawling tone of a beginner then laughed , and threw it from her . 
'And listen , she continued , provokingly , commencing a verse of an old ballad in the same fashion . 
But his self love would endure no further torment I heard , and not altogether disapprovingly , a manual cheek given to her saucy tongue . 
He afterwards gathered the books and hurled them on the fire . 
I read in his countenance what anguish it was to offer that sacrifice to spleen . 
He had been content with daily labour and rough animal enjoyments , till Catherine crossed his path . 
'Yes that's all the good that such a brute as you can get from them ! cried Catherine , sucking her damaged lip , and watching the conflagration with indignant eyes . 
'You'd BETTER hold your tongue , now , he answered fiercely . 
And his agitation precluded further speech he advanced hastily to the entrance , where I made way for him to pass . 
Heathcliff gazed after him , and sighed . 
'It will be odd if I thwart myself , he muttered , unconscious that I was behind him . 
'But when I look for his father in his face , I find HER every day more ! How the devil is he so like ? I can hardly bear to see him . 
He bent his eyes to the ground , and walked moodily in . 
There was a restless , anxious expression in his countenance . 
I had never remarked there before and he looked sparer in person . 
His daughter in law , on perceiving him through the window , immediately escaped to the kitchen , so that I remained alone . 
I've wondered more than once what brought you here . 
'An idle whim , I fear , sir , was my answer 'or else an idle whim is going to spirit me away . 
I shall set out for London next week and I must give you warning that I feel no disposition to retain Thrushcross Grange beyond the twelve months I agreed to rent it . 
I believe I shall not live there any more . 
'Oh , indeed you're tired of being banished from the world , are you ? he said . 
'But if you be coming to plead off paying for a place you won't occupy , your journey is useless I never relent in exacting my due from any one . 
'I'm coming to plead off nothing about it , I exclaimed , considerably irritated . 
'Should you wish it , I'll settle with you now , and I drew my note book from my pocket . 
'No , no , he replied , coolly 'you'll leave sufficient behind to cover your debts , if you fail to return I'm not in such a hurry . 
Sit down and take your dinner with us a guest that is safe from repeating his visit can generally be made welcome . 
Catherine bring the things in where are you ? Catherine reappeared , bearing a tray of knives and forks . 
'You may get your dinner with Joseph , muttered Heathcliff , aside , 'and remain in the kitchen till he is gone . 
She obeyed his directions very punctually perhaps she had no temptation to transgress . 
Living among clowns and misanthropists , she probably cannot appreciate a better class of people when she meets them . 
'How dreary life gets over in that house ! I reflected , while riding down the road . 
This September I was invited to devastate the moors of a friend in the north , and on my journey to his abode , I unexpectedly came within fifteen miles of Gimmerton . 
'Gimmerton ? I repeated my residence in that locality had already grown dim and dreamy . 
How far is it from this ? 'Happen fourteen mile o'er th' hills and a rough road , he answered . 
A sudden impulse seized me to visit Thrushcross Grange . 
It was scarcely noon , and I conceived that I might as well pass the night under my own roof as in an inn . 
Besides , I could spare a day easily to arrange matters with my landlord , and thus save myself the trouble of invading the neighbourhood again . 
Having rested awhile , I directed my servant to inquire the way to the village and , with great fatigue to our beasts , we managed the distance in some three hours . 
I left him there , and proceeded down the valley alone . 
The grey church looked greyer , and the lonely churchyard lonelier . 
I distinguished a moor sheep cropping the short turf on the graves . 
In winter nothing more dreary , in summer nothing more divine , than those glens shut in by hills , and those bluff , bold swells of heath . 
I rode into the court . 
Under the porch , a girl of nine or ten sat knitting , and an old woman reclined on the housesteps , smoking a meditative pipe . 
'Is Mrs. Dean within ? I demanded of the dame . 
'Mistress Dean ? Nay ! she answered , 'she doesn't bide here shoo's up at th' Heights . 
'Are you the housekeeper , then ? I continued . 
'Eea , aw keep th' hause , she replied . 
'Well , I'm Mr. Lockwood , the master . 
Are there any rooms to lodge me in , I wonder ? I wish to stay all night . 
'T' maister ! she cried in astonishment . 
'Whet , whoiver knew yah wur coming ? Yah sud ha' send word . 
I would go out for a walk and , meantime she must try to prepare a corner of a sitting room for me to sup in , and a bedroom to sleep in . 
No sweeping and dusting , only good fire and dry sheets were necessary . 
Wuthering Heights was the goal of my proposed excursion . 
An afterthought brought me back , when I had quitted the court . 
'All well at the Heights ? I inquired of the woman . 
'Eea , f'r owt ee knaw ! she answered , skurrying away with a pan of hot cinders . 
I had neither to climb the gate nor to knock it yielded to my hand . 
That is an improvement , I thought . 
And I noticed another , by the aid of my nostrils a fragrance of stocks and wallflowers wafted on the air from amongst the homely fruit trees . 
'Con TRARY ! said a voice as sweet as a silver bell . 
'That for the third time , you dunce ! I'm not going to tell you again . 
Recollect , or I'll pull your hair ! 'Contrary , then , answered another , in deep but softened tones . 
'And now , kiss me , for minding so well . 
'No , read it over first correctly , without a single mistake . 
The male speaker began to read he was a young man , respectably dressed and seated at a table , having a book before him . 
I could and I bit my lip in spite , at having thrown away the chance I might have had of doing something besides staring at its smiting beauty . 
The task was done , not free from further blunders but the pupil claimed a reward , and received at least five kisses which , however , he generously returned . 
Then they came to the door , and from their conversation I judged they were about to issue out and have a walk on the moors . 
Poor lad ! he added , with a groan 'he's witched I'm sartin on't . 
'But wisht , old man , and read your Bible like a Christian , and never mind me . 
This is Fairy Annie's Wedding a bonny tune it goes to a dance . 
You should have given us notice ! 'I've arranged to be accommodated there , for as long as I shall stay , I answered . 
'I depart again to morrow . 
And how are you transplanted here , Mrs. Dean ? tell me that . 
'Zillah left , and Mr. Heathcliff wished me to come , soon after you went to London , and stay till you returned . 
'What business , sir ? said Nelly , conducting me into the house . 
'He's gone out at present , and won't return soon . 
'About the rent , I answered . 
'Oh ! then it is with Mrs. Heathcliff you must settle , she observed 'or rather with me . 
She has not learnt to manage her affairs yet , and I act for her there's nobody else . 
'Ah ! you have not heard of Heathcliff's death , I see , she continued . 
'Heathcliff dead ! I exclaimed , astonished . 
'How long ago ? 'Three months since but sit down , and let me take your hat , and I'll tell you all about it . 
Stop , you have had nothing to eat , have you ? 'I want nothing I have ordered supper at home . 
I never dreamt of his dying ! Let me hear how it came to pass . 
You say you don't expect them back for some time the young people ? 'No I have to scold them every evening for their late rambles but they don't care for me . 
At least , have a drink of our old ale it will do you good you seem weary . 
She did not stay to retaliate , but re entered in a minute , bearing a reaming silver pint , whose contents I lauded with becoming earnestness . 
And afterwards she furnished me with the sequel of Heathcliff's history . 
He had a 'queer' end , as she expressed it . 
I was summoned to Wuthering Heights , within a fortnight of your leaving us , she said and I obeyed joyfully , for Catherine's sake . 
My first interview with her grieved and shocked me she had altered so much since our separation . 
It was enough if he were obliged to see her once or twice a day . 
The delusion did not last long . 
Catherine , contented at first , in a brief space grew irritable and restless . 
'He's , perhaps , dreaming now , she continued . 
'He twitched his shoulder as Juno twitches hers . 
Hareton will ask the master to send you up stairs , if you don't behave ! I said . 
He had not only twitched his shoulder but clenched his fist , as if tempted to use it . 
'I know why Hareton never speaks , when I am in the kitchen , she exclaimed , on another occasion . 
'He is afraid I shall laugh at him . 
'Perhaps I was , she went on 'but I did not expect him to be so silly . 
'Well , I shall put it here , she said , 'in the table drawer and I'm going to bed . 
Then she whispered me to watch whether he touched it , and departed . 
But he would not come near it and so I informed her in the morning , to her great disappointment . 
I saw she was sorry for his persevering sulkiness and indolence her conscience reproved her for frightening him off improving himself she had done it effectually . 
Mr. Heathcliff , who grew more and more disinclined to society , had almost banished Earnshaw from his apartment . 
Owing to an accident at the commencement of March , he became for some days a fixture in the kitchen . 
His gun burst while out on the hills by himself a splinter cut his arm , and he lost a good deal of blood before he could reach home . 
The consequence was that , perforce , he was condemned to the fireside and tranquillity , till he made it up again . 
On Easter Monday , Joseph went to Gimmerton fair with some cattle and , in the afternoon , I was busy getting up linen in the kitchen . 
At a notice that I could do with her no longer intercepting my light , she removed to the hearthstone . 
'Hareton , Hareton , Hareton ! do you hear ? she continued . 
'Get off wi' ye ! he growled , with uncompromising gruffness . 
'Let me take that pipe , she said , cautiously advancing her hand and abstracting it from his mouth . 
Before he could attempt to recover it , it was broken , and behind the fire . 
He swore at her and seized another . 
'Stop , she cried , 'you must listen to me first and I can't speak while those clouds are floating in my face . 
When I call you stupid , I don't mean anything I don't mean that I despise you . 
Come , you shall take notice of me , Hareton you are my cousin , and you shall own me . 
'I shall have naught to do wi' you and your mucky pride , and your damned mocking tricks ! he answered . 
'I'll go to hell , body and soul , before I look sideways after you again . 
'You should be friends with your cousin , Mr. Hareton , I interrupted , 'since she repents of her sauciness . 
It would do you a great deal of good it would make you another man to have her for a companion . 
'It is not I who hate you , it is you who hate me ! wept Cathy , no longer disguising her trouble . 
'You hate me as much as Mr. Heathcliff does , and more . 
He blackened and scowled like a thunder cloud , and kept his fists resolutely clenched , and his gaze fixed on the ground . 
The little rogue thought I had not seen her , and , drawing back , she took her former station by the window , quite demurely . 
Catherine employed herself in wrapping a handsome book neatly in white paper , and having tied it with a bit of ribbon , and addressed it to 'Mr . 
Hareton Earnshaw , she desired me to be her ambassadress , and convey the present to its destined recipient . 
I carried it , and repeated the message anxiously watched by my employer . 
Hareton would not open his fingers , so I laid it on his knee . 
He did not strike it off , either . 
I returned to my work . 
Catherine leaned her head and arms on the table , till she heard the slight rustle of the covering being removed then she stole away , and quietly seated herself beside her cousin . 
'Say you forgive me , Hareton , do . 
You can make me so happy by speaking that little word . 
'And you'll be my friend ? added Catherine , interrogatively . 
'Nay , you'll be ashamed of me every day of your life , he answered 'and the more ashamed , the more you know me and I cannot bide it . 
'So you won't be my friend ? she said , smiling as sweet as honey , and creeping close up . 
The work they studied was full of costly pictures and those and their position had charm enough to keep them unmoved till Joseph came home . 
At length he summoned Hareton from his seat . 
'Tak' these in to t' maister , lad , he said , 'and bide there . 
I's gang up to my own rahm . 
This hoile's neither mensful nor seemly for us we mun side out and seearch another . 
'Come , Catherine , I said , 'we must side out too I've done my ironing . 
Are you ready to go ? 'It is not eight o'clock ! she answered , rising unwillingly . 
'Hareton , I'll leave this book upon the chimney piece , and I'll bring some more to morrow . 
The intimacy thus commenced grew rapidly though it encountered temporary interruptions . 
You see , Mr. Lockwood , it was easy enough to win Mrs. Heathcliff's heart . 
But now , I'm glad you did not try . 
The crown of all my wishes will be the union of those two . 
'There ! That will be all shown to the master , I exclaimed , 'the minute it is discovered . 
We always ate our meals with Mr. Heathcliff . 
I held the mistress's post in making tea and carving so I was indispensable at table . 
Catherine usually sat by me , but to day she stole nearer to Hareton and I presently saw she would have no more discretion in her friendship than she had in her hostility . 
'Now , mind you don't talk with and notice your cousin too much , were my whispered instructions as we entered the room . 
'It will certainly annoy Mr. Heathcliff , and he'll be mad at you both . 
'I'm not going to , she answered . 
The minute after , she had sidled to him , and was sticking primroses in his plate of porridge . 
He dared not speak to her there he dared hardly look and yet she went on teasing , till he was twice on the point of being provoked to laugh . 
Afterwards she turned , and recommenced her nonsense at last , Hareton uttered a smothered laugh . 
Mr. Heathcliff started his eye rapidly surveyed our faces , Catherine met it with her accustomed look of nervousness and yet defiance , which he abhorred . 
'It is well you are out of my reach , he exclaimed . 
'What fiend possesses you to stare back at me , continually , with those infernal eyes ? Down with them ! and don't remind me of your existence again . 
I thought I had cured you of laughing . 
'It was me , muttered Hareton . 
'What do you say ? demanded the master . 
Hareton looked at his plate , and did not repeat the confession . 
Mr. Heathcliff looked at him a bit , and then silently resumed his breakfast and his interrupted musing . 
She may thrust you into the coal hole for anything I care . 
'It's noan Nelly ! answered Joseph . 
'I sudn't shift for Nelly nasty ill nowt as shoo is . 
Thank God ! SHOO cannot stale t' sowl o' nob'dy ! Shoo wer niver soa handsome , but what a body mud look at her 'bout winking . 
'Is the fool drunk ? asked Mr. Heathcliff . 
'Hareton , is it you he's finding fault with ? 'I've pulled up two or three bushes , replied the young man 'but I'm going to set 'em again . 
'And why have you pulled them up ? said the master . 
Catherine wisely put in her tongue . 
'We wanted to plant some flowers there , she cried . 
'I'm the only person to blame , for I wished him to do it . 
'And who the devil gave YOU leave to touch a stick about the place ? demanded her father in law , much surprised . 
'And who ordered YOU to obey her ? he added , turning to Hareton . 
'And my money , she continued returning his angry glare , and meantime biting a piece of crust , the remnant of her breakfast . 
'Get done , and begone ! 'And Hareton's land , and his money , pursued the reckless thing . 
'If you strike me , Hareton will strike you , she said 'so you may as well sit down . 
'If Hareton does not turn you out of the room , I'll strike him to hell , thundered Heathcliff . 
'Drag her away ! he cried , savagely . 
'Are you staying to talk ? And he approached to execute his own command . 
'He'll not obey you , wicked man , any more , said Catherine 'and he'll soon detest you as much as I do . 
'Wisht ! wisht ! muttered the young man , reproachfully 'I will not hear you speak so to him . 
'But you won't let him strike me ? she cried . 
'Come , then , he whispered earnestly . 
It was too late Heathcliff had caught hold of her . 
'Now , YOU go ! he said to Earnshaw . 
I had counselled Catherine to dine up stairs but , as soon as he perceived her vacant seat , he sent me to call her . 
He spoke to none of us , ate very little , and went out directly afterwards , intimating that he should not return before evening . 
When this slight disagreement was over , they were friends again , and as busy as possible in their several occupations of pupil and teacher . 
While I admired and they laboured , dusk drew on , and with it returned the master . 
He came upon us quite unexpectedly , entering by the front way , and had a full view of the whole three , ere we could raise our heads to glance at him . 
Well , I reflected , there was never a pleasanter , or more harmless sight and it will be a burning shame to scold them . 
They lifted their eyes together , to encounter Mr. Heathcliff perhaps you have never remarked that their eyes are precisely similar , and they are those of Catherine Earnshaw . 
With Hareton the resemblance is carried farther it is singular at all times , THEN it was particularly striking because his senses were alert , and his mental faculties wakened to unwonted activity . 
It is far from being the case I have lost the faculty of enjoying their destruction , and I am too idle to destroy for nothing . 
'Nelly , there is a strange change approaching I'm in its shadow at present . 
I take so little interest in my daily life that I hardly remember to eat and drink . 
Those two who have left the room are the only objects which retain a distinct material appearance to me and that appearance causes me pain , amounting to agony . 
About HER I won't speak and I don't desire to think but I earnestly wish she were invisible her presence invokes only maddening sensations . 
But you'll not talk of what I tell you and my mind is so eternally secluded in itself , it is tempting at last to turn it out to another . 
In the first place , his startling likeness to Catherine connected him fearfully with her . 
I can give them no attention any more . 
He might have had a monomania on the subject of his departed idol but on every other point his wits were as sound as mine . 
'I shall not know that till it comes , he said 'I'm only half conscious of it now . 
'You have no feeling of illness , have you ? I asked . 
'No , Nelly , I have not , he answered . 
'Then you are not afraid of death ? I pursued . 
'Afraid ? No ! he replied . 
'I have neither a fear , nor a presentiment , nor a hope of death . 
I have a single wish , and my whole being and faculties are yearning to attain it . 
My confessions have not relieved me but they may account for some otherwise unaccountable phases of humour which I show . 
I wondered greatly how it would end . 
CHAPTER XXXIV FOR some days after that evening Mr. Heathcliff shunned meeting us at meals yet he would not consent formally to exclude Hareton and Cathy . 
He had an aversion to yielding so completely to his feelings , choosing rather to absent himself and eating once in twenty four hours seemed sufficient sustenance for him . 
One night , after the family were in bed , I heard him go downstairs , and out at the front door . 
I did not hear him re enter , and in the morning I found he was still away . 
'And he spoke to me , she added , with a perplexed countenance . 
'What did he say ? asked Hareton . 
'He told me to begone as fast as I could , she answered . 
'But he looked so different from his usual look that I stopped a moment to stare at him . 
'Why , almost bright and cheerful . 
No , ALMOST nothing VERY MUCH excited , and wild , and glad ! she replied . 
I framed an excuse to go in . 
'Will you have some breakfast ? I said . 
'You must be hungry , rambling about all night ! I wanted to discover where he had been , but I did not like to ask directly . 
'No , I'm not hungry , he answered , averting his head , and speaking rather contemptuously , as if he guessed I was trying to divine the occasion of his good humour . 
I felt perplexed I didn't know whether it were not a proper opportunity to offer a bit of admonition . 
'I don't think it right to wander out of doors , I observed , 'instead of being in bed it is not wise , at any rate this moist season . 
I obeyed and , in passing , I noticed he breathed as fast as a cat . 
'Yes ! I reflected to myself , 'we shall have a fit of illness . 
I cannot conceive what he has been doing . 
That noon he sat down to dinner with us , and received a heaped up plate from my hands , as if he intended to make amends for previous fasting . 
'I've neither cold nor fever , Nelly , he remarked , in allusion to my morning's speech 'and I'm ready to do justice to the food you give me . 
He took his knife and fork , and was going to commence eating , when the inclination appeared to become suddenly extinct . 
He laid them on the table , looked eagerly towards the window , then rose and went out . 
'Well , is he coming ? cried Catherine , when her cousin returned . 
I will ask what is the matter , I thought or who should ? And I exclaimed 'Have you heard any good news , Mr. Heathcliff ? You look uncommonly animated . 
'Where should good news come from to me ? he said . 
'I'm animated with hunger and , seemingly , I must not eat . 
'Your dinner is here , I returned 'why won't you get it ? 'I don't want it now , he muttered , hastily 'I'll wait till supper . 
And , Nelly , once for all , let me beg you to warn Hareton and the other away from me . 
I wish to be troubled by nobody I wish to have this place to myself . 
'Is there some new reason for this banishment ? I inquired . 
Last night I was on the threshold of hell . 
To day , I am within sight of my heaven . 
Having swept the hearth and wiped the table , I departed more perplexed than ever . 
He was leaning against the ledge of an open lattice , but not looking out his face was turned to the interior gloom . 
I uttered an ejaculation of discontent at seeing the dismal grate , and commenced shutting the casements , one after another , till I came to his . 
'Must I close this ? I asked , in order to rouse him for he would not stir . 
The light flashed on his features as I spoke . 
'Yes , close it , he replied , in his familiar voice . 
'There , that is pure awkwardness ! Why did you hold the candle horizontally ? Be quick , and bring another . 
I hurried out in a foolish state of dread , and said to Joseph 'The master wishes you to take him a light and rekindle the fire . 
For I dared not go in myself again just then . 
'Is he a ghoul or a vampire ? I mused . 
I had read of such hideous incarnate demons . 
'But where did he come from , the little dark thing , harboured by a good man to his bane ? muttered Superstition , as I dozed into unconsciousness . 
That came true we were . 
If you enter the kirkyard , you'll read , on his headstone , only that , and the date of his death . 
Dawn restored me to common sense . 
I rose , and went into the garden , as soon as I could see , to ascertain if there were any footmarks under his window . 
'He has stayed at home , I thought , 'and he'll be all right to day . 
I prepared breakfast for the household , as was my usual custom , but told Hareton and Catherine to get theirs ere the master came down , for he lay late . 
They preferred taking it out of doors , under the trees , and I set a little table to accommodate them . 
On my re entrance , I found Mr. Heathcliff below . 
When Joseph quitted the room he took his seat in the place he generally chose , and I put a basin of coffee before him . 
'Come now , I exclaimed , pushing some bread against his hand , 'eat and drink that , while it is hot it has been waiting near an hour . 
He didn't notice me , and yet he smiled . 
I'd rather have seen him gnash his teeth than smile so . 
Heathcliff ! master ! I cried , 'don't , for God's sake , stare as if you saw an unearthly vision . 
'Don't , for God's sake , shout so loud , he replied . 
'Turn round , and tell me , are we by ourselves ? 'Of course , was my answer 'of course we are . 
Still , I involuntarily obeyed him , as if I was not quite sure . 
With a sweep of his hand he cleared a vacant space in front among the breakfast things , and leant forward to gaze more at his ease . 
Now , I perceived he was not looking at the wall for when I regarded him alone , it seemed exactly that he gazed at something within two yards' distance . 
And whatever it was , it communicated , apparently , both pleasure and pain in exquisite extremes at least the anguished , yet raptured , expression of his countenance suggested that idea . 
The fancied object was not fixed , either his eyes pursued it with unwearied diligence , and , even in speaking to me , were never weaned away . 
Having uttered these words he left the house , slowly sauntered down the garden path , and disappeared through the gate . 
The hours crept anxiously by another evening came . 
I did not retire to rest till late , and when I did , I could not sleep . 
He returned after midnight , and , instead of going to bed , shut himself into the room beneath . 
I listened , and tossed about , and , finally , dressed and descended . 
It was too irksome to lie there , harassing my brain with a hundred idle misgivings . 
I distinguished Mr. Heathcliff's step , restlessly measuring the floor , and he frequently broke the silence by a deep inspiration , resembling a groan . 
It drew him forth sooner than I expected . 
He opened the door immediately , and said 'Nelly , come here is it morning ? Come in with your light . 
'It is striking four , I answered . 
'You want a candle to take up stairs you might have lit one at this fire . 
'No , I don't wish to go up stairs , he said . 
'Come in , and kindle ME a fire , and do anything there is to do about the room . 
I have not written my will yet and how to leave my property I cannot determine . 
I wish I could annihilate it from the face of the earth . 
'I would not talk so , Mr. Heathcliff , I interposed . 
The way you've passed these three last days might knock up a Titan . 
Do take some food , and some repose . 
You need only look at yourself in a glass to see how you require both . 
Your cheeks are hollow , and your eyes blood shot , like a person starving with hunger and going blind with loss of sleep . 
'It is not my fault that I cannot eat or rest , he replied . 
'I assure you it is through no settled designs . 
I'll do both , as soon as I possibly can . 
But you might as well bid a man struggling in the water rest within arms' length of the shore ! I must reach it first , and then I'll rest . 
Well , never mind Mr. Green as to repenting of my injustices , I've done no injustice , and I repent of nothing . 
I'm too happy and yet I'm not happy enough . 
My soul's bliss kills my body , but does not satisfy itself . 
'Happy , master ? I cried . 
'Strange happiness ! If you would hear me without being angry , I might offer some advice that would make you happier . 
'What is that ? he asked . 
You must have forgotten the contents of the book , and you may not have space to search it now . 
It is to be carried to the churchyard in the evening . 
I tell you I have nearly attained MY heaven and that of others is altogether unvalued and uncovered by me . 
I declined telling him plainly that his strange talk and manner frightened me , and I had neither the nerve nor the will to be his companion alone . 
'I believe you think me a fiend , he said , with his dismal laugh 'something too horrible to live under a decent roof . 
No ! to you I've made myself worse than the devil . 
Well , there is ONE who won't shrink from my company ! By God ! she's relentless . 
Oh , damn it ! It's unutterably too much for flesh and blood to bear even mine . 
He solicited the society of no one more . 
At dusk he went into his chamber . 
Through the whole night , and far into the morning , we heard him groaning and murmuring to himself . 
Hareton was anxious to enter but I bid him fetch Mr. Kenneth , and he should go in and see him . 
When he came , and I requested admittance and tried to open the door , I found it locked and Heathcliff bid us be damned . 
He was better , and would be left alone so the doctor went away . 
He cannot be in bed , I thought those showers would drench him through . 
He must either be up or out . 
But I'll make no more ado , I'll go boldly and look . 
Having succeeded in obtaining entrance with another key , I ran to unclose the panels , for the chamber was vacant quickly pushing them aside , I peeped in . 
Mr. Heathcliff was there laid on his back . 
His eyes met mine so keen and fierce , I started and then he seemed to smile . 
I could not think him dead but his face and throat were washed with rain the bed clothes dripped , and he was perfectly still . 
Joseph shuffled up and made a noise , but resolutely refused to meddle with him . 
I felt stunned by the awful event and my memory unavoidably recurred to former times with a sort of oppressive sadness . 
But poor Hareton , the most wronged , was the only one who really suffered much . 
He sat by the corpse all night , weeping in bitter earnest . 
Mr. Kenneth was perplexed to pronounce of what disorder the master died . 
We buried him , to the scandal of the whole neighbourhood , as he wished . 
Earnshaw and I , the sexton , and six men to carry the coffin , comprehended the whole attendance . 
The six men departed when they had let it down into the grave we stayed to see it covered . 
'What is the matter , my little man ? I asked . 
'There's Heathcliff and a woman yonder , under t' nab , he blubbered , 'un' I darnut pass 'em . 
I saw nothing but neither the sheep nor he would go on so I bid him take the road lower down . 
He probably raised the phantoms from thinking , as he traversed the moors alone , on the nonsense he had heard his parents and companions repeat . 
'They are going to the Grange , then ? I said . 
'Yes , answered Mrs. Dean , 'as soon as they are married , and that will be on New Year's Day . 
'And who will live here then ? 'Why , Joseph will take care of the house , and , perhaps , a lad to keep him company . 
They will live in the kitchen , and the rest will be shut up . 
'For the use of such ghosts as choose to inhabit it ? I observed . 
'No , Mr. Lockwood , said Nelly , shaking her head . 
'I believe the dead are at peace but it is not right to speak of them with levity . 
At that moment the garden gate swung to the ramblers were returning . 
'THEY are afraid of nothing , I grumbled , watching their approach through the window . 
'Together , they would brave Satan and all his legions . 
My walk home was lengthened by a diversion in the direction of the kirk . 
