Wild Wales by George Borrow Scanned and proofed by David Price email ccx coventry . 
The inhabitants , who speak an ancient and peculiar language , do not call this region Wales , nor themselves Welsh . 
They call themselves Cymry or Cumry , and their country Cymru , or the land of the Cumry . 
Wales signifies a land of mountains , of vales , of dingles , chasms , and springs . 
But it is not for its scenery alone that Wales is deserving of being visited scenery soon palls unless it is associated with remarkable events , and the names of remarkable men . 
Perhaps there is no country in the whole world which has been the scene of events more stirring and remarkable than those recorded in the history of Wales . 
Of remarkable men Wales has assuredly produced its full share . 
For men of genius Wales during a long period was particularly celebrated . 
But Wales has something besides its wonderful scenery , its eventful history , and its illustrious men of yore to interest the visitor . 
Wales has a population , and a remarkable one . 
If Wales has been a land of song , have not the Highlands also ? If Wales can boast of Ab Gwilym and Gronwy , the Highlands can boast of Ossian and MacIntyre . 
The present is a book about Wales and Welsh matters . 
An account of the language of Wales will be found in the last chapter . 
WILD WALES ITS PEOPLE , LANGUAGE , AND SCENERY CHAPTER I Proposed Excursion Knowledge of Welsh Singular Groom Harmonious Distich Welsh Pronunciation Dafydd Ab Gwilym . 
IN the summer of the year myself , wife , and daughter determined upon going into Wales , to pass a few months there . 
We were undetermined for some time with respect to where we should go . 
A queer groom he was , and well deserving of having his portrait drawn . 
He wore a leather hat on ordinary days , low at the crown , and with the side eaves turned up . 
To these he made no reply save by looks , which had in them something dangerous and menacing , and clenching without raising his fists , which looked singularly hard and horny . 
It had , however , a very different effect upon me . 
I succeeded how I will not trouble the reader with describing he and I became great friends , and he taught me what Welsh he could . 
Had you much difficulty in acquiring the sound of the ll ? I think I hear the reader inquire . 
This feature I had observed in the Irish , which I had then only learnt by ear . 
But to return to the groom . 
He was really a remarkable character , and taught me two or three things besides Welsh pronunciation and to discourse a little in Cumraeg . 
After this exordium I think I may proceed to narrate the journey of myself and family into Wales . 
CHAPTER II The Starting Peterborough Cathedral Anglo Saxon Names Kaempe Viser Steam Norman Barons Chester Ale Sion Tudor Pretty Welsh Tongue . 
We proceeded no farther on our journey that day , in order that we might have an opportunity of seeing the cathedral . 
After having strolled about the edifice surveying it until we were weary , we returned to our inn , and after taking an excellent supper retired to rest . 
At ten o'clock next morning we left the capital of the meads . 
At Birmingham station I became a modern Englishman , enthusiastically proud of modern England's science and energy that station alone is enough to make one proud of being a modern Englishman . 
Oh , what an idea does that station , with its thousand trains dashing off in all directions , or arriving from all quarters , give of modern English science and energy . 
They were remains of castles built by Norman Barons . 
Well , the tea , loaf and butter made their appearance , and with them my cheese and ale . 
I'll now see whether the ale is drinkable so I took a little of the ale into my mouth , and instantly going to the window , spirted it out after the cheese . 
Well ! if I have been deceived in the cheese , I have at any rate not been deceived in the ale , which I expected to find execrable . 
Patience ! I shall not fall into a passion , more especially as there are things I can fall back upon . 
Wife ! I will trouble you for a cup of tea . 
Henrietta ! have the kindness to cut me a slice of bread and butter . 
CHAPTER III Chester The Rows Lewis Glyn Cothi Tragedy of Mold Native of Antigua Slavery and the Americans The Tents Saturday Night . 
Within the rows , of which there are three or four , are shops , every shop being on that side which is farthest from the street . 
All the best shops in Chester are to be found in the rows . 
These rows , to which you ascend by stairs up narrow passages , were originally built for the security of the wares of the principal merchants against the Welsh . 
These rows and the walls are certainly the most remarkable memorials of old times which Chester has to boast of . 
Upon the walls it is possible to make the whole compass of the city , there being a good but narrow walk upon them . 
The northern wall abuts upon a frightful ravine , at the bottom of which is a canal . 
From the western one there is a noble view of the Welsh hills . 
As I stood gazing upon the hills from the wall a ragged man came up and asked for charity . 
Can you tell me the name of that tall hill ? said I , pointing in the direction of the south west . 
That hill , sir , said the beggar , is called Moel Vamagh I ought to know something about it as I was born at its foot . 
Moel , said I , a bald hill Vamagh , maternal or motherly . 
Moel Vamagh , the Mother Moel . 
Did you ever hear of a place called Mold ? said I. Oh , yes , your honour , said the beggar many a time and many's the time I have been there . 
Thank you , said I , and gave something to the beggar , who departed , after first taking off his hat . 
Long and fixedly did I gaze in the direction of Mold . 
This man , who was a native of South Wales , flourished during the wars of the Roses . 
I apologised , and contrived to enter into conversation with him . 
He told me he was a native of Antigua , a blacksmith by trade , and had been a slave . 
I asked him if he could speak any language besides English , and received for answer that besides English , he could speak Spanish and French . 
Forthwith I spoke to him in Spanish , but he did not understand me . 
I then asked him to speak to me in Spanish , but he could not . 
Surely you can tell me the word for water in Spanish , said I he , however , was not able . 
I spoke to him in French he did not understand me I told him to speak to me in French , but he did not . 
I then asked him the word for bread in French , but he could not tell me . 
I asked him if he did not work now that he was free ? He said very seldom that he did not like work , and that it did not agree with him . 
I asked him if he had done so . 
He said he had , and that the religious people were very kind to him , and gave him money , and that a religious lady was going to marry him . 
I asked him if he knew anything about the Americans ? He said he did , and that they were very bad people , who kept slaves and flogged them . 
And quite right too , said I , if they are lazy rascals like yourself , who want to eat without working . 
Having walked round the city for the second time , I returned to the inn . 
In the evening I went out again , passed over the bridge , and then turned to the right in the direction of the hills . 
Near the river , on my right , on a kind of green , I observed two or three tents resembling those of gypsies . 
I did not go up to them , but continued my course till I arrived near a large factory . 
I then turned and retraced my steps into the town . 
It was Saturday night , and the streets were crowded with people , many of whom must have been Welsh , as I heard the Cambrian language spoken on every side . 
CHAPTER IV Sunday Morning Tares and Wheat Teetotalism Hearsay Irish Family What Profession ? Sabbath Evening Priest or Minister Give us God . 
We finished our breakfast , and at eleven attended divine service at the Cathedral . 
The interior of this holy edifice was smooth and neat , strangely contrasting with its exterior , which was rough and weather beaten . 
We had decent places found us by a civil verger , who probably took us for what we were decent country people . 
We heard much fine chanting by the choir , and an admirable sermon , preached by a venerable prebend , on Tares and Wheat . 
The congregation was numerous and attentive . 
After service we returned to our inn , and at two o'clock dined . 
Another succeeded him , who , after speaking for about half an hour , was succeeded by another . 
All the discourses were vulgar and fanatical , and in some instances unintelligible at least to my ears . 
There was plenty of vociferation , but not one single burst of eloquence . 
At length he said After all , brethren , such drinking is no joking matter , for it is the root of all evil . 
Let nothing pass your lips , in the shape of drink , stronger than water or tea . 
Brethren , if you would cheat the Devil , take the pledge and become teetotalers . 
I am a teetotaller myself , thank God though once I was a regular lushington . 
It was only the other day I saw him reeling out of a gin shop . 
I stayed listening to these people till evening was at hand . 
I then left them , and without returning to the inn strolled over the bridge to the green , where the tents stood . 
One of the women was about forty , the other some twenty years younger both were ugly . 
I gave them the seal of the evening . 
Fine weather , said I. Very , sir , said the elder female . 
Won't you please to sit down ? and reaching back into the tent , she pulled out a stool which she placed near me . 
I sat down on the stool . 
You are not from these parts ? said I , addressing myself to the man . 
We are not , your haner , said the man we are from Ireland . 
And this lady , said I , motioning with my head to the elder female , is , I suppose , your wife . 
She is , your haner , and the children which your haner sees are my children . 
And who is this young lady ? said I , motioning to the uncouth looking girl . 
The young lady , as your haner is pleased to call her , is a daughter of a sister of mine who is now dead , along with her husband . 
We have her with us , your haner , because if we did not she would be alone in the world . 
And what trade or profession do you follow ? said I. We do a bit in the tinkering line , your haner . 
Do you find tinkering a very profitable profession ? said I. Not very , your haner but we contrive to get a crust and a drink by it . 
That's more than I ever could , said I. Has your haner then ever followed tinkering ? said the man . 
Yes , said I , but I soon left off . 
And became a minister , said the elder female , Well , your honour is not the first indifferent tinker that's turned out a shining minister . 
Why do you think me a minister ? Because your honour has the very look and voice of one . 
Oh , it was kind in your honour to come to us here in the Sabbath evening , in order that you might bring us God . 
What do you mean by bringing you God ? said I. Talking to us about good things , sir , and instructing us out of the Holy Book . 
Yes , I see you are a priest . 
Then you are a minister I am sure you are either a priest or a minister . 
Oh sir , pull out the Holy Book , and instruct us from it this blessed Sabbath evening . 
If you are a minister , and a good minister , I would as soon listen to your words as those of Father Toban himself . 
And who is Father Toban ? A powerful priest in these parts , sir , who has more than once eased me of my sins , and given me God upon the cross . 
Oh , a powerful and comfortable priest is Father Toban . 
The man is a good man , and he will do us no harm . 
We are tinkers , sir but we do many things besides tinkering , many sinful things , especially in Wales , whither we are soon going again . 
We do not want your money , sir , screamed the woman after me we have plenty of money . 
CHAPTER V Welsh Book Stall Wit and Poetry Welsh of Chester Beautiful Morning Noble Fellow The Coiling Serpent Wrexham Church Welsh or English ? Codiad yr Ehedydd . 
ON the afternoon of Monday I sent my family off by the train to Llangollen , which place we had determined to make our head quarters during our stay in Wales . 
The proprietor , a short red faced man , observing me reading the book , asked me if I could understand it . 
I told him that I could . 
If so , said he , let me hear you translate the two lines on the title page . 
Are you a Welshman ? said I. I am ! he replied . 
The book was the life of the Rev . 
I returned to the inn and dined , and then yearning for society , descended into the kitchen and had some conversation with the Welsh maid . 
She told me that there were a great many Welsh in Chester from all parts of Wales , but chiefly from Denbighshire and Flintshire , which latter was her own country . 
That a great many children were born in Chester of Welsh parents , and brought up in the fear of God and love of the Welsh tongue . 
That there were some who had never been in Wales , who spoke as good Welsh as herself , or better . 
Late in the evening I directed my steps across the bridge to the green , where I had discoursed with the Irish itinerants . 
On arriving at the green , however , I found them gone , and no traces of them but the mark of their fire and a little dirty straw . 
I returned , disappointed and vexed , to my inn . 
Many come to this place to look about them . 
I gave him the seal of the morning , and asked whether he was Welsh or English . 
English , Measter , English born t'other side of Beeston , pure Cheshire , Measter . 
I suppose , said I , there are few Welshmen such big fellows as yourself . 
You are a noble fellow , said I , and a credit to Cheshire . 
Will you have sixpence to drink ? Thank you , Measter , I shall stop at Pulford , and shall be glad to drink your health in a jug of ale . 
I gave him sixpence , and descended the hill on one side , while he , with his team , descended it on the other . 
A genuine Saxon , said I I daresay just like many of those who , under Hengist , subdued the plains of Lloegr and Britain . 
Taliesin called the Saxon race the Coiling Serpent . 
He had better have called it the Big Bull . 
It is a stirring bustling place , of much traffic , and of several thousand inhabitants . 
Its most remarkable object is its church , which stands at the south western side . 
To this church , after wandering for some time about the streets , I repaired . 
The nave of the church is to the east it is of two stories , both crenulated at the top . 
I wished to see the interior of the church , but found the gate locked . 
He was a large bulky man of about the middle age , and his companions were about the same age and size as himself . 
I asked them if they were Welsh . 
Yes , sir , said one , I suppose we are , for they call us Welsh . 
I asked if any of them could speak Welsh . 
No , sir , said the man , all the Welsh that any of us know , or indeed wish to know , is 'Cwrw da . 
Here there was a general laugh . 
Cwrw da signifies good ale . 
I at first thought that the words might be intended as a hint for a treat , but was soon convinced of the contrary . 
There was no greedy expectation in his eyes , nor , indeed , in those of his companions , though they all looked as if they were fond of good ale . 
I inquired whether much Welsh was spoken in the town , and was told very little . 
When the man returned with the clerk I thanked him . 
He told me I was welcome , and then went and leaned with his back against the wall . 
He and his mates were probably a set of boon companions enjoying the air after a night's bout at drinking . 
I was subsequently told that all the people of Wrexham are fond of good ale . 
The clerk unlocked the church door , and conducted me in . 
The interior was modern , but in no respects remarkable . 
The clerk informed me that there was a Welsh service every Sunday afternoon in the church , but that few people attended , and those few were almost entirely from the country . 
He said that neither he nor the clergyman were natives of Wrexham . 
He showed me the Welsh Church Bible , and at my request read a few verses from the sacred volume . 
He seemed a highly intelligent man . 
I gave him something , which appeared to be more than he expected , and departed , after inquiring of him the road to Llangollen . 
I crossed a bridge , for there is a bridge and a stream too at Wrexham . 
The road at first bore due west , but speedily took a southerly direction . 
I moved rapidly over an undulating country a region of hills , or rather of mountains lay on my right hand . 
At the entrance of a small village a poor , sickly looking woman asked me for charity . 
Are you Welsh or English ? said I. Welsh , she replied but I speak both languages , as do all the people here . 
I gave her a halfpenny she wished me luck , and I proceeded . 
I observed in this place nothing remarkable , but an ancient church . 
My way from hence lay nearly west . 
I ascended a hill , from the top of which I looked down into a smoky valley . 
I descended , passing by a great many collieries , in which I observed grimy men working amidst smoke and flame . 
At the bottom of the hill near a bridge I turned round . 
A ridge to the east particularly struck my attention it was covered with dusky edifices , from which proceeded thundering sounds , and puffs of smoke . 
A woman passed me going towards Rhiwabon I pointed to the ridge and asked its name I spoke English . 
The woman shook her head and replied Dim Saesneg . 
This is as it should be , said I to myself I now feel I am in Wales . 
I repeated the question in Welsh . 
Cefn Bach , she replied which signifies the little ridge . 
Diolch iti , I replied , and proceeded on my way . 
I was now in a wild valley enormous hills were on my right . 
The road was good , and above it , in the side of a steep bank , was a causeway intended for foot passengers . 
It was overhung with hazel bushes . 
I walked along it to its termination which was at Llangollen . 
I found my wife and daughter at the principal inn . 
They had already taken a house . 
We dined together at the inn during the dinner we had music , for a Welsh harper stationed in the passage played upon his instrument Codiad yr ehedydd . 
Of a surety , said I , I am in Wales ! CHAPTER VI Llangollen Wyn Ab Nudd The Dee Dinas Bran . 
THE northern side of the vale of Llangollen is formed by certain enormous rocks called the Eglwysig rocks , which extend from east to west , a distance of about two miles . 
The southern side is formed by the Berwyn hills . 
The valley is intersected by the River Dee , the origin of which is a deep lake near Bala , about twenty miles to the west . 
Between the Dee and the Eglwysig rises a lofty hill , on the top of which are the ruins of Dinas Bran , which bear no slight resemblance to a crown . 
Llangollen is a small town or large village of white houses with slate roofs , it contains about two thousand inhabitants , and is situated principally on the southern side of the Dee . 
From some of the houses on the southern side there is a noble view Dinas Bran and its mighty hill forming the principal objects . 
The view from the northern part of the town , which is indeed little more than a suburb , is not quite so grand , but is nevertheless highly interesting . 
The eastern entrance of the vale of Llangollen is much wider than the western , which is overhung by bulky hills . 
Collen , according to a legendary life , which exists of him in Welsh , was a Briton by birth , and of illustrious ancestry . 
He served for some time abroad as a soldier against Julian the Apostate , and slew a Pagan champion who challenged the best man amongst the Christians . 
Collen did not go the next night there was the same knocking and the same message . 
Still Collen did not go . 
The third night the messenger came again and repeated his summons , adding that if he did not go it would be the worse for him . 
Collen followed the man into the castle , and beheld the king on a throne of gold , and a table magnificently spread before him . 
The king welcomed Collen , and begged him to taste of the dainties on the table , adding that he hoped that in future he would reside with him . 
I will not eat of the leaves of the forest , said Collen . 
What kind of dress is it ? said the king . 
Collen replied The red on the one side denotes burning , and the blue on the other side denotes freezing . 
The valley of the Dee , of which the Llangollen district forms part , is called in the British tongue Glyndyfrdwy that is , the valley of the Dwy or Dee . 
Connected with the Dee there is a wonderful Druidical legend to the following effect . 
Dinas Bran , which crowns the top of the mighty hill on the northern side of the valley , is a ruined stronghold of unknown antiquity . 
The name is generally supposed to signify Crow Castle , bran being the British word for crow , and flocks of crows being frequently seen hovering over it . 
It may , however , mean the castle of Bran or Brennus , or the castle above the Bran , a brook which flows at its foot . 
But though it could shield him from his foes , it could not preserve him from remorse and the stings of conscience , of which he speedily died . 
The mistress of the house was a highly respectable widow , who , with a servant maid was to wait upon us . 
It was as agreeable a place in all respects as people like ourselves could desire . 
I never had seen so wretched a looking creature . 
It was dreadfully attenuated , being little more than skin and bone , and was sorely afflicted with an eruptive malady . 
And here I may as well relate the history of this cat previous to our arrival which I subsequently learned by bits and snatches . 
It had belonged to a previous vicar of Llangollen , and had been left behind at his departure . 
It ate and drank and soon began to purr . 
The good woman of the house was horrified when on coming in to remove the things she saw the church cat on her carpet . 
What impudence ! she exclaimed , and made towards it , but on our telling her that we did not expect that it should be disturbed , she let it alone . 
It stayed with us two hours and then went away . 
The next morning it returned . 
To be short , though it went away every night , it became our own cat , and one of our family . 
I gave it something which cured it of its eruption , and through good treatment it soon lost its other ailments and began to look sleek and bonny . 
CHAPTER VIII The Mowers Deep Welsh Extensive View Old Celtic Hatred Fish Preserving Smollet's Morgan . 
NEXT morning I set out to ascend Dinas Bran , a number of children , almost entirely girls , followed me . 
I asked them why they came after me . 
In the hope that you will give us something , said one in very good English . 
I told them that I should give them nothing , but they still followed me . 
A little way up the hill I saw some men cutting hay . 
I made an observation to one of them respecting the fineness of the weather he answered civilly , and rested on his scythe , whilst the others pursued their work . 
You speak very good English , said I , have you much Welsh ? Plenty , said he I am a real Welshman . 
Can you read Welsh ? said I. Oh , yes ! he replied . 
What books have you read ? said I. I have read the Bible , sir , and one or two other books . 
Did you ever read the Bardd Cwsg ? said I. He looked at me with some surprise . 
No , said he , after a moment or two , I have never read it . 
I have seen it , but it was far too deep Welsh for me . 
I have read it , said I. Are you a Welshman ? said he . 
No , said I I am an Englishman . 
Ah ! said he , but it is easier to learn to mow than to read the Bardd Cwsg . 
I don't think that , said I I have taken up a scythe a hundred times but I cannot mow . 
Will your honour take mine now , and try again ? said he . 
No , said I , for if I take your scythe in hand I must give you a shilling , you know , by mowers' law . 
He gave a broad grin , and I proceeded up the hill . 
When he rejoined his companions he said something to them in Welsh , at which they all laughed . 
I reached the top of the hill , the children still attending me . 
The day that I made my first ascent of Dinas Bran was very clear , but I do not think I saw the Wyddfa then from the top of Dinas Bran . 
As I stood gazing around , the children danced about upon the grass , and sang a song . 
I descended the hill they followed me to its foot , and then left me . 
The children of the lower class of Llangollen are great pests to visitors . 
The best way to get rid of them is to give them nothing I followed that plan , and was not long troubled with them . 
Arrived at the foot of the hill , I walked along the bank of the canal to the west . 
Presently I came to a barge lying by the bank the boatman was in it . 
I entered into conversation with him . 
He told me that the canal and its branches extended over a great part of England . 
I proceeded till I came to a place where some people were putting huge slates into a canal boat . 
It was near a bridge which crossed the Dee , which was on the left . 
I stopped and entered into conversation with one , who appeared to be the principal man . 
He told me amongst other things that he was a blacksmith from the neighbourhood of Rhiwabon , and that the flags were intended for the flooring of his premises . 
In the boat was an old bareheaded , bare armed fellow , who presently joined in the conversation in very broken English . 
I told him that all Englishmen were not fools but the greater part are , said he . 
Look how they work , said I. Yes , said he , some of them are good at breaking stones for the road , but not more than one in a hundred . 
There seems to be something of the old Celtic hatred to the Saxon in this old fellow , said I to myself , as I walked away . 
I proceeded till I came to the head of the canal , where the navigation first commences . 
It is close to a weir over which the Dee falls . 
Here there is a little floodgate , through which water rushes from an oblong pond or reservoir , fed by water from a corner of the upper part of the weir . 
On the left , or south west side , is a mound of earth fenced with stones which is the commencement of the bank of the canal . 
The pond or reservoir above the floodgate is separated from the weir by a stone wall on the left , or south west side . 
The head of the canal is situated in a very beautiful spot . 
To the left or south is a lofty hill covered with wood . 
Retracing my steps some way I got upon the river's bank and then again proceeded in the direction of the west . 
The cottage had several dusky outbuildings attached to it , and a paling before it . 
Leaning over the paling in his shirt sleeves was a dark faced , short , thickset man , who saluted me in English . 
I returned his salutation , stopped , and was soon in conversation with him . 
He asked me if I had been to see the place called the Robber's Leap , as strangers generally went to see it . 
I inquired where it was . 
Yonder , said he , pointing to some distance down the river . 
It was an awful leap , and he well deserved to escape after taking it . 
I told him that I should go and look at it on some future opportunity , and then asked if there were many fish in the river . 
He said there were plenty of salmon and trout , and that owing to the river being tolerably high , a good many had been caught during the last few days . 
I asked him who enjoyed the right of fishing in the river . 
He added that there was a report that the river would shortly be rhydd or free and open to any one . 
He added that gentry did not understand how to catch fish , and that to attempt to preserve was nonsense . 
The manners and way of speaking of this old personage put me very much in mind of those of Morgan , described by Smollett in his immortal novel of Roderick Random . 
I had more discourse with him I asked him in what line of business he was , he told me that he sold coals . 
From his complexion , and the hue of his shirt , I had already concluded that he was in some grimy trade . 
I then inquired of what religion he was , and received for answer that he was a Baptist . 
I thought that both himself and part of his apparel would look all the better for a good immersion . 
We talked of the war then raging he said it was between the false prophet and the Dragon . 
I asked him who the Dragon was he said the Turk . 
I told him that the Pope was far worse than either the Turk or the Russian , that his religion was the vilest idolatry , and that he would let no one alone . 
That it was the Pope who drove his fellow religionists the Anabaptists out of the Netherlands . 
He asked me how long ago that was . 
Between two and three hundred years I replied . 
He asked me the meaning of the word Anabaptist I told him whereupon he expressed great admiration for my understanding , and said that he hoped he should see me again . 
I thanked him , and passing over the bridge , and ascending the bank , found myself upon a broad road . 
I turned to the left , and walking briskly in about half an hour reached our cottage in the northern suburb , where I found my family and dinner awaiting me . 
CHAPTER IX The Dinner English Foibles Pengwern The Yew Tree Carn Lleidyr Applications of a Term . 
FOR dinner we had salmon and leg of mutton the salmon from the Dee , the leg from the neighbouring Berwyn . 
As for the leg of mutton it was truly wonderful nothing so good had I ever tasted in the shape of a leg of mutton . 
The leg of mutton of Wales beats the leg of mutton of any other country , and I had never tasted a Welsh leg of mutton before . 
O its savoury smell was great , Such as well might tempt , I trow , One that's dead to lift his brow . 
Let any one who wishes to eat leg of mutton in perfection go to Wales , but mind you to eat leg of mutton only . 
Welsh leg of mutton is superlative but with the exception of the leg , the mutton of Wales is decidedly inferior to that of many other parts of Britain . 
Here , perhaps , as I have told the reader what we ate for dinner , it will be as well to tell him what we drank at dinner . 
In the evening I went across the bridge and strolled along in a south east direction . 
I told him I should be glad of his company , and that I was not ashamed to be seen walking with any person , however poor , who conducted himself with propriety . 
He said that I had spoken his very thoughts , and then asked me whether I wished to be taken the most agreeable walk near Llangollen . 
On my replying by all means , he led me along the road to the south east . 
A pleasant road it proved on our right at some distance was the mighty Berwyn close on our left the hill called Pen y Coed . 
I asked him what was beyond the Berwyn ? A very wild country , indeed , he replied , consisting of wood , rock , and river in fact , an anialwch . 
He then asked if I knew the meaning of anialwch . 
A wilderness , I replied , you will find the word in the Welsh Bible . 
On my inquiring of what religion he was , he told me he was a Calvinistic Methodist . 
We passed an ancient building which stood on our right . 
I turned round to look at it . 
Its back was to the road at its eastern end was a fine arched window like the oriel window of a church That building , said my companion , is called Pengwern Hall . 
It was once a convent of nuns a little time ago a farm house , but is now used as a barn , and a place of stowage . 
I still looked at the edifice . 
You seem to admire the old building , said my companion . 
I was not admiring it , said I I was thinking of the difference between its present and former state . 
About three miles from here , in the north west part of the valley , is an old edifice . 
Iolo Goch , the bard of your celebrated hero , Owen Glendower , was buried somewhere in its precincts . 
We went on my companion took me over a stile behind the house which he had pointed out , and along a path through hazel coppices . 
After a little time I inquired whether there were any Papists in Llangollen . 
And so they do , said I , true to the old Indian superstition , of which their religion is nothing but a modification . 
The Indians and sepoys worship stocks and stones , and the river Ganges , and our Papists worship stocks and stones , holy wells and fountains . 
He put some questions to me about the origin of nuns and friars . 
I told him they originated in India , and made him laugh heartily by showing him the original identity of nuns and nautch girls , begging priests and begging Brahmins . 
We passed by a small house with an enormous yew tree before it I asked him who lived there . 
No one , he replied , it is to let . 
It was originally a cottage , but the proprietors have furbished it up a little , and call it Yew tree Villa . 
I suppose they would let it cheap , said I. By no means , he replied , they ask eighty pounds a year for it . 
What could have induced them to set such a rent upon it ? I demanded . 
The yew tree , sir , which is said to be the largest in Wales . 
We soon came to a road leading east and west . 
This way , said he , pointing in the direction of the west , leads back to Llangollen , the other to Offa's Dyke and England . 
We turned to the west . 
He inquired if I had ever heard before of Offa's Dyke . 
Oh yes , said I , it was built by an old Saxon king called Offa , against the incursions of the Welsh . 
Let us be thankful that we are now more humane to each other . 
We are now on the north side of Pen y Coed . 
Do you know the meaning of Pen y Coed , sir ? Pen y Coed , said I , means the head of the wood . 
The word is a double word , said I , compounded of carn and lleidyr . 
In course of time , however , the original meaning was lost or disregarded , and the term carn lleidyr was applied to any particularly dishonest person . 
So much for Carn lleidyr . 
He found all English disagreeable enough , but those of Lancashire particularly so savage , brutish louts , out and out John Bulls , and therefore he called them Carn Saeson . 
Thank you , sir , said my companion I now thoroughly understand the meaning of carn . 
Whenever I go to Chester , and a dressed up madam jostles against me , I shall call her carn butein . 
The Pope of Rome I shall in future term carn lleidyr y byd , or the arch thief of the world . 
I never had such an agreeable walk in my life . 
May I ask your name ? I told him my name , and asked him for his . 
Edward Jones , he replied . 
CHAPTER X The Berwyn Mountain Cottage The Barber's Pole . 
When I had accomplished about three parts of the ascent I came to a place where the road , or path , divided into two . 
I said a few words to her in Welsh , whereupon in broken English she asked me to enter the cottage and take a glass of milk . 
I went in and sat down on a chair which a sickly looking young woman handed to me . 
I asked her in English who she was , but she made no answer , whereupon the old woman told me that she was her daughter and had no English . 
I then asked her in Welsh what was the matter with her , she replied that she had the cryd or ague . 
The old woman now brought me a glass of milk , and said in the Welsh language that she hoped I should like it . 
What further conversation we had was in the Cambrian tongue . 
I asked the name of the dog , who was now fondling upon me , and was told that his name was Pharaoh . 
I found that both mother and daughter were Calvinistic Methodists . 
After a little further discourse I got up and gave the old woman twopence for the milk she accepted it , but with great reluctance . 
I inquired whether by following the road I could get to the Pen y bryn or the top of the hill . 
They shook their heads , and the young woman said that I could not , as the road presently took a turn and went down . 
I asked her how I could get to the top of the hill . 
Which part of the top ? said she . 
I'r goruchaf , I replied . 
That must be where the barber's pole stands , said she . 
Why does the barber's pole stand there ? said I. A barber was hanged there a long time ago , said she , and the pole was placed to show the spot . 
Why was he hanged ? said I. For murdering his wife , said she . 
I asked her some questions about the murder , but the only information she could give me was , that it was a very bad murder and occurred a long time ago . 
I had observed the pole from our garden , at Llangollen , but had concluded that it was a common flagstaff . 
I inquired the way to it . 
It was not visible from the cottage , but they gave me directions how to reach it . 
I bade them farewell , and in about a quarter of an hour reached the pole on the top of the hill . 
I imagined that I should have a glorious view of the vale of Llangollen from the spot where it stood the view , however , did not answer my expectations . 
I returned to Llangollen by nearly the same way by which I had come . 
It lies on the farther side of the bridge , at a little distance from the back part of the church . 
There is a thoroughfare through the grounds , which are not extensive . 
CHAPTER XI Welsh Farm House A Poet's Grandson Hospitality Mountain Village Madoc The Native Valley Corpse Candles The Midnight Call . 
Accordingly on Friday morning I set out . 
I repeated the question , which I had put to his wife , and he also said that by following the road I could get across the mountain . 
We soon got into conversation . 
He told me that the little farm in which he lived belonged to the person who had bought Pengwern Hall . 
He said that he was a good kind of gentleman , but did not like the Welsh . 
I asked him , if the gentleman in question did not like the Welsh , why he came to live among them . 
He smiled , and I then said that I liked the Welsh very much , and was particularly fond of their language . 
He asked me whether I could read Welsh , and on my telling him I could , he said that if I would walk in he would show me a Welsh book . 
I went with him and his wife into a neat kind of kitchen , flagged with stone , where were several young people , their children . 
I spoke some Welsh to them which appeared to give them great satisfaction . 
The man went to a shelf and taking down a book put it into my hand . 
It was a Welsh book , and the title of it in English was Evening Work of the Welsh . 
It contained the lives of illustrious Welshmen , commencing with that of Cadwalader . 
I read a page of it aloud , while the family stood round and wondered to hear a Saxon read their language . 
I entered into discourse with the man about Welsh poetry and repeated the famous prophecy of Taliesin about the Coiling Serpent . 
I asked him if the Welsh had any poets at the present day . 
Plenty , said he , and good ones Wales can never be without a poet . 
Then after a pause he said , that he was the grandson of a great poet . 
Do you bear his name ? said I. I do , he replied . 
What may it be ? Hughes , he answered . 
He lived here , in this very house , said the man . 
Jonathan Hughes was my grandfather ! and as he spoke his eyes flashed fire . 
Dear me ! said I I read some of his pieces thirty two years ago when I was a lad in England . 
I think I can repeat some of the lines . 
I then repeated a quartet which I chanced to remember . 
Ah ! said the man , I see you know his poetry . 
Come into the next room and I will show you his chair . 
He led me into a sleeping room on the right hand , where in a corner he showed me an antique three cornered arm chair . 
That chair , said he , my grandsire won at Llangollen , at an Eisteddfod of Bards . 
Various bards recited their poetry , but my grandfather won the prize . 
Ah , he was a good poet . 
He also won a prize of fifteen guineas at a meeting of bards in London . 
He took me to a gate , which he opened , and then pointed out the way which I must pursue . 
I went up the field with the lane on my right , down which ran a runnel of water , from which doubtless the house derived its name . 
I was not long in gaining the top which was nearly level . 
Here I stood for some time looking about me , having the vale of Llangollen to the north of me , and a deep valley abounding with woods and rocks to the south . 
Following the road to the south , which gradually descended , I soon came to a place where a road diverged from the straight one to the left . 
As the left hand road appeared to lead down a romantic valley I followed it . 
The scenery was beautiful steep hills on each side . 
Both sides of the ravine were fringed with trees , chiefly ash . 
I descended the road which was zigzag and steep , and at last arrived at the bottom of the valley , where there was a small hamlet . 
I soon reached the top of the hill , where were some more houses , those which I had seen from the valley below . 
I should perhaps have fancied myself for a moment in a Castilian or Manchegan mountain pueblicito , but for the abundance of trees which met my eye on every side . 
In walking up this mountain village I saw no one , and heard no sound but the echo of my steps amongst the houses . 
As I returned , however , I saw a man standing at a door he was a short figure , about fifty . 
He had an old hat on his head , a stick in his hand , and was dressed in a duffel greatcoat . 
Good day , friend , said I what be the name of this place ? Pont Fadog , sir , is its name , for want of a better . 
That's a fine name , said I it signifies in English the bridge of Madoc . 
Just so , sir I see you know Welsh . 
And I see you know English , said I. Very little , sir I can read English much better than I can speak it . 
So can I Welsh , said I. I suppose the village is named after the bridge . 
No doubt it is , sir . 
And why was the bridge called the bridge of Madoc ? said I. Because one Madoc built it , sir . 
Was he the son of Owain Gwynedd ? said I. Ah , I see you know all about Wales , sir . 
Yes , sir he built it , or I daresay he built it , Madawg ap Owain Gwynedd . 
I have read much about him he was a great sailor , sir , and was the first to discover Tir y Gorllewin or America . 
Not many years ago his tomb was discovered there with an inscription in old Welsh saying who he was , and how he loved the sea . 
I have seen the lines which were found on the tomb . 
Ah , sir , said the man , I see you know all about the son of Owain Gwynedd . 
Well , sir , those lines , or something like them , were found upon the tomb of Madoc in America . 
That I doubt said I. However , the idea is a pretty one therefore cherish it . 
This is a beautiful country . 
A very beautiful country , sir there is none more beautiful in all Wales . 
What is the name of the river , which runs beneath the bridge ? The Ceiriog , sir . 
The Ceiriog , said I the Ceiriog ! Did you ever hear the name before , sir ? I have heard of the Eos Ceiriog , said I the Nightingale of Ceiriog . 
That was Huw Morris , sir he was called the Nightingale of Ceiriog . 
Did he live hereabout ? Oh no , sir he lived far away up towards the head of the valley , at a place called Pont y Meibion . 
Are you acquainted with his works ? said I. Oh yes , sir , at least with some of them . 
I have read the Marwnad on Barbara Middleton and likewise the piece on Oliver and his men . 
Ah , it is a funny piece that he did not like Oliver nor his men . 
Of what profession are you ? said I are you a schoolmaster or apothecary ? Neither , sir , neither I am merely a poor shoemaker . 
When you have any boots to mend or shoes , sir I shall be happy to serve you . 
I do not live in these parts , said I. No , sir but you are coming to live here . 
Well , said I , if I ever settle down here , I shall be happy to employ you . 
I went back the way I had come , till I reached the little hamlet . 
Seeing a small public house , I entered it . 
Rather a quiet place this , said I , I have seen but two faces since I came over the hill , and yours is one . 
Rather too quiet , sir , said the good woman , one would wish to have more visitors . 
I suppose , said I , people from Llangollen occasionally come to visit you . 
Sometimes , sir , for curiosity's sake but very rarely the way is very steep . 
Do the Tylwyth Teg ever pay you visits ? The Tylwyth Teg , sir ? Yes the fairies . 
You have never seen them ? I have not , sir but I believe there are people living who have . 
And did the candle prognosticate , I mean foreshow his death ? It did , sir . 
When a person is to die his candle is seen a few nights before the time of his death . 
Have you ever seen a corpse candle ? I have , sir and as you seem to be a respectable gentleman , I will tell you all about it . 
When I was a girl I lived with my parents a little way from here . 
I had a cousin , a very good young man , who lived with his parents in the neighbourhood of our house . 
He was an exemplary young man , sir , and having a considerable gift of prayer , was intended for the ministry but he fell sick , and shortly became very ill indeed . 
One evening when he was lying in this state , as I was returning home from milking , I saw a candle proceeding from my cousin's house . 
I stood still and looked at it . 
It moved slowly forward for a little way , and then mounted high in the air above the wood , which stood not far in front of the house , and disappeared . 
Just three nights after that my cousin died . 
My mother had a sister who was married like herself , and expected to be confined . 
Day after day , however , passed away , without her confinement taking place . 
My mother expected every moment to be summoned to her assistance , and was so anxious about her that she could not rest at night . 
She thought she had been deceived , so , without awakening her husband , she tried to go to sleep , but sleep she could not . 
The next night , at about the same time , she again heard a horse's feet come stump , stump , up to the door . 
She now waked her husband and told him to listen . 
He did so , and both heard the stumping . 
Presently , the stumping ceased , and then there was a loud Hey ! as if somebody wished to wake them . 
Hey ! said my father , and they both lay for a minute expecting to hear something more , but they heard nothing . 
My father then sprang out of bed , and looked out of the window it was bright moonlight , but he saw nothing . 
The next night , as they lay in bed both asleep , they were suddenly aroused by a loud and terrible knocking . 
Out sprang my father from the bed , flung open the window , and looked out , but there was no one at the door . 
Thank you , said I and paying for my ale , I returned to Llangollen . 
CHAPTER XII A Calvinistic Methodist Turn for Saxon Our Congregation Pont y Cyssyltau Catherine Lingo . 
I told her to let me see him . 
He presently made his appearance . 
He was about forty five years of age , of middle stature , and had a good natured open countenance . 
His dress was poor , but clean . 
Well , said I to him in Welsh , are you the Cumro who can speak no Saxon ? In truth , sir , I am . 
Are you sure that you know no Saxon ? Sir ! I may know a few words , but I cannot converse in Saxon , nor understand a conversation in that tongue . 
Can you read Cumraeg ? In truth , sir , I can . 
What have you read in it ? I have read , sir , the Ysgrythyr lan , till I have it nearly at the ends of my fingers . 
Have you read anything else besides the holy Scripture ? I read the newspaper , sir , when kind friends lend it to me . 
In Cumraeg ? Yes , sir , in Cumraeg . 
I can read Saxon a little but not sufficient to understand a Saxon newspaper . 
What newspaper do you read ? I read , sir , Yr Amserau . 
Is that a good newspaper ? Very good , sir , it is written by good men . 
Who are they ? They are our ministers , sir . 
Of what religion are you ? A Calvinistic Methodist , sir . 
Why are you of the Methodist religion ? Because it is the true religion , sir . 
You should not be bigoted . 
If I had more Cumraeg than I have , I would prove to you that the only true religion is that of the Lloegrian Church . 
In truth , sir , you could not do that had you all the Cumraeg in Cumru you could not do that . 
What are you by trade ? I am a gwehydd , sir . 
What do you earn by weaving ? About five shillings a week , sir . 
Have you a wife ? I have , sir . 
Does she earn anything ? Very seldom , sir she is a good wife , but is generally sick . 
Have you children ? I have three , sir . 
Do they earn anything ? My eldest son , sir , sometimes earns a few pence , the others are very small . 
Will you sometimes walk with me , if I pay you ? I shall be always glad to walk with you , sir , whether you pay me or not . 
Well , I think we may venture to walk with one another . 
What is your name ? John Jones , sir . 
Jones ! Jones ! I was walking with a man of that name the other night . 
The man with whom you walked the other night is my brother , sir , and what he said to me about you made me wish to walk with you also . 
But he spoke very good English . 
My brother had a turn for Saxon , sir I had not . 
Some people have a turn for the Saxon , others have not . 
I have no Saxon , sir , my wife has digon iawn my two youngest children speak good Saxon , sir , my eldest son not a word . 
Well shall we set out ? If you please , sir . 
Good ! let us go and see the bridge of the junction , for that I think is the meaning in Saxon of Pont y Cyssylltau . 
We set out my guide conducted me along the bank of the Camlas in the direction of Rhiwabon , that is towards the east . 
On the way we discoursed on various subjects , and understood each other tolerably well . 
I asked if he had been anything besides a weaver . 
He told me that when a boy he kept sheep on the mountain . 
Why did you not go on keeping sheep ? said I would rather keep sheep than weave . 
My parents wanted me at home , sir , said he and I was not sorry to go home I earned little , and lived badly . 
A shepherd , said I , can earn more than five shillings a week . 
I was never a regular shepherd , sir , said he . 
But , sir , I would rather be a weaver with five shillings a week in Llangollen , than a shepherd with fifteen on the mountain . 
The life of a shepherd , sir , is perhaps not exactly what you and some other gentlefolks think . 
The shepherd bears much cold and wet , sir , and he is very lonely no society save his sheep and dog . 
Then , sir , he has no privileges . 
He does not look forward to Dydd Sul , as a day of llawenydd , of joy and triumph , as the weaver does that is if he is religiously disposed . 
The shepherd has no chapel , sir , like the weaver . 
Oh , sir , I say again that I would rather be a weaver in Llangollen with five shillings a week , than a shepherd on the hill with fifteen . 
Do you mean to say , said I , that you live with your family on five shillings a week ? No , sir . 
I frequently do little commissions by which I earn something . 
Then , sir , I have friends , very good friends . 
A good lady of our congregation sent me this morning half a pound of butter . 
The people of our congregation are very kind to each other , sir . 
That is more , thought I to myself , than the people of my congregation are they are always cutting each other's throats . 
I next asked if he had been much about Wales . 
However , I have been to Pen Caer Gybi , which you call Holy Head , and to Beth Gelert , sir . 
What took you to those places ? I was sent to those places on business , sir as I told you before , sir , I sometimes execute commissions . 
At Beth Gelert I stayed some time . 
It was there I married , sir my wife comes from a place called Dol Gellyn near Beth Gelert . 
What was her name ? Her name was Jones , sir . 
What , before she married ? Yes , sir , before she married . 
You need not be surprised , sir there are plenty of the name of Jones in Wales . 
The name of my brother's wife , before she married , was also Jones . 
Your brother is a clever man , said I. Yes , sir , for a Cumro he is clebber enough . 
For a Cumro ? Yes , sir , he is not a Saxon , you know . 
Look at Mr A. , sir . 
He is the clebberest man in Llangollen , sir . 
He is a great cook , and can wash clothes better than any woman . 
We went along it the height was awful . 
My guide , though he had been a mountain shepherd , confessed that he was somewhat afraid . 
It gives me the pendro , sir , said he , to look down . 
I too felt somewhat dizzy , as I looked over the parapet into the glen . 
The canal which this mighty bridge carries across the gulf is about nine feet wide , and occupies about two thirds of the width of the bridge and the entire western side . 
The footway is towards the east . 
From about the middle of the bridge there is a fine view of the forges on the Cefn Bach and also of a huge hill near it called the Cefn Mawr . 
We reached the termination , and presently crossing the canal by a little wooden bridge we came to a village . 
My guide then said , If you please , sir , we will return by the old bridge , which leads across the Dee in the bottom of the vale . 
He then led me by a romantic road to a bridge on the west of the aqueduct , and far below . 
This is the old bridge , sir , said my guide it was built a hundred years before the Pont y Cysswllt was dreamt of . 
We now walked to the west , in the direction of Llangollen , along the bank of the river . 
Presently we arrived where the river , after making a bend , formed a pool . 
It was shaded by lofty trees , and to all appearance was exceedingly deep . 
I stopped to look at it , for I was struck with its gloomy horror . 
That pool , sir , said John Jones , is called Llyn y Meddwyn , the drunkard's pool . 
It is called so , sir , because a drunken man once fell into it , and was drowned . 
There is no deeper pool in the Dee , sir , save one , a little below Llangollen , which is called the pool of Catherine Lingo . 
A girl of that name fell into it , whilst gathering sticks on the high bank above it . 
She was drowned , and the pool was named after her . 
I never look at either without shuddering , thinking how certainly I should be drowned if I fell in , for I cannot swim , sir . 
You should have learnt to swim when you were young , said I , and to dive too . 
I found my guide a first rate walker and a good botanist , knowing the names of all the plants and trees in Welsh . 
He was very honest , disinterested , and exceedingly good humoured . 
CHAPTER XIII Divine Service Llangollen Bells Iolo Goch The Abbey Twm o'r Nant Holy Well Thomas Edwards SUNDAY arrived a Sunday of unclouded sunshine . 
We attended Divine service at church in the morning . 
The congregation was very numerous , but to all appearance consisted almost entirely of English visitors , like ourselves . 
There were two officiating clergymen , father and son . 
They both sat in a kind of oblong pulpit on the southern side of the church , at a little distance below the altar . 
The service was in English , and the elder gentleman preached there was good singing and chanting . 
After dinner I sat in an arbour in the perllan , thinking of many things , amongst others , spiritual . 
Whilst thus engaged , the sound of the church bells calling people to afternoon service came upon my ears . 
I listened , and thought I had never heard bells with so sweet a sound . 
I had heard them in the morning , but without paying much attention to them , but as I now sat in the umbrageous arbour , I was particularly struck with them . 
Oh how sweetly their voice mingled with the low rush of the river , at the bottom of the perllan . 
I subsequently found that the bells of Llangollen were celebrated for their sweetness . 
In the evening , at about half past six , I attended service again , but without my family . 
This time the congregation was not numerous , and was composed principally of poor people . 
On the Monday evening , myself and family took a walk to the abbey . 
My wife and daughter , who are fond of architecture and ruins , were very anxious to see the old place . 
This man , whose poetical appellation was Iolo Goch , but whose real name was Llwyd , was of a distinguished family , and Lord of Llechryd . 
He was born and generally resided at a place called Coed y Pantwn , in the upper part of the Vale of Clwyd . 
He composed pieces of great excellence on various subjects but the most remarkable of his compositions are decidedly certain ones connected with Owen Glendower . 
It was from knowing that this distinguished man lay buried in the precincts of the old edifice , that I felt so anxious to see it . 
After walking about two miles we perceived it on our right hand . 
The abbey of the vale of the cross stands in a green meadow , in a corner near the north west end of the valley of Llangollen . 
In the Papist times the abbey was a place of great pseudo sanctity , wealth and consequence . 
We first reached that part of the building which had once been the church , having previously to pass through a farmyard , in which was abundance of dirt and mire . 
The church fronts the west and contains the remains of a noble window , beneath which is a gate , which we found locked . 
A respectable dame kindly welcomed us and invited us to sit down . 
We entered into conversation with her , and asked her name , which she said was Evans . 
I spoke some Welsh to her , which pleased her . 
I spoke to her about the abbey , and asked if she had ever heard of Iolo Goch . 
She inquired who he was . 
I told her he was a great bard , and was buried in the abbey . 
There , said she , is the portrait of Twm o'r Nant , generally called the Welsh Shakespeare . 
His features were rude , but full of wild , strange expression below the picture was the following couplet Llun Gwr yw llawn gwir Awen Y Byd a lanwodd o'i Ben . 
Did you ever hear of Twm o'r Nant ? said the old dame . 
What do the lines mean ? said the old lady they are Welsh , I know , but they are far beyond my understanding . 
They may be thus translated , said I God in his head the Muse instill'd , And from his head the world he fill'd . 
Thank you , sir , said the old lady . 
I never found any one before who could translate them . 
We then got up and bade her farewell but she begged that we would stay and taste the dwr santaidd of the holy well . 
What holy well is that ? said I. A well , said she , by the road's side , which in the time of the popes was said to perform wonderful cures . 
Presently a woman made her appearance at the gate she was genteelly drest , about the middle age , rather tall , and bearing in her countenance the traces of beauty . 
When we told her the object of our coming she admitted us , and after locking the gate conducted us into the church . 
It was roofless , and had nothing remarkable about it , save the western window , which we had seen from without . 
Our attendant pointed out to us some tombs , and told us the names of certain great people whose dust they contained . 
Can you tell us where Iolo Goch lies interred ? said I. No , said she indeed I never heard of such a person . 
He was the bard of Owen Glendower , said I , and assisted his cause wonderfully by the fiery odes , in which he incited the Welsh to rise against the English . 
Indeed ! said she well , I am sorry to say that I never heard of him . 
Are you Welsh ? said I. I am , she replied . 
Did you ever hear of Thomas Edwards ? Oh , yes , said she I have frequently heard of him . 
She asked us whether we came walking , and on our telling her that we did , she said that she would point out to us a near way home . 
She then pointed to a path up a hill , telling us we must follow it . 
CHAPTER XIV Expedition to Ruthyn The Column Slate Quarries The Gwyddelod Nocturnal Adventure . 
On the Thursday he and I started on an expedition on foot to Ruthyn , distant about fourteen miles , proposing to return in the evening . 
The town and castle of Ruthyn possessed great interest for me from being connected with the affairs of Owen Glendower . 
We started on our expedition at about seven o'clock of a brilliant morning . 
We passed by the abbey and presently came to a small fountain with a little stone edifice , with a sharp top above it . 
That is the pillar of Eliseg , sir , said my guide . 
Let us go and see it , said I. We soon reached the stone . 
It is a fine upright column about seven feet high , and stands on a quadrate base . 
Sir , said my guide , a dead king lies buried beneath this stone . 
He was a mighty man of valour and founded the abbey . 
Perhaps Ellis , said I , and if his name was Ellis the stone was very properly called Colofn Eliseg , in Saxon the Ellisian column . 
The view from the column is very beautiful , below on the south east is the venerable abbey , slumbering in its green meadow . 
Beyond it runs a stream , descending from the top of a glen , at the bottom of which the old pile is situated beyond the stream is a lofty hill . 
The glen on the north is bounded by a noble mountain , covered with wood . 
Struck with its beauty I inquired its name . 
Moel Eglwysig , sir , said my guide . 
The Moel of the Church , said I. That is hardly a good name for it , for the hill is not bald . 
True , sir , said John Jones . 
before the hill was planted with trees its name was good enough . 
Our fathers were not fools when they named their hills . 
We regained the road the road tended to the north up a steep ascent . 
I asked John Jones the name of a beautiful village , which lay far away on our right , over the glen , and near its top . 
Pentref y dwr , sir . 
It is called the village of the water , because the river below comes down through part of it . 
I next asked the name of the hill up which we were going , and he told me Allt Bwlch that is , the high place of the hollow road . 
This bwlch , or hollow way , was a regular pass , which put me wonderfully in mind of the passes of Spain . 
It took us a long time to get to the top . 
After resting a minute on the summit we began to descend . 
My guide pointed out to me some slate works , at some distance on our left . 
There is a great deal of work going on there , sir , said he all the slates that you see descending the canal at Llangollen came from there . 
They looked bulky and huge . 
We continued our way , and presently saw marks of a fire in some grass by the side of the road . 
Have the Gipsiaid been there ? said I to my guide . 
have been camping there lately . 
The Gwyddeliad ? Yes , sir , the vagabond Gwyddeliad , who at present infest these parts much , and do much more harm than the Gipsiaid ever did . 
And they have ceased to come about ? Nearly so , sir I believe they have been frightened away by the Gwyddelod . 
What kind of people are these Gwyddelod ? Savage , brutish people , sir in general without shoes and stockings , with coarse features and heads of hair like mops . 
How do they live ? The men tinker a little , sir , but more frequently plunder . 
The women tell fortunes , and steal whenever they can . 
They live something like the Gipsiaid . 
Something , sir but the hen Gipsiaid were gentlefolks in comparison . 
What language do they speak ? English , sir they pride themselves on speaking good English , that is to the Welsh . 
Amongst themselves they discourse in their own Paddy Gwyddel . 
During her sickness she took a fancy to their quiet way of life , and when she was recovered she begged to stay with them and serve them . 
They consented she became a very good servant , and hearing nothing but Welsh spoken , soon picked up the tongue . 
I almost wonder that her own people did not kill her . 
They threatened to do so , sir , and would doubtless have put their threat into execution , had they not been prevented by the Man on High . 
And here my guide pointed with his finger reverently upward . 
Is it a long time since you have seen any of these Gwyddeliaid ? About two months , sir , and then a terrible fright they caused me . 
How was that ? I will tell you , sir I had been across the Berwyn to carry home a piece of weaving work to a person who employs me . 
There were nearly twenty of them , men and women , and amongst the rest was a man standing naked in a tub of water with two women stroking him down with clouts . 
He was a large fierce looking fellow and his body , on which the flame of the fire glittered , was nearly covered with red hair . 
I never saw such a sight . 
As I passed they glared at me and talked violently in their Paddy Gwyddel , but did not offer to molest me . 
CHAPTER XV The Turf Tavern Don't Understand The Best Welsh The Maids of Merion Old and New Ruthyn The Ash Yggdrasill . 
It was chiefly composed of ash , sycamore and birch , and looked delightfully cool and shady . 
I asked my guide if it belonged to any gentleman's house . 
He told me that it did not , but to a public house , called Tafarn Tywarch , which stood near the end , a little way off the road . 
Why is it called Tafarn Tywarch ? said I , struck by the name which signifies the tavern of turf . 
It was called so , sir , said John , because it was originally merely a turf hovel , though at present it consists of good brick and mortar . 
We turned off to the tafarn , which was a decent public house of rather an antiquated appearance . 
We entered a sanded kitchen , and sat down by a large oaken table . 
Please to bring us some bread , cheese and ale , said I in Welsh to an elderly woman , who was moving about . 
Bring us some bread , cheese and ale , I repeated in Welsh . 
I do not understand you , sar , said she in English . 
Are you Welsh ? said I in English . 
Yes , I am Welsh ! And can you speak Welsh ? Oh yes , and the best . 
Then why did you not bring what I asked for ? Because I did not understand you . 
Tell her , said I to John Jones , to bring us some bread , cheese and ale . 
Come , aunt , said John , bring us bread and cheese and a quart of the best ale . 
The woman looked as if she was going to reply in the tongue in which he addressed her , then faltered , and at last said in English that she did not understand . 
Now , said I , you are fairly caught this man is a Welshman , and moreover understands no language but Welsh . 
Then how can he understand you ? said she . 
Because I speak Welsh , said I. Then you are a Welshman ? said she . 
No I am not , said I , I am English . 
So I thought , said she , and on that account I could not understand you . 
The woman stood still for a moment or two , and then biting her lips went away . 
What made the woman behave in this manner ? said I to my companion . 
Presently the woman returned with the bread , cheese and ale , which she placed on the table . 
What made you behave so ? Why I thought , said the woman , that no Englishman could speak Welsh , that his tongue was too short . 
Your having thought so , said I , should not have made you tell a falsehood , saying that you did not understand , when you knew that you understood very well . 
See what a disgraceful figure you cut . 
What do they call a salmon in the Vale of Clwyd ? said I. What do they call a salmon ? said the woman . 
Yes , said I , when they speak Welsh . 
They call it they call it why a salmon . 
Pretty Welsh ! said I. I thought you did not understand Welsh . 
Well , what do you call it ? said the woman . 
I never heard the words before , said the woman , nor do I believe them to be Welsh . 
You say so , said I , because you do not understand Welsh . 
I not understand Welsh ! said she . 
I'll soon show you that I do . 
Come , you have asked me the word for salmon in Welsh , I will now ask you the word for salmon trout . 
Now tell me that , and I will say you know something of the matter . 
A tinker of my country can tell you that , said I. The word for salmon trout is gleisiad . 
The countenance of the woman fell . 
And who wrote that song ? said I. I don't know , said the woman . 
But I do , said I one Lewis Morris wrote it . 
Oh , said she , I have heard all about Huw Morris . 
I was not talking of Huw Morris , said I , but Lewis Morris , who lived long after Huw Morris . 
The woman was about to reply , but I interrupted her . 
The ale was very good and so were the bread and cheese . 
The ale indeed was so good that I ordered a second jug . 
Observing a large antique portrait over the mantel piece I got up to examine it . 
It was that of a gentleman in a long wig , and underneath it was painted in red letters Sir Watkin Wynn . 
It was doubtless the portrait of the Sir Watkin who , in was committed to the tower under suspicion of being suspected of holding Jacobite opinions , and favouring the Pretender . 
The portrait was a very poor daub , but I looked at it long and attentively as a memorial of Wales at a critical and long past time . 
Now , sir , said John Jones , the way straight forward is the ffordd newydd , and the one on our right hand is the hen ffordd . 
Very good , sir , said my guide , that is the path I always go , for it is the shortest . 
So we turned to the right and followed the old road . 
Then leading me a little way from the road he showed me , under a hollow bank , a small cottage covered with flags . 
That is a house , sir , built yn yr hen dull in the old fashion , of earth , flags and wattles and in one night . 
The custom is not quite dead . 
I was at the building of this myself , and a merry building it was . 
The cwrw da passed quickly about among the builders , I assure you . 
We returned to the road , and when we had ascended a hill , my companion told me that if I looked to the left I should see the Vale of Clwyd . 
I looked and perceived an extensive valley pleasantly dotted with trees and farm houses , and bounded on the west by a range of hills . 
It is a fine valley , sir , said my guide , four miles wide and twenty long , and contains the richest land in all Wales . 
Cheese made in that valley , sir , fetches a penny a pound more than cheese made in any other valley . 
And who owns it ? said I. Various are the people who own it , sir , but Sir Watkin owns the greater part . 
After walking about a mile we left the road and proceeded by a footpath across some meadows . 
The meadows were green and delightful and were intersected by a beautiful stream . 
Trees in abundance were growing about , some of which were oaks . 
We passed by a little white chapel with a small graveyard before it , which my guide told me belonged to the Baptists , and shortly afterwards reached Ruthyn . 
We went to an inn called the Crossed Foxes , where we refreshed ourselves with ale . 
We then sallied forth to look about , after I had ordered a duck to be got ready for dinner , at three o'clock . 
After I had satisfied myself with wandering about the town we proceeded to the castle . 
The present castle is partly modern and partly ancient . 
It belongs to a family of the name of W who reside in the modern part , and who have the character of being kind , hospitable and intellectual people . 
We returned to the inn and dined . 
The duck was capital , and I asked John Jones if he had ever tasted a better . 
Never , sir , said he , for to tell you the truth , I never tasted a duck before . 
Rather singular , said I. What , that I should not have tasted duck ? Oh , sir , the singularity is , that I should now be tasting duck . 
Duck in Wales , sir , is not fare for poor weavers . 
Few weavers in Wales are ever able to say as much . 
CHAPTER XVI Baptist Tomb Stone The Toll Bar Rebecca The Guitar . 
THE sun was fast declining as we left Ruthyn . 
We retraced our steps across the fields . 
When we came to the Baptist Chapel I got over the wall of the little yard to look at the grave stones . 
The inscriptions upon them were all in Welsh . 
As we went along I stopped to gaze at a singular looking hill forming part of the mountain range on the east . 
I asked John Jones what its name was , but he did not know . 
As we were standing talking about it , a lady came up from the direction in which our course lay . 
John Jones , touching his hat to her , said Madam , this gwr boneddig wishes to know the name of that moel , perhaps you can tell him . 
Its name is Moel Agrik , said the lady , addressing me in English . 
The hill is spoken of by Pennant . 
A very proper name , said I , for there is plenty of oaks growing about . 
Thank you , said I , and , taking off my hat , I departed with my guide . 
I asked him her name , but he could not tell me . 
Before she was out of sight , however , we met a labourer of whom John Jones enquired her name . 
Her name is W s , said the man , and a good lady she is . 
Is she Welsh ? said I. Pure Welsh , master , said the man . 
Purer Welsh flesh and blood need not be . 
Nothing farther worth relating occurred till we reached the toll bar at the head of the hen ffordd , by which time the sun was almost gone down . 
We found the master of the gate , his wife and son seated on a bench before the door . 
The woman had a large book on her lap , in which she was reading by the last light of the departing orb . 
I gave the group the sele of the evening in English , which they all returned , the woman looking up from her book . 
Is that volume the Bible ? said I. It is , sir , said the woman . 
May I look at it ? said I. Certainly , said the woman , and placed the book in my hand . 
It was a magnificent Welsh Bible , but without the title page . 
That book must be a great comfort to you , said I to her . 
Very great , said she . 
I know not what we should do without it in the long winter evenings . 
Of what faith are you ? said I. We are Methodists , she replied . 
Then you are of the same faith as my friend here , said I. Yes , yes , said she , we are aware of that . 
We all know honest John Jones . 
After we had left the gate I asked John Jones whether he had ever heard of Rebecca of the toll gates . 
Oh , yes , said he I have heard of that chieftainess . 
And who was she ? said I. I cannot say , sir I never saw her , nor any one who had seen her . 
Ah , sir , something of the kind was almost necessary at that time . 
You have no idea how the poor Welsh were oppressed by those gates , aye , and the rich too . 
The little people and farmers could not carry their produce to market owing to the exactions at the gates , which devoured all the profit and sometimes more . 
So that the markets were not half supplied , and people with money could frequently not get what they wanted . 
Not only the poor but the rich , said so . 
Aye , and I have heard that many a fine young gentleman had a hand in the work , and went about at night at the head of a band dressed as Rebecca . 
Night had come on by the time we reached the foot of the huge hills we had crossed in the morning . 
We more than once passed people who gave us the n's da , the hissing night salutation of the Welsh . 
At length I saw the Abbey looming amidst the darkness , and John Jones said that , we were just above the fountain . 
We descended , and putting my head down I drank greedily of the dwr santaidd , my guide following my example . 
We then proceeded on our way , and in about half an hour reached Llangollen . 
I took John Jones home with me . 
We had a cheerful cup of tea . 
Henrietta played on the guitar , and sang a Spanish song , to the great delight of John Jones , who at about ten o'clock departed contented and happy to his own dwelling . 
CHAPTER XVII John Jones and his Bundle A Good Lady The Irishman's Dingle Ab Gwilym and the Mist The Kitchen The Two Individuals The Horse Dealer I can manage him The Mist Again . 
THE following day was gloomy . 
In the evening John Jones made his appearance with a bundle under his arm , and an umbrella in his hand . 
Sir , said he , I am going across the mountain with it piece of weaving work , for the man on the other side , who employs me . 
Perhaps you would like to go with me , as you are fond of walking . 
I suppose , said I , you wish to have my company for fear of meeting Gwyddelians on the hill . 
Well , sir , said he , if I do meet them I would sooner be with company than without . 
Hardly more than yourself , said I. Come I shall be glad to go . 
What I said about the Gwyddelians was only in jest . 
As we were about to depart John said It does not rain at present , sir , but I think it will . 
You had better take an umbrella . 
I did so , and away we went . 
We passed over the bridge , and turning to the right went by the back of the town through a field . 
I remember the ladies , sir , particularly the last , who lived by herself after her companion died . 
She was a good lady , and very kind to the poor when they came to her gate they were never sent away without something to cheer them . 
She was a grand lady too kept grand company , and used to be drawn about in a coach by four horses . 
But she too is gone , and the house is cold and empty no fire in it , sir no furniture . 
There was an auction after her death and a grand auction it was and lasted four days . 
Oh , what a throng of people there was , some of whom came from a great distance to buy the curious things , of which there were plenty . 
Continuing our way we came to a glen , down which the torrent comes which passes under the bridge . 
There was little water in the bed of the torrent , and we crossed easily enough by stepping stones . 
I looked up the glen a wild place enough , its sides overgrown with trees . 
Dreary and dismal it looked in the gloom of the closing evening . 
John Jones said that there was no regular path up it , and that one could only get along by jumping from stone to stone , at the hazard of breaking one's legs . 
Having passed over the bed of the torrent , we came to a path , which led up the mountain . 
The path was very steep and stony the glen with its trees and darkness on our right . 
At length John Jones pointed to a hollow lane on our right , seemingly leading into the glen . 
That place , sir , said he , is called Pant y Gwyddel the Irishman's dingle , and sometimes Pant Paddy , from the Irish being fond of taking up their quarters there . 
I shall never forget the fright I was in , both on account of my life , and my ten shillings . 
I ran down what remained of the hill as fast as I could , not minding the stones . 
As we ascended higher we gradually diverged from the glen , though we did not lose sight of it till we reached the top of the mountain . 
The top was nearly level . 
On our right were a few fields enclosed with stone walls . 
On our left was an open space where whin , furze and heath were growing . 
We passed over the summit , and began to descend by a tolerably good , though steep road . 
Even as it was , noble glimpses of wood and rock were occasionally to be obtained . 
The mist soon wetted us to the skin notwithstanding that we put up our umbrellas . 
Parent of thieves and patron best , They brave pursuit within thy breast ! Mostly from thee its merciless snow Grim January doth glean , I trow . 
As we descended , the path became more steep it was particularly so at a part where it was overshadowed with trees on both sides . 
Here , finding walking very uncomfortable , my knees suffering much , I determined to run . 
So shouting to John Jones , Nis gallav gerdded rhaid rhedeg , I set off running down the pass . 
My companion followed close behind , and luckily meeting no mischance , we presently found ourselves on level ground , amongst a collection of small houses . 
On our turning a corner a church appeared on our left hand on the slope of the hill . 
In the churchyard , and close to the road , grew a large yew tree which flung its boughs far on every side . 
I looked , and through the lower branches of the yew , which hung over part of the churchyard , I saw what appeared to be a mausoleum . 
Jones told me that in the church also there was the tomb of a great person of the name of Tyrwhitt . 
We passed on by various houses till we came nearly to the bottom of the valley . 
I asked him where we were . 
At Llyn Ceiriog , he replied . 
Jones went his way and I proceeded to the gwestfa , the door of which stood invitingly open . 
There was nobody in the kitchen on my calling , however , a girl came , whom I bade in Welsh to bring me a pint of the best ale . 
The girl stared , but went away apparently to fetch it presently came the landlady , a good looking middle aged woman . 
I saluted her in Welsh and then asked her if she could speak English . 
She replied Tipyn bach , which interpreted , is , a little bit . 
I soon , however , found that she could speak it very passably , for two men coming in from the rear of the house she conversed with them in English . 
These two individuals seated themselves on chairs near the door , and called for beer . 
The girl brought in the ale , and I sat down by the fire , poured myself out a glass , and made myself comfortable . 
His companion was a small mean looking man , dressed in a black coat , and behaved to him with no little respect . 
Not only the landlady , but the two men , of whom I have previously spoken , appeared to know him and to treat him with deference . 
He and his companion presently went out to see after the horse . 
He then took his seat near me , and when the brandy was brought drank to my health . 
I said thank you , but nothing farther . 
He then began talking to the men and his companion upon indifferent subjects . 
After a little time John Jones came in , called for a glass of ale , and at my invitation seated himself between me and the stout personage . 
The latter addressed him roughly in English , but receiving no answer said , Ah , you no understand . 
You have no English and I no Welsh . 
You have not mastered Welsh yet Mr said one of the men to him . 
No ! said he I have been doing business with the Welsh forty years , but can't speak a word of their language . 
I sometimes guess at a word , spoken in the course of business , but am never sure . 
I told him if its name was Ceiriog no wonder there were plenty of stones in it , Ceiriog being derived from Cerrig , a rock . 
The men stared to hear me speak Welsh . 
Is the gentleman a Welshman ? said one of the men , near the door , to his companion he seems to speak Welsh very well . 
How should I know ? said the other , who appeared to be a low working man . 
Who are those people ? said I to John Jones . 
The smaller man is a workman at a flannel manufactory , said Jones . 
The other I do not exactly know . 
The man , however , soon put me out of all doubt with respect to his profession . 
I was at Chirk , said he and Mr So and so asked me to have a look at his new gig and horse , and have a ride . 
They were both brought out everything new gig new , harness new , and horse new . 
Mr So and so asked me what I thought of his turn out . 
However , we all got on the car four of us , and I was of course complimented with the ribbons . 
Well , we hadn't gone fifty yards before the horse , to make my words partly good , began to kick like a new 'un . 
Here he began to rear like a very devil . 
'Oh dear me ! says Mr So and so 'let me get out ! 'Keep where you are , says I , 'I can manage him . 
However , Mr So and so would not be ruled , and got out coming down , not on his legs , but his hands and knees . 
And then the two others said 'Let us get out ! 'Keep where you are , said I , 'I can manage him . 
But they must needs get out , or rather tumble out , for they both came down on the road , hard on their backs . 
'Get out yourself , said they all , 'and let the devil go , or you are a done man . 
'Getting out may do for you young hands , says I , 'but it won't do for I neither my back nor bones will stand the hard road . 
Mr So and so ran to the horse's head . 
So Mr So and so got out of the way , and down flew the horse right down the descent , as fast as he could gallop . 
However , I contrived , as I said I would , to manage him kept the car from the rock and from the edge of the gulf too . 
Well , just when we had come to the bottom of the hill out comes the people running from the inn , almost covering the road . 
'Now get out of the way , I shouts , 'if you don't wish to see your brains knocked out , and what would be worse , mine too . 
So they gets out of the way , and on I spun , I and my devil . 
But by this time I had nearly taken the devil out of him . 
I am a great lover of horses , and an admirer of good driving , and should have wished to have some conversation with this worthy person about horses and their management . 
We were about to ascend the hill when John Jones asked me whether I should not like to see the bridge and the river . 
I told him I should . 
The bridge and the river presented nothing remarkable . 
The former was of a single arch and the latter anything but abundant in its flow . 
We now began to retrace our steps over the mountain . 
At first the mist appeared to be nearly cleared away . 
As we proceeded , however , large sheets began to roll up the mountain sides , and by the time we reached the summit were completely shrouded in vapour . 
Drenched to the skin , but uninjured in body and limb , we at length reached Llangollen . 
CHAPTER XVIII Venerable Old Gentleman Surnames in Wales Russia and Britain Church of England Yriarte The Eagle and his Young Poets of the Gael The Oxonian Master Salisburie . 
One afternoon I said Let us go and pay a visit to your old friend of the shop . 
I think from two or three things which you have told me about him , that he must be worth knowing . 
The shop was small , with two little counters , one on each side . 
Behind one was a young woman , and behind the other a venerable looking old man . 
I have brought my husband to visit you , said my wife , addressing herself to him . 
I am most happy to see him , said the old gentleman , making me a polite bow . 
On the left side of the room was a large case , well stored with books . 
He offered us chairs , and we all sat down . 
I was much struck with the old man . 
He was rather tall , and somewhat inclined to corpulency . 
His hair was grey his forehead high his nose aquiline his eyes full of intelligence whilst his manners were those of a perfect gentleman . 
I entered into conversation by saying that I supposed his name was Jones , as I had observed that name over the door . 
Jones is the name I bear at your service , sir , he replied . 
I asked him whether the Bulkleys of Anglesea were not originally an English family . 
He said they were , and that they settled down in Anglesea in the time of Elizabeth . 
After some minutes my wife got up and left us . 
The old gentleman and I had then some discourse in Welsh we soon , however , resumed speaking English . 
I will not be positive , said I , but I think from its tone and tenor that it was composed by Merddyn , whom my countrymen call Merlin . 
I believe you are right , said the old gentleman , I see you know something of Welsh poetry . 
I met the line , a long time ago , in a Welsh grammar . 
It then made a great impression upon me , and of late it has always been ringing in my ears . 
Britain has just engaged in a war with a mighty country , and I am apprehensive of the consequences . 
I cannot get the line out of my head . 
If it be so , said the old church clerk , they have not yet shown themselves in the pulpit at Llangollen . 
All the clergymen who have held the living in my time have been excellent . 
The present incumbent is a model of a Church of England clergyman . 
Oh , how I regret that the state of my eyes prevents me from officiating as clerk beneath him . 
I told him that I should never from the appearance of his eyes have imagined that they were not excellent ones . 
I can see to walk about with them , and to distinguish objects , said the old gentleman but see to read with them I cannot . 
Even with the help of the most powerful glasses I cannot distinguish a letter . 
I believe I strained my eyes at a very early age , when striving to read at night by the glimmer of the turf fire in my poor mother's chimney corner . 
He showed me his books . 
Seeing amongst them The Fables of Yriarte in Spanish , I asked how they came into his possession . 
They were presented to me , said he , by one of the ladies of Llangollen , Lady Eleanor Butler . 
He then asked me if I knew Spanish , and on my telling him that I had some knowledge of that language , he asked me to translate some of the fables . 
I translated two of them , which pleased him much . 
I then asked if he had ever heard of a collection of Welsh fables compiled about the year thirteen hundred . 
He said that he had not , and inquired whether they had ever been printed . 
I told him that some had appeared in the old Welsh magazine called The Greal . 
I wish you would repeat one of them , said the old clerk . 
The old gentleman , after a moment's reflection , said it was a clever fable , but an unpleasant one . 
Perhaps , said I , the eagle does not deal with his chicks , or the Lord with His creatures as the fable represents . 
Let us hope at any rate , said the old gentleman , that the Lord does not . 
Have you ever seen this book ? said he , and put Smith's Sean Dana into my hand . 
Oh , yes , said I , and have gone through it . 
It contains poems in the Gaelic language by Oisin and others , collected in the Highlands . 
I went through it a long time ago with great attention . 
Some of the poems are wonderfully beautiful . 
They are so , said the old clerk . 
I too have gone through the book it was presented to me a great many years ago by a lady to whom I gave some lessons in the Welsh language . 
I went through it with the assistance of a Gaelic grammar and dictionary , which she also presented to me , and I was struck with the high tone of the poetry . 
After a little more discourse about Ossian , the old gentleman asked me if there was any good modern Gaelic poetry . 
None very modern , said I the last great poets of the Gael were Macintyre and Buchanan , who flourished about the middle of the last century . 
The first sang of love and of Highland scenery the latter was a religious poet . 
The best piece of Macintyre is an ode to Ben Dourain , or the Hill of the Water dogs a mountain in the Highlands . 
Singular that the two best pieces on the Day of Judgment should have been written in two Celtic dialects , and much about the same time but such is the fact . 
Really , said the old church clerk , you seem to know something of Celtic literature . 
A little , said I I am a bit of a philologist and when studying languages dip a little into the literature which they contain . 
As I had heard him say that he had occasionally given lessons in the Welsh language , I inquired whether any of his pupils had made much progress in it . 
The generality , said he , soon became tired of its difficulties , and gave it up without making any progress at all . 
Two or three got on tolerably well . 
One , however , acquired it in a time so short that it might be deemed marvellous . 
He was an Oxonian , and came down with another in the vacation in order to study hard against the yearly collegiate examination . 
One day he and his friend came to me , who was then clerk , and desired to see the interior of the church . 
So I took the key and went with them into the church . 
When he came to the altar he took up the large Welsh Common Prayer Book , which was lying there , and looked into it . 
'A curious language this Welsh , said he 'I should like to learn it . 
'Many have wished to learn it , without being able , said I 'it is no easy language . 
'I should like to try , he replied 'I wish I could find some one who would give me a few lessons . 
'I have occasionally given instructions in Welsh , said I , 'and shall be happy to oblige you . 
Well , it was agreed that he should take lessons of me and to my house he came every evening , and I gave him what instructions I could . 
I was astonished at his progress . 
He acquired the pronunciation in a lesson , and within a week was able to construe and converse . 
Oh , he was the cleverest man for language that I ever knew not a word that he heard did he ever forget . 
Just like Mezzofanti , said I , the great cardinal philologist . 
But whilst learning Welsh , did he not neglect his collegiate studies ? Well , I was rather apprehensive on that point , said the old gentleman , but mark the event . 
I have never heard of so extraordinary an individual , said I. I could no more have done what you say he did , than I could have taken wings and flown . 
Pray , what was his name ? His name , said the old gentleman , was Earl . 
I was much delighted with my new acquaintance , and paid him frequent visits the more I saw him the more he interested me . 
CHAPTER XIX The Vicar and his Family Evan Evans Foaming Ale Llam y Lleidyr Baptism Joost Van Vondel Over to Rome The Miller's Man Welsh and English . 
WE had received a call from the Vicar of Llangollen and his lady we had returned it , and they had done us the kindness to invite us to take tea with them . 
A delightful residence was the vicarage , situated amongst trees in the neighbourhood of the Dee . 
During tea Mr E. and I had a great deal of discourse . 
I found him to be a first rate Greek and Latin scholar , and also a proficient in the poetical literature of his own country . 
And I , I replied , because he was a great poet , and like myself fond of a glass of cwrw da . 
Some time after tea the younger Mr E. and myself took a walk in an eastern direction along a path cut in the bank , just above the stream . 
Oh yes , said young Mr E. my brothers and myself are in the habit of bathing there almost every morning . 
We will go to it if you please . 
We proceeded , and soon came to the pool . 
The pool is a beautiful sheet of water , seemingly about one hundred and fifty yards in length , by about seventy in width . 
It is bounded on the east by a low ridge of rocks forming a weir . 
The banks on both sides are high and precipitous , and covered with trees , some of which shoot their arms for some way above the face of the pool . 
This is said to be the deepest pool in the whole course of the Dee , varying in depth from twenty to thirty feet . 
We returned to the vicarage , and at about ten we all sat down to supper . 
On the supper table was a mighty pitcher full of foaming ale . 
There , said my excellent host , as he poured me out a glass , there is a glass of cwrw , which Evan Evans himself might have drunk . 
Here we found a fern which John Jones called Coed llus y Bran , or the plant of the Crow's berry . 
There was a hard kind of berry upon it , of which he said the crows were exceedingly fond . 
We also discovered two or three other strange plants , the Welsh names of which our guide told us , and which were curious and descriptive enough . 
He took us home by a romantic path which we had never before seen , and on our way pointed out to us a small house in which he said he was born . 
A man passing near me with a cart I asked him where the Robber's Leap was . 
I spoke in English , and with a shake of his head he replied Dim Saesneg . 
On my putting the question to him in Welsh , however , his countenance brightened up . 
Dyna Llam Lleidyr , sir ! said he , pointing to a very narrow part of the stream a little way down . 
And did the thief take it from this side ? I demanded . 
Yes , sir , from this side , replied the man . 
I thanked him , and passing over the dry part of the river's bed , came to the Llam Lleidyr . 
If the thief ever took the leap he must have taken it in the dry season , for in the wet the Dee is a wide and roaring torrent . 
Yet even in the dry season it is difficult to conceive how anybody could take this leap , for on the other side is a rock rising high above the dark gurgling stream . 
He now told me that he expected that I should build a villa and settle down in the neighbourhood , as I seemed so fond of it . 
His father was a Baptist minister , who when Morgan was about six years of age , went to live at Canol Lyn , a place at some little distance from Port Heli . 
With his father he continued till he was old enough to gain his own maintenance , when he went to serve a farmer in the neighbourhood . 
About four years before the present time he came to where he now lived , where he commenced selling coals , at first on his own account and subsequently for some other person . 
He concluded his narration by saying that he was now sixty two years of age , was afflicted with various disorders , and believed that he was breaking up . 
Such was Morgan's history certainly not a very remarkable one . 
Yet Morgan was a most remarkable individual , as I shall presently make appear . 
After a little time he began to talk about the great men who had risen up amongst the Baptists , and mentioned two or three distinguished individuals . 
I said that he had not mentioned the greatest man who had been born amongst the Baptists . 
What was his name ? said he . 
His name was Joost Van Vondel , I replied . 
I never heard of him before , said Morgan . 
Very probably , said I he was born , bred , and died in Holland . 
Has he been dead long ? said Morgan . 
About two hundred years , said I. That's a long time , said Morgan , and maybe is the reason that I never heard of him . 
Oh I daresay he was a great man if he was a Baptist , said Morgan . 
Well , it's strange I never read of him . 
I thought I had read the lives of all the eminent people who lived and died in our communion . 
Well , that's not quite so bad , said Morgan however , it's bad enough . 
I daresay he was a pretty blackguard . 
No , said I he was a pure virtuous character , and perhaps the only pure and virtuous character that ever went over to Rome . 
The only wonder is that so good a man could ever have gone over to so detestable a church but he appears to have been deluded . 
Deluded indeed ! said Morgan . 
However , I suppose he went over for advancement's sake . 
How did he support himself ? said Morgan . 
He obtained a livelihood , said I , by writing poems and plays , some of which are wonderfully fine . 
What , said Morgan , a writer of Interludes ? One of Twm o'r Nant's gang ! I thought he would turn out a pretty fellow . 
I told him that the person in question certainly did write Interludes , for example Noah , and Joseph at Goshen , but that he was a highly respectable , nay venerable character . 
He might be a clever man , I don't say he was not . 
As for his leaving the Baptists I don't believe a word of it he was turned out of the connection , and then went about the country saying he left it . 
In the evening I took a walk with my wife and daughter past the Plas Newydd . 
Coming to the little mill called the Melyn Bac , at the bottom of the gorge , we went into the yard to observe the water wheel . 
We found that it was turned by a very little water , which was conveyed to it by artificial means . 
On my repeating to him verses from Taliesin he understood them , and to show me that he did , translated some of the lines into English . 
Two or three respectable looking lads , probably the miller's sons , came out , and listened to us . 
One of them said we were both good Welshmen . 
He said it was and that it was over the mountains not far from Llan Sanfraid . 
I asked whether it was not called Pont y Meibion . 
He answered in the affirmative , and added that he had himself been there , and had sat in Huw Morris's stone chair which was still to be seen by the road's side . 
I told him that I hoped to visit the place in a few days . 
What a difference , said I to my wife , after we had departed , between a Welshman and an Englishman of the lower class . 
What would a Suffolk miller's swain have said if I had repeated to him verses out of Beowulf or even Chaucer , and had asked him about the residence of Skelton . 
CHAPTER XX Huw Morris Immortal Elegy The Valley of Ceiriog Tangled Wilderness Perplexity Chair of Huw Morris The Walking Stick Huw's Descendant Pont y Meibion . 
Huw Morus or Morris , was born in the year on the banks of the Ceiriog . 
His life was a long one , for he died at the age of eighty four , after living in six reigns . 
He then assisted his elder brother , and on his elder brother's death , lived with his son . 
He did not distinguish himself as a husbandman , and appears never to have been fond of manual labour . 
Strange to say the Independents , when they had the upper hand , never interfered with him though they persecuted certain Royalist poets of far inferior note . 
He died in the reign of good Queen Anne . 
In his youth his conduct was rather dissolute , but irreproachable and almost holy in his latter days a kind of halo surrounded his old brow . 
Huw wrote on various subjects , mostly in common and easily understood measures . 
So John Jones and myself set off across the Berwyn to visit the birthplace of the great poet Huw Morris . 
We ascended the mountain by Allt Paddy . 
The morning was lowering and before we had half got to the top it began to rain . 
John Jones was in his usual good spirits . 
Suddenly taking me by the arm he told me to look to the right across the gorge to a white house , which he pointed out . 
What is there in that house ? said I. An aunt of mine lives there , said he . 
Having frequently heard him call old women his aunts , I said , Every poor old woman in the neighbourhood seems to be your aunt . 
The woman held up her hands , and a carter who was in the kitchen somewhat the worse for liquor , shouted applause . 
After asking a few questions as to the road we were to take , we left the house , and in a little time entered the valley of Ceiriog . 
Passing on we came to a place called Pandy uchaf , or the higher Fulling mill . 
The place so called is a collection of ruinous houses , which put me in mind of the Fulling mills mentioned in Don Quixote . 
Just above the old mill there is a meeting of streams , the Tarw from the west rolls down a dark valley into the Ceiriog . 
At the entrance of this valley and just before you reach the Pandy , which it nearly overhangs , is an enormous crag . 
Telling me to wait , he went to the house , and asked some questions . 
This is the gentleman said he , who wishes to see anything there may be here connected with Huw Morris . 
We first of all wish to see his chair , said John Jones . 
, said the old gentlewoman it is cut out of the stone wall , you will have maybe some difficulty in getting to it , but the girl shall show it to you . 
The girl now motioned to us to follow her , and conducted us across the road to some stone steps , over a wall to a place which looked like a plantation . 
This was the old road , said Jones but the place has been enclosed . 
The new road is above us on our right hand beyond the wall . 
Let us go back , said I we must have passed it . 
I now went first , breaking down with my weight the shrubs nearest to the wall . 
Is not this the place ? said I , pointing to a kind of hollow in the wall , which looked something like the shape of a chair . 
Hardly , said the girl , for there should be a slab on the back , with letters , but there's neither slab nor letters here . 
The ground , however , was rather more level . 
I pitied the poor girl who led the way , and whose fat naked arms were both stung and torn . 
She at last stopped amidst a huge grove of nettles , doing the best she could to shelter her arms from the stinging leaves . 
Well does the Scripture say 'Dim prophwyd yw yn cael barch yn ei dir ei hunan . 
This last sentence tickled the fancy of my worthy friend , the Calvinistic Methodist , he laughed aloud and repeated it over and over again to the females , with amplifications . 
Is the chair really here , said I , or has it been destroyed ? if such a thing has been done it is a disgrace to Wales . 
The chair is really here , said the old lady , and though Huw Morus was no prophet , we love and reverence everything belonging to him . 
Sit down in the chair , Gwr Boneddig , said John Jones , you have taken trouble enough to get to it . 
Do , gentleman , said the old lady but first let me wipe it with my apron , for it is very wet and dirty . 
I then sat down in the chair , and commenced repeating verses of Huw Morris . 
The kind creature then produced a sword without a scabbard this sword was found by Huw Morris on the mountain it belonged to one of Oliver's officers who was killed there . 
A man like Thistlewood would have whipped it through his adversary in a twinkling . 
I shook her by the hand , and gave the chubby bare armed damsel a shilling , pointing to the marks of the nettle stings on her fat bacon like arms . 
She laughed , made me a curtsey , and said Llawer iawn o diolch . 
He then conducted us into the house , a common looking stone tenement , and bade us be seated . 
I asked him if he was a descendant of Huw Morus he said he was I asked him his name , which he said was Huw . 
Have you any of the manuscripts of Huw Morus ? said I. None , said he , but I have one of the printed copies of his works . 
He then went to a drawer , and taking out a book , put it into my hand , and seated himself in a blunt , careless manner . 
The book was the first volume of the common Wrexham edition of Huw's works it was much thumbed I commenced reading aloud a piece which I had much admired in my boyhood . 
After all what a beautiful thing it is , not to be , but to have been a genius . 
I asked him the name of the house , and he said Pont y Meibion . 
But where is the bridge ? said I. The bridge , he replied , is close by , over the Ceiriog . 
If you wish to see it , you must go down yon field , the house is called after the bridge . 
Bidding him farewell , we crossed the road and going down the field speedily arrived at Pont y Meibion . 
On the right hand side it is shaded by an ash . 
I asked him why the bridge was called Pont y Meibion , which signifies the bridge of the children . 
It was built originally by children , said he , for the purpose of crossing the brook . 
That bridge , said I , was never built by children . 
The first bridge , said he , was of wood , and was built by the children of the houses above . 
Not quite satisfied with his explanation , I asked him to what place the little bridge led , and was told that he believed it led to an upland farm . 
After taking a long and wistful view of the bridge and the scenery around it , I turned my head in the direction of Llangollen . 
The adventures of the day were , however , not finished . 
CHAPTER XXI The Gloomy Valley The Lonely Cottage Happy Comparison Clogs The Alder Swamp The Wooden Leg The Militiaman Death bed Verses . 
I said that I was afraid that if he was a rent collector , both he and I should have a sorry welcome . 
No fear , he replied , the people are very good people , and pay their rent very regularly , and without saying another word he led the way up the valley . 
The Tarw , said she , and this village is called Pandy Teirw . 
The valley was wild and solitary to an extraordinary degree , the brook or torrent running in the middle of it covered with alder trees . 
It wants its dinner , said John Jones , and opened the gate for me to pass , taking precautions that the screamer did not enter at the same time . 
We entered the cottage , very glad to get into it , a storm of wind and rain having just come on . 
Nobody was in the kitchen when we entered , it looked comfortable enough , however , there was an excellent fire of wood and coals , and a very snug chimney corner . 
She asked us to sit down . 
And who are you ? said I. I am only a lodger , said she , I lodge here with my husband who is a clog maker . 
Can he speak Welsh ? said I. Not a word , said she . 
We always speak English together . 
John Jones sat down , and I looked about the room . 
Joseph Sanders , on the table was a newspaper . 
Is that in Welsh ? said I. No , replied the woman , it is the BOLTON CHRONICLE , my husband reads it . 
I sat down in the chimney corner . 
The wind was now howling abroad , and the rain was beating against the cottage panes presently a gust of wind came down the chimney , scattering sparks all about . 
A cataract of sparks ! said I , using the word Rhaiadr . 
What is Rhaiadr ? said the woman I never heard the word before . 
Rhaiadr means water tumbling over a rock , said John Jones did you never see water tumble over the top of a rock ? Frequently , said she . 
She then went out and presently returned with an infant in her arms and sat down . 
Was that child born in Wales ? I demanded . 
No , said she , he was born at Bolton , about eighteen months ago we have been here only a year . 
Do many English , said I , marry Welsh wives ? A great many , said she . 
Plenty of Welsh girls are married to Englishmen at Bolton . 
Do the Englishmen make good husbands ? said I. The woman smiled and presently sighed . 
Her husband , said Jones , is fond of a glass of ale and is often at the public house . 
I make no complaint , said the woman , looking somewhat angrily at John Jones . 
Is your husband a tall bulky man ? said I. Just so , said the woman . 
The largest of the two men we saw the other night at the public house at Llansanfraid , said I to John Jones . 
I don't know him , said Jones , though I have heard of him , but I have no doubt that was he . 
I asked the woman how her husband could carry on the trade of a clog maker in such a remote place and also whether he hawked his clogs about the country . 
I suppose , said I , that what you call clogs are wooden shoes . 
Just so , said Jones they are principally used in the neighbourhood of Manchester . 
John Jones now asked her if she could give him a tamaid of bread she said she could , and some butter with it . 
She then went out and presently returned with a loaf and some butter . 
But you have nothing to drink with it , said I to him . 
When my husband goes to Llansanfraid he goes less for the ale than for the conversation , because there is little English spoken at the Pandy however good the ale . 
We proceeded some way farther up the valley , till we came to a place where the ground descended a little . 
Here Jones touching me on the shoulder pointed across the stream . 
Following with my eye the direction of his finger , I saw two or three small sheds with a number of small reddish blocks in regular piles beneath them . 
Several trees felled from the side of the torrent were lying near , some of them stripped of their arms and bark . 
A small tree formed a bridge across the brook to the sheds . 
I see there is no work going on at present or we would go over the woman told me that her husband was at Llangollen . 
What a strange place to come to work at , said I , out of crowded England . 
Here is nothing to be heard but the murmuring of waters and the rushing of wind down the gulleys . 
After going a little further up the glen and observing nothing more remarkable than we had seen already , we turned back . 
We entered the little hostelry which was one of two or three shabby looking houses , standing in contact , close by the Ceiriog . 
John Jones soon finding a chair came and sat down by me , when I forthwith called for a quart of cwrw da . 
I told him that it was the duty of every gentleman in the militia to be willing at all times to lay down his life in the service of the Queen . 
He then asked me whether I thought the militia would be again called out . 
You ought to rejoice in your chance of going there , said I , Iwerddon is a beautiful country , and abounds with whisky . 
And the Irish ? said he . 
Hearty , jolly fellows , said I , if you know how to manage them , and all gentlemen . 
He then said that he hoped somebody would speedily kill Nicholas , in order that the war might be at an end and himself not sent to Iwerddon . 
He then asked if I thought Cronstadt could be taken . 
I said I believed it could , provided the hearts of those who were sent to take it were in the right place . 
Where do you think the hearts of those are who are gone against it ? said he speaking with great vehemence . 
I made no other answer than by taking my glass and drinking . 
His companion now looking at our habiliments which were in rather a dripping condition asked John Jones if we had come from far . 
Jones took the pocket book and pencil and went to the window , followed by the young man scarcely able to support himself . 
At last , methought , the young man said There they are , the verses of the Nightingale , on his death bed . 
Do you understand those verses ? said the man on the settle , a dark swarthy fellow with an oblique kind of vision , and dressed in a pepper and salt coat . 
A scene in a public house , yes ! but in a Welsh public house . 
Only think of a Suffolk toper repeating the death bed verses of a poet surely there is a considerable difference between the Celt and the Saxon . 
CHAPTER XXII Llangollen Fair Buyers and Sellers The Jockey The Greek Cap . 
ON the twenty first was held Llangollen Fair . 
The day was dull with occasional showers . 
I went to see the fair about noon . 
The pigs were all small , and the price given seemed to vary from eighteen to twenty five shillings . 
Much business in the cattle line did not seem , however , to be going on . 
There were a few horses and ponies in the street leading into the fair from the south . 
I saw none sold , however . 
He wore a cap and a brown jockey coat , trowsers , leggings and high lows , and sported a single spur . 
CHAPTER XXIII An Expedition Pont y Pandy The Sabbath Glendower's Mount Burial Place of Old Corwen The Deep Glen The Grandmother The Roadside Chapel . 
I WAS now about to leave Llangollen , for a short time , and to set out on an expedition to Bangor , Snowdon , and one or two places in Anglesea . 
I had determined to make the journey on foot , in order that I might have perfect liberty of action , and enjoy the best opportunities of seeing the country . 
About eleven o'clock of a brilliant Sunday morning I left Llangollen , after reading the morning service of the Church to my family . 
I set out on a Sunday because I was anxious to observe the general demeanour of the people , in the interior of the country , on the Sabbath . 
I directed my course towards the west , to the head of the valley . 
My wife and daughter after walking with me about a mile bade me farewell , and returned . 
About an hour's walking , from the time when I entered the valley , brought me to a bridge over a gorge , down which water ran to the Dee . 
I stopped and looked over the side of the bridge nearest to the hill . 
The rock looked exactly like a huge whale lying on its side , with its back turned towards the runnel . 
Above it was a glen of trees . 
The name of the bridge , sir , said the man , in very good English , is Pont y Pandy . 
Does not that mean the bridge of the fulling mill ? I believe it does , sir , said the man . 
Is there a fulling mill near ? No , sir , there was one some time ago , but it is now a sawing mill . 
Here a woman , coming out , looked at me steadfastly . 
Is that gentlewoman your wife ? She is no gentlewoman , sir , but she is my wife . 
Of what religion are you ? We are Calvinistic Methodists , sir . 
Have you been to chapel ? We are just returned , sir . 
Here the woman said something to her husband , which I did not hear , but the purport of which I guessed from the following question which he immediately put . 
Have you been to chapel , sir ? I do not go to chapel I belong to the Church . 
Have you been to church , sir ? I have not I said my prayers at home , and then walked out . 
It is not right to walk out on the Sabbath day , except to go to church or chapel . 
Who told you so ? The law of God , which says you shall keep holy the Sabbath day . 
I am not keeping it unholy . 
But He came in the shape of a man to set an example . 
Had there been anything wrong in walking about on the Sabbath day , He would not have done it . 
But you still consider them , said I , the seed of Y Sarfes cadwynog , the coiling serpent . 
I should be loth to call any people the seed of the serpent , said the woman . 
But one of your great bards did , said I. He must have belonged to the Church , and not to the chapel then , said the woman . 
No person who went to chapel would have used such bad words . 
But I have , said the man and of Owain Glendower too . 
Is it easy to find ? said I. Very easy , said the man , it stands right upon the Dee and is covered with trees there is no mistaking it . 
I bade the man and his wife farewell , and proceeded on my way . 
After walking about a mile , I perceived a kind of elevation which answered to the description of Glendower's mount , which the man by the bridge had given me . 
It stood on the right hand , at some distance from the road , across a field . 
As I was standing looking at it a man came up from the direction in which I myself had come . 
He was a middle aged man , plainly but decently dressed , and had something of the appearance of a farmer . 
What hill may that be ? said I in English , pointing to the elevation . 
Dim Saesneg , sir , said the man , looking rather sheepish , Dim gair o Saesneg . 
Rather surprised that a person of his appearance should not have a word of English , I repeated my question in Welsh . 
Ah , you speak Cumraeg , sir said the man evidently surprised that a person of my English appearance should speak Welsh . 
I am glad of it ! What hill is that , you ask Dyna Mont Owain Glyndwr , sir . 
Is it easy to get to ? said I. Quite easy , sir , said the man . 
If you please I will go with you . 
I thanked him , and opening a gate he conducted me across the field to the mount of the Welsh hero . 
The mount of Owen Glendower stands close upon the southern bank of the Dee , and is nearly covered with trees of various kinds . 
It is about thirty feet high from the plain , and about the same diameter at the top . 
The hill is evidently the work of art , and appeared to me to be some burying place of old . 
And this is the hill of Owain Glyndwr ? said I. Dyma Mont Owain Glyndwr , sir , lle yr oedd yn sefyll i edrych am ei elvnion yn dyfod o Gaer Lleon . 
This is the hill of Owain Glendower , sir , where he was in the habit of standing to look out for his enemies coming from Chester . 
I suppose it was not covered with trees then ? said I. No , sir it has not been long planted with trees . 
They say , however , that the oaks which hang over the river are very old . 
Do they say who raised this hill ? Some say that God raised it , sir others that Owain Glendower raised it . 
Who do you think raised it ? I believe that it was raised by man , but not by Owen Glendower . 
Heaps like this have frequently been opened , and found to contain pots with ashes and bones . 
I wish all English could speak Welsh , sir . 
Why ? Because then we poor Welsh who can speak no English could learn much which we do not know . 
Descending the monticle we walked along the road together . 
After a little time I asked my companion of what occupation he was and where he lived . 
I am a small farmer , sir , said he , and live at Llansanfraid Glyn Dyfrdwy across the river . 
Of what religion are you ? said I. I am of the Church , he replied . 
I soon passed over a little stream , the name of which I was told was Alowan . 
After walking for about five miles I came to a beautiful but wild country of mountain and wood with here and there a few cottages . 
There I stationed myself , and for some time enjoyed one of the wildest and most beautiful scenes imaginable . 
Below me was the deep narrow glen or ravine , down which a mountain torrent roared and foamed . 
Eager for immortality , Mr T. , said I but you are no H. M. , no Huw Morris . 
An aged woman sat on a stool by the door . 
A fine evening , said I in English . 
Dim Saesneg said the aged woman . 
Oh , the blessing of being able to speak Welsh , said I and then repeated in that language what I had said to her in the other tongue . 
I daresay , said the aged woman , to those who can see . 
Can you not see ? Very little . 
Can you not see me ? I can see something tall and dark before me that is all . 
Can you tell me the name of the bridge ? Pont y Glyn bin the bridge of the glen of trouble . 
And what is the name of this place ? Pen y bont the head of the bridge . 
What is your own name ? Catherine Hughes . 
How old are you ? Fifteen after three twenties . 
I have a mother three after four twenties that is eight years older than yourself . 
Can she see ? Better than I she can read the smallest letters . 
May she long be a comfort to you ! Thank you are you the mistress of the house ? I am the grandmother . 
Are the people in the house ? They are not they are at the chapel . 
And they left you alone ? They left me with my God . 
Is the chapel far from here ? About a mile . 
On the road to Cerrig y Drudion ? On the road to Cerrig y Drudion . 
I bade her farewell , and pushed on the road was good , with high rocky banks on each side . 
The door being open , I entered , and stood just within it , bare headed . 
A rather singular scene presented itself . 
Within a large dimly lighted room , a number of people were assembled , partly seated in rude pews , and partly on benches . 
I could distinguish the words , Jesus descend among us ! sweet Jesus descend among us quickly . 
He spoke very slowly , and towards the end of every sentence dropped his voice , so that what he said was anything but distinct . 
Emerging from the hollow way , I found myself on a moor , over which the road lay in the direction of the north . 
CHAPTER XXIV Cerrig y Drudion The Landlady Doctor Jones Coll Gwynfa The Italian Men of Como Disappointment Weather Glasses Southey . 
It seemed as decent and respectable a hostelry as any traveller could wish , to refresh and repose himself in , after a walk of twenty miles . 
I have this day come from Llangollen , and being somewhat hungry and fatigued , hope I can be accommodated here with a dinner and a bed . 
I took the seat with thanks , and she resumed her own . 
Rather hot weather for walking , sir ! said the precise looking gentleman . 
It is , said I but as I can't observe the country well without walking through it , I put up with the heat . 
You exhibit a philosophic mind , sir , said the precise looking gentleman and a philosophic mind I hold in reverence . 
Ah , said I , misfortunes ! they pursue every one , more especially those whose virtues should exempt them from them . 
Well , sir , the consciousness of not having deserved them should be your consolation . 
Sir , said the doctor , taking off his hat , you are infinitely kind . 
Surely you do not understand Welsh ? said the doctor . 
I understand a little of it , I replied . 
Will you allow me to speak to you in Welsh ? said the doctor . 
Certainly , said I. He spoke to me in Welsh , and I replied . 
Ha , ha , said the landlady in English only think , doctor , of the gentleman understanding Welsh we must mind what we say before him . 
And are you an Englishman ? said the doctor . 
I am , I replied . 
And how came you to learn it ? I am fond of languages , said I , and studied Welsh at an early period . 
And you read Welsh poetry ? Oh yes . 
How were you enabled to master its difficulties ? Chiefly by going through Owen Pugh's version of 'Paradise Lost' twice , with the original by my side . 
You pursued a very excellent plan , sir , said the doctor , a very excellent plan indeed . 
Owen Pugh ! Owen Pugh ! The last of your very great men , said I. You say right , sir , said the doctor . 
He was indeed our last great man Ultimus Romanorum . 
Did you know him ? said I. I had not the honour of his acquaintance , said the doctor but , sir , I am happy to say that I have made yours . 
The landlady now began to talk to me about dinner , and presently went out to make preparations for that very important meal . 
I had a great deal of conversation with the doctor , whom I found a person of great and varied information , and one who had seen a vast deal of the world . 
I am a country surgeon , and of course an accoucheur . 
There is a lady who lives at some distance requiring my assistance . 
It is with grief I leave you so abruptly , but I hope that some time or other we shall meet again . 
Then making me an exceedingly profound bow , he left the room , followed by the boy . 
I dined upstairs in a very handsome drawing room , communicating with a sleeping apartment . 
During dinner I was waited upon by the daughter of the landlady , a good looking merry girl of twenty . 
I sat down with them and we were soon in conversation . 
We spoke of Doctor Jones the landlady said that he had his little eccentricities , but was an excellent and learned man . 
Speaking of herself she said that she had three daughters , that the youngest was with her and that the two eldest kept the principal inn at Ruthyn . 
We occasionally spoke a little Welsh . 
At length the landlady said , There is an Italian in the kitchen who can speak Welsh too . 
It's odd the only two people not Welshmen I have ever known who could speak Welsh , for such you and he are , should be in my house at the same time . 
Dear me , said I I should like to see him . 
That you can easily do , said the girl I daresay he will be glad enough to come in if you invite him . 
Pray take my compliments to him , said I , and tell him that I shall be glad of his company . 
The girl went out and presently returned with the Italian . 
Buona sera ? said I. Buona sera , signore ! said the Italian . 
Will you have a glass of brandy and water ? said I in English . 
I never refuse a good offer , said the Italian . 
He sat down , and I ordered a glass of brandy and water for him and another for myself . 
Pray speak a little Italian to him , said the good landlady to me . 
I have heard a great deal about the beauty of that language , and should like to hear it spoken . 
From the Lago di Como ? said I , trying to speak Italian . 
They wandered about the country with boxes on their backs and weather glasses in their hands , but had their head quarters at N. where I lived . 
Do you remember any of their names ? said the Italian . 
Giovanni Gestra and Luigi Pozzi , I replied . 
I have seen Giovanni Gestra myself , said the Italian , and I have heard of Luigi Pozzi . 
Giovanni Gestra returned to the Lago but no one knows what is become of Luigi Pozzi . 
I myself have sold seventy pounds' worth of weather glasses at N. in one day . 
One of our people is living there now , who has done bene , molto bene . 
You may well say he has done well , for he is now the first jeweller in the place . 
The last time I was there I bought a diamond of him for my daughter Henrietta . 
Let us drink his health ! Willingly ! said the Italian . 
He is the prince of the Milanese of England the most successful of all , but I acknowledge the most deserving . 
I wish he would write his life , said I a singular life it would be he has been something besides a travelling merchant , and a jeweller . 
He was one of Buonaparte's soldiers , and served in Spain , under Soult , along with John Gestra . 
He once told me that Soult was an old rascal , and stole all the fine pictures from the convents , at Salamanca . 
I believe he spoke with some degree of envy , for he is himself fond of pictures , and has dealt in them , and made hundreds by them . 
I question whether if in Soult's place he would not have done the same . 
Well , however that may be , che viva . 
You must not judge of the sound of Italian from what proceeds from my mouth , said I. It is not my native language . 
I have had little practice in it , and only speak it very imperfectly . 
I have been doing my best to speak Italian , but should be glad now to speak English , which comes to me much more glibly . 
Are there any books in your dialect , or jergo , as I believe you call it ? said I. I believe there are a few , said the Italian . 
Do you know the word slandra ? said I. Who taught you that word ? said the Italian . 
Giovanni Gestra , said I he was always using it . 
Giovanni Gestra was a vulgar illiterate man , said the Italian had he not been so he would not have used it . 
It is a vulgar word Rossi would not have used it . 
What is the meaning of it ? said the landlady eagerly . 
To roam about in a dissipated manner , said I. Something more , said the Italian . 
It is considered a vulgar word even in jergo . 
You speak English remarkably well , said I have you been long in Britain ? I came over about four years ago , said the Italian . 
On your own account ? said I. Not exactly , signore my brother , who was in business in Liverpool , wrote to me to come over and assist him . 
I did so , but soon left him , and took a shop for myself at Denbigh , where , however , I did not stay long . 
At present I travel for an Italian house in London , spending the summer in Wales , and the winter in England . 
And what do you sell ? said I. Weather glasses , signore pictures and little trinkets , such as the country people like . 
Do you sell many weather glasses in Wales ? said I. I do not , signore . 
The Welsh care not for weather glasses my principal customers for weather glasses are the farmers of England . 
I am told that you can speak Welsh , said I is that true ? I have picked up a little of it , signore . 
He can speak it very well , said the landlady and glad should I be , sir , to hear you and him speak Welsh together . 
So should I , said the daughter who was seated nigh us , nothing would give me greater pleasure than to hear two who are not Welshmen speaking Welsh together . 
It is a pity , said I , that so beautiful a country as Italy should not be better governed . 
It is , signore , said the Italian but let us hope that a time will speedily come when she will be so . 
You will not find it an easy matter , said I , to get rid of the Austrians you tried to do so a little time ago , but miserably failed . 
True , signore but the next time we try perhaps the French will help us . 
If the French help you to drive the Austrians from Italy , said I , you must become their servants . 
However , I do not believe that you will ever get rid of the Austrians , even if the French assist you . 
The Pope for certain reasons of his own favours the Austrians , and will exert all the powers of priestcraft to keep them in Italy . 
Do not say so , signore , said the Italian , with a kind of groan . 
I repeated Filicaia's glorious sonnet on Italy , and then asked him if he understood it . 
Only in part , signore for it is composed in old Tuscan , in which I am not much versed . 
I believe I should comprehend it better if you were to say it in English . 
Do say it in English , said the landlady and her daughter we should so like to hear it in English . 
CHAPTER XXV Lacing up High lows The Native Village Game Leg Croppies Lie Down Keeping Faith Processions Croppies Get Up Daniel O'Connell . 
I SLEPT in the chamber communicating with the room in which I had dined . 
The chamber was spacious and airy , the bed first rate , and myself rather tired , so that no one will be surprised when I say that I had excellent rest . 
I got up , and after dressing myself went down . 
The morning was exceedingly brilliant . 
Going out I saw the Italian lacing up his high lows against a step . 
I saluted him , and asked him if he was about to depart . 
Yes , signore I shall presently start for Denbigh . 
Then you will have rather a long walk , signore for Bangor is thirty four miles from here . 
I asked him if he was married . 
No , signore but my brother in Liverpool is . 
To an Italian ? No , signore to a Welsh girl . 
Whether the Austrians are driven away or not ? said I. Whether the Austrians are driven away or not for to my mind there is no country like Como , signore . 
I thought of the course of time , sighed and felt a tear gather in my eye . 
My course lay west , across a flat country , bounded in the far distance by the mighty hills I had seen on the preceding evening . 
In his hand he carried a fiddle . 
Good morning to you , said I. A good morning to your hanner , a merry afternoon and a roaring , joyous evening that is the worst luck I wish to ye . 
A celebrated place , said I. Your hanner may say that all the world has heard of Donnybrook , owing to the humours of its fair . 
Many is the merry tune I have played to the boys at that fair . 
You are a professor of music , I suppose ? And not a very bad one , as your hanner will say , if you allow me to play you a tune . 
You are a Roman Catholic , I suppose ? I am not , your hanner I am a Catholic to the back bone , just like my father before me . 
Come , your hanner , shall I play ye Croppies Get Up ? No , said I it's a tune that doesn't please my ears . 
If , however , you choose to play Croppies Lie Down , I'll give you a shilling . 
Your hanner will give me a shilling ? Yes , said I if you play Croppies Lie Down but you know you cannot play it , your fingers never learned the tune . 
I give another shilling , said I but never mind you the words I know the words , and will repeat them . 
I never heard those words before , said the fiddler , after I had finished the first stanza . 
Get on with you , said I. Regular Orange words ! said the fiddler , on my finishing the second stanza . 
Do you choose to get on ? said I. More blackguard Orange words I never heard ! cried the fiddler , on my coming to the conclusion of the third stanza . 
Divil a bit farther will I play at any rate till I get the shilling . 
Here it is for you , said I the song is ended , and , of course , the tune . 
Thank your hanner , said the fiddler , taking the money , your hanner has kept your word with me , which is more than I thought your hanner would . 
Your hanner is an Orange man , I see . 
Well , your hanner , the Orange is now in the kennel , and the Croppies have it all their own way . 
And perhaps , said I , before I die , the Orange will be out of the kennel and the Croppies in , even as they were in my young days . 
And now as your hanner has behaved like a gentleman to me I will tell ye all my history . 
I was born in the city of Dublin , that is in the village of Donnybrook , as I tould your hanner before . 
But , your hanner , though I went the whole hog with the repalers and emancipators , they did not make their words good by making a man of me . 
Scant and sparing were they in the mate and drink , and yet more sparing in the money , and Daniel O'Connell never gave me the sovereign which he promised me . 
Och , your hanner , I often wished the ould Orange days were back again . 
Well , said I thank you for your history farewell . 
Farewell , said I. Farewell , your hanner , and long life and prosperity to you ! God bless your hanner and your Orange face . 
Ah , the Orange boys are the boys for keeping faith . 
They never served me as Dan O'Connell and his dirty gang of repalers and emancipators did . 
Farewell , your hanner , once more and here's another scratch of the illigant tune your hanner is so fond of , to cheer up your hanner's ears upon your way . 
And long after I had left him I could hear him playing on his fiddle in first rate style the beautiful tune of Down , down , Croppies Lie Down . 
CHAPTER XXVI Ceiniog Mawr Pentre Voelas The Old Conway Stupendous Pass The Gwedir Family Capel Curig The Two Children Bread Wonderful Echo Tremendous Walker . 
I WALKED on briskly over a flat uninteresting country , and in about an hour's time came in front of a large stone house . 
It stood near the road , on the left hand side , with a pond and pleasant trees before it , and a number of corn stacks behind . 
It had something the appearance of an inn , but displayed no sign . 
What is the name of this place ? said I to him in English as he drew nigh . 
Sir , said the man , the name of the house is Ceiniog Mawr . 
I was subsequently told that the name of this place was Cernioge Mawr . 
If such be the real name the legend about the mint falls to the ground , Cernioge having nothing to do with pence . 
Cern in Welsh means a jaw . 
Perhaps the true name of the house is Corniawg , which interpreted is a place with plenty of turrets or chimneys . 
After I had passed through the village , seeing a woman seated by the roadside knitting , I asked her in English its name . 
Finding she had no Saesneg I repeated the question in Welsh , whereupon she told me that it was called Pentre Voelas . 
After leaving the village of Pentre Voelas I soon found myself in a wild hilly region . 
I crossed a bridge over a river , which , brawling and tumbling amidst rocks , shaped its course to the north east . 
Water oozing from the bank upon a slanting tile fastened into the earth fell into it . 
Good day , said I to her in Welsh . 
In truth , sir , it is fine weather for the harvest . 
Are you alone in the house ? I am , sir , my husband has gone to his labour . 
Have you any children ? Two , sir but they are out at service . 
What is the name of this place ? Pant Paddock , sir . 
Do you get your water from the little well yonder ? We do , sir , and good water it is . 
I have drunk of it . 
Much good may what you have drunk do you , sir ! What is the name of the river near here ? It is called the Conway , sir . 
Dear me is that river the Conway ? You have heard of it , sir ? Heard of it ! it is one of the famous rivers of the world . 
The poets are very fond of it one of the great poets of my country calls it the old Conway . 
Is one river older than another , sir ? That's a shrewd question . 
Can you read ? I can , sir . 
Have you any books ? I have the Bible , sir . 
Will you show it me ? Willingly , sir . 
Then getting up she took a book from a shelf and handed it to me , at the same time begging me to enter the house and sit down . 
I declined , and she again took her seat and resumed her occupation . 
I may say these words , said I , pointing to the passage . 
Let me go through your country . 
No one will hinder you , sir , for you seem a civil gentleman . 
No one has hindered me hitherto . 
Wherever I have been in Wales I have experienced nothing but kindness and hospitality , and when I return to my own country I will say so . 
What country is yours , sir ? England . 
Did you not know that by my tongue ? I did not , sir . 
I knew by your tongue that you were not from our parts but I did not know that you were an Englishman . 
I took you for a Cumro of the south country . 
Returning the kind woman her book , and bidding her farewell I departed , and proceeded some miles through a truly magnificent country of wood , rock , and mountain . 
I was now amidst stupendous hills , whose paps , peaks , and pinnacles seemed to rise to the very heaven . 
This was the Dyffryn Conway , the celebrated Vale of Conway , to which in the summer time fashionable gentry from all parts of Britain resort for shade and relaxation . 
When about midway down the valley I turned to the west , up one of the grandest passes in the world , having two immense door posts of rock at the entrance . 
the northern one probably rising to the altitude of nine hundred feet . 
You mean a waterfall , I suppose ? said I. Yes , sir . 
And how do you call it ? said I. The Fall of the Swallow , sir . 
And in Welsh ? said I. Rhaiadr y Wennol , sir . 
And what is the name of the river ? said I. We call the river the Lygwy , sir . 
The Fall of the Swallow is not a majestic single fall , but a succession of small ones . 
First there are a number of little foaming torrents , bursting through rocks about twenty yards above the promontory on which I stood . 
Such is the Rhaiadr y Wennol , or Swallow Fall called so from the rapidity with which the waters rush and skip along . 
On asking the woman on whose property the fall was , she informed me that it was on the property of the Gwedir family . 
After giving the woman sixpence I left the fall , and proceeded on my way . 
It was a region of fairy beauty and of wild grandeur . 
Meeting an old bleared eyed farmer I inquired the name of the mountain and learned that it was called Moel Siabod or Shabod . 
Shortly after leaving him , I turned from the road to inspect a monticle which appeared to me to have something of the appearance of a burial heap . 
It stood in a green meadow by the river which ran down the valley on the left . 
Having walked now twenty miles in a broiling day I thought it high time to take some refreshment , and inquired the way to the inn . 
The road to Bangor from Capel Curig is almost due west . 
An hour's walking brought me to a bleak moor , extending for a long way amidst wild sterile hills . 
The first of a chain on the left , was a huge lumpy hill with a precipice towards the road probably three hundred feet high . 
Have you any English ? said I , addressing the boy in Welsh . 
Dim gair , said the boy not a word there is no Saesneg near here . 
What is the name of this place ? The name of our house is Helyg . 
And what is the name of that hill ? said I , pointing to the hill of the precipice . 
Allt y Gog the high place of the cuckoo . 
Have you a father and mother ? We have . 
Are they in the house ? They are gone to Capel Curig . 
And they left you alone ? They did . 
With the cat and the trin wire . 
Do your father and mother make wire work ? They do . 
They live by making it . 
What is the wire work for ? It is for hedges to fence the fields with . 
Do you help your father and mother ? We do as far as we can . 
We have lately had the cryd . 
Is there much cryd about here ? Plenty . 
Do you live well ? When we have bread we live well . 
If I give you a penny will you bring me some water ? We will , whether you give us a penny or not . 
Come , sister , let us go and fetch the gentleman water . 
They ran into the house and presently returned , the girl bearing a pan of water . 
After I had drunk I gave each of the children a penny , and received in return from each a diolch or thanks . 
Can either of you read ? Neither one nor the other . 
Can your father and mother read ? My father cannot , my mother can a little . 
Are there books in the house ? There are not . 
No Bible ? There is no book at all . 
Do you go to church ? We do not . 
To chapel ? In fine weather . 
Are you happy ? When there is bread in the house and no cryd we are all happy . 
Farewell to you , children . 
Farewell to you , gentleman ! exclaimed both . 
I have learnt something , said I , of Welsh cottage life and feeling from that poor sickly child . 
He was dressed in a blue coat and corduroy trowsers , and appeared to be of a condition a little above that of a labourer . 
I asked him if he was going far . 
About four miles , he replied . 
On the Bangor road ? Yes , said he down the Bangor road . 
I learned that he was a carpenter , and that he had been up the gully to see an acquaintance perhaps a sweetheart . 
We passed a lake on our right which he told me was called Llyn Ogwen , and that it abounded with fish . 
He entered two or three cottages by the side of the road , and each time he came out I heard him say I am with a Sais who can speak Cumraeg . 
When we had proceeded some way down the road my guide said . 
You shall now hear a wonderful echo , and shouting taw , taw , the rocks replied in a manner something like the baying of hounds . 
Hark to the dogs ! exclaimed my companion . 
This pass is called Nant yr ieuanc gwn , the pass of the young dogs , because when one shouts it answers with a noise resembling the crying of hounds . 
The sun was setting when we came to a small village at the bottom of the pass . 
I asked my companion its name . 
Ty yn y maes , he replied , adding as he stopped before a small cottage that he was going no farther , as he dwelt there . 
Is there a public house here ? said I. There is , he replied , you will find one a little farther up on the right hand . 
Come , and take some ale , said I. No , said he . 
Why not ? I demanded . 
I am a teetotaler , he replied . 
Indeed , said I , and having shaken him by the hand , thanked him for his company and bidding him farewell , went on . 
He was the first person I had ever met of the fraternity to which he belonged , who did not endeavour to make a parade of his abstinence and self denial . 
After drinking some tolerably good ale in the public house I again started . 
As I left the village a clock struck eight . 
The evening was delightfully cool but it soon became nearly dark . 
I passed under high rocks , by houses and by groves , in which nightingales were singing , to listen to whose entrancing melody I more than once stopped . 
On coming to a town , lighted up and thronged with people , I asked one of a group of young fellows its name . 
A scriptural name , said I. Is it ? said he well , if its name is scriptural the manners of its people are by no means so . 
A little way beyond the town a man came out of a cottage and walked beside me . 
He had a basket in his hand . 
I quickened my pace but he was a tremendous walker , and kept up with me . 
On we went side by side for more than a mile without speaking a word . 
At length , putting out my legs in genuine Barclay fashion , I got before him about ten yards , then turning round laughed and spoke to him in English . 
He too laughed and spoke , but in Welsh . 
We now went on like brothers , conversing , but always walking at great speed . 
I learned from him that he was a market gardener living at Bangor , and that Bangor was three miles off . 
On the stars shining out we began to talk about them . 
Pointing to Charles's Wain I said , A good star for travellers . 
Whereupon pointing to the North star , he said I forwyr da iawn a good star for mariners . 
We passed a large house on our left . 
Who lives there ? said I. Mr Smith , he replied . 
It is called Plas Newydd milltir genom etto we have yet another mile . 
In ten minutes we were at Bangor . 
I asked him where the Albion Hotel was . 
I will show it you , said he , and so he did . 
As we came under it I heard the voice of my wife , for she , standing on a balcony and distinguishing me by the lamplight , called out . 
I shook hands with the kind six mile an hour market gardener , and going into the inn found my wife and daughter , who rejoiced to see me . 
CHAPTER XXVII Bangor Edmund Price The Bridges Bookselling Future Pope Wild Irish Southey . 
BANGOR is seated on the spurs of certain high hills near the Menai , a strait separating Mona or Anglesey from Caernarvonshire . 
It was once a place of Druidical worship , of which fact , even without the testimony of history and tradition , the name which signifies upper circle would be sufficient evidence . 
There were in all three Bangors the one at Is Coed , another in Powis , and this Caernarvonshire Bangor , which was generally termed Bangor Vawr or Bangor the great . 
Two very remarkable men have at different periods conferred a kind of lustre upon Bangor by residing in it , Taliesin in the old , and Edmund Price in comparatively modern time . 
Both of them were poets . 
Taliesin flourished about the end of the fifth century , and for the sublimity of his verses was for many centuries called by his countrymen the Bardic King . 
Edmund Price flourished during the time of Elizabeth . 
He was archdeacon of Merionethshire , but occasionally resided at Bangor for the benefit of his health . 
Besides being one of the best Welsh poets of his age he was a man of extraordinary learning , possessing a thorough knowledge of no less than eight languages . 
To him the Cambrian Church is indebted for the version of the Psalms , which for the last two centuries it has been in the habit of using . 
After breakfast on the morning subsequent to my arrival , Henrietta and I roamed about the town , and then proceeded to view the bridges which lead over the strait to Anglesey . 
Have you been successful ? I have not , your hanner only three pence have I taken this blessed day . 
What do your books treat of ? Why , that is more than I can tell your hanner my trade is to sell the books not to read them . 
Would your hanner like to look at them ? Oh dear no , said I I have long been tired of books I have had enough of them . 
I daresay , your hanner from the state of your hanner's eyes I should say as much they look so weak picking up learning has ruined your hanner's sight . 
May I ask , said I , from what country you are ? Sure your hanner may and it is a civil answer you will get from Michael Sullivan . 
It is from ould Ireland I am , from Castlebar in the county Mayo . 
And how came you into Wales ? From the hope of bettering my condition , your hanner , and a foolish hope it was . 
You have not bettered your condition , then ? I have not , your hanner for I suffer quite as much hunger and thirst as ever I did in ould Ireland . 
Did you sell books in Ireland ? I did nat , yer hanner I made buttons and clothes that is I pieced them . 
I was several trades in ould Ireland , your hanner but none of them answering , I came over here . 
Where you commenced book selling ? said I. I did nat , your hanner . 
And it answers , I suppose , as badly as the others ? Just as badly , your hanner divil a bit better . 
I suppose you never beg ? Your hanner may say that I was always too proud to beg . 
It is begging I laves to the wife I have . 
Then you have a wife ? I have , your hanner and a daughter , too and a good wife and daughter they are . 
What would become of me without them I do not know . 
Have you been long in Wales ? Not very long , your hanner only about twenty years . 
Do you travel much about ? All over North Wales , your hanner to say nothing of the southern country . 
I suppose you speak Welsh ? Not a word , your hanner . 
The Welsh speak their language so fast , that divil a word could I ever contrive to pick up . 
Do you speak Irish ? I do , yer hanner that is when people spake to me in it . 
I spoke to him in Irish after a little discourse he said in English I see your hanner is a Munster man . 
Ah ! all the learned men comes from Munster . 
Father Toban comes from Munster . 
I have heard of him once or twice before , said I. I daresay your hanner has . 
After giving him the sixpence , which he received with a lazy thank your hanner , I got up , and followed by my daughter returned to the town . 
Henrietta went to the inn , and I again strolled about the town . 
Wild looked the men , yet wilder the women . 
The men were very lightly clad , and were all barefooted and bareheaded they carried stout sticks in their hands . 
The women were barefooted too , but had for the most part head dresses their garments consisted of blue cloaks and striped gingham gowns . 
Two ragged , red haired lads led a gaunt pony , drawing a creaking cart , stored with the same kind of articles of tin , which the women bore . 
Poorly clad , dusty and soiled as they were , they all walked with a free , independent , and almost graceful carriage . 
I am sorry to say they are , sir said the man , who from his accent was evidently an Irishman , for they are a disgrace to their country . 
I did not exactly think so . 
I thought that in many respects they were fine specimens of humanity . 
Every one of those wild fellows , said I to myself , is worth a dozen of the poor mean spirited book tramper I have lately been discoursing with . 
Beaumaris is at present a watering place . 
What a bay ! said I , for beauty it is superior to the far famed one of Naples . 
A proper place for the keels to start from , which , unguided by the compass , found their way over the mighty and mysterious Western Ocean . 
CHAPTER XXVIII Robert Lleiaf Prophetic Englyn The Second Sight Duncan Campbell Nial's Saga Family of Nial Gunnar The Avenger . 
AV i dir Mon , cr dwr Menai , Tros y traeth , ond aros trai . 
I will go to the land of Mona , notwithstanding the water of the Menai , across the sand , without waiting for the ebb . 
SO sang a bard about two hundred and forty years ago , who styled himself Robert Lleiaf , or the least of the Roberts . 
The couplet is a remarkable one . 
But since Telford's another bridge has been built over the Menai , which enables things to pass which the bard certainly never dreamt of . 
That Lleiaf was a man of remarkable foresight , cannot be denied , but there are no grounds which entitle him to be considered a possessor of the second sight . 
This is the englyn alluded to Codais , ymolchais yn Mon , cyn naw awr Ciniewa'n Nghaer Lleon , Pryd gosber yn y Werddon , Prydnawn wrth dan mawn yn Mon . 
The above englyn was printed in the Greal , , p . 
the language shows it to be a production of about the middle of the seventeenth century . 
And now a few words on the second sight , a few calm , quiet words , in which there is not the slightest wish to display either eccentricity or book learning . 
The events seen are sometimes of great importance , sometimes highly nonsensical and trivial sometimes they relate to the person who sees them , sometimes to other people . 
The second sight is confined to no particular country , and has at all times existed . 
The Jews were at one time particularly celebrated for the possession of the second sight they are no longer so . 
The power was at one time very common amongst the Icelanders and the inhabitants of the Hebrides , but it is so no longer . 
There are various books in existence in which the second sight is treated of or mentioned . 
It will not be amiss to observe here that the term second sight is of Lowland Scotch origin , and first made its appearance in print in Martin's book . 
Then there is the History of Duncan Campbell . 
Nothing is more usual than to see passengers in a common conveyance in Scotland discoursing with their fingers . 
Duncan at an early period gave indications of possessing the second sight . 
But by far the most remarkable book in existence , connected with the second sight , is one in the ancient Norse language entitled Nial's Saga . 
It was written in Iceland about the year , and contains the history of a certain Nial and his family , and likewise notices of various other people . 
This Nial was what was called a spamadr , that is , a spaeman or a person capable of foretelling events . 
The book is no romance , but a domestic history compiled from tradition about two hundred years after the events which it narrates had taken place . 
The mother of Nial was called Asgerdr she was the daughter of Ar , the Silent , the Lord of a district in Norway . 
She had come over to Iceland and settled down on land to the west of Markarfliot , between Oldustein and Selialandsmul . 
Holtathorir was her son , father of Thorlief Krak , from whom the Skogverjars are come , and likewise of Thorgrim the big and Skorargeir . 
Nial dwelt at Bergthorshval in Landey , but had another house at Thorolfell . 
Nial was very rich in property , and handsome to look at , but had no beard . 
His wife was called Bergthora she was the daughter of Skarphethin . 
She was a bold spirited woman who feared nobody , and was rather rough of temper . 
They had six children , three daughters and three sons , all of whom will be frequently mentioned in this saga . 
In the history many instances are given of Nial's skill in giving good advice and his power of seeing events before they happened . 
I do , said Nial . 
What is it ? said Gunnar . 
What people would think the least probable , replied Nial . 
He meant that he should die by fire . 
The kind generous Nial , who tried to get everybody out of difficulty , perished by fire . 
His sons by their violent conduct had incensed numerous people against them . 
CHAPTER XXIX Snowdon Caernarvon Maxen Wledig Moel y Cynghorion The Wyddfa Snow of Snowdon Rare Plant . 
ON the third morning after our arrival at Bangor we set out for Snowdon . 
in the ancient British language signifying an eyrie or breeding place of eagles . 
Snowdon is interesting on various accounts . 
It is interesting for its picturesque beauty . 
But it is from its connection with romance that Snowdon derives its chief interest . 
To view this mountain I and my little family set off in a caleche on the third morning after our arrival at Bangor . 
Our first stage was to Caernarvon . 
We reached Caernarvon , which is distant ten miles from Bangor , about eleven o'clock , and put up at an inn to refresh ourselves and the horses . 
It is a beautiful little town situated on the southern side of the Menai Strait at nearly its western extremity . 
It is called Caernarvon , because it is opposite Mona or Anglesey Caernarvon signifying the town or castle opposite Mona . 
Its principal feature is its grand old castle , fronting the north , and partly surrounded by the sea . 
The town Caernarvon , however , existed long before Edward's time , and was probably originally a Roman station . 
According to Welsh tradition it was built by Maxen Wledig or Maxentius , in honour of his wife Ellen who was born in the neighbourhood . 
After staying about an hour at Caernarvon we started for Llanberis , a few miles to the east . 
Llanberis is a small village situated in a valley , and takes its name from Peris , a British saint of the sixth century , son of Helig ab Glanog . 
The valley extends from west to east , having the great mountain of Snowdon on its south , and a range of immense hills on its northern side . 
Pointing with my finger to the head of Snowdon towering a long way from us in the direction of the east , I said to Henrietta Dacw Eryri , yonder is Snowdon . 
Let us try to get to the top . 
The Welsh have a proverb 'It is easy to say yonder is Snowdon but not so easy to ascend it . 
Therefore I would advise you to brace up your nerves and sinews for the attempt . 
The path was remarkably good , and for some way the ascent was anything but steep . 
Getting up we set about surmounting what remained of the ascent . 
The path was now winding and much more steep than it had hitherto been . 
The Wyddfa is about thirty feet in diameter and is surrounded on three sides by a low wall . 
Below on all sides are frightful precipices except on the side of the west . 
There we stood on the Wyddfa , in a cold bracing atmosphere , though the day was almost stiflingly hot in the regions from which we had ascended . 
Peaks and pinnacles and huge moels stood up here and there , about us and below us , partly in glorious light , partly in deep shade . 
'The brow of Snowdon shall be levelled with the ground , and the eddying waters shall murmur round it . 
'O Ri y'Ryri yw'r oera , o'r ar , Ar oror wir arwa O'r awyr a yr Eira , O'i ryw i roi rew a'r ia . 
'Cold is the snow on Snowdon's brow It makes the air so chill For cold , I trow , there is no snow Like that of Snowdon's hill . 
'A hill most chill is Snowdon's hill , And wintry is his brow From Snowdon's hill the breezes chill Can freeze the very snow . 
I am ashamed to say that I am an Englishman . 
Up this path it is indeed a task of difficulty to ascend to the Wyddfa , the one by which we mounted being comparatively easy . 
Nothing material occurred in our descent to Llanberis , where my wife was anxiously awaiting us . 
The ascent and descent occupied four hours . 
About ten o'clock at night we again found ourselves at Bangor . 
CHAPTER XXX Gronwy Owen Struggles of Genius The Stipend . 
Goronwy or Gronwy Owen , was born in the year , at a place called Llanfair Mathafarn Eithaf in Anglesey . 
He was the eldest of three children . 
His parents were peasants and so exceedingly poor that they were unable to send him to school . 
Even , however , when an unlettered child he gave indications that he was visited by the awen or muse . 
He accordingly , at his own expense sent him to school at Beaumaris , where he displayed a remarkable aptitude for the acquisition of learning . 
He subsequently sent him to Jesus College , Oxford , and supported him there whilst studying for the church . 
After completing his collegiate course he returned to Wales , where he was ordained a minister of the Church in the year . 
The next seven years of his life were a series of cruel disappointments and pecuniary embarrassments . 
The grand wish of his heart was to obtain a curacy and to settle down in Wales . 
Certainly a very reasonable wish . 
Truly in this world the full shall be crammed , and those who have little , shall have the little which they have taken away from them . 
From Donnington he removed to Walton in Cheshire , where he lost his daughter who was carried off by a fever . 
His next removal was to Northolt , a pleasant village in the neighbourhood of London . 
He held none of his curacies long , either losing them from the caprice of his principals , or being compelled to resign them from the parsimony which they practised towards him . 
In the year he was living in a garret in London vainly soliciting employment in his sacred calling , and undergoing with his family the greatest privations . 
Thither he went with his wife and family , and there he died sometime about the year . 
He was the last of the great poets of Cambria and , with the exception of Ab Gwilym , the greatest which she has produced . 
His poems which for a long time had circulated through Wales in manuscript were first printed in the year . 
All his pieces are excellent , but his masterwork is decidedly the Cywydd y Farn or Day of Judgment . 
CHAPTER XXXI Start for Anglesey The Post Master Asking Questions Mynydd Lydiart Mr Pritchard Way to Llanfair . 
WHEN I started from Bangor , to visit the birth place of Gronwy Owen , I by no means saw my way clearly before me . 
He did not seem to understand my question , for getting up he came towards me and asked what I wanted I repeated what I had said , whereupon his face became animated . 
Llanfair Mathafarn eithaf ! said he . 
Yes , I can tell you about it , and with good reason , for it lies not far from the place where I was born . 
The above was the substance of what he said , and nothing more , for he spoke in English somewhat broken . 
And how far is Llanfair from here ? said I. About ten miles , he replied . 
That's nothing , said I I was afraid it was much farther . 
But what may your business be at Llanfair ? said he , looking at me inquisitively . 
It is a strange place to go to , unless you go to buy hogs or cattle . 
Are you any relation of Gronwy Owen ? said the old man , looking at me more inquisitively than before , through a large pair of spectacles which he wore . 
None whatever , said I. Then why do you go to see his parish , it is a very poor one . 
From respect to his genius , said I I read his works long ago , and was delighted with them . 
Are you a Welshman ? said the old man . 
No , said I , I am no Welshman . 
Can you speak Welsh ? said he , addressing me in that language . 
A little , said I but not so well as I can read it . 
A flash of proud fire , methought , illumined his features as he pronounced these last words . 
Coming to the Menai Bridge I asked the man who took the penny toll at the entrance , the way to Pentraeth Coch . 
The country through which I passed seemed tolerably well cultivated , the hedge rows were very high , seeming to spring out of low stone walls . 
I met two or three gangs of reapers proceeding to their work with scythes in their hands . 
In about half an hour I passed by a farm house partly surrounded with walnut trees . 
Still the same high hedges on both sides of the road are these hedges relics of the sacrificial groves of Mona ? thought I to myself . 
Then I came to a wretched village through which I hurried at the rate of six miles an hour . 
I then saw a long , lofty , craggy hill on my right hand towards the east . 
What mountain is that ? said I to an urchin playing in the hot dust of the road . 
Mynydd Lydiart ! said the urchin , tossing up a handful of the hot dust into the air , part of which in descending fell into my eyes . 
I shortly afterwards passed by a handsome lodge . 
I then saw groves , mountain Lydiart forming a noble background . 
Who owns this wood ? said I in Welsh to two men who were limbing a felled tree by the road side . 
Lord Vivian , answered one , touching his hat . 
The gentleman is our countryman , said he to the other after I had passed . 
I was now descending the side of a pretty valley , and soon found myself at Pentraeth Coch . 
By this time I had verified in part the prediction of the old Welsh poet of the post office . 
I looked Mr Hugh Pritchard in the face and thought I had never seen a more honest countenance . 
Mr Pritchard meanwhile went into a kind of tap room , fronting the parlour , where I heard him talking in Welsh about pigs and cattle to some of his customers . 
And what did you do in Liverpool ? said I. My mother kept a little shop , said the girl , whilst my father followed various occupations . 
And how long have you been here ? said I. Since the death of my grandfather , said the girl , which happened about a year ago . 
When he died my father came here and took possession of his birth right . 
And which language do you prefer ? said I. I think I like English best , said the girl , it is the most useful language . 
Not in Anglesey , said I. Well , said the girl , it is the most genteel . 
I paid the money and the girl went out . 
I asked him whether I should have any difficulty in finding the way to Llanfair . 
What kind of place is it ? said I. A poor straggling village , said Mr Pritchard . 
Shall I be able to obtain a lodging there for the night ? said I. Scarcely one such as you would like , said Hugh . 
And where had I best pass the night ? I demanded . 
We can accommodate you comfortably here , said Mr Pritchard , provided you have no objection to come back . 
I told him that I should be only too happy , and forthwith departed , glad at heart that I had secured a comfortable lodging for the night . 
An aged man who looked like a beggar , but who did not beg of me , stood by . 
To what place does this water run ? said I in English . 
I know no Saxon , said he in trembling accents . 
I repeated my question in Welsh . 
You seem feeble ? said I. I am so , said he , for I am old . 
How old are you ? said I. Sixteen after sixty , said the old man with a sigh and I have nearly lost my sight and my hearing . 
Are you poor ? said I. Very , said the old man . 
I gave him a trifle which he accepted with thanks . 
Why is this sand called the red sand ? said I. I cannot tell you , said the old man , I wish I could , for you have been kind to me . 
Bidding him farewell I passed through the northern part of the village to the top of the hill . 
I walked a little way forward and then stopped , as I had done at the bridge in the dale , and looked to the east , over a low stone wall . 
Before me lay the sea or rather the northern entrance of the Menai Straits . 
Mountain Lidiart and the Northern Hill formed the headlands of a beautiful bay into which the waters of the Traeth dell , from which I had come , were discharged . 
A sandbank , probably covered with the sea at high tide , seemed to stretch from mountain Lidiart a considerable way towards the northern hill . 
The country which had hitherto been very beautiful , abounding with yellow corn fields , became sterile and rocky there were stone walls , but no hedges . 
Am I far from Llanfair ? said I to a child . 
You are in Llanfair , gentleman , said the child . 
A desolate place was Llanfair . 
The sea in the neighbourhood to the south , limekilns with their stifling smoke not far from me . 
Hogs came about me grunting and sniffing . 
Is this the neighbourhood of the birth place of Gronwy Owen ? said I to myself . 
No wonder that he was unfortunate through life , springing from such a region of wretchedness . 
Wretched as the region seemed , however , I soon found there were kindly hearts close by me . 
I got up and gave him the sele of the day in English . 
He was a man about thirty , rather tall than otherwise , with a very prepossessing countenance . 
He shook his head at my English . 
Are you a Welshman ? No , said I , an Englishman from the far east of Lloegr . 
And what brings you here ? said the man . 
A strange errand , I replied , to look at the birth place of a man who has long been dead . 
Do you come to seek for an inheritance ? said the man . 
No , said I. Besides the man whose birth place I came to see , died poor , leaving nothing behind him but immortality . 
Who was he ? said the miller . 
Did you ever hear a sound of Gronwy Owen ? said I. Frequently , said the miller I have frequently heard a sound of him . 
He was born close by in a house yonder , pointing to the south . 
I am glad to hear it , said I , for I have feared that his name would not be known here . 
Pray , gentleman , walk in ! said the miller we are going to have our afternoon's meal , and shall be rejoiced if you will join us . 
Yes , do , gentleman , said the miller's wife , for such the good woman was and many a welcome shall you have . 
I hesitated , and was about to excuse myself . 
They made me sit down at a table by the window , which was already laid for a meal . 
My eyes filled with tears for in the whole course of my life I had never experienced so much genuine hospitality . 
John Jones , he replied , Melinydd of Llanfair . 
Is the mill which you work your own property ? I inquired . 
No , he answered , I rent it of a person who lives close by . 
Can you read poetry ? said I. I can read the psalms and hymns that they sing at our chapel , he replied . 
Then you are not of the Church ? said I. I am not , said the miller I am a Methodist . 
I could not have afforded all that time , said he , to study the songs of Gronwy . 
However , it is well that some people should have time to study them . 
Has his house any particular name ? said I. It is called sometimes Ty Gronwy , said the miller but more frequently Tafarn Goch . 
It will take a wiser man than I , said he , to answer that question . 
The repast over I rose up , gave my host thanks , and said , I will now leave you , and hunt up things connected with Gronwy . 
And where will you find a lletty for night , gentleman ? said the miller's wife . 
This is a poor place , but if you will make use of our home you are welcome . 
I need not trouble you , said I , I return this night to Pentraeth Goch where I shall sleep . 
Well , said the miller , whilst you are at Llanfair I will accompany you about . 
Where shall we go to first ? Where is the church ? said I. I should like to see the church where Gronwy worshipped God as a boy . 
We directed our course to the mill , which lay some way down a declivity , towards the sea . 
Near the mill was a comfortable looking house , which my friend told me belonged to the proprietor of the mill . 
A rustic looking man stood in the mill yard , who he said was the proprietor . 
The honest miller went into the mill , and the rustic looking proprietor greeted me in Welsh , and asked me if I was come to buy hogs . 
The miller presently joined me , and we proceeded farther down the hill . 
Our way lay between stone walls , and sometimes over them . 
The land was moory and rocky , with nothing grand about it , and the miller described it well when he said it was tir gwael mean land . 
In about a quarter of an hour we came to the churchyard into which we got , the gate being locked , by clambering over the wall . 
The church stands low down the descent , not far distant from the sea . 
A little brook , called in the language of the country a frwd , washes its yard wall on the south . 
With respect to its interior I can say nothing , the door being locked . 
It is probably like the outside , simple enough . 
It seemed to be about two hundred and fifty years old , and to be kept in tolerable repair . 
On looking about I found the name of Owen in the inscription on the slate slab of a respectable looking modern tomb , on the north east side of the church . 
The inscription was as follows Er cof am JANE OWEN Gwraig Edward Owen , Monachlog Llanfair Mathafam eithaf , A fu farw Chwefror Yn Oed . 
I. E. To the memory of JANE OWEN Wife of Edward Owen , of the monastery of St Mary of farther Mathafarn , who died February , , aged fifty one . 
Whether the Edward Owen mentioned here was any relation to the great Gronwy , I had no opportunity of learning . 
I was now become ashamed of keeping the worthy fellow from his business , and begged him to return to his mill . 
We shook hands , the miller wished me luck , and betook himself to his mill , whilst I crossed the llamfa . 
I soon , however , repented having left the path by which I had come . 
I was presently in a maze of little fields with stone walls over which I had to clamber . 
At last I got into a lane with a stone wall on each side . 
A man came towards me and was about to pass me his look was averted , and he was evidently one of those who have no English . 
Is this the way to Llanfair ? said I to the man . 
The man made a kind of rush in order to get past me . 
Have you any Welsh ? I shouted as loud as I could bawl . 
The man stopped , and turning a dark sullen countenance half upon me said , Yes , I have Welsh . 
Town , town ! Oh , I have no English , said the man and off he started like a frighted bullock . 
Near me were two or three houses and part of the skeleton of one , on which some men , in the dress of masons , seemed to be occupied . 
Is his house far from here ? said I in Welsh . 
No , senor ! said the man , no esta muy lejos . 
I am a stranger here , friend , can anybody show me the way ? Si senor ! este mozo luego acompanara usted . 
Then turning to a lad of about eighteen , also dressed as a mason , he said in Welsh Show this gentleman instantly the way to Tafarn Goch . 
The lad flinging a hod down , which he had on his shoulder , instantly set off , making me a motion with his head to follow him . 
I did so , wondering what the man could mean by speaking to me in Spanish . 
He received the money with a gruff Diolch ! and instantly set off at a quick pace . 
Passing the child who stared at me , I walked to the back part of the house , which seemed to be a long mud cottage . 
After examining the back part I went in front , where I saw an aged woman with several children , one of whom was the child I had first seen . 
She smiled and asked me what I wanted . 
I said that I had come to see the house of Gronwy . 
She did not understand me , for shaking her head she said that she had no English , and was rather deaf . 
Raising my voice to a very high tone I said Ty Gronwy ! A gleam of intelligence flashed now in her eyes . 
Ty Gronwy , she said , ah ! I understand . 
There were three doors to the house she led me in by the midmost into a common cottage room , with no other ceiling , seemingly , than the roof . 
This she presently brought me in a teacup , I drank it , the children amounting to five standing a little way from me staring at me . 
I asked her if this was the house in which Gronwy was born . 
Through the man I asked her whether there was any one of the blood of Gronwy Owen living in the house . 
She pointed to the children and said they had all some of his blood . 
I asked in what relationship they stood to Gronwy . 
She said she could hardly tell , that tri priodas , three marriages stood between , and that the relationship was on the mother's side . 
I gathered from her that the children had lost their mother , that their name was Jones , and that their father was her son . 
I asked if the house in which they lived was their own she said no , that it belonged to a man who lived at some distance . 
I asked if the children were poor . 
I gave them each a trifle , and the poor old lady thanked me with tears in her eyes . 
I asked whether the children could read she said they all could , with the exception of the two youngest . 
I opened the book it was an English school book treating on all the sciences . 
The little maiden very demurely took the book and pencil , and placing the former on the table wrote as follows Ellen Jones yn perthyn o bell i gronow owen . 
That is , Ellen Jones belonging from afar to Gronwy Owen . 
When I saw the name of Ellen I had no doubt that the children were related to the illustrious Gronwy . 
says poor Gronwy in one of the most affecting elegies ever written . 
After a little farther conversation I bade the family farewell and left the house . 
After going down the road a hundred yards I turned back in order to ask permission to gather a leaf from one of the sycamores . 
Thrusting them into my coat pocket I thanked him kindly and departed . 
Coming to the half erected house , I again saw the man to whom I had addressed myself for information . 
I stopped , and speaking Spanish to him , asked how he had acquired the Spanish language . 
I have been in Chili , sir , said he in the same tongue , and in California , and in those places I learned Spanish . 
What did you go to Chili for ? said I I need not ask you on what account you went to California . 
I went there as a mariner , said the man I sailed out of Liverpool for Chili . 
Then how in the name of wonder , said I , speaking English , came you to answer me in Spanish ? I am an Englishman thorough bred . 
I can scarcely tell you how it was , sir , said the man scratching his head , but I thought I would speak to you in Spanish . 
I can't tell you how it was sir , said he , looking me very innocently in the face , but I was forced to speak Spanish to you . 
I daresay it was so , sir , said the man . 
I daresay it was just as you say . 
How did you fare in California ? said I. Very fairly indeed , sir , said the man . 
I made some money there , and brought it home , and with part of it I am building this house . 
The poor fellow looked pleased at what I said , more especially at that part of the sentence which touched upon his speaking Spanish well . 
Wishing him many years of health and happiness in the house he was building , I left him , and proceeded on my path towards Pentraeth Goch . 
After walking some way , I turned round in order to take a last look of the place which had so much interest for me . 
The mill may be seen from a considerable distance so may some of the scattered houses , and also the wood which surrounds the house of the illustrious Gronwy . 
Prosperity to Llanfair ! and may many a pilgrimage be made to it of the same character as my own . 
CHAPTER XXXIII Boxing Harry Mr Bos Black Robin Drovers Commercial Travellers . 
I ARRIVED at the hostelry of Mr Pritchard without meeting any adventure worthy of being marked down . 
This is no great place for meat , said Mrs Pritchard , that is fresh meat , for sometimes a fortnight passes without anything being killed in the neighbourhood . 
I am afraid at present there is not a bit of fresh meat to be had . 
What we can get you for dinner I do not know , unless you are willing to make shift with bacon and eggs . 
I suppose you are a commercial gent , said Mrs Pritchard . 
Having made arrangements for boxing Harry I went into the tap room , from which I had heard the voice of Mr Pritchard proceeding during the whole of my conversation with his wife . 
Here I found the worthy landlord seated with a single customer both were smoking . 
The customer instantly arrested my attention . 
His eyes were grey and looked rather as if they squinted his mouth was very wide , and when it opened displayed a set of strong , white , uneven teeth . 
In his left hand he held a heavy whale bone whip with a brass head . 
I sat down on a bench nearly opposite to him and the landlord . 
Well , said Mr Pritchard did you find your way to Llanfair ? Yes , said I. And did you execute the business satisfactorily which led you there ? said Mr Pritchard . 
Perfectly , said I. Well , what did you give a stone for your live pork ? said his companion glancing up at me , and speaking in a gruff voice . 
The truth is , said I , I went to Llanfair to see the birth place of a great man the cleverest Anglesey ever produced . 
Black Robin , said Mr Bos , and Gronow Owen , who the Devil were they ? I never heard of either . 
I wasn't talking of them , but of the clebberest man the world ever saw . 
I should hope I do , said Mr Bos . 
Oh , I wasn't at school at Blewmaris for six months for nothing and I haven't been in Northampton , and in every town in England , without learning something of history . 
Begging politely to be excused on the plea that I was just about to take tea , I asked him in what capacity he had travelled all over England . 
Oh , he does , said Mr Bos , well , the next time I meet him at Corwen I'll crack his head for saying so . 
Mal practices he had better look at his own , for he is a pig jobber too . 
Having dispatched my bacon and eggs , tea and ale , I fell into deep meditation . 
CHAPTER XXXIV Northampton Horse Breaking Snoring . 
Mr Pritchard and Mr Bos were still there smoking and drinking , but there was now a candle on the table before them , for night was fast coming on . 
After some time Mr Bos exclaimed I think , upon the whole , of all the places I have seen in England I like Northampton best . 
It's not the men but the women that make me speak in praise of Northampton . 
The men all are ill tempered , but the women quite the contrary . 
I never saw such a place for merched anladd as Northampton . 
I was a great favourite with them , and could tell you such tales . 
All of a sudden I heard a galloping down the road , and presently a mighty plunging , seemingly of a horse , before the door of the inn . 
How came you on the colt's back , Jenkins ? said Mr Pritchard , after we had all sat down and Jenkins had called for some cwrw . 
I did not know that he was broke in . 
I am breaking him in myself , said Jenkins speaking Welsh . 
I began with him to night . 
Do you mean to say , said I , that you have begun breaking him in by mounting his back ? I do , said the other . 
Then depend upon it , said I , that it will not be long before he will either break his neck or knees or he will break your neck or crown . 
You are not going the right way to work . 
Oh , myn Diawl ! said Jenkins , I know better . 
Time passed , night came on , and other guests came in . 
Mrs Pritchard forthwith taking a candle conducted me to a small room upstairs . 
There were two beds in it . 
Putting out the light I got into bed , but instantly found that the bed was not long enough by at least a foot . 
I shall pass an uncomfortable night , said I , for I never yet could sleep comfortably in a bed too short . 
However , as I am on my travels , I must endeavour to accommodate myself to circumstances . 
I am in a short bed , said I , and have snorers close by me I fear I shall have a sorry night of it . 
I might have lain ten minutes or a quarter of an hour when I suddenly started up in the bed broad awake . 
There was a great noise below the window of plunging and struggling interspersed with Welsh oaths . 
Then there was a sound as if of a heavy fall , and presently a groan . 
I shouldn't wonder , said I , if that fellow with the horse has verified my words , and has either broken his horse's neck or his own . 
However , if he has , he has no one to blame but himself . 
I gave him fair warning , and shall give myself no further trouble about the matter , but go to sleep , and so I did . 
CHAPTER XXXV Brilliant Morning Travelling with Edification A Good Clergyman Gybi . 
I AWOKE about six o'clock in the morning , having passed the night much better than I anticipated . 
The sun was shining bright and gloriously into the apartment . 
On looking into the other bed I found that my chums , the young farm labourers , had deserted it . 
They were probably already in the field busy at labour . 
After lying a little time longer I arose , dressed myself and went down . 
We then talked about farming and the crops , and at length got into a discourse about Liverpool . 
Have you travelled then much about England ? said I. No , he replied . 
When I have travelled it has chiefly been across the sea to foreign places . 
But what foreign places have you visited ? said I. I have visited , said Pritchard , Constantinople , Alexandria , and some other cities in the south latitudes . 
Ah , said Pritchard , but Mr Bos has travelled with edification it is a fine thing to have travelled when one has done so with edification , but I have not . 
There is a vast deal of difference between me and him he is considered the 'cutest man in these parts , and is much looked up to . 
You are really , said I , the most modest person I have ever known and the least addicted to envy . 
Let me see whether you have travelled without edification . 
But allow me to ask you in what capacity you went abroad ? As engineer to various steamships , said Pritchard . 
A director of the power of steam , said I , and an explorer of the wonders of Iscander's city willing to hold the candle to Mr Bos . 
I will tell you what , you are too good for this world , let us hope you will have your reward in the next . 
I breakfasted and asked for my bill the bill amounted to little or nothing half a crown I think for tea dinner , sundry jugs of ale , bed and breakfast . 
I defrayed it , and then inquired whether it would be possible for me to see the inside of the church . 
Oh yes , said Pritchard . 
I can let you in , for I am churchwarden and have the key . 
The church was a little edifice of some antiquity , with a little wing and without a spire it was situated amidst a grove of trees . 
As we stood with our hats off in the sacred edifice , I asked Pritchard if there were many Methodists in those parts . 
Not so many as there were , said Pritchard , they are rapidly decreasing , and indeed dissenters in general . 
The cause of their decrease is that a good clergyman has lately come here , who visits the sick and preaches Christ , and in fact does his duty . 
If all our clergymen were like him there would not be many dissenters in Ynis Fon . 
Outside the church , in the wall , I observed a tablet with the following inscription in English . 
Here lieth interred the body of Ann , wife of Robert Paston , who deceased the sixth day of October , Anno Domini . 
P. R. A. You seem struck with that writing ? said Pritchard , observing that I stood motionless , staring at the tablet . 
Perhaps she was the daughter of the Lewis family of Llan Dyfnant , said Pritchard that's an old family and a rich one . 
Perhaps he came from a distance and saw and married a daughter of the Lewis of Dyfnant more than one stranger has done so . 
Lord Vivian came from a distance and saw and married a daughter of the rich Lewis of Dyfnant . 
I shook honest Pritchard by the hand , thanked him for his kindness and wished him farewell , whereupon he gave mine a hearty squeeze , thanking me for my custom . 
He was called tawny because from his frequent walks in the blaze of the sun his face had become much sun burnt . 
This is a furiously hot day , and perhaps by the time I get to Holyhead , I may be so sun burnt as to be able to pass for Cybi himself . 
CHAPTER XXXVI Moelfre Owain Gwynedd Church of Penmynnydd The Rose of Mona . 
LEAVING Pentraeth Coch I retraced my way along the Bangor road till I came to the turning on the right . 
Dear me , said I Moelfre , Moelfre ! Is there anything wonderful in the name , sir ? said the old man smiling . 
There is nothing wonderful in the name , said I , which merely means the bald hill , but it brings wonderful recollections to my mind . 
Dear me , said the old reaper and whom may it have been between ? the French and English , I suppose . 
No , said I it was fought between one of your Welsh kings , the great Owain Gwynedd , and certain northern and Irish enemies of his . 
Well , sir , said the old man , I never before heard anything about it , indeed I don't trouble my head with histories , unless they be Bible histories . 
Are you a Churchman ? said I. No , said the old man , shortly I am a Methodist . 
I belong to the Church , said I. So I should have guessed , sir , by your being so well acquainted with pennillion and histories . 
The Lord forbid , sir , said the old man , that I should be so uncharitable ! If your honour chooses to give me sixpence , I will receive it willingly . 
Thank your honour ! Well , I have often said there is a great deal of good in the Church of England . 
I reached Penmynnydd , a small village consisting of a few white houses and a mill . 
The meaning of Penmynnydd is literally the top of a hill . 
The village does not stand on a hill , but the church which is at some distance , stands on one , or rather on a hillock . 
And it is probable from the circumstance of the church standing on a hillock , that the parish derives its name . 
Towards the church after a slight glance at the village , I proceeded with hasty steps , and was soon at the foot of the hillock . 
A house , that of the clergyman , stands near the church , on the top of the hill . 
I opened a gate , and entered a lane which seemed to lead up to the church . 
As I was passing some low buildings , probably offices pertaining to the house , a head was thrust from a doorway , which stared at me . 
It was a strange hirsute head , and probably looked more strange and hirsute than it naturally was , owing to its having a hairy cap upon it . 
He looked the beau ideal of a servant of all work . 
Can I see the church ? said I. Ah , you want to see the church , said honest Scrub . 
Yes , sar ! you shall see the church . 
You go up road there past church come to house , knock at door say what you want and nice little girl show you church . 
Following the suggestions of the man of the hairy cap I went round the church and knocked at the door of the house , a handsome parsonage . 
A nice little servant girl presently made her appearance at the door , of whom I inquired whether I could see the church . 
Certainly , sir , said she I will go for the key and accompany you . 
She fetched the key and away we went to the church . 
The girl , unlocking the door , ushered me into the interior . 
Which is the tomb of Tudor ? said I to the pretty damsel . 
There it is , sir , said she , pointing to the north side of the church there is the tomb of Owen Tudor . 
The male figure lay next the wall . 
The tomb is doubtless a tomb of one of the Tudor race , and of a gentle partner of his , but not of the Rose of Mona and Catherine of France . 
Then saying something in Welsh to the pretty damsel , at which she started , and putting something into her hand , at which she curtseyed , I hurried out of the church . 
I REGAINED the high road by a short cut , which I discovered , across a field . 
I proceeded rapidly along for some time . 
So no wonder I was excited . 
On I went reciting bardic snatches connected with Anglesey . 
That they left legitimate successors who can doubt ? for Anglesey is never to be without bards . 
Have we not the words , not of Robin the Black , but Huw the Red to that effect ? 'Brodir , gnawd ynddi prydydd Heb ganu ni bu ni bydd . 
That is a hospitable country , in which a poet is a thing of course . 
It has never been and will never be without song . 
Here I became silent , and presently arrived at the side of a little dell or ravine , down which the road led , from east to west . 
The northern and southern sides of this dell were precipitous . 
Beneath the southern one stood a small cottage . 
They saluted me I returned their salutation , and then we all three stood still , looking at one another . 
There was a peculiar gravity upon it . 
I believe you are an Englishman , sir , said the man in grey , speaking English , I will therefore take the liberty of answering your question in the English tongue . 
The name of this place is Dyffryn Gaint . 
I am a native of the small island in which we are . 
Small , said I , but famous , particularly for producing illustrious men . 
That's very true indeed , sir , said the man in grey , drawing himself up it is particularly famous for producing illustrious men . 
There was Owen Tudor ? said I. Very true , said the man in grey , his tomb is in the church a little way from hence . 
Then , said I , there was Gronwy Owen , one of the greatest bards that ever lived . 
Out of reverence to his genius I went yesterday to see the place of his birth . 
Sir , said the man in grey , I should be sorry to leave you without enjoying your conversation at some length . 
The man in grey called for a jug of ale , which was presently placed before us along with three glasses . 
A great genius , I admit , said the man in grey , but pardon me , not exactly the greatest Ynis Fon has produced . 
The race of the bards is not quite extinct in the island , sir . 
I could name one or two however , I leave others to do so but I assure you the race of bards is not quite extinct here . 
You would , sir , would you ? said the man in grey , lifting his head on high , and curling his upper lip . 
Tut , tut , hold your tongue , said the man in grey . 
Hold my tongue , myn Diawl , not I I speak the truth , then filling his glass he emptied it exclaiming , I'll not hold , my tongue . 
The greatest prydydd in the whole world . 
Then I have the honour to be seated with a bard of Anglesey ? said I , addressing the man in grey . 
Tut , tut , said he of the grey suit . 
The greatest prydydd in the whole world , iterated he of the bulged shoe , with a slight hiccup , as he again filled his glass . 
Then , said I , I am truly fortunate . 
The greatest prydydd , said the latter , the greatest prydydd that and leaving his sentence incomplete he drank off the ale which he had poured into his glass . 
Well , said I , I cannot sufficiently congratulate myself for having met an Anglesey bard no doubt a graduate one . 
Anglesey , was always famous for graduate bards , for what says Black Robin ? 'Though Arvon graduate bards can boast , Yet more canst thou , O Anglesey . 
I suppose by graduate bard you mean one who has gained the chair at an eisteddfod ? said the man in grey . 
No , I have never gained the silver chair I have never had an opportunity . 
I have been kept out of the eisteddfodau . 
There is such a thing as envy , sir but there is one comfort , that envy will not always prevail . 
All of a sudden they see their supposed victim on a pinnacle far above their reach . 
Then there is weeping , and gnashing of teeth with a vengeance , and the long , melancholy howl . 
Sir , said the man in grey , I am delighted to hear you . 
Give me your hand , your honourable hand . 
Landlord , bring this moment another jug of ale ! The greatest prydydd , stuttered he of bulged shoe the greatest prydydd Oh Tut , tut , said the man in grey . 
I speak the truth and care for no one , said he of the tattered hat . 
I say the greatest prydydd . 
I suppose you are waiting to be paid , said I what is your demand ? Sixpence for this jug , and sixpence for the other , said the landlord . 
I invited you in here to drink , and now you would pay for the liquor which I ordered . 
You English are free with your money , but you are sometimes free with it at the expense of people's feelings . 
I am a Welshman , and I know Englishmen consider all Welshmen hogs . 
But we are not hogs , mind you ! for we have little feelings which hogs have not . 
Moreover , I would have you know that we have money , though perhaps not so much as the Saxon . 
I do not know why thou didst stay after thou hadst put down the ale . 
Thou didst know enough of me to know that thou didst run no risk of not being paid . 
But , said I , after the landlord had departed , I must insist on being my share . 
He is no true poet , who would keep his face from the world . 
But , said I , the sun frequently hides his head from the world , behind a cloud . 
Not so , said the man in grey . 
The sun does not hide his face , it is the cloud that hides it . 
The sun is always glad enough to be seen , and so is the poet . 
If both are occasionally hid , trust me it is no fault of theirs . 
Bear that in mind and now pray take up your money . 
The man in grey now filled my glass , his own , and that of his companion . 
The latter emptied his in a minute , not forgetting first to say the best prydydd in all the world ! the man in grey was also not slow to empty his own . 
The jug now passed rapidly between my two friends , for the poet seemed determined to have his full share of the beverage . 
I allowed the ale in my glass to remain untasted , and began to talk about the bards , and to quote from their works . 
I soon found that the man in grey knew quite as much of the old bards and their works as myself . 
In one instance he convicted me of a mistake . 
Sion Tudor , I replied . 
There you are wrong , said the man in grey his name was not Sion Tudor but Robert Vychan , in English , Little Bob . 
Sion Tudor wrote an englyn on the Skerries whirlpool in the Menai but it was Little Bob who wrote the stanza in which the future bridge over the Menai is hinted at . 
You are right , said I , you are right . 
Well , I am glad that all song and learning are not dead in Ynis Fon . 
Dead , said the man in grey , whose features began to be rather flushed , they are neither dead nor ever will be . 
When I say they all live in Anglesey , perhaps I am not quite accurate , for one of the dozen does not exactly live in Anglesey , but just over the bridge . 
He is an elderly man , but his awen , I assure you , is as young and vigorous as ever . 
If he is the person I allude to , said I , I am doubly fortunate , for I have seen two bards of Anglesey . 
I suppose you follow some pursuit besides bardism ? said I I suppose you farm ? I do not farm , said the man in grey , I keep an inn . 
Keep an inn ? said I. Yes , said the man in grey . 
It is that belief which makes me tolerably satisfied with my position and prevents me from asking Sir Richard to give me a farm instead of an inn . 
I suppose , said I , that Sir Richard is your landlord ? He is , said the man in grey , and a right noble landlord too . 
I have often said that if I were not what I am , I should wish to be Sir Richard . 
About a month ago I was seated in an upper apartment in a fit of rapture . 
All of a sudden my wife came running up , and told me that Sir Richard was below , and wanted to speak to me . 
'Tell him to walk up , said I. 'Are you mad ? said my wife . 
'Don't you know who Sir Richard is ? 'I do , said I , 'a baronet is a baronet , but a bard is a bard . 
Tell him to walk up . 
Well , my wife went and told Sir Richard that I was writing , and could not come down , and that she hoped he would not object to walk up . 
'Certainly not certainly not , said Sir Richard . 
'I shall be only too happy to ascend to a genius on his hill . 
You may be proud of such a husband , Mrs W. And here it will be as well to tell you that my name is W. J. W. of . 
Sir Richard then came up , and I received him with gravity and politeness . 
Well , Sir Richard smiled and sat down , and begged me not to hurry myself , for that he could wait . 
So I finished the pennill , deliberately , mind you , for I did not forget who I was , and then turning to Sir Richard entered upon business with him . 
I suppose Sir Richard is a very good tempered man ? said I. I don't know , said the man in grey . 
Were they in Welsh or English ? In Welsh , of course . 
Well , then the man had some excuse for disregarding them because you know the TIMES is written in English . 
Oh , you mean the London TIMES , said the man in grey . 
Pooh ! I did not allude to that trumpery journal , but the Liverpool TIMES , the Amserau . 
I sent some pennillion to the editor for insertion and he did not insert them . 
Peth a clwir cenfigen yn Saesneg ? We call cenfigen in English envy , said I but as I told you before , envy will not always prevail . 
You cannot imagine how pleased I am with your company , said the man in grey . 
Landlord , landlord ! The greatest prydydd , said the man of the tattered hat , the greatest prydydd . 
Pray don't order any more on my account , said I , as you see my glass is still full . 
I am about to start for Caer Gybi . 
Pray , where are you bound for ? For Bangor , said the man in grey . 
I am going to the market . 
Then I would advise you to lose no time , said I , or you will infallibly be too late it must now be one o'clock . 
There is no market to day , said the man in grey , the market is to morrow , which is Saturday . 
I feel myself so happy here that I shall not stir till the evening . 
Now pray stay with me and my friend till then . 
I cannot , said I , if I stay longer here I shall never reach Caer Gybi to night . 
Indeed it is she who chiefly conducts the business of the inn . 
And is your friend going to market too ? said I. My friend goes with me to assist me and bear me company . 
If I buy a pig he will help me to drive it home if a horse , he will get up upon its back behind me . 
I might perhaps do without him , but I enjoy his company highly . 
He is sometimes rather indiscreet , but I do assure you he is exceedingly clever . 
The greatest prydydd , said the man of the bulged shoe , the greatest prydydd in the world . 
Oh , I have no doubt of his cleverness , said I , from what I have observed of him . 
Now before I go allow me to pay for your next jug of ale . 
I will do no such thing , said the man in grey . 
No farthing do you pay here for me or my friend either . 
But I will tell you what you may do . 
I am , as I have told you , an inn keeper as well as a bard . 
Landlord , some more ale . 
CHAPTER XXXVIII Inn at L The Handmaid The Decanter Religious Gentleman Truly Distressing Sententiousness Way to Pay Bills . 
The country was pretty , with here and there a hill , a harvest field , a clump of trees or a grove . 
I soon reached L , a small but neat town . 
Where is the Arms ? said I to a man whom I met . 
Yonder , sir , yonder , said he , pointing to a magnificent structure on the left . 
I went in and found myself in a spacious hall . 
A good looking young woman in a white dress with a profusion of pink ribbons confronted me with a curtsey . 
A pint and a chop ! I exclaimed , with a flourish of my hand and at the top of my voice . 
I think you asked for a pint and a chop , sir ? said the damsel , motioning me to sit down at one of the tables . 
I did , said I , as I sat down , let them be brought with all convenient speed , for I am in something of a hurry . 
I continued musing in this manner until the handmaid made her appearance with a tray , on which were covers and a decanter , which she placed before me . 
What is that ? said I , pointing to a decanter . 
Only a pint of sherry , sir , said she of the white dress and ribbons . 
Dear me , said I , I ordered no sherry , I wanted some ale a pint of ale . 
Thank you , sir , said the handmaid . 
Are you his daughter ? said I. Oh no , sir , said the handmaid reverently only his waiter . 
You may be proud to wait on him , said I. I am , sir , said the handmaid , casting down her eyes . 
I suppose he is much respected in the neighbourhood ? said I. Very much so , sir , said the damsel , especially amidst the connection . 
The connection , said I. Ah , I see , he has extensive consanguinity , most Welsh have . 
But , I continued , there is such a thing as envy in the world , and there are a great many malicious people in the world , who speak against him . 
A great many , sir , but we take what they say from whence it comes . 
You do quite right , said I. Has your master written any poetry lately ? Sir ! said the damsel staring at me . 
Any poetry , said I , any pennillion ? No , sir , said the damsel my master is a respectable man , and would scorn to do anything of the kind . 
Well , said I , he told me he did within the last two hours . 
I met him at Dyffrin Gaint , along with another man , and he took me into the public house , where we had a deal of discourse . 
You met my master at Dyffryn Gaint ? said the damsel . 
Mistake , said I. Isn't this the Arms ? Yes , sir , it is . 
Come , come , said I , I will not hear the productions of a man who treated me with ale , spoken of with disrespect . 
I am afraid that you are one of his envious maligners , of which he gave me to understand that he had a great many . 
I tell you that it was out of respect to that man that I came to this house . 
Sir , there's your pint and chop , and if you wish for anything else you can ring . 
Envious , indeed , of such Marry come up ! and with a toss of her head , higher than any she had hitherto given , she bounced out of the room . 
Sententiousness is a fine thing sometimes , but not always . 
Yet I had merely echoed the poet's words in calling for a pint and chop , so after all the poet was to blame for both mistakes . 
But perhaps he meant that I should drink sherry at his house , and when he advised me to call for a pint , he meant a pint of sherry . 
But what was now to be done ? Why , clearly make the best of the matter , eat the chop and leave the sherry . 
So I commenced eating the chop , which was by this time nearly cold . 
After eating a few morsels I looked at the sherry I may as well take a glass , said I. So with a wry face I poured myself out a glass . 
What detestable stuff ! said I , after I had drunk it . 
However , as I shall have to pay for it I may as well go through with it . 
So I poured myself out another glass , and by the time I had finished the chop I had finished the sherry also . 
And now what was I to do next ? Why , my best advice seemed to be to pay my bill and depart . 
But I had promised the poet to patronize his house , and had by mistake ordered and despatched a pint and chop in a house which was not the poet's . 
I had performed my promise , at least in intention . 
Perfectly satisfied with the conclusion I had come to , I rang the bell . 
The bill ? said I to the handmaid . 
Here it is ! said she , placing a strip of paper in my hand . 
CHAPTER XXXIX Oats and Methodism The Little Girl Ty Gwyn Bird of the Roof Purest English Railroads Inconsistency The Boots . 
IT might be about four in the afternoon when I left L bound for Pen Caer Gybi , or Holyhead , seventeen miles distant . 
I reached the top of the hill on the west of the little town , and then walked briskly forward . 
On the top of a long ascent stood a house by the roadside . 
I went to the door and knocked no answer Oes neb yn y ty ? said I. Oes ! said an infantine voice . 
I opened the door and saw a little girl . 
Have you any water ? said I. No , said the child , but I have this , and she brought me some butter milk in a basin . 
I just tasted it , gave the child a penny and blessed her . 
Oes genoch tad ? No , said she but I have a mam . 
Tad in mam blessed sounds in all languages expressing the same blessed things . 
After walking for some hours I saw a tall blue hill in the far distance before me . 
What is the name of that hill ? said I to a woman whom I met . 
Pen Caer Gybi , she replied . 
Soon after I came to a village near to a rocky gully . 
On inquiring the name of the village , I was told it was Llan yr Afon , or the church of the river . 
Quickening my pace , I soon came parallel with the house , which as I drew nigh , ceased to look like a genteel house , and exhibited an appearance of great desolation . 
It was a white , or rather grey structure of some antiquity . 
It was evidently used as a farm house , for there was a yard adjoining to it , in which were stacks and agricultural implements . 
Observing two men in the yard , I went in . 
They were respectable , farm looking men , between forty and fifty one had on a coat and hat , the other a cap and jacket . 
Good evening , I said in Welsh . 
Good evening , they replied in the same language , looking inquiringly at me . 
What is the name of this place ? said I. It is called Ty gwyn , said the man of the hat . 
On account of its colour , I suppose ? said I. Just so , said the man of the hat . 
It looks old , said I. And it is old , he replied . 
In the time of the Papists it was one of their chapels . 
Does it belong to you ? I demanded . 
Oh no , it belongs to one Mr Sparrow from Liverpool . 
I am his bailiff , and this man is a carpenter who is here doing a job for him . 
Who can he be ? I am sure I don't know , said the other . 
I think I heard you mention the word Llydaw ? said I , to the man of the hat . 
Ah , said the man of the hat , speaking Welsh , I was right after all oh , I could have sworn you were Llydaweg . 
Of course not , said he of the hat . 
You call a sparrow in your Welsh a bird of the roof , do you not ? said I. We do , said he of the hat . 
You speak Welsh very well considering you were not born in Wales . 
It is really surprising that the men of Llydaw should speak the iaith so pure as they do . 
The Welsh when they went over there , said I , took effectual means that their descendants should speak good Welsh , if all tales be true . 
What means ? said he of the hat . 
What do you think of that ? Why , that it was a cute trick , said he of the hat . 
A more clever trick I never heard , said the man of the cap . 
Have you any memorials in the neighbourhood of the old Welsh ? said I. What do you mean ? said the man of the hat . 
Any altars of the Druids ? said I any stone tables ? None , said the man of the hat . 
What may those stones be ? said I , pointing to the stones which had struck my attention . 
Mere common rocks , said the man . 
May I go and examine them ? said I. Oh yes ! said he of the hat , and we will go with you . 
Are there many altars of the Druids in Llydaw ? said the man of the hat . 
Plenty , said I , but those altars are older than the time of the Welsh colonists , and were erected by the old Gauls . 
Well , said the man of the cap , I am glad I have seen the man of Llydaw . 
Whom do you call a man of Llydaw ? said I. Whom but yourself ? said he of the hat . 
I am not a man of Llydaw , said I in English , but Norfolk , where the people eat the best dumplings in the world , and speak the purest English . 
Now a thousand thanks for your civility . 
I would have some more chat with you , but night is coming on , and I am bound to Holyhead . 
Then leaving the men staring after me , I bent my steps towards Holyhead . 
I passed by a place called Llan something , standing lonely on its hill . 
The country round looked sad and desolate . 
It is true night had come on when I saw it . 
The voices of children sounded sweetly at a distance across the wild champaign on my left . 
It grew darker and darker . 
On I hurried along the road at last I came to lone , lordly groves . 
On my right was an open gate and a lodge . 
I went up to the lodge . 
I shortly passed through a large village , or rather town , the name of which I did not learn . 
I then went on for a mile or two , and saw a red light at some distance . 
The road led nearly up to it , and then diverged towards the north . 
Leaving the road I made towards the light by a lane , and soon came to a railroad station . 
You won't have long to wait , sir , said a man , the train to Holyhead will be here presently . 
How far is it to Holyhead ? said I. Two miles , sir , and the fare is only sixpence . 
I despise railroads , said I , and those who travel by them , and without waiting for an answer returned to the road . 
I seemed to be its only traveller a wall extended for a long , long way on my left . 
At length I came to a turnpike . 
I felt desolate and wished to speak to somebody . 
I tapped at the window , at which there was a light a woman opened it . 
How far to Holyhead ? said I in English . 
Dim Saesneg , said the woman . 
I repeated my question in Welsh . 
Two miles , said she . 
Still two miles to Holyhead by the road , thought I. Nos da , said I to the woman and sped along . 
At length I saw water on my right , seemingly a kind of bay , and presently a melancholy ship . 
I doubled my pace , which was before tolerably quick , and soon saw a noble looking edifice on my left , brilliantly lighted up . 
What a capital inn that would make , said I , looking at it wistfully , as I passed it . 
Presently I found myself in the midst of a poor , dull , ill lighted town . 
Where is the inn ? said I to a man . 
The inn , sir you have passed it . 
The inn is yonder , he continued , pointing towards the noble looking edifice . 
What , is that the inn ? said I. Yes , sir , the railroad hotel and a first rate hotel it is . 
And are there no other inns ? Yes , but they are all poor places . 
No gent puts up at them all the gents by the railroad put up at the railroad hotel . 
Send boots ! I roared to the waiter , as I flung myself down in an arm chair in a magnificent coffee room . 
What the deuce are you staring at ? send boots can't you , and ask what I can have for dinner . 
Yes , sir , said the waiter , and with a low bow departed . 
These boots are rather dusty , said the boots , a grey haired , venerable looking man , after he had taken off my thick , solid , square toed boots . 
I suppose you came walking from the railroad ? Confound the railroad ! said I. I came walking from Bangor . 
I would have you know that I have money in my pocket , and can afford to walk . 
I am fond of the beauties of nature now it is impossible to see much of the beauties of nature unless you walk . 
I am likewise fond of poetry , and take especial delight in inspecting the birth places and haunts of poets . 
It is because I am fond of poetry , poets and their haunts , that I am come to Anglesey . 
Anglesey does not abound in the beauties of nature , but there never was such a place for poets you meet a poet , or the birth place of a poet , everywhere . 
Did your honour ever hear of Gronwy Owen ? said the old man . 
I have , I replied , and yesterday I visited his birth place so you have heard of Gronwy Owen ? Heard of him , your honour yes , and read his works . 
That 'Cowydd y Farn' of his is a wonderful poem . 
I am rejoiced to see your honour in our house , said boots I never saw an English gentleman before who knew so much about Welsh poetry , nor a Welsh one either . 
Then tucking the dusty boots under his arm , the old man with a low congee , and a Good night , your honour ! shuffled out of the room . 
CHAPTER XL Caer Gyby Lewis Morris Noble Character . 
I DINED or rather supped well at the Railroad Inn I beg its pardon , Hotel , for the word Inn at the present day is decidedly vulgar . 
Caer Gybi or Cybi's town is situated on the southern side of a bay on the north western side of Anglesey . 
Close to it on the south west is a very high headland called in Welsh Pen Caer Gybi , or the head of Cybi's city , and in English Holy Head . 
It is called Cybi's town from one Cybi , who about the year built a college here to which youths noble and ignoble resorted from far and near . 
He was a native of Dyfed or Pembrokeshire , and was a friend and for a long time a fellow labourer of Saint David . 
So much for Cybi , and his town ! And now something about one whose memory haunted me much more than that of Cybi during my stay at Holyhead . 
Lewis Morris was born at a place called Tref y Beirdd , in Anglesey , in the year . 
Anglesey , or Mona , has given birth to many illustrious men , but few , upon the whole , entitled to more honourable mention than himself . 
Yet that saying , eulogistic as it is , is far from expressing all the vast powers and acquirements of Lewis Morris . 
He was likewise well acquainted with Hebrew , Greek and Latin , had studied Anglo Saxon with some success , and was a writer of bold and vigorous English . 
He was besides a good general antiquary , and for knowledge of ancient Welsh customs , traditions , and superstitions , had no equal . 
Yet all has not been said which can be uttered in his praise he had qualities of mind which entitled him to higher esteem than any accomplishment connected with intellect or skill . 
Amongst these were his noble generosity and sacrifice of self for the benefit of others . 
CHAPTER XLI The Pier Irish Reapers Wild Irish Face Father Toban The Herd of Swine Latin Blessing . 
THE day was as hot as the preceding one . 
I walked slowly towards the west , and presently found myself upon a pier , or breakwater , at the mouth of the harbour . 
A large steamer lay at a little distance within the pier . 
There were fishing boats on both sides , the greater number on the outer side , which lies towards the hill of Holy Head . 
The whole party had shillealahs either in their hands or by their sides . 
I went to the extremity of the pier , where was a little lighthouse , and then turned back . 
As I again drew near the Irish , I heard a hubbub and observed a great commotion amongst them . 
All , whether those whom I had seen sitting , or those whom I had seen reclining , had got , or were getting on their legs . 
As I passed them they were all standing up , and their eyes were fixed upon me with a strange kind of expression , partly of wonder , methought , partly of respect . 
Yes , 'tis he , sure enough , I heard one whisper . 
On I went , and at about thirty yards from the last I stopped , turned round and leaned against the wall . 
All the Irish were looking at me presently they formed into knots and began to discourse very eagerly in Irish , though in an undertone . 
At length I observed a fellow going from one knot to the other , exchanging a few words with each . 
He stopped within a yard of me and took off his hat . 
He was an athletic fellow of about twenty eight , dressed in brown frieze . 
His features were swarthy , and his eyes black in every lineament of his countenance was a jumble of savagery and roguishness . 
I never saw a more genuine wild Irish face there he stood looking at me full in the face , his hat in one hand and his shillealah in the other . 
Well , what do you want ? said I , after we had stared at each other about half a minute . 
Sure , I'm just come on the part of the boys and myself to beg a bit of a favour of your reverence . 
Reverence , said I , what do you mean by styling me reverence ? Och sure , because to be styled your reverence is the right of your reverence . 
Pray what do you take me for ? Och sure , we knows your reverence very well . 
Well , who am I ? Och , why Father Toban to be sure . 
And who knows me to be Father Toban ? Och , a boy here knows your reverence to be Father Toban . 
Where is that boy ? Here he stands , your reverence . 
Are you that boy ? I am , your reverence . 
And you told the rest that I was Father Toban ? I did , your reverence . 
And you know me to be Father Toban ? I do , your reverence . 
How do you know me to be Father Toban ? Och , why because many's the good time that I have heard your reverence , Father Toban , say mass . 
You want me to bless you ? We do , your reverence , we want you to spit out a little bit of a blessing upon us before we goes on board . 
And suppose I were to tell you that I am not Father Toban ? Och , your reverence , will never think of doing that . 
Would you believe me if I did ? We would not , your reverence . 
If I were to swear that I am not Father Toban ? We would not , your reverence . 
On the evangiles ? We would not , your reverence . 
On the Cross ? We would not , your reverence . 
And suppose I were to refuse to give you a blessing ? Och , your reverence will never refuse to bless the poor boys . 
You would break my head ? We would , your reverence . 
Kill me ? We would , your reverence . 
You would really put me to death ? We would not , your reverence . 
And what's the difference between killing and putting to death ? Och , sure there's all the difference in the world . 
And you are determined on having a blessing ? We are , your reverence . 
By hook or by crook ? By crook or by hook , your reverence . 
Before I bless you , will you answer me a question or two ? I will , your reverence . 
Are you not a set of great big blackguards ? We are , your reverence . 
Without one good quality ? We are , your reverence . 
And knowing and confessing all this , you have the cheek to come and ask me for a blessing ? We have , your reverence . 
Well , how shall I give the blessing ? Och , sure your reverence knows very well how to give it . 
Shall I give it in Irish ? Och , no , your reverence a blessing in Irish is no blessing at all . 
We will , your reverence stay one moment whilst I whisper to the boys that your reverence is about to bestow your blessing upon us . 
Your reverence shall be obeyed in all things , said the fellow , getting up . 
Divil a bit farther trouble shall he have from us ! exclaimed many a voice , as the rest of the party arose from their knees . 
CHAPTER XLII Gage of Suffolk Fellow in a Turban Town of Holyhead Father Boots An Expedition Holy Head and Finisterrae Gryffith ab Cynan The Fairies' Well . 
Strolling about the market place I came in contact with a fellow dressed in a turban and dirty blue linen robes and trowsers . 
He bore a bundle of papers in his hand , one of which he offered to me . 
I asked him who he was . 
He had a dark , cunning , roguish countenance , with small eyes , and had all the appearance of a Jew . 
At last I asked him what religion he was of . 
The Christian , he replied . 
Have you ever been of the Jewish ? said I. He returned no answer save by a grin . 
I took the paper , gave him a penny , and then walked away . 
I strolled forward , encountering more carts and more heaps of greengages presently I turned to the right by a street , which led some way up the hill . 
The houses were tolerably large and all white . 
So I returned and called for ale . 
The ale which was brought was not ale which I am particularly fond of . 
Before coming , however , to any resolution , I determined to ask the advice of my friend the boots on the subject . 
But has your honour ascended the Head ? demanded Father Boots . 
No , said I I have not . 
Then , said he , I will soon find your honour ways and means to spend the time agreeably till the starting of the train . 
Your honour shall ascend the Head under the guidance of my nephew , a nice intelligent lad , your honour , and always glad to earn a shilling or two . 
By the time your honour has seen all the wonders of the Head and returned , it will be five o'clock . 
I was struck with the happy manner in which he had removed the difficulty in question , and informed him that I was determined to follow his advice . 
He hurried away , and presently returned with his nephew , to whom I offered half a crown provided he would show me all about Pen Caer Gyby . 
He accepted my offer with evident satisfaction , and we lost no time in setting out upon our expedition . 
We had to pass over a great deal of broken ground , sometimes ascending , sometimes descending , before we found ourselves upon the side of what may actually be called the headland . 
Shaping our course westward we came to the vicinity of a lighthouse standing on the verge of a precipice , the foot of which was washed by the sea . 
Here was a level spot some twenty yards across , in the middle of which stood a heap of stones or cairn . 
Both are bold , bluff headlands looking to the west , both have huge rocks in their vicinity , rising from the bosom of the brine . 
For a time all my thoughts were of Spain . 
Yes , I had done with Spain , and was now in Wales and , after a slight sigh , my thoughts became all intensely Welsh . 
But I should tire the reader were I to detail all the intensely Welsh thoughts which crowded into my head as I stood on the Cairn of the Grey Giant . 
Satiated with looking about and thinking , I sprang from the cairn and rejoined my guide . 
We now descended the eastern side of the hill till we came to a singular looking stone , which had much the appearance of a Druid's stone . 
I inquired of my guide whether there was any tale connected with this stone . 
None , he replied but I have heard people say that it was a strange stone , and on that account I brought you to look at it . 
A little farther down he showed me part of a ruined wall . 
What name does this bear ? said I. Clawdd yr Afalon , he replied . 
The dyke of the orchard . 
A strange place for an orchard , I replied . 
If there was ever an orchard on this bleak hill , the apples must have been very sour . 
Over rocks and stones we descended till we found ourselves on a road , not very far from the shore , on the south east side of the hill . 
I am very thirsty , said I , as I wiped the perspiration from my face how I should like now to drink my fill of cool spring water . 
If your honour is inclined for water , said my guide , I can take you to the finest spring in all Wales . 
Pray do so , said I , for I really am dying of thirst . 
It is on our way to the town , said the lad , and is scarcely a hundred yards off . 
He then led me to the fountain . 
It was a little well under a stone wall , on the left side of the way . 
It might be about two feet deep , was fenced with rude stones , and had a bottom of sand . 
There , said the lad , is the fountain . 
It is called the Fairies' Well , and contains the best water in Wales . 
I lay down and drank . 
After dinner I trifled agreeably with my brandy and water till it was near seven o'clock , when I paid my bill , thought of the waiter and did not forget Father Boots . 
I then took my departure , receiving and returning bows , and walking to the station got into a first class carriage and soon found myself at Bangor . 
CHAPTER XLIII The Inn at Bangor Port Dyn Norwig Sea Serpent Thoroughly Welsh Place Blessing of Health . 
I WENT to the same inn at Bangor at which I had been before . 
It was Saturday night and the house was thronged with people who had arrived by train from Manchester and Liverpool , with the intention of passing the Sunday in the Welsh town . 
I took tea in an immense dining or ball room , which was , however , so crowded with guests that its walls literally sweated . 
Amidst the multitude I felt quite solitary my beloved ones had departed for Llangollen , and there was no one with whom I could exchange a thought or a word of kindness . 
There I passed the night comfortably enough . 
At about eight in the morning I arose , returned to the inn , breakfasted , and departed for Beth Gelert by way of Caernarvon . 
The day was sunny and fiercely hot , as all the days had lately been . 
In about an hour I arrived at Port Dyn Norwig it stood on the right side of the road . 
No doubt , said I to myself , the place derives its name from the piratical Danes and Norse having resorted to it in the old time . 
Port Dyn Norwig seems to consist of a creek , a staithe , and about a hundred houses a few small vessels were lying at the staithe . 
Have you good ale ? said I in English to a good looking buxom dame of about forty , whom I saw in the passage . 
She looked at me but returned no answer . 
Oes genoch cwrw da ? said I. Oes ! she replied with a smile , and opening the door of a room on the left hand bade me walk in . 
I entered the room six or seven men , seemingly sea faring people , were seated drinking and talking vociferously in Welsh . 
Their conversation was about the sea serpent some believed in the existence of such a thing , others did not . 
After a little time one said , Let us ask this gentleman for his opinion . 
And what would be the use of asking him ? said another , we have only Cumraeg , and he has only Saesneg . 
When was that , Gwr Boneddig ? said one of the company . 
And how did you learn this ? said the last who had addressed me . 
I read the story , said I , in a pure Welsh book called the Greal . 
I now remember hearing the same thing , said an old man , when I was a boy it had slipt out of my memory , but now I remember all about it . 
The ship was called the ROBERT ELLIS . 
Are you of these parts , gentleman ? No , said I , I am not of these parts . 
Then you are of South Wales indeed your Welsh is very different from ours . 
But how did you learn Welsh ? said the old man . 
I learned it by the grammar , said I , a long time ago . 
Ah , you learnt it by the grammar , said the old man that accounts for your Welsh being different from ours . 
We did not learn our Welsh by the grammar your Welsh is different from ours , and of course better , being the Welsh of the grammar . 
Ah , it is a fine thing to be a grammarian . 
Yes , it is a fine thing to be a grammarian , cried the rest of the company , and I observed that everybody now regarded me with a kind of respect . 
A jug of ale which the hostess had brought me had been standing before me some time . 
I now tasted it and found it very good . 
Whilst despatching it , I asked various questions about the old Danes , the reason why the place was called the port of the Norwegian , and about its trade . 
In about an hour I reached Caernarvon . 
Not far from Caernarvon a sandbank commences , extending for miles up the Menai , towards Bangor , and dividing the strait into two . 
I went to the Castle Inn which fronts the square or market place , and being shown into a room ordered some brandy and water , and sat down . 
Two young men were seated in the room . 
I spoke to them and received civil answers , at which I was rather astonished , as I found by the tone of their voices that they were English . 
The air of one was far superior to that of the other , and with him I was soon in conversation . 
That he had been about three weeks in Wales , had taken all the exercise that he could , but that he was still very unwell , slept little and had no appetite . 
The intense wish of the poor young man for health caused me to think how insensible I had hitherto been to the possession of the greatest of all terrestrial blessings . 
I shuddered to think how I should feel if suddenly deprived of my health . 
Far worse , no doubt , than that poor invalid . 
He was young , and in youth there is hope but I was no longer young . 
CHAPTER XLIV National School The Young Preacher Pont Bettws Spanish Words Two Tongues , Two Faces The Elephant's Snout Llyn Cwellyn The Snowdon Ranger My House Castell y Cidwm Descent to Beth Gelert . 
IT might be about three o'clock in the afternoon when I left Caernarvon for Beth Gelert , distant about thirteen miles . 
I journeyed through a beautiful country of hill and dale , woods and meadows , the whole gilded by abundance of sunshine . 
After walking about an hour without intermission I reached a village , and asked a man the name of it . 
Llan something , he replied . 
I sat down and listened . 
The young man preached with great zeal and fluency . 
The sermon was a very seasonable one , being about the harvest , and in it things temporal and spiritual were very happily blended . 
The part of the sermon which I heard I regretted that I did not hear the whole lasted about five and twenty minutes a hymn followed , and then the congregation broke up . 
I inquired the name of the young man who preached , and was told that it was Edwards , and that he came from Caernarvon . 
The name of the incumbent of the parish was Thomas . 
Leaving the village of the harvest sermon I proceeded on my way which lay to the south east . 
After a time I entered a most beautiful sunny valley , and presently came to a bridge over a pleasant stream running in the direction of the south . 
Noble Eilio to the north enormous Pen Drws Coed to the south a tall mountain far beyond them to the east . 
I never was in such a lovely spot ! I cried to myself in a perfect rapture . 
Scarcely had I said these words when I observed a man and a woman coming towards the bridge in the direction in which I was bound . 
I hastened to meet them in the hope of obtaining information . 
They were both rather young , and were probably a couple of sweethearts taking a walk or returning from meeting . 
I then addressed myself to the man who had stopped , asking him the name of the bridge . 
Pont Bettws , he replied . 
And what may be the name of the river ? said I. Afon something , said he . 
And on my thanking him he went forward to the woman who was waiting for him by the bridge . 
Is that man Welsh or English ? I heard her say when he had rejoined her . 
A respectable looking man and woman were seated at tea at a table in a nice clean kitchen . 
A handsome dog was seated on the ground suddenly it laid one of its paws on its master's knee . 
Down , Perro , said he . 
Perro ! said I why do you call the dog Perro ? We call him Perro , said the man , because his name is Perro . 
I am rather surprised that a dog in the mountains of Wales should be called by the Spanish word for dog . 
I fell into a fit of musing . 
How Spanish words are diffused ! Wherever you go you will find some Spanish word or other in use . 
How can I doubt it when I reflect that more than six hundred years ago , one of the words to denote a bad woman was Spanish . 
Now , why this preference everywhere for Spanish words over those of every other language ? I never heard French words or German words used by Russian mujiks and Turkish fig gatherers . 
I question whether I should find any in Iceland forming part of the vernacular . 
I certainly never found a French or even a German word in an old Icelandic Saga . 
Before they could say anything , however , a vehicle drove up to the door , and a man getting out came into the room . 
He had a glazed hat on his head , and was dressed something like the guard of a mail . 
He touched his hat to me , and called for a glass of whiskey . 
I gave him the sele of the evening and entered into conversation with him in English . 
The whiskey was brought , and he stood with the glass in his hand . 
Suddenly he began speaking Welsh to the people before , however , he had uttered two sentences the woman lifted her hand with an alarmed air , crying Hush ! he understands . 
The fellow was turning me to ridicule . 
I flung my head back , closed my eyes , opened my mouth and laughed aloud . 
The fellow stood aghast his hand trembled , and he spilt the greater part of the whiskey upon the ground . 
At the end of about half a minute I got up , asked what I had to pay , and on being told twopence , I put down the money . 
Walking rapidly on towards the east I soon drew near the termination of the valley . 
The valley terminates in a deep gorge or pass between Mount Eilio which by the bye is part of the chine of Snowdon and Pen Drws Coed . 
I asked the miller woman , who was standing near the mill , with her head turned towards the setting sun , the name of the mill and the stream . 
The mill is called 'The mill of the river of Lake Cwellyn , said she , and the river is called the river of Lake Cwellyn . 
And who owns the land ? said I. Sir Richard , said she . 
I Sir Richard yw yn perthyn y tir . 
Mr Williams , however , possesses some part of Mount Eilio . 
And who is Mr Williams ? said I. Who is Mr Williams ? said the miller's wife . 
Ho , ho ! what a stranger you must be to ask me who is Mr Williams . 
I smiled and passed on . 
The mill was below the level of the road , and its wheel was turned by the water of a little conduit supplied by the brook at some distance above the mill . 
I had observed similar conduits employed for similar purposes in Cornwall . 
A little below the mill was a weir , and a little below the weir the river ran frothing past the extreme end of the elephant's snout . 
Following the course of the river I at last emerged with it from the pass into a valley surrounded by enormous mountains . 
Extending along it from west to east , and occupying its entire southern part lay an oblong piece of water , into which the streamlet of the pass discharged itself . 
This was one of the many beautiful lakes , which a few days before I had seen from the Wyddfa . 
As for the Wyddfa I now beheld it high above me in the north east looking very grand indeed , shining like a silver helmet whilst catching the glories of the setting sun . 
I proceeded slowly along the road , the lake below me on my right hand , whilst the shelvy side of Snowdon rose above me on the left . 
This cataract was in the neighbourhood of a singular looking rock , projecting above the lake from the mountain's side . 
I wandered a considerable way without meeting or seeing a single human being . 
I quickened my steps and soon came up to the two individuals . 
One was an elderly man , dressed in a smock frock and with a hairy cap on his head . 
The other was much younger , wore a hat , and was dressed in a coarse suit of blue nearly new , and doubtless his Sunday's best . 
He was smoking a pipe . 
I greeted them in English and sat down near them . 
They responded in the same language , the younger man with considerable civility and briskness , the other in a tone of voice denoting some reserve . 
May I ask the name of this lake ? said I , addressing myself to the young man who sat between me and the elderly one . 
Its name is Llyn Cwellyn , sir , said he , taking the pipe out of his mouth . 
And a fine lake it is . 
Plenty of fish in it ? I demanded . 
Plenty , sir plenty of trout and pike and char . 
What is the name , said I , of the great black mountain there on the other side ? It is called Mynydd Mawr or the Great Mountain . 
Did a wolf ever live there ? I demanded . 
Perhaps so , said the man , for I have heard say that there were wolves of old in Wales . 
And what is the name of the beautiful hill yonder , before us across the water ? That , sir , is called Cairn Drws y Coed , said the man . 
The stone heap of the gate of the wood , said I. Are you Welsh , sir ? said the man . 
No , said I , but I know something of the language of Wales . 
I suppose you live in that house ? Not exactly , sir , my father in law here lives in that house , and my wife with him . 
I am a miner , and spend six days in the week at my mine , but every Sunday I come here and pass the day with my wife and him . 
And what profession does he follow ? said I is he a fisherman ? Fisherman ! said the elderly man contemptuously , not I. I am the Snowdon Ranger . 
And what is that ? said I. The elderly man tossed his head proudly , and made no reply . 
He entertains gentlemen in it who put themselves under his guidance in order to ascend Snowdon and to see the country . 
There is some difference in your professions , said he deals in heights , you in depths , both , however , are break necky trades . 
I run more risk from gunpowder than anything else , said the younger man . 
I am a slate miner , and am continually blasting . 
I have , however , had my falls . 
Are you going far to night , sir ? I am going to Beth Gelert , said I. A good six miles , sir , from here . 
Do you come from Caernarvon ? Farther than that , said I. I come from Bangor . 
To day , sir , and walking ? To day , and walking . 
You must be rather tired , sir , you came along the valley very slowly . 
I am not in the slightest degree tired , said I when I start from here , I shall put on my best pace , and soon get to Beth Gelert . 
Anybody can get along over level ground , said the old man , laconically . 
Won't you walk in , sir ? said the elderly man . 
No , I thank you , said I , I prefer sitting out here gazing on the lake and the noble mountains . 
I wish you would , sir , said the elderly man , and take a glass of something I will charge you nothing . 
Thank you , said I , I am in want of nothing , and shall presently start . 
The place to ascend Snowdon from is my house . 
If your honour is bound for the Wyddfa , as I suppose you are , you had better start from my house to morrow under my guidance . 
I suppose you are acquainted with all the secrets of the hills ? Trust the old ranger for that , your honour . 
I shouldn't wonder , said I , if in old times it was the stronghold of some robber chieftain cidwm in the old Welsh is frequently applied to a ferocious man . 
Castell Cidwm , I should think , rather ought to be translated the robber's castle than the wolf's rock . 
If I ever come into these parts again you and I will visit it together , and see what kind of place it is . 
Now farewell ! It is getting late . 
What a nice gentleman ! said the younger man , when I was a few yards distant . 
I never saw a nicer gentleman , said the old ranger . 
I sped along , Snowdon on my left , the lake on my right , and the tip of a mountain peak right before me in the east . 
After a little time I looked back what a scene ! The silver lake and the shadowy mountain over its southern side looking now , methought , very much like Gibraltar . 
I lingered and lingered , gazing and gazing , and at last only by an effort tore myself away . 
The evening had now become delightfully cool in this land of wonders . 
On I sped , passing by two noisy brooks coming from Snowdon to pay tribute to the lake . 
And now I had left the lake and the valley behind , and was ascending a hill . 
As I gained its summit , up rose the moon to cheer my way . 
In a little time , a wild stony gorge confronted me , a stream ran down the gorge with hollow roar , a bridge lay across it . 
I asked a figure whom I saw standing by the bridge the place's name . 
Rhyd du the black ford I crossed the bridge . 
The voice of the Methodist was yelling from a little chapel on my left . 
I went to the door and listened When the sinner takes hold of God , God takes hold of the sinner . 
The voice was frightfully hoarse . 
I passed on night fell fast around me , and the mountain to the south east , towards which I was tending , looked blackly grand . 
And now I came to a milestone on which I read with difficulty Three miles to Beth Gelert . 
The way for some time had been upward , but now it was downward . 
I reached a torrent , which coming from the north west rushed under a bridge , over which I passed . 
The torrent attended me on my right hand the whole way to Beth Gelert . 
The descent now became very rapid . 
I passed a pine wood on my left , and proceeded for more than two miles at a tremendous rate . 
I passed over a bridge , and inquiring of some people whom I met the way to the inn , was shown an edifice brilliantly lighted up , which I entered . 
CHAPTER XLV Inn at Beth Gelert Delectable Company Lieutenant P . 
Then there was a creature to do justice to whose appearance would require the pencil of a Hogarth . 
His countenance was cadaverous and was eternally agitated by something between a grin and a simper . 
He was dressed in a style of superfine gentility , and his skeleton fingers were bedizened with tawdry rings . 
His accent was decidedly Scotch he spoke familiarly of Scott and one or two other Scotch worthies , and more than once insinuated that he was a member of Parliament . 
Eager to get out of such society I retired early to bed . 
I passed a quiet night , and in the morning breakfasted , paid my bill , and departed . 
Poor P , whose only crime was trying to defend himself with fist and candlestick from the manual attacks of his brutal messmates . 
CHAPTER XLVI The Valley of Gelert Legend of the Dog Magnificent Scenery The Knicht Goats in Wales The Frightful Crag Temperance House Smile and Curtsey . 
A small stream rushes through the valley , and sallies forth by a pass at its south eastern end . 
Though the legend is known to most people , I shall take the liberty of relating it . 
Llywelyn returning at evening found the tent on the ground , and the dog , covered with blood , sitting beside it . 
His breast was now filled with conflicting emotions , joy for the preservation of his son , and grief for the fate of his dog , to whom he forthwith hastened . 
The poor animal was not quite dead , but presently expired , in the act of licking his master's hand . 
Llywelyn mourned over him as over a brother , buried him with funeral honours in the valley , and erected a tomb over him as over a hero . 
From that time the valley was called Beth Gelert . 
Such is the legend , which , whether true or fictitious , is singularly beautiful and affecting . 
It is shaded by a weeping willow , and is surrounded by a hexagonal paling . 
The way to it is through the pass at the south east end of the valley . 
Arrived at the entrance of the pass I turned round to look at the scenery I was leaving behind me the view which presented itself to my eyes was very grand and beautiful . 
Before me lay the meadow of Gelert with the river flowing through it towards the pass . 
Beyond the meadow the Snowdon range on the right the mighty Cerrig Llan on the left the equally mighty , but not quite so precipitous , Hebog . 
Truly , the valley of Gelert is a wondrous valley rivalling for grandeur and beauty any vale either in the Alps or Pyrenees . 
After a long and earnest view I turned round again and proceeded on my way . 
Presently I came to a bridge bestriding the stream , which a man told me was called Pont Aber Glas Lyn , or the bridge of the debouchement of the grey lake . 
I soon emerged from the pass , and after proceeding some way stopped again to admire the scenery . 
I again went on , going round the side of a hill by a gentle ascent . 
After a little time I again stopped to look about me . 
As I stood looking about me I saw a man coming across a field which sloped down to the road from a small house . 
He presently reached me , stopped and smiled . 
A more open countenance than his I never saw in all the days of my life . 
Dydd dachwi , sir , said the man of the open countenance , the weather is very showy . 
Very showy , indeed , said I I was just now wishing for somebody , of whom I might ask a question or two . 
Perhaps I can answer those questions , sir ? Perhaps you can . 
It is called the 'Knicht , sir and a wondrous hill it is . 
And what is the name of yonder hill opposite to it , to the south , rising like one big lump . 
I do not know the name of that hill , sir , farther than that I have heard it called the Great Hill . 
And a very good name for it , said I do you live in that house ? I do , sir , when I am at home . 
And what occupation do you follow ? I am a farmer , though a small one . 
Is your farm your own ? It is not , sir I am not so far rich . 
Who is your landlord ? Mr Blicklin , sir . 
Is he a good landlord ? Very good , sir , no one can wish for a better landlord . 
Has he a wife ? In truth , sir , he has and a very good wife she is . 
Has he children ? Plenty , sir and very fine children they are . 
Is he Welsh ? He is , sir ! Cumro pur iawn . 
Farewell , said I I shall never forget you you are the first tenant I ever heard speak well of his landlord , or any one connected with him . 
Then you have not spoken to the other tenants of Mr Blicklin , sir . 
Every tenant of Mr Blicklin would say the same of him as I have said , and of his wife and his children too . 
Good day , sir ! I wended on my way the sun was very powerful saw cattle in a pool on my right , maddened with heat and flies , splashing and fighting . 
They were of large size , and very different in appearance from the common race . 
These were the first goats which I had seen in Wales for Wales is not at present the land of goats , whatever it may have been . 
I passed under a crag exceedingly lofty , and of very frightful appearance . 
It hung menacingly over the road . 
With this crag the wall of rocks terminated beyond it lay an extensive strath , meadow , or marsh bounded on the cast by a lofty hill . 
The road lay across the marsh . 
I went forward , crossed a bridge over a beautiful streamlet , and soon arrived at the foot of the hill . 
The road now took a turn to the right , that is to the south , and seemed to lead round the hill . 
Just at the turn of the road stood a small neat cottage . 
There was a board over the door with an inscription . 
I was before what is generally termed a temperance house . 
It does not , said I , and you ought to be ashamed of yourself to have nothing better to offer to a traveller than a cup of tea . 
I am faint and I want good ale to give me heart , not wishy washy tea to take away the little strength I have . 
And if you choose to step in , I will make you a cup of tea , not wishy washy , I assure you , but as good as ever was brewed . 
I had tea for my breakfast at Beth Gelert , said I , and want no more till to morrow morning . 
What's the name of that strange looking crag across the valley ? We call it Craig yr hyll ddrem , sir which means I don't know what it means in English . 
Does it mean the crag of the frightful look ? It does , sir , said the woman ah , I see you understand Welsh . 
Sometimes it's called Allt Traeth . 
Pray , sir , walk in , said the woman , and perhaps I can accommodate you . 
Then you have ale ? said I. No , sir not a drop , but perhaps I can set something before you which you will like as well . 
That I question , said I , however , I will walk in . 
The woman conducted me into a nice little parlour , and , leaving me , presently returned with a bottle and tumbler on a tray . 
Here , sir , said she , is something , which though not ale , I hope you will be able to drink . 
What is it ? said I. It is , sir and better never was drunk . 
I tasted it it was terribly strong . 
Those who wish for either whisky or brandy far above proof , should always go to a temperance house . 
I told the woman to bring me some water , and she brought me a jug of water cold from the spring . 
I asked the woman whether she could read she told me that she could , both Welsh and English she likewise informed me that she had several books in both languages . 
I begged her to show me some , whereupon she brought me some half dozen , and placing them on the table left me to myself . 
Amongst the books was a volume of poems in Welsh , written by Robert Williams of Betws Fawr , styled in poetic language , Gwilym Du O Eifion . 
The poems were chiefly on religious subjects . 
Having finished my glass of summut and my translation , I called to the woman and asked her what I had to pay . 
Nothing , said she , if you had had a cup of tea I should have charged sixpence . 
You make no charge , said I , for what I have had ? Nothing , sir , nothing . 
But suppose , said I , I were to give you something by way of present would you and here I stopped . 
Would you fling it in my face ? said I. Oh dear , no , sir , said the woman , smiling more than before . 
I gave her something it was not a sixpence at which she not only smiled but curtseyed then bidding her farewell I went out of the door . 
CHAPTER XLVII Spanish Proverb The Short Cut Predestinations Rhys Goch Old Crusty Undercharging The Cavalier . 
THE Spaniards have a proverb No hay atajo sin trabajo , there is no short cut without a deal of labour . 
On the present occasion I lost my way , and wandered about for nearly two hours amidst rocks , thickets , and precipices , without being able to find it . 
The temperance woman , however , spoke nothing but the truth when she said I should see some fine scenery . 
At length coming to a stone wall I flung myself down under it , and almost thought that I should give up the ghost . 
After some time , however , I recovered , and getting up tried to find my way out of the anialwch . 
Trust me again taking any short cuts , said I , after the specimen I have just had . 
This , however , I had frequently said before , and have said since after taking short cuts and probably shall often say again before I come to my great journey's end . 
I turned to the east which I knew to be my proper direction , and being now on smooth ground put my legs to their best speed . 
The road by a rapid descent conducted me to a beautiful valley with a small town at its southern end . 
I soon reached the town , and on inquiring its name found I was in Tan y Bwlch , which interpreted signifieth Below the Pass . 
Feeling much exhausted I entered the Grapes Inn . 
On my calling for brandy and water I was shown into a handsome parlour . 
The brandy and water soon restored the vigour which I had lost in the wilderness . 
In the parlour was a serious looking gentleman , with a glass of something before him . 
With him , as I sipped my brandy and water , I got into discourse . 
The discourse soon took a religious turn , and terminated in a dispute . 
He told me he believed in divine predestination I told him I did not , but that I believed in divine prescience . 
He asked me whether I hoped to be saved I told him I did , and asked him whether he hoped to be saved . 
He told me he did not , and as he said so , he tapped with a silver tea spoon on the rim of his glass . 
I said that he seemed to take very coolly the prospect of damnation he replied that it was of no use taking what was inevitable otherwise than coolly . 
I asked him on what ground he imagined he should be lost he replied on the ground of being predestined to be lost . 
I asked him how he knew he was predestined to be lost whereupon he asked me how I knew I was to be saved . 
Our dispute continued a considerable time longer . 
There can be no doubt that the idea of damnation is anything but disagreeable to some people it gives them a kind of gloomy consequence in their own eyes . 
We must be something particular they think , or God would hardly think it worth His while to torment us for ever . 
I soon found myself in another and very noble valley , intersected by the river which was fed by numerous streams rolling down the sides of the hills . 
The road which I followed in the direction of the east lay on the southern side of the valley and led upward by a steep ascent . 
On I went , a mighty hill close on my right . 
Strolling along in this manner I was overtaken by an old fellow with a stick in his hand , walking very briskly . 
He had a crusty and rather conceited look . 
We were from first to last at cross purposes . 
I asked him about Rhys Goch and his chair . 
He told me that he knew nothing of either , and began to talk of Her Majesty's ministers and the fine sights of London . 
I asked him the name of a stream which , descending a gorge on our right , ran down the side of a valley , to join the river at its bottom . 
He told me that he did not know , and asked me the name of the Queen's eldest daughter . 
I told him I did not know , and remarked that it was very odd that he could not tell me the name of a stream in his own vale . 
I returned to the subject of Rhys Goch and his chair , and he returned to the subject of Her Majesty's ministers , and the fine folks of London . 
Regularly incensed against the old fellow , I told him he was a bad Welshman , and he retorted by saying I was a bad Englishman . 
I said he appeared to know next to nothing . 
We were both wrong I most so . 
He was crusty and conceited , but I ought to have humoured him and then I might have got out of him anything he knew , always supposing that he knew anything . 
I felt very fatigued , rather I believe from that unlucky short cut than from the length of the way , for I had not come more than eighteen miles . 
After dinner I got up , went out and strolled about the place . 
It was small , and presented nothing very remarkable . 
As I leaned against the wall , an elderly man came up and entered into discourse with me . 
He told me he was a barber by profession , had travelled all over Wales , and had seen London . 
I asked him about the chair of Rhys Goch . 
He told me that he had heard of some such chair a long time ago , but could give me no information as to where it stood . 
I know not how it happened that he came to speak about my landlady , but speak about her he did . 
He said that she was a good kind of woman , but totally unqualified for business , as she knew not how to charge . 
I returned to the inn , and called for lights the lights were placed upon the table in the old fashioned parlour , and I was left to myself . 
I walked up and down the room some time . 
CHAPTER XLVIII The Bill The Two Mountains Sheet of Water The Afanc Crocodile The Afanc Beaver Tai Hirion Kind Woman Arenig Vawr The Beam and Mote Bala . 
AFTER breakfasting I demanded my bill . 
When it was brought , however , and the landlady brought it herself , I could scarcely believe my eyes . 
It was , however , not a very unconscionable bill , and merely amounted to a trifle more than I had paid at Beth Gelert for somewhat better entertainment . 
Passing through a tollgate I found myself in a kind of suburb consisting of a few cottages . 
Struck with the neighbouring scenery , I stopped to observe it . 
A mighty mountain rises in the north almost abreast of Festiniog another towards the east divided into two of unequal size . 
Seeing a woman of an interesting countenance seated at the door of a cottage I pointed to the hill towards the north , and speaking the Welsh language , inquired its name . 
That hill , sir , said she , is called Moel Wyn . 
Now Moel Wyn signifies the white , bare hill . 
And how do you call those two hills towards the east ? We call one , sir , Mynydd Mawr , the other Mynydd Bach . 
Now Mynydd Mawr signifies the great mountain and Mynydd Bach the little one . 
Do any people live in those hills ? The men who work the quarries , sir , live in those hills . 
They and their wives and their children . 
Have you any English ? I have not , sir . 
No people who live on this side the talcot for a long way have any English . 
I proceeded on my journey . 
The country for some way eastward of Festiniog is very wild and barren , consisting of huge hills without trees or verdure . 
About three miles' distance , however , there is a beautiful valley , which you look down upon from the southern side of the road , after having surmounted a very steep ascent . 
This valley is fresh and green and the lower parts of the hills on its farther side are , here and there , adorned with groves . 
At the eastern end is a deep , dark gorge , or ravine , down which tumbles a brook in a succession of small cascades . 
The ravine is close by the road . 
As I was gazing on the prospect an old man driving a peat cart came from the direction in which I was going . 
I asked him the name of the ravine and he told me it was Ceunant Coomb or hollow dingle coomb . 
Whilst he was talking with me he stood uncovered . 
Yes , the old peat driver stood with his hat in his hand whilst answering the questions of the poor , dusty foot traveller . 
What a fine thing to be an Englishman in Wales ! In about an hour I came to a wild moor the moor extended for miles and miles . 
It was bounded on the east and south by immense hills and moels . 
On I walked at a round pace , the sun scorching me sore , along a dusty , hilly road , now up , now down . 
Nothing could be conceived more cheerless than the scenery around . 
The ground on each side of the road was mossy and rushy no houses instead of them were neat stacks , here and there , standing in their blackness . 
Nothing living to be seen except a few miserable sheep picking the wretched herbage , or lying panting on the shady side of the peat clumps . 
At length I saw something which appeared to be a sheet of water at the bottom of a low ground on my right . 
It looked far off Shall I go and see what it is ? thought I to myself . 
No , thought I. It is too far off so on I walked till I lost sight of it , when I repented and thought I would go and see what it was . 
So I dashed down the moory slope on my right , and presently saw the object again and now I saw that it was water . 
I sped towards it through gorse and heather , occasionally leaping a deep drain . 
At last I reached it . 
It was a small lake . 
Wearied and panting I flung myself on its bank and gazed upon it . 
Near the shore it was shallow , at least near that shore upon which I lay . 
But farther on , my eye , practised in deciding upon the depths of waters , saw reason to suppose that its depth was very great . 
As I gazed upon it my mind indulged in strange musings . 
I thought of the afanc , a creature which some have supposed to be the harmless and industrious beaver , others the frightful and destructive crocodile . 
I wondered whether the afanc was the crocodile or the beaver , and speedily had no doubt that the name was originally applied to the crocodile . 
Then I wondered whether the pool before me had been the haunt of the afanc , considered both as crocodile and beaver . 
I saw no reason to suppose that it had not . 
Much in this guise rolled my thoughts as I lay stretched on the margin of the lake . 
Satiated with musing I at last got up and endeavoured to regain the road . 
I found it at last , though not without considerable difficulty . 
It was crossed by two bridges , one immensely old and terribly dilapidated , the other old enough , but in better repair went and drank under the oldest bridge of the two . 
The water tasted of the peat of the moors , nevertheless I drank greedily of it , for one must not be over delicate upon the moors . 
A kind of farm yard was before them . 
A respectable looking woman was standing in the yard . 
I went up to her and inquired the name of the place . 
These houses , sir , said she , are called Tai Hirion Mignaint . 
Look over that door and you will see T. H. which letters stand for Tai Hirion . 
Mignaint is the name of the place where they stand . 
I looked , and upon a stone which formed the lintel of the middlemost door I read T. H . 
The words Tai Hirion it will be as well to say signify the long houses . 
I looked long and steadfastly at the inscription , my mind full of thoughts of the past . 
Many a year has rolled by since these houses were built , said I , as I sat down on a stepping stone . 
Many indeed , sir , said the woman , and many a strange thing has happened . 
Did you ever hear of one Oliver Cromwell ? said I. Oh , yes , sir , and of King Charles too . 
The men of both have been in this yard and have baited their horses aye , and have mounted their horses from the stone on which you sit . 
I suppose they were hardly here together ? said I. No , no , sir , said the woman , they were bloody enemies , and could never set their horses together . 
Are these long houses , said I , inhabited by different families ? Only by one , sir , they make now one farm house . 
Are you the mistress of it , said I. I am , sir , and my husband is the master . 
Can I bring you anything , sir ? Some water , said I , for I am thirsty , though I drank under the old bridge . 
The good woman brought me a basin of delicious milk and water . 
And what do you call the ffrwd that runs beneath them ? I believe , sir , it is called the river Twerin . 
Do you know a lake far up there amidst the moors ? I have seen it , sir they call it Llyn Twerin . 
Does the river Twerin flow from it ? I believe it does , sir , but I do not know . 
Is the lake deep ? I have heard that it is very deep , sir , so much so that nobody knows it's depth . 
Are there fish in it ? Digon , sir , digon iawn , and some very large . 
I once saw a Pen hwyad from that lake which weighed fifty pounds . 
After a little farther conversation I got up , and thanking the kind woman departed . 
They were almost overshadowed by an enormous mountain which rose beyond the fen on the south . 
A rustic looking man sat smoking at a table with a jug of ale before him . 
I sat down near him , and the good woman brought me a similar jug of ale , which on tasting I found excellent . 
My spirits which had been for some time very flagging presently revived , and I entered into conversation with my companion at the table . 
Having finished my ale I paid for it , and leaving the Calvinistic farmer still smoking , I departed from Rhyd y fen . 
After a little time , meeting two women , I asked them the name of the mountain to the south . 
Arenig Vawr , they replied , or something like it . 
Presently meeting four men I put the same question to the foremost , a stout , burly , intelligent looking fellow , of about fifty . 
He gave me the same name as the women . 
I asked if anybody lived upon it . 
No , said he , too cold for man . 
Fox ? said I. No ! too cold for fox . 
Crow ? said I. No , too cold for crow crow would be starved upon it . 
He then looked me in the face , expecting probably that I should smile . 
I subsequently remembered that Arenig is mentioned in a Welsh poem , though in anything but a flattering and advantageous manner . 
The writer calls it Arenig ddiffaith or barren Arenig , and says that it intercepts from him the view of his native land . 
Arenig is certainly barren enough , for there is neither tree nor shrub upon it , but there is something majestic in its huge bulk . 
Of all the hills which I saw in Wales none made a greater impression upon me . 
Towards evening I arrived at a very small and pretty village in the middle of which was a tollgate . 
Seeing an old woman seated at the door of the gate house I asked her the name of the village . 
I have no Saesneg ! she screamed out . 
I have plenty of Cumraeg , said I , and repeated my question . 
Whereupon she told me that it was called Tref y Talcot the village of the tollgate . 
That it was a very nice village , and that she was born there . 
She then pointed to two young women who were walking towards the gate at a very slow pace and told me they were English . 
I thought of the beam and mote mentioned in Scripture , and then cast a glance of compassion on the two poor young women . 
Shortly after leaving the village of the tollgate I came to a beautiful valley . 
A more bewitching scene I never beheld . 
Ceres and Pan seemed in this place to have met to hold their bridal . 
The sun now descending shone nobly upon the whole . 
When I came up the old fellow took off his hat to me , and I forthwith entered into conversation with him . 
I soon gathered from him that he was a horsedealer from Bala , and that he had been out on the road with his servant to break a horse . 
Discourse shortened the way to both of us , and we were soon in Bala . 
Prydnawn da 'chwi ! CHAPTER XLIX Tom Jenkins Ale of Bala Sober Moments Local Prejudices The States Unprejudiced Man Welsh Pensilvanian Settlers Drapery Line Evening Saunter . 
SCARCELY had I entered the door of the inn when a man presented himself to me with a low bow . 
He wore brown clothes , had no hat on his head , and held a napkin in his hand . 
And I have no doubt , said I , that he could not place his confidence in any one more worthy . 
With a bow yet lower than the preceding one the waiter replied with a smirk and a grimace , Thanks , your honour , for your good opinion . 
I assure your honour that I am deeply obliged . 
His air , manner , and even accent , were so like those of a Frenchman , that I could not forbear asking him whether he was one . 
He shook his head and replied , No , your honour , no , I am not a Frenchman , but a native of this poor country , Tom Jenkins by name . 
Well , said I , you really look and speak like a Frenchman , but no wonder the Welsh and French are much of the same blood . 
Please now to show me into the parlour . 
After ordering dinner I said that as I was thirsty I should like to have some ale forthwith . 
Ale you shall have , your honour , said Tom , and some of the best ale that can be drunk . 
This house is famous for ale . 
I suppose you get your ale from Llangollen , said I , which is celebrated for its ale over Wales . 
Get our ale from Llangollen ? said Tom , with sneer of contempt , no , nor anything else . 
As for the ale it was brewed in this house by your honour's humble servant . 
Oh , said I , if you brewed it , it must of course be good . 
Pray bring me some immediately , for I am anxious to drink ale of your brewing . 
Your honour shall be obeyed , said Tom , and disappearing returned in a twinkling with a tray on which stood a jug filled with liquor and a glass . 
Taste it , your honour , said Tom , and tell me if you ever tasted such ale . 
I tasted it , and then took a copious draught . 
Many people of the first quality go to visit it , said I. That is because it lies so handy for England , your honour . 
If it did not , nobody would go to see it . 
Then we have our lake , our Llyn Tegid , the lake of beauty . 
Show me anything like that near Llangollen ? Then , said I , there is your mound , your Tomen Bala . 
The Llangollen people can show nothing like that . 
Tom Jenkins looked at me for a moment with some surprise , and then said I see you have been here before , sir . 
No , said I , never , but I have read about the Tomen Bala in books , both Welsh and English . 
You have , sir , said Tom . 
Well , I am rejoiced to see so book learned a gentleman in our house . 
The Tomen Bala has puzzled many a head . 
Do they say who built it ? Some say the Tylwyth Teg built it , others that it was cast up over a dead king by his people . 
The truth is , nobody here knows who built it , or anything about it , save that it is a wonder . 
Ah , those people of Llangollen can show nothing like it . 
Come , said I , you must not be so hard upon the people of Llangollen . 
They appear to me upon the whole to be an eminently respectable body . 
The Celtic waiter gave a genuine French shrug . 
Excuse me , your honour , for being of a different opinion . 
I have occasionally seen drunken people at Llangollen , said I , but I have likewise seen a great many sober . 
That I can hardly believe , said I. Your honour can't ! but I can who know them . 
They are all drunkards , and nobody can live among them without being a drunkard . 
There was my nephew What of him ? said I. Why he went to Llangollen , your honour , and died of a drunken fever in less than a month . 
One observation however , I wish to make I have lived at Llangollen , without , I hope , becoming a drunkard . 
Oh , your honour is out of the question , said the Celtic waiter with a strange grimace . 
And now , your honour , pray excuse me , for I must go and see that your honour's dinner is being got ready in a suitable manner . 
Thereupon he left me with a bow yet lower than any I had previously seen him make . 
If his manners put me in mind of those of a Frenchman , his local prejudices brought powerfully to my recollection those of a Spaniard . 
The dinner when it appeared was excellent , and consisted of many more articles than I had ordered . 
Fine weather , sir , said I , at last , rather tired of being skewed and spit at in this manner . 
Why yaas , said the figure the day is tolerably fine , but I have seen a finer . 
The weather is fine enough for Britain , said the figure , but there are other countries besides Britain . 
Why , said I , there's the States , 'tis true . 
Ever been in the States , Mr ? said the figure quickly . 
Have I ever been in the States , said I , have I ever been in the States ? Perhaps you are of the States , Mr I thought so from the first . 
The States are fine countries , said I. I guess they are , Mr. It would be no easy matter to whip the States . 
So I should guess , Mr. That is , single handed , said I. Single handed , no nor double handed either . 
I say nothing of England catch me saying anything good of England but I call Wales a fine country gainsay it who may , I call Wales a fine country . 
So it is , Mr. I'll go farther , said I I wish to do justice to everything I call the Welsh a fine language . 
So it is , Mr. Ah , I see you are an unprejudiced man . 
You don't understand Welsh , I guess . 
I don't understand Welsh , said I I don't understand Welsh . 
That's what I call a good one . 
Medrwch siarad Cumraeg ? said the short figure spitting on the carpet . 
Medraf , said I. You can , Mr ! Well , if that don't whip the Union . 
But I see you were born in the States of Welsh parents . 
No harm in being born in the States of Welsh parents , said I. None at all , Mr I was myself , and the first language I learnt to speak was Welsh . 
Did your people come from Bala , Mr ? Why no ! Did yourn ? Why yaas at least from the neighbourhood . 
Is there much Welsh blood in Pensilvany then ? Plenty , Mr , plenty . 
Welsh flocked over to Pensilvany even as far back as the time of William Pen , who as you know , Mr , was the first founder of the Pensilvany State . 
And that puts me in mind that there is a curious account extant of the adventures of one of the old Welsh settlers in Pensilvania . 
It is to be found in a letter in an old Welsh book . 
It is in answer to certain inquiries made by the cousin , and is written in pure old Welsh language . 
It is a wonderful letter , Mr , all written in the pure old Welsh language . 
I say , Mr , you are a cute one and know a thing or two . 
'Stonishing ! but see the force of blood at last . 
In any line of business ? No , Mr , can't say I am . 
Have money in your pocket , and travel for pleasure . 
Come to see father's land . 
Come to see old Wales . 
And what brings you here , Hiraeth ? That's longing . 
Came over to England to see what I could do . 
Got in with house at Liverpool in the drapery business . 
Travel for it hereabouts , having connections and speaking the language . 
Do branch business here for a banking house besides . 
Manage to get on smartly . 
You look a smart 'un . 
But don't you find it sometimes hard to compete with English travellers in the drapery line ? I guess not . 
English travellers ! set of nat'rals . 
Don't know the language and nothing else . 
Could whip a dozen any day . 
You do , Mr ? Ah , I see you're a cute 'un . 
Glad to have met you . 
I say , Mr , you have not told me from what county your forefathers were . 
From Norfolk and Cornwall counties . 
Didn't know there were such counties in Wales . 
But there are in England . 
Why , you told me you were of Welsh parents . 
But how did you come to know Welsh ? Why , that's my bit of a secret . 
But you are of the United States ? Never knew that before . 
Mr , you flummox me . 
Just as you do the English drapery travellers . 
But there are none of the swell mob here . 
Don't be too sure of that , said I the swell coves spare no expense for their education so that they may be able to play parts according to circumstances . 
I strongly advise you , Mr , to put that bag somewhere else lest something should happen to it . 
Well , Mr , I'll take your advice . 
These are my quarters , and I was merely going to keep the money here for convenience' sake . 
The money belongs to the bank , so it is but right to stow it away in the bank safe . 
I certainly should be loth to leave it here with you in the room , after what you have said . 
He then got up , unlocked the drawer , took out the bag , and with a Goodnight , Mr , left the room . 
I trifled over my brandy and water till I finished it , and then walked forth to look at the town . 
I turned up a street , which led to the east , and soon found myself beside the lake at the north west extremity of which Bala stands . 
It appeared a very noble sheet of water stretching from north to south for several miles . 
As , however , night was fast coming on I did not see it to its full advantage . 
Their language as far as I heard it differed in scarcely any respect from that of Llangollen . 
Now what was the cause of all this ? Why , suspicion of the Saxon . 
CHAPTER L The Breakfast The Tomen Bala El Punto de la Vana . 
I SLEPT soundly that night , as well I might , my bed being good and my body weary . 
I arose about nine , dressed and went down to the parlour which was vacant . 
In about twenty minutes after I had ordered it my breakfast made its appearance . 
A noble breakfast it was such indeed as I might have read of , but had never before seen . 
There was tea and coffee , a goodly white loaf and butter there were a couple of eggs and two mutton chops . 
There was broiled and pickled salmon there was fried trout there were also potted trout and potted shrimps . 
Mercy upon me ! I had never previously seen such a breakfast set before me , nor indeed have I subsequently . 
Yes , I have subsequently , and at that very house when I visited it some months after . 
After breakfast I called for the bill . 
I forget the exact amount of the bill , but remember that it was very moderate . 
I paid it and gave the noble Thomas a shilling , which he received with a bow and truly French smile , that is a grimace . 
Having seen little of the town on the preceding evening , I determined before setting out for Llangollen to become better acquainted with it , and accordingly took another stroll about it . 
Bala is a town containing three or four thousand inhabitants , situated near the northern end of an oblong valley , at least two thirds of which are occupied by Llyn Tegid . 
After gratifying my curiosity with respect to the town , I visited the mound the wondrous Tomen Bala . 
The Tomen Bala stands at the northern end of the town . 
It is apparently formed of clay , is steep and of difficult ascent . 
In height it is about thirty feet , and in diameter at the top about fifty . 
The Tomen is about the same size as Glendower's Mount on the Dee , which it much resembles in shape . 
From the Tomen there is a noble view of the Bala valley , the Lake of Beauty up to its southern extremity , and the neighbouring and distant mountains . 
Of Bala , its lake and Tomen , I shall have something to say on a future occasion . 
Leaving Bala I passed through the village of Llanfair and found myself by the Dee , whose course I followed for some way . 
Coming to the northern extremity of the Bala valley , I entered a pass tending due north . 
Here the road slightly diverged from the river . 
I sped along , delighted with the beauty of the scenery . 
An hour's walking brought me into a comparatively open country , fruitful and charming . 
At about one o'clock I reached a large village , the name of which , like those of most Welsh villages , began with Llan . 
There I refreshed myself for an hour or two in an old fashioned inn , and then resumed my journey . 
I passed through Corwen again visited Glendower's monticle upon the Dee , and reached Llangollen shortly after sunset , where I found my beloved two well and glad to see me . 
The lasses of Havanna ride to mass in coaches yellow , But ere they go they ask if the priest's a handsome fellow . 
The lasses of Havanna as mulberries are dark , And try to make them fairer by taking Jesuit's bark . 
CHAPTER LI The Ladies of Llangollen Sir Alured Eisteddfodau Pleasure and Care . 
I next went to visit the old church clerk of whom I had so much to say on a former occasion . 
He was in the army , and in his youth , owing to the beauty of his person , was called , 'the handsome captain . 
It was said that one of the royal princesses was desperately in love with him , and that on that account George the Third insisted on his going to India . 
Whether or not there was truth in the report , to India he went , where he served with distinction for a great many years . 
It was rumoured at Llangollen that Lady Eleanor's death was a grievous blow to Sir Alured , and that he would never be seen there again . 
In the evening , on his taking leave of Miss Ponsonby , she said that he had used her ill . 
Sir Alured coloured , and asked her what she meant , adding that he had not to his knowledge used any person ill in the course of his life . 
'But I say you have used me ill , very ill , said Miss Ponsonby , raising her voice , and the words 'very ill' she repeated several times . 
At last the old soldier waxing rather warm demanded an explanation . 
We got on the subject of bards , and I mentioned to him Gruffydd Hiraethog , the old poet buried in the chancel of Llangollen church . 
The old clerk was not aware that he was buried there , and said that though he had heard of him he knew little or nothing about him . 
Where was he born ? said he . 
In Denbighshire , I replied , near the mountain Hiraethog , from which circumstance he called himself in poetry Gruffydd Hiraethog . 
When did he flourish ? About the middle of the sixteenth century . 
Did you ever hear of William Lleyn ? said the old gentleman . 
Really , said the old clerk , you seem to know something about Welsh poetry . 
But what is meant by a muse springing up from Adam's mouth in Eden ? Why , I suppose , said I , that Adam invented poetry . 
I made inquiries of him about the eisteddfodau or sessions of bards , and expressed a wish to be present at one of them . 
I mentioned Thomas Edwards , whose picture I had seen in Valle Crucis Abbey . 
The old gentleman concluded by saying that he had never read the works of Twm O'r Nant , but he had heard that his best piece was the interlude called Pleasure and Care . 
CHAPTER LII The Treachery of the Long Knives The North Briton The Wounded Butcher The Prisoner . 
ON the tenth of September our little town was flung into some confusion by one butcher having attempted to cut the throat of another . 
The Welshman might be mad , but it appeared to me that there was some method in his madness . 
But here perhaps the reader will ask what is meant by the treachery of the long knives ? whether he does or not I will tell him . 
Hengist wishing to become paramount in Southern Britain thought that the easiest way to accomplish his wish would be by destroying the South British chieftains . 
Not believing that he should be able to make away with them by open force he determined to see what he could do by treachery . 
Accordingly he invited the chieftains to a banquet to be held near Stonehenge , or the Hanging Stones , on Salisbury Plains . 
The unsuspecting chieftains accepted the invitation , and on the appointed day repaired to the banquet , which was held in a huge tent . 
The banquet commenced , and all seemingly was mirth and hilarity . 
Almost every blow took effect only three British chieftains escaping from the banquet of blood . 
This infernal carnage the Welsh have appropriately denominated the treachery of the long knives . 
Accordingly I went to the police station and inquired of the superintendent whether I could be permitted to attend . 
Are the Welsh a clannish people ? I demanded . 
As clannish as the Highlanders ? said I. Yes , said he , and a good deal more . 
We came to the house of the wounded butcher , which was some way out of the town in the north western suburb . 
The magistrate was in the lower apartment with the clerk , one or two officials , and the surgeon of the town . 
He made me a polite bow when I entered , and I requested of him permission to be present at the examination . 
He hesitated a moment and then asked me my motive for wishing to be present at it . 
Merely curiosity , said I. He then observed that as the examination would be a private one , my being permitted or not was quite optional . 
I am aware of that , said I , and if you think my remaining is objectionable I will forthwith retire . 
We went upstairs and found the wounded man in bed with a bandage round his forehead , and his wife sitting by his bedside . 
The magistrate and his officials took their seats , and I was accommodated with a chair . 
Presently the prisoner was introduced under the charge of a policeman . 
He was a fellow somewhat above thirty , of the middle size , and wore a dirty white frock coat his right arm was partly confined by a manacle . 
A young girl was sworn , who deposed that she saw the prisoner run after the other with something in his hand . 
I then , said he , observed the prisoner's countenance undergo a change , and saw him put his hand to his waistcoat pocket and pull out a knife . 
I straight became frightened , and ran away as fast as I could the prisoner followed , and overtaking me , stabbed me in the face . 
I ran into the yard of a public house and into the shop of an acquaintance , where I fell down , the blood spouting out of my wound . 
Such was the deposition of the wounded butcher . 
The prisoner , on being asked , after the usual caution , whether he had anything to say , said that he merely wished to mark the man but not to kill him . 
After the prisoner's bloody weapon and coat had been produced he was committed . 
CHAPTER LIII The Dylluan The Oldest Creatures . 
The nights were generally less rainy than the days , and sometimes by the pallid glimmer of the moon I would take a stroll along some favourite path or road . 
When I heard the owl's cry in the groves of Pen y Coed that tale rushed into my mind . 
The reader will perhaps be obliged by my relating it . 
The eagle of the alder grove , after being long married and having had many children by his mate , lost her by death , and became a widower . 
First he went to the stag of Ferny side Brae , whom he found sitting by the old stump of an oak , and inquired the age of the owl . 
However , there is one older than myself , and that is the salmon trout of Glyn Llifon . 
Away went the eagle to Cilgwry , and found the ousel standing upon a little rock , and asked him the age of the owl . 
However , there is one older than I , and that is the toad of Cors Fochnod and unless he knows her age no one knows it . 
CHAPTER LIV Chirk The Middleton Family Castell y Waen The Park The Court Yard The Young Housekeeper The Portraits Melin y Castell Humble Meal Fine Chests for the Dead Hales and Hercules . 
THE weather having become fine , myself and family determined to go and see Chirk Castle , a mansion ancient and beautiful , and abounding with all kinds of agreeable and romantic associations . 
There are two roads from Llangollen to Chirk , one the low or post road , and the other leading over the Berwyn . 
We passed by the Yew Cottage , which I have described on a former occasion , and began to ascend the mountain , making towards its north eastern corner . 
Near the top of the mountain were three lofty beech trees growing on the very verge of the precipice . 
Here the road for about twenty yards is fenced on its dangerous side by a wall , parts of which are built between the stems of the trees . 
Just beyond the wall a truly noble prospect presented itself to our eyes . 
To the north were bold hills , their sides and skirts adorned with numerous woods and white farm houses a thousand feet below us was the Dee and its wondrous Pont y Cysultau . 
We saw fields and inclosures , and here and there corn stacks , some made , and others not yet completed , about which people were employed , and waggons and horses moving . 
Passing over the top of the hill , we began to descend the southern side , which was far less steep than the one we had lately surmounted . 
After a little way , the road descended through a wood , which John Jones told us was the beginning of the Park of Biddulph . 
The scenery was now very lovely , consisting of a mixture of hill and dale , open space and forest , in fact the best kind of park scenery . 
A noble edifice it looked , and to my eye bore no slight resemblance to Windsor Castle . 
The southern side had a far more antique appearance than the western huge towers with small windows , and partly covered with ivy , frowned down upon us . 
As the sun was hot , we took refuge from it under the gateway , the gate of which , at the further end , towards the park , was closed . 
As my two loved ones sat , I walked up and down , recalling to my mind all I had heard and read in connection with this castle . 
At last we were told that she housekeeper was waiting for us . 
The housekeeper , who was a genteel , good looking young woman , welcomed us at the door which led into the interior of the house . 
The floor was of oak , and so polished and slippery , that walking upon it was attended with some danger . 
I am speaking to him in my native language , said the young housekeeper , with another smile and if he has no English , I have no Welsh . 
Then you are English ? said I. Yes , she replied , a native of London . 
I then told John Jones the condition on which he might attend us , whereupon he took off his shoes with great glee and attended us , holding them in his hand . 
Here , on canvas , was noble Mary , the wife of William of Orange , and her consort by her side , whose part like a true wife she always took . 
Here was wretched Mary of Scotland , the murderess of her own lord . 
Many were the rooms which we entered , of which I shall say nothing , save that they were noble in size and rich in objects of interest . 
At last we came to what was called the picture gallery . 
It was a long panelled room , extending nearly the whole length of the northern side . 
Against every panel was a portrait amongst others was that of Sir Thomas Middleton , the stout governor of the castle , during the time of the siege . 
Near to it was the portrait of his rib , Dame Middleton . 
Farther down on the same side were two portraits of Nell Gwynn the one painted when she was a girl the other when she had attained a more mature age . 
They were both by Lely , the Apelles of the Court of wanton Charles . 
On the other side was one of the Duke of Gloucester , the son of Queen Anne , who , had he lived , would have kept the Georges from the throne . 
This room , which was perhaps the most magnificent in the castle , was the last we visited . 
When we left the castle we all said , not excepting John Jones , that we had never seen in our lives anything more princely and delightful than the interior . 
After a little time , my wife and daughter complaining of being rather faint , I asked John Jones whether there was an inn in the neighbourhood where some refreshment could be procured . 
He said there was , and that he would conduct us to it . 
We soon came to the verge of a steep descent , down which we went , not without some risk of falling . 
At last we came to a gate it was locked however , on John Jones shouting , an elderly man with his right hand bandaged , came and opened it . 
I asked him what was the matter with his hand , and he told me that he had lately lost three fingers whilst working at a saw mill up at the castle . 
I ordered some ale and bread and butter , and whilst our repast was being got ready John Jones and I went to the bridge . 
As soon as you are over this bridge you are in shire Amwythig , which the Saxons call Shropshire . 
A little way up on yon hill is Clawdd Offa or Offa's dyke , built of old by the Brenin Offa in order to keep us poor Welsh within our bounds . 
As we stood on the bridge I inquired of Jones the name of the brook which was running merrily beneath it . 
The Ceiriog , sir , said John , the same river that we saw at Pont y Meibion . 
A good penill that , sir , said John Jones . 
Pity that the halls of great people no longer flow with rivers of beer , nor have mountains of bread and beef for all comers . 
No pity at all , said I things are better as they are . 
We sat down , John Jones with us , and proceeded to despatch our bread and butter and ale . 
The bread and butter were good enough , but the ale poorish . 
We strolled towards the north along the base of the hill . 
The imagination of man can scarcely conceive a scene more beautiful than the one which we were now enjoying . 
We had again got very near the castle , when John Jones told me that if we would follow him he would show us something very remarkable I asked him what it was . 
Llun Cawr , he replied . 
The figure of a giant . 
What giant ? said I. But on this point he could give me no information . 
I told my wife and daughter what he had said , and finding that they wished to see the figure , I bade John Jones lead us to it . 
Oh , how sad and mournful I became ! I soon comforted myself , however , by reflecting that such is the will of Heaven , and that Heaven is good . 
After we had descended the avenue some way John Jones began to look about him , and getting on the bank on the left side disappeared . 
We went on , and in a little time saw him again beckoning to us some way farther down , but still on the bank . 
When we drew nigh to him he bade us get on the bank we did so and followed him some way , midst furze and lyng . 
All of a sudden he exclaimed , There it is ! We looked and saw a large figure standing on a pedestal . 
We felt rather disappointed , as we expected that it would have turned out to be the figure of some huge Welsh champion of old . 
We , however , said nothing to our guide . 
I told him that in my country , the eastern part of Lloegr , I had seen a man quite as tall as the statue . 
When John Jones got down he asked me who the man was whom the statue was intended to represent . 
Erchwl , I replied , a mighty man of old , who with club cleared the country of thieves , serpents , and monsters . 
We followed his advice and passing by the front of the castle northwards soon came to the lodge . 
The lodge had nothing remarkable in its appearance , but the gate which was of iron was truly magnificent . 
On the top were two figures of wolves which John Jones supposed to be those of foxes . 
The wolf of Chirk is a Cambrian not a Gothic wolf , and though a wolf of battle , is the wolf not of Biddulph but of Ryred . 
CHAPTER LV A Visitor Apprenticeship to the Law Croch Daranau Lope de Vega No Life like the Traveller's . 
ONE morning as I sat alone a gentleman was announced . 
He was a stout , strong made man , somewhat under the middle height , with a ruddy face , and very clear , grey eyes . 
On my asking him his reason for that desire he told me that it proceeded from his having read a book of mine about Spain , which had much interested him . 
Good , said I , you can't give an author a better reason for coming to see him than being pleased with his book . 
I assure you that you are most welcome . 
After a little general discourse I said that I presumed he was in the law . 
Yes , said he , I am a member of that much abused profession . 
And unjustly abused , said I it is a profession which abounds with honourable men , and in which I believe there are fewer scamps than in any other . 
The most honourable men I have ever known have been lawyers they were men whose word was their bond , and who would have preferred ruin to breaking it . 
There was my old master , in particular , who would have died sooner than broken his word . 
God bless him ! I think I see him now with his bald , shining pate , and his finger on an open page of 'Preston's Conveyancing . 
Sure you are not a limb of the law ? said Mr R . 
No , said I , but I might be , for I served an apprenticeship to it . 
I am glad to hear it , said Mr R , shaking me by the hand . 
Take my advice , come and settle at Llangollen and be my partner . 
If I did , said I , I am afraid that our partnership would be of short duration you would find me too eccentric and flighty for the law . 
Have you a good practice ? I demanded after a pause . 
I have no reason to complain of it , said he , with a contented air . 
I suppose you are married ? said I. Oh yes , said he , I have both a wife and family . 
A native of Llangollen ? said I. No , said he I was born at Llan Silin , a place some way off across the Berwyn . 
Llan Silin ? said I , I have a great desire to visit it some day or other . 
Why so ? said he , it offers nothing interesting . 
I beg your pardon , said I unless I am much mistaken , the tomb of the great poet Huw Morris is in Llan Silin churchyard . 
How very extraordinary , said he well , you are quite right about his tomb when a boy I have played dozens of times on the flat stone with my schoolfellows . 
I asked him whether he had seen Owen Pugh's translation of Paradise Lost . 
The rendering of Milton's And on their hinges grate Harsh thunder . 
No , said I , I am not . 
As soon as ever I learn where his grave is I shall assuredly make a pilgrimage to it . 
Mr R then asked me a good many questions about Spain , and a certain singular race of people about whom I have written a good deal . 
Let him come by all means , said I I shall never look upon a visit from a friend of yours in the light of an intrusion . 
In a few days came his friend , a fine tall athletic man of about forty . 
You are no Welshman , said I , as I looked at him . 
No , said he , I am a native of Lincolnshire , but I have resided in Llangollen for thirteen years . 
In what capacity ? said I. In the wine trade , said he . 
Instead of coming to Llangollen , said I , and entering into the wine trade , you should have gone to London , and enlisted into the Life Guards . 
Well , said he , with a smile , I had once or twice thought of doing so . 
However , fate brought me to Llangollen , and I am not sorry that she did , for I have done very well here . 
I soon found out that he was a well read and indeed highly accomplished man . 
Like his friend R , Mr J asked me a great many questions about Spain . 
By degrees we got on the subject of Spanish literature . 
I said that the literature of Spain was a first rate literature , but that it was not very extensive . 
He asked me whether I did not think that Lope de Vega was much overrated . 
Not a bit , said I Lope de Vega was one of the greatest geniuses that ever lived . 
I complied , and as he showed me about he told me his history in nearly the following words I am a Devonian by birth . 
For many years I served a travelling gentleman , whom I accompanied in all his wanderings . 
I have been five times across the Alps , and in every capital of Europe . 
Here I have lived for several years , receiving strangers , and improving my house and grounds . 
I am tolerably comfortable , but confess I sometimes look back to my former roving life rather wistfully , for there is no life so merry as the traveller's . 
He was about the middle age and somewhat under the middle size . 
I had a good deal of conversation with him , and was much struck with his frank , straightforward manner . 
He enjoyed a high character at Llangollen for probity and likewise for cleverness , being reckoned an excellent gardener , and an almost unequalled cook . 
Such retired gentlemen's servants , or such publicans either , as honest A , are not every day to be found . 
His grounds , principally laid out by his own hands , exhibited an infinity of taste , and his house , into which I looked , was a perfect picture of neatness . 
Any tourist visiting Llangollen for a short period could do no better than take up his abode at the hostelry of honest A . 
CHAPTER LVI Ringing of Bells Battle of Alma The Brown Jug Ale of Llangollen Reverses . 
Presently we observed a postman hurrying in a cart from the direction of the town . 
Peth yw y matter ? said John Jones . 
Y matter , y matter ! said the postman in a tone of exultation , Sebastopol wedi cymmeryd . 
Hurrah ! What does he say ? said my wife anxiously to me . 
Hurrah ! We reached our dwelling . 
My wife and daughter went in . 
John Jones betook himself to his cottage , and I went into the town , in which there was a great excitement a wild running troop of boys were shouting Sebastopol wedi cymmeryd . 
Hurrah ! Hurrah ! Old Mr Jones was standing bare headed at his door . 
Ah , said the old gentleman , I am glad to see you . 
Let us congratulate each other , he added , shaking me by the hand . 
Sebastopol taken , and in so short a time . 
How fortunate ! Fortunate indeed , said I , returning his hearty shake I only hope it may be true . 
Oh , there can be no doubt of its being true , said the old gentleman . 
The accounts are most positive . 
Come in , and I will tell you all the circumstances . 
I followed him into his little back parlour , where we both sat down . 
Now , said the old church clerk , I will tell you all about it . 
The allies landed about twenty miles from Sebastopol and proceeded to march against it . 
When nearly half way they found the Russians posted on a hill . 
Their position was naturally very strong , and they had made it more so by means of redoubts and trenches . 
And what do you think ? The Welsh highly distinguished themselves . 
The Welsh fusileers were the first to mount the hill . 
They suffered horribly indeed almost the whole regiment was cut to pieces but what of that ? they showed that the courage of the Ancient Britons still survives in their descendants . 
And now I intend to stand beverage . 
I assure you I do . 
No words ! I insist upon it . 
I have heard you say you are fond of good ale , and I intend to fetch you a pint of such ale as I am sure you never drank in your life . 
Thereupon he hurried out of the room , and through the shop into the street . 
Why , the Russians retreat like the wind , and have a thousand ruses at command , in order to retard an enemy . 
I suppose , however , that both they and their commander were spurred on by the active French . 
Presently the old church clerk made his appearance with a glass in one hand , and a brown jug of ale in the other . 
Here , said he , filling the glass , is some of the real Llangollen ale . 
I got it from the little inn , the Eagle , over the way , which was always celebrated for its ale . 
I told them , however , it was for a gentleman , a friend of mine , whom I wished to treat in honour of the fall of Sebastopol . 
I would fain have excused myself , but the old gentleman insisted on my drinking . 
Well , said I , taking the glass , thank God that our gloomy forebodings are not likely to be realised . 
Ah ! said the old church clerk , I see you like it , for you have emptied the glass at a draught . 
However , I'll trouble you for another glass . 
Oh ho , you will , said the old gentleman that's enough if you did not think it first rate , you would not ask for more . 
You must , however , take care how much you take of it . 
Only a few glasses will make you dispute with your friends , and a few more quarrel with them . 
Welsh and Saxons together will conquer the world ! shouted brats , as they stood barefooted in the kennel . 
In a little time , however , news not quite so cheering arrived . 
In a word , all had happened which the writer , from his knowledge of the Russians and his own countrymen , had conceived likely to happen from the beginning . 
But the subject is a disagreeable one , and the writer will dismiss it after a few brief words . 
It was quite right and consistent with the justice of God that the British arms should be subjected to disaster and ignominy about that period . 
He died last Tuesday week after a short illness , for he preached in his church at the previous Sunday . 
Poor man ! said my wife . 
How sorry I am to hear of his death ! However , he died in the fulness of years , after a long and exemplary life . 
He was an excellent man and good Christian shepherd . 
I knew him well you I think only saw him once . 
But I shall never forget him , said I , nor how animated his features became when I talked to him about Wales , for he , you know , was a Welshman . 
I forgot to ask what part of Wales he came from . 
I suppose I shall never know now . 
I purposed going by a path under the Eglwysig crags which I had heard led thither , and to return by the monastery . 
The day was dull and gloomy . 
Crossing the canal I pursued my course by romantic lanes till I found myself under the crags . 
The rocky ridge here turns away to the north , having previously run from the east to the west . 
After proceeding nearly a mile amidst very beautiful scenery , I came to a farm yard where I saw several men engaged in repairing a building . 
This farm yard was in a very sequestered situation a hill overhung it on the west , half way up whose side stood a farm house to which it probably pertained . 
On the north west was a most romantic hill covered with wood to the very top . 
A wild valley led , I knew not whither , to the north between crags and the wood covered hill . 
Going up to a man of respectable appearance , who seemed to be superintending the others , I asked him in English the way to Pentre y Dwr . 
He replied that I must follow the path up the hill towards the house , behind which I should find a road which would lead me through the wood to Pentre Dwr . 
As he spoke very good English , I asked him where he had learnt it . 
Chiefly in South Wales , said he , where they speak less Welsh than here . 
I gathered from him that he lived in the house on the hill and was a farmer . 
I asked him to what place the road up the valley to the north led . 
We generally go by that road to Wrexham , he replied it is a short but a wild road through the hills . 
After a little discourse on the times , which he told me were not quite so bad for farmers as they had been , I bade him farewell . 
Mounting the hill I passed round the house , as the farmer had directed me , and turned to the west along a path on the side of the mountain . 
A deep valley was on my left , and on my right above me a thick wood , principally of oak . 
About a mile further on the path winded down a descent , at the bottom of which I saw a brook and a number of cottages beyond it . 
I passed over the brook by means of a long slab laid across , and reached the cottages . 
Coming to a cottage I saw a woman , to all appearance very old , standing by the door , and asked her in Welsh where I was . 
In Pentre Dwr , said she . 
This house , and those yonder , pointing to the cottages past which I had come , are Pentre y Dwr . 
There is , however , another Pentre Dwr up the glen yonder , said she , pointing towards the north which is called Pentre Dwr uchaf this is Pentre Dwr isaf . 
Is it called Pentre Dwr , said I , because of the water of the brook ? Likely enough , said she , but I never thought of the matter before . 
She was blear eyed , and her skin , which seemed drawn tight over her forehead and cheek bones , was of the colour of parchment . 
I asked her how old she was . 
Fifteen after three twenties , she replied meaning that she was seventy five . 
From her appearance I should almost have guessed that she had been fifteen after four twenties . 
I , however , did not tell her so , for I am always cautious not to hurt the feelings of anybody , especially of the aged . 
Continuing my way I soon overtook a man driving five or six very large hogs . 
One of these which was muzzled was of a truly immense size , and walked with considerable difficulty on account of its fatness . 
I walked for some time by the side of the noble porker , admiring it . 
From the conversation which ensued between the two men I found that the driver was the servant and the other the master . 
Those hogs are too fat to drive along the road , said I at last to the latter . 
We brought them in a cart as far as the Pentre Dwr , said the man on horseback , but as they did not like the jolting we took them out . 
And where are you taking them to ? said . 
I. To Llangollen , said the man , for the fair on Monday . 
What does that big fellow weigh ? said I , pointing to the largest hog . 
He'll weigh about eighteen score , said the man . 
What do you mean by eighteen score ? said I. Eighteen score of pounds , said the man . 
And how much do you expect to get for him ? Eight pounds I shan't take less . 
And who will buy him ? said I. Some gent from Wolverhampton or about there , said the man there will be plenty of gents from Wolverhampton at the fair . 
And what do you fatten your hogs upon ? said I. Oatmeal , said the man . 
And why not on barley meal ? Oatmeal is the best , said the man the gents from Wolverhampton prefer them fattened on oatmeal . 
I understand a thing or two , said I , but I am not in the trade . 
Do you come from far ? From Llandeglo , said the man . 
Are you a hog merchant ? said I. Yes , said he , and a horse dealer , and a farmer , though rather a small one . 
I suppose as you are a horse dealer , said I , you travel much about ? Yes , said the man I have travelled a good deal about Wales and England . 
Have you been in Ynys Fon ? said I. I see you are a Welshman , said the man . 
No , said I , but I know a little Welsh . 
Ynys Fon ! said the man . 
Yes , I have been in Anglesey more times than I can tell . 
Do you know Hugh Pritchard , said I , who lives at Pentraeth Coch ? I know him well , said the man , and an honest fellow he is . 
And Mr Bos ? said I. What Bos ? said he . 
Do you mean a lusty , red faced man in top boots and grey coat ? That's he , said I. He's a clever one , said the man . 
I suppose by your knowing these people you are a drover or a horse dealer . 
Yes , said he , turning half round in his saddle and looking at me , you are a horse dealer . 
I remember you well now , and once sold a horse to you at Chelmsford . 
I am no horse dealer , said I , nor did I ever buy a horse at Chelmsford . 
I see you have been about England . 
Have you ever been in Norfolk or Suffolk ? No , said the man , but I know something of Suffolk . 
I have an uncle there . 
Whereabouts in Suffolk ? said I. At a place called , said the man . 
In what line of business ? said I. In none at all he is a clergyman . 
Shall I tell you his name ? said I. It is not likely you should know his name , said the man . 
Nevertheless , said I , I will tell it you his name was Well , said the man , sure enough that is his name . 
It was his name , said I , but I am sorry to tell you he is no more . 
He died last Tuesday week and was probably buried last Monday . 
An excellent man was Dr . 
H. O. A credit to his country and to his order . 
I am no clergyman , said I , but I knew your uncle and prized him . 
CHAPTER LVIII Sunday Night Sleep , Sin , and Old Age The Dream Lanikin Figure A Literary Purchase . 
THE Sunday morning was a gloomy one . 
I attended service at church with my family . 
The service was in English , and the younger Mr E preached . 
The text I have forgotten , but I remember perfectly well that the sermon was scriptural and elegant . 
When we came out the rain was falling in torrents . 
Neither I nor my family went to church in the afternoon . 
I however attended the evening service which is always in Welsh . 
The elder Mr E preached . 
This saying holds sometimes good with respect to sleep and old age , but never with respect to sin . 
One enormous fellow particularly caught my notice . 
I guessed he must have weighed eleven score , he had a half ruddy , half tallowy face , brown hair , and rather thin whiskers . 
The day of the fair was dull and gloomy , an exact counterpart of the previous Saturday . 
After sauntering about a little time I returned home . 
By a stall on which were some poor legs and shoulders of mutton I perceived the English butcher , whom the Welsh one had attempted to slaughter . 
I recognised him by a patch which he wore on his cheek . 
My wife and I went up and inquired how he was . 
He said that he still felt poorly , but that he hoped he should get round . 
I asked him if he remembered me and received for answer that he remembered having seen me when the examination took place into his matter . 
I then inquired what had become of his antagonist and was told that he was in prison awaiting his trial . 
He was a tall lanikin figure with a pair of large , lack lustre staring eyes , and upon the whole appeared to be good for very little . 
They were chiefly in Welsh . 
Seeing a kind of chap book , which bore on its title page the name of Twm O'r Nant , I took it up . 
It was called Y Llwyn Celyn or the Holy Grove , and contained the life and one of the interludes of Tom O' the Dingle or Thomas Edwards . 
It purported to be the first of four numbers , each of which amongst other things was to contain one of his interludes . 
The price , of the number was one shilling . 
I questioned the man of the stall about the other numbers , but found that this was the only one which he possessed . 
Eager , however , to read an interlude of the celebrated Tom , I purchased it and turned away from the stall . 
Scarcely had I done so when I saw a wild looking woman with two wild children looking at me . 
The woman curtseyed to me , and I thought I recognised the elder of the two Irish females whom I had seen in the tent on the green meadow near Chester . 
I was thinking of going to look for her up Paddy's dingle , but my wife meeting me , begged me to go home with her , as it was getting late . 
So I went home with my better half , bearing my late literary acquisition in my hand . 
I AM the first born of my parents , says Thomas Edwards . 
They were poor people and very ignorant . 
I was brought into the world in a place called Lower Pen Parchell , on land which once belonged to the celebrated Iolo Goch . 
near Nantglyn , situated in a place called Coom Pernant . 
He copied out a great many carols and songs , and the neighbours observing his fondness for learning persuaded his father to allow him to go to the village school to learn English . 
Nevertheless Tom would not give up his literary pursuits , but continued scribbling , and copying out songs and carols . 
He was nicknamed Tum Tai of the Moor . 
However , I had the honour of being secretary to the old poet . 
When he had made a song he would keep it in his memory till I came to him . 
It was then the custom for young lads to go about playing what were called interludes , namely dramatic pieces on religious or moral subjects , written by rustic poets . 
This at the heel of other things would have induced me to give up poetry , had it been in the power of anything to do so . 
My parents often told me I should have some mischief done me if I went on in the way in which I was going . 
I said in discourse that they were the cocks of Ty Celyn . 
The girl heard me , and conceived a spite against me on account of my scurrilous language . 
She had a brother , who was a cruel fighter he took the part of his sister , and determined to chastise me . 
After we had taunted each other for some time , as we went along , he flung his stick on the ground , and stripped himself stark naked . 
After fighting some time , our sticks were shivered to pieces and quite short sometimes we were upon the ground , but did not give up fighting on that account . 
Many people came up and would fain have parted us , but he would by no means let them . 
At last we agreed to go and pull fresh stakes , and then we went at it again until he could no longer stand . 
The marks of this battle are upon him and me to this day . 
At last , covered with a gore of blood , he was dragged home by his neighbours . 
He was in a dreadful condition , and many thought he would die . 
On the morrow there came an alarm that he was dead , whereupon I escaped across the mountain to Pentre y Foelas to the old man Sion Dafydd to read his old books . 
The young couple settled down on a little place near the town of Denbigh , called Ale Fowlio . 
They kept three cows and four horses . 
He listened to her advice and took her with him . 
Now this was the first hooking of horses to the rope of the crane which was ever done either in Wales or England . 
Subsequently I had plenty of leisure and rest instead of toiling amidst other carriers . 
Leaving Ale Fowlio he took up his abode nearer to Denbigh , and continued carrying wood . 
He , however , got bail , and partly by carrying and partly by playing interludes , soon raised money enough to pay his debt . 
He then made another interlude , called Riches and Poverty , by which he gained a great deal of money . 
After he had made all that he could by acting these pieces he printed them . 
When printed they had a considerable sale , and Tom was soon able to set up again as a carter . 
He first became bail for him , and subsequently made himself answerable for the amount of a bill , due by his uncle to a lawyer . 
His becoming answerable for the bill nearly proved the utter ruin of our hero . 
His uncle failed , and left him to pay it . 
The lawyer took out a writ against him . 
The lawyer , however , soon got information of his whereabouts , and threatened to arrest him . 
But the old cancer still followed him , and his horses were seized for the debt . 
Many strange adventures occurred to Tom in South Wales , but those which befell him whilst officiating as a turnpike keeper were certainly the most extraordinary . 
Then I saw a funeral of the same character , for all the world like a real funeral there was the bier and the black drapery . 
I have seen more than one . 
If a young man was to be buried there would be a white sheet , or something that looked like one and sometimes I have seen a flaring candle going past . 
Once a traveller passing through the gate called out to me 'Look ! yonder is a corpse candle coming through the fields beside the highway . 
So we paid attention to it as it moved , making apparently towards the church from the other side . 
Sometimes it would be quite near the road , another time some way into the fields . 
Now this is the truth of the matter . 
Many wonderful feats did Tom perform connected with loading and carrying , which acquired for him the reputation of being the best wood carter of the south . 
His dexterity at moving huge bodies was probably never equalled . 
Robinson Crusoe was not half so handy . 
Only see how he moved a ship into the water , which a multitude of people were unable to do . 
I myself went on carrying wood as usual . 
Four hogsheads of ale were broached , a great oven full of bread was baked , plenty of cheese and butter bought , and meat cooked for the more respectable people . 
I had been loading in the wood that day , and sending the team forward , I went to see the business and a pretty piece of business it turned out . 
All the food was eaten , the drink swallowed to the last drop , the ship drawn about three roods , and then left in a deep ditch . 
I did come with the lad and four horses . 
I went before the team , and set the men to work to break a hole through a great old wall , which stood as it were before the ship . 
We then laid a piece of timber across the hole from which was a chain , to which the tackle , that is the rope and pulleys , was hooked . 
We then hooked one end of the rope to the ship , and set the horses to pull at the other . 
So from tree to post it got down to the river in a few days . 
I was promised noble wages by the merchant , but I never got anything from him but promises and praises . 
Some people came to look at us , and gave us money to get ale , and that was all . 
The merchant subsequently turned out a very great knave , cheating Tom on various occasions , and finally broke very much in his debt . 
Tom was obliged to sell off everything , and left South Wales without horses or waggon his old friend the Muse , however , stood him in good stead . 
I likewise busied myself in getting subscribers to a book of songs called the 'Garden of Minstrelsy . 
It was printed at Trefecca . 
The expense attending the printing amounted to fifty two pounds , but I was fortunate enough to dispose of two thousand copies . 
The poet's daughters were not successful in the tavern speculation at Llandeilo , and followed their father into North Wales . 
The second he apprenticed to a milliner , the other two lived with him till the day of his death . 
He settled at Denbigh in a small house which he was enabled to furnish by means of two or three small sums which he recovered for work done a long time before . 
Shortly after his return , his father died , and the lawyer seized the little property for the old curse , and turned Tom's mother out . 
After his return from the South Tom went about for some time playing interludes , and then turned his hand to many things . 
He learnt the trade of stonemason , took jobs , and kept workmen . 
He then went amongst certain bricklayers , and induced them to teach him their craft and shortly , as he says , became a very lion at bricklaying . 
I answered that in my opinion I was not a bit weaker than I was then . 
Now it happened that at the moment we were talking there were some sacks of wheat in the hall which were going to Chester by the carrier's waggon . 
Another time when I was at Chester I lifted a barrel of porter from the street to the hinder part of the waggon solely by strength of back and arms . 
He was once run over by a loaded waggon , but strange to say escaped without the slightest injury . 
Towards the close of his life he had strong religious convictions , and felt a loathing for the sins which he had committed . 
He died in the year , at the age of , shortly after the death of his wife , who seems to have been a faithful , loving partner . 
By her side he was buried in the earth of the graveyard of the White Church , near Denbigh . 
CHAPTER LX Mystery Plays The Two Prime Opponents Analysis of Interlude Riches and Poverty Tom's Grand Qualities . 
It is difficult to say with anything like certainty what is the meaning of the word interlude . 
Long , however , before the time of this Ranald Mysteries had been composed and represented both in Italy and France . 
The Mysteries were very rude compositions , little more , as Warton says , than literal representations of portions of Scripture . 
They derived their name of Mysteries from being generally founded on the more mysterious parts of Holy Writ , for example the Incarnation , the Atonement , and the Resurrection . 
The Moralities displayed something more of art and invention than the Mysteries in them virtues , vices and qualities were personified , and something like a plot was frequently to be discovered . 
They were termed Moralities because each had its moral , which was spoken at the end of the piece by a person called the Doctor . 
Much that has been said about the moralities holds good with respect to the interludes . 
Indeed , for some time dramatic pieces were called moralities and interludes indifferently . 
In both there is a mixture of allegory and reality . 
The latter interludes , however , display more of every day life than was ever observable in the moralities and more closely approximate to modern plays . 
Both of these writers flourished about the same period , and made use of the interlude as a means of satirizing the vices of the popish clergy . 
In the time of Charles the First the interlude went much out of fashion in England in fact , the play or regular drama had superseded it . 
In Wales , however , it continued to the beginning of the present century , when it yielded to the influence of Methodism . 
Of all Welsh interlude composers Twm O'r Nant or Tom of the Dingle was the most famous . 
Here follows the promised analysis of his Riches and Poverty . 
The entire title of the interlude is to this effect . 
The two prime opponents Riches and Poverty . 
First of all enter Fool , Sir Jemant Wamal , who in rather a foolish speech tells the audience that they are about to hear a piece composed by Tom the poet . 
Then appears Howel Tightbelly , the miser , who in capital verse , with very considerable glee and exultation , gives an account of his manifold rascalities . 
Then comes his wife , Esther Steady , home from the market , between whom and her husband there is a pithy dialogue . 
Captain Riches and Captain Poverty then meet , without rancour , however , and have a long discourse about the providence of God , whose agents they own themselves to be . 
Enter again the Miser along with poor Lowry , who asks the Miser for meal and other articles , but gets nothing but threatening language . 
There is then a very edifying dialogue between Mr Contemplation and Mr Truth , who , when they retire , are succeeded on the stage by the Miser and John the Tavern keeper . 
The publican owes the Miser money , and begs that he will be merciful to him . 
The Miser , however , swears that he will be satisfied with nothing but bond and judgment on his effects . 
Death hauls the Miser away , and then appears the Fool to moralise and dismiss the audience . 
The appropriate explanations mentioned in the title are given in various songs which the various characters sing after describing themselves , or after dialogues with each other . 
The announcement that the whole exposition , etc . 
The work of His hands , when completed , He view'd , And saw and pronounc'd that 'twas seemly and good . 
And as in their creation distinction there's none 'Twixt man and the world , so the Infinite One Unto man a clear wisdom did bounteously give The nature of everything to perceive . 
Now I beg you the sun and the moon to behold , The one that's so bright and the other so cold . 
And say if two things in creation there be Better emblems of Riches and Poverty . 
The sun doth uplift his magnificent head , And illumines the moon , which were otherwise dead , Even as Wealth from its station on high , Giveth work and provision to Poverty . 
CHAPTER LXI Set out for Wrexham Craig y Forwyn Uncertainty The Collier Cadogan Hall Methodistical Volume . 
HAVING learnt from a newspaper that a Welsh book on Welsh Methodism had been just published at Wrexham , I determined to walk to that place and purchase it . 
The day was gloomy , with some tendency to rain . 
I passed under the hill of Dinas Bran . 
About a furlong from its western base I turned round and surveyed it and perhaps the best view of the noble mountain is to be obtained from the place where I turned round . 
I proceeded on my way , all was wild and solitary , and the yellow leaves were falling from the trees of the groves . 
A torrent , rushing down from the north , was on my right . 
It soon began to drizzle , and mist so filled the glen that I could only distinguish objects a short way before me , and on either side . 
I wandered on a considerable way , crossing the torrent several times by rustic bridges . 
I passed two lone farm houses and at last saw another on my left hand . 
Seeing a respectable looking man near the house I went up to him . 
Am I in the right way to Wrexham ? said I , addressing him in English . 
You can get to Wrexham this way , sir , he replied . 
Can you tell me the name of that crag ? said I , pointing to the large one . 
That crag , sir , is called Craig y Forwyn . 
And what is the name of this house ? said I. This house , sir , is called Plas Uchaf . 
Middle place and lower place , said I. It is very odd that I know in England three people who derive their names from places so situated . 
One is Houghton , another Middleton , and the third Lowdon in modern English , Hightown , Middletown , and Lowtown . 
You appear to be a person of great intelligence , sir . 
No , I am not but I am rather fond of analysing words , particularly the names of persons and places . 
Is the road to Wrexham hard to find ? Not very , sir that is , in the day time . 
Do you live at Wrexham ? No , I replied , I am stopping at Llangollen . 
But you won't return there to night ? Oh yes , I shall ! By this road ? No , by the common road . 
This is not a road to travel by night . 
Nor is the common road , sir , for a respectable person on foot that is , on a Saturday night . 
You will perhaps meet drunken colliers who may knock you down . 
I will take my chance for that , said I , and bade him farewell . 
I entered the pass , passing under the strange looking crag . 
After I had walked about half a mile the pass widened considerably and a little way further on debauched on some wild moory ground . 
Here the road became very indistinct . 
At length I stopped in a state of uncertainty . 
A well defined path presented itself , leading to the east , whilst northward before me there seemed scarcely any path at all . 
After some hesitation I turned to the east by the well defined path , and by so doing went wrong , as I soon found . 
I mounted the side of a brown hill covered with moss like grass , and here and there heather . 
By the time I arrived at the top of the hill the sun shone out , and I saw Rhiwabon and Cefn Mawr before me in the distance . 
I am going wrong , said I I should have kept on due north . 
However , I will not go back , but will steeple chase it across the country to Wrexham , which must be towards the north east . 
At the door of the first I saw a girl . 
I spoke to her in Welsh , and found she had little or none . 
I passed on , and seeing the door of a cabin open I looked in and saw no adult person , but several grimy but chubby children . 
I spoke to them in English , and found they could only speak Welsh . 
Presently I observed a robust woman advancing towards me she was barefooted and bore on her head an immense lump of coal . 
I spoke to her in Welsh , and found she could only speak English . 
Truly , said I to myself , I am on the borders . 
I asked him in Welsh if I was in the right direction for Wrexham , he answered in a surly manner in English , that I was . 
I again spoke to him in Welsh , making some indifferent observation on the weather , and he answered in English yet more gruffly than before . 
All people are not equally clebber , said I , still speaking Welsh . 
Here I have had , said I to myself , as I proceeded on my way , to pay for the over praise which I lately received . 
A little over praise by a great deal of underrating a gleam of good fortune by a night of misery . 
The scenery now became very pretty hedge rows were on either side , a luxuriance of trees and plenty of green fields . 
I reached the bottom of the lane , beyond which I saw a strange looking house upon a slope on the right hand . 
It was very large , ruinous , and seemingly deserted . 
A little beyond it was a farm house , connected with which was a long row of farming buildings along the road side . 
And whom does it belong to ? said I. I don't know exactly , replied the woman , but Mr Morris at the farm holds it , and stows his things in it . 
Can you speak Welsh ? said I. No , said the woman , I are Welsh but have no Welsh language . 
Leaving the woman I put on my best speed and in about half an hour reached Wrexham . 
The first thing I did on my arrival was to go to the bookshop and purchase the Welsh Methodistic book . 
The evening was now beginning to set in , and feeling somewhat hungry I hurried off to the Wynstay Arms through streets crowded with market people . 
On arriving at the inn I entered the grand room and ordered dinner . 
He has been preaching amongst the hills don't you see his Bible ? Seating myself at a table I inspected the volume . 
And here perhaps the reader expects that I shall regale him with an analysis of the Methodistical volume at least as long as that of the life of Tom O' the Dingle . 
After dinner I called for half a pint of wine . 
Whilst I was trifling over it , a commercial traveller entered into conversation with me . 
After some time he asked me if I was going further that night . 
To Llangollen , said I. By the ten o'clock train ? said he . 
No , I replied , I'm going on foot . 
On foot ! said he I would not go on foot there this night for fifty pounds . 
Why not ? said I. For fear of being knocked down by the colliers , who will be all out and drunk . 
If not more than two attack me , said I , I shan't much mind . 
With this book I am sure I can knock down one , and I think I can find play for the other with my fists . 
The commercial traveller looked at me . 
A strange kind of Baptist minister , I thought I heard him say . 
CHAPTER LXII Rhiwabon Road The Public house Keeper No Welsh The Wrong Road The Good Wife . 
I PAID my reckoning and started . 
The night was now rapidly closing in . 
As I passed a red public house on my right hand , at the door of which stood several carts , a scream of Welsh issued from it . 
Let any Saxon , said I , who is fond of fighting and wishes for a bloody nose go in there . 
Coming to the small village about a mile from Rhiwabon , I felt thirsty , and seeing a public house , in which all seemed to be quiet , I went in . 
A thick set man with a pipe in his mouth sat in the tap room , and also a woman . 
Where is the landlord ? said I. I am the landlord , said the man , huskily . 
What do you want ? A pint of ale , said I. The man got up and with his pipe in his mouth went staggering out of the room . 
I put down three pence on the table . 
I tasted the ale which was very good , then turning to the woman who seemed about three and twenty and was rather good looking , I spoke to her in Welsh . 
I have no Welsh , sir , said she . 
How is that ? said I this village is I think in the Welshery . 
It is , said she , but I am from Shropshire . 
Won't you take a glass of ale first ? said I , offering to fill a glass which stood on the table . 
No , said she I am the worst in the world for a glass of ale and without saying anything more she departed . 
It was now quite night , and it would have been pitchy dark but for the glare of forges . 
There was an immense glare to the south west , which I conceived proceeded from those of Cefn Mawr . 
It lighted up the south western sky then there were two other glares nearer to me , seemingly divided by a lump of something , perhaps a grove of trees . 
Walking very fast I soon overtook a man . 
I knew him at once by his staggering gait . 
Ah , landlord ! said I whither bound ? To Rhiwabon , said he , huskily , for a pint . 
There are many in a higher station than you who act upon that principle , thought I to myself as I passed on . 
There was a prodigious noise in the public houses as I passed through it . 
Colliers carousing , said I. Well , I shall not go amongst them to preach temperance , though perhaps in strict duty I ought . 
At the end of the town , instead of taking the road on the left side of the church , I took that on the right . 
It was not till I had proceeded nearly a mile that I began to be apprehensive that I had mistaken the way . 
Hearing some people coming towards me on the road I waited till they came up they proved to be a man and a woman . 
About half way back I met a man who asked me in English where I was hurrying to . 
I said to Rhiwabon , in order to get to Llangollen . 
Well , then , said he , you need not return to Rhiwabon yonder is a short cut across the fields , and he pointed to a gate . 
I thanked him , and said I would go by it before leaving him I asked to what place the road led which I had been following . 
To Pentre Castren , he replied . 
I debauched upon the Llangollen road near to the tramway leading to the collieries . 
Two enormous sheets of flame shot up high into the air from ovens , illumining two spectral chimneys as high as steeples , also smoky buildings , and grimy figures moving about . 
There was a clanging of engines , a noise of shovels and a falling of coals truly horrible . 
The glare was so great that I could distinctly see the minutest lines upon my hand . 
Advancing along the tramway I obtained a nearer view of the hellish buildings , the chimneys , and the demoniac figures . 
It was just such a scene as one of those described by Ellis Wynn in his Vision of Hell . 
Feeling my eyes scorching I turned away , and proceeded towards Llangollen , sometimes on the muddy road , sometimes on the dangerous causeway . 
For three miles at least I met nobody . 
Near Llangollen , as I was walking on the causeway , three men came swiftly towards me . 
I kept the hedge , which was my right the two first brushed roughly past me , the third came full upon me and was tumbled into the road . 
There was a laugh from the two first and a loud curse from the last as he sprawled in the mire . 
My wife received me with a cheerful smile . 
I looked at her and the good wife of the Triad came to my mind . 
She is modest , void of deceit , and obedient . 
Pure of conscience , gracious of tongue , and true to her husband . 
Her heart not proud , her manners affable , and her bosom full of compassion for the poor . 
Labouring to be tidy , skilful of hand , and fond of praying to God . 
Her conversation amiable , her dress decent , and her house orderly . 
Quick of hand , quick of eye , and quick of understanding . 
Her person shapely , her manners agreeable , and her heart innocent . 
Her face benignant , her head intelligent , and provident . 
Neighbourly , gentle , and of a liberal way of thinking . 
Able in directing , providing what is wanting , and a good mother to her children . 
Loving her husband , loving peace , and loving God . 
Happy the man , adds the Triad , who possesses such a wife . 
CHAPTER LXIII Preparations for Departure Cat provided for A Pleasant Party Last Night at Llangollen . 
I WAS awakened early on the Sunday morning by the howling of wind . 
There was a considerable storm throughout the day , but unaccompanied by rain . 
I went to church both in the morning and the evening . 
The next day there was a great deal of rain . 
It was now the latter end of October winter was coming on , and my wife and daughter were anxious to return home . 
After some consultation it was agreed that they should depart for London , and that I should join them there after making a pedestrian tour in South Wales . 
We set about making the necessary preparations for our respective journeys . 
Those for mine were soon made . 
I bought a small leather satchel with a lock and key , in which I placed a white linen shirt , a pair of worsted stockings , a razor and a prayer book . 
His father had left Llangollen the day before for Chester , where he expected to be detained some days . 
I told him we should be most happy to come . 
He then asked me to take a walk . 
I agreed with pleasure , and we set out , intending to go to Llansilio at the western end of the valley and look at the church . 
The church was an ancient building . 
It had no spire , but had the little erection on its roof , so usual to Welsh churches , for holding a bell . 
In the churchyard is a tomb in which an old squire of the name of Jones was buried about the middle of the last century . 
There is a tradition about this squire and tomb to the following effect . 
After the squire's death there was a lawsuit about his property , in consequence of no will having been found . 
It was said that his will had been buried with him in the tomb , which after some time was opened , but with what success the tradition sayeth not . 
In the evening we went to the Vicarage . 
Besides the family and ourselves there was Mr R and one or two more . 
In the afternoon of Wednesday I went and took leave of certain friends in the town amongst others of old Mr Jones . 
On my telling him that I was about to leave Llangollen , he expressed considerable regret , but said that it was natural for me to wish to return to my native country . 
I told him that before returning to England I intended to make a pedestrian tour in South Wales . 
He then asked me which road I intended to take . 
I then asked him whether he had ever seen Sycharth and the Rhyadr he told me that he had never visited Sycharth , but had seen the Rhyadr more than once . 
He then smiled and said that there was a ludicrous anecdote connected with the Rhyadr , which he would relate to me . 
About half past eight o'clock at night John Jones came to bid me farewell . 
I bade him sit down , and sent for a pint of ale to regale him with . 
Notwithstanding the ale , he was very melancholy at the thought that I was about to leave Llangollen , probably never to return . 
To enliven him I gave him an account of my late expedition to Wrexham , which made him smile more than once . 
I was much diverted with this Welsh derivation of Wrexham , which I did not attempt to controvert . 
After we had had some further discourse John Jones got up , shook me by the hand , gave a sigh , wished me a taith hyfryd , and departed . 
Thus terminated my last day at Llangollen . 
CHAPTER LXIV Departure for South Wales Tregeiriog Pleasing Scene Trying to Read Garmon and Lupus The Cracked Voice Effect of a Compliment Llan Rhyadr . 
THE morning of the st of October was fine and cold there was a rime frost on the ground . 
At about eleven o'clock I started on my journey for South Wales , intending that my first stage should be Llan Rhyadr . 
My wife and daughter accompanied me as far as Plas Newydd . 
At the Plas Newydd I took an affectionate farewell of my two loved ones , and proceeded to ascend the Berwyn . 
Near the top I turned round to take a final look at the spot where I had lately passed many a happy hour . 
I sighed , and repeating Einion Du's verse Tangnefedd i Llangollen ! turned away . 
I went over the top of the hill and then began to descend its southern side , obtaining a distant view of the plains of Shropshire on the east . 
As I knew him to be of a rather sullen unsocial disposition , I said nothing to him , but proceeded on my way . 
As I advanced the valley widened , the hills on the west receding to some distance from the river . 
Came to Tregeiriog a small village , which takes its name from the brook Tregeiriog signifying the hamlet or village on the Ceiriog . 
Seeing a bridge which crossed the rivulet at a slight distance from the road , a little beyond the village , I turned aside to look at it . 
I reached Llanarmon , another small village , situated in a valley through which the Ceiriog or a river very similar to it flows . 
It is half way between Llangollen and Llan Rhyadr , being ten miles from each . 
I went to a small inn or public house , sat down and called for ale . 
A waggoner was seated at a large table with a newspaper before him on which he was intently staring . 
What news ? said I in English . 
I wish I could tell you , said he in very broken English , but I cannot read . 
Then why are you looking at the paper ? said I. Because , said he , by looking at the letters I hope in time to make them out . 
You may look at them , said I , for fifty years without being able to make out one . 
You should go to an evening school . 
I am too old , said he , to do so now if I did the children would laugh at me . 
Let me look at the paper , said I. He handed it to me . 
It was a Welsh paper , and full of dismal accounts from the seat of war . 
What news , mester ? said the waggoner . 
Nothing but bad , said I the Russians are beating us and the French too . 
If the Rusiaid beat us , said the waggoner , it is because the Francod are with us . 
We should have gone alone . 
Perhaps you are right , said I at any rate we could not have fared worse than we are faring now . 
I presently paid for what I had had , inquired the way to Llan Rhyadr , and departed . 
which runs through the valley . 
There are several churches dedicated to Garmon in Wales , but whether there are any dedicated to Lupus I am unable to say . 
After leaving Llanarmon I found myself amongst lumpy hills through which the road led in the direction of the south . 
Arriving where several roads met I followed one and became bewildered amidst hills and ravines . 
At last I saw a small house close by a nant or dingle , and turned towards it for the purpose of inquiring my way . 
On my knocking at the door a woman made her appearance , of whom I asked in Welsh whether I was in the road to Llan Rhyadr . 
She said that I was out of it , but that if I went towards the south I should see a path on my left which would bring me to it . 
I asked her how far it was to Llan Rhyadr . 
Four long miles , she replied . 
And what is the name of the place where we are now ? said I. Cae Hir , said she . 
Are you alone in the house ? said I. Quite alone , said she but my husband and people will soon be home from the field , for it is getting dusk . 
Have you any Saxon ? said I. Not a word , said she , have I of the iaith dieithr , nor has my husband , nor any one of my people . 
I bade her farewell , and soon reached the road , which led south and north . 
As I was bound for the south I strode forward briskly in that direction . 
The road was between romantic hills heard Welsh songs proceeding from the hill fields on my right , and the murmur of a brook rushing down a deep nant on my left . 
She spoke English , and on my asking her how she had learnt the English tongue , she told me that she had learnt it of her mother who was an English woman . 
She said that I was two miles from Llan Rhyadr , and that I must go straight forward . 
I did so till I reached a place where the road branched into two , one bearing somewhat to the left , and the other to the right . 
After standing a minute in perplexity I took the right hand road , but soon guessed that I had taken the wrong one , as the road dwindled into a mere footpath . 
I did so , and presently a woman came through a gate to me . 
I wonder , thought I to myself , what you would have answered if I had said that you speak English execrably . 
By her own account she could read both Welsh and English . 
She walked by my side to the turn , and then up the left hand road , which she said was the way to Llan Rhyadr . 
Coming to a cottage she bade me good night and went in . 
She was now standing behind a little gate which opened into a garden before the cottage . 
The figure of a man was standing near her . 
I told her that she was quite right in her supposition . 
Ah , said she , you should have gone straight forward . 
Well , said she , be sure you keep straight forward now . 
I asked her who the man was standing near her . 
It is my husband , said she . 
Has he much English ? said I. None at all , said she , for his mother was not English , like mine . 
I bade her good night and went forward . 
In a little time I came to rapid descent , and at the bottom of it to a bridge . 
It was now very dark only the corner of the moon was casting a faint light . 
After crossing the bridge I had one or two ascents and descents . 
At last I saw lights before me which proved to be those of Llan Rhyadr . 
CHAPTER LXV Inn at Llan Rhyadr A low Englishman Enquiries The Cook A Precious Couple . 
THE inn seemed very large , but did not look very cheerful . 
I ordered dinner or rather supper , which in about half an hour was brought in by the woman . 
The supper whether good or bad I despatched with the appetite of one who had walked twenty miles over hill and dale . 
I asked if he was an Englishman , Yes , said she , a low Englishman . 
Then he must be low indeed , said I. A low Englishman is the lowest of the low . 
After a little time I heard no more noise , and was told that the fellow was gone away . 
I had a little whisky and water , and then went to bed , sleeping in a tolerable chamber but rather cold . 
There was much rain during the night and also wind windows rattled , and I occasionally heard the noise of falling tiles . 
Notwithstanding the night had been so tempestuous the morning was sunshiny and beautiful . 
Having ordered breakfast I walked out in order to look at the town . 
Llan Rhyadr is a small place , having nothing remarkable in it save an ancient church and a strange little antique market house , standing on pillars . 
It is situated at the western end of an extensive valley and at the entrance of a glen . 
A brook or rivulet runs through it , which comes down the glen from the celebrated cataract , which is about four miles distant to the west . 
Two lofty mountains form the entrance of the glen , and tower above the town , one on the south and the other on the north . 
Their names , if they have any , I did not learn . 
Whilst breakfasting I asked the landlady , who was bustling about the room , whether she had ever heard of Owen Glendower . 
In truth , sir , I have . 
And do you know where he lived ? I do not , sir I suppose a great way off , somewhere in the south . 
Do you mean South Wales ? In truth , sir , I do . 
There you are mistaken , said I and also in supposing he lived a great way off . 
He lived in North Wales , and not far from this place . 
In truth , sir , you know more about him than I. Did you ever hear of a place called Sycharth ? Sycharth ! Sycharth ! I never did , sir . 
It is the place where Glendower lived , and it is not far off . 
I want to go there , but do not know the way . 
Sycharth ! Sycharth ! said the landlady musingly I wonder if it is the place we call Sychnant . 
Is there such a place ? Yes , sure about six miles from here , near Langedwin . 
What kind of place is it ? In truth , sir , I do not know , for I was never there . 
My cook , however , in the kitchen , knows all about it , for she comes from there . 
Can I see her ? Yes , sure I will go at once and fetch her . 
She then left the room and presently returned with the cook , a short , thick girl with blue staring eyes . 
Here she is , sir , said the landlady , but she has no English . 
All the better , said I. So you come from a place called Sychnant ? said I to the cook in Welsh . 
In truth , sir , I do said the cook . 
Did you ever hear of a gwr boneddig called Owen Glendower ? Often , sir , often he lived in our place . 
He lived in a place called Sycharth ? said I. Well , sir and we of the place call it Sycharth as often as Sychnant nay , oftener . 
Is his house standing ? It is not but the hill on which it stood is still standing . 
Is it a high hill ? It is not it is a small , light hill . 
A light hill ! said I to myself . 
Old Iolo Goch , Owen Glendower's bard , said the chieftain dwelt in a house on a light hill . 
'There dwells the chief we all extol In timber house on lightsome knoll . 
Is there a little river near it , said I to the cook , a ffrwd ? There is it runs just under the hill . 
Is there a mill upon the ffrwd ? There is not that is , now but there was in the old time a factory of woollen stands now where the mill once stood . 
'A mill a rushing brook upon And pigeon tower fram'd of stone . 
So says Iolo Goch , said I to myself , in his description of Sycharth I am on the right road . 
I asked the cook to whom the property of Sycharth belonged and was told of course to Sir Watkin , who appears to be the Marquis of Denbighshire . 
After a few more questions I thanked her and told her she might go . 
I then finished my breakfast , paid my bill , and after telling the landlady that I should return at night , started for Llangedwin and Sycharth . 
A broad and excellent road led along the valley in the direction in which I was proceeding . 
After an hour's walking I overtook two people , a man and a woman laden with baskets which hung around them on every side . 
After giving them the sele of the day I asked them if they were English . 
Aye , aye , master , said the man we are English . 
Where do you come from ? said I. From Wrexham , said the man . 
Is that young woman your wife ? said I. Yes said he , after a fashion and then he leered at the lass , and she leered at him . 
Do you worship ale ? said I. Yes , master , I worships ale . 
CHAPTER LXVI Sycharth The Kindly Welcome Happy Couple Sycharth Recalling the Dead Ode to Sycharth . 
I WAS now at the northern extremity of the valley near a great house past which the road led in the direction of the north east . 
Seeing a man employed in breaking stones I inquired the way to Sychnant . 
And to whom does the great house belong ? To whom ? why , to Sir Watkin . 
Does he reside there ? Not often . 
He has plenty of other houses , but he sometimes comes there to hunt . 
What is the place's name ? Llan Gedwin . 
I turned to the left , as the labourer had directed me . 
The path led upward behind the great house round a hill thickly planted with trees . 
Following it I at length found myself on a broad road on the top extending east and west , and having on the north and south beautiful wooded hills . 
I followed the road which presently began to descend . 
On reaching level ground I overtook a man in a waggoner's frock , of whom I inquired the way to Sycharth . 
He pointed westward down the vale to what appeared to be a collection of houses , near a singular looking monticle , and said , That is Sycharth . 
We walked together till we came to a road which branched off on the right to a little bridge . 
In a comfortable kitchen by a hearth on which blazed a cheerful billet sat a man and woman . 
Welcome , stranger , said the man , after looking me a moment or two full in the face . 
Croesaw , dyn dieithr welcome , foreign man , said the woman , surveying me with a look of great curiosity . 
Won't you sit down ? said the man , handing me a chair . 
I sat down , and the man and woman resumed their seats . 
I suppose you come on business connected with the factory ? said the man . 
No , said I , my business is connected with Owen Glendower . 
With Owen Glendower ? said the man , staring . 
Yes , said I , I came to see his place . 
You will not see much of his house now , said the man it is down only a few bricks remain . 
But I shall see the place where his house stood , said I , which is all I expected to see . 
Yes , you can see that . 
What does the dyn dieithr say ? said the woman in Welsh with an inquiring look . 
That he is come to see the place of Owen Glendower . 
Ah ! said the woman with a smile . 
Is that good lady your wife ? said I. She is . 
She looks much older than yourself . 
She is twenty one years older . 
How old are you ? Fifty three . 
Dear me , said I , what a difference in your ages . 
How came you to marry ? She was a widow and I had lost my wife . 
We were lone in the world , so we thought we would marry . 
Do you live happily together ? Very . 
Then you did quite right to marry . 
What is your name ? David Robert . 
And that of your wife ? Gwen Robert . 
Does she speak English ? She speaks some , but not much . 
Is the place where Owen lived far from here ? It is not . 
It is the round hill a little way above the factory . 
Is the path to it easy to find ? I will go with you , said the man . 
I work at the factory , but I need not go there for an hour at least . 
He put on his hat and bidding me follow him went out . 
We thanked her and proceeded to mount the hill or monticle once the residence of the great Welsh chieftain , whom his own deeds and the pen of Shakespear have rendered immortal . 
The top of the mount is just twenty five feet across . 
When I visited it it was covered with grass , but had once been subjected to the plough as various furrows indicated . 
He refused it , saying that I was quite welcome . 
I tried to force it upon him . 
I will not take it , said he but if you come to my house and have a cup of coffee , you may give sixpence to my old woman . 
I will come , said I , in a short time . 
In the meanwhile do you go I wish to be alone . 
What do you want to do ? To sit down and endeavour to recall Glendower , and the times that are past . 
The fine fellow looked puzzled at last he said , Very well , shrugged his shoulders , and descended the hill . 
Conjointly are the angles bound No flaw in all the place is found . 
Structures in contact meet the eye Upon the hillock's top on high Into each other fastened they The form of a hard knot display . 
Tiled is the roof , on each house top Rise smoke ejecting chimneys up . 
All of one form there are nine halls Each with nine wardrobes in its walls With linen white as well supplied As fairest shops of fam'd Cheapside . 
A warren wide my chief can boast , Of goodly steeds a countless host . 
A noble leader , Cambria's knight , The lake possesses , his by right , And midst that azure water plac'd , The castle , by each pleasure grac'd . 
CHAPTER LXVII Cup of Coffee Gwen Bluff old Fellow A Rabble Rout All from Wrexham . 
Well , said the man , did you bring back Owen Glendower ? Not only him , said I , but his house , family , and all relating to him . 
By what means ? said the man . 
By means of a song made a long time ago , which describes Sycharth as it was in his time , and his manner of living there . 
I took the coffee , helped myself to some sugar , and returned her thanks in her own language . 
Ah , said the man , in Welsh , I see you are a Cumro . 
Gwen and I have been wondering whether you were Welsh or English but I see you are one of ourselves . 
No , said I in the same language , I am an Englishman , born in a part of England the farthest of any from Wales . 
In fact , I am a Carn Sais . 
And how came you to speak Welsh ? said the man . 
I took it into my head to learn it when I was a boy , said I. Englishmen sometimes do strange things . 
So I have heard , said the man , but I never heard before of an Englishman learning Welsh . 
No , thank you , said I , I have had enough . 
Where are you going ? said the man in English . 
To Llan Rhyadr , said I , from which I came this morning . 
Which way did you come ? said the man . 
By Llan Gedwin , I replied , and over the hill . 
Is there another way ? There is , said the man , by Llan Silin . 
Llan Silin ! said I is not that the place where Huw Morris is buried ? It is , said the man . 
I will return by Llan Silin , said I , and in passing through pay a visit to the tomb of the great poet . 
Is Llan Silin far off ? About half a mile , said the man . 
Go over the bridge , turn to the right , and you will be there presently . 
I shook the honest couple by the hand and bade them farewell . 
The man put on his hat and went with me a few yards from the door , and then proceeded towards the factory . 
I passed over the bridge , under which was a streamlet , which a little below the bridge received the brook which once turned Owen Glendower's corn mill . 
I soon reached Llan Silin , a village or townlet , having some high hills at a short distance to the westward , which form part of the Berwyn . 
The landlord bowed and departed . 
A bluff looking old fellow , somewhat under the middle size , sat just opposite to me at the table . 
He was dressed in a white frieze coat , and had a small hat on his head set rather consequentially on one side . 
Before him on the table stood a jug of ale , between which and him lay a large crabstick . 
Three or four other people stood or sat in different parts of the room . 
Presently the landlord returned with the ale . 
I suppose you come on sessions business , sir ? said he , as he placed it down before me . 
I am not come on sessions business , said I I am merely strolling a little about to see the country . 
He is come from South Wales , said the old fellow in the frieze coat , to the landlord , in order to see what kind of country the north is . 
Well at any rate he has seen a better country than his own . 
But let's hear you speak a little Welsh then I shall be certain as to who you are . 
I did as he bade me , saying a few words in Welsh . 
There's Welsh , said the old fellow , who but a South Welshman would talk Welsh in that manner ? It's nearly as bad as your English . 
I asked him if he had ever been in South Wales . 
Yes , said he and a bad country I found it just like the people . 
If you take me for a South Welshman , said I , you ought to speak civilly both of the South Welsh and their country . 
I am merely paying tit for tat , said the old fellow . 
When I was in South Wales your people laughed at my folks and country , so when I meet one of them here I serve him out as I was served out there . 
I made no reply to him , but addressing myself to the landlord inquired whether Huw Morris was not buried in Llan Silin churchyard . 
He replied in the affirmative . 
I should like to see his tomb , said I. Well , sir , said the landlord , I shall be happy to show it to you whenever you please . 
Here again the old fellow put in his word . 
You never had a prydydd like Huw Morris in South Wales , said he nor Twm o'r Nant either . 
South Wales has produced good poets , said I. No , it hasn't , said the old fellow it never produced one . 
If it had , you wouldn't have needed to come here to see the grave of a poet you would have found one at home . 
As he said these words he got up , took his stick , and seemed about to depart . 
I will not be insulted by you , you vagabond , said the old chap , nor by Sir Watkin either go and tell him so . 
The fellow looked sheepish , and turning away proceeded to take liberties with other people less dangerous to meddle with than old crabstick . 
He , however , soon desisted , and sat down evidently disconcerted . 
Were you ever worse treated in South Wales by the people there than you have been here by your own countrymen ? said I to the old fellow . 
My countrymen ? said he this scamp is no countryman of mine nor is one of the whole kit . 
They say they will stand up for Sir Watkin , and so they will , but only in a box in the Court to give false evidence . 
They won't fight for him on the banks of the river . 
Countrymen of mine , indeed ! they are no countrymen of mine they are from Wrexham , where the people speak neither English nor Welsh , not even South Welsh as you do . 
Then giving a kind of flourish with his stick he departed . 
CHAPTER LXVIII Llan Silin Church Tomb of Huw Morris Barbara and Richard Welsh Country Clergyman The Swearing Lad Anglo Saxon Devils . 
HAVING discussed my ale I asked the landlord if he would show me the grave of Huw Morris . 
With pleasure , sir , said he pray follow me . 
The church fronts the south , the portico being in that direction . 
The body of the sacred edifice is ancient , but the steeple which bears a gilded cock on its top is modern . 
It is covered over with letters three parts defaced . 
All I could make out of the inscription was the date of the poet's death , . 
A great genius , a very great genius , sir , said the inn keeper , after I had got on my feet and put on my hat . 
Do you know any more of Huw's poetry ? said I. No , said the innkeeper . 
It is very odd how few of the verses of great poets are in people's mouths . 
Not more than a dozen of Shakespear's lines are in people's mouths of those of Pope not more than half that number . 
From the flagstone I proceeded to the portico and gazed upon it intensely . 
I would fain have entered the church , but the landlord had not the key , and told me that he imagined there would be some difficulty in procuring it . 
I was therefore obliged to content myself with peeping through a window into the interior , which had a solemn and venerable aspect . 
Having received from him the desired information I thanked him for his civility , and set out on my return . 
Before I could get clear of the town I suddenly encountered my friend R , the clever lawyer and magistrate's clerk of Llangollen . 
I little expected to see you here , said he . 
Nor I you , I replied . 
I came in my official capacity , said he the petty sessions have been held here to day . 
I know they have , I replied and that two poachers have been convicted . 
I came here on my way to South Wales to see the grave of Huw Morris , who , as you know , is buried in the churchyard . 
Have you seen the clergyman ? said R . 
Then come with me , said he I am now going to call upon him . 
I know he will be rejoiced to make your acquaintance . 
He led me to the clergyman's house , which stood at the south west end of the village within a garden fenced with an iron paling . 
We found the clergyman in a nice comfortable parlour or study , the sides of which were decorated with books . 
He was a sharp clever looking man , of about the middle age . 
On my being introduced to him he was very glad to see me , as my friend R told me he would be . 
He seemed to know all about me , even that I understood Welsh . 
We conversed on various subjects on the power of the Welsh language its mutable letters on Huw Morris , and likewise on ale , with an excellent glass of which he regaled me . 
I was much pleased with him , and thought him a capital specimen of the Welsh country clergyman . 
His name was Walter Jones . 
My friend R walked with me a little way and then bade me farewell . 
It was now late in the afternoon , the sky was grey and gloomy , and a kind of half wintry wind was blowing . 
In about half an hour I found myself nearly parallel with the high crag which I had seen from a distance in the morning . 
It was now to the east of me . 
Its western front was very precipitous , but on its northern side it was cultivated nearly to the summit . 
As I stood looking at it from near the top of a gentle acclivity a boy with a team , whom I had passed a little time before , came up . 
He was whipping his horses , who were straining up the ascent , and was swearing at them most frightfully in English . 
I addressed him in that language , inquiring the name of the crag , but he answered Dim Saesneg , and then again fell to cursing his horses in English . 
Yes , said the lad , I have English enough for my horses , and that is all . 
It is called Craig y Gorllewin , said he . 
I thanked him , and soon left him and his team far behind . 
Some of their oaths are curious , being connected with heathen times and Druidical mythology for example that Cas Andras , mentioned by the boy , which means hateful enemy or horrible Andras . 
Andras or Andraste was the fury or Demigorgon of the Ancient Cumry , to whom they built temples and offered sacrifices out of fear . 
Curious that the same oath should be used by the Christian Cumry of the present day , which was in vogue amongst their pagan ancestors some three thousand years ago . 
Night came quickly upon me after I had passed the swearing lad . 
However , I was fortunate enough to reach Llan Rhyadr , without having experienced any damage or impediment from Diawl , Andras , Duse , or Nick . 
CHAPTER LXIX Church of Llan Rhyadr The Clerk The Tablet Stone First View of the Cataract . 
THE night was both windy and rainy like the preceding one , but the morning which followed , unlike that of the day before , was dull and gloomy . 
After breakfast I walked out to take another view of the little town . 
As I stood looking at the church a middle aged man of a remarkably intelligent countenance came up and asked me if I should like to see the inside . 
I told him I should , whereupon he said that he was the clerk and would admit me with pleasure . 
Taking a key out of his pocket he unlocked the door of the church and we went in . 
The inside was sombre , not so much owing to the gloominess of the day as the heaviness of the architecture . 
It presented something in the form of a cross . 
I soon found the clerk what his countenance represented him to be , a highly intelligent person . 
His answers to my questions were in general ready and satisfactory . 
This seems rather an ancient edifice , said I when was it built ? In the sixteenth century , said the clerk in the days of Harry Tudor . 
Then there was Doctor Robert South , an eminent divine , who , though not a Welshman , spoke and preached Welsh better than many of the native clergy . 
Then there was the last vicar , Walter D , a great preacher and writer , who styled himself in print Gwalter Mechain . 
Are Morgan and South buried here ? said I. They are not , sir , said the clerk they had been transferred to other benefices before they died . 
I did not inquire whether Walter D was buried there , for of him I had never heard before , but demanded whether the church possessed any ancient monuments . 
There was an inscription upon it , but owing to the darkness I could not make out a letter . 
The clerk , however , read as follows . 
Hic Sepultus Est Sidneus Bynner . 
Do you understand Latin ? said I to the clerk . 
I do not , sir I believe , however , that the stone is to the memory of one Bynner . 
That is not a Welsh name , said I. It is not , sir , said the clerk . 
It seems to be radically the same as Bonner , said I , the name of the horrible Popish Bishop of London in Mary's time . 
I made the clerk , who appeared almost fit to be a clergyman , a small present , and returned to the inn . 
After paying my bill I flung my satchel over my shoulder , took my umbrella by the middle in my right hand , and set off for the Rhyadr . 
I entered the narrow glen at the western extremity of the town and proceeded briskly along . 
I enjoyed the scene , and should have enjoyed it more had there been a little sunshine to gild it . 
I passed through a small village , the name of which I think was Cynmen , and presently overtook a man and boy . 
The man saluted me in English , and I entered into conversation with him in that language . 
He told me that he came from Llan Gedwin , and was going to a place called Gwern something , in order to fetch home some sheep . 
After a time he asked me where I was going . 
I am going to see the Pistyll Rhyadr , said I We had then just come to the top of a rising ground . 
Yonder's the Pistyll ! said he , pointing to the west . 
I looked in the direction of his finger , and saw something at a great distance , which looked like a strip of grey linen hanging over a crag . 
That is the waterfall , he continued , which so many of the Saxons come to see . 
CHAPTER LXX Mountain Scenery The Rhyadr Wonderful Feat . 
I advanced across the vale till within a furlong of this object , when I was stopped by a deep hollow or nether vale into which the waters of the cataract tumble . 
On the side of this hollow I sat down , and gazed down before me and on either side . 
The water comes spouting over a crag of perhaps two hundred feet in altitude between two hills , one south east and the other nearly north . 
Groves of pine are on the lower parts of both in front of a grove low down on the northern hill is a small white house of a picturesque appearance . 
The water of the cataract , after reaching the bottom of the precipice , rushes in a narrow brook down the vale in the direction of Llan Rhyadr . 
The principal object of the whole is of course the Rhyadr . 
After sitting on the verge of the hollow for a considerable time I got up , and directed my course towards the house in front of the grove . 
A steep path led towards the house . 
As I drew near two handsome dogs came rushing to welcome the stranger . 
I followed the path which led downward to a tiny bridge of planks , a little way below the fall . 
I advanced to the middle of the bridge , then turning to the west , looked at the wonderful object before me . 
I never saw water falling so gracefully , so much like thin beautiful threads , as here . 
Yet even this cataract has its blemish . 
This unsightly object has stood where it now stands since the day of creation , and will probably remain there to the day of judgment . 
It would be a desecration of nature to remove it by art , but no one could regret if nature in one of her floods were to sweep it away . 
As I was standing on the planks a woman plainly but neatly dressed came from the house . 
She addressed me in very imperfect English , saying that she was the mistress of the house and should be happy to show me about . 
to pass over than men , said I. It is , said the woman but I once saw a man pass over it . 
How did he get up ? said I. The sides are quite steep and slippery . 
till he got to the top , when he stood upright for a minute , and then slid down on the other side . 
Was he any one from these parts ? said I. He was not . 
He was a dyn dieithr , a Russian one of those with whom we are now at war . 
Was there as much water tumbling then as now ? More , for there had fallen more rain . 
After I had seen all I wished of the cataract , the woman asked me to come to the house and take some refreshment . 
I followed her to a neat little room where she made me sit down and handed me a bowl of butter milk . 
On the table was a book in which she told me it was customary for individuals who visited the cataract to insert their names . 
I took up the book which contained a number of names mingled here and there with pieces of poetry . 
Amongst these compositions was a Welsh englyn on the Rhyadr , which , though incorrect in its prosody , I thought stirring and grand . 
I copied it , and subjoin it with a translation which I made on the spot . 
Crychiawg , ewynawg anian yw y Rhyadr Yn rhuo mal taran Colofn o dwr , gloyw dwr glan , Gorwyllt , un lliw ag arian . 
Foaming and frothing from mountainous height , Roaring like thunder the Rhyadr falls Though its silvery splendour the eye may delight , Its fury the heart of the bravest appals . 
CHAPTER LXXI Wild Moors The Guide Scientific Discourse The Land of Arthur The Umbrella Arrival at Bala . 
Oh yes , said she , if you cross the hills for about five miles you will find yourself upon a road which will take you straight to Bala . 
She went out and presently returned with a man about thirty five , stout and well looking , and dressed in a waggoner's frock . 
There , said she , this is the man to show you over the hills few know the paths better . 
I thanked her , and telling the man I was ready , bade him lead the way . 
We set out , the two dogs of which I have spoken attending us , and seemingly very glad to go . 
We ascended the side of the hog backed hill to the north of the Rhyadr . 
We were now on an extensive moory elevation , having the brook which forms the Rhyadr a little way on our left . 
We went nearly due west , following no path , for path there was none , but keeping near the brook . 
Sometimes we crossed water courses which emptied their tribute into the brook , and every now and then ascended and descended hillocks covered with gorse and whin . 
After a little time I entered into conversation with my guide . 
He had not a word of English . 
Are you married ? said I. In truth I am , sir . 
What family have you ? I have a daughter . 
Where do you live ? At the house of the Rhyadr . 
I suppose you live there as servant ? No , sir , I live there as master . 
Is the good woman I saw there your wife ? In truth , sir , she is . 
And the young girl I saw your daughter ? Yes , sir , she is my daughter . 
But can you be spared from home ? Oh yes , sir , I was not wanted at home . 
What business are you ? I am a farmer , sir . 
A sheep farmer ? Yes , sir . 
Well , it was very kind of you to come with me . 
Moreover , I have sheep lying about here which need to be looked at now and then , and by coming hither with you I shall have an opportunity of seeing them . 
We frequently passed sheep feeding together in small numbers . 
We had some discourse about that malady . 
At last he asked me if there was a remedy for it . 
Oh yes , said I a decoction of hoarhound . 
What is hoarhound ? said he . 
in the liver , which learned men say is the cause of the disorder . 
We left the brook on our left hand and passed by some ruined walls which my guide informed me had once belonged to houses but were now used as sheepfolds . 
After walking several miles , according to my computation , we began to ascend a considerable elevation covered with brown heath and ling . 
As we went on the dogs frequently put up a bird of a black colour , which flew away with a sharp whirr . 
What bird is that ? said I. Ceiliog y grug , the cock of the heath , replied my guide . 
It is said to be very good eating , but I have never tasted it . 
The ceiliog y grug is not food for the like of me . 
It goes to feed the rich Saxons in Caer Ludd . 
We reached the top of the elevation . 
Yonder , said my guide , pointing to a white bare place a great way off to the west , is Bala road . 
Then I will not trouble you to go any further , said I I can find my way thither . 
Thereupon he moved in a southerly direction down the steep and I followed him . 
In about twenty minutes we came to the road . 
Now , said my guide , you are on the road bear to the right and you cannot miss the way to Bala . 
How far is it to Bala ? said I. About twelve miles , he replied . 
I gave him a trifle , asking at the same time if it was sufficient . 
Too much by one half , he replied many , many thanks . 
He then shook me by the hand , and accompanied by his dogs departed , not back over the moor , but in a southerly direction down the road . 
Here I turned and looked at the hills I had come across . 
There they stood , darkly blue , a rain cloud , like ink , hanging over their summits . 
Oh , the wild hills of Wales , the land of old renown and of wonder , the land of Arthur and Merlin ! The road now lay nearly due west . 
Rain came on , but it was at my back , so I expanded my umbrella , flung it over my shoulder and laughed . 
Oh , what a good friend to a man is an umbrella in rain time , and likewise at many other times . 
I never saw you before in all my life . 
I merely meant a little fun . 
And what respectable man , when you overtake him on the way and speak to him , will refuse to hold conversation with you , provided you have an umbrella ? No one . 
The respectable man sees you have an umbrella , and concludes that you do not intend to rob him , and with justice , for robbers never carry umbrellas . 
Oh , a tent , a shield , a lance , and a voucher for character is an umbrella . 
Amongst the very best friends of man must be reckoned an umbrella . 
The scene was beautiful but melancholy the rain had passed away , but a gloomy almost November sky was above , and the mists of night were coming down apace . 
I crossed a bridge at the bottom of the valley and presently saw a road branching to the right . 
I paused , but after a little time went straight forward . 
Gloomy woods were on each side of me and night had come down . 
After descending some time I hallooed . 
The noise of the hatchets ceased . 
I hallooed again , and a voice cried in Welsh , What do you want ? To know the way to Bala , I replied . 
There was no answer , but presently I heard steps , and the figure of a man drew nigh , half undistinguishable in the darkness , and saluted me . 
I returned his salutation , and told him I wanted to know the way to Bala . 
He told me , and I found I had been going right . 
I thanked him and regained the road . 
I sped onward , and in about half an hour saw some houses , then a bridge , then a lake on my left , which I recognised as the lake of Bala . 
I skirted the end of it , and came to a street cheerfully lighted up , and in a minute more was in the White Lion Inn . 
CHAPTER LXXII Cheerful Fire Immense Man Doctor Jones Recognition A Fast Young Man Excellent Remarks Disappointment . 
The room presented an agreeable contrast to the gloomy , desolate places through which I had lately come . 
A good fire blazed in the grate , and there were four lights on the table . 
Lolling in a chair by one side of the fire was an individual at the sight of whom I almost started . 
Laying my satchel down I took a seat and ordered the maid to get some dinner for me , and then asked what had become of the waiter , Tom Jenkins . 
He is not here at present , sir , said the freckled maid he is at his own house . 
And why is he not here ? said I. Because he is not wanted , sir he only comes in summer when the house is full of people . 
And having said this the little freckled damsel left the room . 
Reither a cool night , sir ! said the enormous man after we had been alone together a few minutes . 
I again almost started , for he spoke with the same kind of half piping , half wheezing voice , with which methought the Wolverhampton gent had spoken to me in my dream . 
Yes , said I it is rather cold out abroad , but I don't care as I am not going any farther to night . 
A very nice inn it is , and the landlady a very agreeable woman , and her daughters very agreeable young ladies . 
Is this the first time you have been at Bala ? Yes , the first time . 
I had heard a good deal about it , and wished to see it . 
So to day , having the offer of a vehicle at a cheap rate , I came over with two or three other gents , amongst whom is Doctor Jones . 
Dear me said I , is Doctor Jones in Bala ? Yes , said the stout man . 
Do you know him ? Oh yes , said I , and have a great respect for him his like for politeness and general learning is scarcely to be found in Britain . 
Only think , said the stout man . 
Well , I never heard that of him before . 
Wishing to see my sleeping room before I got my dinner , I now rose and was making for the door , when it opened , and in came Doctor Jones . 
He had a muffler round his neck , and walked rather slowly and disconsolately , leaning upon a cane . 
I was shown by the freckled maid to a nice sleeping apartment , where I stayed some time adjusting myself . 
On my return to the coffee room I found the doctor sitting near the fire place . 
The stout man had left the room . 
Well , said I , I am rejoiced that fate has brought us together again . 
How have you been in health since I had the pleasure of seeing you ? Rather indifferent , sir , rather indifferent . 
I have likewise been afflicted with lowness of spirits , sir . 
I shall always consider my coming as a fortunate circumstance , inasmuch as it has given me an opportunity of renewing my acquaintance with you . 
Pray , said I , may I take the liberty of asking who that individual is ? Why , said Doctor Jones , he is what they call a Wolverhampton gent . 
A Wolverhampton gent , said I to myself only think ! Were you pleased to make any observation , sir ? said the doctor . 
I was merely saying something to myself , said I. And in what line of business may he be ? I suppose in the hog line . 
Oh no ! said Doctor Jones . 
The son of a hog merchant , thought I to myself . 
He looked rather surprised at seeing the doctor and me conversing , but Doctor Jones turning to him , said , Oh , I remember this gentleman perfectly . 
If I am not much mistaken , sir , you are one of our principal engineers at Wolverhampton . 
Oh yes ! I remember you now perfectly . 
The last time I saw you was at a public dinner given to you at Wolverhampton , and there you made a speech , and a capital speech it was . 
Just as I was about to reply Doctor Jones commenced speaking Welsh , resuming the discourse on Welsh literature . 
If I had thought I was to be bothered with Welsh I wouldn't have asked you to come . 
If I spoke Welsh , sir , said the doctor , it was out of compliment to this gentleman , who is a proficient in the ancient language of my country . 
My dinner now made its appearance , brought in by the little freckled maid the cloth had been laid during my absence from the room . 
I'm glad of it , said the fast young man , for it's rather slow work here . 
However , at all events , I wish you health and happiness . 
In a minute or two I heard them drive off . 
Left to myself I began to discuss my dinner . 
Of the dinner I had nothing to complain , but the ale which accompanied it was very bad . 
This is very bad ale ! said I to the freckled maid , very different from what I drank in the summer , when I was waited on by Tom Jenkins . 
Allsopp's ale , said I , will do for July and August , but scarcely for the end of October . 
However , bring me a pint I prefer it at all times to porter . 
My dinner concluded , I trifled away my time till about ten o'clock , and then went to bed . 
CHAPTER LXXIII Breakfast The Freckled Maid Llan uwch Llyn The Landlady Llewarch Hen Conversions to the Church . 
AWAKING occasionally in the night I heard much storm and rain . 
The following morning it was gloomy and lowering . 
Having dressed myself I went to the coffee room and sat down to breakfast . 
There's a breakfast for you ! As the little freckled maid was removing the breakfast things I asked her how old she was . 
Eighteen , sir , last Candlemas , said the freckled maid . 
Are your parents alive ? My mother is , sir , but my father is dead . 
What was your father ? He was an Irishman , sir ! and boots to this inn . 
Is your mother Irish ? No , sir , she is of this place my father married her shortly after he came here . 
Of what religion are you ? Church , sir , Church . 
Was your father of the Church ? Not always , sir he was once what is called a Catholic . 
He turned to the Church after he came here . 
A'n't there a great many Methodists in Bala ? Plenty , sir , plenty . 
I suppose your mother is a Church woman ? She is now , sir but before she knew my father she was a Methodist . 
Of what religion is the master of the house ? Church , sir , Church so is all the family . 
I should like to hear him . 
Well , sir ! that you can do . 
My master , who is going to church presently , will be happy to accommodate you in his pew . 
The church stands low down by the lake at the bottom of a little nook . 
Its name which is Llan uwch Llyn , is descriptive of its position , signifying the Church above the Lake . 
It is a long , low , ancient edifice , standing north east by south west . 
The village is just above it on a rising ground , behind which are lofty hills pleasantly dotted with groves , trees , and houses . 
The interior of the edifice has a somewhat dilapidated appearance . 
The service was in Welsh . 
The clergyman was about forty years of age , and had a highly intelligent look . 
His voice was remarkably clear and distinct . 
He preached an excellent practical sermon , text , th chapter , nd verse of Luke , about sending out servants to invite people to the supper . 
After the sermon there was a gathering for the poor . 
As I returned to the inn I had a good deal of conversation with the landlord on religious subjects . 
He seemed to think that the time was not far distant when the Anglican Church would be the popular as well as the established Church of Wales . 
Finding myself rather dull in the inn , I went out again , notwithstanding that it rained . 
I ascended the toman or mound which I had visited on a former occasion . 
Nothing could be more desolate and dreary than the scene around . 
The woods were stripped of their verdure and the hills were half shrouded in mist . 
How unlike was this scene to the smiling , glorious prospect which had greeted my eyes a few months before . 
The rain coming down with redoubled violence , I was soon glad to descend and regain the inn . 
Shortly before dinner I was visited by the landlady , a fine tall woman of about fifty , with considerable remains of beauty in her countenance . 
She came to ask me if I was comfortable . 
I told her that it was my own fault if I was not . 
We were soon in very friendly discourse . 
I asked her her maiden name . 
Owen , said she , laughing , which , after my present name of Jones , is the most common name in Wales . 
They were both one and the same originally , said I , Owen and Jones both mean John . 
She too was a staunch member of the Church of England , which she said was the only true Church . 
I had a noble goose for dinner , to which I did ample justice . 
About four o'clock , the weather having cleared up , I took a stroll . 
It was a beautiful evening , though rain clouds still hovered about . 
I wandered to the northern end of Llyn Tegid , which I had passed in the preceding evening . 
The wind was blowing from the south , and tiny waves were beating against the shore , which consisted of small brown pebbles . 
The lake has certainly not its name , which signifies Lake of Beauty , for nothing . 
It is a beautiful sheet of water , and beautifully situated . 
It is oblong and about six miles in length . 
On all sides , except to the north , it is bounded by hills . 
Those at the southern end are very lofty , the tallest of which is Arran , which lifts its head to the clouds like a huge loaf . 
His name was Llewarch Hen , of whom I will now say a few words . 
If he was remarkable for his years he was no less so for the number of his misfortunes . 
He was one of the princes of the Cumbrian Britons but Cumbria was invaded by the Saxons , and a scene of horrid war ensued . 
Most of his sons were slain , and he himself with the remainder sought shelter in Powys , in the hall of Cynddylan , its prince . 
But the Saxon bills and bows found their way to Powys too . 
Whilst a prince he was revered for his wisdom and equity , and he is said in one of the historical triads to have been one of the three consulting warriors of Arthur . 
In the evening I attended service in the old church at Bala . 
The entire service was in Welsh . 
Next to the pew in which I sat was one filled with young singing women , all of whom seemed to have voices of wonderful power . 
The prayers were read by a strapping young curate at least six feet high . 
The sermon was preached by the rector , and was a continuation of the one which I had heard him preach in the morning . 
It was a very comforting discourse , as the preacher clearly proved that every sinner will be pardoned who comes to Jesus . 
I was particularly struck with one part . 
The preacher said that Jesus' arms being stretched out upon the cross was emblematic of His surprising love and His willingness to receive anybody . 
The service concluded with the noble anthem Teyrnasa Jesu Mawr , May Mighty Jesus reign ! The service over I returned to the parlour of the inn . 
There I sat for a long time , lone and solitary , staring at the fire in the grate . 
At length , finding myself yawning , I determined to go to bed . 
The freckled maid as she lighted me to my room inquired how I liked the sermon . 
I told her that I liked it exceedingly . 
Ah , said she , them gals have the best voices in Bala . 
They were once Methody gals , and sang in the chapels , but were converted , and are now as good Church as myself . 
That's a thing of course . 
If the Church gets the girls she is quite sure of the fellows . 
CHAPTER LXXIV Proceed on Journey The Lad and Dog Old Bala The Pass Extensive View The Two Men The Tap Nyth The Meeting of the Waters The Wild Valley Dinas Mawddwy . 
THE Monday morning was gloomy and misty , but it did not rain , a circumstance which gave me no little pleasure , as I intended to continue my journey without delay . 
After breakfast I bade farewell to my kind host , and also to the freckled maid , and departed , my satchel o'er my shoulder and my umbrella in my hand . 
I had consulted the landlord on the previous day as to where I had best make my next halt , and had been advised by him to stop at Mallwyd . 
Passing by the northern end of the lake I turned to the south , and proceeded along a road a little way above the side of the lake . 
The day had now to a certain extent cleared up , and the lake was occasionally gilded by beams of bright sunshine . 
After walking a little way I overtook a lad dressed in a white greatcoat and attended by a tolerably large black dog . 
I addressed him in English , but finding that he did not understand me I began to talk to him in Welsh . 
That's a fine dog , said I. LAD . 
Very fine , sir , and a good dog though young he has been known to kill rats . 
What is his name ? LAD . 
His name is Toby , sir . 
And what is your name ? LAD . 
And what is your father's ? LAD . 
Is Waladr the same as Cadwaladr ? LAD . 
In truth , sir , it is . 
That is a fine name . 
It is , sir I have heard my father say that it was the name of a king . 
What is your father ? LAD . 
Does he farm his own land ? LAD . 
He does not , sir he is tenant to Mr Price of Hiwlas . 
Do you live far from Bala ? LAD . 
Not very far , sir . 
Are you going home now ? LAD . 
I am not , sir our home is on the other side of Bala . 
I am going to see a relation up the road . 
Bala is a nice place . 
It is , sir but not so fine as old Bala . 
I never heard of such a place . 
Where is it ? LAD . 
Under the lake , sir . 
What do you mean ? LAD . 
That was a long time ago . 
In truth , sir , it was . 
Before the days of King Cadwaladr . 
I daresay it was , sir . 
I walked fast , but the lad was a shrewd walker , and though encumbered with his greatcoat contrived to keep tolerably up with me . 
The road went over hill and dale , but upon the whole more upward than downward . 
About a minute afterwards a small delicate furred creature with a white mark round its neck and with a little tail trailing on the ground ran swiftly across the road . 
It was a weasel or something of that genus on observing it I was glad that the lad and the dog were gone , as between them they would probably have killed it . 
I crossed a bridge over a deep gulley which discharged its waters into a river in a valley on the right . 
Arran rose in great majesty on the farther side of this vale , its head partly shrouded in mist . 
The day now became considerably overcast . 
I wandered on over much rough ground till I came to a collection of houses at the bottom of a pass leading up a steep mountain . 
Seeing the door of one of the houses open I peeped in , and a woman who was sitting knitting in the interior rose and came out to me . 
I asked the name of the place . 
The name which she told me sounded something like Ty Capel Saer the House of the Chapel of the Carpenter . 
I inquired the name of the river in the valley . 
She asked me if I was going up the bwlch . 
I told her I was . 
Rather you than I , said she , looking up to the heavens , which had assumed a very dismal , not to say awful , appearance . 
Coming to a little cottage which stood on the left I went to the door and knocked . 
A smiling young woman opened it , of whom I asked the name of the house . 
Ty Nant the House of the Dingle , she replied . 
Do you live alone ? said I. No mother lives here . 
Any Saesneg ? No , said she with a smile , S'sneg of no use here . 
Her face looked the picture of kindness . 
I was now indeed in Wales amongst the real Welsh . 
I went on some way . 
Suddenly there was a moaning sound , and rain came down in torrents . 
Seeing a deserted cottage on my left I went in . 
There was fodder in it , and it appeared to serve partly as a barn , partly as a cow house . 
The rain poured upon the roof , and I was glad I had found shelter . 
Close behind this place a small brook precipitated itself down rocks in four successive falls . 
The rain having ceased I proceeded , and after a considerable time reached the top of the pass . 
From thence I had a view of the valley and lake of Bala , the lake looking like an immense sheet of steel . 
A round hill , however , somewhat intercepted the view of the latter . 
The road now wore nearly due west down a steep descent . 
Arran was slightly to the north of me . 
I , however , soon lost sight of it , as I went down the farther side of the hill , which lies over against it to the south east . 
The sun , now descending , began to shine out . 
The pass down which I was now going was yet wilder than the one up which I had lately come . 
When nearly at the bottom of the descent I stood still to look around me . 
Grand and wild was the scenery . 
On my left were noble green hills , the tops of which were beautifully gilded by the rays of the setting sun . 
A torrent tumbled from the lower part of the semicircle , and after running for some distance to the south turned to the west , the way I was going . 
Observing a house a little way within the gloomy vale I went towards it , in the hope of finding somebody in it who could give me information respecting this wild locality . 
As I drew near the door two tall men came forth , one about sixty , and the other about half that age . 
The elder had a sharp , keen look the younger a lumpy and a stupid one . 
They were dressed like farmers . 
On my saluting them in English the elder returned my salutation in that tongue , but in rather a gruff tone . 
The younger turned away his head and said nothing . 
What is the name of this house ? said I , pointing to the building . 
The name of it , said the old man , is Ty Mawr . 
Do you live in it ? said I. Yes , I live in it . 
What waterfall is that ? said I , pointing to the torrent tumbling down the crag at the farther end of the gloomy vale . 
The fountain of the Royal Dyfi . 
Why do you call the Dyfy royal ? said I. Because it is the king of the rivers in these parts . 
Does the fountain come out of a rock ? It does not it comes out of a lake , a llyn . 
Where is the llyn ? Over that crag at the foot of Aran Vawr . 
Is it a large lake ? It is not it is small . 
Strange things in it ? I believe there are strange things in it . 
His English now became broken . 
Crocodiles ? I do not know what cracadailes be . 
Efync ? Ah ! No , I do not tink there be efync dere . 
Hu Gadarn in de old time kill de efync dere and in all de lakes in Wales . 
What do you call this allt ? said I , looking up to the high pinnacled hill on my right . 
I call that Tap Nyth yr Eryri . 
Is not that the top nest of the eagles ? I believe it is . 
Ha ! I see you understand Welsh . 
A little , said I. Are there eagles there now ? No , no eagle now . 
Gone like avanc ? Yes , gone like avanc , but not so long . 
My father see eagle on Tap Nyth , but my father never see avanc in de llyn . 
How far to Dinas ? About three mile . 
Any thieves about ? No , no thieves here , but what come from England , and he looked at me with a strange , grim smile . 
What is become of the red haired robbers of Mawddwy ? Ah , said the old man , staring at me , I see you are a Cumro . 
The red haired thieves of Mawddwy ! I see you are from these parts . 
What's become of them ? Oh , dead , hung . 
Lived long time ago long before eagle left Tap Nyth . 
They were called the red haired banditti because certain leading individuals amongst them had red foxy hair . 
Is that young man your son ? said I , after a little pause . 
Yes , he my son . 
Has he any English ? No , he no English , but he plenty of Welsh that is if he see reason . 
I spoke to the young man in Welsh , asking him if he had ever been up to the Tap Nyth , but he made no answer . 
He no care for your question , said the old man ask him price of pig . 
Ha , ha , said the old man he plenty of Welsh now , for he see reason . 
To other question he no Welsh at all , no more than English , for he see no reason . 
What business he on Tap Nyth with eagle ? His business down below in sty with pig . 
Ah , he look lump , but he no fool know more about pig than you or I , or any one 'twixt here and Mahuncleth . 
Just below the confluence on a fallen tree was seated a man decently dressed his eyes were fixed on the rushing stream . 
I stopped and spoke to him . 
He had no English , but I found him a very sensible man . 
I talked to him about the source of the Dyfi . 
He said it was a disputed point which was the source . 
He himself was inclined to believe that it was the Pistyll up the bwlch . 
I asked him of what religion he was . 
He said he was of the Church of England , which was the Church of his father and his grandfather , and which he believed to be the only true Church . 
I inquired if it flourished . 
I asked him if he ever read . 
He said he read a great deal , especially the works of Huw Morris , and that reading them had given him a love for the sights of nature . 
He added that his greatest delight was to come to the place where he then was of an evening , and look at the waters and hills . 
I asked him what trade he was . 
The trade of Joseph , said he , smiling . 
Farewell , brother , said I I am not a carpenter , but like you I read the works of Huw Morris and am of the Church of England . 
I then shook him by the hand and departed . 
I passed a village with a stupendous mountain just behind it to the north , which I was told was called Moel Vrith or the party coloured moel . 
I was now drawing near to the western end of the valley . 
What a valley ! I exclaimed . 
But on passing through the opening I found myself in another , wilder and stranger , if possible . 
What is the name of this place ? I shouted to a man on horseback , who came dashing through a brook with a woman in a Welsh dress behind him . 
Aber Cowarch , Saxon ! said the man in a deep guttural voice , and lashing his horse disappeared rapidly in the night . 
Aber Cywarch ! I cried , springing half a yard into the air . 
Why , that's the place where Ellis Wynn composed his immortal 'Sleeping Bard , the book which I translated in the blessed days of my youth . 
Oh , no wonder that the 'Sleeping Bard' is a wild and wondrous work , seeing that it was composed amidst the wild and wonderful scenes which I here behold . 
I proceeded onwards up an ascent after some time I came to a bridge across a stream , which a man told me was called Avon Gerres . 
It runs into the Dyfi , coming down with a rushing sound from a wild vale to the north east between the huge barn like hill and Moel Vrith . 
The barn like hill I was informed was called Pen Dyn . 
I soon reached Dinas Mawddwy , which stands on the lower part of a high hill connected with the Pen Dyn . 
But though a dirty squalid place , I found it anything but silent and deserted . 
I subsequently learned that Dinas was the head quarters of miners , the neighbourhood abounding with mines both of lead and stone . 
I was glad to leave it behind me . 
Mallwyd is to the south of Dinas the way to it is by a romantic gorge down which flows the Royal Dyfi . 
As I proceeded along this gorge the moon rising above Moel Vrith illumined my path . 
In about half an hour I found myself before the inn at Mallwyd . 
CHAPTER LXXV Inn at Mallwyd A Dialogue The Cumro . 
I ENTERED the inn , and seeing a comely looking damsel at the bar , I told her that I was in need of supper and a bed . 
She conducted me into a neat sanded parlour , where a good fire was blazing , and asked me what I would have for supper . 
Whatever you can most readily provide , said I I am not particular . 
I dozed and dozed till I was roused by the maid touching me on the shoulder and telling me that supper was ready . 
I got up and perceived that during my doze she had laid the cloth and put supper upon the table . 
It consisted of bacon and eggs . 
During supper I had some conversation with the maid . 
Are you a native of this place ? MAID . 
I am not , sir I come from Dinas . 
Are your parents alive ? MAID . 
My mother is alive , sir , but my father is dead . 
Where does your mother live ? MAID . 
How does she support herself ? MAID . 
By letting lodgings to miners , sir . 
Are the miners quiet lodgers ? MAID . 
Not always , sir sometimes they get up at night and fight with each other . 
What does your mother do on those occasions ? MAID . 
She draws the quilt over her head , and says her prayers , sir . 
Why doesn't she get up and part them ? MAID . 
Lest she should get a punch or a thwack for her trouble , sir . 
Of what religion are the miners ? MAID . 
They are Methodists , if they are anything but they don't trouble their heads much about religion . 
Of what religion are you ? MAID . 
I am of the Church , sir . 
Did you always belong to the Church ? MAID . 
When I was at Dinas I used to hear the preacher , but since I have been here I have listened to the clergyman . 
Is the clergyman here a good man ? MAID . 
A very good man indeed , sir . 
Shall I go and tell him you want to speak to him ? MYSELF . 
Oh dear me , no ! He can employ his time much more usefully than in waiting upon me . 
After supper I sat quiet for about an hour . 
Then ringing the bell , I inquired of the maid whether there was a newspaper in the house . 
She told me there was not , but that she thought she could procure me one . 
In a little time she brought me a newspaper , which she said she had borrowed at the parsonage . 
It was the CUMRO , an excellent Welsh journal written in the interest of the Church . 
In perusing its columns I passed a couple of hours very agreeably , and then went to bed . 
CHAPTER LXXVI Mallwyd and its Church Sons of Shoemakers Village Inn Dottings . 
THE next day was the thirty first of October , and was rather fine for the season . 
Mallwyd is a small but pretty village . 
The church is a long edifice standing on a slight elevation on the left of the road . 
An immense yew tree grows in the churchyard , and partly overshadows the road with its branches . 
The parsonage stands about a hundred yards to the south of the church , near a grove of firs . 
The village is overhung on the north by the mountains of the Arran range , from which it is separated by the murmuring Dyfi . 
To the south for many miles the country is not mountainous , but presents a pleasant variety of hill and dale . 
After leaving the village a little way behind me I turned round to take a last view of the wonderful region from which I had emerged on the previous evening . 
Forming the two sides of the pass down which comes the royal river stood the Dinas mountain and Cefn Coch , the first on the left , and the other on the right . 
Behind , forming the background of the pass , appearing , though now some miles distant , almost in my proximity , stood Pen Dyn . 
This hill has various names , but the one which I have noted here , and which signifies the head of a man , perhaps describes it best . 
This mighty mountain is the birthplace of more than one river . 
Just as I was about to pursue my journey two boys came up , bound in the same direction as myself . 
One was a large boy dressed in a waggoner's frock , the other was a little fellow in a brown coat and yellowish trowsers . 
As we walked along together I entered into conversation with them . 
They came from Dinas Mawddwy . 
The large boy told me that he was the son of a man who carted mwyn or lead ore , and the little fellow that he was the son of a shoemaker . 
From this little chap I got a great deal of information about Pen Dyn , every part of which he appeared to have traversed . 
He told me amongst other things that there was a castle upon it . 
Like a true son of a shoemaker , however , he was an arch rogue . 
Where did you get those apples ? said I I hope you did not steal them . 
He made no reply , but bit one , then making a wry face he flung it away , and so he served the other . 
I continued my way with the other lad , occasionally asking him questions about the mines of Mawddwy . 
The information , however , which I obtained from him was next to nothing , for he appeared to be as heavy as the stuff which his father carted . 
At length we reached a village forming a kind of semicircle on a green which looked something like a small English common . 
To the east were beautiful green hills to the west the valley with the river running through it , beyond which rose other green hills yet more beautiful than the eastern ones . 
Descending a hill I came to a bridge , under which ran a beautiful river , which came foaming down from a gulley between two of the eastern hills . 
From a man whom I met I learned that the bridge was called Pont Coomb Linau , and that the name of the village I had passed was Linau . 
The river carries an important tribute to the Dyfi , at least it did when I saw it , though perhaps in summer it is little more than a dry water course . 
Half an hour's walking brought me from this place to a small town or large village , with a church at the entrance and the usual yew tree in the churchyard . 
Seeing a kind of inn I entered it , and was shown by a lad waiter into a large kitchen , in which were several people . 
The people , who were talking fast and eagerly as I made my appearance , instantly became silent and stared at me with most suspicious looks . 
The company are dressed mostly in the same fashion , brown coats , broad brimmed hats , and yellowish corduroy breeches with gaiters . 
One who looks like a labouring man has a white smock and a white hat , patched trowsers , and highlows covered with gravel one has a blue coat . 
There is a clock on the right hand side of the kitchen a warming pan hangs close by it on the projecting side of the chimney corner . 
On the same side is a large rack containing many plates and dishes of Staffordshire ware . 
After walking some fifty yards down the street I turned half round and beheld , as I knew I should , the whole company at the door staring after me . 
I leered sideways at them for about half a minute , but they stood my leer stoutly . 
Suddenly I was inspired by a thought . 
Turning round I confronted them , and pulling my note book out of my pocket , and seizing my pencil , I fell to dotting vigorously . 
That was too much for them . 
The name of the place where this adventure occurred was Cemmaes . 
CHAPTER LXXVII The Deaf Man Funeral Procession The Lone Family The Welsh and their Secrets The Vale of the Dyfi The Bright Moon . 
It was no longer no English , but no hearing . 
Presently I met one yet more deaf . 
A large procession of men came along the road . 
Some distance behind them was a band of women and between the two bands was a kind of bier drawn by a horse with plumes at each of the four corners . 
I took off my hat and stood close against the hedge on the right hand side till the dead had passed me some way to its final home . 
Crossed a river , which like that on the other side of Cemmaes streamed down from a gulley between two hills into the valley of the Dyfi . 
Beyond the bridge on the right hand side of the road was a pretty cottage , just as there was in the other locality . 
A fine tall woman stood at the door , with a little child beside her . 
I stopped and inquired in English whose body it was that had just been borne by . 
That of a young man , sir , the son of a farmer , who lives a mile or so up the road . 
He seems to have plenty of friends . 
Oh yes , sir , the Welsh have plenty of friends both in life and death . 
A'n't you Welsh , then ? WOMAN . 
Oh no , sir , I am English , like yourself , as I suppose . 
Yes , I am English . 
What part of England do you come from ? WOMAN . 
Is that little child yours ? WOMAN . 
Yes , sir , it is my husband's child and mine . 
I suppose your husband is Welsh . 
Oh no , sir , we are all English . 
And what is your husband ? WOMAN . 
A little farmer , sir , he farms about forty acres under Mrs . 
Well , are you comfortable here ? WOMAN . 
Oh dear me , no , sir , we are anything but comfortable . 
Here we are three poor lone creatures in a strange land , without a soul to speak to but one another . 
Every day of our lives we wish we had never left Shropshire . 
Why don't you make friends amongst your neighbours ? WOMAN . 
Oh , sir , the English cannot make friends amongst the Welsh . 
The Welsh won't neighbour with them , or have anything to do with them , except now and then in the way of business . 
I have occasionally found the Welsh very civil . 
Would they be uncivil to me if I could speak Welsh ? WOMAN . 
Most particularly , sir the Welsh don't like any strangers , but least of all those who speak their language . 
Have you picked up anything of their language ? WOMAN . 
Not a word , sir , nor my husband neither . 
They take good care that we shouldn't pick up a word of their language . 
So my poor husband came home as pale as a sheet , and sitting down in a chair said , Lord , have mercy upon me ! MYSELF . 
Why are the Welsh afraid that strangers should pick up their language ? WOMAN . 
Lest , perhaps , they should learn their secrets , sir ! MYSELF . 
What secrets have they ? WOMAN . 
The Lord above only knows , sir ! MYSELF . 
Do you think they are hatching treason against Queen Victoria ? WOMAN . 
Oh dear no , sir . 
Is there much murder going on amongst them ? WOMAN . 
Nothing of the kind , sir . 
Oh no , sir ! MYSELF . 
No , sir ! MYSELF . 
Duck or hen stealing ? WOMAN . 
Haven't lost a duck or hen since I have been here , sir . 
Then what secrets can they possibly have ? WOMAN . 
I don't know , sir ! perhaps none at all , or at most only a pack of small nonsense that nobody would give three farthings to know . 
However , it is quite certain they are as jealous of strangers hearing their discourse as if they were plotting gunpowder treason or something worse . 
Have you been long here ? WOMAN . 
Only since last May , sir ! and we hope to get away by next , and return to our own country , where we shall have some one to speak to . 
Good bye , sir , and thank you for your conversation I haven't had such a treat of talk for many a weary day . 
The Vale of the Dyfi became wider and more beautiful as I advanced . 
The river ran at the bottom amidst green and seemingly rich meadows . 
The hills on the farther side were cultivated a great way up , and various neat farm houses were scattered here and there on their sides . 
At the foot of one of the most picturesque of these hills stood a large white village . 
I wished very much to know its name , but saw no one of whom I could inquire . 
I proceeded for about a mile , and then perceiving a man wheeling stones in a barrow for the repairing of the road I thought I would inquire of him . 
I did so , but the village was then out of sight , and though I pointed in its direction and described its situation I could not get its name out of him . 
At last I said hastily , Can you tell me your own name ? Dafydd Tibbot , sir , said he . 
Tibbot , Tibbot , said I why , you are a Frenchman . 
How striking that the proud old Norman names are at present only borne by people in the lowest station . 
Here's a Tibbot or Tibault harrowing stones on a Welsh road , and I have known a Mortimer munching poor cheese and bread under a hedge on an English one . 
This bridge is about a mile from Machynlleth , at which place I arrived at about five o'clock in the evening a cool , bright moon shining upon me . 
I put up at the principal inn , which was of course called the Wynstay Arms . 
CHAPTER LXXVIII Welsh Poems Sessions Business The Lawyer and his Client The Court The Two Keepers The Defence . 
DURING supper I was waited upon by a brisk , buxom maid who told me that her name was Mary Evans . 
The repast over , I ordered a glass of whiskey and water , and when it was brought I asked the maid if she could procure me some book to read . 
She said she was not aware of any book in the house which she could lay her hand on except one of her own , which if I pleased she would lend me . 
I begged her to do so . 
Whereupon she went out and presently returned with a very small volume , which she laid on the table and then retired . 
After taking a sip of my whiskey and water I proceeded to examine it . 
It turned out to be a volume of Welsh poems entitled Blodau Glyn Dyfi or , Flowers of Glyn Dyfi , by one Lewis Meredith , whose poetical name is Lewis Glyn Dyfi . 
The author indites his preface from Cemmaes , June , . 
The best piece is called Dyffryn Dyfi , and is descriptive of the scenery of the vale through which the Dyfi runs . 
It commences thus Heddychol ddyffryn tlws , Peaceful , pretty vale , and contains many lines breathing a spirit of genuine poetry . 
The next day I did not get up till nine , having no journey before me , as I intended to pass that day at Machynlleth . 
When I went down to the parlour I found another guest there , breakfasting . 
He was a tall , burly , and clever looking man of about thirty five . 
As we breakfasted together at the same table we entered into conversation . 
I asked him who his client was . 
A farmer , said he , a tenant of Lord V , who will probably preside over the bench which will try the affair . 
Oh , said I , a tenant spearing his landlord's fish that's bad . 
There's the evidence of two keepers against him one of whom I hope , however , to make appear a scoundrel , in whose oath the slightest confidence is not to be placed . 
I shouldn't wonder if I make my client appear a persecuted lamb . 
The worst is , that he has the character of being rather fond of fish , indeed of having speared more salmon than any other six individuals in the neighbourhood . 
Not we , said the attorney that is , unless we speak Welsh , for he understands not a word of any other language . 
Not wishing to hear any of their conversation I finished my breakfast as soon as possible and left the room . 
Going into the inn yard I had a great deal of learned discourse with an old ostler about the glanders in horses . 
From the inn yard I went to my own private room and made some dottings in my note book , and then went down again to the parlour , which I found unoccupied . 
The magistrates , upon the whole , were rather a fine body of men . 
Lord V was in the chair , a highly intelligent looking person , with fresh complexion , hooked nose , and dark hair . 
A policeman very civilly procured me a commodious seat . 
I had scarcely taken possession of it when the poaching case was brought forward . 
The first witness against the accused was a fellow dressed in a dirty snuff coloured suit , with a debauched look , and having much the appearance of a town shack . 
He was attended by a dog . 
The attorney then got up and began to cross question him . 
How long have you been a keeper ? About a fortnight . 
What do you get a week ? Ten shillings . 
Have you not lately been in London ? I have . 
What induced you to go to London ? The hope of bettering my condition . 
Were you not driven out of Machynlleth ? I was not . 
Why did you leave London ? Because I could get no work , and my wife did not like the place . 
Did you obtain possession of the salmon and the spear ? I did not . 
Why didn't you ? The pool was deep where the salmon was struck , and I was not going to lose my life by going into it . 
How deep was it ? Over the tops of the houses , said the fellow , lifting up his hands . 
He had no English , and what he said was translated by a sworn interpreter . 
He gave the same evidence as his brother about watching behind the bush , and seeing the farmer strike a salmon . 
When cross questioned , however , he said that no words passed between the farmer and his brother , at least , that he heard . 
The evidence for the prosecution being given , my friend the attorney entered upon the defence . 
He would rest the issue of the affair with confidence , on one argument , on one question it was this . 
It's no go I shall leave the case as it is . 
They fined him four pounds , including costs . 
As the people were going out I said to the farmer in Welsh A bad affair this . 
Drwg iawn very bad indeed , he replied . 
Did these fellows speak truth ? said I. Nage Dim ond celwydd not they ! nothing but lies . 
Dear me ! said I to myself , what an ill treated individual ! CHAPTER LXXIX Machynlleth Remarkable Events Ode to Glendower Dafydd Gam Lawdden's Hatchet . 
It possesses a stately church , parts of which are of considerable antiquity , and one or two good streets . 
It is a thoroughly Welsh town , and the inhabitants , who amount in number to about four thousand , speak the ancient British language with considerable purity . 
Machynlleth has been the scene of remarkable events , and is connected with remarkable names , some of which have rung through the world . 
Of Horsa's seed on hill and plain Four hundred thousand he has slain . 
The copestone of our nation's he , In him our weal , our all we see Though calm he looks his plans when breeding , Yet oaks he'd break his clans when leading . 
This man , whose surname Gam signifies crooked , was a petty chieftain of Breconshire . 
He was small of stature and deformed in person , though possessed of great strength . 
He was very sensitive of injury , though quite as alive to kindness a thorough going enemy and a thorough going friend . 
Bolingbroke , on becoming King Henry the Fourth , not only restored the crooked little Welshman to his possessions , but gave him employments of great trust and profit in Herefordshire . 
He therefore went to Machynlleth with the full intention of stabbing Glendower , perfectly indifferent as to what might subsequently be his own fate . 
Glendower , however , who had heard of his threat , caused him to be seized and conducted in chains to a prison which he had in the mountains of Sycharth . 
Connected with Machynlleth is a name not so widely celebrated as those of Glendower and Dafydd Gam , but well known to and cherished by the lovers of Welsh song . 
It is that of Lawdden , a Welsh bard in holy orders , who officiated as priest at Machynlleth from to . 
But though Machynlleth was his place of residence for many years , it was not the place of his birth , Lychwr in Carmarthenshire being the spot where he first saw the light . 
CHAPTER LXXX The Old Ostler Directions Church of England Man The Deep Dingle The Two Women The Cutty Pipe Waen y Bwlch The Deaf and Dumb The Glazed Hat . 
After paying my bill I went into the yard to my friend the old ostler , to make inquiries with respect to the road . 
Is their much difference between the roads ? A great deal , sir one is over the hills , and the other round by the valleys . 
The way over the hills is an awful road , and , indeed , for the greater part is no road at all . 
Well , I shall go by it . 
Can't you give me some directions ? I'll do my best , sir , but I tell you again that the road is a horrible one , and very hard to find . 
Leaving Machynlleth , I ascended a steep hill which rises to the south of it . 
From the top of this hill there is a fine view of the town , the river , and the whole valley of the Dyfi . 
After stopping for a few minutes to enjoy the prospect I went on . 
The road at first was exceedingly good , though up and down , and making frequent turnings . 
The scenery was beautiful to a degree lofty hills were on either side , clothed most luxuriantly with trees of various kinds , but principally oaks . 
This is really very pleasant , said I , but I suppose it is too good to last long . 
However , I went on for a considerable way , the road neither deteriorating nor the scenery decreasing in beauty . 
Surely I can't be in the right road , said I I wish I had an opportunity of asking . 
I was told that the road thither was a very bad one , said I , but this is quite the contrary . 
This road does not go much farther , sir , said he it was made to accommodate grand folks who live about here . 
You speak very good English , said I where did you get it ? He looked pleased , and said that in his youth he had lived some years in England . 
Can you read ? said I. Oh yes , said he , both Welsh and English . 
What have you read in Welsh ? said I. The Bible and Twm O'r Nant . 
What pieces of Twm O'r Nant have you read ? I have read two of his interludes and his life . 
And which do you like best his life or his interludes ? Oh , I like his life best . 
And what part of his life do you like best ? Oh , I like that part best where he gets the ship into the water at Abermarlais . 
But do the Methodists about here in general read Twm O'r Nant ? I don't know , said be I am no Methodist . 
Do you belong to the Church ? I do . 
And why do you belong to the Church ? Because I believe it is the best religion to get to heaven by . 
I am much of your opinion , said I. Are there many Church people about here ? Not many , said he , but more than when I was young . 
How old are you ? Sixty nine . 
You are not very old , said I. An't I ? I only want one year of fulfilling my proper time on earth . 
I thanked him , and proceeded on my way . 
My course lay now over very broken ground where there was no path , at least that I could perceive . 
I wandered on for some time at length on turning round a bluff I saw a lad tending a small herd of bullocks . 
Am I in the road , said I , to the Pont y Gwr Drwg ? Nis gwn ! I don't know , said he sullenly . 
I am a hired servant , and have only been here a little time . 
Where's the house , said I , where you serve ? But as he made no answer I left him . 
Descending a steep path , I knocked at the door . 
After a little time it was opened , and two women appeared , one behind the other . 
The other seemed about twenty years younger she had dark features , was dressed like the other , but had no hat . 
I saluted the first in English , and asked her the way to the Bridge , whereupon she uttered a deep guttural augh and turned away her head , seemingly in abhorrence . 
I then spoke to her in Welsh , saying I was a foreign man I did not say a Saxon was bound to the Devil's Bridge , and wanted to know the way . 
I proceeded in the direction indicated , winding round the side of the hill , the same mountain which the old man had pointed out to me some time before . 
I went forward and ascended the side of the hill before me , and presently came to a path running east and west . 
I followed it a little way towards the east . 
I was now just above the house , and saw some children and some dogs standing beside it . 
He was about fifty years of age , with a carbuncled countenance , high but narrow forehead , grey eyebrows , and small , malignant grey eyes . 
He had a white hat , with narrow eaves and the crown partly knocked out , a torn blue coat , corduroy breeches , long stockings and highlows . 
He was sucking a cutty pipe , but seemed unable to extract any smoke from it . 
He had all the appearance of a vagabond , and of a rather dangerous vagabond . 
I nodded to him , and asked him in Welsh the name of the place . 
I asked him where he came from , but he evaded the question by asking where I was going to . 
To the Pont y Gwr Drwg , said I. He then asked me if I was an Englishman . 
Oh yes , said I , I am Carn Sais whereupon , with a strange mixture in his face of malignity and contempt , he answered in English that he didn't understand me . 
You understood me very well , said I , without changing my language , till I told you I was an Englishman . 
Harkee , man with the broken hat , you are one of the bad Welsh who don't like the English to know the language , lest they should discover your lies and rogueries . 
He evidently understood what I said , for he gnashed his teeth , though he said nothing . 
I soon reached the bottom and advanced towards the house . 
The dogs had all along been barking violently as I drew near to them , however , they ceased , and two of the largest came forward wagging their tails . 
The dogs were not barking at me , said I , but at that vagabond above . 
I went up to the children they were four in number , two boys and two girls , all red haired , but tolerably good looking . 
They had neither shoes nor stockings . 
What is the name of this house ? said I to the eldest , a boy about seven years old . 
He looked at me , but made no answer . 
I repeated my question still there was no answer , but methought I heard a humph of triumph from the hill . 
I am all right , said I to myself that is one of the names of the places which the old ostler said I must go through . 
Then addressing myself to the child I said Where's your father and mother ? Out on the hill , whispered the child . 
What's your father ? A shepherd . 
That question was evidently beyond the child's capacity . 
Thank you ! said I , and turning round I regained the path on the top of the bank . 
The fellow and his donkey were still there . 
I had no difficulty , said I , in obtaining information the place's name is Waen y Bwlch . 
But oes genoch dim Cumraeg you have no Welsh . 
Thereupon I proceeded along the path in the direction of the east . 
Forthwith the fellow said something to his animal , and both came following fast behind . 
I quickened my pace , but the fellow and his beast were close in my rear . 
Presently I came to a place where another path branched off to the south . 
I stopped , looked at it , and then went on , but scarcely had done so when I heard another exulting humph behind . 
I am going wrong , said I to myself that other path is the way to the Devil's Bridge , and the scamp knows it or he would not have grunted . 
Forthwith I faced round , and brushing past the fellow without a word turned into the other path and hurried along it . 
In a little time I came to a slough which crossed the path . 
I , however , pushed forward , and with some difficulty got to the path on the other side of the slough . 
I followed the path , and in about half an hour saw what appeared to be houses at a distance . 
God grant that I maybe drawing near some inhabited place ! said I. The path now grew very miry , and there were pools of water on either side . 
At length I came to a place where some men were busy in erecting a kind of building . 
I went up to the nearest and asked him the name of the place . 
He had a crowbar in his hand , was half naked , had a wry mouth and only one eye . 
He made me no answer , but mowed and gibbered at me . 
For God's sake , said I , don't do so , but tell me where I am ! He still uttered no word , but mowed and gibbered yet more frightfully than before . 
As I stood staring at him another man came to me and said in broken English It is of no use speaking to him , sir , he is deaf and dumb . 
I am glad he is no worse , said I , for I really thought he was possessed with the evil one . 
My good person , can you tell me the name of this place ? Esgyrn Hirion , sir , said he . 
Esgyrn Hirion , said I to myself Esgyrn means 'bones , and Hirion means 'long . 
I am doubtless at the place which the old ostler called Long Bones . 
I shouldn't wonder if I get to the Devil's Bridge to night after all . 
He then proceeded towards a row of buildings , which were , in fact , those objects which I had guessed to be houses in the distance . 
I went up to the man , and , saluting him in English , asked whether he could direct me to the Devil's Bridge , or rather to Pont Erwyd . 
It would be of no use directing you , sir , said he , for with all the directions in the world it would be impossible for you to find the way . 
You would not have left these premises five minutes before you would be in a maze without knowing which way to turn . 
Where do you come from ? From Machynlleth , I replied . 
From Machynlleth ! said he . 
Well , I only wonder you ever got here , but it would be madness to go farther alone . 
Well , said I , can I obtain a guide ? I really don't know , said he I am afraid all the men are engaged . 
As we were speaking a young man made his appearance at the door from the interior of the house . 
He was dressed in a brown short coat , had a glazed hat on his head , and had a pale but very intelligent countenance . 
What is the matter ? said he to the other man . 
This gentleman , replied the latter , is going to Pont Erwyd , and wants a guide . 
Well , said the young man , we must find him one . 
It will never do to let him go by himself . 
If you can find me a guide , said I , I shall be happy to pay him for his trouble . 
But pray walk in and sit down , for you must be tired . 
CHAPTER LXXXI The Mining Compting Room Native of Aberystwyth Story of a Bloodhound The Young Girls The Miner's Tale Gwen Frwd The Terfyn . 
I FOLLOWED the young man with the glazed hat into a room , the other man following behind me . 
He of the glazed hat made me sit down before a turf fire , apologising for its smoking very much . 
The room seemed half compting room , half apartment . 
After I had sat for about a minute , the young man asked me if I would take any refreshment . 
I thanked him for his kind offer , which I declined , saying , however , that if he would obtain me a guide I should feel much obliged . 
He turned to the other man and told him to go and inquire whether there was any one who would be willing to go . 
The other nodded , and forthwith went out . 
But I must tell you , that if we do find you a guide , it will probably be one who has no English . 
Never mind , said I , I have enough Welsh to hold a common discourse . 
A fine girl about fourteen now came in , and began bustling about . 
Has she any English ? said I. Not a word , he replied . 
The young people of these hills have no English , except they go abroad to learn it . 
What hills are these ? said I. Part of the Plynlimmon range , said he . 
Dear me , said I , am I near Plynlimmon ? Not very far from it , said the young man , and you will be nearer when you reach Pont Erwyd . 
I do not believe there is a healthier spot in all Wales . 
We had some further discourse . 
I mentioned to him the adventure which I had on the hill with the fellow with the donkey . 
The young man said that he had no doubt that he was some prowling thief . 
The dogs of the shepherd's house , said I , didn't seem to like him , and dogs generally know an evil customer . 
A long time ago I chanced to be in a posada , or inn , at Valladolid in Spain . 
There was then a dreadful noise , in which the cries of a human being and the yells of the hound were blended . 
I forthwith started up and ran down , followed by several other guests , who came rushing out of their chambers round the corridor . 
At the gate we saw a man on the ground and the hound trying to strangle him . 
The assailed person was a very powerful man , but had an evil countenance , was badly dressed , and had neither hat , shoes nor stockings . 
We raised him up and gave him wine , which he drank greedily , and presently , without saying a word , disappeared . 
The master said that it was the first time that the dog had ever attacked any one or shown the slightest symptom of ferocity . 
In about twenty minutes he did so . 
He was a stout young fellow with a coarse blue coat , and coarse white felt hat he held a stick in his hand . 
The kind young book keeper now advised us to set out without delay , as the day was drawing to a close and the way was long . 
I shook him by the hand , told him that I should never forget his civility , and departed with the guide . 
The fine young girl , whom I have already mentioned , and another about two years younger , departed with us . 
They were dressed in the graceful female attire of old Wales . 
We bore to the south down a descent , and came to some moory , quaggy ground intersected with water courses . 
The agility of the young girls surprised me they sprang over the water courses , some of which were at least four feet wide , with the ease and alacrity of lawns . 
After a short time we came to a road , which , however , we did not long reap the benefit of , as it only led to a mine . 
Seeing a house on the top of a hill , I asked my guide whose it was . 
Ty powdr , said he , a powder house , by which I supposed he meant a magazine of powder used for blasting in the mines . 
He had not a word of English . 
If the young girls were nimble with their feet , they were not less so with their tongues , as they kept up an incessant gabble with each other and with the guide . 
I understood little of what they said , their volubility preventing me from catching more than a few words . 
I entered into conversation with my guide . 
After a little time he asked me if I was a Welshman . 
You could teach many a Welshman , said he . 
Why do you think so ? said I. Because many of your words are quite above my comprehension , said he . 
No great compliment , thought I to myself but putting a good face upon the matter I told him that I knew a great many old Welsh words . 
Is Potosi an old Welsh word ? said he . 
No , said I it is the name of a mine in the Deheubarth of America . 
Is it a lead mine ? No ! said I , it is a silver mine . 
Well , said he , I have frequently asked , but could never learn before why our mine was called Potosi . 
He told me that he did not know , but believed that the bones of a cawr or giant had been found there in ancient times . 
I asked him if the mine was deep . 
Very deep , he replied . 
Do you like the life of a miner ? said I. Very much , said he , and should like it more , but for the noises of the hill . 
Sometimes they make such noises as frighten the poor fellow who works underground out of his senses . 
Once on a time I was working by myself very deep underground , in a little chamber to which a very deep shaft led . 
'Oh God ! said I , and fell backwards , letting the light fall , which instantly went out . 
I thought the whole shaft had given way , and that I was buried alive . 
I lay for several hours half stupefied , thinking now and then what a dreadful thing it was to be buried alive . 
So I got up and tottered to the mouth of the shaft , put out my hand and felt nothing all was clear . 
I went forward , and presently felt the ladder . 
Nothing had fallen all was just the same as when I came down . 
The noise was caused by the spirits of the hill in the hope of driving the miner out of his senses . 
I shall never forget how I felt when I thought I was buried alive . 
If it were not for those noises in the hill , the life of a miner would be quite heaven below . 
We came to a cottage standing under a hillock , down the side of which tumbled a streamlet close by the northern side of the building . 
The door was open , and inside were two or three females and some children . 
Have you any enwyn ? said the lad , peeping in . 
I asked her the name of the place . 
Gwen Frwd the 'Fair Rivulet , said she . 
Who lives here ? A shepherd . 
Have you any English ? Nagos ! said she , bursting into a loud laugh . 
I inquired of my guide whether it was Plynlimmon . 
Oh no ! said he , that is Gaverse Pumlimmon is to the left . 
Plynlimmon is a famed hill , said I I suppose it is very high . 
Night was now coming rapidly on , attended with a drizzling rain . 
I inquired if we were far from Pont Erwyd . 
About a mile , said my guide we shall soon be there . 
After a little time he asked me if I was going farther than Pont Erwyd . 
I am bound for the bridge of the evil man , said I but I daresay I shall stop at Pont Erwyd to night . 
You will do right , said he it is only three miles from Pont Erwyd to the bridge of the evil man , but I think we shall have a stormy night . 
The rain now fell fast and there was so thick a mist that I could only see a few yards before me . 
We descended into a valley , at the bottom of which I heard a river roaring . 
That's the Rheidol , said my guide , coming from Pumlimmon , swollen with rain . 
CHAPTER LXXXII Consequential Landlord Cheek Darfel Gatherel Dafydd Nanmor Sheep Farms Wholesome Advice The Old Postman The Plant de Bat The Robber's Cavern . 
MY guide went to a side door , and opening it without ceremony went in . 
There were several people present , some on the settle and others on chairs in the vicinity of the fire . 
As I advanced , a man arose from a chair and came towards me . 
He was about thirty five years of age , well and strongly made , with a fresh complexion , a hawk nose , and a keen grey eye . 
He wore top boots and breeches , a half jockey coat , and had a round cap made of the skin of some animal on his head . 
Servant , sir ! said he in rather a sharp tone , and surveying me with something of a supercilious air . 
Your most obedient humble servant ! said I I presume you are the landlord of this house . 
I hire the principal part of the land in this neighbourhood . 
Oh , as you are here , said the farmer landlord , I hope you will stay . 
I should be very sorry if any gentleman should leave my house at night after coming with an intention of staying , more especially in a night like this . 
Martha forthwith hurried away , attended by a much younger female . 
First of all , however , I must settle with my guide , and likewise see that he has something to eat and drink . 
Shall I interpret for you ? said the landlord the lad has not a word of English I know him well . 
I have not been under his guidance for the last three hours , said I , without knowing that he cannot speak English but I want no interpreter . 
More than enough , sir , said the lad I did not expect half as much . 
Farewell ! He was then about to depart , but I prevented him saying You must not go till you have eaten and drunk . 
What will you have ? Merely a cup of ale , sir , said the lad . 
That won't do , said I you shall have bread and cheese and as much ale as you can drink . 
Pray , said I to the landlord , let this young man have some bread and cheese and a large quart of ale . 
Cheek , said I cheek ! Is that a Welsh word ? Surely it is an importation from the English , and not a very genteel one . 
Oh come , sir ! said the landlord , we can dispense with your criticisms . 
Dear me ! said I , how fortunate I am ! a person thoroughly versed in the ancient British language is what I have long wished to see . 
What I want to know is , the meaning of the name , which I could never get explained , but which you who know the ancient British language perfectly can doubtless interpret . 
I am a poet , sir a prydydd . 
It is singular enough , said I , that the only two Welsh poets I have seen have been innkeepers one is yourself , the other a person I met in Anglesey . 
I suppose the Muse is fond of cwrw da . 
Before I go , said I , I should like to see my guide provided with what I ordered . 
Hey ? Really , sir , said the landlord , I don't know how to reply to you , for the greater part of your discourse is utterly unintelligible to me . 
Perhaps you are a better Welshman than myself but however that may be , I shall take the liberty of retiring in order to give orders about your supper . 
In about half an hour the supper made its appearance in the shape of some bacon and eggs . 
On tasting them I found them very good , and calling for some ale I made a very tolerable supper . 
After the things had been removed I drew near to the fire , but as it still smoked , I soon betook myself to the kitchen . 
My guide had taken his departure , but the others whom I had left were still there . 
The landlord was talking in Welsh to a man in a rough great coat , about sheep . 
Really , sir , the kitchen is not the place for a gentleman . 
Yes , it is , said I , provided the parlour smokes . 
Come , come , I am going to have a glass of whiskey and water perhaps you will take one with me . 
Well , sir ! said the landlord , in rather a softened tone , I have no objection to take a glass with you . 
Two glasses of whiskey and water were presently brought , and the landlord and I drank to each other's health . 
Is this a sheep district ? said I , after a pause of a minute or two . 
Yes , sir , said the landlord it may to a certain extent be called a sheep district . 
I suppose the Southdown and Norfolk breeds would not do for these here parts , said I , with a regular Norfolk whine . 
No , sir , I don't think they would exactly , said the landlord , staring at me . 
Do you know anything about sheep ? Plenty , plenty , said I quite as much indeed as about Welsh words and poetry . 
My real business in this neighbourhood is to see the Devil's Bridge and the scenery about it . 
Very good , sir , said the landlord I thought so at first . 
A great many English go to see the Devil's Bridge and the scenery near it , though I really don't know why , for there is nothing so very particular in either . 
Yet everybody goes to the Devil's Bridge and nobody comes here ! You might easily bring everybody here , said I , if you would but employ your talent . 
I make no doubt , however , that I was a restraint upon them they frequently glanced at me , and soon fell to whispering . 
At last both got up and left the room , the landlord finishing his glass of whiskey and water before he went away . 
Yes , said I , I am going to have a sight of the bridge and the neighbouring scenery . 
Well , sir , I don't think you will be disappointed , for both are wonderful . 
Are you a Welshman ? said I. No , sir , I am not I am an Englishman from Durham , which is the best county in England . 
So it is , said I for some things at any rate . 
And does he follow mining ? No , sir , he does not he carries about the letters . 
Is your mine near this place ? Not very , sir it is nearer the Devil's Bridge . 
Very wicked children they were from their cradle , giving their father and mother much trouble and uneasiness no good in any one of them , neither in the boys nor the girl . 
Now the boys , once when they were rambling idly about , lighted by chance upon a cave near the Devil's Bridge . 
Very strange cave it was , with just one little hole at top to go in by so the boys said to one another 'Nice cave this for thief to live in . 
Suppose we come here when we are a little more big and turn thief ourselves . 
But as de pitcher which goes often to de well comes home broke at last , so it happened with Bat's children . 
That , master , is what they says in dese parts about the Plant de Bat . 
It is on the bank of the river Mynach , just before it joins the Rheidol . 
Many gentlefolk in de summer go to see the Plant de Bat's cave . 
Are you sure , said I , that Plant de Bat means Bat's children ? I am not sure , master I merely says what I have heard other people say . 
I believe some says that it means 'the wicked children , or 'the Devil's children . 
CHAPTER LXXXIII Wild Scenery Awful Chasm John Greaves Durham County Queen Philippa The Two Aldens Welsh Wife The Noblest Business The Welsh and the Salve The Lad John . 
A RAINY and boisterous night was succeeded by a bright and beautiful morning . 
I arose and having ordered breakfast went forth to see what kind of country I had got into . 
I found myself amongst wild , strange looking hills , not , however , of any particular height . 
The banks are sheer walls , from sixty to a hundred feet high , and the bed of the river has all the appearance of a volcanic rent . 
A brook , running from the south past the inn , tumbles into the chasm at an angle , and forms the cascade whose sound had lulled me to sleep the preceding night . 
I soon reached the bottom of the valley , where are a few houses and the bridge from which the place takes its name , Pont Erwyd signifying the bridge of Erwyd . 
Good day , sir , said he , stopping , when he came upon the bridge . 
Yes , I am bound your way , provided you are going to the Devil's Bridge . 
Then , sir , we can go together , for I am bound to my mine , which lies only a little way t'other side of the Devil's Bridge . 
Crossing the bridge of Erwyd , we directed our course to the south east . 
And what may your name be , if I may take the liberty of asking ? Greaves , sir John Greaves from the county of Durham . 
You really had better let the boy carry your bag , sir . 
No , said I , I would rather carry it myself . 
I question upon the whole whether there is a better county in England . 
Is it long since your honour was in Durham county ? A good long time . 
A matter of forty years . 
Forty years ! why that's the life of a man . 
That's longer than I have been out of the county myself . 
I suppose your honour can't remember much about the county . 
Oh yes , I can ! I remember a good deal . 
Please , your honour , tell me what you remember about the county . 
It would do me good to hear it . 
Well , I remember it was a very fine county in more respects than one . 
Oh dear , oh dear ! said my companion . 
Ah ! I see your honour knows everything about Durham county . 
Forces ? none but one who had been in Durham county would have used that word . 
I haven't heard it for five and thirty years . 
Forces ! there was a force close to my village . 
I wonder if your honour has ever been in Durham city ? Oh yes ! I have been there . 
Does your honour remember anything about Durham city ? Oh yes ! I remember a good deal about it . 
Then , your honour , pray tell us what you remember about it pray do I perhaps it will do me good . 
Dear me ! Ah , I see your honour knows all about Durham city . 
And now let me ask one question . 
How came your honour to Durham , city and county ? I don't think your honour is a Durham man either of town or field . 
I am not but when I was a little boy I passed through Durham county with my mother and brother to a place called Scotland . 
Scotland ! a queer country that , your honour ! So it is , said I a queerer country I never saw in all my life . 
And a queer set of people , your honour . 
So they are , said I a queerer set of people than the Scotch you would scarcely see in a summer's day . 
The Durham folks , neither of town or field , have much reason to speak well of the Scotch , your honour . 
I dare say not , said I very few people have . 
And yet the Durham folks , your honour , generally contrived to give them as good as they brought . 
So they did , your honour , and under the command of a woman too . 
Very true , said I Queen Philippa . 
How did you come here ? I had better begin from the beginning , your honour . 
I was born in Durham county close beside the Great Force , which no doubt your honour has seen . 
My father was a farmer , and had a bit of a share in a mining concern . 
There had long been mines in Wales , but they had always been worked in a poor , weak , languid manner , very different from that of the north country . 
Well , after they had been here a little time they found themselves in want of a man to superintend their concerns , above all in the smelting department . 
The company was terribly set to it for a long time , spending a mint of money and getting very poor returns . 
To my certain knowledge , the two Aldens , George and Tom , spent between them thirty thousand pounds . 
In their service I have been for five and thirty years , and daresay shall continue so till I die . 
I thought I should have gone wild at first , your honour having , however , always plenty to do , I at last got the better of my affliction . 
And now your honour knows the whole story of John Greaves , miner from the county of Durham . 
Who was that ? said I Who was it , your honour ? why , the Duke of Newcastle . 
Well , he hadn't been long settled there before he found me out and took wonderfully to me , discoursing with me and consulting me about his farming and improvements . 
Lord ! I would have laid down my life for his Grace and have done anything but one which he once asked me to do . 
'Greaves , said the Duke to me one day , 'I wish you would give up mining and become my steward . 
'Sorry I can't oblige your Grace , said I , 'but give up mining I cannot . 
Whereupon his Grace laughed , and said he dare say I was right , and never mentioned the subject again . 
Was his Grace very fond of farming and improving ? Oh yes , your honour . 
His grand feat , however , was bringing the Durham bull into this country , which formed a capital cross with the Welsh cows . 
Pity that he wasn't equally fortunate with the north country sheep . 
Did he try to introduce them into Wales ? Yes , but they didn't answer , as I knew they wouldn't . 
Well , so I did , your honour . 
So to prevent a regular rebellion , the Duke gave up the salve , and the poor sheep pined away and died , till at last there was not one left . 
This village , said my companion , is called Ysbytty Cynfyn . 
Down on the right , past the church , is a strange bridge across the Rheidol , which runs there through a horrid kind of a place . 
The bridge is called Pont yr Offeiriad , or the Parson's Bridge , because in the old time the clergyman passed over it every Sunday to do duty in the church here . 
But to return to the matter of the Minister's Bridge I would counsel your honour to go and see that bridge before you leave these parts . 
A vast number of gentry go to see it in the summer time . 
We went on discoursing for about half a mile farther , when , stopping by a road which branched off to the hills on the left , my companion said . 
I shook the honest fellow by the hand , and went on in company with the lad John and his dog as far as the Devil's Bridge . 
CHAPTER LXXXIV The Hospice The Two Rivers The Devil's Bridge Pleasant Recollections . 
It is an immense lofty cottage with projecting eaves , and has a fine window to the east which enlightens a stately staircase and a noble gallery . 
Far to the west is a tall , strange looking hill , the top of which bears no slight resemblance to that of a battlemented castle . 
This hill , which is believed to have been in ancient times a stronghold of the Britons , bears the name of Bryn y Castell , or the hill of the castle . 
To the north west are russet hills , to the east two brown paps , whilst to the south is a high , swelling mountain . 
The Rheidol , falling over a rocky precipice at the northern side of the hollow , forms a cataract very pleasant to look upon from the middle upper window of the inn . 
Those of the Mynach which pass under the celebrated Devil's Bridge are not visible , though they generally make themselves heard . 
The waters of both , after uniting , flow away through a romantic glen towards the west . 
The sides of the hollow , and indeed of most of the ravines in the neighbourhood , which are numerous , are beautifully clad with wood . 
Penetrate now into the hollow above which the hospice stands . 
You descend by successive flights of steps , some of which are very slippery and insecure . 
On your right is the Monks' River , roaring down its dingle in five successive falls , to join its brother the Rheidol . 
Each of the falls has its own peculiar basin , one or two of which are said to be of awful depth . 
The length which these falls with their basins occupy is about five hundred feet . 
At present it is nearly open on every side , having , it is said , been destroyed to prevent its being the haunt of other evil people . 
There is a tradition in the country that the fall at one time tumbled over its mouth . 
This tradition , however , is evidently without foundation , as from the nature of the ground the river could never have run but in its present channel . 
Your position here is a wild one . 
But from the steps in the hollow the view of the Devil's Bridge , and likewise of the cleft , is very slight and unsatisfactory . 
On your right is a slit , probably caused by volcanic force , through which the waters after whirling in the cauldron eventually escape . 
The slit is wonderfully narrow , considering its altitude which is very great considerably upwards of a hundred feet . 
CHAPTER LXXXV Dinner at the Hospice Evening Gossip A Day of Rain A Scanty Flock The Bridge of the Minister Legs in Danger . 
I DINED in a parlour of the inn commanding an excellent view of the hollow and the Rheidol fall . 
Shortly after I had dined , a fierce storm of rain and wind came on . 
It lasted for an hour , and then everything again became calm . 
Just before evening was closing in I took a stroll to a village which stands a little way to the west of the inn . 
It consists only of a few ruinous edifices , and is chiefly inhabited by miners and their families . 
I saw no men , but plenty of women and children . 
Seeing a knot of women and girls chatting I went up and addressed them . 
Some of the girls were very good looking none of the party had any English all of them were very civil . 
I first talked to them about religion , and found that , without a single exception , they were Calvinistic Methodists . 
I next talked to them about the Plant de Bat . 
They laughed heartily at the first mention of their name , but seemed to know very little about their history . 
After some twenty minutes' discourse I bade them good night and returned to my inn . 
The night was very cold the people of the house , however , made up for me a roaring fire of turf , and I felt very comfortable . 
About ten o'clock I went to bed , intending next morning to go and see Plynlimmon , which I had left behind me on entering Cardiganshire . 
As I passed over the bridge of the Mynach River I looked down over the eastern balustrade . 
The Bridge of the Evil One , which is just below it , was quite invisible . 
I could see , however , the pot or crochan distinctly enough , and a horrible sight it presented . 
The waters were whirling round in a manner to describe which any word but frenzied would be utterly powerless . 
Half an hour's walking brought me to the little village through which I had passed the day before . 
Going up to a house I knocked at the door , and a middle aged man opening it , I asked him the way to the Bridge of the Minister . 
We got presently into discourse . 
He at first talked broken English , but soon began to speak his native language . 
I asked him if the chapel belonged to the Methodists . 
It is not a chapel , said he , it is a church . 
Do many come to it ? said I. Not many , sir , for the Methodists are very powerful here . 
Not more than forty or fifty come . 
It is so , sir , said the man , 'though few , alas ! think so . 
I found him a highly intelligent person . 
Passing through a field or two we came to the side of a very deep ravine , down which there was a zigzag path leading to the bridge . 
The path was very steep , and , owing to the rain , exceedingly slippery . 
Fearing to trust my legs , I determined to slide down , and put my resolution in practice , arriving at a little shelf close by the bridge without any accident . 
The man , accustomed to the path , went down in the usual manner . 
The man passed over the bridge and I followed him on the other side we stopped and turned round . 
Good rhyme , sir , that . 
I wish you would put it into Saesneg . 
Very good rhyme that , sir ! though not so good as the pennill Cymraeg . 
Ha , I do see that you know the two languages and are one poet . 
And now , sir , I must leave you , and go to the hills to my sheep , who I am afraid will be suffering in this dreadful weather . 
However , before I go , I should wish to see you safe over the bridge . 
I shook him by the hand , and retracing my steps over the bridge , began clambering up the bank on my knees . 
You will spoil your trousers , sir ! cried the man from the other side . 
Soon flinging the paper aside , I stuck my feet on the stove , one on each side of the turf fire , and listened to the noises without . 
After a time I fell into a fit of musing . 
CHAPTER LXXXVI Birth and Early Years of Ab Gwilym Morfudd Relic of Druidism The Men of Glamorgan Legend of Ab Gwilym Ab Gwilym as a Writer Wonderful Variety Objects of Nature Gruffydd Gryg . 
DAFYDD AB GWILYM was born about the year , at a place called Bro Gynnin in the county of Cardigan . 
Though born in wedlock he was not conceived legitimately . 
After a little time , however , a general reconciliation took place . 
The parents of Ab Gwilym , though highly connected , do not appear to have possessed much property . 
This person received him within his house , made him his steward and tutor to his daughter . 
With this young lady Ab Gwilym speedily fell in love , and the damsel returned his passion . 
Ifor , however , not approving of the connection , sent his daughter to Anglesey , and eventually caused her to take the veil in a nunnery of that island . 
Dafydd pursued her , but not being able to obtain an interview , he returned to his patron , who gave him a kind reception . 
Under Ifor's roof he cultivated poetry with great assiduity and wonderful success . 
Shortly after this event he was made head bard of Glamorgan by universal acclamation . 
After a stay of some time with Ifor , he returned to his native county and lived at Bro Gynnin . 
Here he fell in love with a young lady of birth called Dyddgu , who did not favour his addresses . 
The lady after some demur consented to become his wife . 
Her parents refusing to sanction the union , their hands were joined beneath the greenwood tree by one Madawg Benfras , a bard , and a great friend of Ab Gwilym . 
The ecclesiastical law , however , did not recognise these poetical marriages , and the parents of Morfudd by appealing to the law soon severed the union . 
Having a hunting lodge in a forest on the banks of the lovely Taf , he allotted it to the fugitives as a residence . 
Ecclesiastical law , however , as strong in Wild Wales as in other parts of Europe , soon followed them into Glamorgan , and , very properly , separated them . 
The lady was restored to her husband , and Ab Gwilym fined to a very high amount . 
Then pay his fine ! said the ecclesiastical law , or rather the ecclesiastical lawyer . 
So we will ! said the men of Glamorgan , and so they did . 
Every man put his hand into his pocket the amount was soon raised , the fine paid , and the bard set free . 
Some time after his release he meditated a second elopement with Morfudd , and even induced her to consent to go off with him . 
He did not attain to any advanced age , but died when about sixty , some twenty years before the rising of Glendower . 
Some time before his death his mind fortunately took a decidedly religious turn . 
He is said to have been eminently handsome in his youth , tall , slender , with yellow hair falling in ringlets down his shoulders . 
He is likewise said to have been a great libertine . 
The following story is told of him In a certain neighbourhood he had a great many mistresses , some married and others not . 
Some time before the appointed hour he went , and climbing up the oak , hid himself amidst the dense foliage of its boughs . 
When the hour arrived he observed all the nymphs tripping to the place of appointment all came , to the number of twenty four not one stayed away . 
For some time they remained beneath the oak staring at each other . 
At length an explanation ensued , and it appeared that they had all come to meet Ab Gwilym . 
'Oh , the treacherous monster ! cried they with one accord 'only let him show himself and we will tear him to pieces . 
From harsh and taunting words they soon came to actions hair was torn off , faces were scratched , blood flowed from cheek and nose . 
Whilst the tumult was at its fiercest Ab Gwilym slipped away . 
The writer merely repeats this story , and he repeats it as concisely as possible , in order to have an opportunity of saying that he does not believe one particle of it . 
But to consider him merely in the light of an amatory poet would be wrong . 
He has written poems of wonderful power on almost every conceivable subject . 
Ab Gwilym has been styled the Welsh Ovid , and with great justice , but not merely because like the Roman he wrote admirably on love . 
Yet , diversified as the genius of the Roman was , there is no species of poetry in which he shone in which the Welshman may not be said to display equal merit . 
Ab Gwilym , then , has been fairly styled the Welsh Ovid . 
His poems to Dyddgu and the daughter of Ifor Hael are productions very different from those addressed to Morfudd . 
His first piece to Morfudd is full of levity quite inconsistent with true love . 
There are many poets who attempt to describe natural objects without being intimately acquainted with them , but Ab Gwilym was not one of these . 
His ode to the Fox , one of the most admirable of his pieces , was composed on one of these occasions . 
To Heaven's high peace let him depart , And with him go the minstrel art . 
THE morning of the fifth of November looked rather threatening . 
On looking into a pocket almanac I found it was Sunday . 
This very much disconcerted me , and I thought at first of giving up my expedition . 
The mountain of Plynlimmon to which I was bound is the third in Wales for altitude , being only inferior to Snowdon and Cadair Idris . 
Its proper name is Pum , or Pump , Lumon , signifying the five points , because towards the upper part it is divided into five hills or points . 
Plynlimmon is a celebrated hill on many accounts . 
It has been the scene of many remarkable events . 
I started about ten o'clock on my expedition , after making , of course , a very hearty breakfast . 
Scarcely had I crossed the Devil's Bridge when a shower of hail and rain came on . 
As , however , it came down nearly perpendicularly , I put up my umbrella and laughed . 
The shower pelted away till I had nearly reached Spytty Cynwyl , when it suddenly left off and the day became tolerably fine . 
On arriving at the Spytty , I was sorry to find that there would be no service till three in the afternoon . 
As waiting till that time was out of the question , I pushed forward on my expedition . 
From a lad whom I presently met I learned that the place where I crossed the water was called Troed rhiw goch , or the Foot of the Red Slope . 
About twenty minutes' walk from hence brought me to Castell Dyffryn , an inn about six miles distant from the Devil's Bridge , and situated near a spur of the Plynlimmon range . 
Here I engaged a man to show me the sources of the rivers and the other wonders of the mountain . 
He was a kind of shepherd to the people of the house , who , like many others in South Wales , followed farming and inn keeping at the same time . 
CHAPTER LXXXVIII The Guide The Great Plynlimmon A Dangerous Path Source of the Rheidol Source of the Severn Pennillion Old Times and New The Corpse Candle Supper . 
LEAVING the inn , my guide and myself began to ascend a steep hill just behind it . 
When we were about halfway up I asked my companion , who spoke very fair English , why the place was called the Castle . 
Because , sir , said he , there was a castle here in the old time . 
Whereabouts was it ? said I. Yonder , said the man , standing still and pointing to the right . 
Don't you see yonder brown spot in the valley ? There the castle stood . 
But are there no remains of it ? said I. I can see nothing but a brown spot . 
And who lived there ? said I. I don't know , sir , said the man but I suppose they were grand people , or they would not have lived in a castle . 
After ascending the hill and passing over its top , we went down its western side and soon came to a black , frightful bog between two hills . 
That , sir , said my guide , is the grand Plynlimmon . 
It does not look much of a hill , said I. We are on very high ground , sir , or it would look much higher . 
I question , upon the whole , whether there is a higher hill in the world . 
God bless Pumlummon Mawr ! said he , looking with reverence towards the hill . 
I am sure I have a right to say so , for many is the good crown I have got by showing gentlefolks like yourself to the top of him . 
Pumlummon , said I , means five summits . 
You have pointed out only three now , where are the other two ? Those two hills which we have just passed make up the five . 
However , I will tell your worship that there is a sixth summit . 
Very good , said I , and perfectly satisfactory . 
Now let us ascend the Big Pumlummon . 
In about a quarter of an hour we reached the summit of the hill , where stood a large carn or heap of stones . 
I got upon the top and looked around me . 
A mountainous wilderness extended on every side , a waste of russet coloured hills , with here and there a black , craggy summit . 
No signs of life or cultivation were to be discovered , and the eye might search in vain for a grove or even a single tree . 
The scene would have been cheerless in the extreme had not a bright sun lighted up the landscape . 
This does not seem to be a country of much society , said I to my guide . 
It is not , sir . 
The nearest house is the inn we came from , which is now three miles behind us . 
Straight before you there is not one for at least ten , and on either side it is an anialwch to a vast distance . 
Plunlummon is not a sociable country , sir nothing to be found in it , but here and there a few sheep or a shepherd . 
Now , said I , descending from the carn , we will proceed to the sources of the rivers . 
The ffynnon of the Rheidol is not far off , said the guide it is just below the hill . 
I looked down , and saw far below what appeared to be part of a small sheet of water . 
And that is the source of the Rheidol ? said I. Yes , sir , said my guide that is the ffynnon of the Rheidol . 
Well , said I is there no getting to it ? Oh yes ! but the path , sir , as you see , is rather steep and dangerous . 
Never mind , said I. Let us try it . 
Then follow me , sir but please to take care , for this path is more fit for sheep or shepherds than gentlefolk . 
And a truly bad path I found it so bad indeed that before I had descended twenty yards I almost repented having ventured . 
I had a capital guide , however , who went before and told me where to plant my steps . 
The source of the Rheidol is a small beautiful lake , about a quarter of a mile in length . 
It is overhung on the east and north by frightful crags , from which it is fed by a number of small rills . 
The water is of the deepest blue , and of very considerable depth . 
The banks , except to the north and east , slope gently down , and are clad with soft and beautiful moss . 
To the west the prospect is bounded , at a slight distance , by high , swelling ground . 
If few rivers have a more wild and wondrous channel than the Rheidol , fewer still have a more beautiful and romantic source . 
That brook , said the guide , is the young Severn . 
Passing round this crag we came to a fountain surrounded with rushes , out of which the brook , now exceedingly small , came murmuring . 
However , drink not of it , master for the ffynnon of the Hafren is higher up the nant . 
Follow me , and I will presently show you the real ffynnon of the Hafren . 
I followed him up a narrow and very steep dingle . 
Presently we came to some beautiful little pools of water in the turf , which was here remarkably green . 
These are very pretty pools , an't they , master ? said my companion . 
The ffynnon of the Severn is higher up the nant . 
Don't fret , however , but follow me , and we shall be there in a minute . 
So I did as he bade me , following him without fretting higher up the nant . 
Just at the top he halted and said Now , master , I have conducted you to the source of the Severn . 
I have considered the matter deeply , and have come to the conclusion that here , and here only , is the true source . 
Therefore stoop down and drink , in full confidence that you are taking possession of the Holy Severn . 
The source of the Severn is a little pool of water some twenty inches long , six wide , and about three deep . 
It is covered at the bottom with small stones , from between which the water gushes up . 
It is on the left hand side of the nant , as you ascend , close by the very top . 
An unsightly heap of black turf earth stands right above it to the north . 
Turf heaps , both large and small , are in abundance in the vicinity . 
A quarter of an hour will take us to it , your honour , said the guide , leading the way . 
The stream after leaving its source runs down the hill towards the east , and then takes a turn to the south . 
The Mountains of the Severn and the Wye are in close proximity to each other . 
That of the Rheidol stands somewhat apart front both , as if , proud of its own beauty , it disdained the other two for their homeliness . 
All three are contained within the compass of a mile . 
Nice pennillion , sir , I daresay , said my guide , provided a person could understand them . 
Nor above asking for one , your honour there's a prydydd in this neighbourhood who will never lose a shilling for want of asking for it . 
Now , sir , have the kindness to tell me the name of the man who made those pennillion . 
Lewis Glyn Cothi , said I at least , it was he who made the pennillion from which those verses are translated . 
And what was the name of the gentleman whom he came to visit ? His name , said I , was Dafydd ab Thomas Vychan . 
At any rate , he lived somewhere upon Plynlimmon . 
I wish there was some rich gentleman at present living on Plynlimmon , said my guide one of that sort is much wanted . 
We now bent our steps homeward , bearing slightly to the north , going over hills and dales covered with gorse and ling . 
My guide walked with a calm and deliberate gait , yet I had considerable difficulty in keeping up with him . 
After a little time we saw a rivulet running from the west . 
This ffrwd , said my guide , is called Frennig . 
It here divides shire Trefaldwyn from Cardiganshire , one in North and the other in South Wales . 
Shortly afterwards we came to a hillock of rather a singular shape . 
This place , sir , said he , is called Eisteddfa . 
Why is it called so ? said I. Eisteddfa means the place where people sit down . 
And did they ? said I. They did , sir and when they had sat down they told each other their histories . 
Do you believe in fairies ? said I. I do , sir but they are very seldom seen , and when they are they do no harm to anybody . 
I only wish there were as few corpse candles as there are Tylwith Teg , and that they did as little harm . 
They foreshow people's deaths , don't they ? said I. They do , sir but that's not all the harm they do . 
They are very dangerous for anybody to meet with . 
If they come bump up against you when you are walking carelessly it's generally all over with you in this world . 
It was a rainy , windy night , and the wind and rain were blowing in his face , so that he could not see it , or get out of its way . 
And yet the candle was not abroad on purpose to kill the man . 
Ah , master , I wish that corpse candles were as few and as little dangerous as the Tylwith Teg or fairies . 
We returned to the inn , where I settled with the honest fellow , adding a trifle to what I had agreed to give him . 
Then sitting down , I called for a large measure of ale , and invited him to partake of it . 
He accepted my offer with many thanks and bows , and as we sat and drank our ale we had a great deal of discourse about the places we had visited . 
The sun was going down as I left the inn . 
I recrossed the streamlet by means of the pole and rail . 
The water was running with much less violence than in the morning , and was considerably lower . 
The evening was calm and beautifully cool , with a slight tendency to frost . 
I walked along with a bounding and elastic step , and never remember to have felt more happy and cheerful . 
I reached the hospice at about six o'clock , a bright moon shining upon me , and found a capital supper awaiting me , which I enjoyed exceedingly . 
THE morning of the sixth was bright and glorious . 
As I looked from the window of the upper sitting room of the hospice the scene which presented itself was wild and beautiful to a degree . 
Should I live a hundred years I shall never forget the wild fantastic beauty of that morning scene . 
I left the friendly hospice at about nine o'clock to pursue my southern journey . 
By this time the morning had lost much of its beauty , and the dull grey sky characteristic of November began to prevail . 
The way lay up a hill to the south east on my left was a glen down which the river of the Monk rolled with noise and foam . 
The country soon became naked and dreary , and continued so for some miles . 
At length , coming to the top of a hill , I saw a park before me , through which the road led after passing under a stately gateway . 
I had reached the confines of the domain of Hafod . 
The house , however , and the library were both destroyed in a dreadful fire which broke out . 
The loss of the house was a matter of triviality compared with that of the library . 
The house was soon rebuilt , and probably , phoenix like , looked all the better for having been burnt , but the library could never be restored . 
A good looking young woman , the only person whom I saw , on my telling my errand , forthwith took a key and conducted me to the church . 
The church was a neat edifice with rather a modern look . 
Beneath is the following inscription To the Memory of MARY The only child of THOMAS and JANE JOHNES Who died in After a few days' sickness This monument is dedicated By her parents . 
An inscription worthy , by its simplicity and pathos , to stand below such a monument . 
The scenery was exceedingly beautiful . 
Below me was a bright green valley , at the bottom of which the Ystwyth ran brawling , now hid amongst groves , now showing a long stretch of water . 
Beyond the river to the east was a noble mountain , richly wooded . 
Near the lower part of the valley the road tended to the south , up and down through woods and bowers , the scenery still ever increasing in beauty . 
A truly fairy place it looked , beautiful but fantastic , in the building of which three styles of architecture seemed to have been employed . 
At the southern end was a Gothic tower at the northern an Indian pagoda the middle part had much the appearance of a Grecian villa . 
The walls were of resplendent whiteness , and the windows , which were numerous , shone with beautiful gilding . 
Such was modern Hafod , a strange contrast , no doubt , to the hunting lodge of old . 
Presently I came to a gate , the boundary in the direction in which I was going of the Hafod domain . 
Here , when about to leave Hafod , I shall devote a few lines to a remarkable man whose name should be ever associated with the place . 
Edward Lhuyd was born in the vicinity of Hafod about the period of the Restoration . 
From his early youth he devoted himself with indefatigable zeal to the acquisition of learning . 
He was particularly successful in Ireland and Wales . 
The first was to be devoted to the Celtic dialects the second to British Antiquities , and the third to the natural history of the British Isles . 
He only lived to complete the first part . 
It contains various Celtic grammars and vocabularies , to each of which there is a preface written by Lhuyd in the particular dialect to which the vocabulary or grammar is devoted . 
Of all these prefaces the one to the Irish is the most curious and remarkable . 
The first part of the Archaeologia was published at Oxford in , two years before the death of the author . 
Of his correspondence , which was very extensive , several letters have been published , all of them relating to philology , antiquities , and natural history . 
CHAPTER XC An Adventure Spytty Ystwyth Wormwood . 
SHORTLY after leaving the grounds of Hafod I came to a bridge over the Ystwyth . 
I crossed it , and was advancing along the road which led apparently to the south east , when I came to a company of people who seemed to be loitering about . 
It consisted entirely of young men and women , the former with crimson favours , the latter in the garb of old Wales , blue tunics and sharp crowned hats . 
, she replied , after looking at me attentively . 
I then asked her the name of the bridge , whereupon she gave a broad grin , and after some , little time replied Pont y Groes . 
Go back , David , to shire Fon ! That Cumraeg won't pass here . 
Finding they disliked my Welsh I had recourse to my own language . 
Really , said I in English , such conduct is unaccountable . 
No , David if you must speak at all , stick to Cumraeg . 
I began to descend a hill forming the eastern side of an immense valley , at the bottom of which rolled the river . 
Beyond the valley to the west was an enormous hill , on the top of which was a most singular looking crag , seemingly leaning in the direction of the south . 
On the right hand side of the road were immense works of some kind in full play and activity , for engines were clanging and puffs of smoke were ascending from tall chimneys . 
Near the top of the hill I came to a village consisting of a few cottages and a shabby looking church . 
A rivulet descending from some crags to the east crosses the road , which leads through the place , and tumbling down the valley , joins the Ystwyth at the bottom . 
Seeing a woman standing at the door , I inquired the name of the village . 
Spytty Ystwyth , she replied , but she , no more than the boy down below , could tell me the name of the strange looking hill across the valley . 
This second Spytty or monastic hospital , which I had come to , looked in every respect an inferior place to the first . 
Whatever its former state might have been , nothing but dirt and wretchedness were now visible . 
Having reached the top of the hill I entered upon a wild moory region . 
I told you to bring me a pint of ale , said I to her in her own language . 
It is not very bad ale , said I , after I had tasted it . 
It ought to be very good , said the old woman , for I brewed it myself . 
The goodness of ale , said I , does not so much depend on who brews it as on what it is brewed of . 
Now there is something in this ale which ought not to be . 
What is it made of ? Malt and hop . 
in it ? I do not know what chwerwlys is , said the old woman . 
It is what the Saxons call wormwood , said I. Oh , wermod . 
No , there is no wermod in my beer , at least not much . 
Oh , then there is some I thought there was . 
Why do you put such stuff into your ale ? We are glad to put it in sometimes when hops are dear , as they are this year . 
Moreover , wermod is not bad stuff , and some folks like the taste better than that of hops . 
However , the ale is drinkable . 
What am I to give you for the pint ? You are to give me a groat . 
That is a great deal , said I , for a groat I ought to have a pint of ale made of the best malt and hops . 
I give you the best I can afford . 
One must live by what one sells . 
I do not find that easy work . 
Is this house your own ? Oh no ! I pay rent for it , and not a cheap one . 
Have you a husband ? I had , but he is dead . 
Have you any children ? I had three , but they are dead too , and buried with my husband at the monastery . 
Where is the monastery ? A good way farther on , at the strath beyond Rhyd Fendigaid . 
What is the name of the little river by the house ? Avon Marchnad . 
Why is it called Avon Marchnad ? Truly , gentleman , I cannot tell you . 
CHAPTER XCI Pont y Rhyd Fendigaid Strata Florida The Yew Tree Idolatry The Teivi The Llostlydan . 
From the hill I looked down on a wide valley of a russet colour , along which a river ran towards the south . 
The whole scene was cheerless . 
Sullen hills were all around . 
Descending the hill I entered a large village divided into two by the river , which here runs from east to west , but presently makes a turn . 
There was much mire in the street immense swine lay in the mire , who turned up their snouts at me as I passed . 
I asked the name of the river The Teivi , sir the Teivi . 
The name of the bridge ? Pony y Rhyd Fendigaid the Bridge of the Blessed Ford , sir . 
I crossed over into the churchyard , ascended a green mound , and looked about me . 
Rugged mountains formed the background of the valley to the east , down from which came murmuring the fleet but shallow Teivi . 
After standing for some time on the mound I descended , and went up to the church . 
I found the door fastened , but obtained through a window a tolerable view of the interior , which presented an appearance of the greatest simplicity . 
I then strolled about the churchyard looking at the tombstones , which were humble enough and for the most part modern . 
I would give something , said I , to know whereabouts in this neighbourhood Ab Gwilym lies . 
That , however , is a secret that no one can reveal to me . 
At length I came to a yew tree which stood just by the northern wall , which is at a slight distance from the Teivi . 
It was one of two trees , both of the same species , which stood in the churchyard , and appeared to be the oldest of the two . 
Nevertheless , relying on the possibility of its being the sacred tree , I behaved just as I should have done had I been quite certain of the fact . 
He had rather a youthful look , was of the middle size , and dark complexioned . 
He was respectably dressed , except that upon his head he wore a common hairy cap . 
Good evening , said I to him in Welsh . 
Good evening , gentleman , said he in the same language . 
Have you much English ? said I. Very little I can only speak a few words . 
Are you the farmer ? Yes ! I farm the greater part of the Strath . 
Well , I must say the land is good indeed I do not think there is any so good in Shire Aberteifi . 
I suppose you are surprised to see me here I came to see the old Monachlog . 
Yes , gentleman I saw you looking about it . 
Am I welcome to see it ? Croesaw ! gwr boneddig , croesaw ! many , many welcomes to you , gentleman ! Do many people come to see the monastery ? FARMER . 
Yes ! many gentlefolks come to see it in the summer time . 
It is a poor place now . 
Very poor , I wonder any gentlefolks come to look at it . 
It was a wonderful place once you merely see the ruins of it now . 
It was pulled down at the Reformation . 
Why was it pulled down then ? MYSELF . 
Because it was a house of idolatry to which people used to resort by hundreds to worship images . 
Had you lived at that time you would have seen people down on their knees before stocks and stones , worshipping them , kissing them , and repeating pennillion to them . 
What fools ! How thankful I am that I live in wiser days . 
If such things were going on in the old Monachlog it was high time to pull it down . 
What kind of a rent do you pay for your land ? FARMER . 
Oh , rather a stiffish one . 
Two pounds an acre ? FARMER . 
Two pound an acre ! I wish I paid no more ! MYSELF . 
Well , I think that would be quite enough . 
In the time of the old monastery you might have had the land at two shillings an acre . 
Might I ? Then those couldn't have been such bad times , after all . 
I beg your pardon ! They were horrible times times in which there were monks and friars and graven images , which people kissed and worshipped and sang pennillion to . 
Well , I scarcely know what to say to that . 
What do you call that high hill on the other side of the river ? FARMER . 
I call that hill Bunk Pen Bannedd . 
Is the source of the Teivi far from here ? FARMER . 
The head of the Teivi is about two miles from here high up in the hills . 
What kind of place is the head of the Teivi ? FARMER . 
The head of the Teivi is a small lake about fifty yards long and twenty across . 
Where does the Teivi run to ? FARMER . 
The Teivi runs to the sea , which it enters at a place which the Cumri call Aber Teivi and the Saxons Cardigan . 
Don't you call Cardiganshire Shire Aber Teivi ? FARMER . 
Are there many gleisiaid in the Teivi ? FARMER . 
Plenty , and salmons too that is , farther down . 
The best place for salmon and gleisiaid is a place , a great way down the stream , called Dinas Emlyn . 
Do you know an animal called Llostlydan ? FARMER . 
No , I do not know that beast . 
There used to be many in the Teivi . 
What kind of beast is the Llostlydan ? MYSELF . 
A beast with a broad tail , on which account the old Cumri did call him Llostlydan . 
Clever beast he was made himself house of wood in middle of the river , with two doors , so that when hunter came upon him he might have good chance of escape . 
Hunter often after him , because he had skin good to make hat . 
Ha , I wish I could catch that beast now in Teivi . 
Would make myself hat of his skin . 
Oh , you could not make yourself a hat even if you had the skin . 
Why not ? Shot coney in Bunk Pen Banedd made myself cap of his skin . 
So why not make hat of skin of broadtail , should I catch him in Teivi ? MYSELF . 
How far is it to Tregaron ? FARMER . 
'Tis ten miles from here , and eight from the Rhyd Fendigaid . 
Must I go back to Rhyd Fendigaid to get to Tregaron ? FARMER . 
Then I must be going , for the night is coming down . 
IT was dusk by the time I had regained the high road by the village of the Rhyd Fendigaid . 
As I was yet eight miles from Tregaron , the place where I intended to pass the night , I put on my best pace . 
In a little time I reached a bridge over a stream which seemed to carry a considerable tribute to the Teivi . 
What is the name of this bridge ? said I to a man riding in a cart , whom I met almost immediately after I had crossed the bridge . 
Maes y Lynn The Field of the Lake , said the woman . 
And what is the name of the lake ? said I. I do not know , said she but the place where it stands is called Maes Llyn , as I said before . 
Is the lake deep ? said I. Very deep , said she . 
How deep ? said I. Over the tops of the houses , she replied . 
Any fish in the lake ? Oh yes ! plenty . 
What fish ? Oh , there are llysowen , and the fish we call ysgetten . 
Pooh , said I , that was merely some person's cow or horse , turned out at night to fill its belly at other folks' expense . 
It doesn't matter , said I I am never happier than when keeping my own company . 
Bidding the woman good night , I went on . 
The moon now shone tolerably bright , so that I could see my way , and I sped on at a great rate . 
I had proceeded nearly half a mile , when I thought I heard steps in advance , and presently saw a figure at some little distance before me . 
The individual , probably hearing the noise of my approach , soon turned round and stood still . 
As I drew near I distinguished a stout burly figure of a man , seemingly about sixty , with a short pipe in his mouth . 
Ah , is it you ? said the figure , in English , taking the pipe out of his mouth good evening , I am glad to see you . 
Then shaking some burning embers out of his pipe , he put it into his pocket , and trudged on beside me . 
Why are you glad to see I me ? said I , slackening my pace I am a stranger to you at any rate , you are to me . 
Always glad to see English gentleman , said the figure always glad to see him . 
How do you know that I am an English gentleman ? said I. Oh , I know Englishman at first sight no one like him in the whole world . 
Have you seen many English gentleman ? said I. Oh yes , have seen plenty when I have been up in London . 
Have you been much in London ? Oh yes when I was a drover was up in London every month . 
And were you much in the society of English gentlemen when you were there ? Oh yes a great deal . 
Whereabouts in London did you chiefly meet them ? Whereabouts ? Oh , in Smithfield . 
Dear me ! said I I thought that was rather a place for butchers than gentlemen . 
Have you given up the business of drover long ? said I. Oh yes given him up a long time , ever since domm'd railroad came into fashion . 
Can do everything in small way , if necessary build little bridge , if asked Jack of all Trades live very comfortably . 
And where do you live ? Oh , not very far from Tregaron . 
And what kind of place is Tregaron ? Oh , very good place not quite so big as London but very good place . 
What is it famed for ? said I , Oh , famed for very good ham best ham at Tregaron in all Shire Cardigan . 
Famed for anything else ? Oh yes ! famed for great man , clever thief , Twm Shone Catti , who was born there . 
Dear me ! said I when did he live ? Oh , long time ago , more than two hundred year . 
And what became of him ? said I was he hung ? Hung , no ! only stupid thief hung . 
Twm Shone clever thief died rich man , justice of the peace and mayor of Brecon . 
Very singular , said I , that they should make a thief mayor of Brecon . 
Ah , ah , said I that's the way of the world . 
He became rich , so they made him a magistrate had he remained poor they would have hung him in spite of all his fun and good nature . 
Well , can't you tell me some of the things he did ? Oh yes , can tell you plenty . 
One day in time of fair Tom Shone Catti goes into ironmonger's shop in Llandovery . 
'Master , says he , 'I want to buy a good large iron porridge pot please to show me some . 
So the man brings three or four big iron porridge pots , the very best he has . 
Tom takes up one and turns it round . 
'This look very good porridge pot , said he 'I think it will suit me . 
Then he turns it round and round again , and at last lifts it above his head and peeks into it . 
'Ha , ha , says he 'this won't do I see one hole here . 
What mean you by wanting to sell article like this to stranger ? Says the man , 'There be no hole in it . 
'But there is , says Tom , holding it up and peeking into it again 'I see the hole quite plain . 
Take it and look into it yourself . 
So the man takes the pot , and having held it up and peeked in , 'as I hope to be saved , says he , 'I can see no hole . 
Says Tom , 'Good man , if you put your head in , you will find that there is a hole . 
The farmer at Newton , just one mile beyond the bridge at Brecon , had one very fine bull , but with a very short tail . 
Says Tom to himself 'By God's nails and blood , I will steal the farmer's bull , and then sell it to him for other bull in open market place . 
Says Tom , 'What do you mean ? This bull is not your bull , but mine . 
Says the farmer , 'I could swear that this is my bull but for the tail . 
The tail of my bull was short , but the tail of this is long . 
I would fain know whether the tail of this be real tail or not . 
'You would ? says Tom 'well , so you shall . 
Thereupon he whips out big knife and cuts off the bull's tail , some little way above where the false tail was joined on . 
I beg pardon for thinking that he was . 
'Yes , yes , cried the mob 'as he forced you to cut off the tail , do you now force him to buy the bull without the tail . 
Says the farmer , 'What do you ask for the bull ? Says Tom 'I ask for him ten pound . 
Says the farmer , 'I will give you eight . 
'No , says Tom 'you shall give me ten , or I will have you up before the justice . 
'That is right , cried the mob . 
'If he won't pay you ten pound , have him up before the justice . 
Thereupon the farmer , becoming frightened , pulled out the ten pounds and gave it for his own bull to Tom Shone Catti , who wished him joy of his bargain . 
A clever fellow , said I though it was rather cruel in him to cut off the poor bull's tail . 
Now , perhaps , you will tell me how he came to marry the rich lady ? Oh yes I will tell you . 
Tom kills the highwayman and conducts the lady home to her house and her husband , for she was a married lady . 
Out of gratitude to Tom for the service he has done , the gentleman and lady invite him to stay with them . 
Tom begs and entreats , but quite in vain , till at last she tells him to go away and not trouble her any more . 
Tom goes away , but does not yet lose hope . 
I have seen the cave myself , which is still called Ystafell Twm Shone Catty . 
Very queer cave it is , in strange situation steep rock just above it , Towey River roaring below . 
Forthwith Tom , seizing her wrist with his left hand , says 'I have got you now , and will never let you go till you swear to become my wife . 
And what kind of justice of the peace did Tom make ? Ow , the very best justice of the peace that there ever was . 
He made the old saying good you must get one thief to catch one thief . 
He said that as he himself could not have a finger in the pie , he would take care nobody else should . 
One day as Tom sat on de bench with other big wigs , Tom the biggest wig of the lot , a man was brought up charged with stealing one bullock . 
Tom no sooner cast eye on the man than he remembered him quite well . 
So Tom stands with his oxen on the road , scratching his head and not knowing what to do . 
Now if you will drive them for me there and wait till I come , which will not be long , I will give you a groat . 
Says the man 'I will drive them there for nothing , for as my way lies past that same public house I can easily afford to do so . 
Well ! the evidence was heard against the man , and it soon appeared quite clear that the man did really steal the bullock . 
Says the other big wigs to Tom 'The fact has been proved quite clear . 
So my wordy and esteemed friends and coadshutors I should esteem it one great favour if you would adshudge that the man should be let off this one time . 
Then the other big wigs did look very big and solemn , and did shake their heads and did whisper to one another that they were afraid the matter could not be done . 
Well to make the matter short , the man was let off with only a slight reprimand , and left the court . 
'I think your honour was one of the big wigs , who were just now so kind as to let me off . 
'Well , said Tom 'I was that man . 
I had stolen that pair of oxen , and I dared not drive them through Brecon . 
You drove them for me and for doing me that good turn I have this day saved your life . 
I was thief then but am now big wig . 
I am Twm Shone Catti . 
Now lookee ! I have saved your life this one time , but I can never save it again . 
Should you ever be brought up before me again , though but for stealing one kid , I will hang you as high as ever Haman was hung . 
One word more here are five pieces of gold . 
Take them employ them well , and reform as I have done , and perhaps in time you may become one big wig , like myself . 
Well the man took the money , and laid it out to the best advantage , and became at last so highly respectable a character that they made him a constable . 
And now , my gentleman , we are close upon Tregaron . 
Beyond the bridge was a small market place , on the right hand side of which stood an ancient looking church . 
The place upon the whole put me very much in mind of an Andalusian village overhung by its sierra . 
Where is the inn ? said I to my companion . 
Yonder it be said he pointing to a large house at the farther end of the market place . 
Very good inn that Talbot Arms where they are always glad to see English gentlemans . 
Then touching his hat , and politely waving his hand , he turned on one side , and I saw him no more . 
CHAPTER XCIII Tregaron Church The Minister Good Morning Tom Shone's Disguises Tom and the Lady Klim and Catti . 
I EXPERIENCED very good entertainment at the Tregaron Inn , had an excellent supper and a very comfortable bed . 
I arose at about eight in the morning . 
The day was dull and misty . 
After breakfast , according to my usual fashion , I took a stroll to see about . 
The town , which is very small , stands in a valley , near some wild hills called the Berwyn , like the range to the south of Llangollen . 
I did not fail to pay a visit to Tregaron church . 
It is an antique building with a stone tower . 
There was not much to be seen . 
Amongst the monuments was a stone tablet to John Herbert , who died . 
He was baptised by the name of Thomas Jones , but was generally called Tom Shone Catti , that is Tom Jones , son of Catti or Catherine . 
His mother , who was a person of some little education , brought him up , and taught him to read and write . 
His disguises were innumerable , and all impenetrable sometimes he would appear as an ancient crone sometimes as a begging cripple sometimes as a broken soldier . 
Riding up to the door of Tom's mother , he saw an aged and miserable looking object , with a beggar's staff and wallet , sitting on a stone bench beside the door . 
Does Tom Shone Catti live here ? said the farmer . 
Oh yes , he lives here , replied the beggar . 
Is he at home ? Oh yes , he is at home . 
Will you hold my horse whilst I go in and speak to him ? Oh yes , I will hold your horse . 
Thereupon the man dismounted , took a brace of pistols out of his holsters , gave the cripple his horse's bridle and likewise his whip , and entered the house boldly . 
Though Tom was known by everybody to be a thief , he appears to have lived on very good terms with the generality of his neighbours , both rich and poor . 
At length , being an extremely good looking young fellow , he induced a wealthy lady to promise to marry him . 
This lady is represented by some as a widow , and by others as a virgin heiress . 
After some time , however , she refused to perform her promise and barred her doors against him . 
Such is the history or rather the outline of the history of Twm Shone Catti . 
CHAPTER XCIV Llan Ddewi Brefi Pelagian Heresy Hu Gadarn God of Agriculture The Silver Cup Rude Tablet . 
IT was about eleven o'clock in the morning when I started from Tregaron the sky was still cloudy and heavy . 
I took the road to Lampeter , distant about eight miles , intending , however , to go much farther ere I stopped for the night . 
The road lay nearly south west . 
I next passed through Nant Derven , and in about three quarters of an hour after leaving Tregaron reached a place of old renown called Llan Ddewi Brefi . 
A brook flowing from the hills murmurs through it and at length finds its way into the Teivi . 
An ancient church stands on a little rising ground just below the hills multitudes of rooks inhabit its steeple and fill throughout the day the air with their cawing . 
It is not without reason that Llan Ddewi Brefi has been called a place of old renown . 
In the fifth century , one of the most remarkable ecclesiastical convocations which the world has ever seen was held in this secluded spot . 
At length it was resolved to send for Dewi , a celebrated teacher of theology at Mynyw in Pembrokeshire , who from motives of humility had not appeared in the assembly . 
If this secluded gorge or valley is connected with a remarkable historical event it is also associated with one of the wildest tales of mythology . 
Here according to old tradition died one of the humped oxen of the team of Hu Gadarn . 
Horns of enormous size , said to have belonged to this humped ox or bison , were for many ages preserved in the church . 
After his death he was worshipped as the God of agriculture and war by the Cumry and the Gauls . 
The Germans paid him divine honours under the name of Heus , from which name the province of Hesse in which there was a mighty temple devoted to him , derived its appellation . 
The Scandinavians worshipped him under the name of Odin and Gautr , the latter word a modification of Cadarn or mighty . 
Till a late period the word Hu amongst the Cumry was frequently used to express God Gwir Hu , God knows , being a common saying . 
So much for Hu Gadarn or Hu the Mighty , whose name puts one strangely in mind of the Al Kader Hu or the Almighty He of the Arabians . 
I went to see the church . 
The inside was very rude and plain a rough table covered with a faded cloth served for an altar on the right hand side was a venerable looking chest . 
What is there in that box ? said I to the old sexton who attended me . 
The treasure of the church , sir , he replied in a feeble quaking voice . 
It was tolerably large and of very chaste workmanship . 
Graven upon it were the following words Poculum Eclesie De LXXN Dewy Brefy . 
Do you always keep this cup in that chest ? said I. Yes sir ! we have kept it there since the cup was given to us by de godly Queen Elizabeth . 
I said nothing , but I thought to myself I wonder how long a cup like this would have been safe in a crazy chest in a country church in England . 
I kissed the sacred relic of old times with reverence , and returned it to the old sexton . 
What became of the horns of Hu Gadarn's bull ? said I , after he had locked the cup again in its dilapidated coffer . 
They did dwindle away , sir , till they came to nothing . 
in this parish who died February the sixth , . 
After copying the inscription I presented the old man with a trifle and went my way . 
CHAPTER XCV Lampeter The Monk Austin The Three Publicans The Tombstone Sudden Change Trampers A Catholic The Bridge of Twrch . 
THE country between Llan Ddewi and Lampeter presented nothing remarkable , and I met on the road nothing worthy of being recorded . 
On arriving at Lampeter I took a slight refreshment at the inn , and then went to see the college which stands a little way to the north of the town . 
It was founded by Bishop Burgess in the year , for the education of youths intended for the ministry of the Church of England . 
It is a neat quadrate edifice with a courtyard in which stands a large stone basin . 
From the courtyard you enter a spacious dining hall , over the door of which hangs a well executed portrait of the good bishop . 
From the hall you ascend by a handsome staircase to the library , a large and lightsome room , well stored with books in various languages . 
The grand curiosity is a manuscript Codex containing a Latin synopsis of Scripture which once belonged to the monks of Bangor Is Coed . 
It bears marks of blood with which it was sprinkled when the monks were massacred by the heathen Saxons , at the instigation of Austin the Pope's missionary in Britain . 
The number of students seldom exceeds forty . 
It might be about half past two in the afternoon when I left Lampeter . 
The road lay , seemingly , due east . 
Seeing three rather shabby looking fellows standing chatting with their hands in their pockets , I stopped and inquired in English the name of the place . 
No great reason to complain have we , neighbours ? No ! no great reason to complain , said the other two . 
By Shire Car , said I , I suppose you mean Shire Cardigan ? Shire Cardigan ! said the man no indeed by Shire Car is meant Carmarthenshire . 
Your honour has left beggarly Cardigan some way behind you . 
Come , your honour , come and have a pint this is my house , said he , pointing to one of the buildings . 
Do you mean each ? said I. Why , yes ! your honour , for a pint amongst three would be rather a short allowance . 
Then it would come to this , said I , I should receive three pints from you three , and you three would receive nine from me . 
Just so , your honour , I see your honour is a ready reckoner . 
I know how much three times three make , said I. Well , thank you , kindly , but I must decline your offer I am bound on a journey . 
Where are you bound to , master ? To Llandovery , but if I can find an inn a few miles farther on I shall stop there for the night . 
Then you will put up at the 'Pump Saint , master well , you can have your three pints here and your three pipes too , and yet get easily there by seven . 
Come in , master , come in ! If you take my advice you will think of your pint and your pipe and let all the rest go to the devil . 
Thank you , said I , but I can't accept your invitation , I must be off and in spite of yet more pressing solicitations I went on . 
I stopped and looked at one of the latter . 
What conflicting opinions there are in this world , said I , after I had copied the quatrain and translated it . 
Now , which is most right , the tombstone or the publican ? Why , I should say the tombstone decidedly . 
The publican is too sweeping when he tells you to think of your pint and pipe and nothing else . 
A pint and pipe are good things . 
So it won't do to go with the publican the whole hog . 
But with respect to the tombstone , it is quite safe and right to go with it its whole length . 
It tells you to think of death and judgment and assuredly we ought to of them . 
It does not , however , tell you to think of nothing but death and judgment and to eschew every innocent pleasure within your reach . 
I went on desolate hills rose in the east , the way I was going , but on the south were beautiful hillocks adorned with trees and hedge rows . 
I was soon amongst the desolate hills , which then looked more desolate than they did at a distance . 
There were no songs of birds , no voices of rills the only sound I heard was the lowing of a wretched bullock from a far off slope . 
The sight filled my veins with fresh life , and I descended this side of the hill as merrily as I had come up the other side despondingly . 
About half way down the hill I came to a small village . 
Seeing a public house I went up to it , and inquired in English of some people within the name of the village . 
Dolwen , said a dark faced young fellow of about four and twenty . 
And what is the name of the valley ? said I. Dolwen , was the answer , the valley is named after the village . 
You mean that the village is named after the valley , said I , for Dolwen means fair valley . 
It may be so , said the young fellow , we don't know much here . 
Then after a moment's pause he said Are you going much farther ? Only as far as the 'Pump Saint . 
Have you any business there ? said he . 
No , I replied , I am travelling the country , and shall only put up there for the night You had better stay here , said the young fellow . 
You will be better accommodated here than at the 'Pump Saint . 
Very likely , said I but I have resolved to go there , and when I once make a resolution I never alter it . 
Then bidding him good evening I departed . 
A little farther down I met a woman coming up the ascent . 
She was tolerably respectably dressed , seemed about five and thirty , and was rather good looking . 
She walked somewhat slowly , which was probably more owing to a large bundle which she bore in her hand than to her path being up hill . 
Good evening , said I , stopping . 
Good evening , your honour , said she , stopping and brightly panting . 
Do you come from far ? said I. Not very far , your honour , but quite far enough for a poor feeble woman . 
Are you Welsh ? said I. Och no ! your honour I am Mary Bane from Dunmanway in the kingdom of Ireland . 
And what are you doing here ? said I. Och sure ! I am travelling the country with soft goods . 
Are you going far ? said I. Merely to the village a little farther up , your honour . 
I am going farther , said I , I am thinking of passing the night at the 'Pump Saint . 
Oh , I saw that as I came past , said I I don't think there is much accommodation there . 
Oh , your honour is clane mistaken there is always an illigant fire and an illigant bed too . 
And do the visitors sleep together then ? said I. Oh yes ! unless they wish to be unsociable . 
Those who are not disposed to be sociable sleeps in the chimney corners . 
Ah , said I , I see it is a very agreeable inn however , I shall go on to the 'Pump Saint . 
I am sorry for it , your honour , for your honour's sake your honour won't be half so illigantly served at the 'Pump Saint' as there above . 
Of what religion are you ? said I. Oh , I'm a Catholic , just like your honour , for if I am not clane mistaken your honour is an Irishman . 
Who is your spiritual director ? said I. Why , then , it is just Father Toban , your honour , whom of course your honour knows . 
Oh yes ! said I when you next see him present my respects to him . 
What name shall I mention , your honour ? Shorsha Borroo , said I. Oh , then I was right in taking your honour for an Irishman . 
None but a raal Paddy bears that name . 
and a credit to your name is your honour , for it is a neat man without a bend you are . 
God bless your honour and good night ! and may you find dacent quarters in the 'Pump Saint . 
Leaving Mary Bane I proceeded on my way . 
The evening was rather fine but twilight was coming rapidly on . 
I reached the bottom of the valley and soon overtook a young man dressed something like a groom . 
He spoke Welsh and a little English . 
His Welsh I had great difficulty in understanding , as it was widely different from that which I had been accustomed to . 
He asked me where I was going to I replied to the Pump Saint , and then enquired if he was in service . 
I am , said he . 
With whom do you live ? said I. With Mr Johnes of Dol Cothi , he answered . 
Struck by the word Cothi , I asked if Dol Cothi was ever called Glyn Cothi . 
Oh yes , said he , frequently . 
It is , said he . 
Presently we came to a bridge over a small river . 
Is this river the Cothi ? said I. No , said he , this is the Twrch the bridge is called Pont y Twrch . 
The bridge of Twrch or the hog , said I to myself there is a bridge of the same name in the Scottish Highlands , not far from the pass of the Trossachs . 
It had now become nearly dark . 
After proceeding some way farther I asked the groom if we were far from the inn of the Pump Saint . 
Close by , said he , and presently pointing to a large building on the right hand side he said This is the inn of the 'Pump Saint , sir . 
Nos Da'chi ! CHAPTER XCVI Pump Saint Pleasant Residence The Watery Coom Philological Fact Evening Service Meditation . 
I ENTERED the inn of the Pump Saint . 
It was a comfortable old fashioned place , with a very large kitchen and a rather small parlour . 
The people were kind and attentive , and soon set before me in the parlour a homely but savoury supper , and a foaming tankard of ale . 
Awaking in the very depth of the night I thought I heard the murmuring of a river I listened and soon found that I had not been deceived . 
I wonder whether that river is the Cothi , said I , the stream of the immortal Lewis . 
I will suppose that it is and rendered quite happy by the idea , I soon fell asleep again . 
I arose about eight and went out to look about me . 
The village consists of little more than half a dozen houses . 
The name Pump Saint signifies Five Saints . 
Why the place is called so I know not . 
Perhaps the name originally belonged to some chapel which stood either where the village now stands or in the neighbourhood . 
The inn is a good specimen of an ancient Welsh hostelry . 
Its gable is to the road and its front to a little space on one side of the way . 
At a little distance up the road is a blacksmith's shop . 
After breakfast I departed for Llandovery . 
Presently I came to a lodge on the left hand beside an ornamental gate at the bottom of an avenue leading seemingly to a gentleman's seat . 
I went in and advanced along the avenue , which consisted of very noble oaks on the right was a vale in which a beautiful brook was running north and south . 
Beyond the vale to the east were fine wooded hills . 
I thought I had never seen a more pleasing locality , though I saw it to great disadvantage , the day being dull , and the season the latter fall . 
Presently , on the avenue making a slight turn , I saw the house , a plain but comfortable gentleman's seat with wings . 
It looked to the south down the dale . 
With what satisfaction I could live in that house , said I to myself , if backed by a couple of thousands a year . 
With what gravity could I sign a warrant in its library , and with what dreamy comfort translate an ode of Lewis Glyn Cothi , my tankard of rich ale beside me . 
I wonder whether the proprietor is fond of the old bard and keeps good ale . 
Were I an Irishman instead of a Norfolk man I would go in and ask him . 
Returning to the road I proceeded on my journey . 
After walking for some miles I came to where the road divided into two . 
By a sign post I saw that both led to Llandovery , one by Porth y Rhyd and the other by Llanwrda . 
The distance by the first was six miles and a half , by the latter eight and a half . 
Feeling quite the reverse of tired I chose the longest road , namely the one by Llanwrda , along which I sped at a great rate . 
The same man told me that the war was going on very badly , that our soldiers were suffering much , and that the snow was two feet deep at Sebastopol . 
After journeying about four miles amid this kind of scenery I came to a noble suspension bridge , and crossing it found myself in about a quarter of an hour at Llandovery . 
It was about half past two when I arrived . 
I put up at the Castle Inn and forthwith ordered dinner , which was served up between four and five . 
During dinner I was waited upon by a strange old fellow who spoke Welsh and English with equal fluency . 
What countryman are you ? said I. An Englishman , he replied . 
From what part of England ? From Herefordshire . 
Have you been long here ? Oh yes ! upwards of twenty years . 
How came you to learn Welsh ? Oh , I took to it and soon picked it up . 
Can you read it ? said I. No , I can't . 
Can you read English ? Yes , I can that is , a little . 
Why didn't you try to learn to read Welsh ? Well , I did but I could make no hand of it . 
It's one thing to speak Welsh and another to read it . 
One of the most profound truths ever uttered connected with language , said I to myself . 
I asked him if there were many Church of England people in Llandovery . 
A good many , he replied . 
Do you belong to the Church ? said I. Yes , I do . 
If this were Sunday I would go to church , said I. Oh , if you wish to go to church you can go to night . 
This is Wednesday , and there will be service at half past six . 
If you like I will come for you . 
Pray do , said I I should like above all things to go . 
Dinner over I sat before the fire occasionally dozing , occasionally sipping a glass of whiskey and water . 
A little after six the old fellow made his appearance with a kind of Spanish hat on his head . 
We set out the night was very dark we went down a long street seemingly in the direction of the west . 
How many churches are there in Llandovery ? said I to my companion . 
Only one , but you are not going to Llandovery Church , but to that of Llanfair , in which our clergyman does duty once or twice a week . 
Is it far ? said I. Oh no just out of the town , only a few steps farther . 
We seemed to pass over a bridge and began to ascend a rising ground . 
Several people were going in the same direction . 
There , said the old man , follow with these , and a little farther up you will come to the church , which stands on the right hand . 
I went with the rest and soon came to the church . 
I went in and was at once conducted by an old man , who I believe was the sexton , to a large pew close against the southern wall . 
The inside of the church was dimly lighted it was long and narrow , and the walls were painted with a yellow colour . 
The pulpit stood against the northern wall near the altar , and almost opposite to the pew in which I sat . 
After a little time the service commenced it was in Welsh . 
When the litanies were concluded the clergyman , who appeared to be a middle aged man , and who had rather a fine voice , began to preach . 
His sermon was from the th Psalm Am hynny hoffais dy gorchymynion yn mwy nag aur Therefore have I loved thy commandments more than gold . 
When it was over a great many got up and went away . 
Observing , however , that not a few remained , I determined upon remaining too . 
He spoke with much fervency , enlarging upon the high importance of the holy communion , and exhorting people to come to it in a fit state of mind . 
The clergyman listened attentively , sometimes saying Ah ! and the congregation also listened attentively , a voice here and there frequently saying Ah . 
Then there was a hymn and we went away . 
I found my way back to my inn and went to bed , after musing awhile on the concluding scene of which I had been witness in the church . 
CHAPTER XCVII Llandovery Griffith ap Nicholas Powerful Enemies Last Words Llandovery Church Rees Pritchard The Wiser Creature God's better than All The Old Vicarage . 
THE morning of the ninth was very beautiful , with a slight tendency to frost . 
I breakfasted , and having no intention of proceeding on my journey that day , I went to take a leisurely view of Llandovery and the neighbourhood . 
Llandovery is a small but beautiful town , situated amidst fertile meadows . 
It is a water girdled spot , whence its name Llandovery or Llanymdyfri , which signifies the church surrounded by water . 
The most striking object which Llandovery can show is its castle , from which the inn , which stands near to it , has its name . 
This castle , majestic though in ruins , stands on a green mound , the eastern side of which is washed by the Bran . 
Little with respect to its history is known . 
Griffith ap Nicholas flourished towards the concluding part of the reign of Henry the Sixth . 
He was a powerful chieftain of South Wales and possessed immense estates in the counties of Carmarthen and Cardigan . 
Though holding offices of trust and emolument under the Saxon , he in the depths of his soul detested the race , and would have rejoiced to see it utterly extirpated from Britain . 
Though at the head of a numerous and warlike clan , which was strongly attached to him on various accounts , Griffith did not exactly occupy a bed of roses . 
He had amongst his neighbours four powerful enemies who envied him his large possessions , with whom he had continual disputes about property and privilege . 
His last words were Welcome , Death ! since honour and victory make for us . 
A lion unto the lofty thou , A lamb unto the weak and low . 
Much thou resemblest Nudd of yore , Surpassing all who went before Like him thou'rt fam'd for bravery , For noble birth and high degree . 
Against my chief , with envy fired , Three dukes and judges two conspired , But thou a dauntless front didst show , And to retreat they were not slow . 
The church of Llandovery is a large edifice standing at the southern extremity of the town in the vicinity of the Towey . 
The outside exhibits many appearances of antiquity , but the interior has been sadly modernized . 
What is the clergyman's name ? said I I heard him preach last night . 
I know you did , sir , said the clerk , bowing , for I saw you at the service at Llanfair his name is Hughes . 
Any relation of the clergyman at Tregaron ? said I. Own brother , sir . 
But there's his house in the market place , the old vicarage , which you should go and see . 
Leaving the church I went to see the old vicarage , but before saying anything respecting it , a few words about the old vicar . 
Rees Pritchard was born at Llandovery , about the year , of respectable parents . 
He received the rudiments of a classical education at the school of the place , and at the age of eighteen was sent to Oxford , being intended for the clerical profession . 
At Oxford he did not distinguish himself in an advantageous manner , being more remarkable for dissipation and riot than application in the pursuit of learning . 
Returning to Wales , he was admitted into the ministry , and after the lapse of a few years was appointed vicar of Llandovery . 
His conduct for a considerable time was not only unbecoming a clergyman , but a human being in any sphere . 
The people of the tavern which Rees Pritchard frequented had a large he goat , which went in and out and mingled with the guests . 
Before night , however , Pritchard became himself intoxicated , and was trundled to the vicarage in the usual manner . 
The goat was now perfectly recovered , and was standing nigh . 
No sooner was the tankard brought than Rees taking hold of it held it to the goat's mouth . 
The creature , however , turned away its head in disgust , and hurried out of the room . 
This circumstance produced an instantaneous effect upon Rees Pritchard . 
Smashing his pipe he left his tankard untasted on the table , went home , and became an altered man . 
Different as an angel of light is from the fiend of the pit was Rees Pritchard from that moment from what he had been in former days . 
The good vicar did more . 
Better than father , than mother , than nurse , Better than riches , oft proving a curse , Better than Martha or Mary even Better by far is the God of heaven . 
Then let not thy heart , though distressed , complain ! A hold on thy portion firm maintain . 
Thou didst choose the best portion , again I say Resign it not till thy dying day . 
It is in a very dilapidated condition , and is inhabited at present by various poor families . 
The principal room , which is said to have been the old vicar's library , and the place where he composed his undying Candle , is in many respects a remarkable apartment . 
It is of large dimensions . 
The roof is curiously inlaid with stucco or mortar , and is traversed from east to west by an immense black beam . 
The fire place , which is at the south , is very large and seemingly of high antiquity . 
The windows , which are two in number and look westward into the street , have a quaint and singular appearance . 
Of all the houses in Llandovery the old vicarage is by far the most worthy of attention , irrespective of the wonderful monument of God's providence and grace who once inhabited it . 
The reverence in which the memory of Rees Pritchard is still held in Llandovery the following anecdote will show . 
THE Vicar of Llandovery had then been dead nearly two hundred years . 
Truly the man in whom piety and genius are blended is immortal upon earth . 
CHAPTER XCVIII Departure from Llandovery A Bitter Methodist North and South The Caravan Captain Bosvile Deputy Ranger A Scrimmage The Heavenly Gwynfa Dangerous Position . 
ON the tenth I departed from Llandovery , which I have no hesitation in saying is about the pleasantest little town in which I have halted in the course of my wanderings . 
I started at about ten o'clock the morning was lowering , and there were occasional showers of rain and hail . 
Crossing a bridge over the Bran just before it enters the greater stream , I proceeded along a road running nearly south and having a range of fine hills on the east . 
Presently violent gusts of wind came on , which tore the sear leaves by thousands from the trees , of which there were plenty by the roadsides . 
After a little time , however , this elemental hurly burly passed away , a rainbow made its appearance , and the day became comparatively fine . 
It was a mere glimpse , for scarcely had I descried them when mist settled down and totally obscured them from my view . 
In about an hour I reached Llangadog , a large village . 
The name signifies the church of Gadog . 
Scarcely had I entered Llangadog when a great shower of rain came down . 
Seeing an ancient looking hostelry I at once made for it . 
In a large and comfortable kitchen I found a middle aged woman seated by a huge deal table near a blazing fire , with a couple of large books open before her . 
Sitting down on a chair I told her in English to bring me a pint of ale . 
She did so , and again sat down to her books , which on inquiry I found to be a Welsh Bible and Concordance . 
Leaving Llangadog I pushed forward . 
The day was now tolerably fine . 
In two or three hours I came to a glen , the sides of which were beautifully wooded . 
On my left was a river , which came roaring down from a range of lofty mountains right before me to the south east . 
The river , as I was told by a lad , was the Sawdde or Southey , the lofty range the Black Mountains . 
It was running from the south , a wild , fierce flood , amidst rocks and stones , the waves all roaring and foaming . 
After some time I reached another bridge near the foot of a very lofty ascent . 
Seeing a decent looking man engaged in sawing a piece of wood by the roadside , I asked him in Welsh whether the house with the wheel was a flour mill . 
Nage , said he , it is a pandy , fulling mill . 
Can you tell me the name of a river , said I , which I have left about a mile behind me . 
Is it the Sawdde ? Nage , said he , it is the Lleidach . 
Then looking at me with great curiosity , he asked if I came from the north country . 
Yes , said I , I certainly come from there . 
I am glad to hear it , said he , for I have long wished to see a man from the north country . 
Did you never see one before ? said I. Never in my life , he replied men from the north country seldom show themselves in these parts . 
Well , said I I am not ashamed to say that I come from the north . 
Laugh at a man from the south ! No , no they can't do that . 
Why not ? said I why shouldn't the north laugh at the south as well as the south at the north ? Why shouldn't it ? why , you talk like a fool . 
Let's hear what you eat bacon and eggs ? Oh yes , I eat bacon and eggs when I can get nothing better . 
And what do you drink ? Can you drink ale ? Oh yes , said I I am very fond of ale when it's good . 
Well , then , you had better not loiter Gutter Vawr is a long way off over the mountain . 
It will be dark , I am afraid , long before you get to Gutter Vawr . 
Good evening , David ! I am glad to have seen you , for I have long wished to see a man from the north country . 
Good evening ! you will find plenty of good ale at Gutter Vawr . 
I went on my way . 
The road led in a south eastern direction gradually upward to very lofty regions . 
After walking about half an hour I saw a kind of wooden house on wheels drawn by two horses coming down the hill towards me . 
Beside him was a swarthy woman in a wild flaunting dress . 
Behind the box out of the fore part of the caravan peered two or three black children's heads . 
A pretty little foal about four months old came frisking and gambolling now before now beside the horses , whilst a colt of some sixteen months followed more leisurely behind . 
Well , I'll be jiggered if I wasn't thinking so and if I wasn't penning so to my juwa as we were welling down the chong . 
Ah , you may well call it a long time since we met why , it can't be less than thirty year . 
Something about that you were a boy then of about fifteen . 
No more there an't my old father always used to say it was of no use hitting it for it always broke his knuckles . 
Well , it was kind of you to jin mande after so many years . 
You don't ? Well , she was a fine young woman and a vartuous . 
I remember her knocking down and giving a black eye to my old mother , who was wonderfully deep in Romany , for making a bit of a gillie about you and she . 
Have you seen Jasper Petulengro lately ? said I. Yes , I have seen him , but it was at a very considerable distance . 
Jasper Petulengro doesn't come near the likes of we now . 
Lord ! you can't think what grand folks he and his wife have become of late years , and all along of a trumpery lil which somebody has written about them . 
Only think , said I. And now tell me , what brought you into Wales ? What brought me into Wales ? I'll tell you my own fool's head . 
I was doing nicely in the Kaulo Gav and the neighbourhood , when I must needs pack up and come into these parts with bag and baggage , wife and childer . 
The country is overrun with Hindity mescrey , woild Irish , with whom the Romany foky stand no chance . 
Had I not contrived to pass off a poggado bav engro a broken winded horse at a fair , I at this moment should be without a tringoruschee piece in my pocket . 
I am now making the best of my way back to Brummagem , and if ever I come again to this Hindity country may Calcraft nash me . 
We had stopped on a nice green , near a village over the hills in Glamorganshire , when up comes a Hindity family , and bids us take ourselves off . 
Now it so happened that there was but one man and a woman and some childer , so I laughed , and told them to drive us off . 
Well , brother , without many words , there was a regular scrimmage . 
The Hindity mush came at me , the Hindity mushi at y my juwa , and the Hindity chaves at my chai . 
It didn't last long , brother . 
My juwa had almost scratched an eye out of the Hindity mushi , and my chai had sent the Hindity childer scampering over the green . 
Just as they got to the edge of the green , however , they turned round and gave a yell which made all our blood run cold . 
I knew what it meant , and said , 'This is no place for us . 
Well , said I , farewell . 
I can't stay any longer . 
As it is , I shall be late at Gutter Vawr . 
Farewell , brother ! said Captain Bosvile and , giving a cry , he cracked , his whip and set his horses in motion . 
Won't you give us sixpence to drink ? cried Mrs Bosvile , with a rather shrill voice . 
Hold your tongue , you she dog , said Captain Bosvile . 
Is that the way in which you take leave of an old friend ? Hold your tongue , and let the Ingrine gentleman jaw on his way . 
I proceeded on my way as fast as I could , for the day was now closing in . 
My progress , however , was not very great for the road was steep , and was continually becoming more so . 
What is the name of this place ? said I to a man who was breaking stones on the road . 
Capel Gwynfa , said he . 
Rather surprised at the name , which signifies in English the Chapel of the place of bliss , I asked the man why it was called so . 
I don't know , said the man . 
Was there ever a chapel here ? said I. I don't know , sir there is none now . 
What a poetical word that Gwynfa , place of bliss , is . 
Owen Pugh uses it in his translation of 'Paradise Lost' to express Paradise , for he has rendered the words Paradise Lost by Col Gwynfa the loss of the place of bliss . 
I wonder whether the old scholar picked up the word here . 
Strange fellow that Owen Pugh . 
Wish I had seen him . 
No hope of seeing him now , except in the heavenly Gwynfa . 
Wonder whether there is such a place . 
Tom Payne thinks there's not . 
Strange fellow that Tom Payne . 
Wish I had never read him . 
Presently I came to a little cottage with a toll bar . 
Seeing a woman standing at the door , I inquired of her the name of the gate . 
Has it any Welsh name ? None that I know of , sir . 
This place was at a considerable altitude , and commanded an extensive view to the south , west , and north . 
Heights upon heights rose behind it to the east . 
From here the road ran to the south for a little way nearly level , then turned abruptly to the east , and was more steep than ever . 
After the turn , I had a huge chalk cliff towering over me on the right , and a chalk precipice on my left . 
Night was now coming on fast , and , rather to my uneasiness , masses of mist began to pour down the sides of the mountain . 
I hurried on , the road making frequent turnings . 
Presently the mist swept down upon me , and was so thick that I could only see a few yards before me . 
I was now obliged to slacken my pace , and to advance with some degree of caution . 
I moved on in this way for some time , when suddenly I heard a noise , as if a number of carts were coming rapidly down the hill . 
I stopped , and stood with my back close against the high bank . 
The noise drew nearer , and in a minute I saw distinctly through the mist , horses , carts , and forms of men passing . 
In one or two cases the wheels appeared to be within a few inches of my feet . 
I let the train go by , and then cried out in English , Am I right for Gutter Vawr ? Hey ? said a voice , after a momentary interval . 
Am I right for Gutter Vawr ? I shouted yet louder . 
Yes sure ! said a voice , probably the same . 
Then instantly a much rougher voice cried , Who the Devil are you ? I made no answer , but went on , whilst the train continued its way rumbling down the mountain . 
At length I gained the top , where the road turned and led down a steep descent towards the south west . 
It was now quite night , and the mist was of the thickest kind . 
I could just see that there was a frightful precipice on my left , so I kept to the right , hugging the side of the hill . 
As I descended I heard every now and then loud noises in the vale , probably proceeding from stone quarries . 
I was drenched to the skin , nay , through the skin , by the mist , which I verily believe was more penetrating than that described by Ab Gwilym . 
When I had proceeded about a mile I saw blazes down below , resembling those of furnaces , and soon after came to the foot of the hill . 
It was here pouring with rain , but I did not put up my umbrella , as it was impossible for me to be more drenched than I was . 
Crossing a bridge over a kind of torrent , I found myself amongst some houses . 
CHAPTER XCIX Inn at Gutter Vawr The Hurly burly Bara y Caws Change of Manner Welsh Mistrust Wonders of Russia The Emperor The Grand Ghost Story . 
THE old woman who confronted me in the passage of the inn turned out to be the landlady . 
It was cold and comfortless , for there was no fire in the grate . 
She told me , however , that one should be lighted , and going out , presently returned with a couple of buxom wenches , who I soon found were her daughters . 
The good lady had little or no English the girls , however , had plenty , and of a good kind too . 
They soon lighted a fire , and then the mother inquired if I wished for any supper . 
Certainly , said I , for I have not eaten anything since I left Llandovery . 
What can I have ? We have veal and bacon , said she . 
That will do , said I fry me some veal and bacon , and I shan't complain . 
Is there a good fire there ? said I. Oh yes , said the girl , we have always a good fire in the kitchen . 
Well then , said I , I shall go there till supper is ready , for I am wet to the skin , and this fire casts very little heat . 
You will find them a rough set in the kitchen , said the girl . 
I don't care if I do said I when people are rough I am civil , and I have always found that civility beats roughness in the long run . 
Then going out I crossed the passage and entered the kitchen . 
It was nearly filled with rough unkempt fellows , smoking , drinking , whistling , singing , shouting or jabbering , some in a standing , some in a sitting , posture . 
Offence , intrusion ! cried twenty voices . 
Have you any news to tell of the war , sir ? said a large tough fellow , who was smoking a pipe . 
The last news that I heard of the war , said I , was that the snow was two feet deep at Sebastopol . 
I heard three , said the man however , if there be but two it must be bad work for the poor soldiers . 
I suppose you think that we shall beat the Russians in the end . 
No , I don't , said I the Russians are a young nation and we are an old they are coming on and we are going off every dog has its day . 
That's true , said the man , but I am sorry that you think we shall not beat the Russians , for the Russians are a bad set . 
Can you speak Welsh ? said a darkish man with black , bristly hair and a small inquisitive eye . 
Oh , I know two words in Welsh , said I bara y caws . 
What a long nose he has ! Mind that he an't nosing us , said his neighbour . 
No , he doesn't understand Welsh , said the other no Sais understands Welsh , and this is a Sais . 
Now with regard to that piece of job work which you and I undertook . 
And forthwith he and the other entered into a disquisition about the job work . 
The company soon got into its old train , drinking and smoking and making a most terrific hullabaloo . 
Nobody took any farther notice of me . 
I sat snug in the chimney corner , trying to dry my wet things , and as the heat was very great , partially succeeded . 
Supper over I called for a glass of whiskey and water , over which I trifled for about half an hour and then betook myself again to the kitchen . 
I advanced towards the fire . 
The old man who had occupied the seat in the chimney corner and had resigned it to me , had again taken possession of it . 
I did not decline it but sat down , and the old gentleman took a chair near . 
Universal silence now prevailed sullen looks were cast at me , and I saw clearly enough that I was not welcome . 
Frankness was now my only resource . 
That's a clever attempt to get off , sir , said the old man , but it won't exactly do . 
Tell us whether you know more Welsh than bara y caws , or to speak more plainly , whether you understand a good deal of what we say . 
That may be the custom in England , said the old man , but it is not so in Wales . 
What have you got to conceal ? said I I suppose you are honest men . 
I hope we are , sir , said the old man but I must tell you , once for all , that we don't like strangers to listen to our discourse . 
Come , said I , I will not listen to your discourse , but you shall listen to mine . 
I have a wonderful deal to say if I once begin I have been everywhere . 
Have you ever been in Russia ? shouted a voice , that of the large rough fellow who asked me the question about the Russian war . 
In the winter , which is rather long , there is a good deal of ice and snow , it is true , but in the summer the weather is warmer than here . 
Oh yes , said I , there are plenty of towns and cities . 
The two principal ones are Moscow and Saint Petersburg , both of which are capitals . 
Moscow is a fine old city , far up the country , and was the original seat of empire . 
In it there is a wonderful building called the Kremlin , situated on a hill . 
It is partly palace , partly temple , and partly fortress . 
In one of its halls are I don't know how many crowns , taken from various kings whom the Russians have conquered . 
Many of the streets are miles in length , and straight as an arrow . 
If I had my choice of all the cities of the world to live in , I would choose Saint Petersburg . 
Well , what kind of a man is he ? we should like to know . 
A man of colossal stature , with a fine , noble , but rather stern and severe aspect . 
There stood the great , proud man looking at his warriors as they manoeuvred before him . 
Two thirds of them were cavalry , and each horseman was mounted on a beautiful blood charger of Cossack or English breed , and arrayed in a superb uniform . 
The blaze , glitter and glory were too much for my eyes , and I was frequently obliged to turn them away . 
Bravo ! said twenty voices the gentleman speaks like an areithiwr . 
I have been in Portugal , the people of which supply the whole world with wine , and drink only water themselves . 
I have been in Spain , a very fine country , the people of which are never so happy as when paying other folks' reckonings . 
Do tell us the ghost story of Spain . 
Thereupon I told the company Lope de Vega's ghost story , which is decidedly the best ghost story in the world . 
Shortly afterwards I desired to be shown to my sleeping apartment . 
CHAPTER C Morning A Cheerless Scene The Carter Ode to Glamorgan Startling Halloo One sided Liberty Clerical Profession De Courcy Love of the Drop Independent Spirit Another People . 
I SLEPT soundly through the night . 
At about eight o'clock on the following morning I got up and looked out of the window of my room , which fronted the north . 
A strange scene presented itself a roaring brook was foaming along towards the west , just under the window . 
The morning was moist and dripping , and nothing could look more cheerless and uncomfortable than the entire scene . 
The breakfast was delicious , consisting of excellent tea , buttered toast , and Glamorgan sausages , which I really think are not a whit inferior to those of Epping . 
After breakfast I went into the kitchen , which was now only occupied by two or three people . 
Seeing a large brush on a dresser , I took it up , and was about to brush my nether habiliments , which were terribly bespattered with half dried mire . 
I did not refuse his services , but let him go on , and to reward him as I thought , spoke kindly to him , asking him various questions . 
Are you a carter ? said I. No answer . 
One of Twm O'r Nant's people ? No answer . 
Love to listen to his pleasant stories of foreign lands , ghosts and tylwith teg but before him , deem it wise to be mum , quite mum . 
Know what he comes about . 
Nice man , civil man , I don't deny and clebber man too , for he knows Welsh , and has been everywhere but fox old fox lives at Plas y Cadno . 
Having been informed that there was a considerable iron foundry close by , I thought it would be worth my while to go and see it . 
I entered the premises , and was standing and looking round , when a man with the appearance of a respectable mechanic came up and offered to show me over the place . 
I gladly accepted his offer , and he showed me all about the iron foundry . 
I saw a large steam engine at full play , terrible furnaces , and immense heaps of burning , crackling cinders , and a fiery stream of molten metal rolling along . 
After seeing what there was to be seen , I offered a piece of silver to my kind conductor , which he at once refused . 
On my asking him , however , to go to the inn and have a friendly glass , he smiled , and said he had no objection . 
So we went to the inn , and had two friendly glasses of whiskey and water together , and also some discourse . 
I asked him if there were any English employed on the premises . 
None , said he , nor Irish either we are all Welsh . 
Though he was a Welshman , his name was a very common English one . 
After paying the reckoning , which only amounted to three and sixpence , I departed for Swansea , distant about thirteen miles . 
Gutter Vawr consists of one street , extending for some little way along the Swansea road , the foundry , and a number of huts and houses scattered here and there . 
The population is composed almost entirely of miners , the workers at the foundry , and their families . 
For the first two or three miles the country through which I passed did not at all prepossess me in favour of Glamorganshire it consisted of low , sullen , peaty hills . 
Subsequently , however , it improved rapidly , becoming bold , wild , and pleasantly wooded . 
The aspect of the day improved , also , with the appearance of the country . 
When I first started the morning was wretched and drizzly , but in less than an hour it cleared up wonderfully , and the sun began to flash out . 
Came to Llanguick , a hamlet situated near a tremendous gorge , the sides of which were covered with wood . 
Continuing my course , I passed by an enormous edifice which stood on my right hand . 
It had huge chimneys , which were casting forth smoke , and from within I heard the noise of a steam engine and the roar of furnaces . 
What place is this ? said , I to a boy . 
Gwaith haiarn , sir ym perthyn i Mr Pearson . 
Mr Pearson's iron works , sir . 
I proceeded , and in about half an hour saw a man walking before me in the same direction in which I was . 
He was going very briskly , but I soon came up to him . 
He was a small , well made fellow , with reddish hair and ruddy , determined countenance , somewhat tanned . 
He wore a straw hat , checkered shirt , open at the neck , canvas trousers and blue jacket . 
Good day , my friend , said I you seem to be able to use a stick . 
And sure I ought to be , your honour , seeing as how my father taught me , who was the best fighting man with a stick that the Shanavests ever had . 
Many is the head of a Caravaut that he has broken with some such an Alpeen wattle as the one I am carrying with me here . 
A good thing , said I , that there are no Old Waist coats and Cravats at present , at least bloody factions bearing those names . 
Your honour thinks so ! Faith ! I am clane of a contrary opinion . 
I wish the ould Shanavests and Caravauts were fighting still , and I among them . 
Faith ! there was some life in Ireland in their days . 
And plenty of death too , said I. How fortunate it is that the Irish have the English among them to prevent their cutting each other's throats . 
The English prevent the Irish from cutting each other's throats ! Well , if they do , it is only that they may have the pleasure of cutting them themselves . 
The bloody tyrants ! too long has their foot been upon the neck of poor old Ireland . 
They are not ? Then good luck to you ! We are both of the same opinion . 
Ah , I thought your honour was a rale Catholic . 
Now , tell me from what kingdom of Ireland does your honour hail ? Why , I was partly educated in Munster . 
In Munster ! Hoorah ! Here's the hand of a countryman to your honour . 
Ah , it was asy to be seen from the learning , which your honour shows , that your honour is from Munster . 
There's no spot in Ireland like Munster for learning . 
What says the old song ? 'Ulster for a soldier , Connaught for a thief , Munster for learning , And Leinster for beef . 
You don't seem to like the Connaught men , said I. Like them ! who can like them ? a parcel of beggarly thievish blackguards . 
So your honour was edicated in Munster I mane partly edicated . 
Ah , the love of the drop at college has prevented many a clever young fellow from taking holy orders . 
Well , it's a pity but it can't be helped . 
I am fond of a drop myself , and when we get to shall be happy to offer your honour a glass of whiskey . 
I hope your honour and I shall splice the mainbrace together before we part . 
I suppose , said I , by your talking of splicing the mainbrace that you are a sailor . 
I am , your honour , and hail from the Cove of Cork in the kingdom of Munster . 
I know it well , said I , it is the best sea basin in the world . 
After that I sailed for Cuba , got into the merchants' service there , and made several voyages to the Black Coast . 
At present I am in the service of the merchants of Cork . 
I wonder that you are not now in the royal service , said I , since you are so fond of fighting . 
There is hot work going on at present up the Black Sea , and brave men , especially Irishmen , are in great request . 
Yes , brave Irishmen are always in great request with England when she has a battle to fight . 
At other times they are left to lie in the mud with the chain round their necks . 
It has been so ever since the time of De Courcy , and I suppose always will be so , unless Irishmen all become of my mind , which is not likely . 
Were the Irish all of my mind , the English would find no Irish champion to fight their battles when the French or the Russians come to beard them . 
By De Courcy , said I , you mean the man whom the King of England confined in the Tower of London after taking from him his barony in the county of Cork . 
Does your honour remember that part of the story ? I think I do , said I , but I should be very glad to hear you relate it . 
Right glad , I say , was the King of England , and gave leave to De Courcy to return to Ireland . 
'And you shall have , said he , 'of the barony which I took from you all that you can ride round on the first day of your return . 
Shortly after my friend the sailor had concluded his account of De Courcy , we arrived in the vicinity of a small town or rather considerable village . 
What place is this ? said I to my companion . 
This is , your honour and here , if your honour will accept a glass of whiskey we will splice the mainbrace together . 
Thank you , said I but I am in haste to get to Swansea . 
Moreover , if I am over fond of the drop , as you say I am , the sooner I begin to practise abstinence the better . 
Nor shall Pat Flannagan be able to say the same thing of my honour . 
I have a shilling in my pocket at Pat Flannagan's service , if he chooses to splice with it the mainbrace for himself and for me . 
Thereupon he turned aside to , and I continued my way to Swansea . 
Very good , sir , said the landlady with a curtsey . 
Then showing me into a nice little sanded parlour , she brought me the glass of ale , and presently sent in a lad with a boot jack to minister to me . 
Starting again with all the spirited confidence of one who has just cast off his slough , I soon found myself in the suburbs of Swansea . 
As I passed under what appeared to be a railroad bridge I inquired in Welsh of an ancient looking man , in coaly habiliments , if it was one . 
He answered in the same language that it was , then instantly added in English You have taken your last farewell of Wales , sir it's no use speaking Welsh farther on . 
I passed some immense edifices , probably manufactories , and was soon convinced that , whether I was in Wales or not , I was no longer amongst Welsh . 
The people whom I met did not look like Welsh . 
They were taller and bulkier than the Cambrians , and were speaking a dissonant English jargon . 
The women had much the appearance of Dutch fisherwomen some of them were carrying huge loads on their heads . 
I spoke in Welsh to two or three whom I overtook . 
No Welsh , sir ! Why don't you speak Welsh ? said I. Because we never learnt it . 
Who are you then ? English some calls us Flamings . 
Ah , ah ! said I to myself I had forgot . 
Presently I entered the town , a large , bustling , dirty , gloomy place , and inquiring for the first hotel , was directed to the Mackworth Arms , in Wine Street . 
Yes , sir I'll see after him they shall be done , sir . 
Bring you your slippers instantly . 
Glad to see you again in Swansea , sir , looking so well . 
CHAPTER CI Swansea The Flemings Towards England . 
SWANSEA is called by the Welsh Abertawe , which signifies the mouth of the Tawy . 
Aber , as I have more than once had occasion to observe , signifies the place where a river enters into the sea or joins another . 
Swansea first became a place of some importance shortly after the beginning of the twelfth century . 
I found the accommodation very good at the Mackworth Arms I passed the Saturday evening very agreeably , and slept well throughout the night . 
The next morning to my great joy I found my boots , capitally repaired , awaiting me before my chamber door . 
Oh the mighty effect of a little money ! After breakfast I put them on , and as it was Sunday went out in order to go to church . 
The streets were thronged with people a new mayor had just been elected , and his worship , attended by a number of halbert and javelin men , was going to church too . 
I followed the procession , which moved with great dignity and of course very slowly . 
I stood during the whole of the service as did many others , for the congregation was so great that it was impossible to accommodate all with seats . 
The ritual was performed in a very satisfactory manner , and was followed by an excellent sermon . 
I am ashamed to say that have forgot the text , but I remember a good deal of the discourse . 
The preacher said amongst other thing that the Gospel was not preached in vain , and that he very much doubted whether a sermon was ever delivered which did not do some good . 
On the conclusion of the service I strolled about in order to see the town and what pertained to it . 
The town is of considerable size , with some remarkable edifices , spacious and convenient quays , and a commodious harbour into which the river Tawy flowing from the north empties itself . 
After having seen all that I wished , I returned to my inn and discharged all my obligations . 
I then departed , framing my course eastward towards England , having traversed Wales nearly from north to south . 
CHAPTER CII Leave Swansea The Pandemonium Neath Abbey Varied Scenery . 
IT was about two o'clock of a dull and gloomy afternoon when I started from Abertawy or Swansea , intending to stop at Neath , some eight miles distant . 
I reached Llan , a small village half way between Swansea and Neath , and without stopping continued my course , walking very fast . 
Somewhat to the south rose immense stacks of chimneys surrounded by grimy diabolical looking buildings , in the neighbourhood of which were huge heaps of cinders and black rubbish . 
From the chimneys , notwithstanding it was Sunday , smoke was proceeding in volumes , choking the atmosphere all around . 
Across this place of filth stretched a tramway leading seemingly from the abominable mansions to the ruin . 
So strange a scene I had never beheld in nature . 
After standing for a considerable time staring at the strange spectacle I proceeded . 
Presently meeting a lad , I asked him what was the name of the ruin . 
The Abbey , he replied . 
It was with some difficulty that I found my way to it . 
It stood , as I have already observed , in a meadow , and was on almost every side surrounded by majestic hills . 
The southern is by far the most perfect portion of the building there you see not only walls but roofs . 
Then but I forbear to say more respecting these remains , for fear of stating what is incorrect , my stay amongst them having been exceedingly short . 
The Abbey of Glen Neath was founded in the twelfth century by Richard Grenfield , one of the followers of Robert Fitzhamon , who subjugated Glamorgan . 
Neath Abbey was a very wealthy one , the founder having endowed it with extensive tracts of fertile land along the banks of the rivers Neath and Tawy . 
Leaving the ruins I proceeded towards Neath . 
I reached Neath at about half past four , and took up my quarters at an inn which had been recommended to me by my friend the boots at Swansea . 
There is but little Welsh spoken in it . 
It is situated on the Neath , and exports vast quantities of coal and iron , of both of which there are rich mines in the neighbourhood . 
It derives its name from the river Nedd or Neth , on which it stands . 
Nedd or Neth is the same word as Nith , the name of a river in Scotland , and is in some degree connected with Nidda , the name of one in Germany . 
Nedd in Welsh signifies a dingle , and the word in its various forms has always something to do with lowness or inferiority of position . 
Amongst its forms are Nether and Nieder . 
The term is well applied to the Glamorganshire river , which runs through dingles and under mountains . 
The Neath has its source in the mountains of Brecon , and enters the sea some little way below the town of Neath . 
On the Monday morning I resumed my journey , directing my course up the vale of Neath towards Merthyr Tydvil , distant about four and twenty miles . 
The weather was at first rainy , misty and miserable , but improved by degrees . 
I passed through a village which I was told was called Llanagos close to it were immense establishments of some kind . 
The scenery soon became exceedingly beautiful hills covered with wood to the tops were on either side of the dale . 
Probably it belonged to the proprietor of the dogs , and certainly looked a very fit mansion for a Glamorganshire squire , justice of the peace and keeper of a pack of hounds . 
I saw a bridge on my right hand with five or six low arches over the river , which was here full of shoals . 
Asked a woman the name of the bridge . 
PONT FAWR ei galw , sir . 
I was again amongst the real Welsh this woman had no English . 
I passed by several remarkable mountains , both on the south and northern side of the vale . 
Late in the afternoon I came to the eastern extremity of the vale and ascended a height . 
Shortly afterwards I reached Rhigos , a small village . 
Of their Welsh I understood but little , for it was a strange corrupt jargon . 
In about half an hour after leaving this place I came to the beginning of a vast moor . 
It was now growing rather dusk , and I could see blazes here and there occasionally I heard horrid sounds . 
Came to Irvan , an enormous mining place with a spectral looking chapel , doubtless a Methodist one . 
The street was crowded with rough , savage looking men . 
Is this the way to Merthyr Tydvil ? said I to one . 
Yes ! bawled the fellow at the utmost stretch of his voice . 
Thank you ! said I , taking off my hat and passing on . 
Forward I went , up hill and down dale . 
I passed a grove of trees and presently came to a collection of small houses at the bottom of a little hollow . 
Hearing a step near me I stopped and said in Welsh How far to Merthyr Tydvil ? Dim Cumrag , sir ! said a voice , seemingly that of a man . 
Good night ! said I , and without staying to put the question in English , I pushed on up an ascent , and was presently amongst trees . 
Heard for a long time the hooting of an owl or rather the frantic hollo . 
Appeared to pass by where the bird had its station . 
Toiled up an acclivity and when on the top stood still and looked around me . 
There was a glow on all sides in the heaven , except in the north east quarter . 
Striding on I saw a cottage on my left hand , and standing at the door the figure of a woman . 
How far to Merthyr ? said I in Welsh . 
Tair milltir three miles , sir . 
Turning round a corner at the top of a hill I saw blazes here and there , and what appeared to be a glowing mountain in the south east . 
After walking about half an hour , always going downwards , I saw a house on my left hand and heard a noise of water opposite to it . 
I went to it , drank greedily , and then hurried on . 
More and more blazes , and the glowing object looking more terrible than ever . 
Between me and the hill of the burning object lay a deep ravine . 
After a time I came to a house , against the door of which a man was leaning . 
I had blazes now all around me . 
CHAPTER CIV Iron and Coal The Martyred Princess Cyfartha Fawr Diabolical Structure . 
MERTHYR TYDVIL is situated in a broad valley through which roll the waters of the Taf . 
It was till late an inconsiderable village , but is at present the greatest mining place in Britain , and may be called with much propriety the capital of the iron and coal . 
It bears the name of Merthyr Tydvil , which signifies the Martyr Tydvil , because in the old time a Christian British princess was slain in the locality which it occupies . 
Tydvil was the daughter of Brychan , Prince of Brecon , surnamed Brycheiniawg , or the Breconian , who flourished in the fifth century and was a contemporary of Hengist . 
They proved themselves worthy of his care , all of them without one exception becoming exemplary Christians , and useful preachers . 
In his latter days he retired to a hermitage in Glamorganshire near the Taf , and passed his time in devotion , receiving occasionally visits from his children . 
Ever since that time the place has borne the name of Martyr Tydvil . 
It is one of the most beautiful of rivers , but is not navigable on account of its numerous shallows . 
The only service which it renders to commerce is feeding a canal which extends from Merthyr to Cardiff . 
It is surprising how similar many of the Welsh rivers are in name Taf , Tawey , Towey , Teivi , and Duffy differ but very little in sound . 
Taf and Teivi have both the same meaning , namely a tendency to spread out . 
The other names , though probably expressive of the properties or peculiarities of the streams to which they respectively belong , I know not how to translate . 
The morning of the fourteenth was very fine . 
After breakfast I went to see the Cyfartha Fawr iron works , generally considered to be the great wonder of the place . 
After some slight demur I obtained permission from the superintendent to inspect them . 
I was attended by an intelligent mechanic . 
What shall I say about the Cyfartha Fawr ? I had best say but very little . 
I saw streams of molten metal . 
I saw a long ductile piece of red hot iron being operated upon . 
I saw millions of sparks flying about . 
I saw an immense wheel impelled round with frightful velocity by a steam engine of two hundred and forty horse power . 
I heard all kinds of dreadful sounds . 
The general effect was stunning . 
After seeing the Cyfartha I roamed about , making general observations . 
It is only when the shades of night have settled down that the fire within manifests itself , making the hill appear an immense glowing mass . 
All the hills around the town , some of which are very high , have a scorched and blackened look . 
The town is large and populous . 
The inhabitants for the most part are Welsh , and Welsh is the language generally spoken , though all have some knowledge of English . 
The houses are in general low and mean , and built of rough grey stone . 
Merthyr , however , can show several remarkable edifices , though of a gloomy horrid Satanic character . 
There is the hall of the Iron , with its arches , from whence proceeds incessantly a thundering noise of hammers . 
Then there is an edifice at the foot of a mountain , half way up the side of which is a blasted forest and on the top an enormous crag . 
A truly wonderful edifice it is , such as Bos would have imagined had he wanted to paint the palace of Satan . 
It is of no use putting the question to myself here . 
CHAPTER CV Start for Caerfili Johanna Colgan Alms Giving The Monstrous Female The Evil Prayer The Next Day The Aifrionn Unclean Spirits Expectation Wreaking Vengeance A decent Alms . 
I LEFT Merthyr about twelve o'clock for Caerfili . 
My course lay along the valley to the south east . 
She seemed between forty and fifty , was bare footed and bare headed , with grizzled hair hanging in elf locks , and was dressed in rags and tatters . 
Presently , however , recovering myself , I said Really , I don't think it would be for the glory of God to give you alms . 
Ye don't ! Then , Biadh an taifrionn however , I'll give ye a chance yet . 
Am I to get my alms or not ? Before I give you alms I must know something about you . 
So for your own sake , honey , give me my alms , and let me go on my way . 
Oh , I am not to be frightened by evil prayers ! I shall give you nothing till I hear all about you . 
If I tell ye all about me will ye give me an alms ? Well , I have no objection to give you something if you tell me your story . 
Will ye give me a dacent alms ? Oh , you must leave the amount to my free will and pleasure . 
I shall give you what I think fit . 
But my black day was not far off . 
I was a mighty charitable woman , and always willing to give to the bacahs and other beggars that came about . 
There I sat , quite proud , and more happy than I had ever felt in my life before and the unfortunates began to make their appearance . 
a dark man , who was led about by a gossoon after him a simpley , and after the simpleton somebody else as much or more unfortunate . 
At last every measure of meal was emptied , and there I sat in my house with nothing to give away provided an unfortunate should come . 
Says the colleen 'Let's hope no one else will come there have been thirteen of them already . 
'You must excuse me , good mistress , says I , 'but I have no more meal in the house . 
Those thirteen measures which you see there empty were full this morning , for what was in them I have given away to unfortunates . 
So the Virgin and Child help you . 
'Do you choose to give me an alms ? she shrieked , so that you might have heard her to Londonderry . 
'If ye have no meal give me something else . 
'You must excuse me , good lady , says I 'it is my custom to give alms in meal , and in nothing else . 
I have none in the house now but if ye come on the morrow ye shall have a triple measure . 
They are cramped words , but I guessed that was the meaning , or something of the kind . 
I meant by crossing that she should call it back or do something that would take the venom out of it . 
So the colleen left her , and came back , crying and frighted . 
At night came home the boys , and found their mother sitting on the stool , like one stupefied . 
'What's the matter with you , mother ? they said . 
'Get up and help us to unpack . 
We have brought home plenty of things on the car , and amongst others a whole boll of meal . 
'Come , mother , said they , 'get up and help us to unload ! never mind the prayer of the monstrous woman it is all nonsense . 
And little did I care for their grumblings and cursings . 
In a little time I ceased to pay any heed to the farming business , or to the affairs of the house , so that my sons had no comfort in their home . 
'These , however , said he , 'I'll soon cast out from her , and then the woman will be a holy cratur , much better than she ever was before . 
I had often looked at the nose , when the divil was upon me , and felt an inclination to seize hold of it , just to see how it felt . 
'Daughter , said he when he saw me , 'the work is nearly over . 
Hot and inctious did it feel . 
Myself and son wandered together for an hour or two , then , having a quarrel with each other , we parted , he going one way and I another . 
Some little time after I heard that he was transported . 
As for myself , I thought I might as well take a leaf out of the woman's book who had been the ruin of me . 
So I went about bidding people give me alms for the glory of God , and threatening those who gave me nothing that the mass should never comfort them . 
It's a dreadful curse that , honey and I would advise people to avoid it even though they give away all they have . 
If you have no comfort in the mass , you will have comfort in nothing else . 
The other is a sodger . 
Is he a comfort to me ? Not a bit . 
Now , honey , ye have heard the story of Johanna Colgan , the bedivilled woman . 
Give her now a dacent alms and let her go ! Would you consider sixpence a decent alms ? I would . 
If you give me sixpence , I will not say my prayer over ye . 
Would you give me a blessing ? I would not . 
A bedivilled woman has no blessing to give . 
Surely if you are able to ask people to give you alms for the glory of God , you are able to give a blessing . 
Bodderation ! are ye going to give me sixpence ? No ! here's a shilling for you ! Take it and go in peace . 
There's no pace for me , said Johanna Colgan , taking the money . 
What did the monstrous female say to me ? 'Biaidh an taifrionn gan sholas duit a bhean shalach . 
This is my pace hoorah ! hoorah ! then giving two or three grotesque topples she hurried away in the direction of Merthyr Tydvil . 
CHAPTER CVI Pen y Glas Salt of the Earth The Quakers' Yard The Rhugylgroen . 
AS I proceeded on my way the scenery to the south on the farther side of the river became surprisingly beautiful . 
Here and there were white farm houses one of them , which I was told was called Pen y Glas , was a truly lovely little place . 
After some time the valley assumed the form of an immense basin , enormous mountains composed its sides . 
In the middle rose hills of some altitude , but completely overcrowned by the mountains around . 
These hills exhibited pleasant inclosures , and were beautifully dotted with white farm houses . 
Down below meandered the Taf , its reaches shining with a silver like splendour . 
The whole together formed an exquisite picture , in which there was much sublimity , much still quiet life , and not a little of fantastic fairy loveliness . 
Shortly afterwards meeting a man I asked him how far it was to Caerfili . 
When you come to the Quakers' Yard , which is a little way further on , you will be seven miles from Caerfili . 
What is the Quakers' Yard ? A place where the people called Quakers bury their dead . 
Is there a village near it ? There is , and the village is called by the same name . 
Are there any Quakers in it ? Not one , nor in the neighbourhood , but there are some , I believe , in Cardiff . 
Why do they bury their dead there ? You should ask them , not me . 
I know nothing about them , and don't want they are a bad set of people . 
Did they ever do you any harm ? Can't say they did . 
Indeed I never saw one in the whole of my life . 
Then why do you call them bad ? Because everybody says they are . 
I don't I have always found them the salt of the earth . 
Then it is salt that has lost its savour . 
But perhaps you are one of them ? No , I belong to the Church of England . 
Then good night to you . 
I thought at first that you were one of our ministers , and had hoped to hear from you something profitable and conducive to salvation , but Well , so you shall . 
Never speak ill of people of whom you know nothing . 
If that isn't a saying conducive to salvation , I know not what is . 
I soon reached the village . 
Singular enough , the people of the very first house , at which I inquired about the Quakers' Yard , were entrusted with the care of it . 
On my expressing a wish to see it , a young woman took down a key , and said that if I would follow her she would show it me . 
The Quakers' burying place is situated on a little peninsula or tongue of land , having a brook on its eastern and northern sides , and on its western the Taf . 
It is a little oblong yard , with low walls , partly overhung with ivy . 
The entrance is a porch to the south . 
And of MARY EDMUNDS Who died January the fourth aged . 
The beams of the descending sun gilded the Quakers' burial ground as I trod its precincts . 
This name it probably acquired from having belonged in times of old to some monkish establishment . 
The moon now arose and the night was delightful . 
As I was wandering along I heard again the same wild noise which I had heard the night before , on the other side of Merthyr Tydvil . 
The cry of the owl afar off in the woodlands . 
Oh that strange bird ! Oh that strange cry ! The Welsh , as I have said on a former occasion , call the owl Dylluan . 
Amongst the cowydds of Ab Gwilym there is one to the dylluan . 
The Rhugylgroen , it will be as well to observe , is a dry sheepskin containing a number of pebbles , and is used as a rattle for frightening crows . 
The likening the visage of the owl to the dirty face of an old abbess is capital , and the likening the cry to the noise of the rhugylgroen is anything but unfortunate . 
For , after all , what does the voice of the owl so much resemble as a diabolical rattle . 
I'm sure I don't know . 
CHAPTER CVII Caerfili Castle Sir Charles The Waiter Inkerman . 
I SLEPT well during the night . 
In the morning after breakfast I went to see the castle , over which I was conducted by a woman who was intrusted with its care . 
It was one of the strongholds which belonged to the Spencers , and served for a short time as a retreat to the unfortunate Edward the Second . 
The name Caerfili is said to signify the Castle of Haste , and to have been bestowed on the pile because it was built in a hurry . 
Caerfili , however , was never built in a hurry , as the remains show . 
Moreover , the Welsh word for haste is not fil but ffrwst . 
Fil means a scudding or darting through the air , which can have nothing to do with the building of a castle . 
Caerfili signifies Philip's City , and was called so after one Philip a saint . 
I started from Caerfili at eleven for Newport , distant about seventeen miles . 
Passing through a toll gate I ascended an acclivity , from the top of which I obtained a full view of the castle , looking stern , dark and majestic . 
Whom does that work belong to ? said I to a man nearly as black as a chimney sweep . 
Who does it belong to ? Why , to Sir Charles . 
Do you mean Sir Charles Morgan ? I don't know . 
I only know that it belongs to Sir Charles , the kindest hearted and richest man in Wales and in England too . 
Passing some cottages I heard a group of children speaking English . 
Asked an intelligent looking girl if she could speak Welsh . 
Yes , said she , I can speak it , but not very well . 
There is not much Welsh spoken by the children hereabout . 
The old folks hold more to it . 
Shortly afterwards I emerged from the coom or valley of the Rhymni , and entered upon a fertile and tolerably level district . 
Passed by Llanawst and Machen . 
The day which had been very fine now became dark and gloomy . 
And is the gentleman their brother ? No ! the brother is in the Crim fighting with the Roosiaid . 
I don't know who yon gentleman be . 
Where does Sir Charles live ? Down in the Dyfryn , not far from Basallaig . 
I soon reached Basallaig , a pleasant village standing in a valley and nearly surrounded by the groves of Sir Charles Morgan . 
So I went in and called for a pint of ale . 
I reached Newport at about half past four , and put up at a large and handsome inn called the King's Head . 
During dinner the waiter , unasked , related to me his history . 
He was a short thick fellow of about forty , with a very disturbed and frightened expression of countenance . 
That at last he thought his best plan would be to decamp , and accordingly took French leave early one morning . 
I was sorry to find that my countrymen had suffered dreadfully , and would have been utterly destroyed but for the opportune arrival of the French . 
In my childhood , said I , the Russians used to help us against the French now the French help us against the Russians . 
NEWPORT is a large town in Monmouthshire , and had once walls and a castle . 
It is called in Welsh Cas Newydd ar Wysg , or the New Castle upon the Usk . 
I left Newport at about ten o'clock on the th the roads were very wet , there having been a deluge of rain during the night . 
The morning was a regular November one , dull and gloomy . 
Desirous of knowing whereabouts in these parts the Welsh language ceased , I interrogated several people whom I met . 
First spoke to Esther Williams . 
Passed through Pennow or Penhow , a small village . 
The scenery in the neighbourhood of this place is highly interesting . 
To the north west at some distance is Mynydd Turvey , a sharp pointed blue mountain . 
Thence to Llanvaches , a pretty little village . 
Well , said I , I beg your pardon . 
How is it all wid ye ? Quite well . 
How is it wid yere hanner ? Tolerably . 
Where do you come from ? From Chepstow , yere hanner . 
And where are you going to ? To Newport , yere hanner . 
And I come from Newport , and am going to Chepstow . 
Where's Tourlough and his wife ? At Cardiff , yere hanner I shall join them again to morrow . 
Have you been long away from them ? About a week , yere hanner . 
And what have you been doing ? Selling my needles , yere hanner . 
Oh ! you sell needles . 
Well , I am glad to have met you . 
There's a nice little inn on the right won't you come in and have some refreshment ? Thank yere hanner I have no objection to take a glass wid an old friend . 
Well , then , come in you must be tired , and I shall be glad to have some conversation with you . 
We went into the inn a little tidy place . 
On my calling , a respectable looking old man made his appearance behind a bar . 
Well , said I , I suppose you have Irish here's slainte Slainte yuit a shaoi , said the girl , tasting her peppermint . 
Well how do you like it ? It's very nice indeed . 
That's more than I can say of the ale , which , like all the ale in these parts , is bitter . 
Well , what part of Ireland do you come from ? From no part at all . 
I never was in Ireland in my life . 
I am from Scotland Road , Manchester . 
Why , I thought you were Irish ? And so I am and all the more from being born where I was . 
There's not such a place for Irish in all the world as Scotland Road . 
Were your father and mother from Ireland ? My mother was from Ireland my father was Irish of Scotland Road , where they met and married . 
As soon as I was able , I helped my mother in making and disposing of the whiskey and in selling the fruit . 
As for the other children , they all died when young , of favers , of which there is always plenty in Scotland Road . 
About four years ago that is , when I was just fifteen there was a great quarrel among the workmen about wages . 
Some wanted more than their masters were willing to give others were willing to take what was offered them . 
Those who were dissatisfied were called bricks those who were not were called dungs . 
My father was a brick and , being a good man with his fists , was looked upon as a very proper person to fight a principal man amongst the dungs . 
They fought in the fields near Salford for a pound a side . 
She , however , did not suffer all her sentence , for before she had been in prison three months she caught a disorder which carried her off . 
I went on selling fruit by myself whilst she was in trouble , and for some time after her death , but very lonely and melancholy . 
Do you ever do anything in the way of striopachas ? Oh no ! I never do anything in that line I would be burnt first . 
I wonder you should dream of such a thing . 
Why surely it is not worse than buying things of servants , who no doubt steal them from their employers , or telling fortunes , which is dealing with the devil . 
All Irish women have a dread of striopachas . 
It's the only thing that frights them I manes the wild Irish , for as for the quality women I have heard they are no bit better than the English . 
Come , yere hanner , let's talk of something else . 
You were saying now that you were thinking of leaving off fortune telling and buying things of servants . 
Do you mean to depend upon your needles alone ? No I am thinking of leaving off tramping altogether and going to the Tir na Siar . 
Isn't that America ? It is , yere hanner the land of the west is America . 
A long way for a lone girl . 
I should not be alone , yere hanner I should be wid my uncle Tourlough and his wife . 
Are they going to America ? They are , yere hanner they intends leaving off business and going to America next spring . 
And can't you get rid of them here ? We cannot , yere hanner . 
If we stay here we must go on tramping , and it is well known that doing them things is part of tramping . 
And what would you do in America ? Oh , we could do plenty of things in America most likely we should buy a piece of land and settle down . 
Of what religion do you call yourselves now ? I don't know , yere hanner we are clane unsettled about religion . 
Oh it will never do to belong to the Popish religion , a religion which upholds idol worship and persecutes the Bible you should belong to the Church of England . 
Well , perhaps we should , yere hanner , if its ministers were not such proud violent men . 
Oh , you little know how they look down upon all poor people , especially on us tramps . 
Perhaps , after all , said I you had better join the Methodists I should say that their ways would suit you better than those of any other denomination of Christians . 
Yere hanner knows nothing about them , otherwise ye wouldn't talk in that manner . 
Their ways would never do for people who want to have done with lying and staring , and have always kept themselves clane from striopachas . 
But what is far worse , they do that which the wildest calleen t'other side of Ougteraarde would be burnt rather than do . 
After that we had nothing more to do with the Methodists as far as religion went . 
Did this affair occur in England or Wales ? In the heart of England , yere hanner we have never been to the Welsh chapels , for we know little of the language . 
Well , I am glad it didn't happen in Wales I have rather a high opinion of the Welsh Methodist . 
The worthiest creature I ever knew was a Welsh Methodist . 
And now I must leave you and make the best of my way to Chepstow . 
Can't yere hanner give me God before ye go ? I can give you half a crown to help you on your way to America . 
I want no half crowns , yere hanner but if ye would give me God I'd bless ye . 
What do you mean by giving you God ? Putting Him in my heart by some good counsel which will guide me through life . 
The only good counsel I can give you is to keep the commandments one of them it seems you have always kept . 
Follow the rest and you can't go very wrong . 
I wish I knew them better than I do , yere hanner . 
Can't you read ? Oh no , yere hanner , I can't read , neither can Tourlough nor his wife . 
Well , learn to read as soon as possible . 
When you have got to America and settled down you will have time enough to learn to read . 
Shall we be better , yere hanner , after we have learnt to read ? Let's hope you will . 
If they have , the more shame for them , for they can have no excuse . 
Well , whether you learn to read or not , still eschew striopachas , don't steal , don't deceive , and worship God in spirit , not in image . 
That's the best counsel I can give you . 
And very good counsel it is , yere hanner , and I will try to follow it , and now , yere hanner , let us go our two ways . 
We placed our glasses upon the bar and went out . 
In the middle of the road we shook hands and parted , she going towards Newport and I towards Chepstow . 
After walking a few yards I turned round and looked after her . 
Surely , said I to myself , there never was an object less promising in appearance . 
Who would think that there could be all the good sense and proper feeling in that uncouth girl which there really is ? CHAPTER CIX Arrival at Chepstow Stirring Lyric Conclusion . 
No Welsh is spoken at Caer Went , nor to the east of it , nor indeed for two or three miles before you reach it from the west . 
The country between it and Chepstow , from which it is distant about four miles , is delightfully green , but somewhat tame . 
Chepstow stands on the lower part of a hill , near to where the beautiful Wye joins the noble Severn . 
The British name of the place is Aber Wye or the disemboguement of the Wye . 
Then leaving my satchel behind me I went to the castle , amongst the ruins of which I groped and wandered for nearly an hour , occasionally repeating verses of the Norman Horseshoe . 
I then went to the Wye and drank of the waters at its mouth , even as some time before I had drunk of the waters at its source . 
THE original home of the Cumro was Southern Hindustan , the extreme point of which , Cape Comorin , derived from him its name . 
It may be here asked what is the exact meaning of the word Cumro ? The true meaning of the word is a youth . 
It is connected with a Sanscrit word , signifying a youth , and likewise a prince . 
Frank or Frenchman , a free , brave fellow Dane , an honest man Turk , a handsome lad Arab , a sprightly fellow . 
Lastly , Romany Chal , the name by which the Gypsy styles himself , signifying not an Egyptian , but a lad of Rome . 
The language of the Cumro is called after him Cumraeg . 
The number of Sanscritic words which the Cumric and Gaelic possess is considerable . 
The Welsh , however , frequently possesses the primary word when the Irish does not . 
Of this the following is an instance . 
One of the numerous Irish words for a mountain is codadh . 
This word is almost identical with the Sanscrit kuta , which also signifies a mountain but kuta and codadh are only secondary words . 
The Sanscrit possesses the radical of kuta , and that is kuda , to heap up , but the Irish does not possess the radical of codadh . 
Till a house is raised there is no house , and there is no hill till the Nara or Omnipotent says ARISE . 
The Welsh is one of the most copious languages of the world , as it contains at least eighty thousand words . 
It has seven vowels w in Welsh being pronounced like oo , and y like u and i . 
Its most remarkable feature is the mutation of initial consonants , to explain which properly would require more space than I can afford . 
The nouns are of two numbers , the singular and plural , and a few have a dual number . 
The genders are three , the Masculine , the Feminine and the Neuter . 
There are twelve plural terminations of nouns , of which the most common is au . 
which are not used in the plural without the addition of diminutive terminations , for example adar , birds , aderyn , a bird gwenyn , bees , gwenynen , a single bee . 
There are different kinds of adjectives some have a plural , some have none some have a feminine form , others have not the most common plural termination is ion . 
It is said by some that the verb has properly no present tense , the future being used instead . 
The verbs present many difficulties , and there are many defective and irregular ones . 
In the irregularities of its verbs the Welsh language very much resembles the Irish . 
The numerals dau , tri , and pedwar , or two , three , and four , have feminine forms , becoming when preceding feminine nouns , dwy , tair , and pedair . 
It is curious that the Irish word for five , cuig , is in like manner quite as perplexing as the Welsh word for four . 
The Irish word for five is not a Sanscritic word , pump , the Welsh word for five , is . 
I have said that the Welsh is exceedingly copious . 
Its copiousness , however , does not proceed , like that of the English , from borrowing from other languages . 
Perhaps in no language but the Welsh , could an eel be mentioned in lofty poetry Lysowen is perfect music . 
vir , a man Dutch , vuur , fire Turkish , er , a man Heb . 
nitha , water Nef , heaven Nabhas Russian , nabeca , the heavens Lat . 
Nerth , strength , power Nara , man , the spirit of God Gr . 
DICTIOINNAIRE TARTARE MANTCHOU , par Amyot . 
Tome second , p , . 
From comparing the words in that list one might feel disposed to rush to the conclusion that the Cumric sprang from the Sanscrit , the sacred language of sunny Hindustan . 
That vira at one time meant man in general , as well as fire , there can be no doubt . 
It is singular how this word or something strikingly like it , occurs in various European languages , sometimes as man , sometimes as fire . 
Vir in Latin signifies man , but vuur in Dutch signifies fire . 
In like manner fear in Irish signifies a man , but fire in English signifies the consuming , or , as the Hindus would call it , the producing element . 
Pawb a'i cenfydd , o bydd bai , A Bawddyn , er na byddai . 
One or two of the characters and incidents in this Saga are mentioned in the Romany Rye . 
A partial translation of the Saga , made by myself , has been many years in existence . 
It forms part of a mountain of unpublished translations from the Northern languages . 
In my younger days no London publisher , or indeed magazine editor , would look at anything from the Norse , Danish , etc . 
All these three names are very common in Norfolk , the population of which is of Norse origin . 
Skarphethin is at present pronounced Sharpin . 
Skarphethin , interpreted , is a keen pirate . 
Eryri likewise signifies an excrescence or scrofulous eruption . 
It is possible that many will be disposed to maintain that in the case of Snowdon the word is intended to express a rugged excrescence or eruption on the surface of the earth . 
Essay on the Origin of the English Stage by Bishop Percy . 
The above account is chiefly taken from the curious Welsh book called Dych y prif Oesoedd . 
For an account of this worm , which has various denominations , see article Fasciola Hepatica in any Encyclopaedia . 
Amongst others a kind of novel called The Adventures of Twm Shon Catty , a Wild Wag of Wales . 
It possesses considerable literary merit , the language being pure , and many of the descriptions graphic . 
By far the greater part of it , however , would serve for the life of any young Welsh peasant , quite as well as for that of Twm Shon Catti . 
Its grand fault is endeavouring to invest Twm Shon with a character of honesty , and to make his exploits appear rather those of a wild young waggish fellow than of a robber . 
This was committing a great mistake . 
The good gentlewoman was probably thinking of the celebrated king Brian Boromhe slain at the battle of Clontarf . 
Drych y Prif Oesoedd , p . 
Several cases have occurred connected with these prayers , corresponding in many respects with the case detailed above . 
Sanscrit , Kali , a hero . 
Sanscrit , Rama , Ramana , a husband . 
Romany chal , son of Rome , lad of Rome . 
Romany chi , daughter of Rome , girl of Rome . 
Chal , chiel , child , the Russian cheloviek , a man , and the Sanscrit Jana , to be born , are all kindred words . 
For a clear and satisfactory account of this system see Owen's Welsh Grammar , p . 
Pronounced vile or wile here the principle of literal mutation is at work . 
aurum , gold AERis , of brass . 
Perhaps the true meaning of ara , aurum , c . 
, is unrefined metal if so , we have the root of them all in our own word ore . 
The Eternal , the divine imperishable spirit pervading the universe . 
WILSON'S SANSCRIT DICTIONARY , p . 
