and he went into the hall of his house , which was called the High House of Upmeads , and sent for his four sons to come to him . 
But thou art the lord in this land , and thou must rule . 
Have I said well , brethren ? And they all said Yea , yea . 
Then said the king Good ! now is the sun high and hot yet if ye ride softly ye may come to some good harbour before nightfall without foundering your horses . 
So come ye in an hour's space to the Four want way , and there and then will I order your departure . 
The lord on the other side thereof was a mightier man than King Pete , albeit he was a bishop , and a baron of Holy Church . 
As for Ralph the youngest , his father would not have him ride the Wood Debateable as yet . 
So they came and stood before their father , waiting for his word , and wondering what it would be . 
Now I know not how to choose by mine own wit which of you shall ride and which abide . 
Blaise is wise and prudent , but no great man of his hands . 
Yet may he do better than you others , and I deem that he will do so . 
How say ye , sons , is this to your liking ? They all said yea . 
Then quoth the king Nicholas , bring hither the straws ready dight , and I will give them my sons to draw . 
He stayed a moment and then said Blaise fareth eastward and Richard with him . 
Here at least for thee is the bounteous board and the full cup , and the love of kindred and well willers , and the fellowship of the folk . 
O well is thee , my son , and happy shalt thou be ! But the young man knit his brows and said no word in answer . 
Then came forward those three brethren who were to fare at all adventure , and they stood before the old man saying nought . 
Therewith he drew out of his pouch three little bags , and said Take ye each one of these for therein is all that my treasury may shed as now . 
Take up each what there is , and do the best ye may therewith . 
But Nicholas slowly mounted his hackney and led Ralph's war horse with him home again to King Peter's House . 
So that never thereafter would he be art and part with those who hunted outlaws to slay them . 
Albeit perchance the words abode with him . 
CHAPTER Ralph Cometh to the Cheaping Town He slept in an upper chamber in a turret of the House , which chamber was his own , and none might meddle with it . 
Then he clomb up into the saddle , and went his ways splashing across the ford , before the sun had arisen , while the throstle cocks were yet amidst their first song . 
Therewith the carle led him into the house and if it were goodly without , within it was better . 
Also , whereas the chapman's ware bowers were hard by the chamber , there was a pleasant mingled smell therefrom floating about . 
Said Ralph , reddening withal I have an errand that way . 
An errand of King Peter's or thine own ? said Clement . 
Of King Peter's , if ye must wot , said Ralph . 
And hold ! here is for a token thereof . 
But as for its wheraebouts , ye shall not find it in these parts . 
But , my lord , take it not amiss that I spake about the mayor and the tipstaves for it was but a jest , as thou mayest well wot . 
Well , quoth Ralph , the first holy man I meet shall bless them for me . 
That shall he not , said the dame , that shall he not . 
That is all one as the duck taketh to water despite of the hen that hath hatched her . 
Well , it was not to be thought that Upmeads would hold you lords much longer . 
Or what sayest thou , gossip ? Quoth the dame I could weep for thy mother but for thee nought at all . 
It is good that thou shouldest do thy will in the season of youth and the days of thy pleasure . 
Yea , and I deem that thou shalt come back again great and worshipful and I am called somewhat foreseeing . 
Only look to it that thou keep the pretty thing that I have just given thee . 
Now , lord , go thou where thou wilt , whether I say go or abide and forsooth I am no man of King Peter's , that I should stay thee . 
For much folk flocketh to his town and live well therein and there is great recourse of chapmen thither . 
No better market is there betwixt this and Babylon . 
Ye shall raise none such in Upmeads . 
Wilt thou now be kinder , and bid thy boy bring round Falcon our horse for we have far to go , and must begone straight away . 
Yea , lord , said Clement , even so will I do . 
Then he spake aloud again , and said I must now begone to my lads , and I will send one round with thy war horse . 
But take my rede , my lord , and become the man of the Abbot of St . 
Mary's of Higham , and all will be well . 
She smiled and patted his cheek , and said Thou art no very prudent child , king's son . 
But it comes into my mind that my master did not mean thee to go away empty handed else had he not departed and left us twain together . 
But now thou hast as much or more as any one of thy brethren . 
Thou mightest tell him , said Ralph , that I am gone to take service with the Abbot of St . 
Well , she said , I shall say what likes me when the hour is at hand . 
Lo , here ! thine horse . 
Abide yet a moment of time , and then go whither thou needs must , like the wind of the summer day . 
Albeit she was a childless woman . 
Then she turned her back into the chamber and laid her head on the table and wept . 
Then came in the goodman quietly and stood by her and she heeded him not . 
Yet thou didst well to give our lord the money . 
Meanwhile thou hast done well , sweetheart , so be glad . 
Therewith he kissed her and went his ways to his merchandize , and she to the ordering of her house , grieved but not unhappy . 
Nicholas , who was his good lord and patron , that he might ask of him a blessing on his journey . 
He was settling himself in his saddle as he spoke , and now he shook his rein , and rode off speedily toward the hill road . 
But presently he let his wonder run off him , and went his ways into the church , wherein he found his good lord and friend St . 
A tree with leaves was done on that hill side , and on either hand of it a beast like a bear ramping up against the tree and these signs were very ancient . 
At the top of it was an earth work of the ancient folk , which also was called Bear Castle . 
And now Ralph rode over the hill's brow into it for the walls had been beaten down in places long and long ago . 
So they stood in the way and hailed him when the sheep were gone past and the man with the spear asked him whither away . 
I am turned toward Higham on the Way , quoth he and how many miles shall I ride ere I get there ? Said one of them Little less than twenty , lord . 
Well then , quoth Ralph , there is time for bever . 
Said Wat Why , neighbour , why ! thy wit is none too hasty . 
The wool that a knight sheareth is war and battle that is wounding and death but the cry is the talk and boasting and minstrelsy that goeth before all this . 
Now , fair lord , I drink to thy crown of valour , and thy good luck and we thank thee for the wine and yet more for the blithe fellowship . 
Moreover this is the Eve of St . 
John , and we deem the token the worse therefor . 
But at last he said I cannot tell what there is in it herein am I no help to you . 
To day I am but little though I may one day be great . 
Yet this may I do for you tomorrow will I let sing a mass in St . 
Mary's Church on your behoof . 
So may the Mother of God help me at need ! Said the old shepherd Thou hast sworn an oath , and it is a good oath , and well sworn . 
Now if thou dost as thou swearest , words can but little thanks , yet deeds may . 
So Ralph rode down the slopes and was brisk about it , for it was drawing toward sunset , and he knew not at what hour they shut their gates . 
The gate was fair and strong , but Ralph saw no men at arms about it that evening . 
He rode into the street unquestioned , and therein was the throng great of people clad in fair and gay attire and presently Ralph called to mind that this was St . 
John's Eve , so that he knew that there was some feast toward . 
The monk shook his head and said See ye the folk ? It is holiday time , and midsummer after haysel . 
Ye shall scarce get lodging outside our house . 
But what then ? Come thou thither straightway and have harbour of the best , and see our prior , who loveth young and brisk men at arms like to thee . 
Lo now ! the throng openeth a little I will walk by thy bridle and lead thee the shortest road thither . 
Like dark gold it showed under the evening sun , and the painted and gilded imagery shone like jewels upon it . 
Yea , said the monk , as he noted Ralph's wonder at this wonder a most goodly house it is , and happy shall they be that dwell there . 
Therewith he led Ralph on , turning aside through the great square . 
Ralph saw that there were many folk therein , though it was too big to be thronged thick with them . 
Amidst of it was now a great pile of wood hung about with flowers , and hard by it a stage built up with hangings of rich cloth on one side thereof . 
He asked the monk what this might mean , and he told him the wood was for the Midsummer bale fire , and the stage for the show that should come thereafter . 
He was shown to a seat on the dais within two of the subprior's , and beside him sat an honourable lord , a vassal of St . 
Every man there who spoke with Ralph , and they were many , was exceeding courteous to him and he heard much talk about him of the wealth of the lands of St . 
Many and many were the torches and cressets burning steadily in the calm air , so that , as aforesaid , night was turned into day . 
But on the scaffold aforesaid were standing bright and gay figures , whose names or what they were Ralph had no time to ask . 
Then came thereon one clad like a king holding a fair maiden by the hand , and with him was a dame richly clad and with a crown on her head . 
Then Ralph sat down again somewhat abashed and looked on yet was his heart in his mouth the while . 
Then Ralph knew that this was a play of the fight of St . 
George and the maiden , and with them were minstrels who fell to playing upon harps and fiddles while other some fell to singing a sweet song in honour of St . 
George , and the maiden delivered . 
So when it was all done , the monk said This play is set forth by the men at arms of our lord Abbot , who have great devotion toward St . 
George , and he is their friend and their good lord . 
But hereafter will be other plays , of wild men and their feasting in the woods in the Golden Age of the world and that is done by the scribes and the limners . 
And after that will be a pageant of St . 
Agnes ordered by the clothiers and the webbers , which be both many and deft in this good town . 
So there they abode a space looking down on the square and its throng , and the bells , which had been ringing when they came up , now ceased a while . 
All this the tyrants round about , that hate holy Church and oppress the poor , know full well therefore we live in peace in these lands . 
Yea , said Ralph , doubtless thou sayest sooth yet I wot not that I am come forth to seek a master . 
Said the brother Nay , do but see the lord Abbot , as thou mayst do to morrow , if thou wilt . 
I would have his blessing , said Ralph . 
No less shalt thou have , said the brother but look you down yonder for I can see tokens that my lord is even now coming forth . 
Well , said the monk , yet mayst thou come back again so at present I will make no more words about it . 
So they went down , and came out amidst the throng , above which the bale still flared high , making the summer night as light as day . 
Then all folk went down upon their knees , and thus abode him . 
Ralph caught his eye , and he smiled on the goodly young man so kindly , that for a moment Ralph deemed that he would dwell in St . 
Mary's House for a little while for , thought he , if my father , or Nicholas , hear of me therein , they must even let me alone to abide here . 
They set fire to the same , and then trundled it blazing round about the bale twelve times . 
Then was all the throng mingled together , and folk trod the embers of the bale under foot , and scattered them hither and thither all over the square . 
As he spake there sounded a great horn over the square , and the Abbot rose in his place and blessed all the people once more . 
Then said the monk Come then , fair field lord , now shalt thou have thy will of bed . 
And he laughed therewith , and drew Ralph out of the throng and brought him into the Abbey , and into a fair little chamber , on the wall whereof was pictured St . 
Julian the lord and friend of wayfarers . 
Then he brought Ralph the wine and spices , and gave him good night , and went his ways . 
So many strange things have I seen , that surely my dreams shall be full of them for even now I seem to see them , though I waken . 
Therewith he awoke and saw that day was dawning , and heard the minster clock strike three , and heard the thrushes singing their first song in the Prior's garden . 
Then he turned about and slept , and dreamed no more till he woke up in the bright sunny morning . 
CHAPTER Ralph Goeth His Ways From the Abbey of St . 
Where be the bale fires ? said Ralph , not yet fully awake . 
Ralph emptied the bowl hastily , got out of bed , and sat on the bed naked , save that on his neck was Dame Katherine's gift . 
Now as he spake he looked anxiously , nay , it may be said greedily , at the young man . 
But Ralph said nought for in his heart he was determined not to chaffer away his gossip's gift for any shaveling's token . 
Then Ralph shook his rein , and rode out of the abbey gate , smiling at the lay brethren and the men at arms who hung about there . 
For , said he , thou art fair and ailest nought that is clear to see neither dwellest thou in penury , but by seeming hast enough and to spare . 
All is well with me if one thing were not . 
What is thy need then ? said Ralph , if perchance I might amend it . 
And as he looked on her he deemed her yet fairer than he had done at first . 
But she stayed her weeping and sobbing and said Sir , I fear me that I have lost a dear friend . 
What wood is that ? said he . 
She said The Wood Perilous , that lieth betwixt us and the Burg of the Four Friths , and all about the Burg . 
Therefore take my rede , and abide till the Chapmen wend thither from Higham , who ride many in company . 
And she fell a weeping with the telling of the tale . 
Keep a good heart , maiden maybe he is safe and sound oft are young men fond to wander wide , even as I myself . 
She looked at him hard and said If thou hast stolen thyself away from them that love thee , thou hast done amiss . 
Though thou art a lord , and so fair as I see thee , yet will I tell thee so much . 
Ralph reddened and answered nought but deemed the maiden both fair and sweet . 
But she said Whether thou hast done well or ill , do no worse but abide till the Chapmen come from Higham , on their way to the Burg of the Four Friths . 
Here mayst thou lodge well and safely if thou wilt . 
Or if our hall be not dainty enough for thee , then go back to Higham I warrant me the monks will give thee good guesting as long as thou wilt . 
I would not have thy life spilt . 
At last he said Well then , I must depart , no more learned than I came but yet am I less hungry and thirsty than I came and have thou thanks therefor . 
Therewith he took from his pouch a gold piece of Upmeads , which was good , and of the touch of the Easterlings , and held it out to her . 
And she put out her open hand and he put the money in it but thought it good to hold her hand a while , and she gainsayed him not . 
Then he said Well then , I must needs depart with things left as they are wilt thou bid thy brother bring hither my horse , for time presses . 
, Yet do thine utmost , yet shalt thou not get to the Burg before nightfall . 
O wilt thou not tarry ? Nay , he said , my heart will not suffer it lest I deem myself a dastard . 
Then he said Now I depart . 
Therewith she took his face between her hands , and kissed him well favouredly so that the hour seemed good to him . 
Verily I deem that if thou wert to meet a company of foemen , thou wouldest compel them to do thy bidding . 
Farewell to thee maiden , said Ralph , and mayst thou find thy beloved whole and well , and that speedily . 
CHAPTER Ralph Cometh to the Wood Perilous . 
, for it was now the hottest of the day . 
There was still a beaten way between the tree boles , though not overwide , albeit , a highway , since it pierced the wood . 
Thereby as he rode he beheld deer , both buck and hart and roe , and other wild things , but for a long while no man . 
The afternoon wore and still he rode the oak wood , and deemed it a goodly forest for the greatest king on earth . 
So he lay on the ground to rest him and let his horse stray about and bite the grass for the beast loved him and would come at his call or his whistle . 
The company of those about the Knight , Ralph deemed , would number ten score men . 
But to say sooth I seem to know the fashion of his gear , even as Duke Jacob knew Joseph's tabard . 
Ralph reddened as he answered I am of Upmeads beyond the down country and I pray thee let me be gone on mine errands . 
It is meet that thou deal with thine own robbers and reivers , but not with me . 
Then cried out one of the bounden men Thou liest , lad , we be no robbers . 
Therewith he turned to Ralph and said How fareth Long Nicholas , my lord ? Ralph reddened again He is well , said he . 
Then he said to his Knight Yea , Sir Aymer , he is of a goodly house and an ancient but thou hearest how he adjureth me . 
Ye shall let his name alone . 
The Knight smiled Then mayst thou fill thy budget with them if thou goest with us , quoth he . 
CHAPTER Another Adventure in the Wood Perilous Ralph left alone pondered a little and thought that he would by no means go hastily to the Burg of the Four Friths . 
Presently they saw the shine of his war gear , and then they came but a little nigher ere they drew rein , and sat on their horses looking toward him . 
Then Ralph saw that they were armed and clad as those of the company which had gone before . 
One of the armed men rode a horse length after his fellow , and bore a long spear over his shoulder . 
Yet Ralph deemed her to be of some degree , whereas he caught the gleam of gold and gems on her hands , and there was a golden chaplet on her head . 
She stood now by the horse's head with her hands folded , looking on , as if what was tiding and to betide , were but a play done for her pleasure . 
Or what will ye with the woman ? Said the man who had the woman in tow Trouble not thine head therewith we lead her to her due doom . 
As for thee , be glad that thou art not her fellow since forsooth thou seemest not to be one of them so go thy ways in peace . 
No foot further will I go , said Ralph , till ye loose the woman and let her go or else tell me what her worst deed is . 
The man laughed , and said That were a long tale to tell and it is little like that thou shalt live to hear the ending thereof . 
Therewith he wagged his head at the spearman , who suddenly let his spear fall into the rest , and spurred , and drave on at Ralph all he might . 
Then Ralph lighted down from his horse , and the woman rose up to him , her white smock all bloody with the slain man . 
He looked at her hard as she spake , and noted that she spake but slowly , and turned red and white and red again as she looked at him . 
But whatever she did , and in spite of her poor attire , he deemed he had never seen woman so fair . 
But whatever may be said of her , no man would have deemed her aught save most lovely . 
Then she took his hand and caressed it , and said again Dost thou deem that thou hast done great things , fair child ? Maybe . 
Yet some will say that thou hast but slain two butchers and if thou wilt say that thou hast delivered me yet it may be that I should have delivered myself ere long . 
Nevertheless hold up thine heart , for I think that greater things await thee . 
So he drew the dead man's feet out of the stirrups , and dragged him away to where the bracken grew deep , and laid him down there , so to say hidden . 
Then he turned back to the lady , who was pacing up and down near the horse as the beast fed quietly on the cool grass . 
So I will abide the morning hereby but I will be wary and let the wood cover me if I may . 
The new comer was much muffled in a wide cloak , but he seemed to be a man low of stature . 
Here have I followed on thy footsteps yet knew I not where thou wouldst be in the forest . 
And now I am glad to have fallen in with thee for I am going a long way . 
Ralph looked on her and himseemed some pain or shame touched his heart , and he said I am a knight adventurous I have nought to do save to seek adventures . 
Why should I not go with thee ? She looked at him earnestly awhile and said Nay , it may not be thou art a lord's son , and I a yeoman's daughter . 
She stopped , and he said nothing in answer . 
Furthermore , said she , it is a long way , and I know not how long . 
Then she said Because thou willest it not because thou hadst liefer make that journey with some one else . 
He reddened in his turn , and said I know of no one else who shall go with me . 
Well , she said , it is all one , I will not have thee go with me . 
Yea , and why not ? said he . 
Then they both kept silence , and when she spoke again her voice was as if she were gay against her will . 
And as for the western way I deem that that will lead me back again to the peopled parts whereof I know therefore I am minded to take the eastern way . 
What sayest thou , fair lord ? Said Ralph I have heard of late that it leadeth presently to Hampton under the Scaur , where dwelleth a people of goodwill . 
Who told thee this tale ? said she . 
And now will I say farewell to thee , for it is most like that I shall not see thee again . 
For indeed I wot that thou shalt soon forget to wish to see me , either at Bourton Abbas or elsewhere so I will say no more than once again farewell . 
Said Ralph I may scarce tell thee till I know myself . 
Awhile ago I was minded for the Burg of the Four Friths but now I am for Hampton under Scaur . 
Yea ? said the carle , when the Devil drives , to hell must we . 
So it is , said Ralph , laughing , and I also may help to spread this table in the wilderness , since there are yet some crumbs in my wallet . 
Let us sit down and fall to at once . 
Nay , I may better that , said Ralph , for I have wherewithal . 
So come on , if thou trusteth in me . 
Ralph yeasaid him , and they went together a furlong from the want way into a little hollow place wherethrough ran a clear stream betwixt thick leaved alders . 
Is it not so ? Maybe , said Ralph , for thou seemest to be a true man . 
Yet again his heart misgave him of what might betide that other maiden at Hampton , and he was unquiet , deeming that he must needs follow her thither . 
Now the carle said Thou hast a tale which thou deemest unmeet for my ears , as it well may be . 
To horse straightway , for certainly there are folk at hand , and they may be foemen , and are most like to be . 
Nay , nay ! They are four , quoth he , as a shout sounded behind them . 
Spur , young lord ! spur ! And thine horse is a mettlesome beast . 
Yea , it will do , it will do . 
Therewith came to Ralph's ears the sound of their horse hoofs beating the turf , and he spurred indeed , and Falcon flew forth . 
Yea , said Ralph , and now I deem thou wilt tell me that to the Burg I needs must . 
Yea , forsooth , said the carle , nor shall we be long , riding thus , ere we come to the Burg Gate . 
And all round the outskirts of the Frank of the Burg are there such like towers to the number of twenty seven . 
Said Ralph I pray thee come with me , good fellow , and show me how easiest to enter this stronghold . 
Then came they to a thorp of the smallest on a rising ground , from the further end of which they could see the walls and towers of the Burg . 
Mary at Higham , said Ralph . 
Yea , said the captain , smiling grimly , even so I might have deemed thou wilt be one of the Lord Abbot's lily lads . 
No I am not , quoth Ralph angrily . 
Well , well , said the captain , what is thy name ? Ralph Motherson , quoth Ralph , knitting his brow . 
Said the captain And whither wilt thou ? Said Ralph , On mine own errands . 
Thou answerest not over freely , quoth the captain . 
Said Ralph , Then is it even for thou askest freely enough . 
Therein thou shalt do well , young man , said the captain then I suppose thou wilt to some hostelry ? tell me which one . 
Said Ralph , Nay , I wot not to which one , knowing not the town . 
But Roger close by him spake and said My lord shall go to the Flower de Luce , which is in the big square . 
The captain broke in on him grimly , Thou wert best not lie . 
see that thou art at the Flower de Luce when thou art called for . 
Ralph thanked him and rode through the gate into the street , and Roger still went beside his stirrup . 
Yea , said Roger , thou art wise indeed to set me down as one of the Dry Tree doubtless that is why I delivered thee from their ambush even now . 
And as for my service , thou mayst need it for indeed I deem thee not so safe as thou deemest thyself in this Burg . 
Nay , but what is the peril ? said Ralph . 
Now Ralph was young and could not abide the blame of thanklessness so he said , Nay , nay , fellow , go we on together to the Flower de Luce . 
The houses were goodly of building , but not very tall , the ways wide and well paved . 
Withal they seemed intent on their business , and payed little heed to Ralph and his fellow , though he was by his attire plainly a stranger . 
Now Ralph sees a house more gaily adorned than most , and a sign hung out from it whereon was done an image of St . 
I jest not , young rider , quoth the armourer . 
Ralph saw that it availed nothing to bicker with the smith , and so went his way somewhat crestfallen , and that the more as he saw Roger grinning a little . 
Over against it they saw the sign of the Flower de Luce , a goodly house and great . 
And at the foot of this gallows were divers folk laughing and talking . 
Nay , said the man , but to morrow they are even now before the judges . 
Roger laughed , and said Simple are ye folk of the Burg and know nought of her shifts . 
I tell thee it is not unlike that she is in the Burg even now , and hath in hand to take out of your prison the four whom ye have caught . 
But one day shall we have her body and soul , and then shall her body have but an evil day of it till she dieth in this world . 
Yea , forsooth , if she can die at all , quoth Roger . 
Therefore I know her forsooth . 
So therewith they went on toward the hostel . 
But note this , when she is the kindest then are her carles the cruellest and she is the kinder to them because they are cruel . 
Ralph pondered what he said , and wondered if this were verily the woman whom he had delivered , or some other . 
Therewithal they came unto the hostel , and found it fair enough within , the hall great and goodly for such a house , and with but three chapmen carles therein . 
Straightway they called for meat , for it was now past noon , and the folk of the house served them when the grooms had taken charge of Falcon . 
And Roger served Ralph as if he were verily his man . 
And forsooth Ralph himself was much of that mind . 
and thereafter came the first of a company of men at arms , foot men , with bills some , and some with bows , and all armed knights and sergeants a horseback . 
He saw no folk in the street save here and there an old woman sitting at the door of her house , and maybe a young child with her . 
Throw wide the gates For nought night waits Though the chase is dead The moon's o'erhead And we need the clear Our spoil to share . 
Shake the lots in the helm then for brethren are we , And the goods of my missing are gainful to thee . 
Lo ! leaps out the last lot and nought have I won , But the maiden unmerry , by battle undone . 
But when they were gone Ralph asked Roger if he knew aught of them , or if they had told him aught . 
Nay , said Roger , they came in here as I sat alone , and had their meat , and spake nought to me , and little to each other . 
I deem them not to be of the Burg . 
Nay , sooth to say , I doubt if they be true men . 
But when the board was dight they bade them sit down with them and eat . 
Said Ralph Are these women also of the Dry Tree ? For I perceive them to be born of the foes of the Burg . 
But these are of the folk of the Wheat wearers , even as those whom thou sawest brought to day amidst the other spoil . 
these worthy lords slay no woman of them , but the men only , whether they be old or young or youngest . 
As for their women they are brought hither and sold at the market cross to the highest bidder . 
And this honour they have , that such of them as be fair , and that is the more part of the younger ones , fetch no ill penny . 
Speak I sooth , my masters ? quoth he , turning toward them of the town . 
So that if the master punish her not for her misdoings , unpunished she needs must go yea even if her deed be mere murder . 
That is sooth , said a somewhat younger man yet whiles it fareth ill with them at the hands of our women . 
Yea , said a third , we were better without such cattle . 
A thrust with a sword and all the tale told , were the better way of dealing with them . 
Said another Yet are the queens good websters , and , lacking them , figured cloth of silk would be far fetched and dear bought here . 
And him seemed the world was worse than he had looked to find it . 
Yet at least we shall not be easy to overcome . 
So indeed it seemeth , said Ralph . 
Yet will I ask of you first one question , and then another . 
Ask on , said the burgher . 
Said Ralph Yet a word on these Wheat wearers it seemeth that ye never fail to overcome them in battle ? But seldom at least , quoth the Burgher . 
I deem it were an easy thing , said the burgher . 
Quoth Ralph Then why do ye not so ? It were but a poor game to play , said the burgher . 
Hah ! what sayest thou ? Said Ralph This seemeth to me but the bare truth yet it is little after the manner of such masterful men as ye be . 
But now , look you , fair sir , my company ariseth from table so I bid thee a good night . 
And now I would that we were well out of the Burg and in the merry greenwood again , and it repents me that I brought thee hither . 
Nay , good fellow , quoth Ralph , heed it not besides , it was me , not thee , that they seemed to doubt of . 
I will depart hence to morrow morning no worser than I came , and leave thee to seek thy fortune here and good luck go with thee . 
This word pleased Ralph , for he was young and lightly put faith in men's words , and loved to be well thought of , and was fain of good fellowship withal . 
Lo here my hand on it ! Roger took his hand , yet therewith his face seemed a little troubled , but he said nought . 
Howbeit , let night bring counsel , and we will see to this to morrow for now I am both sleepy and weary . 
Roger led right on as if he knew the way well , and in a twinkling were they come to a postern in the wall betwixt the East Gate and the South . 
By the said postern Ralph saw certain men standing and on the earth near by , whereas he was keen eyed , he saw more than one man lying moveless . 
Spake Roger softly to the men who stood on their feet Is the rope twined ? Nay , rope twiner , said one of them . 
Then Roger turned and whispered to Ralph Friends . 
Get out thy sword ! Wherewithal the gate was opened , and they all passed out through the wall , and stood above the ditch in the angle nook of a square tower . 
By then they were on the other side he saw a glimmer of the dawn in the eastern heaven , but it was still more than dusk , and no man spoke again . 
Day grew apace , and by then they were under the barn gable which he had seen aloof he saw the other roofs of the grange and heard the bleating of sheep . 
The tall man had the shaft to his ear in a twinkling , and loosed straightway , and nocked and loosed another shaft without staying to note how the first had sped . 
Truly , said another , till we come to water it with the blood of these wretches . 
The long man laughed Thou sayest sooth , said he , but thou art the longest winded of all in talking get on , lads . 
Yet he deemed that there was nought for it now but to go on . 
And now Roger joined himself to him , and spake to him aloud and said So , fair master , thou art out of the peril of death for this bout . 
Art thou all so sure of that ? quoth Ralph , or who are these that be with us ? meseems they smell of the Dry Tree . 
Yea , or rebels and runaways therefrom , said Roger , with a dry grin . 
But whosoever they may be , thou shalt see that they will suffer us to depart whither we will , if we like not their company . 
I will be thy warrant thereof . 
Moreover , said Ralph , I have lost Falcon my horse it is a sore miss of him . 
Therefore if I go with you , ye must so look upon it that I am in your fellowship as one compelled . 
To be short with you , I crave leave to depart and go mine own road . 
The tall man nodded his head , and as the youth drew right back nigh to the thicket , spake to Ralph again . 
And yet if thou think better of it , thou mayst come with us straightway for we have nought to do to tarry here any longer . 
He knew also that it was Roger who had led him into this trap , although he deemed it done with no malice against him . 
So he spake as soberly as the tall man had done . 
Since ye give me the choice , fair sir , I will depart hence with Roger alone , whom ye call my man , though to me he seemeth to be yours . 
Howbeit , he has led me to you once , and belike will do so once more . 
Yea , quoth the big man smiling no whit more than erst , and that will make the fourth time . 
Depart then , fair sir , and take this word with thee that I wish thee good and not evil . 
Meanwhile those others had not loitered , but were a horseback at once , and went their ways from Ralph through the wildwood . 
I suppose thou wilt lead me now by some roundabout road to the stronghold of the Dry Tree . 
It matters little , since thou durst not lead me back into the Burg . 
Such freedom they cannot away with in that fellowship of hard men at arms and soon hadst thou come to harm amongst them . 
So they lighted down and let their horses graze what they could , while they ate and drank amidst which Ralph again asked Roger of whither they were going . 
Said Ralph reddening Be there any women amongst them ? Yea , yea , quoth Roger , smiling a little , doubt not thereof . 
Ralph hearkened as if he heeded little what Roger said but presently he rose up and walked to and fro in short turns with knit brows as one pondering a hard matter . 
Roger said All this ye shall learn later on , and shalt find it but a simple matter and meanwhile I tell thee again that all is for thy gain and thy pleasure . 
But a wide river ran down the midst of it and it was now four hours after noon . 
Said Ralph There is no need to tarry , ride we down to the water . 
So did they , and took the water , which was deep , but not swift . 
And therewith he went off at a hand gallop , and Ralph followed him without more ado . 
Then said Ralph Here have we ridden a fair land , and seen neither house nor herd , neither sheep cote nor shepherd . 
Said Roger Thou wouldst wonder the less didst thou know the story of it . 
What story ? said Ralph . 
Quoth Roger A story of war and wasting . 
Sooth is that , said Roger but there are other things in the tale . 
What things ? said Ralph . 
Quoth Roger Ill hap and sorrow and the Hand of Fate and great Sorcery . 
And dastards withal ? said Ralph . 
Even so , said Roger , yet mingled with valiant men . 
Over long is the tale to tell as now , so low as the sun is so now ride we on with little fear of foemen . 
For my heart tells me of new things , and marvellous and joyous that I shall see ere long . 
For thence have folk sought ere now to the WELL AT THE WORLD'S END . 
Ralph turned to him sharply and said Many times in these few days have I heard that word . 
Dost thou know the meaning thereof ? For as to me I know it not . 
Said Roger Thou mayest well be as wise as I am thereon belike men seek to it for their much thriving , and oftenest find it not . 
Yet have I heard that they be the likeliest with whom all women are in love . 
Ralph held his peace , but Roger noted that he reddened at the word . 
So night being fairly come , they rested a good while , as it would be dawn before moonset . 
Then they rode on again , till now the summer night grew old and waned , but the wood hid the beginnings of dawn . 
Roger pointed to it , and said , Now we are come home , and cried on his wearied beast , who for his part seemed to see the end of his journey . 
There was no serving man to wait on them nor a carle of any kind did they see the old woman only , coming back from the horses , served them at table . 
Ever as she went about she looked long on Ralph , and seemed as if she would have spoken to him , but as often , she glanced at Roger and forbore . 
It was but little after noon of a fair June day , for Ralph had slumbered as it behoved a young man . 
I say to thee , abide beyond those two days if Roger cometh not , and as long as thou art here I will make thee all the cheer I may . 
And who knoweth but thou mayest meet worthy adventures here . 
Such have ere now befallen good knights in this house or anigh it . 
I thank thee , mother , quoth Ralph , and it is like that I may abide here beyond the two days if the adventure befall me not ere then . 
But at least I will bide the eating of my dinner here to day . 
Well is thee , fair lord , said the carline . 
If thou wilt but walk in the meadow but a little half hour all shall be ready for thee . 
Forsooth it had been dight before now , but that I waited thy coming forth from thy chamber , for I would not wake thee . 
And the saints be praised for the long sweet sleep that hath painted thy goodly cheeks . 
So saying she hurried off to the buttery , leaving Ralph laughing at her outspoken flattering words . 
Then he got him out of the hall and the castle , for no door was shut , and there was no man to be seen within or about the house . 
When he came back to the castle gate there was the carline in the wicket peering out to right and left , seeking him to bring him in to dinner . 
Far would many a maiden run to kiss thy mouth , fair lad . 
But now come to thy meat , that thou mayest grow the fairer and last the longer . 
After dinner he rested awhile , and called to the carline and bade her bring him his sword and his basnet . 
Whither wilt thou ? Said he , I would walk abroad to drink the air . 
Wilt thou into the wildwood ? said she . 
Nay , mother , he said , I will but walk about the meadow and look on the hay making folk . 
For that , said the carline , thou needest neither sword nor helm . 
Ralph started as she said the word , but held his peace awhile . 
Then he said And who is lord of this fair land ? There is no lord , but a lady , said the carline . 
How hight she ? said Ralph . 
We call her the Lady of Abundance , said the old woman . 
Is she fair to look on ? said Ralph . 
Of women folk there is none fairer , said the carline as to men , that is another thing . 
I will seek it for thee to morrow if thou wilt . 
Have thou thanks , dame , said he and I pray thee forget it not but now I will go forth . 
Yea , said the carline , but abide a little . 
I knew that thou wouldst go abroad to day , so I made this for thee in the morning and when I was young I was called the garland maker . 
It is better summer wear than thy basnet . 
He thanked her and did it on smiling , but somewhat ruefully for he said to himself This is over old a dame that I should wear a love token from her . 
But when it was on his head , the old dame clapped her hands and cried O there , there ! Now art thou like the image of St . 
Michael in the Choir of Our Lady of the Thorn there is none so lovely as thou . 
I would my Lady could see thee thus surely the sight of thee should gladden her heart . 
And withal thou art not ill clad otherwise . 
Said the old man We thank thee for coming to see us and meseemeth from the look of thee thou art worthy to dwell in my Lady's House . 
What sayest thou ? said Ralph . 
Is she a good lady and a gracious ? O yea , yea , said the carle . 
Will you be her servants ? said Ralph , or what are ye ? Said the carle We be yeomen and her vavassors there is no thralldom in our land . 
Do ye live in good peace for the more part ? said Ralph . 
And when was that ? said Ralph . 
It is as I say , she is the same as she was always . 
Well , said Ralph , I thank thee for the tale thou hast told me , and wish thee more years of peace . 
And to thee , young man , said the carle , I wish a good wish indeed , to wit that thou mayest see the Lady of Abundance here before thou departest . 
So he passed on at first without more words than his greeting . 
Yet presently he turned back again , for he longed to hear some word more concerning the Lady whose coming he abode . 
They stood smiling and blushing as he came up to them again , and heeded their angles little . 
Ralph knew not how to ask another question , so he turned about with a greeting word again , and this time went on steadily round about the wall . 
Its roof was all done with gold and blue from over sea , and its pavement wrought delicately in Alexandrine work . 
Long he abode in that chamber looking at the arras , and wondering whether the sitter in the ivory throne would be any other than the thrall in the greenwood cot . 
So he went back to the castle and gat him a bow and arrows , and entered the thicket of the wood nigh where he and Roger first came out of it . 
He had prayed a young man of the folk to go with him , but he was not over willing to go , though he would not say wherefore . 
So Ralph went himself by himself and wandered some way into the wood , and saw nought worse than himself . 
She looked at him and smiled , as though she had a guess of his thought , and at last she said to him Thy tongue is tied to day . 
Hast thou , after all , seen something strange in the wood ? He shook his head for naysay . 
Well , she said , if I cannot , yet the book may , and this evening , when the sun is down , thou shalt have it . 
I thank thee , mother , said he but this is now the last day that Roger bade me wait . 
Dost thou think that he will come back to night ? and he reddened therewith . 
Nay , she said , I know not , and thou carest not whether he will come or not . 
Yet I know that thou wilt abide here till some one else come , whether that be early or late . 
And now I will give thee a rede , lest thou vex thyself sick and fret thy very heart . 
To morrow go see if thou canst meet thy fate instead of abiding it . 
Do on thy war gear and take thy sword and try the adventure of the wildwood but go not over deep into it . 
There , there ! said she , sit down , king's son eat thy meat and drink thy wine for to morrow is a new day . 
She will come soon or late , if she be yet in the world . 
And now I will say no more to thee concerning this matter . 
Therewith she went her ways from the hall , and when she came back with hand basin and towel , she said no word to him , but only smiled kindly . 
Yet he abode with them long , and ate and drank amidst the hay with them till the moon shone brightly . 
As for Ralph , what he had read was sweet poison to him for if before he was somewhat tormented by love , now was his heart sick and sore with it . 
And he arose and did on his hauberk and basnet , and girt his sword to his side , and went forth , a foot as before . 
A little way across the river , but nigher to the wood , was a house or cot of that country folk , and an old woman sat spinning in the door . 
Well , said she , here comes thy morning's bait borne by shapely hands enough eat and drink first and then will I tell thee my meaning . 
Well , as for me , I have had more lovers than one or two . 
And why have I had just so many and no more ? Nay , thou needest not make any long answer to me . 
Ralph called to mind the guise in which he had seen her and flushed bright red , as he answered Yea , I deem that I have surely it was she . 
The carline laughed Well , said she however thou hast seen her , thou hast scarce seen her as I have . 
A happy man shalt thou be for surely I deem thou hast not come hither to abide her without some token or warrant of her . 
Ask the carles else ! Ralph held his peace , and rose to be gone and turning saw the damsel wading the shallow ford , and looking over her shoulder at him . 
He gave the dame good day , and departed light foot but heavy hearted . 
Yet as he went , he kept saying to himself Did she not send that Roger to turn my ways hither ? yet she cometh not . 
Surely she hath changed in these last days , or it may be in these last hours yea , or this very hour . 
When he met Ralph he blessed him , and Ralph gave him the sele of the day , and asked him whither he would . 
Anthony yonder in the wood , and to day I go to the church of the good folk there . 
So Ralph turned , and went along with him , walking by his bridle rein . 
And as they went the priest said to him Art thou one of my lady's lords ? Ralph reddened as he sighed , and said I am no captain of hers . 
Then smiled the priest and said Then will I not ask thee of thine errand for belike thou wouldest not tell me thereof . 
Ralph said nought , but waxed shamefaced as he deemed that the priest eyed him curiously . 
At last he said I will ask thee a question in turn , father . 
Yea , said the priest . 
Know this , that whatever else she may be , she is a right holy woman . 
yet is she as chaste as Agnes , as wise as Katherine , and as humble and meek as Dorothy . 
For though I cannot say to my knowledge that she weareth a hair yet once and again have I seen her wending this woodland toward the chapel of her friend St . 
Yea , as fair as the woodwives of the ancient heathen . 
Therewith the priest stayed his words , and seemed as if he were fallen into a dream and he sighed heavily . 
Moreover it irked him to hear a grown man weeping for grief , even though it were but a priest . 
Therewith he turned away suddenly , and rode smartly towards his church and Ralph deemed that he was weeping once more . 
As for Ralph , he went quietly home toward the castle , for the sun was setting now , and as he went he pondered all these things in his heart . 
Lastly , he might not learn from the book where in the world was that lone place , or aught of the road to the Well at the World's End . 
He awoke and arose betimes in the morning , and when he had breakfasted he bade the carline bring him his weapons . 
Wilt thou again to the wood ? said she . 
Didst thou not bid me fare thither yesterday ? said he . 
Yea , she said but to day I fear lest thou depart and come not back . 
He laughed and said Seest thou not , mother , that I go afoot , and I in hauberk and helm ? I cannot run far or fast from thee . 
The carline laughed Well , she said , I shall be here if thou goest for I promise thee not to stir out of the house whiles thou art away . 
Said Ralph Nay , I will abide here . 
Yea , she said , I see thou trustest me not . 
Well , no matter and to day it will be handy if thou abidest . 
For I have an errand to my brother in the flesh , who is one of the brethren of the Thorn over yonder . 
If thou wilt give me leave , it will be to my pleasure and gain . 
Ralph was glad when he heard this , deeming that if she left him alone there , he would be the less tempted to stray into the wood again . 
Besides , he deemed that the Lady might come that day when he was alone in the Castle , and that himseemed would make the meeting sweeter yet . 
So he yea said the carline's asking joyously , and in an hour's time she went her ways and left him alone there . 
But in sooth the hours of that day were worse to wear than any day there had yet been . 
He went not without the house at all that day , for he deemed that the folk abroad would note of him that he was so changed and restless . 
Whiles he wandered from chamber to chamber , not knowing what to do . 
As for her , she was so joyous of him that she fairly threw her arms about him and kissed and clipped him , as though she had been his very mother . 
Whereof he had some shame , but not much , for he deemed that her goodwill to him was abundant , which indeed it was . 
Yet I will do thy bidding herein . 
She thanked him , and he went to his bed and slept for now that he had made up his mind to go , he was somewhat more at rest . 
So go , and all luck go with thee . 
As for the woman , he could see but little of her , because of the fighting men before her and the shadow of the oak boughs fell on her withal . 
Then the Knight of the Sun rose up slowly and stood on his feet and faced the Lady and seemed not to see Ralph , for his back was towards him . 
He came slowly toward the Lady , scowling , and his face white as chalk then he spake to her coldly and sternly , stretching out his bloody sword before her . 
I have done thy bidding , and slain my very earthly friend of friends for thy sake . 
Be content ! thou hast slain him who stood in thy way , as thou deemedst . 
Thinkest thou that I rejoice at his slaying ? O no ! I grieve at it , for all that I had such good cause to hate him . 
He said My own heart ! my own heart ! Half of my heart biddeth me slay thee , who hast made me slay him . 
What wilt thou give me ? She knit her brow and spake angrily Leave to depart , she said . 
He frowned Wilt thou not go with me ? said he . 
Not uncompelled , she said if thou biddest me go with threats of hewing and mangling the body which thou sayest thou lovest , needs must I go then . 
Yet scarce wilt thou do this . 
Shall I have slain my brother in arms for nought ? Thou hast the mind , said she , hast thou the might ? So I deem , said he , smiling grimly . 
She looked at him proudly and said Yea , but I misdoubt me thereof . 
He turned , and saw Ralph drawing near , sword in hand , smiling , but somewhat pale . 
yet longing for her melted the heart within him , and he felt the sweetness of life in his inmost soul as he had never felt it before . 
Then do thou come with me , and make some semblance of loving me , and suffer me to love thee . 
and he laughed in the extremity of his wrath . 
How is that ? said he . 
Why wouldst thou know ? she said thou who , if thou hadst me in thine hands again , wouldst keep me away from all men . 
Yea , I know what thou wouldst say , thou wouldst keep me from sinning again . 
And she smiled , but bitterly . 
Thou art merciful , my Queen , though not to me , and a churl were I if I were less merciful than thou . 
Therefore will I give his life to him , yet not to thee will I give him if I may help it Lo you , Sweet ! he is just opening his eyes . 
Therewith he rose up from Ralph , who raised himself a little , and sat up dazed and feeble . 
Dost thou love thy life then ? said the Knight . 
Ralph found speech and said faintly , Yea . 
Said the Knight Where dost thou come from , where is thine home ? Said Ralph , Upmeads . 
Well then , quoth the big knight , go back to Upmeads , and live . 
Ralph shook his head and knit his brows and said , I will not . 
Yea , said the Knight , thou wilt not live ? Then must I shape me to thy humour . 
Stand on thy feet and fight it out for now I am cool I will not slay a swordless man . 
But the Knight stood a while leaning on his sword , and looking down on him not unkindly . 
Then he turned about to the Lady , but lo ! she had left his side . 
And if thou thinkest to ride after me , and overtake me , cast the thought out of thy mind . 
thou mayst cast it , and peradventure mayst hit Silverfax and not me , and peradventure not and I deem that it is my body alive that thou wouldest have back with thee . 
So now , wilt thou hearken ? Yea , quoth the knight , though for wrath he could scarce bring the word from his mouth . 
So she spake , and Ralph yet lay on the grass and heard nought . 
But the Knight's face was dark and swollen with anger as he answered My sworn friend ! yea , I understand thy gibe . 
I need not thy words to bring to my mind how I have slain one sworn friend for thy sake . 
Nay , she said , not for my sake , for thine own folly's sake . 
And now I deem that I will verily slay him , ere he wake again belike it were his better luck . 
She said I wot not why thou hagglest over the price of that thou wouldest have . 
If thou have him along with thee , shall he not be in thy power as I shall be ? and thou mayst slay him or me when thou wilt . 
Yea , he said , grimly , when thou art weary of him . 
O art thou not shameless amongst women ! Yet must I needs pay thy price , though my honour and the welfare of my life go with it . 
Yet how if he have no will to fare with us ? She laughed and said Then shalt thou have him with thee as thy captive and thrall . 
And he laughed , not altogether in bitterness , but as if some joy were rising in his heart . 
She answered nought , but rode her horse close to him and lighted down nimbly , while his greedy eyes devoured her beauty . 
Then he took her hand and drew her to him , and kissed her cheek , and she suffered it , but kissed him not again . 
Then he took off his helm , and went down to the lake to fetch up water therein . 
But she looked on him kindly and said to him How fares it with thee ? I am sorry of thy hurt which thou hast had for me . 
He said Forsooth , Lady , a chance knock or two is no great matter for a lad of Upmeads . 
But oh ! I have seen thee before . 
Yea , she said , twice before , fair knight . 
How is that ? he said once I saw thee , the fairest thing in the world , and evil men would have led thee to slaughter but not twice . 
I had come into the Burg with my captain of war at the peril of our lives to deliver four faithful friends of mine who were else doomed to an evil death . 
He said nought , but gazed at her face , wondering at her valiancy and goodness . 
But my will is that thou shalt not have thine armour and weapons and there is a cause for this , which mayhappen I will tell thee hereafter . 
The knight scowled on him and said Hold thy peace , fool ! Thou wert best not stir my wrath again . 
Nay , said Ralph , thou hast my sword , and mayst slay me if thou wilt therefore be not word valiant with me . 
Said the Knight of the Sun Well , well , thou hast the right of it there . 
Only beware lest thou try me overmuch . 
Ralph nodded cheerfully , and set off on his task , and was the readier therein because the Lady looked on him kindly and compassionately as he went by her . 
He found the horses speedily , a black horse that was of the Black Knight , and a bay of the Knight of the Sun , and he came back with them lightly . 
Yea , said the Lady , and belike he shall live a long while yet . 
Sooth to say , it might else have gone hard with thee on the way to my house , or still more in my house . 
But now be of good heart , for unless of thine own folly thou run on the sword's point , thou mayst yet live and do well . 
To morrow is a new day , and fair is the woodland hall of summer tide neither shall water fail us . 
But as to victual , I wot not save that we have none . 
Then she gave the wounded man to drink of the wine , so that he stirred somewhat , and the colour came into his face a little . 
And she looked on them both full kindly as she spake the words , but nowise wantonly even as the lady of a fair house might do by honoured guests . 
So the hearts of both were cheered , and nothing loth they sat down by her on the grass and fell to meat . 
Yea , said the Lady , that might happen forsooth , and perchance it will and if it were before nightfall it were better . 
As for the Knight of the Sun , he was looking down on the grass as one pondering matters , and noted this not . 
But he said presently What hast thou to say of Walter now ? Shall he live ? Yea , she said , maybe as long as either of you twain . 
The knight looked hard at Ralph , but said nothing , and Ralph heeded not his looks , for his eyes were busy devouring the Lady . 
, and tell them how he did . 
And still the Knight of the Sun took little heed , and once again gloom settled down on him . 
, and she said Sir Knight , Sir Knight , his wish is coming about , I believe verily . 
Nay , look ! something cometh , she cried and he looked and saw a little boat making down the water toward the end anigh them . 
Then the Knight of the Sun seemed to awake at her word , and he leapt to his feet , and stood looking at the new comer . 
It is well , said the Friar my hermitage is no great way hence , in the thicket at the end of this water . 
The knight yeasaid all this , and thereafter the Friar and the Lady together tended the wounded knight , and gave him water to drink , and wine . 
But if thou wilt do after my rede , get thee away to morrow , or better , to night , and desire our fellowship no more . 
Ralph heard him , and the heart within him was divided . 
That were better for thee and for me , and for him who lieth yonder . 
Yet about Ralph's heart there hung a certain fear of what should be . 
But Ralph said never a word . 
Then said the knight , and sighed withal I now see this of thee , that thou mayst not depart well , so let it be ! and he sighed heavily again . 
May the saints keep her from all harm for meek and holy indeed she is , as oft we have heard it . 
So he spake but the Knight of the Sun did but put in a word here and there , and that most often a sour and snappish word . 
Thus they wore away some two hours , the Friar or the Lady turning away at whiles to heed the wounded man , who was now talking wildly in his fever . 
But this time at least it is not so ill marshalled of thee I myself would have shown folk to chamber here in likewise . 
So he stood up and was ready to go with her , his heart beating hard for joy and wonder . 
Nay , she whispered , take thy sword and war gear lest ill befall do on thine hauberk I will be thy squire . 
And she held his war coat out for him to do on . 
Now , she said , still softly , hide thy curly hair with the helm , gird thy sword to thee , and come without a word . 
She led him along swiftly , fumbling nought with the paths betwixt the pine tree boles , where it was as dark as dark might be . 
There she let fall his hand and turned about to him and faced him flushed and eager , with her eyes exceeding bright and her lips half open and quivering . 
He stood beholding her , trembling , what for eagerness , what for fear of her words when he had told her of his desire . 
For he had now made up his mind to do no less . 
Then at last she spake This is the first word , that now I have brought thee away from death and so sweet it is to me that I can scarce bear it . 
Oh , sweet to me , he said , for I have waited for thee many days . 
And he fell to kissing and clipping her , as one who might not be satisfied . 
At last she drew herself from him a little , and , turning on him a face smiling with love , she said Forbear it a little , till we talk together . 
I will ask it now , then , said he , since thou wilt have it so . 
Said Ralph How could I depart when thou wert with him ? Didst thou not see me there ? I was deeming that thou wouldst have me abide . 
And she smiled , but her face reddened so deeply that her grey eyes looked strange and light therein . 
This is a desert place , but thou art loud , and maybe over loud . 
It was my ill luck that I slew him not . 
She stroked his face again and said Long were the tale if I told thee all . 
, each time I said him nay , I said him nay . 
And again her face burned with blushes . 
And she looked at him sweetly , and as frankly as if he had been naught but her dearest brother . 
It was through him that the Knight of the Sun drave me from him . 
O look at me , and see if I love thee or not ! and I may not help it . 
Say once for all , shall that be for my ruin or my bliss ? If thou hast been evil , then be good this one time and tell me . 
And there between them in the wilderness was all the joy of love that might be . 
Yea , said Ralph , and it may be that my master will gather folk and pursue us . 
When he found us gone he doubtless cast himself on Silverfax , my horse , in trust of the beast following after my feet . 
Well , said Ralph , and if he come alone , there is yet a sword betwixt him and thee . 
She was standing up by him now with her hand on his shoulder , Hear now the darling , the champion ! how he trusteth well in his heart and his right hand . 
But nay , I have cared for thee well . 
Hearken , if thou wilt not take it amiss that I tell thee all I do , good or evil . 
Many a toil hath gone to that , whereof I may tell thee presently but now we were best on our way . 
Said Ralph It is well yet will I tell thee the truth , that a little sojourn in that fair house had liked me better . 
Therewith she hurried him on , and her feet seemed never tired , though now , to say sooth , he began to go somewhat heavily . 
My lack ? said he I lack nought now , that I may not have when I will . 
And he put his arms about her shoulders and strained her to his bosom . 
But she strove with him , and freed herself and laughed outright , and said Thou art a bold man , and rash , my knight , even unto me . 
Yet must I see to it that thou die not of hunger . 
He said merrily Yea , by St . 
There she stayed him and said Do off thy war gear , knight . 
There is naught to fear here , less than there was amidst the hazels . 
, and then went hither and thither gathering strawberries about the bank , while he watched her , blessing her , till he well nigh wept at the thought of his happiness . 
So at last she sat down quietly beside him , and fell to speaking to him , as a tale is told in the ingle nook on an even of Yule tide . 
Of such matters I will not tell thee at large , for thou knowest how it will be . 
Every day early I was put forth from the house and garth , and forbidden to go back thither till dusk . 
But when the winter came and the snow was on the ground , then that watching and snaring of wild things was my business . 
The woman stayed and leaned against this stonework and said to me 'Go about now and gather dry sticks for a fire . 
And when I had brought her seven bundles , she said 'It is enough stand over against me and hearken . 
So I stood there quaking for my fear , which had somewhat abated while I went to and fro after the wood , now came back upon me tenfold . 
But thou art yet but a child , therefore I will keep thee to see what shall befall betwixt us . 
Hold thy white goat now , which thou lovest more than aught else , that I may redden thee and me and this altar with the blood thereof . 
And therewith she strode away home , not heeding me . 
So wore the autumn , and winter came , and I fared as I was wont , setting springes for fowl and small deer . 
And then she fetched a sigh , and began with her story again . 
Then she turned to me and said 'Do thou with the rest what thou wilt , and therewith she went back hastily to the house . 
Wore the winter thence with naught that I need tell of , only I thought much of the words that my mistress had spoken . 
Spring came and went , and summer also , well nigh tidingless . 
After this the autumn and winter that followed it passed away tidingless . 
On a day of May tide I fared abroad with my goats , and went far with them , further from the house than I had been as yet . 
And that day , my friend , belike was the spring tide of the life and the love that thou holdest in thy kind arms . 
But I looked again and saw that it was not she but a woman smaller and older . 
So I stood where I was and abode her coming , smiling and unafraid , and half clad . 
She drew near and I saw that it was an old woman grey haired , uncomely of raiment , but with shining bright eyes in her wrinkled face . 
'Damsel , she said , 'now I see that thy soul goes with thy body , and that thou art kind and proud at once . 
Now I see that thou knowest no more of the world and its ways than one of the hinds that run in these woods . 
Sit down then , fair child , on this flowery grass , and I will sit beside thee and tell thee of many things worth thine heeding . 
And I made up my mind to this , that if she fell upon me with deadly intent I would do my best to slay her before she should slay me . 
So presently I saw that it was a weaponed man riding a white horse , and anon he had come up to me and drawn rein before me . 
And this one was even fairer than the dead woman that I had buried , whose face was worn with toil and trouble , as now I called to mind . 
Ralph spake and said Belike it was a woman and his voice sounded loud in the quiet place . 
She smiled on him and kissed his cheek , and said Nay , nay , dear Champion , it is not so . 
God rest his soul ! many a year he has been dead . 
Said Ralph Many a year ! what meanest thou ? Ah ! she said , fear not ! as I am now , so shall I be for thee many a year . 
She took his hand in hers and spake , telling her tale as before . 
Friend , well beloved for ever ! This fair young knight looked on me , and as he looked , his face flushed as red as mine did even now . 
I said , 'Even if thou hast to turn back again , and fail to find the thing thou seekest , yet I beseech thee ride not into that trap . 
So I stayed and abided him and when he came up to me , he leapt from his horse and stood before me and said 'I must needs see thee once again . 
I stood and trembled before him , and longed to touch him . 
Then I looked at him and said , 'I will it freely . 
And no less is it like to the one that thou wearest , Ralph . 
I took it in my hand and wept that I might not help him . 
I said 'Thou art young , and I am young mayhappen we shall meet again but thou shalt know that I am but a thrall , a goatherd . 
For I knew by what the old woman told me of somewhat of the mightiness of the kings of the world . 
, and said 'Dear child , thou needest not to tell me thy tale , for I have seen him . 
But if thou must needs wear this necklace , I must give thee a gift to go with it . 
My goats had all gone off quietly to their house , and there was nothing betwixt me and her . 
'Now at last the time has come when thou art of no more use to me for I can see thee what thou hast got for thyself . 
She had but twice or thrice spoken to me so many words together as this but l answered never a word , but stood watching her warily . 
So I loosed her fingers from the cloth , shuddering with horror the while , and drew myself away from her and stood a little aloof , wondering what should happen next . 
And indeed I scarce believed but she would presently rise up from the ground and clutch me in her hands , and begin the tormenting of me . 
Then I stood and considered what I should do , and indeed I had been pondering this all the way from the Dale thereto , in case I should escape my mistress . 
So I soon made up my mind that I would not dwell in that house even for one night lest my mistress should come to me though dead , and torment me . 
These I put into my scrip , and as to the necklace , l will tell thee how I bestowed it later on . 
Then I stepped out into the twilight which was fair and golden , and full fain I was of it . 
She sighed and said Well , hearken yet shall I not tell thee every deed that I have been partaker in . 
But all that day she came not nor did I marvel thereat . 
And it was easier for me to find a livelihood in the woods than it had been for most folk , so well as I knew them . 
And even therewith he sank down on the grass . 
For now am I a beaten man I have failed of that I sought , and suffered shame and hunger and many ills . 
Yet ever I thought that I might find thee here or hereby . 
Then a thought came into my mind , and I said 'Else maybe thou hadst found what thou soughtest , and overcome the evil things . 
'Maybe , he said 'it is now but a little matter . 
And we talked together long till the day was gone . 
Then we kissed and embraced each other in the Dale of Lore , and the darkness of summer seemed but short for our delight . 
But now when thine own mouth telleth me of one of them it irks me little . 
Or dost thou deem that I was another woman in those days ? Nay , I was not I can see myself still myself all along the way I have gone . 
She was silent a little , and then she said Fear not , I will give thee much cause to love me . 
Moreover , my life in the wilderness is a stranger thing to tell thee of than my dealings with the folk , and with Kings and Barons and Knights . 
But thereafter thou shalt hear of me what tales thou wilt of these matters , as the days and the years pass over our heads . 
Ralph said , Even so much I deemed by reading in the book yet it was not told clearly that thou hadst been there . 
And how good it is that they look on thee now . 
Hearken now , she said , till I tell thee in few word what befell me before I came to drink the Water of the Well . 
These folk seemed to me happy and of good wealth , though to my lord they seemed poor and lacking of the goods of the world . 
It was springtime when we came to that folk for we had worn through the autumn and winter in getting clear of the wilderness . 
Then they left their games and sports and ran to us , and we walked on quietly , though we knew not whether the meeting was to be for death or life . 
But that kind folk gathered round us , and asked us no story till they had fed us , and bathed us , and clad us after their fashion . 
, their kindness abated nothing , and they bade us abide there , and were our loving friends and brethren . 
There in sooth had I been content to abide till eld came upon me , but my lord would not have it so , but longed for greater things for me . 
, and driving one for a sumpter beast before us and they had given us bows and arrows for our defence , and that we might get us venison . 
It is not to be said that we did not encounter perils but thereof I will tell thee naught as now . 
We came to other peoples , richer and mightier than these , and I saw castles , and abbies , and churches , and walled towns , and wondered at them exceedingly . 
But on the morrow came two evil men into the hall whom he had suborned , and bore false witness that I was a thrall and a runaway . 
So we departed , and divers of the said knights and squires went with us to see us safe on the way . 
But this was nigh to the kingdom of my lord's father , and that felon baron I came across again , and he was ever after one of my worst foes . 
There we stood , and I knew that the eyes of all those lords and warriors were set upon me wondering . 
But the love of my lord and the late learned knowledge of my beauty sustained me . 
Then he said 'It is good , son come home now to thy mother and thy kindred . 
Yet many eyes I saw that desired my beauty . 
And I knew now that the king was minded to slay me , else had he bidden thrust me from my lord's side . 
'For , said he , 'this night we must flee the town , or we shall be taken and cast into prison to morrow for thus hath my father determined . 
I kissed him and clung to him , and he no less was good to me . 
So we , my lord and I , were led back to the city , and he was held in ward and I was cast into prison with chains and hunger and stripes . 
Nay , my friend , thou hast no need to look so troubled for thou seest that I was not burned . 
This is the selfsame body that was tied to the stake in the market place of the king's city many a year ago . 
under a golden canopy , and he stood between the two companies and faced the king , while his folk sang loud and sweet about him . 
True it is that I rejoiced to see him , for I had deemed him dead . 
Since truly it is myself that I would have thee to love , and none other . 
There was I duly wedded to my lord by a Bishop of Holy Church , and made his Lady and Queen for even so he would have it . 
We waged war against each other , my lord and the king , and whiles one , and whiles the other overcame . 
As for me , I had many tribulations . 
Thrice I fled from the stricken field with my lord to hide in some stronghold of the mountains . 
Forsooth of all the years that I abode about the Land of Tower those were the happiest . 
Many a wild deed did our folk in their company , and many that had been better undone . 
So we came forth from the forest , we , and the Champions of the Dry Tree and made the tale a short one . 
Also my counsellors and lords warned me often that I must be wary and of great forbearance if trouble were to be kept back . 
She spake , and again I seemed to have heard her voice before 'Hail , Queen , she said , 'it does my heart good to see thee thus in thy glorious estate . 
Then she spake again 'Even so I guessed it would be that thou wouldst grow great amongst women . 
'And hast thou drunken ? said I. 'Yea , she said 'but I am minded for another draught . 
'Great is thy Kingship , Lady , said the woman , and smiled withal . 
But now I must depart . 
'Thou shalt have no less , said the woman . 
My first born had been slain by those wretches , and a second son that I bore had died of a pestilence that war and famine had brought upon the land . 
Ralph reddened and said My soul has been vexed by some inkling of them but now it is at rest from them for ever . 
May it be so ! she said and now my tale is wearing thin for the present time . 
Back again went my feet over the ways they had trodden before , though the Teacher shortened the road much for us by her wisdom . 
But now a long while , years long , we abode in that House of the Sorceress ere we durst seek further to the Well at the World's End . 
She laughed and said What ! hast thou never dreamed of me since we met at the want way of the Wood Perilous ? Never , said he . 
She stroked his cheek fondly , and said Young art thou , sweet friend , and sleepest well a nights . 
It was enough that thou thoughtest of me in thy waking hours . 
Then she went on with her tale . 
But in those past days it was needs must we begin our quest before the burden of years was over heavy upon us . 
Shortly to say it , we found the Well , and drank of its waters after abundant toil and peril , as thou mayst well deem . 
So now I bid thee farewell . 
Now we have set ourselves to seek that woman , and if thou be she , we would ask a question of thy wisdom . 
I answered that I was even such as they had heard of , and bade them ask . 
But now he fell on his knees before me not like a vassal but like a lover , and kissed my feet , and was beside himself for joy . 
And his sons , who were men of some forty summers , tall and warrior like , kissed my hands and made obeisance before me . 
'Nay , quoth I , 'it is not so as I am now , so shall I be for many and many a day . 
'Well , said Geoffrey , 'wherever thou mayst be , thou shalt be Queen of men . 
'I list not to be Queen again , said I. He laughed and said 'I wot not how thou mayst help it . 
I said 'Tell me of the Dry Tree , how the champions have sped , and have they grown greater or less . 
Naught thriveth there since thou stolest thyself away from them . 
'Nay , I said , 'I fled from their malice , lest I should have been brought out to be burned once more and there would have been none to rescue then . 
'Was it so ? said old Geoffrey 'well it is all one now their day is done . 
'Well , I said , 'come into my house , and eat and drink therein and sleep here to night , and to morrow I shall tell thee what I will do . 
See thou ! I were fain to be of the brotherhood of the Dry Tree yet I deem it will scarce be that I shall go and dwell there straightway . 
So that day we left the House of the Sorceress , which I shall not see again , till I come there hand in hand with thee , beloved . 
Only I knew that we must needs pass by the place whereto I shall now lead thee , and I made provision there . 
Lo ! now the marvel slain and in such wise shall perish other marvels which have been told of me yet not all . 
Come now , let us to the way . 
So they joined hands and left the pleasant place , and were again going speedily amidst the close pine woods awhile , where it was smooth underfoot and silent of noises withal . 
So of this came that shaming and casting forth of me . 
More by token the last time I did thus was the very night of the day we parted , after thou hadst escaped from the Burg . 
In what wise was that ? said Ralph . 
Thou knowest how I sped therein . 
But she said 'What thanks wilt thou have for this ? Wherefore hast thou done it ? And I said , 'It is because of the gladness I have gotten . 
Said she , 'And would that I might get gladness ! So I asked her what was amiss now that she was free . 
She said 'I have lost one thing that I loved , and found another and lost it also . 
So I said 'Mightest thou not seek for the lost ? She said , 'It is in this wood , but when I shall find it I shall not have it . 
Dost thou know her ? Yea , said Ralph , and fair and lovely she is in sooth . 
Yet hast thou naught to do to fear her . 
And true it is that I saw her and spake with her after thou hadst ridden away . 
Then he smiled and said As for that which thou sayest , that she had been meeter for me than thou , I know not this word . 
For look you , beloved , she came , and passed , and is gone , but thou art there and shalt endure . 
And now few even are the hunters or way farers that wend through it . 
have scarce got hold of the very sooth of the matter . 
So now hasten yet a little more and we will keep the said little stream in sight as well as we may for the bushes . 
And Ralph saw in the face of the high cliff the mouth of a cave , however deep it might be . 
Ah , beloved , thou must be patient a little . 
For belike our servants have not yet heard of the wedding of us . 
So we twain must feed each the other . 
Then she ran into the cave and brought forth a bow and a quiver of arrows , and said Art thou somewhat of an archer ? Quoth he I shoot not ill . 
And I , she said , shoot well , all woodcraft comes handy to me . 
But this eve I must trust to thy skill for my supper . 
Go swiftly and come back speedily . 
Do off thine hauberk , and beat the bushes down in the valley , and bring me some small deer , as roe or hare or coney . 
So he did off his wargear , but thereafter tarried a little , looking at her , and she said What aileth thee not to go ? the hunt's up . 
And therewith his breast arose and his face was wryed , and he wept loud and long , and as if he should never make an end of it . 
But so weary was he , that at last he lay back and fell asleep , and woke not till the sun was high in the heavens . 
Then he turned about and saw Silverfax cropping the grass nearby , and the Lady lying there like an image that could move no whit , though the world awoke about her . 
But when he had drunk and washed hands and face he came back again , and hardened his heart to do what he must needs do . 
So let his bones be covered up from the wolf and the kite . 
Yet shall they not lie alongside of her . 
I will raise a cairn above him here on this fair little plain which he spoilt of all joy . 
Ralph had taken his raiment from the stream side and done them on before this , and now he did on helm and hauberk , and girt his sword to his side . 
But a little after they were gone , he stopped and said within himself Maybe I had better have gone their way , and this road doubtless leadeth to some place of resort . 
So he sees that though they all bore weapons , they were not all men at arms , nay , not more than a half score , but those proper men enough . 
Of the others , some half dozen seemed by their attire to be merchants , and the rest their lads and withal they had many sumpter horses and mules with them . 
Ill done , little lord ! said Blaise , stroking Ralph's cheek . 
Well , said Blaise , if thou hast no great errand elsewhere , thou mightest ride with us , brother . 
Richard , go fetch a horse hither for Lord Ralph's riding , and we will tarry no longer . 
So Richard trotted on , and while they abode him , Ralph asked after his brethren , and Blaise told him that he had seen or heard naught of them . 
Then Ralph asked of whither away , and Blaise told him to Whitwall , where was much recourse of merchants from many lands , and a noble market . 
Now Ralph mounts , and they all ride away together . 
Ralph rode with his brother to the hostel of the chapmen , and there they were well lodged . 
CHAPTER Richard Talketh With Ralph Concerning the Well at the World's End . 
Even so , quoth Ralph . 
Nay , if thou doubtest it , said Richard , let us go to the door and try if they have turned the key and shot the bolt on us . 
Said Richard Wouldst thou have been better yesterday , lord , or the day before ? Nay , said Ralph . 
Wilt thou be better to morrow ? said Richard . 
Said Richard Yea , but thou wilt be , or thou mayst call me a fool else . 
Thou art kind , Richard , said Ralph and I will come with thee , and do what thou biddest me but I must needs tell thee that my heart is sick . 
Yea , quoth Richard , and thou needest not tell me so much , dear youngling he who runs might read that in thee . 
brought back to Ralph's mind the days of his childhood when he was hanging about the building of the water reeve's new house at Upmeads . 
Then they went into the Great Church and heard a Mass at the altar of St . 
, since the good town pleasureth thee little , go we further afield . 
Yea , yea , said Ralph , what then ? I came not hither to hear thee missay my mother's sons . 
So be it ! said Ralph . 
Said Richard I am old now , but I have been young , and many things have I seen and suffered , ere I came to Upmeads . 
Old am I , and I cannot feel certain hopes and griefs as a young man can yet have I bought the knowledge of them dear enough , and have not forgotten . 
Whereby I wot well that my drearihead is concerning a woman . 
Is it not so ? Yea , quoth Ralph . 
Said Richard Now shalt thou tell me thereof , and so lighten thine heart a little . 
I will not tell thee , said Ralph or , rather , to speak more truly , I cannot . 
But mayhappen thou mayst tell me of one thing that thou desirest more than another . 
Said Ralph I desire to die . 
And the tears started in his eyes therewith . 
But Richard spake , smiling on him kindly That way is open for thee on any day of the week . 
Why hast thou not taken it already ? But Ralph answered naught . 
Quoth Richard Maybe I may help thee to a hope , though thou mayest think my words wild . 
And what has that to do with me ? sayest thou why this , that I was born and bred at Swevenham . 
Forsooth I lied not , for thy brother is happy here , whereas he is piling up the coins one upon the other . 
Forsooth thou shouldest go into his booth , fair lord it is a goodly sight . 
God wot I have had my bellyful of it since those days ! Howbeit I mind me the setting forth of these three . 
Christopher ! I can see it all as if it were yesterday . 
But as to me , I deemed it naught , and was sorry that my white bosomed , sweet breathed friend should walk away from me thus into the clouds . 
Said Ralph Now then it behoveth me to go to Swevenham straightway wilt thou come with me ? it seemeth to be but some four miles hence . 
So keep thou thy soul in patience . 
And what shall I do now ? said Ralph . 
Wear away the hours , said Richard . 
And amidst of it all stood Blaise clad in fine black cloth welted with needle work , and a gold chain about his neck . 
He was talking with three honourable men of the Port , and they were doing him honour with kind words and the bidding of help . 
Now Ralph looks about him , and presently he sees a man come forward to meet him from the innermost of the booth , and lo ! there was come Clement Chapman . 
His heart rose at the sight of him , and he thought of his kind gossip till he could scarce withhold his tears . 
Nevertheless , if thou dwellest here some eight days I shall see thee again belike , since thereafter I get me eastward on a hard and long journey not without peril . 
How sayest thou ? I wot not , quoth Ralph looking at Richard . 
All this Ralph heard gladly , though he was somewhat shamefaced withal , and sat silent and thinking of many matters . 
But Richard took up the word and said Which way camest thou from Wulstead , master Clement ? The nighest way I came , said Clement , through the Woods Perilous . 
And had he any tidings to tell thee of the champions ? said Richard . 
And that will make them bitter and fierce , till their grief has been slaked by the blood of men . 
And that the more as their old Queen abideth still , and she herself is ever of that mind . 
And must they who find the Well at the World's End come by the Dry Tree ? Yea , surely , said Clement . 
Yea , said Clement , so it is that their first error hath ended their quest . 
And her face became sad and distressful , and she turned and departed as she had come . 
And the word came from her I am a sending of the woman whom thou hast loved , and I should not have been here save she had sent me . 
Then the words ended , while he looked at her and wondered if she also had died on the way to the Well at the World's End . 
And it came into his mind that he had never known her name upon the earth . 
And he was sitting in the chamber of the hostel when Richard came in to him . 
Is there aught concerning the Well at the World's End therein ? said Richard . 
I have not found aught thereof as yet , said Ralph but the book tells concerning the Dry Tree , and of kings sitting in their chairs in the mountains nearby . 
Well then , said Richard , maybe thou wilt think me the better tale teller . 
Tell on then , quoth Richard . 
So the talk went on . 
But there was a carline sitting in the ingle , and she knew me and I her . 
Mindest thou not ? There are more than I alive that remember it . 
'Yea , said I , 'I remember it well . 
For indeed , foster son , these were the very three of whom I told thee , though I told thee not their names . 
'Well , said I 'how sped they ? Came they back , or any of them ? 'Nay , she said , 'that were scarce to be looked for . 
And on the morrow he departed and we saw him not again . 
Then she was silent , but the young man at whom she had pointed Hushed red and stared at her wide eyed , but said no word . 
Thus for that time dropped the talk of the Well at the World's End , Lord Ralph , and of the way thither . 
'Yea , quoth I , 'if thy tale be knife worthy . 
Then when he put out his hand to her , he saw a great anlace gleaming in her hand , wherefore he forbore her and this was but five days ago . 
But this word further would I say to thee , that I have seen on thy neck also a pair of beads exceeding goodly . 
Tell me now whence came they . 
Well , said Richard , that may well come to pass , that it shall lead thee to the Well at the World's End . 
So I am no nearer to it than erst . 
He spake so cheerfully that Richard looked at him askance , wondering what was toward with him , and if mayhappen anything lay underneath those words of his . 
For indeed he doubted not that the said woman was the damsel of Bourton Abbas , whose image had named herself Dorothea to him in that dream . 
And I deem , moreover , that troublous times may be at hand here in Whitwall . 
So now thou art warned hereof . 
I will hearken it gladly , said Richard . 
Said Ralph Yea ? now tell me all thy thought . 
Or how deemest thou ? I wot not , said Ralph sadly to me she seemed but a woman , though she were fairer and wiser than other women . 
Yea , quoth Richard , and dost thou bear in mind what she was like ? I mean the fashion of her body . 
Yea , verily , said Ralph . 
In what wise did she praise her ? how came the words forth from her ? was it sweetly ? Like honey and roses for sweetness , said Ralph . 
Yea , said Richard , and she might have praised her in such wise that the words had came forth like gall and vinegar . 
Ralph brake in Nay , nay , it is not so , it is not so ! Hearken , youngling ! quoth Richard I deem that it was thus . 
O nay , nay ! said Ralph , all this guess of thine is naught , saying that she was kind indeed . 
Even as heaven is kind to them who have died martyrs , and enter into its bliss after many torments . 
And therewith he fell a weeping at the very thought of her great kindness for indeed to this young man she had seemed great , and exalted far above him . 
Richard looked at him a while and then said Now , I pray thee be not wroth with me for the word I have spoken . 
But something more shall I say , which shall like thee better . 
Forsooth I deem that when thou comest back thou wilt find that we have cut thee out a goodly piece of work for thy sewing . 
For the good town is gathering a gallant host of men and we shall look to thee to do well in the hard hand play , whenso that befalleth . 
But now come and look at my house within , how fair it is , and thou wilt see that thou wilt have somewhat to fight for , whereas I am . 
So Ralph praised all , but was wishful to depart , for his heart was sore , and he blamed himself in a manner that he must needs lie to his brother . 
But Blaise brought them to the upper chamber , and showed them the goodly beds with their cloths , and hangings , and all was as fair as might be . 
But if ye like not the journey , abide here in this town the onset of Walter the Black . 
Therewith he laughed , and Ralph understanding the jape , laughed also and said Well , master Clement , but tell me who be these that we shall meet . 
But as for Richard he forebore words , for he was sad at heart for the sundering . 
Then he gat to horse , and the whole company of them bestirred them , and they rode out a gates . 
And master Clement it was that ordered them , riding up and down along the array . 
Yea , said Ralph , and had not this goodly fellowship been , I had gone alone , or with any carle that I could have lightly hired . 
Clement laughed and said Fair sir , thou wouldst have failed of hiring any one man to go with thee east ward a many miles . 
For with less than a score of men well armed the danger of death or captivity is over great , if ye ride the mountain ways unto Cheaping Knowe . 
Yea , said Clement , looking on him kindly , I deem of all thy brethren thou hast the biggest share of the blood of Red Robert , who first won Upmeads . 
Yea , master Clement , said Ralph , these be no peaceful lands whereto thou art bringing us , or very pleasant to dwell in . 
Yea , it is a goodly land for merchants . 
But I am no merchant , said Ralph . 
So it is , said Clement , yet thou desireth something and whither we are wending thou mayst hear tidings that shall please thee , or tidings that shall please me . 
But when there be foemen in that house together , each man or each fellowship departing , hath grace of an hour before his foeman follow . 
Such are the customs of that house , and no man breaketh them ever . 
Doth that suffice thee as at this time ? Yea master , quoth Ralph . 
So therewith their talk dropped , for the moment but Clement talked much with Ralph that day , and honoured him much , as did all that company . 
For the mountain sides went up steep from the plain . 
There they kept good watch and ward , and naught befell them to tell of . 
As they were departing the next morn Ralph asked of Clement if he yet looked for onset from the waylayers . 
Said Clement It is most like , lord for we be a rich prey , and it is but seldom that such a company rideth this road . 
And albeit that the wild men know not to a day when we shall pass through their country , yet they know the time within a four and twenty hours or so . 
For we may not hide our journey from all men's hearing and when the ear heareth , the tongue waggeth . 
But art thou yet anxious concerning this matter , son ? Yea , said Ralph , for I would fain look on these miscreants . 
For they will be fearful lest their purpose leak out from unwary lips . 
Ralph wondered how it would be , and what might come of it , and rode on , pondering much . 
But Ralph rode slowly , since he had naught to see to , save himself , so that he was presently left alone . 
Now he looks aside , and sees something bright hued lying under a big stone where the last rays of the sun just caught some corner of it . 
So he goes thither , deeming that mayhappen one of the company had dropped something , pouch or clout , or what not , in his haste and hurry . 
He got off his horse to pick it up , and when he had laid hand on it found it to be a hands breadth of fine green cloth embroidered with flowers . 
But his thought stayed not there , but carried him into the days when he was abiding in desire of the love that he won at last , and lost so speedily . 
But as he stood pondering he heard Clement shouting to him from the garth gate of that house . 
What ailed thee ? said Ralph . 
I stayed to look at a flower which called Upmeads to my mind . 
Thou shalt yet look on Mick Hangman's sons , as thou desirest . 
So they went into the House , and men had all that they might need . 
Would he do her any hurt ? said Ralph . 
What like was she ? said Ralph . 
Said the carle She was somewhat tall , if I am to note such matters , grey eyed and brown haired , and great abundance of it . 
Her hands were not like those of a demoiselle who sitteth in a chamber to be looked at , but brown as of one who hath borne the sickle in the sun . 
But when she stretched out her hand so that the wrist of her came forth from her sleeve it was as white as milk . 
Well , my man , said the carline , thou hast a good memory for an old and outworn carle . 
But Ralph noted that she was still staring at him even after she had let the talk drop . 
Waned the even , and folk began to go bedward , so that the hall grew thin of guests . 
So I held my peace . 
Dame , said he , I thank thee forsooth I fear sorely that this damsel is my sister for ever we have worn the samelike pair of beads . 
And as for me I have come hither to find her , and evil will it be if I find her enthralled , and it may be past redemption . 
And therewith he gave her a piece of the gold money of Upmeads . 
Yea , said she , poor youth that will be sooth indeed , for thou art somewhat like unto her , yet far goodlier . 
Ralph reddened but said naught , and let her put scizzors amongst his curly locks , and take what of them she would . 
And therewith he took out that piece of her gown from his pouch , and it seemed dear to him . 
But it made him think sadly of what grief or pain she might even then be bearing , so that he longed to deliver her , and that longing was sweet to him . 
In such thoughts he fell asleep . 
So it befell that they had not ridden two hours ere back came the fore riders with the tidings that the pass next below them was thick with the Strong thieves . 
Of the others , some were but lads , and of the Chapmen were three old men , and more than one blencher besides . 
However , all men were armed , and they had many bows , and some of the chapmen's knaves were fell archers . 
So they took counsel together , and to some it seemed better to abide the onset on their vantage ground . 
But to Clement and the older men at arms this seemed of no avail . 
And this after some talk they yea said all , save a few who held their skins so dear that their wits wandered somewhat . 
Moreover the way was short , and they rode six abreast down the pass and were soon through the hollow way . 
But when Clement saw that folk , and heard the noise of their shouting he lifted up a great axe that he bore and cried , St . 
Agnes for the Mercers ! and set spurs to his horse . 
Albeit the thieves still shot in their weak bows from the hill side , but scarce hurt a man . 
Even so , quoth the captain , who was a man of few words , let us go . 
But do thou , Clement , abide by the stuff with the lads and bowmen . 
Then he cried out aloud St . 
Christopher to aid ! and shook his rein , and all they who were clad in armour and well mounted spurred on with him against the strong thieves . 
Said Ralph to him Well , have I got me a servant and thrall good cheap ? Yea , said Clement , if thou deem a polecat a likely hound . 
Said the Captain Put thy sword through him , knight . 
Quoth another Let him run up hill , and our bowmen shall shoot a match at him . 
Nay , said Ralph , they have done well with their shooting , let them rest . 
As to my thrusting my sword through the man , Captain , I had done that before , had I been so minded . 
At any rate , I will ask him if he will serve me truly . 
Otherwise he seemeth a strong carle and a handy . 
How sayest thou , lad , did I take thee fairly ? Yea , said the man , thou art a strong lad . 
He seemed to fear the swords about him but little , and forsooth he was a warrior like man , and not ill looking . 
He was of middle height , strong and well knit , with black hair like a beast's mane for shagginess , and bright blue eyes . 
Why not ? quoth the carle yet I warn thee that if thou beat me , save in hot blood , I shall put a knife into thee when I may . 
O , said one , thrust him through now at once , lord Ralph . 
Nay , I will not , said Ralph he hath warned me fairly . 
Maybe he will serve me truly . 
Master Clement , wilt thou lend me a horse for my man to ride ? Yea , said Clement yet I misdoubt me of thy new squire . 
But the man said to him , as soon as they were riding Take note that I will not fight against my kindred . 
None biddeth thee so , said Ralph but do thou take heed that if thou fight against us I will slay thee outright . 
Nay , master , quoth the man , leave me my knife , as thou art a good fellow . 
Forsooth down there evil they be , and unkinsome . 
Quoth the carle That is the bargain , then , and I yeasay it . 
Good , said Ralph now tell me thy name . 
Bull Shockhead , said the carle . 
But now the fellowship took to riding so fast down the slopes of the mountains on a far better road , that talking together was not easy . 
They kept good watch , both behind and ahead , nor were they set upon again , though whiles they saw clumps of men on the hill sides . 
Nicholas , his friend , and deemed that luck might the rather come to him thereby . 
He hearkened to them , and knit his brows and looked fiercely from one to the other . 
And are thy deeds so good ? said Ralph . 
Ralph laughed Which shall I make thee , friend Bull , the upper or the under ? Bull reddened , but said naught . 
Yea , women ? said Ralph . 
Master , may I ask thee a question ? Ask on , said Ralph . 
Said Bull The pair of beads about thy neck , whence came they ? They were the gift of a dear friend , said Ralph . 
A woman ? quoth Bull . 
And betwixt the diverse deeds of the day this had of late become somewhat dim to him . 
But , lord , I will do my best to find her for thee as thou art a king's son and no ill master , I deem . 
Do that , quoth Ralph , and I in turn will do what more I may for thee besides making thee free . 
And therewith he rode forward that he might get out of earshot , for Bull's tongue seemed like to be long . 
And presently he heard laughter behind him , as the carle began jesting and talking with the chapman lads . 
And Clement said that , though he dealt not in such wares , he had often seen them sold , and knew the master of that market . 
I will bring thee to him , and thou shalt ask him of what thou wilt , and belike he will tell thee quietly over the wine cup . 
Therewith was Ralph well content , and he grew eager to enter into the town . 
Withal there were many warriors amongst the throng , and most of these bore a token on their sleeves , to wit , a sword reddened with blood . 
But with us chapmen , said Clement , he will not meddle , lest there be an end of chaffer in the town and verily the market is good . 
The third day time hung somewhat heavy on Ralph's hands , not but that the Companions were well at ease , but rather because himseemed that he was not stirring in the quest . 
And some of these were arrayed like those foemen of the mountains . 
There was a half score and three of these chattels to be sold , who stood up one after other on the stone , that folk might cheapen them . 
Of women four of them were young and goodly , and Ralph looked at them closely but they were naught like to the woman of his quest . 
The merchant greeted Ralph courteously , and bade him and Clement come into his house , where they might speak more privily . 
So did they , and he treated them with honour , and set wine and spices before them , and bade Ralph say whatlike the woman was . 
Ralph did so , and wondered at himself how well and closely he could tell of her , like as a picture painted . 
And the man's name was Bull Nosy , or the longnosed man of the kindred of the Bull , for in such wise are named the men of that unhappy folk . 
Now this was the cause why I might not sell her , that she was so proud and stout that men feared her , what she might do if they had her away . 
And when some spake to see her body naked , she denied it utterly , saying that she would do a mischief to whomsoever tried it . 
But he heeded my words little , and led her away , she riding on a horse and he going afoot beside her for the mountain men be no horsemen . 
At least so will he do if he be wise . 
But there is this for thy comfort , that whereas she is so fair a woman , she will be well with my lord . 
For I warrant me that she will not dare to be proud with him , as she was with the folk here . 
Belike thou mayst fall in with him and if thou dost , take heed that thou make not thyself great with him . 
So Ralph thanked the merchant and departed with Clement , of whom presently he asked if he knew aught of this lord of Utterbol . 
Said Clement God forbid that I should ever meet him , save where I were many and he few . 
I have never seen him but he is deemed by all men as the worst of the tyrants who vex these lands , and , maybe , the mightiest . 
It was some fifty miles thence to Whiteness , which lay close underneath the mountains , and was , as it were , the door of the passes whereby men rode to Goldburg . 
The land which they passed through was fair , both of tillage and pasture , with much cattle therein . 
Everywhere they saw men and women working afield , but no houses of worthy yeomen or vavassors , or cots of good husbandmen . 
And as for those hovels and the long and foul houses , they are the stables wherein this kind of cattle is harboured . 
So Ralph refrained his anxious heart , though forsooth his thought was much upon the damsel and of how she was faring . 
Here also was no great castle within the town as at Cheaping Knowe , and the town itself nothing so big , but long and straggling along the top of the ridge . 
Cheaping Knowe was all builded of stone but the houses here were of timber for the most part , done over with pargeting and whitened well . 
Yet was the town more cheerful of aspect than Cheaping Knowe , and the folk who came thronging about the chapmen at the gates not so woe begone , and goodly enough . 
Yet was there naught worse to meet save toil , because they were over strong for the wild men to meddle with them , whereas the kindreds thereabout were but feeble . 
Then Clement went up to Ralph , and would have a true tale out of him , and asked him what was amiss but Ralph stared wild at him and answered not . 
That word heard Ralph , and he ran at Bull with uplifted sword to slay him but Clement tripped him and he fell , and his sword flew out of his hand . 
They all murmured a yeasay to this save Ralph . 
Nay , quoth Ralph , sullenly . 
Well , then , said Bull , when thou dost find her , we will speak of it . 
it must have taken a strong man to do this . 
Yea , quoth the captain , and a big sword to boot this is the stroke of a strong man wielding a good weapon . 
Said Ralph Thou shalt do as thou wilt herein , and I also will do as I will . 
For if she slew him , the taking of her captive should be set against the slaying . 
Said Clement Well , let all this be . 
Well , said Clement , this is my rede . 
So when Bull saw him , he turned to him and said King's son , I have done what needs was for this present . 
But to morrow we shall seek wider ere I ride on my way . 
Yea , said Bull , and I will be one in the search . 
And Ralph said to himself that this was naught but what he had looked for after that vision of the night . 
So he rode with his fellows somewhat shamefaced that they had seen that sudden madness in him but was presently of better cheer than he had been yet . 
He rode beside Clement they went downhill speedily , and the wilderness began to better , and there was grass at whiles , and bushes here and there . 
But this was otherwise from what they had beheld from the mountain's brow above Cheaping Knowe . 
For thence the mountains beyond Whiteness , even those that they had just ridden , were clear to be seen like the wall of the plain country . 
Clement told Ralph that this was Goldburg and that it was built on a gathering of hills , not great , but going up steep from the plain . 
And the plain , said he , was not so wholly flat and even as it looked from up there , but swelled at whiles into downs and low hills . 
Clement said moreover that , this happy lord dead , things had not gone so well there as had been looked for . 
Forsooth it had been that lord's will and meaning that all folks in Goldburg should thrive , both those who wrought and those for whom they wrought . 
But it went not so , but there were many poor folk there , and few wealthy . 
So when they were come anigh the gate , they displayed their banners and rode right up to it and people thronged the walls to see their riding . 
As for these , beneath the dwellings went a fair arched passage like to the ambulatory of an abbey and every house all along this street was a palace for its goodliness . 
, were the houses but low , poorly built of post and pan , and thatched with straw , or reed , or shingle . 
So they went bedward , and Ralph slept dreamlessly , as was mostly his wont . 
Bethink thee , child , there are they that love thee in Upmeads and thereabout , were it but thy gossip , my wife , dame Katherine . 
Said Ralph Master Clement , I thank thee for all that thou hast said , and thy behest , and thy deeds . 
And I pray the pardon both of thee and of thy gossip , if I answer not your love as ye would , and perchance as I should . 
Yea , and of Upmeads also I crave pardon . 
Well , so it must be , and till thou hast her , there is but one woman in the world for thee . 
Trowest thou my word ? Yea , said Clement , but to one of thy years love is not plucked up by the root , and it soon groweth again . 
Then said Ralph , sadly Now tell my gossip of this when thou comest home . 
But he said Fear not but I will look to it I am thy friend , and not thy schoolmaster . 
But one of the merchants said Master Clement , if this young knight is boun for Utterbol , he beareth his life in his hand , as thou knowest full well . 
Said Clement It is well thought of , and I will surely do as thou biddest . 
seemed to freeze the speech of men's tongues , and they commonly went away at once when it was spoken . 
So that meseems thou mayest abide here in a life far better than wandering amongst uncouth folk , perilous and cruel . 
Yea , so thou mayst have it if thou wilt , being so exceeding goodly , and wise , and well spoken , and of high lineage . 
And all this was set amidst of gardens , the like of which they had never seen . 
Yet indeed many had said with Clement that the Queen who sat there was the goodliest part thereof . 
But Ralph spake Nay , Lady , the damsel whom I seek is not my beloved , but my friend . 
The Queen looked on him smiling kindly , yet was her face somewhat troubled . 
But this knight hath no affairs to look to so if he will abide with us for a little , it will be our pleasure . 
So Clement made his obeisance and went his ways . 
But he thought not of her , but of himself and how kind she was to him . 
But after a while he mastered his passion and began , and told her all he had done and suffered . 
Long was the tale in the telling , for it was sweet to him to lay before her both his grief and his hope . 
Maybe thou art seeking for what is not . 
Or maybe thou shalt seek and shalt find , and there may be naught in what thou findest , whereof to give thee such gifts as are meet for thy faithfulness and valiancy . 
But in thine home shouldst thou have all gifts which thou mayest desire . 
Then was she silent awhile , and then spake Yet must I needs say that I would that thine home were in Goldburg . 
Yet , look you ! One home I had , and left it another I looked to have , and I lost it and now I have no home . 
Maybe in days to come I shall go back to mine old home and whiles I wonder with what eyes it will look on me . 
For merry is that land , and dear and I have become sorrowful . 
Fear not , she said I say again that in thine home shall all things look kindly on thee . 
Once more she sat silent , and no word did his heart bid him speak . 
And I will write a letter for thee to give to the lord of Utterbol , which he will heed , if he heedeth aught my good will or enmity . 
I beseech thee come for it in three days wearing . 
Therewith she arose and took his hand and led him to the door , and he departed , blessing her goodness , and wondering at her courtesy and gentle speech . 
For those three days he was still seeking tidings everywhere , till folk began to know of him far and wide , and to talk of him . 
And at the time appointed he went to the Queen's House and was brought to her chamber as before , and she was alone therein . 
She greeted him and smiled on him exceeding kindly , but he might not fail to note of her that she looked sad and her face was worn by sorrow . 
I have some good friends who will go with me awhile . 
But thou , Lady , hast thou heard aught ? Naught of the damsel , she said . 
But there is something else . 
As Clement told me , thou seekest the Well at the World's End , and through Utterness and by Utterbol is a way whereby folk seek thither . 
Mayst thou find it , and may it profit thee more than it did my kinsman of old , who first raised up Goldburg in the wilderness . 
Her voice shook a little as she spake , and she was silent again , mastering her trouble . 
Then she said At last I must say this to thee , that there may no lie be between us . 
For thy mind looketh on thy deeds to come , that they shall be shared by some other than me . 
Farewell , farewell ! Therewith she arose , and once more she took his hand in hers , and led him to the door . 
So he left the Queen's House and the court thereof , as though the pavement were growing red hot beneath his feet . 
Clement laughed and said Not so fast , Lord Ralph thou mayst yet hear a word or two . 
So I bade him go and come again when thou shouldst be here . 
And I deem that he will not tarry long . 
He was clad gaily in an orange tawny coat laced with silver , and broidered with colours . 
He looked askance on Ralph , whose face flushed and whose eyes glittered at that word . 
But with such a scroll a child or a woman may wend the road unharmed . 
Where hast thou the said let pass ? said Clement . 
, under pain of falling into the displeasure of Gandolf , Lord of Utterbol and the date thereon was but three months old . 
Said Clement This is good , this let pass see thou , Ralph , the seal of Utterbol , the Bear upon the Castle Wall . 
None would dare to counterfeit this seal , save one who was weary of life , and longed for torments . 
Ralph blushed red , and said Nay , I will not ask her this . 
Then he was silent the new comer looked from one to the other , and said nothing . 
Clement sighed and grunted , and then said Well , lord , maybe thou art right . 
Ralph nodded friendly at him as he spake but Clement looked on him sternly and the man beheld his scowling face innocently , and took no heed of it . 
Well , said Clement , and when wilt thou depart ? To morrow , said Ralph , if my faring fellow be ready for me by then . 
Thou hast it , said Clement . 
Yea , said Ralph , and great the reward . 
Clement smiled and sighed , and said Well , lad , even so hath a many thought before thee , wise men as well as fools . 
Bull nodded his head , but frowned therewithal . 
Said Ralph If I bid thee aught that is not beyond reason thou wilt do it , wilt thou not ? Yea , said Bull , surlily . 
Moreover , I have an errand , as thou wottest , which is all mine own . 
And now I say to thee farewell but it is not altogether unlike that thou mayst hear of me again in the furthest East . 
This is my last word to thee . 
Therewith they parted , and Ralph rode his ways . 
So Ralph smiled on him and said Thou hast no weapon , then ? What need for weapon ? said he since we are not of might for battle . 
Or some call me Morfinn the Unmanned . 
Speak , wilt thou not , said Ralph , and tell me at once if thou hast seen this woman ? Be sure that I shall reward thee . 
Nay , nay , fair sir , said Morfinn a woman I have seen brought captive to the House of Utterbol . 
See thou to it if it be she whom thou seekest . 
or shall this ? and therewith he half drew his sword from his sheath . 
And as to thy gold , the wages shall be paid at the journey's end . 
I was but seeking about in my mind how best to tell thee my tale so that thou mightest believe my word , which is true . 
Is that aught like to your story , lord ? Yea , said Ralph , knitting his brows in eagerness . 
She was tall rather than short , and slim rather than bigly made . 
Is this aught like to thy friend ? He spake all this slowly and smoothly and that mocking smile came into his face now and again . 
Ralph grew pale as he spoke and knitted his brows as one in great wrath and grief and he was slow to answer but at last he said Yea , shortly and sharply . 
Then said Morfinn And yet after all it might not be she for there might be another or two even in these parts of whom all this might be said . 
That is well , lord , said Morfinn , I will do after thy command and there be many other matters to speak of besides one fair woman . 
Then they rode on soberly a while , and Ralph kept silence , as he rode pondering much but the minstrel hummed snatches of rhyme as he rode the way . 
Yea , she shall have a merry life of it if she but do somewhat after the Lord's will . 
Ralph's heart fell at this word , and he asked no question as to wherefore . 
But little merry were the husbandmen whom they met , either carles or queans , and they were scantily and foully clad , and sullen faced , if not hunger pinched . 
These were of aspect like to the gipsies of our time and nation , and were armed all of them , and mostly well clad after their fashion . 
Forsooth , some of them seemed to know him , and nodded friendly to him as they passed by , but he gave them back no good day . 
They had now ridden out of the lands of Goldburg , which were narrow on that side , and the day was wearing fast . 
This way the land was fair and rich , with no hills of any size . 
They crossed a big river twice by bridges , and small streams often , mostly by fords . 
These were big men , and savage looking , and their armour was utterly uncouth . 
The minstrel was loud in his mirth when they were well past these men but Ralph rode on silently , and was somewhat soberly . 
Fair sir , quoth the minstrel , I would wager that I know thy thought . 
Said Ralph Yea , something like that , forsooth , was my thought . 
But also I was pondering who should be my guide when I leave Utterbol . 
The minstrel looked at him askance quoth he Thou mayst leave thinking of that awhile . 
But I suppose thou hast been thinking of something else ? Well , said Ralph , tell me what thou hast to say of the Well . 
How sayest thou , is that not already something ? Yea , verily , said Ralph . 
But now he said And canst thou bring me to the said sage , good minstrel ? Without doubt , quoth Morfinn , when we are once safe at Utterbol . 
From Utterbol ye may wend any road . 
Said Ralph And is there some special peril ahead to morrow ? And if it be so , what is it ? Said his fellow It would avail thee naught to know it . 
What then , doth that daunt thee ? No , said Ralph , by then it is nigh enough to hurt us , we shall be nigh enough to see it . 
Well said ! quoth the minstrel but now we must mend our pace , or dark night shall overtake us amid these rough ways . 
When it was morning early they rode their ways , and the carle seemed glad to be rid of them . 
I never saw the like of this cloud . 
Said the minstrel Yea , fair sir , and of this cloud I must tell thee that it will change no more till the bones of the earth are tumbled together . 
Is it nigh to Utterness ? said Ralph . 
Nay , said the minstrel , not so nigh for as huge as it seemeth thence . 
Said Ralph Do folk tell that the Well at the World's End lieth beyond it ? Surely , said the minstrel . 
On then they rode , and when trees or some dip in the land hid that mountain top from them , the way seemed long to Ralph . 
So they brought him to the pavilion , and made him dismount and led him in . 
The dusk had fallen by now , but within it was all bright with candles . 
He was clad in a gown of blue silk , broidered with roundels beaten with the Bear upon the Castle wall . 
Beside him stood Morfinn bowed down with fear and not daring to look either at the Lord or at Ralph . 
Now go , for there are more than enough men under this woven roof , and we need no half men to boot . 
The lord said , grimly He is not far wrong to fear me , maybe but he shall go for this time . 
But if he bring me not those women within three months' wearing , and if there be but two uncomely ones amongst them , let him look to it . 
Give him his gold , David . 
Now take ye the new man , and let him rest , and give him meat and drink . 
Withal he bade him not to try fleeing , lest he be slain and he showed him how nigh the guards were and how many . 
Glad was the old man when he saw the captive put a good face on matters , and that he was not down hearted . 
In sooth that hatred of the tyrant mingled with hope sustained Ralph's heart . 
He had been minded when he was brought before the lord to have shown the letter of the Queen of Goldburg , and to defy him if he still held him captive . 
But when he had beheld him and his fellowship a while he thought better of it . 
Also he had no mind to wear his heart on his sleeve , but would keep his own counsel , and let his foemen speak and show what was in their minds . 
So then David spake pleasantly with Ralph , and ate and drank with him , and saw that he was well bedded for the night , and left him in the first watch . 
And at the worst I scarce deem that I am being led to the slaughter . 
So he plucked up heart , and spake freely and gaily with David and one or two others who rode anigh . 
If all tales be true thou art best this side thereof , whatever thy lot may be . 
Lieth death on the other side then ? quoth Ralph . 
For he was one of them with whom all women are in love and thence indeed was his luck . 
Moreover , when all is said , 'tis but a tale . 
Yea , quoth Ralph laughing , even as the tales of the ghosts and bugs that abide the wayfarer on the other side of yonder white moveless cloud . 
David drew up close to him , and said softly Nigher ? Yea , but belike not so much nigher . 
How meanest thou ? said Ralph . 
Said David Is it so nigh that a man may leave home and come thereto in his life time ? Yea , said Ralph , in my tales it is . 
Said the old man still softlier Had I deemed that true I had tried the adventure , whatever might lie beyond the mountains , but I deem it untrue . 
Therewith dropped the talk of that matter and in sooth Ralph was loath to make many words thereof , lest his eagerness shine through , and all the story of him be known . 
Anon it was noon , and the lord bade all men stay for meat so his serving men busied them about his dinner , and David went with them . 
Then the men at arms bade Ralph sit among them and share their meat . 
This man fell a talking with Ralph , and asked him of the manner of tilting and courteous jousting between knights in the countries of knighthood , till that talk dropped between them . 
Well , said the captain , I wot not it beareth plover and whimbrel and conies and hares yea , and men withal , some few . 
Said the captain Nay , and also yea . 
None shall dwell in it save as he willeth , and they shall pay him tribute , be it never so little . 
But my Lord unmanned him for some good reason . 
And the Goldburg folk are not very handy at a fray without their walls . 
Forsooth within them it is another matter , and beside not even our Lord of Utterbol would see Goldburg broken down , no , not for all that he might win there . 
Is it deemed a holy place in the land , then ? said Ralph . 
But somewhat after he had done eating comes David to him and says Up , young man ! and come to my lord , he asketh for thee . 
What will he want with me ? said Ralph . 
So they went forth but Ralph's heart fell and he sickened at the thought of seeing that man again . 
Nevertheless he set his face as brass , and thrust back both his fear and his hatred for a fitter occasion . 
David brought Ralph nigh to his seat , but spake not . 
The mighty lord was sitting with his head drooping , and his arm hanging over his knee , with a heavy countenance as though he were brooding matters which pleased him naught . 
So he answered coldly It is sooth , lord , that I can do more than one deed . 
Canst thou back a horse ? said the Lord . 
Said Ralph As well as many . 
Said the Lord Canst thou break a wild horse , and shoe him , and physic him ? Not worse than some , said Ralph . 
Can'st thou play with sword and spear ? said the Lord . 
Better than some few , said Ralph . 
How shall I know that ? said the Lord . 
Said Ralph Try me , lord ! Indeed , he half hoped that if it came to that , he might escape in the hurley . 
The Lord looked on him and said Well , it may be tried . 
But here is a cold and proud answerer , David . 
I misdoubt me whether it be worth while bringing him home . 
David looked timidly on Ralph and said Thou hast paid the price for him , lord . 
Yea , that is true , said the Lord . 
Thou ! can'st thou play at the chess ? Yea , said Ralph . 
Can'st thou music ? said the other . 
Yea , said Ralph , when I am merry , or whiles indeed when I am sad . 
The lord said Make thyself merry or sad , which thou wilt but sing , or thou shalt be beaten . 
Ho ! Bring ye the harp . 
Then they brought it as he bade . 
But Ralph looked to right and left and saw no deliverance , and knew this for the first hour of his thralldom . 
There we the once sundered together were blended , We strangers , unknown once , were hidden by naught . 
I kissed and I wondered how doubt was all ended , How friendly her excellent fairness was wrought . 
So ride we together with wealth winning wand , The steel o'er the leather , the ash in the hand . 
Hast thou others good store , new comer ? Yea , lord , said Ralph . 
And canst thou tell tales of yore agone , and of the fays and such like ? All that she must have . 
Some deal I can of that lore , said Ralph . 
Thou ! Morfinn's luck ! art thou of any use in the tilt yard ? Wilt thou try me , lord ? said Ralph , looking somewhat brisker . 
So he lifted up his head again , and was singing to himself as he stooped down to enter into his tent . 
And then will he slay me ? said Ralph . 
, and belike well beaten withal . 
Said Ralph , somewhat downcast Yea , I am a thrall , who was once a knight . 
Howsoever , that is not thy business and I bid thee fear naught for thou seemest to be a mettle lad . 
So they talked , and that day wore like the others , but the haze did not clear off , and the sun went down red . 
Said Ralph I suppose thy meaning is that we shall see the mountains from hence ? Yea , said David so hold up thine heart when that sight first cometh before thine eyes . 
But tell me , knight , how deemest thou of thy tilting to morrow ? Said Ralph Little should I think of it , if little lay upon it . 
Ralph laughed yet as though the jest pleased him but little and they fell to talk of other matters . 
And so David departed , and Ralph slept . 
And it was long that he could not take his eyes off them . 
As he looked , came up the Captain Otter , and said Well , Knight , thou hast seen them this morn , even if ye die ere nightfall . 
Moreover this is my thought , that all we of these parts should be milder men and of better conditions , if yonder terrible wall were away . 
It is as if we were thralls of the great mountains . 
It is a part of the tale of the seekers for the Well at the World's End , whereof we said a word that other day . 
And the Dry Tree , said Ralph , knowest thou thereof ? said Ralph . 
Such a tree , much beworshipped , said Otter , we have , not very far from Utterbol , on the hither side of the mountains . 
Yet I have heard old men say that it is but a toy , and an image of that which is verily anigh the Well at the World's End . 
But now haste thee to do on thy raiment , for we must needs get to horse in a little while . 
Cast on thy raiment , and eat and strengthen thyself for the day's work . 
Hast thou looked well on the mountains ? Yea , said Ralph , and the sight of them has made me as little downhearted as thou art . 
For thou art joyous of mood this morning . 
David nodded and smiled , and looked so merry that Ralph wondered what was toward . 
Yonder is my Lord's lady wife , who hath come to meet him , but in love , so to say , not in battle not yet . 
Though I say not that the cup of love betwixt them be brim full . 
Forsooth in my Lord's land the free men are of little account , since they must oftenest do as my Lord and my Lord's thralls bid them . 
Truly , brother , it is we who have the wits and the luck to rise above the whipping post and the shackles that are the great men hereabouts . 
I say we , for I deem that thou wilt do no less , whereas thou hast the lucky look in thine eyes . 
So let to day try it . 
Something told him that his damsel should be amongst these , so he gazed hard on them , but though they were goodly enough there was none of them like to her . 
Her eyes were blue and set wide apart , her nose a little snubbed , her mouth wide , full lipped and smiling . 
She was very tall , a full half head taller than any of her women yea , as tall as a man who is above the middle height of men . 
Now she came forward hastily with long strides , and knelt adown before the Lord , but even as she kneeled looked round with a laughing face . 
and he said Hail to thee , my Lady thou art come far from thine home to meet me , and I thank thee therefor . 
So now she stood by the board in the pavilion with her head drooping humbly , yet smiling to herself and heedful of whatso might betide . 
But the Lady walked up and down the pavilion hastily , as one much moved . 
At last she spake as she walked and said Agatha , didst thou see him when my Lord pointed him out ? Yea , said the woman lifting her face a little . 
And what seemed he to thee ? said the Lady . 
The Lady stamped her foot and lifted her hand and cried out . 
What ! dost thou deem thyself meet for him ? And she caught her by the folds over her bosom . 
Wilt thou have me beat thee ? Nay , I will send thee to the White Pillar when we come home to Utterbol . 
Yet belike he will obey thee if thou command , even to the lying in the same bed with thee for he is a thrall . 
, better than all thy body , for all thy white skin and lovely limbs . 
, her face all red with shame , yet smiling , though ruefully , and she said Well , thou art determined that if thou art punished it shall not be for naught . 
But thou knowest not my mind . 
Yea , Lady , said Agatha , smiling in despite of herself , that may well be . 
At last she said Hearken , Agatha , I must tell thee what lieth in mine heart , though thou hast been unkind to me and hast tried to hurt my soul . 
Now , thou art self willed , and hot blooded , and not unlovely , so that thou mayst have loved and been loved ere now . 
And I long for him to love me , and not alone to pleasure me . 
Mayhappen it will so betide without any pushing the matter , said Agatha . 
But as to the matter of a goddess , I know not . 
Now sat the Lady shaken with sobs , and weeping without stint but she looked up at that word and said Nay , nay , Agatha , it is not so . 
Yes , I am foolish , and empty headed , and unclean . 
And all this he will see through my queenly state , and my golden gown , and my white skin withal . 
Agatha looked on her curiously , but smiling no more . 
Yea , she said , rising up and falling walking to and fro swiftly , if he might hurt me and wound me himself , and I so loving him . 
So in a few days thou shalt see whether I am worth something more than hard words and beating . 
Only thou must promise in all wise to obey me , though I be the thrall , and thou the Lady , and to leave all the whole matter in my hands . 
Said the Lady Easy is this . 
So thou shalt not go from the pavilion till the night is dark , and thou mayst feign thyself sick meantime . 
Oh yes , said Agatha , if thou must have it so but fear thou not , he shall do well enough . 
Said the Lady Ah , but thou wottest how oft it goes with a chance stroke , that the point pierceth where it should not nay , where by likelihead it could not . 
I wot of these matters , my Lady . 
Said the Lady Yea , sit there if thou wilt . 
Take heed , take heed ! Agatha looked softly on her and said My Lady . 
Ye fair skinned , open faced women should look to it not to show yourselves angry before men folk . 
For open wrath marreth your beauty sorely . 
Leave scowls and fury to the dark browed , who can use them without wrying their faces like a three months' baby with the colic . 
Now that is my last rede as now . 
For methinks I can hear the trumpets blowing for the arraying of the tourney . 
Wherefore I must go to see to matters , while thou hast but to be quiet . 
And to night make much of my Lord , and bid him see me to morrow , and give heed to what I shall say to him . 
Otherwise I will tell him as soon as he is set down in his place . 
Sooth to say , he is little like to quarrel with either thee or me for setting a fair woman other than thee by his side . 
Agatha , quoth he , I will hear her , and I will do her pleasure if thou ask me so to do . 
But he went into the pavilion after he had cast one look at her . 
Sooth to say , Joyce being well nigh as tall as the Queen , and as white of skin , was otherwise a far fairer woman . 
Now spake Otter to Ralph I must leave thee here , lad , and go to the other side , as I am to run against thee . 
Otherwise will they find another and another , and at last it will be my turn . 
So keep thee well , lad . 
Therewith he rode away , and there came to Ralph one of the sergeants , who brought him a spear , and bade him to horse . 
So Ralph mounted and took the spear in hand and the sergeant said Thou art to run at whatsoever meeteth thee when thou hast heard the third blast of the horn . 
Art thou ready ? Yea , yea , said Ralph but I see that the spear head is not rebated , so that we are to play at sharps . 
Said Ralph I did but jest I deem myself not so near my death to day as I have been twice this summer or oftener . 
Said the sergeant , It is ill jesting in matters wherein my Lord hath to do . 
Now thou hast heard my word do after it . 
The Lord cried out , Well , Black Anselm , this is better done yet art thou a big man and a well skilled to be beaten by a stripling . 
So the man was helped away and Ralph went back to his place again . 
Then the Lord cried out Now make we an end of it ! We have no might against this youngling , man to man or else would Otter have done it . 
This comes of learning a craft diligently . 
So if thou art not too great a man , thou mightest put in a word for poor Redhead , that first man that did so ill . 
For my Lord would have him set up , and head down and buttocks aloft , as a target for our bowmen . 
And it will be his luck if he be sped with the third shot , and last not out to the twentieth . 
Yea , certes , said Ralph , I will do no less , even if it anger the Lord . 
O thou wilt not anger him , said the man , for I tell thee , thou art in favour . 
But come , tarry not . 
So now I am like to make something other of thee than I was minded to at first for I deem that thou art good enough to be a man . 
And if thou wilt now ask a boon of me , if it be not over great , I will grant it thee . 
Yet one thing thou mayst do for my asking if thou wilt . 
If thou be still angry with the carle whom I first unhorsed , I pray thee pardon him his ill luck . 
Ill luck ! said the Lord , Why , I saw him that he was downright afraid of thee . 
Said the Lord And what like a man is he in a fray ? Naught so ill , Lord , said Otter . 
This time , like the rest of us , he knew not this gear . 
It were scarce good to miss him at the next pinch . 
It were enough if he had the thongs over his back a few dozen times it will not be the first day of such cheer to him . 
Ha ! said the Lord , and what for , Otter , what for ? Because he was somewhat rough handed , Lord , said Otter . 
Then shall we need him and use him some day . 
Let him go scot free and do better another bout . 
There is thy boon granted for thee , knight and another day thou mayst ask something more . 
And now shall David have a care of thee . 
And when we come to Utterbol we shall see what is to be done with thee . 
Then Ralph rose up and thanked him , and David came forward , and led him to his tent . 
And he was wheedling in his ways to him , as if Ralph were now become one who might do him great good if so his will were . 
But the Lord went back again into the Tower . 
As to the Lady , she abode in her pavilion amidst many fears and desires , till Agatha entered and said My Lady , so far all has gone happily . 
Said the Lady I deemed from the noise and the cry that he was doing well . 
But tell me , how did he ? 'My Lady , quoth Agatha , he knocked our folk about well favouredly , and seemed to think little of it . 
Though it is a matter of course that all save our new come knight knew that it was not thou that sat there . 
And my Lord was well pleased , and now he hath taken her by the hand and led her into the Tower . 
The Lady reddened and scowled , and said And he . 
And he seemed to think it good to look out of the corners of his eyes at her though I do not say that she smiled on him . 
Now , our Lady , said Agatha , thou art marring the fairness of thy face again . 
I bid thee be at peace , for all shall be well , and other than thou deemest . 
Good , said Agatha then will I go to him to morrow morning , when Joyce has gone from him . 
So fell the talk betwixt them . 
CHAPTER A Friend Gives Ralph Warning On the morrow Ralph wandered about the Dale where he would , and none meddled with him . 
So he said Hail , good fellow ! What wouldst thou ? Said the man I would thank thee . 
Redhead looked him full in the face , and though he was both big and very rough looking , he had not altogether the look of a rascal . 
Yea , is it so bad as that ? said Ralph . 
For thee not yet , said Redhead , but it may come to it . 
Hearken , lord , there is none anigh us that I can see , so I will say a word to thee at once . 
Later on it may be over late Go thou not to Utterbol whatever may betide . 
But thou saidst even now , said Ralph , that I was high in the Lord's grace . 
, he will lay hand on thee and take the manhood from thee , and let thee drift about Utterbol a mock for all men . 
For already at heart he hateth thee . 
Ralph stood pondering this word , for somehow it chimed in with the thought already in his heart . 
Said Redhead There is no honour at Utterbol save for such as are unworthy of honour . 
But thy risk is as I say , and I shall tell thee whence I had my tale , since I love thee for thy kindness to me , and thy manliness . 
Well , said Ralph , let us sit down here on the bank and then tell me more but go on with thine angling the while , lest any should see us . 
Yea , said Ralph , I have had one guide in this country side and he bewrayed me . 
May all the curses of Utterbol be sevenfold heavier on me if I am thy traitor and dastard . 
Softly lad , softly , said Ralph , lest some one should hear thee . 
Content thee , I must needs believe thee if thou makest so much noise about it . 
Then Redhead sat him down again , and for all that he was so rough and sturdy a carle he fell a weeping . 
Nay , nay , said Ralph , this is worse in all wise than the other noise . 
Come to thyself again and let us look at this matter square in the face , and speedily too , lest some unfriend or busybody come on us . 
And that is but the sooth , said Ralph . 
Well then , quoth Redhead , there is the greater cause for thy fleeing at the time and in the manner I have bidden thee . 
What sayest thou then ? Said Ralph , I say that the Sage is good if I may find him . 
But there is another cause why I have come hither from Goldburg . 
What is that ? said Redhead . 
This , said Ralph , to come to Utterbol . 
But what availeth it ? If thou go to Utterbol thou wilt destroy both her and thee . 
How so ? quoth Ralph . 
Redhead , quoth Ralph much moved , though thou art in no knightly service , thou mayst understand that it is good for a friend to die with a friend . 
But now I say to thee , and swear to thee , that three days after thou hast met thy beloved in Utterbol she will be dead . 
I would that thou couldst ask someone else nearer to the Lord than I have been . 
The tale would be the same as mine . 
Now soothly to say it , this was even what Ralph had feared would be , and he could scarce doubt Redhead's word . 
But I will ask thee to give me some token that all holds together some little time beforehand . 
Quoth Redhead Even so shall it be thou shalt see me at latest on the eve of the night of thy departure but on the night before that if it be anywise possible . 
Now will I go away from thee , said Ralph , and I thank thee heartily for thine help , and deem thee my friend . 
And if thou think better of fleeing with me , thou wilt gladden me the more . 
Redhead shook his head but spake not , and Ralph went his ways down the dale . 
Agatha he saw not at all nor the Lady , and still deemed that the white skinned woman whom he had seen sitting by the Lord after the tilting was the Queen . 
On the morn of departure , when Ralph arose , David came to him and said My Lord is astir already , and would see thee for thy good . 
So he said Lord , thou art good to me , yet mayst thou be better if thou wilt . 
Yea , man ! said the Lord knitting his brows What shall it be ? say thy say , and be done with it . 
And if he must needs ride into the desert , and cast himself away in the mountains , so be it . 
But whatever he hath a mind to , let none hinder him , but further him rather hearest thou ? take him with thee . 
Then was Ralph overflowing with thanks , but the Lord heeded him naught , but looked askance at him and sourly . 
But the great men turned and went their ways from the Tower , and Ralph went with Otter and was full of glee , and as merry as a bird . 
But Otter looked on him , and said gruffly Yea now , thou art like a song bird but newly let out of his cage . 
But I can see the string which is tied to thy leg , though thou feelest it not . 
Why , what now ? quoth Ralph , making as though he were astonished . 
Hearken , said Otter there is none nigh us , so I will speak straight out for I love thee since the justing when we tried our might together . 
he will verily use thee for somewhat else . 
What , man ! be not downhearted ! come with us to Utterbol , since thou needs must . 
Be wise , and then the Lord shall have no occasion against thee above all , beware of crossing him in any matter of a woman . 
but thou and I together may rule in Utterbol and make better days there . 
Such an occasion shall he not have , fellow in arms , quoth Ralph . 
No gain , though forsooth they say that some have found it gainful . 
How so ? said Ralph . 
Said Otter That way lieth the way to the Well at the World's End , if one might find it . 
Of other signs I can tell thee naught and few of men are alive that can . 
But as now , see ye , they have struck our tents and the Queen's pavilion also so to horse , is the word . 
Yea , quoth Ralph , looking curiously toward the place where the Queen's pavilion had stood is not yonder the Queen's litter taking the road ? Yea , surely , said Otter . 
Then the litter will be empty , said Ralph . 
Maybe , or maybe not , said Otter but now I must get me gone hastily to my folk doubtless we shall meet upon the road to Utterbol . 
On the other hand at whiles the thicket came close up to the roadside . 
Now David biddeth press on past the wains and the driven beasts , which were going very slowly . 
But as the afternoon was drawing toward evening they heard great noise of horns behind them ) and the sound of horses galloping . 
They passed in a moment of time , and then David and Ralph and the rest rode on after them . 
Then said Ralph The Queen rideth well and hardily . 
Yea , said David , screwing his face into a grin , would he or no . 
And no more would he say thereon . 
But he heeded it little and went to sleep again . 
I say if thou fail , thou shalt repent but once all thy life long to wit . 
Ralph nodded his head , and said Fear not , I will not fail thee . 
And therewith they turned away from each other lest they should be noted . 
About two hours before noon they got to horse again , and , being no more encumbered with the wains and the beasts , rode at a good pace . 
As on the day before the road led them along the edge of the wildwood , and whiles it even went close to the very thicket . 
Ralph saw not Redhead as he got off his horse , and David according to his wont went with him to his tent . 
Anyhow , were I thou , I would be freer in two hours space . 
Is it to be so ? Yea , yea , said Ralph . 
Ralph turned and drew Redhead in , and said when they were in the tent again Yea , I saw it what then ? Said Redhead I shall be behind it abiding thee . 
Now give me a cup of wine , and let me go . 
Nay , said Redhead , it may not be I will not burden thy luck with my ill luck . 
and moreover I am seeking something which I may gain at Utterbol , and if I have it , I may do my best to say good night to that evil abode . 
Yea , said Ralph , and I wish thee well therein . 
Said Redhead , stammering somewhat It is even that woman of the Queen's whereof I told thee . 
And now one last word , since I must not be over long in thy tent , lest some one come upon us . 
who have drunk of the Well at the World's End are well looked to in this land . 
Therewith he turned and departed hastily . 
But Ralph left alone was sorely moved with hope and fear , and a longing that grew in him to see the damsel . 
BOOK THREE The Road To The Well At World's End . 
But Ralph got a horseback without delay and rode his ways warily across the highway and into the wood , and there was none to hinder him . 
Even therewith he deemed he heard a sound less harsh than the cry of the jay in the beech trees , and shriller than the moaning of the morning breeze in the wood . 
But yet he doubted somewhat of the voice when it had passed his ears , so he shook his rein , for he thought it not good to tarry . 
Scarce then had his horse stepped out , ere there came a woman running out of the thicket before him and made toward him over the lawn . 
So she ran up to him crying out Help , knight , help us ! and sank down therewith at his feet panting and sobbing . 
She was a fair woman , dark and sleek and lithe . 
for in good sooth she was none other than Agatha , who is afore told of . 
Said Ralph And how many were they ? O but three , fair sir , but three , she said and thou so fair and strong , like the war god himself . 
Ralph laughed Three to one is long odds , quoth he , but I will come with thee when thou hast let go my hands so that I may mount my horse . 
But wilt thou not ride behind me , fair damsel so wearied and spent as thou wilt be by thy night . 
Then she let him go , but followed him still with her eyes as he gat him into the saddle . 
Now , lord , I pray thee light down and listen to me . 
And therewith she sat down on the grass by the bole of a great oak . 
The blood mounted to Ralph's brow for anger when he called to mind how he had been led hither and thither on other folk's errands ever since he left Upmeads . 
But he said naught , and Agatha looked on him timidly and said I say I am her thrall , and I did it to serve her and because she bade me . 
Moreover , I tell thee here and now that all that he told thee of the affairs of Utterbol , and thine outlook there , is true and overtrue . 
Said Ralph Yea , but what is her case as now ? tell me . 
Had it been another woman she had by this time known all the bitterness that leadeth unto death at Utterbol . 
Nay , said Ralph angrily , I am not her lover , I am but her well willer . 
I would that the lord might find her gone when he cometh back to Utterbol . 
Yea , said Ralph , reddening , and is there any hope for her getting clear off ? So I deem , said Agatha . 
Maybe she hath fled from Utterbol . 
Tell it me that I may pardon thee and pass on . 
till within this hour that we met in the wood . 
She sighed therewith , and with her right hand played with the rent raiment about her bosom . 
to do as he would with thee , according as occasion might serve . 
For at heart he hateth thee , as I could see well . 
So a little before thou didst leave the camp , we , the Queen and I , went privily into a place of the woods but a little way hence . 
There I disarrayed both my lady and myself so far as was needful for the playing out the play which was to have seemed to thee a real adventure . 
This is all the tale , and now if thou wilt , thou mayst pardon me or if thou wilt , thou mayst draw out thy sword and smite off my head . 
And forsooth I deem that were the better deed . 
She knelt down before him and put her palms together , and looked up at him beseechingly . 
For seest thou not that I should have found out all the guile at Utterbol , and owed thy lady hatred rather than love thereafter . 
Yea , she said , but my lady might have had enough of thy love by then , and would belike have let thee alone to fall into the hands of the Lord . 
Yea , said Ralph , softly , and as if speaking to himself , yet am I lonely and unholpen . 
Said Ralph I may at least thank thee for that , and will trust in thee to do so much . 
Quoth she Then might I ask a reward of thee since forsooth other reward awaiteth me at Utterbol . 
Thou shalt have it , said Ralph . 
She said The reward is that thou kiss me ere we part . 
It must needs be according to my word , said Ralph , yet I must tell thee that my kiss will bear but little love with it . 
She answered naught but laid her hands on his breast and put up her face to him , and he kissed her lips . 
Then she said Knight , thou hast kissed a thrall and a guileful woman , yet one that shall smart for thee therefore grudge not the kiss nor repent thee of thy kindness . 
How shalt thou suffer ? said he . 
She looked on him steadfastly a moment , and said Farewell ! may all good go with thee . 
Then he shook his rein and rode his ways . 
CHAPTER Ralph Rides the Wood Under the Mountains A long way now rode Ralph , and naught befell him but the fashion of the wood . 
The wood was not very thick whereas he rode , so that he could see the whereabouts of the sun , and rode east as far as he could judge it . 
So he lay down and slept there with his naked sword by his side , and awoke not till the sun was high in the heavens next morning . 
Then he arose at once and went on his way after he had washed him , and eaten a morsel . 
On him Ralph drew his sword and drave him exceeding loth from his purchase , so that the knight dined off the bear's thieving . 
Another time he came across a bent where on the south side grew vines well fruited , and the grapes a ripening and he ate well thereof before he went on his way . 
Before nightfall he came on that same stream again , and it was now running straight from the east so he slept that night on the bank thereof . 
Now he passed through thickets at whiles not very great , and betwixt them rode hilly land grassed mostly with long coarse grass , and with whin and thorn trees scattered about . 
Then he rode his ways , and entered the wood and made the most of the way . 
Clear was the voice , and as sweet as the April blackbird sings . 
It spake again Naught answereth , yet meseemeth I know surely that a man is anigh and I am aweary of the waste , and long for fellowship . 
Nicholas to aid , I have little fear of wood wights . 
Withal I shall be but a dastard if I answer not one man , for fear of I know not what . 
So he spake in a loud and cheerful voice Yea , there is a man anigh , and I desire thy fellowship , if we might but meet . 
But I have , said the voice , and I am fain to see thee , for thy voice soundeth pleasant to me . 
Abide till I grope about for a stick or two . 
Slender of make was the new comer , not big nor tall of stature . 
But the new comer took his hand and led him to where the firelight was brightest and looked on him silently a while and Ralph gave back the look . 
Then she busied herself with gathering the kindling but presently she looked up at him , and said Let us make the wood shine wide about , for this is a feastful night . 
Not many days have worn since then but they have brought about changed days . 
He looked on her wistfully and said But thou wert dear to me then . 
Yea , she said , and thou to me but other things have befallen , and there is change betwixt . 
Nay , what change ? said Ralph . 
Even by the firelight he saw that she reddened as she answered I was a free woman then now am I but a runaway thrall . 
Then Ralph laughed merrily , and said , Then are we brought the nigher together , for I also am a runaway thrall . 
She smiled and looked down then she said Wilt thou tell me how that befell ? Yea , said he , but I will ask thee first a question or two . 
She nodded a yeasay , and looked on him soberly , as a child waiting to say its task . 
But thou hadst not then the necklace , which now I see thee bear , and which , seest thou ! is like to that about my neck . 
And she it was who told me of the way to the Well at the World's End , and many matters concerning them that seek it , whereof thou shalt wot soon . 
Said Ralph As to how thou wert made a thrall thou needest not to tell me for I have learned that of those that had to do with taking thee to Utterbol . 
But tell me here are met we two in the pathless wilds , as if it were on the deep sea , and we two seeking the same thing . 
It is death that hath sundered us , said Ralph . 
She came and sat down by him again , and said to him Thy questions I have answered but thou hast not yet told me the tale of thy captivity . 
But he sold me to the Lord of Utterbol , who would lead me to his house which irked me not , at first , because I looked to find thee there . 
My heart is sick to think of it , even as I sit by thy side . 
Said Ralph Thy last word maketh me afraid and ashamed to ask thee a thing . 
But tell me first , is that Lord of Utterbol as evil as men's fear would make him ? for no man is feared so much unless he is deemed evil . 
She was silent a while , and then she said He is so evil that it might be deemed that he has been brought up out of hell . 
Then Ralph looked sore troubled , and he said Dear friend , this is the thing hard for me to say . 
Forsooth , she said , smiling , I fled away timely before the tormentors should be ready . 
Forsooth it is an evil house and a mere piece of hell . 
But now we are out of it and free in the wildwood , so let us forget it for indeed it is a grief to remember it . 
And now once more let us mend the fire , for thy face is growing dim to me , and that misliketh me . 
Afterwards before we lie down to sleep we will talk a little of the way , whitherward we shall turn our faces to morrow . 
So they cast on more wood , and pineapples , and sweet it was to Ralph to see her face come clear again from out the mirk of the wood . 
Sooth it is that for many days past I have sought thee that thou mightest lead me . 
Yea , she said , then since I am delivered , I must needs deem of it as if it were through thy deed . 
And as I suppose thou lookest for a reward therefor , so thy reward shall be , that I will lead thee to the Well at the World's End . 
Is it enough ? Nay , said Ralph . 
They held their peace a minute , then she said Maybe when we have drunk of that Water and are coming back , it will be for thee to lead . 
For true it is that I shall scarce know whither to wend since amidst of my dreaming of the Well , and of . 
other matters , my home that was is gone like a dream . 
He looked at her , but scarce as if he were heeding all her words . 
Then he spoke Yea , thou shalt lead me . 
I have been led by one or another ever since I have left Upmeads . 
Now she looked on him somewhat ruefully , and said Thou wert not hearkening e'en now so I say it again , that the time shall come when thou shalt lead me . 
Knowest thou of the Rock of the Fighting Man ? Yea , she said . 
Yet I must tell thee that there is some peril in seeking to him whereas his dwelling is known of the Utterbol riders , who may follow us thither . 
And yet again I deem that he will find some remedy thereto . 
But now I see thee drooping with the grief of days bygone and I deem also that thou art weary with the toil of the way . 
So I rede thee lie down here in the wilderness and sleep , and forget grief till to morrow is a new day . 
Would it were come , said he , that I might see thy face the clearer yet I am indeed weary . 
So he went and fetched his saddle and lay down with his head thereon and was presently asleep . 
CHAPTER They Ride the Wood Under the Mountains When Ralph woke on the morrow it was broad day as far as the trees would have it so . 
He thought her fairer than erst , and made as if he would put his arms about her , but she held a little aloof from him , blushing yet more . 
Then she said in her sweet clear voice Hail fellow farer ! now begins the day's work . 
He did as she bade him , thinking of her all the while till he came back to her fresh and gay . 
Soothly , my friend , it irks me that now we have met after a long while , I must needs be clad thus graceless . 
Of all which I will tell thee hereafter , and what wise I must needs steer betwixt stripes and kisses these last days . 
But now let us arm and to horse . 
Therewith she showed him a short Turk bow and a quiver of arrows , which he took well pleased . 
So they mounted and went their ways through a close pine wood , where the ground was covered with the pine tree needles , and all was still and windless . 
So as they rode said Ursula I seek tokens of the way to the Sage of Swevenham . 
Hast thou seen a water yesterday ? Yea , said Ralph , I rode far along it , but left it because I deemed that it turned north overmuch . 
Thou wert right , she said , besides that thy turning from it hath brought us together for it would have brought thee to Utterbol at last . 
But now have we to hit upon another that runneth straight down from the hills not the Great Mountains , but the high ground whereon is the Sage's dwelling . 
I know not whether the ride be long or short but the stream is to lead us . 
Therefore I was thinking that if ever I come back to mine own land and my home , the scent of a pine wood shall make me happy . 
Howbeit , we be well ahead , and it is little like that we shall be overtaken before we have met the Sage and then belike he shall provide . 
Forsooth there are some things which a man may not easily tell to a man , be he never so much his friend as thou art to me . 
And therewith she flushed exceedingly . 
But he said in a kind voice I am sorry that I asked thee , and will ask thee no more thereof . 
She smiled on him friendly , and they spake of other matters as they rode on . 
He said , somewhat shame facedly Take it not ill that I am fain to hear of thee and thy life days , since we are become fellow farers . 
Well , she said , this befell outside Utterbol , so I will tell thee . 
I asked what ailed him , though indeed I deemed that I knew . 
I said that he guessed aright , but that if he would do friendly with me , I would be no less than a friend to him . 
'That availeth little , quoth he 'I would have thee be mine of thine own will . 
I said that might not be , that I could love but one man alone . 
'Is he alive ? said he . 
'Goodsooth , I hope so , said I , 'but if he be dead , then is desire of men dead within me . 
So we spake , and he was downcast and heavy of mood but thenceforward was he no worse to me than a brother . 
So I asked what ailed him , and he said 'My end draweth nigh I have seen my fetch , and am fey . 
My grave abideth me in these mountains . 
'Thou hast been dreaming ugly dreams , said I , 'such things are of no import . 
And I spoke lightly , and strove to comfort him . 
He changed not his mood for all that but said 'This is ill for thee also for thou wilt be worser without me than with me in these lands . 
Even so I deemed , and withal I was sorry for him , for though he were uncouth and ungainly , he was no ill man . 
So against my will I tumbled into the samelike mood as his , and we both fared along drearily . 
To make a short tale of it , he bade Bull sell me to him , which Bull utterly naysaid , standing stiff and stark before the Lord , and scowling on him . 
But the Lord laughed in his face and said 'So be it , for I will take her without a price , and thank thee for sparing my gold . 
Then said Bull 'If thou take her as a thrall , thou wert best take me also else shall I follow thee as a free man and slay thee when I may . 
Many are the days of the year , and on some one of them will betide the occasion for the knife . 
Withal I was sorry for Bull Nosy , for he was no ill man and had become my friend . 
Thereat he turned pale , as he had done before Bull Nosy , yet sent for none to slay me , but only bade me back to my keepers . 
And so I came to Utterbol unscathed . 
That is all my tale for this time . 
CHAPTER They Come on the Sage of Swevenham Night was at hand before they came to the stream that they sought . 
They found it cleaving the pine wood , which held on till the very bank of it , and was thick again on the further side in a few yards' space . 
The stream was high banked and ran deep and strong . 
Said Ursula as they came up to it We may not cross it , but it matters not and it is to morrow that we must ride up along it . 
So they abode there , and made a fire by the waterside , and watched there , turn and turn about , till it was broad day . 
Naught befell to tell of , save that twice in the night Ralph deemed that he heard a lion roar . 
But Ursula was of good cheer , and mocked him merrily but sweetly , till his heart was lightened again . 
Withal she bade him seek some venison , since they were drawing out the time , and she knew not how long it would be ere they came to the Sage's dwelling . 
Therefore he betook him to the Turk bow , and shot a leash of heath fowl , and they supped on the meat merrily in the wilderness . 
Their resting place was a smooth piece of greensward betwixt the water and a half circle of steep bent that well nigh locked it about . 
So now mount your horses and come with me straightway because life is short to them who have not yet drunk of the Well at the World's End . 
Moreover if ye chance to come on the riders of Utterbol , it shall go hard with you unless I be at hand . 
Thus they went for an hour , and the elder spake not again , though it might have been deemed by his eyes that he was eager and fain . 
They also held their peace for the hope and fear of their hearts kept them from words . 
Ralph looked at all closely , and wondered whether this were perchance the cot wherein the Lady of Abundance had dwelt with the evil witch . 
But the elder looked on him , and said I know thy thought , and it is not so that house is far away hence yet shalt thou come thereto . 
Therewith he brought them into the house , and into a chamber , the plenishing whereof was both scanty and rude . 
But as for the old man he spoke but few words , and as one unused to speech , albeit he was courteous and debonair . 
Quoth Ralph For me , little enough I know , save that I must come to the Rock of the Fighting Man , and that thou knowest the way thither . 
And now I know all , and can teach all . 
Yea , quoth the Sage , and what hath befallen her ? . 
Nay , nay , said he , I need not ask for I can see by your faces that she is dead . 
Therefore hath she been slain , or otherwise she had not been dead . 
So I ask you if ye were her friends ? Quoth Ursula Surely she was my friend , since she befriended me and this man I deem was altogether her friend . 
Ralph hung his head , and the Sage gazed on him , but said naught . 
Abide a little , therefore . 
Then he went unto an ark , and took thence a book wrapped in a piece of precious web of silk and gold , and bound in cuir bouilly wrought in strange devices . 
Then I turned to it , and read in it , and became wise , and the folk sought to me , and afterwards that befell which was foredoomed . 
Now herein amongst other matters is written of that which ye desire to know , and I will read the same to you and expound it . 
Yet were it not well to read in this book under a roof , nay , though it be as humble and innocent as this . 
There he abode a little , wondering at all these things and all that had befallen him since he had left Upmeads . 
Anon the two others came to him , and Ursula was clad in the same like raiment and the elder had the book in his hand . 
He smiled on Ralph and nodded friendly to him . 
The Elder looked on them soberly , but nowise in anger , and presently began reading in the book . 
Until at last when he asked any question Ralph or the maiden answered it rightly at once and by this time the sun was about to set . 
So he bade them home to his house that they might eat and sleep there . 
Therewithall they gat to horse but Ralph would have the Elder ride his nag , while he went afoot by the side of Ursula . 
Thou art as a fair spring morning gone cold and overcast in the afternoon . 
Therewith she reached her hand to him , and he took it and kissed it and caressed it while she looked fondly at him , and they fared on sweetly and happily together . 
And for his part the old man said naught to them and made as if he heard them not , when they spake thuswise together . 
But the second thing is the chase from Utterbol . 
So be it , said Ralph , I have been bewrayed so oft of late , that I must needs trust thee , or all help shall fail me . 
There then they sat to meat unarmed , for the Sage had said to them Doff your armour ye shall not come to handystrokes with the Utterbol Riders . 
So they ate their meat in the wilderness , and were nowise ungleeful , for to those twain the world seemed fair , and they hoped for great things . 
But though they were glad , they were weary enough , for the way had been both rugged and long so they lay them down to sleep while the night was yet young . 
So therewith he turned about on the grass and was asleep at once . 
Belike the fire was an earth fire , and for the rest we saw wrong in the moonlight . 
Spake the first man again , and his voice quavered yet more Nay nay , Otter , it is not so . 
Lo you the skeleton and the bones and the grey stones ! And the fire , here this minute , there the next . 
O Otter , this is an evil place of an evil deed ! Let us go seek elsewhere let us depart , lest a worse thing befall us . 
Well , it is good but better were it to ride with my mate than serve the Devil and his Nephew . 
Then they arose and thanked the Sage with whole hearts and praised his wisdom . 
And therewith they fell asleep and slept sweetly . 
CHAPTER They Come to the Sea of Molten Rocks When they woke again the sun was high above their heads , and they saw the Sage dighting their breakfast . 
But , said she , his love lay not so deep but that he would have avenged him for my guile on my very body had he taken us . 
Ralph reddened and scowled at her word , and the Sage led them into the other talk . 
So long was that fell , that they were nigh benighted ere they gained the topmost , or came to any pass . 
Now from to morrow , when we enter into the great sea of the rock molten in the ancient earth fires , there is no least peril of pursuit for you . 
Now ye would not turn back were I to bid you , and I will not bid you . 
What say ye , children ? Then said Ralph Father , I will say the sooth about mine intent , though ye may deem it little minded . 
The dead would I love and remember the living would I love and cherish and Earth shall be the well beloved house of my Fathers , and Heaven the highest hall thereof . 
It is well , said the Sage , all this shalt thou do and be no little heart , though thou do no more . 
And thou , maiden ? She looked on Ralph and said I lost , and then I found , and then I lost again . 
Maybe I shall find the lost once more . 
And for the rest , in all that this man will do , I will help , living or dead , for I know naught better to do . 
Again it is well , said the Sage , and the lost which was verily thine shalt thou find again , and good days and their ending shall betide thee . 
Ye shall have no shame in your lives and no fear in your deaths . 
Wherefore now lieth the road free before you . 
So now we will eat a morsel , and then use diligence that we may reach the beginning of the rock sea before nightfall . 
So did they , and the Sage led them down by a slant way from off the ridge , which was toilsome but nowise perilous . 
So about sunset they came down into the plain , and found a belt of greensward , and waters therein betwixt the foot of the ridge and the edge of the rock sea . 
Sometimes it thrust out into the green shore below the fell , and otherwhile drew back from it as it had cooled ages ago . 
and they led the horses up the said scree , which was a hard business , as they were no mountain beasts . 
Now when they came to the narrow end of the plain they found still a wide way between the rock walls , that whiles widened out , and whiles drew in again . 
Now ye see that he may not scale the rocks about us here without toil but to morrow night we may climb up somewhere and look on what is toward . 
But the Sage led through it all unfumbling , and moreover now and again they came on that carven token of the sword and the bough . 
So did they , and the head of the rock was higher than the main face of the rock sea , so that they could see afar . 
Spake the Sage It is far away yet if the wind were not blowing from us , we had smelt the smoke , and the sky had been darkened by it . 
Now it is naught so far from Utterbol , and it will be for a token to them there . 
Then was Ralph exceeding glad of her words , and the Sage laughed inwardly when he beheld them thus . 
Then spake the Sage Here now will we rest , and by my will to morrow also , that your beasts may graze their fill of the sweet grass of these unwarded meadows . 
which feedeth many a herd unowned of man , albeit they pay a quit rent to wild things that be mightier than they . 
Then the Sage looked kindly on them and said Yea , then is the last word spoken , and the world may yet grow merrier to me . 
So there they stood in an awful bight of the mountain , made by that ness , and the main wall from which it thrust out . 
But Ralph got off his horse , and Ursula did in likewise , and they both kissed and embraced the old man , for their hearts were full and fain . 
Then the twain mounted their horses again and set forth silently on the road , as they had been bidden . 
They seemed to be wending a straight walled prison without an end , so that they were glad when the dark night came on them . 
Ralph found some shelter in the cleft of a rock above a mound where was little grass for the horses . 
He drew Ursula into it , and they sat down there on the stones together . 
So long they sat silent that a great gloom settled upon Ralph , and he scarce knew whether he were asleep or waking , alive or dead . 
So there anon they fell asleep for weariness , and no dreams of terror beset their slumbers . 
Now to night it shall be otherwise , and I will but ask a question of thee , and hearken to the sweetness of thy voice . 
Yea , she said , with a good will . 
He laughed for joy of her , and in a little that talk fell down between them . 
Despite the terror of the desert and the lonely ways , when Ralph laid him down on his stony bed , happiness wrapped his heart about . 
In such places must they needs rest them , to refresh their horses as well as themselves , and to gather food , of venison , and wild fruit and nuts . 
But abiding in such vales was very pleasant to them . 
Therefore they knew that they had come to their winter house , and they rejoiced thereat , and without more ado they got off their horses and went into the cavern . 
The entry thereof was low , so that they must needs creep into it , but within it was a rock hall , high , clean and sweet smelling . 
There then they dight their dwelling , doing all they might to be done with their work before the winter was upon them . 
Withal in whatsoever way it were , they loved each other dearly , and all kind of speech flowed freely betwixt them . 
Yet still was that fear of her naysay lurking in his heart , if he should kiss her , or caress her , as a man with a maid . 
Therefore he forbore , though desire of her tormented him grievously at whiles . 
They wore their armour but little now , save when they were about some journey wherein was peril of wild beasts . 
Ursula had dight her some due woman's raiment betwixt her knight's surcoat and doe skins which they had gotten , so that it was not unseemly of fashion . 
No man they saw , nor any signs of man , nor had they seen any save the Sage , since those riders of Utterbol had vanished before them into the night . 
So the winter wore also amidst sweet speech and friendliness betwixt the two , and they lived still as dear friends , and not as lovers . 
Seldom they spoke of the Quest , for it seemed to them now a matter over great for speech . 
But so grievous was her tale that Ralph grew grim thereover , and he said By St . 
We will think thereof and ask the Sage of it when we return . 
Who knows what shall have befallen then ? Remember the lighting of the candle of Utterbol that we saw from the Rock sea , and the boding thereof . 
So Ralph was appeased for that time . 
I think , my dear , that I have no country , nor any house to welcome me . 
Said Ralph All lands , any land that thou mayst come to , shall welcome thee , and I shall look to it that so it shall be . 
And in his heart he thought of the welcome of Upmeads , and of Ursula sitting on the dais of the hall of the High House . 
Whiles also they waded the shallows of the flood , and whiles poled a raft about it , and so had pleasure of the waters as before they had had of the snow . 
So because of this Ralph had bidden Ursula not to fare abroad without her sword , which was sharp and strong , and she no weakling withal . 
Fear came into his heart therewith , so he arose and strode down over the meadow hastily bearing his new spear , and girt with his sword . 
Now there was a grove of chestnuts betwixt him and the river , but on the other side of them naught but the green grass down to the water's edge . 
So at last they drew apart a little , and walked quietly toward the rock house hand in hand . 
And therewith she turned on him and cast her arms about him again , all weeping for joy of their two lives . 
And first , I will tell thee that my kisses are as thine and if thine are aught but the kisses of love , then am I befooled . 
And next , I say that if thou wilt be my friend indeed , I will not spare to call thee beloved , or to be all thy friend . 
Yet shall all be as thou wilt . 
How shall I not do after thy bidding ? said Ralph . 
She laughed and said Nay , why should I torment thee . 
or me ? We will not tarry for this . 
And therewith she took her arm about his neck and kissed him oft . 
Then they said naught awhile , but sat listening happily to the song of the pairing birds . 
For that I have sorrowed many a time since . 
Said Ralph I am young and unmighty , yet lo ! I heal thy sorrow as if I were an exceeding mighty man . 
And now I tell thee that I am minded to go back with thee to Upmeads straightway for love will prevail . 
Then she reddened , and said Ah , I forgot how keen eyes thou art . 
And she stood silent a little while , as he looked on her and loved her sweetness . 
She laughed and said That were but strange attire for a cook maid , Ralph , my friend yet shall I do thy will , my lord and my love . 
Then he hung the skin and the carcase on a tree of the grove , and went down to the river and washed him , and then went lightly homewards . 
So he hastened on to find what this might mean , and drew his sword as he went . 
They were goodly men all three , somewhat brown of skin , but well fashioned , and of smiling cheerful countenance , well knit , and tall . 
The elder had a long white beard , but his eye was bright , and his hand firm and smooth . 
And see ye the token thereof , the pair of beads which we bear , either of us , and the fashion whereof ye know . 
Will ye set out on the journey to day ? In one hour shall we be ready . 
Nay , said Ralph , we will not depart till tomorrow morn , if it may be so . 
Therewith I bid you sit down and rest you , while ye hearken a word which I have to say to you . 
Therefore have we the more joy in you . 
And if ye will , we shall build for you in the grove yonder such a bower as we build for our own folk on the night of the wedding . 
Ralph yeasaid this , and thanked them . 
The day was yet young when they went their ways . 
These men greeted them kindly , and yet with more worship than fellowship , and they marvelled exceedingly at their horses and weapons . 
Thence they passed on , and the next day came into a wide valley , well grassed and watered , and wooded here and there moreover there were cots scattered about it . 
The land seemed as goodly as might be , and all the folk they met were kind , if somewhat over reverent . 
were much honoured of the simple people for their way leading of the Heavenly Folk for so they called Ralph and Ursula . 
Thereafter they came on woods of oak and sweet chestnut , with here and there a beech wood . 
Yet was June at its full when at last they came within sight of the House of the Sorceress , on the hottest of a fair afternoon . 
But Ralph slowly gat off his horse and stood by Ursula who was on the ground already , but would not touch her , for he was ashamed . 
So I will but bid thee be comforted and abide in thy love for the living and the dead . 
His tears brake out again at that word , for he was but young , and for a while there was a lull in the strife that had beset his days . 
She said O friend , thou art kind , and I love thee . 
The said wardens , both carle and quean , were goodly folk of middle age , stalwart , and kind of face . 
Great joy they made together , and the wardens set meat and drink before the guests , and they ate and drank and were of good cheer . 
Therefore is it naught wonderful , though I have been sundry times at this house , and have learned about the place all that may be learned . 
Then he is alive still , said the elder . 
Said Ralph Yea , and as fair and strong an old man as ye may lightly see . 
Yea , yea , said the elder , and yet fifty years ago his course seemed run . 
Then said Ralph Tell me , father , have none of your own folk sought to the Well at the World's End ? Nay , none , said the elder . 
Said Ralph That is strange , whereas ye are so nigh thereto , and have such abundant lore concerning the way . 
Of strife and of war also we know naught nor do we desire aught which we may not easily attain to . 
Of such matters are there tales current amongst us that so it hath been of yore and in other lands and ill it were if such times came back upon us . 
Ralph hung his head and was silent for the joy of the Quest seemed dying out as the old man's words dropped slowly from his mouth . 
And because of all this ye desire healing and thriving , whether good come of it , or ill . 
Ralph reddened as he spake , and Ursula looked on him anxiously , but that talk dropped for the present , and they fell to talking of lighter and more familiar matters . 
All these and other places were now become as hallowed ground to the Innocent People , and to Ralph no less . 
In another ark also they showed the seekers a book wherein was written lore concerning the Well , and the way thereto . 
And so it was that they found the due raiment in the ark along with the book . 
Therefore day after day betimes in the morning they bore the said book to the altar and read therein , till they had learned much wisdom . 
And she rose up therewith and threw her arms about the oak bole and kissed its ruggedness , while Ralph as he lay kissed the sleekness of her feet . 
This is the worst of my heart , and evil is my coward fear . 
So then they armed them , and mounted their horses and set forward . 
Then he bent the Turk bow and set an arrow on the string and they went on warily . 
But when he had come nigher , he turned and cried out to her The man is dead , come anigh . 
So she went up to him and dismounted , and they both together stood over the man , who was lying up against a big stone like one at rest . 
How long he had lain there none knows but God for in the saltness of the dry desert the flesh had dried on his bones without corrupting , and was as hardened leather . 
He was in full armour of a strange and ancient fashion , and his sword was girt to his side , neither was there any sign of a wound about him . 
This day , forsooth , they found so many dead folk , that they might not stay to bury them , lest they themselves should come to lie there lacking burial . 
So they made all the way they might , and rode on some hours by starlight after the night was come , for it was clear and cold . 
So that at last they were so utterly wearied that they lay down amongst those dead folk , and slept soundly . 
on any of those dead folk yesterday ? Nay , said Ralph , though sooth to say I looked for it . 
Forsooth had they been alive now , with swords to smite withal , and hands to drag us into captivity , it had been another matter but against these I feel bold . 
Ralph sighed , and said Yea , but even if we die not in the waste , yet this is piteous so many lives passed away , so many hopes slain . 
Yea , she said but do not folk die there in the world behind us ? I have seen sights far worser than this at Utterbol , little while as I was there . 
He said I fear neither the Waste nor the dead men if thou fearest not , beloved but I lament for these poor souls . 
And I also , said she therefore let us on , that we may come to those whose grief we may heal . 
Whatever semblance of moving was in them was when the eddying wind of the valley stirred the rags of their raiment , or the long hair of the women . 
But a very midmost of this dreary theatre rose up a huge and monstrous tree , whose topmost branches were even the horns which they had seen from below the hill's brow . 
For a while they looked down silently on to this marvel then from both their lips at once came the cry THE DRY TREE . 
And therewith he knelt down that he might take of the water in the hollow of his hand . 
We have been down there already , she said , and well it is that we are not both lying there now . 
Then he got to his feet , and stretched himself , and yawned like one just awakened from long sleep . 
But she said Let us to horse and begone it is early hours to slumber , for those that are seeking the Well at the World's End . 
Then he praised Ursula's wisdom and valiancy till she bade him forbear lest he weary her . 
Albeit she drew up close to him and kissed his face sweetly . 
They heard some sort of beasts roaring in the night , but they were too weary to watch , and might not make a fire . 
Now they mounted their horses at once and rode on and the beasts were as eager as they were , and belike smelt the water . 
So when they had ridden but three miles , they saw a fair little river before them winding about exceedingly , but flowing eastward on the whole . 
So when they had drunk their fill , for the pleasure of the cool water they waded the ford barefoot , and it was scarce above Ursula's knee . 
Then they had great joy to lie on the soft grass and eat their meat , while the horses tore eagerly at the herbage close to them . 
Then again they rested and let the horses yet bite the grass , and departed not from that pleasant place till it was two hours after noon . 
But in any case they might not try the adventure of that stair by the failing light , and with the night long before them . 
The day was bright and fair with no wind , save light airs playing about from the westward ort , and all things gleamed and glittered in the sun . 
But she wept for joy as she fawned upon him , and let her hands beat upon his body . 
But when they were somewhat calmed of their ecstasy of joy , they made ready to go down by that rocky stair . 
So Ralph took it and held it aloft so that its pure metal flashed in the sun , and he said This is for thee , Sweetling . 
Yea , and for thee , she said . 
Then she gave him the cup again and said Drink , and tarry not , lest thou die and I live . 
Quoth he And how tasteth to thee the water of the Well ? Slowly she spake and sleepily It tasted good , and as if thy love were blended with it . 
But he broke off and looked on her and she smiled upon the love in his eyes , and his head fell back and he slept with a calm and smiling face . 
And she leaned over him to kiss his face but even therewith her own eyes closed and she laid her head upon his breast , and slept as peacefully as he . 
But if it be not gone , then there may yet be another token . 
Yea , I have noted it but let me see now what has befallen with it . 
Nay , none ? quoth he . 
None , none ! she said , Didst thou say the very sooth of thy hurt in the battle , O poor lad of mine ? Yea , the sooth , said he . 
Then said Ralph What is toward , beloved ? For thy laugh is rather of joy that of mirth alone . 
Surely then it is calling me to deeds , and if it were but morning , as it is now drawing towards sunset , we would mount and be gone straightway . 
The said Folk received them in all joy and triumph , and would have them abide there the winter over . 
But they prayed leave to depart , because their hearts were sore for their own land and their kindred . 
So the twain took leave of their friends there , and howbeit that they had drunk of the Well at the World's End , yet were their hearts grieved at the parting . 
The kind folk left with them abundant provision for the remnant of the road , and a sumpter ox to bear it so they were in no doubt of their livelihood . 
And that shall be better for thee belike than it has been for me though for me also the world has not gone ill after my fashion since I drank of that water . 
Then was Ursula come up , and she also lighted down and made much of the Sage . 
The old man laughed a little , and reddened withal , but answered nothing . 
But , quoth he , since ye have verily drunk of the Well at the World's End , ye have come back no later than I looked for you . 
But sooth it is that the foreboding of the Giant's Candle was not for naught . 
For there hath verily been a change of masters at Utterbol . 
Yea , said Ralph , for better or worse ? Said the Sage It could scarce have been for worse but if rumour runneth right it is much for the better . 
Hearken how I learned thereof . 
And many there be who deem that no mishap , heathen though I be . 
Come thou to Utterbol and see for thyself if the days be not changed there and thou shalt have a belly full of meat and drink , and honour after thy deserving . 
So they rested a while , and then went their ways . 
But all feared him , I scarce know why and , moreover , there was none to be master if he were gone . 
But if these be thy friends it will be well . 
Therefore thou art free to come with them and bear witness to their good life . 
I am Lord of Utterbol and therewithal Bull Shockhead , whose might was less than thine on the bent of the mountain valley . 
Therewith he caught hold of Ralph's hand , and sat himself down and drew Ralph down , and made him sit beside him . 
Thou seest I am become great ? said he . 
Moreover I did not run away from thee , but thou rannest from me , lad . 
But these thy fellows ? I have seen the old carle before he was dwelling in the wildwood because he was overwise to live with other folk . 
But this young man , who may he be ? Or else yea , verily , it is a young woman . 
Yea , and now I deem that it is the thrall of my brother Bull Nosy . 
Therefore by heritage she is now mine . 
Ralph heard the words but saw not the smiling face , so wroth he was therefore the bare sword was in his fist in a twinkling . 
It is well , it is well , said Bull , and in very sooth I deem thee my friend and this damsel was my brother's friend . 
For I can see in thine eyes and thy gait , and in thine also , maiden , that ye have drunk of the Well at the World's End . 
Therefore I pray you gently and heartily that ye come home with me to Utterbol . 
Ralph shook his head , and answered Lord of Utterbol , I bid thee all thanks for thy friendliness , but it may not be . 
But take note , said Bull , that all is changed there , and it hath become a merry dwelling of men . 
Now come ye , if it were but for a moon's wearing I shall be there in eight days' time . 
Though I have heard say that while she was under the tyrant she was somewhat rough with her women when she was sad . 
Forsooth , though this she told me not , I deem that she would have had the same gift of thee as her mistress would . 
Well , lad , lucky are they with whom all women are in love . 
So now I prithee trust so much in thy luck as to come with me to Utterbol . 
The new Lord's face clouded somewhat , as he said If thine heart draweth thee to thy kindred , there is no more to say . 
As for me , what I did was for kindred's sake , and then what followed after was the work of need . 
Howsoever ye may be busied , gainsay me not this and to morrow I shall further you on your way , and give you a score of spears to follow thee to Goldburg . 
For he is now my right hand man , as he was of the dead man . 
But that pavilion was yet in all wise as it was wont to be , saving that the Bull had supplanted the Bear upon the Castle wall . 
But on Ralph's right hand was at first a void place , whereto after a while came Otter , the old Captain of the Guard . 
Ralph laughed for joy of him , and yet said soberly As to honour , meseems I covet little world's goods , save that it may be well with my folk at home . 
Then straightway all the noise ceased , and the glee and clatter of the hall , and there was dead silence . 
Or else shall I die in the pain . 
Therewith he drank of the cup , and all men shouted . 
This is my oath swearing . 
And he drank mightily and sat down . 
We will it , said the Lord . 
Said the Lord , This shall ye hear of me with Otter to help me out . 
By this time the others also had got some distance away from me , and I was left pretty much alone . 
Now belike one thing of me thou wottest not , to wit , that I have a gift that wild things love and will do my bidding . 
But presently I saw weapons glitter on the other side of the square place , and men with bended bows . 
The yellow king saw them also , and rose up again and stood growling then I strove to quiet him , and said , 'These shall not harm thee . 
Said I , 'Wilt thou sell him ? 'Yea' said he , 'if thou livest another hour to tell down the money . 
Said I , 'I am a tamer of wild beasts , and if thou wilt sell this one at such a price , I will rid thee of him . 
The man yeasaid this , but kept well aloof with his fellows , who looked on , handling their weapons . 
Howbeit the next day the officers of the Porte came and bade me avoid the town of Goldburg , but gave me more money withal . 
Thus came I to Utterness , and found it poor and wretched , . 
and its gardens , and orchards , and acres , and meadows as goodly as may be . 
Yea , a very paradise yet the dwellers therein as if it were hell , as I saw openly with mine own eyes . 
I laughed in her face and went my ways and thereafter I saw many folk and showed them my beast , and soon learned two things clearly . 
And first that the Lord and the Lady were now utterly at variance . 
, he made thy friend Agatha pay for her under pretence of wringing a true tale out of her . 
Now when I heard this story I said to myself that I should hear that other one of the slaying of my brother , and even so it befell . 
and how he had slain my brother to get her , even as doubtless thou knowest , Lord Ralph . 
Well , in three days from that word home cometh the Lord with a rout of his spearmen , and some dozen of captives , whom he had taken . 
I yeasaid that , and chid the beast , and then sang to him till he lay down and slept like a hound weary with hunting . 
Hah Otter , what didst thou say ? Otter laughed Quoth he , I said thus endeth the worst man in the world . 
Well done , lion tamer ! thou art no ill guest , and hast paid on the nail for meat , drink and lodging . 
But what shall we do now ? Then thou saidst 'Well , I suppose thou wilt be for slaying me . 
'Nay , said I , 'We will not slay thee at least not for this , nor now , nor without terms . 
Thou saidst 'Perchance then thou wilt let me go free , since this man was ill beloved yea , and he owed me a life . 
'Nay , nay , said I , 'not so fast , good beast lord . 
For we be two men all armed . 
Only I forewarn thee that I shall change the days of Utterbol . 
'Gramercy , butcher , saidst thou , 'I am not for thy flesh meat to day . 
Thereat we all laughed heartily . 
Yea , said Bull , So I went to lead away the lion when thou hadst bidden me return in an hours' wearing , when all should be ready for my Lordship . 
As to Agatha , when I had a little jeered her , I gave her rich gifts and good lands , and freedom , to boot her for her many stripes . 
And lo there , King's Son and Sweet Lady , the end of all my tale . 
Yea , quoth Otter , saving this , that even already thou has raised up Utterbol from Hell to Earth , and yet meseemeth thou hast good will to raise it higher . 
Bull reddened at his word , and said Tush , man ! praise the day when the sun has set . 
We shall do no less , said Ralph and Ursula spake in like wise . 
So they talked together merrily a while longer , till night began to grow old , and then went to their chambers in all content and good liking . 
CHAPTER They Ride From Vale Turris . 
Their captain he saw , a big man all armed in steel , but himseemed that he knew his face under his sallet , and presently saw that it was Redhead . 
Although , forsooth , there was guile behind it . 
Yet whereas I wotted nothing thereof , which I will pray thee to believe , and whereas thou hast the gain of all , I deem thou mayst pardon me . 
Said Ralph Thou hast what pardon of me thou needest so be content . 
For the rest , little need is there to ask if thou thrivest , for I behold thee glad and well honoured . 
So he smiled kindly on him and nodded , and went back with Bull into the Tower . 
Bull grew somewhat pensive and said Yea , thou meanest that thou mayest come back and find me no longer here . 
Yet if thou findest but my grave mound , yet mayhappen thou shalt come on something said or sung of me , which shall please thee . 
For I will tell thee , that thou hast changed my conditions how , I wot not . 
Thy word is good , said Ralph , yet I meant not that never should I come to Utterbol if I looked not to find thee living there . 
Bull smiled on him as though he loved him , and said This is well spoken I shall look to see thee before I die . 
Then said Ursula Lord of Utterbol , this also thou mayst think on , that it is no further from Utterbol to Upmeads than from Upmeads to Utterbol . 
Thus were they fain of each other , and Ralph saw how Bull's heart was grown big , and he rejoiced thereat . 
But anon he arose and said Now , Lord , we ask leave to depart for the way is long , and mayhappen my kindred now lack a man's helping . 
In any case , he hath his kin and long descent full often in his mouth , while I am but a gangrel body . 
Howbeit it is all one , whereas whatso he or Otter bid any man to do , he doeth it , but my bidding may be questioned at whiles . 
Ralph laughed And better will they do , as thou deemest give thee Agatha , to wit ? Yea , fair sir , quoth Redhead . 
No great gift , that seemeth to me , for thy valiancy , said Ralph she is guileful enough and loose enough for a worse man than thee . 
Lord , said Redhead , even of her thou shalt say what pleaseth thee but no other man shall say of her what pleaseth me not . 
But Ralph said Nay , my friend , I meant no harm , but I was wondering what had befallen to bring you two so close together . 
It was fear and pain , and the helping of each other that wrought it , said Redhead . 
of my flight from Utterbol . 
So that when he came home , and found thee gone , lady , he did indeed deem that thy flight was of Agatha's contrivance . 
told him a made up tale how all was done by the spells of Agatha . 
Well , as to my tale of Agatha . 
And at last the fear so mounted into his head that he made peace with her , and even craved forgiveness of her and gave her gifts . 
might well see that she deemed she owed him a day in harvest . 
As for me , he heeded me naught , and I lay low all I might . 
And in any wise we wore the time till the great day of deliverance . 
Therewith dropped the talk about Agatha , when they had bidden him all luck in his life . 
Forsooth , they were fain of his words , and of his ways withal . 
CHAPTER Of Their Riding the Waste , and of a Battle Thereon They slept in no house that night nor for many nights after for they were now fairly on the waste . 
Victual and drink failed them not , for they bore what they needed on sumpter horses , and shot some venison on the way withal . 
But on a time , the fifth day of their journey , they saw , in the morning , spears not a few standing up against a thicket side in the offing . 
Redhead looked under the sharp of his hand , and laughed as though he were glad , and said I know not clearly what these may be , but it looketh like war . 
Nay , said Ralph , thou mayst yet be apaid of a man's aid and if there be strokes on sale in the cheaping stead yonder , I will deal along with thee . 
Leave thy three men with the Lady , and let us on we shall soon be back . 
Nay once more , dear lord , quoth Ursula , I fear to be left alone of thee , and it is meet that thou free me from fear . 
I will ride with you , but three horse lengths behind , so as not to hinder you . 
I have been worse bestead than this shall be . 
Do on thy sallet , my lord and thou , Michael a green shake out the Bull and thou , our Noise , blow a point of war that they may be warned . 
This Ralph saw not , for he followed far in the chase , and was coming back somewhat slowly along with Redhead , who was hurt , but not sorely . 
So therewith he kissed her , and embraced her , and was glad . 
The Utterbol Riders had slain sixteen of their foemen for they took none to mercy , and four of their band were slain outright , and six hurt , but not grievously . 
So they tarried awhile on the field of deed to rest them and tend their wounded men , and so rode on again heedfully . 
But Redhead spake It is good to see thee tilting , King's Son . 
I doubt me I shall never learn thy downright thrust . 
Dost thou remember how sorry a job I made of it , when we met in the lists at Vale Turris that other day ? Yea , yea , said Ralph . 
Thou were best let that flea stick on the wall . 
For to day , at least , I have seen thee play at sharps deftly enough . 
Quoth Redhead Lord , it is naught , a five minutes' scramble . 
Warrior like and wisely thou speakest , said Ralph and whoever thou servest thou shalt serve well . 
And now once more I would it were me . 
Redhead shook his head at that word , and said I would it might be so but it will not be so as now . 
Forth on they rode , and slept in a wood that night , keeping good watch but saw no more of the Black Riders for that time . 
Sweetling , said Ralph , this mayst thou do and grieve no man , not even for a little . 
For lo you ! the captain is staying the sumpter beasts , and it is his mind , belike , that we shall sleep in yonder wood to night . 
So there on the field of his ancient grief they rested that night in all love and content . 
So they rode to the hostel , and gat them victual , and rested in peace that night . 
But to the King hast thou no need to go , save he send for thee , whereas thou art not come hither to chaffer , and he needeth not men of war . 
I had little to do with Goldburg till our lord conquered Utterbol . 
Lo here the host ! he may tell thee the tale thereof . 
Well , she is gone so that we wot not whether she be living or dead . 
For so it is that in the early spring , somewhat more than a year ago that is , one morning when folk arose , the Queen's place was empty . 
Riding and running there was about and about , but none the more was she found . 
Forsooth as time wore , tales were told of what wise she left us , and why but she was gone . 
But her women and those that knew her best , deemed that whatso she were , she had slain herself , as they thought , for some unhappiness of love . 
For indeed she had long gone about sad and distraught , though she neither wept , nor would say one word of her sorrow , whatsoever it might be . 
But , fair sir , since thou art a stranger , and art presently departing from our city , I will tell thee a thing . 
He yeasaid her asking , partly because of her gold , partly that he feared her , deeming her to be of the fairy . 
that a golden shoe all begemmed came out from under gown hem and that the said hem was broidered thickly with pearl and jewels . 
But for my part I deem the woman to have been none other than the Queen . 
Ralph heard and pondered , and was exceeding sorry , and more had he been but for the joyousness which came of the Water of the Well . 
Howbeit he might not amend it for even were he to seek for the Queen and find her , it might well be worse than letting it be . 
CHAPTER They Come to Cheaping Knowe Once More . 
But on the morrow Redhead departed from Goldburg with his men , and he loth to depart , and they gave him farewell lovingly . 
Thereafter Ralph's new men came to him in the hostelry , and he feasted them and did well to them , so that they praised him much . 
Then he gat him victuals and sumpter horses for the journey , and bought good store of bows and arrows withal . 
Furthermore he took heed to Redhead's word and bought a goodly gift of silver vessel and fine cloth for the King of Cheaping Knowe . 
On the morrow Ralph went up to the King's Castle with but three men unweaponed bearing the gift which he had got for the King . 
Albeit he sent not away his men at arms till he should know how the King was minded towards him . 
Being come to the King , he made his obeisance to him , and craved his good will and leave to wage men at arms to bring him through the mountains . 
The King was a tall man , a proper man of war long legged , black bearded , and fierce eyed . 
Where is thine own land ? said the King , stretching out his legs and lying back in his chair . 
West away , lord , many a mile , said Ralph . 
Yea , quoth the King , and how far didst thou go beyond the mountains ? As far as Utterbol ? Said Ralph Yet further , but not to Utterbol . 
As he spake , he drew himself up , and his brows were knit a little , but his eyes sparkled from under them , and his cheleks were bright and rosy . 
Give me that or nothing . 
The King scowled , but he spake This is indeed a little gift of thee to take yet to none else save thee had I given it . 
Therewith he spake to a man beside him and said Go thou , set them free , and if any hurt hath befallen them thy life shall answer for it . 
And he turned to his men , and bade them bright forth the gift of Goldburg and open it before the King and they did so . 
So they arrayed them for departure on the morrow , and were to ride out of gates about mid morning . 
Said Ralph Ask and fear not for if I may trust thee I already owe thee a reward . 
And I will tell thee that by hook or by crook the King already knoweth somewhat of thee and of the woman who is in thy company . 
Therewith he told the new comer what he was , and the two men of Swevenham made joy of each other . 
But Michael rode in the company new clad , and with his head and face all hidden in a wide sallet . 
Thereabout Ralph deemed that he saw weapons glittering ahead , but was not sure , for as clear sighted as he was . 
Well , said Ralph , then will they be too many for us so now will I ride ahead and see if we may have peace . 
Said the Sage , Yea , but be wary , for thou hast to do with the guileful . 
Then Ralph rode on alone till he was come within hail of those waylayers . 
Wherefore , yield ye ! Quoth Ralph Unto whom then shall I yield me ? Said the other To the men of the King of Cheaping Knowe . 
Ralph laughed for by this time he knew the voice of the King , yea , and the face of him under his sallet . 
But the King cried out in a loud harsh voice . 
Thou , young man , beware thou ! and try not thy luck overmuch . 
We are as many as these trees , and thou canst not prevail over us . 
Go thy ways free , and leave me what thou canst not help leaving . 
Yea , fool , cried Ralph , and what wilt thou do with these two ? Said the King The traitor I will flay , and the woman I will bed . 
Ralph drave on sword in hand , crying out , Home , home to Upmeads ! and anon was amidst of the foe smiting on either hand . 
Short was the tale , for in a few minutes there were no men of the foe together save those that were fleeing down the road to Cheaping Knowe . 
Ralph would not suffer his men to follow the chase , for he wotted not with whom he might have to deal besides the King's men . 
Then cried out Ralph If ye be of the kindred of the Bull , ye will belike be my friends rather than my foes . 
Or have ye heard tell of Ralph of Upmeads ? Now let your captain come forth and speak with me . 
and a great gold ring on his arm . 
Then Ralph thrust his sword back into the sheath , and his folk handled their weapons peaceably , while Ralph hailed the new comer as Lord or Duke of the Bulls . 
Yet forsooth , now that I look on thee , I may say that scarce did I need token to tell me that thou wert the very man . 
For I can see thee , that thou art of great honour and worship , and thou didst ride boldly against the foemen when thou knewest not that we had waylaid thy waylayers . 
So Ralph yeasaid his bidding without more words . 
But the Sage of Swevenham spoke to them and bade them fear nought . 
For , said he , so far as we go , who are now their friends , there is no guile in these men . 
But ye be welcome so now let us to the road , for the day weareth . 
So the tribesmen gat them into order , and their Duke went on the left side of Ralph , while Ursula rode on his right hand . 
The Duke and all his men were afoot , but they went easily and swiftly , as wolves trot . 
As for the slain of the waylayers , of whom there were some threescore , the Bull captain would do nought but let them lie on the road . 
For , said he , there be wolves and lynxes enough in the wood , and the ravens of the uplands , and the kites shall soon scent the carrion . 
They shall have burial soon enough . 
Neither will we meddle with it nay , not so much as to hang the felon King's head at thy saddle bow , lord . 
It was indeed no stronghold , save that it was not easy to find , and that the way thither was well defensible were foemen to try it . 
Their women were mostly somewhat more than comely , smiling , kind of speech , but not suffering the caresses of aliens . 
And they showed the wayfarers their manner of hunting , both of the hart and the boar , and of wild bulls also . 
, for sorely he desired the fields of Upmeads and his father's house . 
On this journey naught befell to tell of , and they all came down safe into the plain . 
There the Goldburg men took their wage , and bidding farewell , turned back with the wild men , praising Ralph much for his frankness and open hand . 
As for the wild men , they exceeded in their sorrow for the parting , and many of them wept and howled as though they had seen him die before their faces . 
Now they two were riding on somewhat ahead of the others , so Ralph turned to Ursula , and asked what ailed her . 
She smiled on him and said A simple sickness . 
I am drawing nigh to thy home , and I am ashamed . 
Beyond the mountains , who knew what and whence I was ? I was fair , and for a woman not unvaliant , and that was enough . 
He laughed gaily and said What ! is it all so soon forgotten , our deeds beyond the Mountains ? Belike because we had no minstrel to rhyme it for us . 
Nor were we wedded in the wilderness far from our own folk . 
Nor didst thou deliver me from the venom of the Dry Tree . 
Thereby was a poor hostel , where they stayed and rested for the night , because evening was at hand . 
What wilt thou add to it as now ? This , quoth the Sage , that I will leave thee no more till thou biddest me go from thee . 
Was this word needful ? Ralph reached his hand to him and said It is well and more but the road hence to Upmeads may yet be a rough one . 
Yea , said the Sage , yet shall we come thither all living , unless my sight now faileth . 
Therewith were they merry , and fain of each other , and the evening wore amidst great content . 
Then came the Sage to Michael as he sat upon his horse , a stalwarth man of some forty winters , and said Michael a dale , reach me thine hand . 
Said Ralph His coming shall be a joy to us , how pleasant soever our life may be otherwise . 
Farewell , Michael ! all good go with thee for thine wholesome redes . 
So then Michael gave them farewell , and rode his ways to Swevenham , going hastily , as one who should hurry away from a grief . 
Ralph did as he was bidden , and without more ado they went on all toward that hostelry where Ralph had erst borne the burden of grief . 
Then again he said Thou doest well to hide her loveliness in war weed even in this town of peace . 
Ursula reddened , and Richard laughed and said Well , it is a fair rose which thou hast brought from east away . 
There will be never another couple in these parts like you . 
Forsooth , he would make a poor bargain in buying any kingship that I wot of , so rich he is , yea , and mighty withal . 
But Richard spake Short is the tale to tell . 
I slew him in shock of battle , and his men craved peace of the good town . 
Many were glad of his death , and few sorrowed for it for , fair as his young body was , he was a cruel tyrant . 
The Sage laughed and said Yea , somewhat like am I yet to myself of forty years ago . 
Good is thy memory , greybeard . 
Richard looked on her and nothing else for a while then he walked about the chamber uneasily , now speaking with the Sage , now with Ursula , but never with Ralph . 
She laughed merrily and said Sir nurse , take thy bantling and cosset him in whatso corner thou wilt , and I will turn away mine eyes from thy caresses . 
Yea , said Richard , but this I say , that she is without a blemish . 
Did ye drink of the Well together ? Yea , surely , said Ralph . 
Said Richard And is this woman of a good heart ? Is she valiant ? Yea , yea , said Ralph , flushing red . 
As valiant as was that other ? said Richard . 
Said Ralph How may I tell , unless they were tried in one way ? Yet Richard spake Are ye wedded ? Even so , said Ralph . 
Dost thou deem her true ? said Richard . 
Truer than myself , said Ralph , in a voice which was somewhat angry . 
But thou art grown wiser and mightier by far so that thou art another manner man than thou wert , and the Master of Masters maybe . 
The world is wide , and now I deem that thou holdest the glory thereof in the hollow of thine hand . 
Now had Ralph sat quiet while this talk was going on , and as if he heeded not , and his eyes were set as if he were beholding something far away . 
O tarry not , said Ursula nay , not for the passing of the night but make this hour the sunrise , and begone by the clear of the moon . 
And bid him come see me at Upmeads , and to ride with a good band of proper men , for eschewing the dangers of the road . 
Then spake Richard I shall tell Lord Blaise neither more nor less than thou mayst tell him thyself for think it not that thou shalt go without me . 
So shall we go forth ere it be known that the brother of the Lord of the Porte is abiding at the Lamb . 
For verily I see that the Lady hath spoken truth and it is like that she is forseeing , even as thou hast grown to be . 
And now I bethink me I might lightly get me a score of men to ride with us , whereas we may meet men worse than ourselves on the way . 
To those others , and chiefly to Ursula , it seemed that now he spoke strongly and joyously , like to a king and a captain of men . 
Richard did his bidding , and was swift in dealing with the messengers . 
But the Sage said Ralph , my son , since ye have lost one man at arms , and have gotten but this golden angel in his stead , I may better that . 
I prithee bid thy man Richard find me armour and weapons that I may amend the shard in thy company . 
Thou shalt find me no feeble man when we come to push of staves . 
So rode they without tarrying into Westgate and came to the Bar , and speedily was the gate opened to them and anon were they on the moonlit road outside of Whitwall . 
Forsooth , said Richard , by the wildwood ye may ride shorter , if ye know it as I do . 
Quoth the Sage Yea , or as I do . 
Hear a wonder ! that two men of Swevenham know the wilds more than twenty miles from their own thorp . 
Said the Sage In any case we have amongst us lore enough to hoodwink them if they be foes so that we shall pass easily . 
Naught of this need we fear . 
Yea , said Ralph , it is well in all wise . 
So there they abode and rested that night . 
They saw but few houses , and those small and poor . 
He spake this out loud , but Richard nodded his head to him , as if he would say Yea , so it is but hold thy peace . 
But Ralph knew that Ursula had come up behind him , and , still looking at Richard , he put his open hand aback toward her , and her hand fell into it . 
Then were they ashamed , and shook their reins to hasten after him . 
Tall he was above the stature of most men awful of aspect , and his eyes glittered from his dark brown face amidst of his shockhead of the colour of rain spoilt hay . 
What did they there , Lord God ? and he caught thee to slay thee but him have I slain . 
Nevertheless , it is a terrible and evil place let us go hence . 
Child of Upmeads , drive not on so hard it will not be long . 
For thou and Richard the Red are naught lighthanded . 
Yet am I indeed where my fool's brains told me I was . 
Then he lay back again , and turned his head as well as he could toward the cavern in the cliff . 
But , young man , this I will say if I can . 
Thou fleddest from her and forgattest her . 
I came to her and forgat all but her yea , my very life I forgat . 
Again he spoke , and his voice was weaker yet Kneel down by me , or I may not tell thee what I would my voice dieth before me . 
Believe it , and do so much for me that I may lie by her side when I am dead , who never lay by her living . 
For into the cave I durst go never . 
I am sorry that I have slain thee forgive it me . 
A mocking smile came into the dying man's eyes , and he spake whispering Richard it was not thou . 
The Sage rose up from his side and said Ye may now bury this man as he craved of thee , for he is dead . 
Thus hath thy wish been accomplished for this was the great champion and duke of the men of the Dry Tree . 
Indeed it is a pity of him that he is dead , for as terrible as he was to his foes , he was no ill man . 
Spake Richard Now is the riddle areded of the wild man and the mighty giant that haunted these passes . 
We have played together or now , in days long past , he and I and ever he came to his above . 
He was a wise man and a prudent that he should have become a wild man . 
It is great pity of him . 
But Ralph took his knight's cloak of red scarlet , and they lapped the wild man therein , who had once been a champion beworshipped . 
But first Ursula sheared his hair and his beard , till the face of him came back again , grave , and somewhat mocking , as Ralph remembered it , time was . 
Then he lifted up his face as one awaking , shook his rein , and rode after the others down the long water . 
So they turned from the water anon , and rode the woodland ways , and lay that night by a stream that ran west . 
But though this fair woman may be her sister , it is not she . 
Said Ralph Old man , canst thou feel sorrow , and canst thou bear it ? The carle shook his head . 
I wot not , said he , I fear thy words . 
Said Ralph It were naught to say less than the truth and this is the very truth , that thou shalt never see thy Lady any more . 
I was the last living man that ever saw her alive . 
Yet forsooth it was rather the carles than the queans who made all this lamentation . 
At last the old man spake Fair sir , ye have brought us heavy tidings , and we know not how to ask you to tell us more of the tale . 
Yet if thou might'st but tell us how the Lady died ? Woe's me for the word ! Said Ralph She was slain with the sword . 
But the elder spake again Tell me who it was that slew her , for surely shall I slay him , or die in the pain else . 
Said Ralph Be content , thou mayst not slay him he was a great and mighty man , a baron who bore a golden sun on a blue field . 
Thou mayst not slay him . 
Yea , said the old man , but I will , or he me . 
Live in peace , said Ralph , for I slew him then and there . 
The old man held his peace a while , and then he said I know the man , for he hath been here aforetime , and not so long ago . 
But if he be dead , he hath a brother yet , an exceeding mighty man he will be coming here to vex us and minish us . 
Said Ralph He will not stir from where he lies till Earth's bones be broken , for my sword lay in his body yesterday . 
The old man stood silent again , and the other carles thronged him but the woman stood aloof staring on Ralph . 
But we see in thee , that she hath loved thee and blessed thee , and thou hast slain her slayer and his kindred . 
And we see of thee also that thou art a good lord . 
Now we pray thee by thy fathers not to naysay us , so sore as thou hast made our hearts . 
Also we see about thy neck the same like pair of beads which our Lady was wont to bear , and we deem that ye were in one tale together . 
And what did she for you ? said the Sage . 
And therewith the old man fell a weeping again . 
The Sage held his peace , and Ralph still kept silence and now of these men all the younger ones had their eyes upon Ursula . 
Yet , if ye will it in sooth , I will be called your Lord , in memory of your Lady whom ye shall not see again . 
Now is all said , my masters , and I pray you let us depart in peace for time presses . 
cried out joyfully Hail to our lord ! and long life to our helper . 
But the old man laid his hand on his knee and said Lord , wouldst thou not light down and enter thy Castle for none hath more right there now than thou . 
And else would we have slain him , since he slew our Lady . 
Amongst other matters they told how a hermit , a holy man , had come to dwell in the wood , in a clearing but a little way thence toward the north west . 
But when Ralph asked if he dwelt on the way to the ford of the Swelling Flood , they knew not what he meant for the wood was to them as a wall . 
They brought also bowls and pitchers of wine that was good and strong , and cider of their orchards , and called many a health to the new Lord and his kindred . 
But it is unmeet to forget old friends . 
Why dost thou not hail me ? Because I know thee not , good fellow , said Ralph . 
But even as he spoke , he looked into the man's face again , and cried out By St . 
Nicholas ! but it is Roger of the Ropewalk . 
But look you , fellow , if I have somewhat filled out , thou , who wast always black muzzled , art now become as hairy as a wodehouse . 
What dost thou in the wilds ? Said Roger Did they not tell thee of a hermit new come to these shaws ? Yea , said Ralph . 
I am that holy man , quoth Roger , grinning not that I am so much of that , either . 
I have not come hither to pray or fast overmuch , but to rest my soul and be out of the way of men . 
For all things have changed since my Lady passed away . 
He looked about , and saw Ursula just rising up from the ground and the Sage stirring , while Richard yet hugged his bracken bed , snoring . 
But there be others as fair while the like to our Lady that was , there is none such . 
Roger said Yea , I am the hermit and the holy man and withal I have a thing to hear and a thing to tell . 
So to horse , fair folk . 
He brought them in , and bade them sit on such stools or bundles of stuff as were there . 
my Lady died , I must needs say , for thy sake . 
'All' is a big word , said Ralph , but I will tell thee somewhat . 
Roger scowled somewhat on Ursula but he said Lord and master , let not that fly trouble thy lip . 
And I do thee to wit that the telling of thy tale shall unfreeze mine so tarry not , if ye be in haste to be gone , but let thy tongue wag . 
, and of the journey to the Well , and what betid there and since , and of the death of the Champion of the Dry Tree . 
Said Ralph And shall I have any hindrance from them of the Dry Tree ? Roger made as if he were swallowing down something , and answered Nay , none . 
And the folk of Higham by the Way , and the Brethren and their Abbot ? said Ralph . 
But this shall be at thine own will to say yea or nay to them . 
But for the rest on this side of the shepherds' country ye will pass by peaceful folk . 
In sooth it seemed of them that they were both of stouter fashion , and defter than women are wont to be . 
So it befell that the host of the Burg came up with the Champions on the eve of a summer day when there were yet three hours of daylight . 
But the Burg abiders were not like to sit down under their foil . 
Another host they sent against the Wheat wearers , not so huge , as well arrayed and wise in war . 
Neither did they waste the land much for the riders of the Dry Tree followed hard at heel , and cut off all who tarried , or strayed from the main battle . 
So that in an hour's space the pride and the estate of the Burg of the Four Friths was utterly fallen . 
As for them of the Burg , the battle and chase over , no more were slain , save that certain of the great ones were made shorter by the head . 
Proudly and with a stout countenance they went , for now was their valour come again to them . 
Meantime , said Ralph , what has betid to the Fellowship of the Dry Tree ? for I see that thou hast some grief on thy mind because of them . 
Here on earth , all endeth . 
But where is the Fellowship ? said Ralph . 
It is scattered abroad , quoth Roger . 
At last he said Well , so be it for this adventure . 
Only I say not that I shall give up this hermitage and my holiness for ever . 
Come thou aside , wise man of Swevenham , and I shall tell thee wherefore . 
And now we were best get to horse for what with meat and minstrelsy , we have worn away the day till it wants but a little of noon . 
Go tell thy lord that I am ready . 
But the wayfarers were not unchallenged at the gate , for a stout man at arms stayed them and said Ye ride somewhat late , friends . 
What are ye ? Quoth Ralph We be peaceful wayfarers save to them that would fall on us , and we seek toward Upmeads . 
Well if ye will go to the Flower de Luce and abide there this night , ye shall have a let pass to morn betimes . 
And methinks ye may hope to wend out a gates this time otherwise than thou didest before . 
So mayhappen , said she , smiling , none of us shall seek to the Well until we have worn our present bliss a little threadbare . 
And therewith he fell to striding up and down the hall , while the two maidens sat gazing on him with gleaming eyes and flushed cheeks . 
Therewith was Ralph well pleased , and they sat talking there in good fellowship till the night was somewhat worn , and all men fared to bed . 
he stickled not to give some of us leave to look on the hand play with thee . 
But soft , my Lord ! abound not in thanks as yet , till I tell thee . 
and would strike a bargain with thee . 
Yea , said Ralph , smiling , I partly guess what like the bargain is but say thou . 
Now Roger comes to Ralph and tells him that he deems his host hath come to the last man . 
Fear not , Richard , said Ralph , we shall have enough . 
But at last they learned the trick , and were wont to fetch a compass round about Grey Goose Thicket as it hight amongst us . 
In a month's time that may betide , but not yet not yet . 
Said Ralph If hope play me not false , I look to gather some stout carles of the Shepherd Country . 
Yea , said Roger , but I shall tell thee that they have been at whiles unfriends of the Dry Tree . 
Said Ralph I think they will be friends unto me . 
Then it shall do well , said Roger , for they be good in a fray . 
So talked they as they rode , but ever Roger would give no heed to Ursula . 
but made as if he wotted not that she was there , though ever and anon Ralph would be turning back to speak to her and help her through the passes . 
At the foot of the ridge was a thorp of white houses thatched with straw scattered over a good piece of the plain . 
This is a fool's deed . 
For like all strong thieves , they love the wood . 
Roger laughed Yea , as we did , friend Michael , when we were thieves whereas now we be lords and gentlemen . 
He made much of her and said Yet belike a Friend of the Well may overcome this also and withal the hall shall be far other to day when it was . 
So then they gat to horse again and rode into the thorp , where men and women stood about to behold them , and made them humble reverence as they passed by . 
So I escaped them for that moment . 
And now I wonder what we shall find in the hall when we come in thither . 
And she grew paler as she spake . 
Then Ralph comforted her and trimmed his countenance to a look of mirth , but inwardly he was ill at ease . 
What ! here is naught to hurt thee ! this is naught beside the perils of the desert , and the slaves and the evil lord of Utterbol . 
Yea , she said , but meseemeth I loved thee not so sore as now I do . 
Roger , thou lovest me little , meseemeth , though if I did less than I do , I should do against the will of thy Lady that was Queen in this hall . 
A rumour there is that she walketh , and it may be so yet in the summer noon ye need not look to see her . 
Ralph said coldly Roger , let us be done with minstrels' tales lead me to the place where the oath is to be sworn , for time presses . 
Richard started thereat and half drew his sword but the Sage put his hand upon the hilts , and said It is naught , let the edges lie quiet . 
But thereafter cried Roger from the dais This is the token that the men of the Dry Tree are met for matters of import thus is the Mote hallowed . 
Then Ralph took Ursula's hand again , and went up the hall calmly and proudly , and the champions followed with Richard and the Sage . 
Is this rightly sworn , Champions ? Said Stephen a Hurst It is sworn well and knightly , and now cometh our oath . 
Nay , said Ralph , I had no mind to drive a bargain with you your deeds shall prove you and I fear not for your doughtiness . 
Said Stephen Yea , Lord but he bade us swear to thee . 
Reach me thy sword , I pray thee . 
So help us God and Allhallows ! And therewith he gave the sword to the others , and each man of them kissed it as he had . 
But Ralph said Champions , for this oath I thank you all heartily . 
He made an end and Ralph kept silence and pondered the matter . 
Save us , we pray you , for we are ill weaponed and men of peace . 
We are high up here , and we shall see all as clearly as in a good mirror . 
Hast thou shut the gates , carle ? Yea , Lord Roger , quoth he , and there are some fifty of us together down in the base court . 
Thou Stephen , thou Roger , what is to hand ? Is your Captain wont to give a gift and take it back . 
and somewhat more with it ? Stephen looked abashed at his word and Roger hung his head again . 
But therewith the Sage drew up to them and said Be not dismayed , Lord Ralph . 
And Roger , though in a somewhat surly voice , said the like . 
And without more words he went up to Ursula and took her hand and went out of the hall , and down the rock cut stair , and all they with him . 
And when they came into the Base court , Ralph spoke to the carles of the thorp , who stood huddled together sore afeard , and said Throw open the gates . 
But , sweetheart , how dear and sweet is this sunlit greensward after yonder grim hold . 
Said the Captain Thou wilt marvel that I have ridden after thee on the spur so here is the tale shortly . 
All we of Upmeads wot of it , said Ralph . 
Now whereas I know that thou art of Upmeads , and also what thou art , and what thou hast done , I have ridden after thee to tell thee what is toward . 
But if thou deemest I have brought thee all these riders it is not wholly so . 
Yea , art thou for Higham , fair sir ? said the Captain . 
And yet I must say this , that I wot not why ye and these others are become to me , who am alien to you , as very brothers . 
But as they went , Ralph turned to Ursula and said And now belike shall we see Bourton Abbas once more , and the house where first I saw thee . 
And O how sweet thou wert ! And I was so happy and so young . 
That were naught so ill . 
Ah , she said , look round on thy men , and think of the might of war that is in them , and think of the deeds to come . 
But O how I would that these next few days were worn away , and we yet alive for a long while . 
And amongst these were bowmen who bended their bows on Ralph and his company . 
Ralph looked a moment , and then reached down his arms to embrace him , and kissed his face for lo ! it was his own brother Hugh . 
Withal he whispered in his ear Get thee behind us , Hugh , if thou wilt come with us , lad . 
Be he the brother of whom he will , said the knight , he was none the less our sworn man . 
Said the knight , Where were your bows , then ? Said a man They were pressing so hard on the barrier , that we could not draw a bowstring . 
Thou hast stolen our man with not a word on it . 
Fair sir , said Ralph , meseemeth thou makest more words than enough about it . 
Shall I buy my brother of thee , then ? I have a good few pieces in my pouch . 
The captain shook his head angrily . 
Now have I mind to issue out and fall upon you for ye shall be evil guests in my Lord Abbot's lands . 
Therewith he turned his horse with Richard and Stephen and came to his own men . 
The sergeants had gotten a horse for Hugh , and by Ralph's bidding he rode beside him as they went their ways , and the two brethren talked together lovingly . 
CHAPTER Talk Between Those Two Brethren Ralph asked Hugh first if he wotted aught of Gregory their brother . 
Hugh laughed and pointed to Higham , and said He is yonder . 
What has the change been ? said Ralph . 
, and they would whiles lift in the Abbot's lands when they had no merrier business on hand , and not seldom came to their above in their dealings with his men . 
Whereby , being cooped up in a narrow place , and with no deeds to hand to cheer their hearts withal , they are grown sour and churlish . 
Ralph , said Hugh , thou must think of this once more , that the Dry Tree is no good let pass to flourish in honest men's faces specialiter if they be monks . 
Amongst the brothers of Higham the tale goes that those Champions have made covenant with the devil to come to their above whensoever they be not more than one to five . 
dressed up in women's flesh and fair flesh also , meseemeth . 
Hah ! what sayest thou ? I say , Hugh , quoth Ralph angrily , that thou art a fool to go about with a budget of slanderous old wives' tales . 
Be not so wroth , little lord , or I shall be asking thee tales of marvels also . 
Ralph pondered a while , and then he said Brother , hast thou any tidings of Upmeads , or that these Burgers have gone down thither ? God forbid ! said Hugh . 
Nay , I have had no tidings of Upmeads since I was fool enough to leave it . 
Three months I sat in prison for getting me a broken head in a quarrel that concerned me not . 
Six months was I besieged in a town whither naught led me but ill luck . 
Two days I wore in running thence , having scaled the wall and swam the ditch in the night . 
Thence again I went by night and cloud . 
Well , brother , said Ralph , all that shall be amended , and thou shalt back to Upmeads with me . 
Yet wert thou to amend thyself somewhat , it might not be ill . 
Quoth Hugh It shall be tried , brother . 
But may I ask thee somewhat ? Said Ralph Ask on . 
, for thou art a well shapen lad , little lord , and carriest a sweet tongue in thy mouth . 
But tell me , what is she ? Brother , said Ralph kindly , she is my wife . 
I kiss her hands , said Hugh but of what lineage is she ? She is my wife , said Ralph . 
Said Hugh That is , forsooth , a high dignity . 
Then shalt thou tell me how much changed I am from the stripling whom thou knewest in Upmeads a little while ago . 
Besides it was dull in there , and I must needs try to win a little mirth out of kith and kin . 
So be it , lad , quoth Ralph kindly , thou didst ask and I told , and all is said . 
Yet forsooth , said Hugh , thou hast given me marvel for marvel , brother . 
Even so , said Ralph , and hereafter I will tell thee more when we sit safe by the wine at Upmeads . 
But thou , ancient man , show our sergeants where our riders shall lie to night , and what they shall do with their horses . 
So the elders marshalled the little host to their abodes for that night , lodging the more part of them in a big barn on the western outskirt of the thorp . 
So he and Ursula and his fellows went to bed and slept peacefully for the first hours of the night . 
What like is he ? said Ralph . 
Said Roger He is an old man , but a tough one however , I have got his weapons from him . 
Bring him in , said Ralph , and he shall have his say . 
Said the man , I were as lief have these others away . 
So be it , said Ralph depart for a little while , friends . 
So I will begin my tale . 
Ralph looked on him and deemed he had seen him before , but could not altogether call his visage to mind so he held his peace and the man went on . 
They are one which were twain , The Tree bloometh again , And the Well spring hath come From the waste to the home . 
Ralph nodded to him kindly , for now he remembered the carle , though he had seen him but that once when he rode the Greenway across the downs to Higham . 
Meseems I see him riding toward Higham , but those dastards will not open gate to him , of that be sure . 
There be Burgers otherwhere , housed in no strong castle , but wending the road toward the fair greensward of Upmeads . 
If thou delay to go look on them , then shall thy work be to begin again amid sorrow of heart and loss that may not be remedied . 
Hast thou heard me , lord ? Yea , verily , said Ralph , and at sunrise shall we be in the saddle to ride straight to Upmeads . 
For I know thee , friend . 
Hold a while , said the carle , for meseemeth I know thee also . 
Therefore bid him this also . 
And then do thy will , O Friend of the Well . 
And it seems to me that there shall the mote be hallowed , though it may be not before nightfall . 
Thence shall we wend the dear ways I know into the land where I was born and the folk amongst whom I shall die . 
Nicholas and All Hallows do as they will with us . 
Thou needest not to fear it . 
Sooth to say , I deemed I knew thee when I first set eyes on thee again . 
I looked not to see thee more though I spoke to thee words at that time which came from my heart , almost without my will . 
Though it is but a little while ago , thou hast changed much since then , and hast got another sort of look in the eyes than then they had . 
Nay , nay , said he laughing , not when thou lookest on me so frankly and kindly that is like thy look when we passed Thirly about . 
Yea , I see the fashion of it one look is for thy friends , another for thy foes . 
God be praised for both . 
And now I am full , I will go look on thy wife . 
So he went up to the bed and stood over Ursula , while she , who was not fully awake , smiled up into his face . 
Then Ralph bade old Giles sleep for an hour , and went forth and called Roger and Richard and went to the great barn . 
The spearmen of the thorp did not fail them , and numbered twenty and three all told . 
Giles had a horse given him and rode the way by Ralph . 
They rode up and down the hills and dales , but went across country and not by the Greenway , for thuswise the road was shorter . 
So Ralph , who was riding first with Giles , bid all stay and let the crown of the ridge cover them . 
So did they , and Giles gat off his horse and crept on to the top of the ridge till he could see down to the dale below . 
Presently he came down again the old face of him puckered with mirth , and said softly to Ralph Did I not say thou wert lucky ? here is the first fruits thereof . 
Ride over the ridge , lord , at once , and ye shall have what there is of them as safe as a sheep in a penfold . 
sitting or lying about a cooking fire , or loitering here and there , with their horses standing behind them , and they mostly unhelmed . 
Ask them whence they be , lord . 
Ralph spake and said Whence and whither are ye , ye manslayers ? But no man of them answered . 
Then said Ralph Pass these murderers by the edge of the sword , Stephen unless some one of them will save his life and the life of his fellows by speaking . 
Wilt thou swear it by the edge of the blade ? said the man . 
Ralph drew forth his sword and said Lo then ! I swear it . 
We are men of the Burg whom these green coated thieves drave out of the Burg on an unlucky day . 
There is our story , lord . 
, do thy folk in these strongholds know of your purpose of falling upon Upmeads ? Nay , said the Burger . 
Said Ralph And will they know otherwise if ye do them not to wit ? Nay , again said the man . 
Said Ralph Are thy folk already in Upmeads ? Nay , said the captive , but by this time they will be on the road thither . 
How many all told ? said Ralph The man reddened and stammered A thousand two two thousand A thousand , lord , said he . 
Get thy sword ready , Stephen , said Ralph . 
How many , on thy life , Burger ? Two thousand , lord , said the man . 
And how many do ye look to have from Higham land ? Said the Burger , Somewhat more than a thousand . 
Withal he looked uneasily at his fellows , some of whom were scowling on him felly . 
But Ralph cried out Put up your swords , Champions ! Stephen slew yonder man for slaying his fellow , who was under my ward , and that was but his due . 
But I have given life to these others , and so it must be held to . 
Tie their hands behind them and let us on to Bear Castle . 
For this tide brooks no delay . 
So they gat to horse , and the footmen from Garton mounted the horses of the slain Burgers , and had the charge of guarding the twenty that were left . 
So they rode off all of them toward Bear Castle , and shortly to say it , came within sight of its rampart two hours before noon . 
But now when they were come so nigh to the castle they saw a very stream of men setting that way , and winding up the hill to the rampart . 
There then is thine answer , lord . 
Indeed as he spoke came down on the wind the voice of a chant , sung by many folk , the words whereof he well remembered SMITE ASIDE AXE , O BEAR FATHER . 
And therewith rose up into the air a column of smoke intermingled with fire from each of the four corners of that stronghold of the Ancient Folk . 
Giles led him and his men into the north east corner of the castle , and there they gat off their horses and lay down on the grass awaiting what should betide . 
Said the Elder Wilt thou be our Captain , if we do according to thy bidding ? For thou needest not fear our failing thee . 
Yea verily , said Ralph . 
Said the Elder Ralph of Upmeads , wilt thou be our Captain as an alien and a hireling , or as a brother ? As a brother , quoth Ralph . 
And , ye kindred of the Shepherds , bear witness of his swearing . 
Once more all they that were there shouted . 
Now let any man speak against this if he will . 
None gainsaid him nay , all seemed well pleased . 
There then certain women brought victual and drink to them , and served the strangers first . 
There was not much armour of defence amongst them , but they were one and all stark carles and doughty . 
CHAPTER They Come to Wulstead Thus went they , and nought befell them to tell of till they came anigh the gates of Wulstead hard on sunset . 
Some of his company , and specially Roger and Stephen , would have letted him but he laughed and said , Why , lads , why ? these be friends . 
Yea , quoth Roger , but an arrow knoweth no kindred nor well willers have a care , lord . 
But now as for this one , I will be better mannered with her . 
Therewith he knelt down before Ursula , and kissed her feet , but reverently . 
But Clement stood with his head hanging down , and his face reddening . 
But now , Clement , hold up thine head and be a stout man of war , for thou seest that we are not alone . 
Yea , said Ralph , and how many be they ? Quoth Clement How many men may be amongst them I wot not , but I deem there be some two thousand devils . 
What ! said Ralph , have they fled from Upmeads , and left the High House empty ? I pray thee , Clement , bring me to them as speedily as may be . 
Verily , said Clement , they have fled , with many another , women and children and old men , who should but hinder the carles who have abided behind . 
Nicholas Longshanks is the leader of them down there , and the High House is their stronghold in a way though forsooth their stout heads and strong hands are better defence . 
For as for me , I have sworn it that I will not go one step back till I have seen my father and mother in their house of Upmeads . 
CHAPTER Ralph Sees His Father and Mother Again Thus came they into the market place of Wulstead nigh to Clement's house , and there the company stood in ordered ranks . 
Said Ralph , smiling Well , Ring of Wulstead , since thou givest leave I will e'en take it , nor needest thou give me any guide to the House of St . 
Austin , for I know it well . 
Also to morrow thou wilt have more to do since thou art a captain , and I but a single varlet . 
And he smiled a little sourly on Ralph who heeded it little , but took Ursula's hand and went his way with her . 
Him they knew not , for he had somewhat cast down the visor of his helm but they looked eagerly on the fair lady and the goodly knight . 
And yet , forsooth , friend , I know not where to send thee to seek for peace , since Upmeads hath failed us . 
O son , how fair thou art ! Now do off thy sallet that I may see thee , thy face and thy curly head . 
So did he , smiling as one who loved her , and again she fell to kissing and clipping him . 
I deem thou wilt not leave us . 
But look , mother , and he took Ursula's hand , here is a daughter and a darling that I have brought back to thee , for this is my wedded wife . 
Then said King Peter Forsooth , son , she is a sweet and dainty creature . 
If there be a fairer than her , I wot not but none so fair have mine eyes looked on . 
Tell me whose daughter she is , and of what lineage ? And therewith he took her hand and kissed her . 
But Ursula said I am come of no earl or baron . 
Now I tell thee this that if my lord biddeth me go from him , I will depart but for the bidding of none else will I leave him . 
King Peter laughed and said Never will I bid thee depart Then he took her hand and said Sweetling , fair daughter , what is thy name ? Ursula , she said . 
Said he Ursula , thy palms are harder than be the hands of the dainty dames of the cities , but there is no churls' blood in thee meseemeth . 
It is told amongst us that that word is but another way of saying earl and that it meaneth a man . 
Then spoke Ralph Father and mother both , I may well thank thee and bless thee that your eyes look upon this half of me with kind eyes . 
And now I shall tell thee that for this woman , her heart is greater than a king's or a leader of folk . 
And meseemeth her palms have hardened with the labour of delivering me from many troubles . 
Then the Dame of Upmeads put her arms about Ursula's neck again , and bade her all welcome once more , with sweet words of darling and dear , and well beloved daughter . 
But King Peter said Son , thou hast not told me what thou are become and true it is that thou hast the look of a great one . 
Then smiled Ralph for love and happiness , and he said Father , I am thy child in the house and at the board , and that is for thine helping . 
And I am thy champion and the fierce warrior afield , and that also is for thine helping . 
Be of good cheer for thine house shall not wane , but wax . 
And all those four were full of joy and their hearts were raised aloft . 
And if it be thy will , I would leave the Lady my wife with my mother here at least till morrow morn . 
So the Prior gave him leave , loth though he were , and Ralph kissed his father and mother , and they blessed him . 
But Ursula said to him softly It is my meaning to go with thee down into Upmeads to morrow for who knoweth what may befall thee . 
Then he smiled upon her and went his ways down the hall and out a gates , while all men looked on him and did him worship . 
CHAPTER Ralph Holds Converse With Katherine His Gossip Ralph went straight from St . 
Austin's to Clement's house , and found much people about the door thereof , what of the townsmen , what of the men of his own host . 
All men arose when Ralph entered but he looked around , and could see nought of his gossip amongst them . 
When he had thus spoken they all cried hail to him , and anon arose and went their ways . 
So when all this business was over , they turned about and came their ways home to Clement's house again . 
She turned and saw Ralph at the door , and she cried aloud and ran towards him with arms outspread . 
Then spake Katherine O my lord ! how great and masterful hast thou grown never did I hope to see thee come back so mighty a man . 
For though he but kisses me as his gossip and foster mother , yet are his kisses closer and kinder than they were aforetime . 
Said Clement Sooth is the Sage's guess yet verily , fair sir , I have told her somewhat of thy journeys , so far as I knew of them . 
Katherine reddened somewhat , but she said Would I might kiss her feet , dear lord . 
But now , I pray thee , tell me somewhat , now at once . 
And oft she wept for pity thereat . 
, for night is growing old . 
But we lived , and came into the eastern parts of the earth to a city right ancient , and fulfilled of marvels , which hight Sarras the Holy . 
There saw we wonders whereof were it overlong to tell of here but one while I will tell thee , my lord . 
So , what between one thing and another , the longing to see the Wise Woman grew as it were into a madness in me . 
Amidst of which we fell in with a merchant exceeding wise in ancient lore , who looked at me with eyes of love . 
So he led me to the woman and went his ways . 
She dwelt all by herself in a nook of an ancient ruined palace , erst the house of the ancientest of all the kings of Sarras . 
Now , she said to me , 'I have looked for thee a while now thou art come , thou shalt tell me what thou needest , and thy needs will I fulfil . 
Yet needs must thou do a thing for me in return , and maybe thou wilt deem it a great thing . 
Yet whereas thou has struck a bargain before thou camest hither , if I undo that for thee , the bargain with me may be nought so burdensome . 
Then she said 'Sit down before me , and I will teach thee wisdom . 
What did she teach me ? say ye . 
Well , if I told you belike ye would be none the wiser but so much she told me , that my heart swelled with joy of the wisdom which I garnered . 
Say thou , Clement , if I have been the worser woman to thee , or thy friends , or mine . 
Nay , goodwife , said Clement , I have nought against thee . 
Quoth I , 'That is but fair , and thou shalt find me true to thee . 
She said , 'If thou be not , I shall know it , and shall amend it in such wise that it shall cost thee much . 
thou hast borne ever since and she said 'Now hearken ! Thou shalt take this pair of beads , and do with them as I bid thee . 
they may serve her for a token but will be no talisman or leading stone to her and this I tell thee lest thou seek to the Well on the strength of them . 
For I bid thee give them to a man that thou lovest that thou lovest well , when he is in most need only he shall not be of thine own blood . 
This is all that I lay upon thee and if thou do it , thou shalt thrive , and if thou do it not , thou shalt come to harm . 
Now shalt thou go home to thine hostel , and take this for a token of my sooth saying . 
The wise merchant who led thee unto me is abiding thine homecoming that he may have of thee that which thou promisedst to him . 
Herewith depart , and I bid thee farewell . 
So I wotted that the woman had spoken sooth , and was wise and foreseeing , and something of a dread of her came upon me . 
But the next even back cometh Clement , and the day after we rode away from Sarras the Holy , and Valerius I saw never again . 
Here Katherine made an end , and both the men sat pondering her tale a little . 
Then speech came into Clement's mouth , and he said Wife , it is as I said before , when thy gossip had just departed from us . 
So thou must e'en take the life that fate hath sent thee . 
Katherine laughed through her tears , and said Withal , goodman , I have been no bad wife to thee . 
, they were a thousand and four score and three . 
Withal anon comes Ursula from St . 
Austin's with the Sage of Swevenham , whose face was full smiling and cheerful . 
Ursula wore that day a hauberk under her gown , and was helmed with a sallet and because of her armour she rode upon a little horse . 
Ralph gave her into the warding of the Sage , who was armed at all points , and looked a valiant man of war . 
Wilt thou not do with thy raiment as I do ? And therewith he did off his hauberk and his other armour save his sallet . 
Then arose great shouting from the Shepherds , and men stretched out the hand to him and called hail on his valiant heart . 
Amidst of which cries Giles muttered , but so as Ralph might hear him It is all down hill to Upmeads I shall take off my iron coat coming back again . 
So Ralph clapped him on the shoulder and bade him come back whole and well in any case . 
Yea , and so shalt thou come back , said he . 
Then the horns blew for departure , and they went their ways out of the market place , and out into the fields through the new wooden wall of Wulstead . 
Richard led the way with a half score of the Champions , but he rode but a little way before Ralph , who marched at the head of the Shepherds . 
So they went in the fresh morning over the old familiar fields , and strange it seemed to Ralph that he was leading an host into the little land of Upmeads . 
Then again he looked , and lo ! the High House rising over the meadows unburned and unhurt , and the banner of the fruited tree hanging forth from the topmost tower thereof . 
Nay , it will be but a little while . 
Wise man of Swevenham , see to it that my beloved is anigh me to day , for where I am , there will be safety . 
The Sage nodded yeasay and smiled . 
Albeit methinks that this irks not either you nor me for otherwise we might have found them straggling , and scattered far and wide , which would have made our labour the greater . 
Said Richard Thou biddest us wisdom of war let them have the hill against them . 
Said Clement Yea , for they are well learned and well armed another sort of folk to those wild men whom we otherthrew in the mountains . 
And in like wise said they all . 
Thou seest how many of them be horsed , and withal ye it is who must hold the chase of them for I will that no man of them shall escape . 
So they did after his bidding , and by then they had come back to Ralph those three men were at the foot of the hill , which was but low . 
Even so they did and presently those three came so nigh that they could see the whites of their eyes . 
None followed or cried after him for now had a great longing and expectation fallen upon Ralph's folk , and they abode what shall befall with little noise . 
And withal they saw men all armed coming from out the High House , who went down to the Bridge and abode there . 
ere they came in two battles straight across the meadow . 
And now there come riding across the field two warriors . 
Well , quoth Ralph strip them of all armour and weapons , and let a score of thy riders drive them back the way they came into the Debateable Wood . 
But give them this last word from me , that or long I shall clear the said wood of all strong thieves . 
Stephen departed on that errand and presently comes Giles and another of the Shepherds with a like tale , and had a like answer . 
Now amidst all these deeds it yet lacked an hour of noon . 
In good sooth , I deemed it would have lasted longer . 
Said Ursula Dear friend , this is even what I should have bidden thee myself . 
Depart speedily , that thou mayst be back the sooner for sorely do I long to enter thine house , beloved . 
True is that , little lord , said Nicholas . 
Hear a wonder amongst battles of thy Shepherds and the other footmen is not one slain , and but some five hurt . 
The Champions have lost three men slain outright , and some fifteen hurt of whom is thy brother Hugh , but not sorely . 
Better than well is thy story then , said Ralph . 
Now let them bring me a horse . 
So when he was horsed , he kissed Ursula and went his ways . 
And she abode his coming back at Richard's house anigh the water . 
Quoth Ralph Rejoice , gossip ! for neither is Clement hurt , nor I , and all is done that should be done . 
She moved her but little , but the tears came into her eyes and rolled down her cheeks . 
But love and the passing of the days are bittersweet within my heart to day . 
Later on thou shalt see few faces more cheerful and merry in the hall at Upmeads than this of thy gossip's . 
So be merry now , and go fetch thy father and thy mother , and rejoice their hearts that thou hast been even better than thy word to them . 
Farewell ! So he departed and rode to the House of St . 
And in the doing of all this have but three of our men been slain and a few hurt , amongst whom is thy son Hugh , but not sorely . 
O yea , son , said his mother , he shall do well enough . 
Then Ralph knelt before them , and King Peter and his wife blessed their son when they had kissed and embraced each other , and they wept for joy of him . 
Hearken , said King Peter softly to the Dame , how he reckons it all his own my day is done , my dear . 
He spake smiling , and she said Soothly he is waxen masterful , and well it becometh the dear youngling . 
Now they get to horse and ride their ways , while all folk blessed them . 
The old man laughed and said Maybe , son but as now it is time for thee to enter under our roof tree once more . 
Nay , said Ralph , but go ye in and sit in the high seat and abide me . 
Therewith he turned about and rode his ways to Richard's house , which was but a half mile thence . 
But his father and mother laughed when he was gone , and King Peter said There again ! thou seest , wife , it is he that commands and we that obey . 
O happy hour that so it is ! said the Lady , and happy now shall be the wearing of our days . 
Ah , she said , as she clung to him , but they were happy days the days of our journey and to morrow begins a new life . 
Nay , he said , but rather this even shall it be loathly to thee , lady ? She said There will be many people whom I knew not yesterday . 
There will be but me , he said , when the night hath been dark for a little . 
She kissed him and said nought . 
And therewithal came some of Richard's folk , for it was his house , and led with them a white palfrey for Ursula's riding , dight all gay and goodly . 
Come then , lest the hall be grown too dusk for men to see thy fairness . 
And she set it on his head , and said , O thou art fair , and I did well to meet thee in the dark wood . 
Then he kissed her dearly on the mouth and led her forth , and none went with them , and they mounted and went their ways . 
It is the living that I am going to , and I hope to do well by them . 
Came they then to the bridge end and there was no man there , nought but the kine that were wandering about over the dewy grass of eventide . 
Then they rode over the bridge and through the orchard , and still there was no man , and all gates were open wide . 
Then Ralph bade Ursula sit by his mother , and made him ready to sit by his father in all love and duty . 
Now within three days shall mass be sung in the choir of St . 
But so please you I will not abide till then , but will kneel to him and to his Lady and Queen here and now . 
So the feast went on a while till the night grew old , and folk must fare bedward . 
Come thou , my man and my darling and let us be alone in the master chamber of this ancient House . 
Then Ralph drew her unto him and the old man blessed them and prayed for goodly offspring for them , that the House of Upmeads might long endure . 
And thus were they two left alone amidst the love and hope of the kindred , as erst they lay alone in the desert . 
CHAPTER Yet a Few Words Concerning Ralph of Upmeads Certain it is that Ralph failed not of his promise to the good Prior of St . 
And ever when Ralph thus spoke was a brother of the House sitting with the Prior , which brother was a learned and wise man and very speedy and deft with his pen . 
Wherefore it has been deemed not unlike that from this monk's writing has come the more part of the tale above told . 
And if it be so , it is well . 
He rode to Higham and offered himself as captain to the abbot thereof , and drave out the tyrants and oppressors thence , and gave back peace to the Frank of Higham . 
With all the friends of his quest he was kind and well beloved . 
In about two years from the day when he rode home , came to him the Lord Bull of Utterbol with a chosen band , of whom were both Otter and Redhead . 
Clement and Katherine came oft to the High House , and Katherine exceeding often and she loved and cherished Ursula and lived long in health of body and peace of mind . 
As to Ursula his wife , she was ever as valiant and true as when they met in the dark night amidst of the Eastland wood . 
On one day they two died and were laid together in one tomb in the choir of St . 
AND HERE ENDS THE TALE OF THE WELL AT THE WORLD'S END . 
