This is the story of what a Woman's patience can endure , and what a Man's resolution can achieve . 
As the Judge might once have heard it , so the Reader shall hear it now . 
No circumstance of importance , from the beginning to the end of the disclosure , shall be related on hearsay evidence . 
happens to be more closely connected than others with the incidents to be recorded , he will describe them in his own person . 
Let Walter Hartright , teacher of drawing , aged twenty eight years , be heard first . 
II It was the last day of July . 
For my own poor part , the fading summer left me out of health , out of spirits , and , if the truth must be told , out of money as well . 
I roused myself from the book which I was dreaming over rather than reading , and left my chambers to meet the cool night air in the suburbs . 
It was one of the two evenings in every week which I was accustomed to spend with my mother and my sister . 
So I turned my steps northward in the direction of Hampstead . 
My father was a drawing master before me . 
Thanks to his admirable prudence and self denial my mother and sister were left , after his death , as independent of the world as they had been during his lifetime . 
I succeeded to his connection , and had every reason to feel grateful for the prospect that awaited me at my starting in life . 
On his own account , and , I must be allowed to add , on mine also , the Professor merits the honour of a formal introduction . 
Accident has made him the starting point of the strange family story which it is the purpose of these pages to unfold . 
I had first become acquainted with my Italian friend by meeting him at certain great houses where he taught his own language and I taught drawing . 
and that he had been for many years respectably established in London as a teacher of languages . 
Without being actually a dwarf for he was perfectly well proportioned from head to foot Pesca was , I think , the smallest human being I ever saw out of a show room . 
Remarkable anywhere , by his personal appearance , he was still further distinguished among the rank and file of mankind by the harmless eccentricity of his character . 
We had met there accidentally , and were bathing together . 
Soon after we had both struck out from shore , I stopped , finding my friend did not gain on me , and turned round to look for him . 
During the few minutes that elapsed while I was taking him in , the air revived him , and he ascended the steps of the machine with my assistance . 
With the partial recovery of his animation came the return of his wonderful delusion on the subject of swimming . 
As soon as his chattering teeth would let him speak , he smiled vacantly , and said he thought it must have been the Cramp . 
When he had thoroughly recovered himself , and had joined me on the beach , his warm Southern nature broke through all artificial English restraints in a moment . 
III Pesca's face and manner , on the evening when we confronted each other at my mother's gate , were more than sufficient to inform me that something extraordinary had happened . 
It was quite useless , however , to ask him for an immediate explanation . 
he had come to the cottage to make sure of meeting me that night , and that he had some news to tell of an unusually agreeable kind . 
We both bounced into the parlour in a highly abrupt and undignified manner . 
My mother sat by the open window laughing and fanning herself . 
Pesca was one of her especial favourites and his wildest eccentricities were always pardonable in her eyes . 
My sister Sarah , with all the advantages of youth , was , strangely enough , less pliable . 
She did full justice to Pesca's excellent qualities of heart but she could not accept him implicitly , as my mother accepted him , for my sake . 
Her insular notions of propriety rose in perpetual revolt against Pesca's constitutional contempt for appearances and she was always more or less undisguisedly astonished at her mother's familiarity with the eccentric little foreigner . 
I constantly see old people flushed and excited by the prospect of some anticipated pleasure which altogether fails to ruffle the tranquillity of their serene grandchildren . 
I don't know what would have happened , Walter , said my mother , if you had delayed much longer . 
Pesca has been half mad with impatience , and I have been half mad with curiosity . 
Very provoking it spoils the Set , murmured Sarah to herself , mournfully absorbed over the ruins of the broken cup . 
Having turned the chair with its back towards us , he jumped into it on his knees , and excitedly addressed his small congregation of three from an impromptu pulpit . 
The time has come I recite my good news I speak at last . 
Hear , hear ! said my mother , humouring the joke . 
The next thing he will break , mamma , whispered Sarah , will be the back of the best arm chair . 
I go back into my life , and I address myself to the noblest of created beings , continued Pesca , vehemently apostrophising my unworthy self over the top rail of the chair . 
I said , persisted Pesca , that my life belonged to my dear friend , Walter , for the rest of my days and so it does . 
You all know where that is ? Yes , yes course of course . 
The fine house , my good dears , has got inside it a fine family . 
Now mind ! Imagine to yourselves that I am teaching the young Misses to day , as usual . 
We are all four of us down together in the Hell of Dante . 
Ha ! my good dears , I am closer than you think for to the business , now . 
Have you been patient so far ? or have you said to yourselves , 'Deuce what the deuce ! Pesca is long winded to night ? We declared that we were deeply interested . 
My seat was on thorns , and my soul was on fire to speak but I held my tongue , and let Papa go on . 
, in the name of heaven make your hay . 
Something jarred in me almost painfully while he was speaking his light farewell words . 
When I was left alone again nothing remained to be done but to walk to the Hampstead cottage and bid my mother and Sarah good bye . 
IV The heat had been painfully oppressive all day , and it was now a close and sultry night . 
I walked forward a few paces on the shortest way back to London , then stopped and hesitated . 
The idea of descending any sooner than I could help into the heat and gloom of London repelled me . 
I turned on the instant , with my fingers tightening round the handle of my stick . 
The strange woman spoke first . 
Is that the road to London ? she said . 
I looked attentively at her , as she put that singular question to me . 
It was then nearly one o'clock . 
The voice , little as I had yet heard of it , had something curiously still and mechanical in its tones , and the utterance was remarkably rapid . 
Her figure was slight , and rather above the average height her gait and actions free from the slightest approach to extravagance . 
This was all that I could observe of her in the dim light and under the perplexingly strange circumstances of our meeting . 
What sort of a woman she was , and how she came to be out alone in the high road , an hour after midnight , I altogether failed to guess . 
Did you hear me ? she said , still quietly and rapidly , and without the least fretfulness or impatience . 
I asked if that was the way to London . 
Yes , I replied , that is the way it leads to St . 
John's Wood and the Regent's Park . 
You must excuse my not answering you before . 
I was rather startled by your sudden appearance in the road and I am , even now , quite unable to account for it . 
You don't suspect me of doing anything wrong , do you ? have done nothing wrong . 
I have met with an accident I am very unfortunate in being here alone so late . 
Why do you suspect me of doing wrong ? She spoke with unnecessary earnestness and agitation , and shrank back from me several paces . 
I did my best to reassure her . 
Pray don't suppose that I have any idea of suspecting you , I said , or any other wish than to be of assistance to you , if I can . 
I only wondered at your appearance in the road , because it seemed to me to be empty the instant before I saw you . 
She turned , and pointed back to a place at the junction of the road to London and the road to Hampstead , where there was a gap in the hedge . 
I heard you coming , she said , and hid there to see what sort of man you were , before I risked speaking . 
I doubted and feared about it till you passed and then I was obliged to steal after you , and touch you . 
Steal after me and touch me ? Why not call to me ? Strange , to say the least of it . 
May I trust you ? she asked . 
You don't think the worse of me because I have met with an accident ? She stopped in confusion shifted her bag from one hand to the other and sighed bitterly . 
The loneliness and helplessness of the woman touched me . 
You may trust me for any harmless purpose , I said . 
If it troubles you to explain your strange situation to me , don't think of returning to the subject again . 
I have no right to ask you for any explanations . 
Tell me how I can help you and if I can , I will . 
You are very kind , and I am very , very thankful to have met you . 
I have only been in London once before , she went on , more and more rapidly , and I know nothing about that side of it , yonder . 
Can I get a fly , or a carriage of any kind ? Is it too late ? I don't know . 
What could I do ? Here was a stranger utterly and helplessly at my mercy and that stranger a forlorn woman . 
Are you sure that your friend in London will receive you at such a late hour as this ? I said . 
Only say you will let me leave you when and how I please only say you won't interfere with me . 
even on that sultry night . 
Remember that I was young remember that the hand which touched me was a woman's . 
Will you promise ? Yes . 
One word ! The little familiar word that is on everybody's lips , every hour in the day . 
Oh me ! and I tremble , now , when I write it . 
It was like a dream . 
It was her voice again that first broke the silence between us . 
I want to ask you something , she said suddenly . 
Do you know many people in London ? Yes , a great many . 
Many men of rank and title ? There was an unmistakable tone of suspicion in the strange question . 
I hesitated about answering it . 
Some , I said , after a moment's silence . 
Why do you ask ? Because I hope , for my own sake , there is one Baronet that you don't know . 
Will you tell me his name ? I can't I daren't I forget myself when I mention it . 
I could hardly refuse to humour her in such a trifle , and I mentioned three names . 
Ah ! you DON'T know him , she said , with a sigh of relief . 
Are you a man of rank and title yourself ? Far from it . 
I am only a drawing master . 
As the reply passed my lips a little bitterly , perhaps she took my arm with the abruptness which characterised all her actions . 
Not a man of rank and title , she repeated to herself . 
Thank God ! I may trust HIM . 
I had hitherto contrived to master my curiosity out of consideration for my companion but it got the better of me now . 
I am afraid you have serious reason to complain of some man of rank and title ? I said . 
I have been cruelly used and cruelly wronged . 
You will be kinder than ever , if you will walk on fast , and not speak to me . 
I sadly want to quiet myself , if I can . 
We moved forward again at a quick pace and for half an hour , at least , not a word passed on either side . 
From time to time , being forbidden to make any more inquiries , I stole a look at her face . 
It was always the same the lips close shut , the brow frowning , the eyes looking straight forward , eagerly and yet absently . 
We had reached the first houses , and were close on the new Wesleyan college , before her set features relaxed and she spoke once more . 
Do you live in London ? she said . 
So I added , But to morrow I shall be away from London for some time . 
I am going into the country . 
North or south ? North to Cumberland . 
Cumberland ! she repeated the word tenderly . 
Ah ! wish I was going there too . 
I was once happy in Cumberland . 
I tried again to lift the veil that hung between this woman and me . 
Perhaps you were born , I said , in the beautiful Lake country . 
I was born in Hampshire but I once went to school for a little while in Cumberland . 
Lakes ? I don't remember any lakes . 
It's Limmeridge village , and Limmeridge House , I should like to see again . 
It was my turn now to stop suddenly . 
Did you hear anybody calling after us ? she asked , looking up and down the road affrightedly , the instant I stopped . 
I was only struck by the name of Limmeridge House . 
I heard it mentioned by some Cumberland people a few days since . 
Ah ! not my people . 
Mrs. Fairlie is dead and her husband is dead and their little girl may be married and gone away by this time . 
I can't say who lives at Limmeridge now . 
If any more are left there of that name , I only know I love them for Mrs. Fairlie's sake . 
She seemed about to say more but while she was speaking , we came within view of the turnpike , at the top of the Avenue Road . 
Her hand tightened round my arm , and she looked anxiously at the gate before us . 
Is the turnpike man looking out ? she asked . 
He was not looking out no one else was near the place when we passed through the gate . 
The sight of the gas lamps and houses seemed to agitate her , and to make her impatient . 
This is London , she said . 
Do you see any carriage I can get ? I am tired and frightened . 
I want to shut myself in and be driven away . 
That idea of shutting herself in , and being driven away , had now got full possession of her mind . 
She could think and talk of nothing else . 
A gentleman got out and let himself in at the garden door . 
I hailed the cab , as the driver mounted the box again . 
When we crossed the road , my companion's impatience increased to such an extent that she almost forced me to run . 
It's so late , she said . 
I am only in a hurry because it's so late . 
I can't take you , sir , if you're not going towards Tottenham Court Road , said the driver civilly , when I opened the cab door . 
My horse is dead beat , and I can't get him no further than the stable . 
That will do for me . 
I'm going that way I'm going that way . 
She spoke with breathless eagerness , and pressed by me into the cab . 
I had assured myself that the man was sober as well as civil before I let her enter the vehicle . 
And now , when she was seated inside , I entreated her to let me see her set down safely at her destination . 
No , no , no , she said vehemently . 
I'm quite safe , and quite happy now . 
If you are a gentleman , remember your promise . 
Let him drive on till I stop him . 
Thank you oh ! thank you , thank you ! My hand was on the cab door . 
She caught it in hers , kissed it , and pushed it away . 
The sound of the wheels grew fainter in the distance the cab melted into the black shadows on the road the woman in white was gone . 
Ten minutes or more had passed . 
I was still on the same side of the way now mechanically walking forward a few paces now stopping again absently . 
I was on the dark side of the road , in the thick shadow of some garden trees , when I stopped to look round . 
On the opposite and lighter side of the way , a short distance below me , a policeman was strolling along in the direction of the Regent's Park . 
The carriage passed me an open chaise driven by two men . 
The horse was instantly pulled up , a few yards beyond the dark place where I stood . 
Policeman ! cried the first speaker . 
Have you seen a woman pass this way ? What sort of woman , sir ? A woman in a lavender coloured gown No , no , interposed the second man . 
The clothes we gave her were found on her bed . 
She must have gone away in the clothes she wore when she came to us . 
I haven't seen her , sir . 
If you or any of your men meet with the woman , stop her , and send her in careful keeping to that address . 
I'll pay all expenses , and a fair reward into the bargain . 
The policeman looked at the card that was handed down to him . 
Why are we to stop her , sir ? What has she done ? Done ! She has escaped from my Asylum . 
Don't forget a woman in white . 
V She has escaped from my Asylum ! I cannot say with truth that the terrible inference which those words suggested flashed upon me like a new revelation . 
In the disturbed state of my mind , it was useless to think of going to bed , when I at last got back to my chambers in Clement's Inn . 
Before many hours elapsed it would be necessary to start on my journey to Cumberland . 
I sat down and tried , first to sketch , then to read but the woman in white got between me and my pencil , between me and my book . 
Had the forlorn creature come to any harm ? That was my first thought , though I shrank selfishly from confronting it . 
Other thoughts followed , on which it was less harrowing to dwell . 
Even the bustle and confusion at the railway terminus , so wearisome and bewildering at other times , roused me and did me good . 
My travelling instructions directed me to go to Carlisle , and then to diverge by a branch railway which ran in the direction of the coast . 
As a misfortune to begin with , our engine broke down between Lancaster and Carlisle . 
The delay occasioned by this accident caused me to be too late for the branch train , by which I was to have gone on immediately . 
The driver was evidently discomposed by the lateness of my arrival . 
He was in that state of highly respectful sulkiness which is peculiar to English servants . 
We drove away slowly through the darkness in perfect silence . 
The roads were bad , and the dense obscurity of the night increased the difficulty of getting over the ground quickly . 
We had passed one gate before entering the drive , and we passed another before we drew up at the house . 
In a quarter of an hour I was ready to be taken up to my bedchamber . 
Circumstances that were but a few days old faded back in my memory , as if they had happened months and months since . 
Although the woman in white was still in my mind , the image of her seemed to have grown dull and faint already . 
A little before nine o'clock , I descended to the ground floor of the house . 
The solemn man servant of the night before met me wandering among the passages , and compassionately showed me the way to the breakfast room . 
I looked from the table to the window farthest from me , and saw a lady standing at it , with her back turned towards me . 
The instant my eyes rested on her , I was struck by the rare beauty of her form , and by the unaffected grace of her attitude . 
She turned towards me immediately . 
She left the window and I said to myself , The lady is dark . 
She moved forward a few steps and I said to myself , The lady is young . 
The lady's complexion was almost swarthy , and the dark down on her upper lip was almost a moustache . 
She had a large , firm , masculine mouth and jaw prominent , piercing , resolute brown eyes and thick , coal black hair , growing unusually low down on her forehead . 
Mr. Hartright ? said the lady interrogatively , her dark face lighting up with a smile , and softening and growing womanly the moment she began to speak . 
We resigned all hope of you last night , and went to bed as usual . 
Accept my apologies for our apparent want of attention and allow me to introduce myself as one of your pupils . 
The offered hand rather large , but beautifully formed was given to me with the easy , unaffected self reliance of a highly bred woman . 
I hope you come here good humouredly determined to make the best of your position , continued the lady . 
You will have to begin this morning by putting up with no other company at breakfast than mine . 
My sister is in her own room , nursing that essentially feminine malady , a slight headache and her old governness , Mrs. Vesey , is charitably attending on her with restorative tea . 
My uncle , Mr. Fairlie , never joins us at any of our meals he is an invalid , and keeps bachelor state in his own apartments . 
There is nobody else in the house but me . 
Two young ladies have been staying here , but they went away yesterday , in despair and no wonder . 
How can you expect four women to dine together alone every day , and not quarrel ? We are such fools , we can't entertain each other at table . 
Dear me , you look puzzled . 
In the second case , I will give you some tea to compose your spirits , and do all a woman can to hold my tongue . 
She handed me my cup of tea , laughing gaily . 
While it was impossible to be formal and reserved in her company , it was more than impossible to take the faintest vestige of a liberty with her , even in thought . 
Yes , yes , she said , when I had suggested the only explanation I could offer , to account for my perplexed looks , I understand . 
You are such a perfect stranger in the house , that you are puzzled by my familiar references to the worthy inhabitants . 
Natural enough I ought to have thought of it before . 
At any rate , I can set it right now . 
My mother was twice married the first time to Mr. Halcombe , my father the second time to Mr. Fairlie , my half sister's father . 
Except that we are both orphans , we are in every respect as unlike each other as possible . 
My father was a poor man , and Miss Fairlie's father was a rich man . 
I have got nothing , and she has a fortune . 
I am dark and ugly , and she is fair and pretty . 
In short , she is an angel and I am Try some of that marmalade , Mr. Hartright , and finish the sentence , in the name of female propriety , for yourself . 
What am I to tell you about Mr. Fairlie ? Upon my honour , I hardly know . 
He is sure to send for you after breakfast , and you can study him for yourself . 
I won't live without her , and she can't live without me and that is how I come to be at Limmeridge House . 
You must please both of us , Mr. Hartright , or please neither of us and , what is still more trying , you will be thrown entirely upon our society . 
Mrs. Vesey is an excellent person , who possesses all the cardinal virtues , and counts for nothing and Mr. Fairlie is too great an invalid to be a companion for anybody . 
I don't know what is the matter with him , and the doctors don't know what is the matter with him , and he doesn't know himself what is the matter with him . 
We all say it's on the nerves , and we none of us know what we mean when we say it . 
However , I advise you to humour his little peculiarities , when you see him to day . 
Admire his collection of coins , prints , and water colour drawings , and you will win his heart . 
Upon my word , if you can be contented with a quiet country life , I don't see why you should not get on very well here . 
From breakfast to lunch , Mr. Fairlie's drawings will occupy you . 
After lunch , Miss Fairlie and I shoulder our sketch books , and go out to misrepresent Nature , under your directions . 
Drawing is her favourite whim , mind , not mine . 
Women can't draw their minds are too flighty , and their eyes are too inattentive . 
No matter my sister likes it so I waste paint and spoil paper , for her sake , as composedly as any woman in England . 
As for the evenings , I think we can help you through them . 
even at billiards as well . 
Even if I were the most restless of mankind , I said , I should be in no danger of thirsting after adventures for some time to come . 
You don't say so , Mr. Hartright ! May I hear it ? You have a claim to hear it . 
Mentioned my mother's name ! You interest me indescribably . 
Miss Halcombe's bright resolute eyes looked eagerly into mine , from the beginning of the narrative to the end . 
Her face expressed vivid interest and astonishment , but nothing more . 
She was evidently as far from knowing of any clue to the mystery as I was myself . 
Are you quite sure of those words referring to my mother ? she asked . 
Quite sure , I replied . 
She knew that Mrs. Fairlie and her husband were both dead and she spoke of Miss Fairlie as if they had known each other when they were children . 
You said , I think , that she denied belonging to this place ? Yes , she told me she came from Hampshire . 
And you entirely failed to find out her name ? Entirely . 
But I wish you had been a little more resolute about finding out her name . 
We must really clear up this mystery , in some way . 
You had better not speak of it yet to Mr. Fairlie , or to my sister . 
But they are also , in widely different ways , rather nervous and sensitive and you would only fidget one and alarm the other to no purpose . 
As for myself , I am all aflame with curiosity , and I devote my whole energies to the business of discovery from this moment . 
When my mother came here , after her second marriage , she certainly established the village school just as it exists at the present time . 
But the old teachers are all dead , or gone elsewhere and no enlightenment is to be hoped for from that quarter . 
Wait in the hall , said Miss Halcombe , answering the servant for me , in her quick , ready way . 
Mr. Hartright will come out directly . 
In the absence of any other means of getting information , I will pass the morning in looking over my mother's correspondence with Mr. Fairlie . 
The luncheon hour is two , Mr. Hartright . 
Till two o'clock , then , farewell . 
I have my master's orders to show you your own sitting room , sir , said the man , and to inquire if you approve of the situation and the light . 
I must have been hard to please , indeed , if I had not approved of the room , and of everything about it . 
The bow window looked out on the same lovely view which I had admired , in the morning , from my bedroom . 
It was the prettiest and most luxurious little sitting room I had ever seen and I admired it with the warmest enthusiasm . 
The solemn servant was far too highly trained to betray the slightest satisfaction . 
He bowed with icy deference when my terms of eulogy were all exhausted , and silently opened the door for me to go out into the passage again . 
One side of the room was occupied by a long bookcase of some rare inlaid wood that was quite new to me . 
It was not more than six feet high , and the top was adorned with statuettes in marble , ranged at regular distances one from the other . 
He was dressed in a dark frock coat , of some substance much thinner than cloth , and in waistcoat and trousers of spotless white . 
His feet were effeminately small , and were clad in buff coloured silk stockings , and little womanish bronze leather slippers . 
Two rings adorned his white delicate hands , the value of which even my inexperienced observation detected to be all but priceless . 
My morning's experience of Miss Halcombe had predisposed me to be pleased with everybody in the house but my sympathies shut themselves up resolutely at the first sight of Mr. Fairlie . 
On approaching nearer to him , I discovered that he was not so entirely without occupation as I had at first supposed . 
And don't trouble yourself to move the chair , please . 
In the wretched state of my nerves , movement of any kind is exquisitely painful to me . 
I paused in astonishment and the croaking voice honoured me with this explanation Pray excuse me . 
But could you contrive to speak in a lower key ? In the wretched state of my nerves , loud sound of any kind is indescribable torture to me . 
You will pardon an invalid ? I only say to you what the lamentable state of my health obliges me to say to everybody . 
You will find your position here , Mr. Hartright , properly recognised . 
There is none of the horrid English barbarity of feeling about the social position of an artist in this house . 
So much of my early life has been passed abroad , that I have quite cast my insular skin in that respect . 
I wish I could say the same of the gentry detestable word , but I suppose I must use it of the gentry in the neighbourhood . 
They are sad Goths in Art , Mr. Hartright . 
People , I do assure you , who would have opened their eyes in astonishment , if they had seen Charles the Fifth pick up Titian's brush for him . 
As a practical commentary on the liberal social theory which he had just favoured me by illustrating , Mr. Fairlie's cool request rather amused me . 
I put back one drawer and gave him the other , with all possible politeness . 
He began trifling with the new set of coins and the little brushes immediately languidly looking at them and admiring them all the time he was speaking to me . 
A thousand thanks and a thousand excuses . 
Do you like coins ? Yes . 
So glad we have another taste in common besides our taste for Art . 
Now , about the pecuniary arrangements between us do tell me are they satisfactory ? Most satisfactory , Mr. Fairlie . 
And what next ? Ah ! I remember . 
And what next ? Curious , is it not ? I had a great deal more to say and I appear to have quite forgotten it . 
Do you mind touching the bell ? In that corner . 
I rang and a new servant noiselessly made his appearance a foreigner , with a set smile and perfectly brushed hair a valet every inch of him . 
Louis , said Mr. Fairlie , dreamily dusting the tips of his fingers with one of the tiny brushes for the coins , I made some entries in my tablettes this morning . 
A thousand pardons , Mr. Hartright , I'm afraid I bore you . 
In the meantime , the valet left the room , and returned shortly with a little ivory book . 
Just so ! said Mr. Fairlie , consulting the tablettes . 
Louis , take down that portfolio . 
He pointed , as he spoke , to several portfolios placed near the window , on mahogany stands . 
No. Not the one with the green back that contains my Rembrandt etchings , Mr. Hartright . 
Do you like etchings ? Yes ? So glad we have another taste in common . 
The portfolio with the red back , Louis . 
Don't drop it ! You have no idea of the tortures I should suffer , Mr. Hartright , if Louis dropped that portfolio . 
Is it safe on the chair ? Do YOU think it safe , Mr. Hartright ? Yes ? So glad . 
Will you oblige me by looking at the drawings , if you really think they are quite safe . 
What an ass you are . 
The drawings , I answered , require careful straining and mounting and , in my opinion , they are well worth I beg your pardon , interposed Mr. Fairlie . 
Do you mind my closing my eyes while you speak ? Even this light is too much for them . 
I entreat you to excuse me , Mr. Hartright , he said in a feeble flutter . 
But surely I hear some horrid children in the garden my private garden below ? I can't say , Mr. Fairlie . 
Oblige me you have been so very good in humouring my poor nerves oblige me by lifting up a corner of the blind . 
The garden was carefully walled in , all round . 
Not a human creature , large or small , appeared in any part of the sacred seclusion . 
I reported that gratifying fact to Mr. Fairlie . 
My fancy , I suppose . 
will encourage the children from the village . 
Such brats oh , dear me , such brats ! Shall I confess it , Mr. Hartright ? I sadly want a reform in the construction of children . 
Nature's only idea seems to be to make them machines for the production of incessant noise . 
Quite a model family ! said Mr. Fairlie , leering at the cherubs . 
Such nice round faces , and such nice soft wings , and nothing else . 
No dirty little legs to run about on , and no noisy little lungs to scream with . 
How immeasurably superior to the existing construction ! I will close my eyes again , if you will allow me . 
And you really can manage the drawings ? So glad . 
Is there anything else to settle ? if there is , I think I have forgotten it . 
Ah ! just so , said Mr. Fairlie . 
I wish I felt strong enough to go into that part of the arrangement but I don't . 
The ladies who profit by your kind services , Mr. Hartright , must settle , and decide , and so on , for themselves . 
My niece is fond of your charming art . 
She knows just enough about it to be conscious of her own sad defects . 
Please take pains with her . 
Do you mind ringing for Louis to carry the portfolio to your own room ? I will carry it there myself , Mr. Fairlie , if you will allow me . 
I am such a sufferer that I hardly dare hope to enjoy much of your society . 
Would you mind taking great pains not to let the doors bang , and not to drop the portfolio ? Thank you . 
Gently with the curtains , please the slightest noise from them goes through me like a knife . 
It was like coming to the surface of the water after deep diving , to find myself once more on the outside of Mr. Fairlie's room . 
At two o'clock I descended again to the breakfast room , a little anxiously . 
Expectations of some interest were connected with my approaching reappearance in that part of the house . 
VIII When I entered the room , I found Miss Halcombe and an elderly lady seated at the luncheon table . 
I can do little more than offer my humble testimony to the truthfulness of Miss Halcombe's sketch of the old lady's character . 
Mrs. Vesey looked the personification of human composure and female amiability . 
A calm enjoyment of a calm existence beamed in drowsy smiles on her plump , placid face . 
Some of us rush through life , and some of us saunter through life . 
Mrs. Vesey SAT through life . 
Mercy on me ! it's a question for your taste , my good lady , not for mine . 
Suppose you have a little of both ? and suppose you begin with the chicken , because Mr. Hartright looks devoured by anxiety to carve for you . 
Surely a mild , a compliant , an unutterably tranquil and harmless old lady ! But enough , perhaps , for the present , of Mrs. Vesey . 
All this time , there were no signs of Miss Fairlie . 
We finished our luncheon and still she never appeared . 
Miss Halcombe , whose quick eye nothing escaped , noticed the looks that I cast , from time to time , in the direction of the door . 
I understand you , Mr. Hartright , she said you are wondering what has become of your other pupil . 
She has been downstairs , and has got over her headache but has not sufficiently recovered her appetite to join us at lunch . 
If you will put yourself under my charge , I think I can undertake to find her somewhere in the garden . 
As we crossed the lawn , Miss Halcombe looked at me significantly , and shook her head . 
That mysterious adventure of yours , she said , still remains involved in its own appropriate midnight darkness . 
I have been all the morning looking over my mother's letters , and I have made no discoveries yet . 
However , don't despair , Mr. Hartright . 
This is a matter of curiosity and you have got a woman for your ally . 
Under such conditions success is certain , sooner or later . 
The letters are not exhausted . 
I have three packets still left , and you may confidently rely on my spending the whole evening over them . 
Here , then , was one of my anticipations of the morning still unfulfilled . 
I began to wonder , next , whether my introduction to Miss Fairlie would disappoint the expectations that I had been forming of her since breakfast time . 
And how did you get on with Mr. Fairlie ? inquired Miss Halcombe , as we left the lawn and turned into a shrubbery . 
Was he particularly nervous this morning ? Never mind considering about your answer , Mr. Hartright . 
The mere fact of your being obliged to consider is enough for me . 
I see in your face that he WAS particularly nervous and , as I am amiably unwilling to throw you into the same condition , I ask no more . 
We turned off into a winding path while she was speaking , and approached a pretty summer house , built of wood , in the form of a miniature Swiss chalet . 
The one room of the summer house , as we ascended the steps of the door , was occupied by a young lady . 
It is plainly parted and drawn back over her ears , and the line of it ripples naturally as it crosses her forehead . 
The mystery which underlies the beauty of women is never raised above the reach of all expression until it has claimed kindred with the deeper mystery in our own souls . 
Then , and then only , has it passed beyond the narrow region on which light falls , in this world , from the pencil and the pen . 
Think of her as you thought of the first woman who quickened the pulses within you that the rest of her sex had no art to stir . 
Let the kind , candid blue eyes meet yours , as they met mine , with the one matchless look which we both remember so well . 
Let her voice speak the music that you once loved best , attuned as sweetly to your ear as to mine . 
Let her footstep , as she comes and goes , in these pages , be like that other footstep to whose airy fall your own heart once beat time . 
Take her as the visionary nursling of your own fancy and she will grow upon you , all the more clearly , as the living woman who dwells in mine . 
At one time it seemed like something wanting in HER at another , like something wanting in myself , which hindered me from understanding her as I ought . 
Something wanting , something wanting and where it was , and what it was , I could not say . 
was not of a nature to set me at my ease , during a first interview with Miss Fairlie . 
The few kind words of welcome which she spoke found me hardly self possessed enough to thank her in the customary phrases of reply . 
Look there , Mr. Hartright , she said , pointing to the sketch book on the table , and to the little delicate wandering hand that was still trifling with it . 
I must not take credit to myself where no credit is due , she said , her clear , truthful blue eyes looking alternately at Miss Halcombe and at me . 
Fond as I am of drawing , I am so conscious of my own ignorance that I am more afraid than anxious to begin . 
She made the confession very prettily and simply , and , with quaint , childish earnestness , drew the sketch book away close to her own side of the table . 
Miss Halcombe cut the knot of the little embarrassment forthwith , in her resolute , downright way . 
Good , bad , or indifferent , she said , the pupil's sketches must pass through the fiery ordeal of the master's judgment and there's an end of it . 
I hope Mr. Hartright will pay ME no compliments , said Miss Fairlie , as we all left the summer house . 
May I venture to inquire why you express that hope ? I asked . 
Because I shall believe all that you say to me , she answered simply . 
I only knew it intuitively then . 
I know it by experience now . 
We merely waited to rouse good Mrs. Vesey from the place which she still occupied at the deserted luncheon table , before we entered the open carriage for our promised drive . 
I can remember the conversation that passed far more easily than the sketches that I mechanically looked over . 
Yes ! let me acknowledge that on this first day I let the charm of her presence lure me from the recollection of myself and my position . 
As children , we none of us possess it . 
No uninstructed man or woman possesses it . 
The grandest mountain prospect that the eye can range over is appointed to annihilation . 
The smallest human interest that the pure heart can feel is appointed to immortality . 
We had been out nearly three hours , when the carriage again passed through the gates of Limmeridge House . 
When they withdrew to dress for dinner , and when I was alone again in my little sitting room , my spirits seemed to leave me on a sudden . 
I felt ill at ease and dissatisfied with myself , I hardly knew why . 
Perhaps I was now conscious for the first time of having enjoyed our drive too much in the character of a guest , and too little in the character of a drawing master . 
Perhaps that strange sense of something wanting , either in Miss Fairlie or in myself , which had perplexed me when I was first introduced to her , haunted me still . 
Anyhow , it was a relief to my spirits when the dinner hour called me out of my solitude , and took me back to the society of the ladies of the house . 
I was struck , on entering the drawing room , by the curious contrast , rather in material than in colour , of the dresses which they now wore . 
When the dinner was over we returned together to the drawing room . 
Large glass doors at the lower end opened on to a terrace , beautifully ornamented along its whole length with a profusion of flowers . 
took possession of an arm chair in a corner , and dozed off comfortably to sleep . 
At my request Miss Fairlie placed herself at the piano . 
Outside , on the terrace , the clustering flowers and long grasses and creepers waved so gently in the light evening air , that the sound of their rustling never reached us . 
The sky was without a cloud , and the dawning mystery of moonlight began to tremble already in the region of the eastern heaven . 
It was an evening of sights and sounds never to forget . 
We all sat silent in the places we had chosen Mrs. Vesey still sleeping , Miss Fairlie still playing , Miss Halcombe still reading till the light failed us . 
By this time the moon had stolen round to the terrace , and soft , mysterious rays of light were slanting already across the lower end of the room . 
For half an hour more the music still went on . 
After that the beauty of the moonlight view on the terrace tempted Miss Fairlie out to look at it , and I followed her . 
When the candles at the piano had been lighted Miss Halcombe had changed her place , so as to continue her examination of the letters by their assistance . 
We left her , on a low chair , at one side of the instrument , so absorbed over her reading that she did not seem to notice when we moved . 
Mr. Hartright , she said , will you come here for a minute ? I want to speak to you . 
I entered the room again immediately . 
The piano stood about half way down along the inner wall . 
On the side nearest to the terrace there stood a low ottoman , on which I took my place . 
I want you to listen while I read the concluding passages in this letter , said Miss Halcombe . 
Tell me if you think they throw any light upon your strange adventure on the road to London . 
The letter is addressed by my mother to her second husband , Mr. Fairlie , and the date refers to a period of between eleven and twelve years since . 
She looked and spoke earnestly , and , as I thought , a little uneasily as well . 
Miss Halcombe began to read as follows 'You will be tired , my dear Philip , of hearing perpetually about my schools and my scholars . 
Lay the blame , pray , on the dull uniformity of life at Limmeridge , and not on me . 
Besides , this time I have something really interesting to tell you about a new scholar . 
'You know old Mrs. Kempe at the village shop . 
Well , after years of ailing , the doctor has at last given her up , and she is dying slowly day by day . 
Her only living relation , a sister , arrived last week to take care of her . 
This sister comes all the way from Hampshire her name is Mrs. Catherick . 
She was softly singing to herself one of the melodies which she had been playing earlier in the evening . 
Miss Halcombe waited till she had passed out of sight again , and then went on with the letter 'Mrs . 
Catherick is a decent , well behaved , respectable woman middle aged , and with the remains of having been moderately , only moderately , nice looking . 
There is something in her manner and in her appearance , however , which I can't make out . 
She is altogether what you would call a walking mystery . 
Her errand at Limmeridge House , however , was simple enough . 
to the school that very day . 
that the poor little thing's intellect is not developed as it ought to be at her age . 
His opinion is that she will grow out of it . 
Now , my love , you must not imagine , in your off hand way , that I have been attaching myself to an idiot . 
, in the most oddly sudden , surprised , half frightened way . 
Although she is dressed very neatly , her clothes show a sad want of taste in colour and pattern . 
She hesitated and seemed puzzled for a minute , then flushed up , and appeared to understand . 
Her little hand clasped mine suddenly . 
, I will always wear white as long as I live . 
It will help me to remember you , ma'am , and to think that I am pleasing you still , when I go away and see you no more . 
This is only one specimen of the quaint things she says so prettily . 
Did the forlorn woman whom you met in the high road seem young ? she asked . 
Young enough to be two or three and twenty ? Yes , Miss Halcombe , as young as that . 
And she was strangely dressed , from head to foot , all in white ? All in white . 
While the answer was passing my lips Miss Fairlie glided into view on the terrace for the third time . 
Instead of proceeding on her walk , she stopped , with her back turned towards us , and , leaning on the balustrade of the terrace , looked down into the garden beyond . 
All in white ? Miss Halcombe repeated . 
The most important sentences in the letter , Mr. Hartright , are those at the end , which I will read to you immediately . 
The doctor may have been wrong when he discovered the child's defects of intellect , and predicted that she would 'grow out of them . 
I said a few words in answer I hardly know what . 
All my attention was concentrated on the white gleam of Miss Fairlie's muslin dress . 
Listen to the last sentences of the letter , said Miss Halcombe . 
I think they will surprise you . 
A thrill of the same feeling which ran through me when the touch was laid upon my shoulder on the lonely high road chilled me again . 
That something wanting was my own recognition of the ominous likeness between the fugitive from the asylum and my pupil at Limmeridge House . 
You see it ! said Miss Halcombe . 
She dropped the useless letter , and her eyes flashed as they met mine . 
You see it now , as my mother saw it eleven years since ! I see it more unwillingly than I can say . 
Let me lose the impression again as soon as possible . 
Call her in , out of the dreary moonlight pray call her in ! Mr. Hartright , you surprise me . 
Whatever women may be , I thought that men , in the nineteenth century , were above superstition . 
Pray call her in ! Hush , hush ! She is coming of her own accord . 
Say nothing in her presence . 
Let this discovery of the likeness be kept a secret between you and me . 
Come in , Laura , come in , and wake Mrs. Vesey with the piano . 
Mr. Hartright is petitioning for some more music , and he wants it , this time , of the lightest and liveliest kind . 
IX So ended my eventful first day at Limmeridge House . 
Miss Halcombe and I kept our secret . 
After the discovery of the likeness no fresh light seemed destined to break over the mystery of the woman in white . 
At the first safe opportunity Miss Halcombe cautiously led her half sister to speak of their mother , of old times , and of Anne Catherick . 
Miss Fairlie's recollections of the little scholar at Limmeridge were , however , only of the most vague and general kind . 
The days passed on , the weeks passed on , and the track of the golden autumn wound its bright way visibly through the green summer of the trees . 
Peaceful , fast flowing , happy time ! my story glides by you now as swiftly as you once glided by me . 
The secret which that confession discloses should be told with little effort , for it has indirectly escaped me already . 
The poor weak words , which have failed to describe Miss Fairlie , have succeeded in betraying the sensations she awakened in me . 
It is so with us all . 
Our words are giants when they do us an injury , and dwarfs when they do us a service . 
Ah ! how well I know all the sadness and all the mockery that is contained in those three words . 
I can sigh over my mournful confession with the tenderest woman who reads it and pities me . 
I can laugh at it as bitterly as the hardest man who tosses it from him in contempt . 
I loved her ! Feel for me , or despise me , I confess it with the same immovable resolution to own the truth . 
Was there no excuse for me ? There was some excuse to be found , surely , in the conditions under which my term of hired service was passed at Limmeridge House . 
My morning hours succeeded each other calmly in the quiet and seclusion of my own room . 
A perilous solitude , for it lasted long enough to enervate , not long enough to fortify me . 
The more attentively she watched every movement of my brush , the more closely I was breathing the perfume of her hair , and the warm fragrance of her breath . 
The evenings which followed the sketching excursions of the afternoon varied , rather than checked , these innocent , these inevitable familiarities . 
I should have remembered my position , and have put myself secretly on my guard . 
I did so , but not till it was too late . 
All the discretion , all the experience , which had availed me with other women , and secured me against other temptations , failed me with her . 
It had been my profession , for years past , to be in this close contact with young girls of all ages , and of all orders of beauty . 
And now I and my trusty talisman were parted for the first time . 
I know , now , that I should have questioned myself from the first . 
The days passed , the weeks passed it was approaching the third month of my stay in Cumberland . 
The delicious monotony of life in our calm seclusion flowed on with me , like a smooth stream with a swimmer who glides down the current . 
All memory of the past , all thought of the future , all sense of the falseness and hopelessness of my own position , lay hushed within me into deceitful rest . 
We had parted one night as usual . 
No word had fallen from my lips , at that time or at any time before it , that could betray me , or startle her into sudden knowledge of the truth . 
But when we met again in the morning , a change had come over her a change that told me all . 
I shrank then I shrink still from invading the innermost sanctuary of her heart , and laying it open to others , as I have laid open my own . 
Her nature , too truthful to deceive others , was too noble to deceive itself . 
It said this , and more , which I could not then interpret . 
But the change meant more than this . 
There was a coldness in her hand , there was an unnatural immobility in her face , there was in all her movements the mute expression of constant fear and clinging self reproach . 
The sensations that I could trace to herself and to me , the unacknowledged sensations that we were feeling in common , were not these . 
There were certain elements of the change in her that were still secretly drawing us together , and others that were , as secretly , beginning to drive us apart . 
Living in such intimacy as ours , no serious alteration could take place in any one of us which did not sympathetically affect the others . 
The change in Miss Fairlie was reflected in her half sister . 
Although not a word escaped Miss Halcombe which hinted at an altered state of feeling towards myself , her penetrating eyes had contracted a new habit of always watching me . 
Sometimes the look was like suppressed anger , sometimes like suppressed dread , sometimes like neither like nothing , in short , which I could understand . 
A week elapsed , leaving us all three still in this position of secret constraint towards one another . 
My situation , aggravated by the sense of my own miserable weakness and forgetfulness of myself , now too late awakened in me , was becoming intolerable . 
From this position of helplessness and humiliation I was rescued by Miss Halcombe . 
X It was on a Thursday in the week , and nearly at the end of the third month of my sojourn in Cumberland . 
Miss Fairlie was out on the lawn . 
She bowed to me , but did not come in . 
She waited on the lawn , and I waited in the breakfast room , till Mrs. Vesey or Miss Halcombe came in . 
How quickly I should have joined her how readily we should have shaken hands , and glided into our customary talk , only a fortnight ago . 
In a few minutes Miss Halcombe entered . 
She had a preoccupied look , and she made her apologies for being late rather absently . 
I have been detained , she said , by a consultation with Mr. Fairlie on a domestic matter which he wished to speak to me about . 
Miss Fairlie came in from the garden , and the usual morning greeting passed between us . 
Her hand struck colder to mine than ever . 
She did not look at me , and she was very pale . 
Even Mrs. Vesey noticed it when she entered the room a moment after . 
I suppose it is the change in the wind , said the old lady . 
Miss Fairlie seemed to feel the oppression of the long pauses in the conversation , and looked appealingly to her sister to fill them up . 
Miss Halcombe , after once or twice hesitating and checking herself , in a most uncharacteristic manner , spoke at last . 
I have seen your uncle this morning , Laura , she said . 
He thinks the purple room is the one that ought to be got ready , and he confirms what I told you . 
Monday is the day not Tuesday . 
While these words were being spoken Miss Fairlie looked down at the table beneath her . 
Her fingers moved nervously among the crumbs that were scattered on the cloth . 
The paleness on her cheeks spread to her lips , and the lips themselves trembled visibly . 
I was not the only person present who noticed this . 
Miss Halcombe saw it , too , and at once set us the example of rising from table . 
Mrs. Vesey and Miss Fairlie left the room together . 
The kind sorrowful blue eyes looked at me , for a moment , with the prescient sadness of a coming and a long farewell . 
I felt the answering pang in my own heart the pang that told me I must lose her soon , and love her the more unchangeably for the loss . 
I turned towards the garden when the door had closed on her . 
Have you any leisure time to spare , she asked , before you begin to work in your own room ? Certainly , Miss Halcombe . 
I have always time at your service . 
I want to say a word to you in private , Mr. Hartright . 
Get your hat and come out into the garden . 
We are not likely to be disturbed there at this hour in the morning . 
As we stepped out on to the lawn , one of the under gardeners a mere lad passed us on his way to the house , with a letter in his hand . 
Is that letter for me ? she asked . 
Nay , miss it's just said to be for Miss Fairlie , answered the lad , holding out the letter as he spoke . 
Miss Halcombe took it from him and looked at the address . 
A strange handwriting , she said to herself . 
Who can Laura's correspondent be ? Where did you get this ? she continued , addressing the gardener . 
Well , miss , said the lad , I just got it from a woman . 
What woman ? A woman well stricken in age . 
Oh , an old woman . 
Any one you knew ? I canna' tak' it on mysel' to say that she was other than a stranger to me . 
Curious , said Miss Halcombe I suppose it must be a begging letter . 
There , she added , handing the letter back to the lad , take it to the house , and give it to one of the servants . 
And now , Mr. Hartright , if you have no objection , let us walk this way . 
She led me across the lawn , along the same path by which I had followed her on the day after my arrival at Limmeridge . 
What I have to say to you I can say here . 
With those words she entered the summer house , took one of the chairs at the little round table inside , and signed to me to take the other . 
I suspected what was coming when she spoke to me in the breakfast room I felt certain of it now . 
Mr. Hartright , she said , I am going to begin by making a frank avowal to you . 
I was predisposed in your favour when you first told me of your conduct towards that unhappy woman whom you met under such remarkable circumstances . 
Your management of the affair might not have been prudent , but it showed the self control , the delicacy , and the compassion of a man who was naturally a gentleman . 
It made me expect good things from you , and you have not disappointed my expectations . 
She paused but held up her hand at the same time , as a sign that she awaited no answer from me before she proceeded . 
When I entered the summer house , no thought was in me of the woman in white . 
But now , Miss Halcombe's own words had put the memory of my adventure back in my mind . 
It remained there throughout the interview remained , and not without a result . 
Mr. Hartright , you have thoughtlessly allowed your self to form an attachment a serious and devoted attachment I am afraid to my sister Laura . 
I don't put you to the pain of confessing it in so many words , because I see and know that you are too honest to deny it . 
I don't even blame you I pity you for opening your heart to a hopeless affection . 
You have not attempted to take any underhand advantage you have not spoken to my sister in secret . 
You are guilty of weakness and want of attention to your own best interests , but of nothing worse . 
As it is , I blame the misfortune of your years and your position I don't blame YOU . 
Shake hands I have given you pain I am going to give you more , but there is no help for it shake hands with your friend , Marian Halcombe , first . 
I tried to look at her when she took my hand , but my eves were dim . 
I tried to thank her , but my voice failed me . 
Listen to me , she said , considerately avoiding all notice of my loss of self control . 
Listen to me , and let us get it over at once . 
You must leave Limmeridge House , Mr. Hartright , before more harm is done . 
Not because you are a teacher of drawing , she repeated , but because Laura Fairlie is engaged to be married . 
The last word went like a bullet to my heart . 
My arm lost all sensation of the hand that grasped it . 
I never moved and never spoke . 
Hopes ! Betrothed , or not betrothed , she was equally far from me . 
Would other men have remembered that in my place ? Not if they had loved her as I did . 
The pang passed , and nothing but the dull numbing pain of it remained . 
I felt Miss Halcombe's hand again , tightening its hold on my arm I raised my head and looked at her . 
Her large black eyes were rooted on me , watching the white change on my face , which I felt , and which she saw . 
Crush it ! she said . 
Here , where you first saw her , crush it ! Don't shrink under it like a woman . 
We both waited for a minute in silence . 
At the end of that time I had justified her generous faith in my manhood I had , outwardly at least , recovered my self control . 
Are you yourself again ? Enough myself , Miss Halcombe , to ask your pardon and hers . 
Enough myself to be guided by your advice , and to prove my gratitude in that way , if I can prove it in no other . 
You have proved it already , she answered , by those words . 
Mr. Hartright , concealment is at an end between us . 
I cannot affect to hide from you what my sister has unconsciously shown to me . 
You must leave us for her sake , as well as for your own . 
Your presence here , your necessary intimacy with us , harmless as it has been , God knows , in all other respects , has unsteadied her and made her wretched . 
I don't say it would be useless to attempt to say it after what has happened that her engagement has ever had a strong hold on her affections . 
after marriage , instead of before . 
your absence will help my efforts , and time will help us all three . 
It is something to know that my first confidence in you was not all misplaced . 
Tell me when to go after that apology is accepted . 
I promise implicit obedience to you and to your advice . 
Time is every way of importance , she answered . 
You heard me refer this morning to Monday next , and to the necessity of setting the purple room in order . 
The visitor whom we expect on Monday I could not wait for her to be more explicit . 
Knowing what I knew now , the memory of Miss Fairlie's look and manner at the breakfast table told me that the expected visitor at Limmeridge House was her future husband . 
I tried to force it back but something rose within me at that moment stronger than my own will , and I interrupted Miss Halcombe . 
Let me go to day , I said bitterly . 
No , not to day , she replied . 
in leaving your unfinished work in as little confusion as possible , and quit this place on Saturday . 
It will be time enough then , Mr. Hartright , for you , and for all of us . 
Before I could assure her that she might depend on my acting in the strictest accordance with her wishes , we were both startled by advancing footsteps in the shrubbery . 
Some one was coming from the house to seek for us ! I felt the blood rush into my cheeks and then leave them again . 
Could I speak to you for a moment , miss ? said the girl , in rather a flurried , unsettled manner . 
Miss Halcombe descended the steps into the shrubbery , and walked aside a few paces with the maid . 
What did it mean ? Were that woman and I to meet once more ? It was possible , at the least . 
Either before or after my mind was not calm enough , then , to remember which . 
A few minutes elapsed before Miss Halcombe dismissed the maid and came back to me . 
She , too , looked flurried and unsettled now . 
We have arranged all that is necessary , Mr. Hartright , she said . 
We have understood each other , as friends should , and we may go back at once to the house . 
To tell you the truth , I am uneasy about Laura . 
We retraced our steps together hastily along the shrubbery path . 
Although Miss Halcombe had ended all that she thought it necessary to say on her side , I had not ended all that I wanted to say on mine . 
It was possible that a future opportunity of putting the question might not easily offer , so I risked asking it on our way back to the house . 
who the gentleman engaged to Miss Fairlie is ? Her mind was evidently occupied with the message she had received from her sister . 
She answered in a hasty , absent way A gentleman of large property in Hampshire . 
Hampshire ! Anne Catherick's native place . 
Again , and yet again , the woman in white . 
There WAS a fatality in it . 
And his name ? I said , as quietly and indifferently as I could . 
I stopped suddenly , and looked at her . 
Sir Percival Glyde , she repeated , imagining that I had not heard her former reply . 
Knight , or Baronet ? I asked , with an agitation that I could hide no longer . 
She paused for a moment , and then answered , rather coldly Baronet , of course . 
XI Not a word more was said , on either side , as we walked back to the house . 
Thoughts that I had hitherto restrained , thoughts that made my position harder than ever to endure , crowded on me now that I was alone . 
She was engaged to be married , and her future husband was Sir Percival Glyde . 
A man of the rank of Baronet , and the owner of property in Hampshire . 
There were hundreds of baronets in England , and dozens of landowners in Hampshire . 
And yet , I did connect him with them . 
I could only feel that what had passed between Miss Halcombe and myself , on our way from the summer house , had affected me very strangely . 
The foreboding of some undiscoverable danger lying hid from us all in the darkness of the future was strong on me . 
I had been engaged with the drawings little more than half an hour , when there was a knock at the door . 
It opened , on my answering and , to my surprise , Miss Halcombe entered the room . 
Her manner was angry and agitated . 
She caught up a chair for herself before I could give her one , and sat down in it , close at my side . 
Mr. Hartright , she said , I had hoped that all painful subjects of conversation were exhausted between us , for to day at least . 
But it is not to be so . 
There is some underhand villainy at work to frighten my sister about her approaching marriage . 
You saw me send the gardener on to the house , with a letter addressed , in a strange handwriting , to Miss Fairlie ? Certainly . 
The letter is an anonymous letter a vile attempt to injure Sir Percival Glyde in my sister's estimation . 
It has so agitated and alarmed her that I have had the greatest possible difficulty in composing her spirits sufficiently to allow me to leave her room and come here . 
I know this is a family matter on which I ought not to consult you , and in which you can feel no concern or interest I beg your pardon , Miss Halcombe . 
I feel the strongest possible concern and interest in anything that affects Miss Fairlie's happiness or yours . 
I am glad to hear you say so . 
You are the only person in the house , or out of it , who can advise me . 
Mr. Fairlie , in his state of health and with his horror of difficulties and mysteries of all kinds , is not to be thought of . 
Tell me what you think , Mr. Hartright . 
If necessity had not already obliged me to take you into my confidence under very delicate circumstances , even my helpless situation would , perhaps , be no excuse for me . 
But as things are I cannot surely be wrong , after all that has passed between us , in forgetting that you are a friend of only three months' standing . 
She gave me the letter . 
It began abruptly , without any preliminary form of address , as follows Do you believe in dreams ? I hope , for your own sake , that you do . 
, and take the warning I send you before it is too late . 
Last night I dreamed about you , Miss Fairlie . 
After a time there walked towards us , down the aisle of the church , a man and a woman , coming to be married . 
The two rays sprang ill arches like two rainbows between me and him . 
I looked along them , and I saw down into his inmost heart . 
The outside of the man you were marrying was fair enough to see . 
He was neither tall nor short he was a little below the middle size . 
A light , active , high spirited man about five and forty years old , to look at . 
He had a pale face , and was bald over the forehead , but had dark hair on the rest of his head . 
His beard was shaven on his chin , but was let to grow , of a fine rich brown , on his cheeks and his upper lip . 
His eyes were brown too , and very bright his nose straight and handsome and delicate enough to have done for a woman's . 
Have I dreamt of the right man ? You know best , Miss Fairlie and you can say if I was deceived or not . 
Read next , what I saw beneath the outside I entreat you , read , and profit . 
I looked along the two rays of light , and I saw down into his inmost heart . 
It was black as night , and on it were written , in the red flaming letters which are the handwriting of the fallen angel , 'Without pity and without remorse . 
He has strewn with misery the paths of others , and he will live to strew with misery the path of this woman by his side . 
I read that , and then the rays of light shifted and pointed over his shoulder and there , behind him , stood a fiend laughing . 
And the rays of light shifted once more , and pointed over your shoulder and there behind you , stood an angel weeping . 
And the rays of light shifted for the third time , and pointed straight between you and that man . 
They widened and widened , thrusting you both asunder , one from the other . 
And the clergyman looked for the marriage service in vain it was gone out of the book , and he shut up the leaves , and put it from him in despair . 
And I woke with my eyes full of tears and my heart beating for I believe in dreams . 
Believe too , Miss Fairlie I beg of you , for your own sake , believe as I do . 
Joseph and Daniel , and others in Scripture , believed in dreams . 
Inquire into the past life of that man with the scar on his hand , before you say the words that make you his miserable wife . 
I don't give you this warning on my account , but on yours . 
I have an interest in your well being that will live as long as I draw breath . 
Your mother's daughter has a tender place in my heart for your mother was my first , my best , my only friend . 
There the extraordinary letter ended , without signature of any sort . 
The handwriting afforded no prospect of a clue . 
It was traced on ruled lines , in the cramped , conventional , copy book character technically termed small hand . 
It was feeble and faint , and defaced by blots , but had otherwise nothing to distinguish it . 
The reference to the bridal dress and veil , and other little expressions , seem to point to it as the production of some woman . 
What do you think , Mr. Hartright ? I think so too . 
It seems to me to be not only the letter of a woman , but of a woman whose mind must be Deranged ? suggested Miss Halcombe . 
It struck me in that light too . 
I began to doubt whether my own faculties were not in danger of losing their balance . 
It seemed almost like a monomania to be tracing back everything strange that happened , everything unexpected that was said , always to the same hidden source and the same sinister influence . 
I think we ought to speak to the gardener again about the elderly woman who gave him the letter , and then to continue our inquiries in the village . 
But first let me ask a question . 
You mentioned just now the alternative of consulting Mr. Fairlie's legal adviser to morrow . 
One of Sir Percival Glyde's objects in coming here on Monday , is to fix the period of his marriage , which has hitherto been left quite unsettled . 
He is anxious that the event should take place before the end of the year . 
Does Miss Fairlie know of that wish ? I asked eagerly . 
She has no suspicion of it , and after what has happened , I shall not take the responsibility upon myself of enlightening her . 
Sir Percival has only mentioned his views to Mr. Fairlie , who has told me himself that he is ready and anxious , as Laura's guardian , to forward them . 
He has written to London , to the family solicitor , Mr. Gilmore . 
Mr. Gilmore happens to be away in Glasgow on business , and he has replied by proposing to stop at Limmeridge House on his way back to town . 
He will arrive to morrow , and will stay with us a few days , so as to allow Sir Percival time to plead his own cause . 
If he succeeds , Mr. Gilmore will then return to London , taking with him his instructions for my sister's marriage settlement . 
The marriage settlement ! The mere hearing of those two words stung me with a jealous despair that was poison to my higher and better instincts . 
The feeling began and ended in reckless , vindictive , hopeless hatred of the man who was to marry her . 
If we are to find out anything , I said , speaking under the new influence which was now directing me , we had better not let another minute slip by us unemployed . 
I can only suggest , once more , the propriety of questioning the gardener a second time , and of inquiring in the village immediately afterwards . 
I think I may be of help to you in both cases , said Miss Halcombe , rising . 
Let us go , Mr. Hartright , at once , and do the best we can together . 
I had the door in my hand to open it for her but I stopped , on a sudden , to ask an important question before we set forth . 
One of the paragraphs of the anonymous letter , I said , contains some sentences of minute personal description . 
I knew that and yet even the mention of his age , when I contrasted it with hers , added to my blind hatred and distrust of him . 
Accurately , Miss Halcombe continued , even to the scar on his right hand , which is the scar of a wound that he received years since when he was travelling in Italy . 
There can be no doubt that every peculiarity of his personal appearance is thoroughly well known to the writer of the letter . 
Even a cough that he is troubled with is mentioned , if I remember right ? Yes , and mentioned correctly . 
He treats it lightly himself , though it sometimes makes his friends anxious about him . 
I hope not , I answered confusedly . 
Perhaps I had no right to ask the question . 
I am not sorry you asked it , she said , for it enables me to do justice to Sir Percival's reputation . 
Not a whisper , Mr. Hartright , has ever reached me , or my family , against him . 
He has fought successfully two contested elections , and has come out of the ordeal unscathed . 
A man who can do that , in England , is a man whose character is established . 
I opened the door for her in silence , and followed her out . 
She had not convinced me . 
If the recording angel had come down from heaven to confirm her , and had opened his book to my mortal eyes , the recording angel would not have convinced me . 
We found the gardener at work as usual . 
No amount of questioning could extract a single answer of any importance from the lad's impenetrable stupidity . 
The woman who had given him the letter was an elderly woman she had not spoken a word to him , and she had gone away towards the south in a great hurry . 
That was all the gardener could tell us . 
The village lay southward of the house . 
So to the village we went next . 
XII Our inquiries at Limmeridge were patiently pursued in all directions , and among all sorts and conditions of people . 
But nothing came of them . 
The course of our useless investigations brought us , in time , to the end of the village at which the schools established by Mrs. Fairlie were situated . 
I am afraid the schoolmaster must have been occupied with his scholars , said Miss Halcombe , just at the time when the woman passed through the village and returned again . 
However , we can but try . 
We entered the playground enclosure , and walked by the schoolroom window to get round to the door , which was situated at the back of the building . 
I stopped for a moment at the window and looked in . 
The schoolmaster was sitting at his high desk , with his back to me , apparently haranguing the pupils , who were all gathered together in front of him , with one exception . 
The door , when we got round to it , was ajar , and the school master's voice reached us plainly , as we both stopped for a minute under the porch . 
Now , boys , said the voice , mind what I tell you . 
If I hear another word spoken about ghosts in this school , it will be the worse for all of you . 
You all see Jacob Postlethwaite standing up on the stool there in disgrace . 
We seem to have chosen an awkward moment for our visit , said Miss Halcombe , pushing open the door at the end of the schoolmaster's address , and leading the way in . 
Our appearance produced a strong sensation among the boys . 
They appeared to think that we had arrived for the express purpose of seeing Jacob Postlethwaite caned . 
Go home all of you to dinner , said the schoolmaster , except Jacob . 
Jacob must stop where he is and the ghost may bring him his dinner , if the ghost pleases . 
Jacob's fortitude deserted him at the double disappearance of his schoolfellows and his prospect of dinner . 
We came here to ask you a question , Mr. Dempster . 
said Miss Halcombe , addressing the schoolmaster and we little expected to find you occupied in exorcising a ghost . 
Most extraordinary , said Miss Halcombe I should not have thought it possible that any of the boys had imagination enough to see a ghost . 
This is a new accession indeed to the hard labour of forming the youthful mind at Limmeridge , and I heartily wish you well through it , Mr. Dempster . 
In the meantime , let me explain why you see me here , and what it is I want . 
She then put the same question to the schoolmaster which we had asked already of almost every one else in the village . 
It was met by the same discouraging answer Mr. Dempster had not set eyes on the stranger of whom we were in search . 
We may as well return to the house , Mr. Hartright , said Miss Halcombe the information we want is evidently not to be found . 
Stuff and nonsense ! You saw nothing of the kind . 
Ghost indeed ! What ghost I beg your pardon , Miss Halcombe , interposed the school master a little uneasily but I think you had better not question the boy . 
The obstinate folly of his story is beyond all belief and you might lead him into ignorantly Ignorantly what ? inquired Miss Halcombe sharply . 
Ignorantly shocking your feelings , said Mr. Dempster , looking very much discomposed . 
Come ! she said , I mean to know all about this . 
You naughty boy , when did you see the ghost ? Yestere'en , at the gloaming , replied Jacob . 
And where was it ? Away yander , in t' kirkyard where a ghaist ought to be . 
Mr. Dempster had already tried several times to speak while Miss Halcombe was examining his pupil , and he now interposed resolutely enough to make himself heard . 
Excuse me , Miss Halcombe , he said , if I venture to say that you are only encouraging the boy by asking him these questions . 
I will merely ask one more , Mr. Dempster , and then I shall be quite satisfied . 
Well , she continued , turning to the boy , and whose ghost was it ? T' ghaist of Mistress Fairlie , answered Jacob in a whisper . 
The effect which this extraordinary reply produced on Miss Halcombe fully justified the anxiety which the schoolmaster had shown to prevent her from hearing it . 
It is useless , she said , to hold such a child as that responsible for what he says . 
I have little doubt that the idea has been put into his head by others . 
I hope indeed , I am sure , Miss Halcombe that you are mistaken , said the schoolmaster . 
The matter begins and ends with the boy's own perversity and folly . 
She merely replied by thanking him for his attention , and by promising to see him again when her doubts were satisfied . 
This said , she bowed , and led the way out of the schoolroom . 
Throughout the whole of this strange scene I had stood apart , listening attentively , and drawing my own conclusions . 
As soon as we were alone again , Miss Halcombe asked me if I had formed any opinion on what I had heard . 
A very strong opinion , I answered the boy's story , as I believe , has a foundation in fact . 
I confess I am anxious to see the monument over Mrs. Fairlie's grave , and to examine the ground about it . 
You shall see the grave . 
She paused after making that reply , and reflected a little as we walked on . 
Must we give up all idea of making any further inquiries , and wait to place the thing in Mr. Gilmore's hands to morrow ? By no means , Miss Halcombe . 
What has happened in the schoolroom encourages me to persevere in the investigation . 
Why does it encourage you ? Because it strengthens a suspicion I felt when you gave me the letter to read . 
I suppose you had your reasons , Mr. Hartright , for concealing that suspicion from me till this moment ? I was afraid to encourage it in myself . 
I thought it was utterly preposterous I distrusted it as the result of some perversity in my own imagination . 
But I can do so no longer . 
She stopped , turned pale , and looked me eagerly in the face . 
What person ? The schoolmaster unconsciously told you . 
When he spoke of the figure that the boy saw in the churchyard he called it 'a woman in white . 
Not Anne Catherick ? Yes , Anne Catherick . 
She put her hand through my arm and leaned on it heavily . 
I don't know why , she said in low tones , but there is something in this suspicion of yours that seems to startle and unnerve me . 
I feel She stopped , and tried to laugh it off . 
Mr. Hartright , she went on , I will show you the grave , and then go back at once to the house . 
I had better not leave Laura too long alone . 
I had better go back and sit with her . 
We were close to the churchyard when she spoke . 
The church , a dreary building of grey stone , was situated in a little valley , so as to be sheltered from the bleak winds blowing over the moorland all round it . 
The burial ground advanced , from the side of the church , a little way up the slope of the hill . 
I need go no farther with you , said Miss Halcombe , pointing to the grave . 
You will let me know if you find anything to confirm the idea you have just mentioned to me . 
Let us meet again at the house . 
I descended at once to the churchyard , and crossed the stile which led directly to Mrs. Fairlie's grave . 
The grass about it was too short , and the ground too hard , to show any marks of footsteps . 
Disappointed thus far , I next looked attentively at the cross , and at the square block of marble below it , on which the inscription was cut . 
The other half , however , attracted my attention at once by its singular freedom from stain or impurity of any kind . 
I looked closer , and saw that it had been cleaned recently cleaned , in a downward direction from top to bottom . 
Who had begun the cleansing of the marble , and who had left it unfinished ? I looked about me , wondering how the question was to be solved . 
No sign of a habitation could be discerned from the point at which I was standing the burial ground was left in the lonely possession of the dead . 
Against one side of the quarry a little two room cottage was built , and just outside the door an old woman was engaged in washing . 
I walked up to her , and entered into conversation about the church and burial ground . 
She was ready enough to talk , and almost the first words she said informed me that her husband filled the two offices of clerk and sexton . 
I said a few words next in praise of Mrs. Fairlie's monument . 
The old woman shook her head , and told me I had not seen it at its best . 
He was getting a little better now , and in a week or ten days' time he hoped to be strong enough to set to work and clean it . 
This information extracted from a long rambling answer in the broadest Cumberland dialect told me all that I most wanted to know . 
I gave the poor woman a trifle , and returned at once to Limmeridge House . 
The partial cleansing of the monument had evidently been accomplished by a strange hand . 
The work of cleansing the monument had been left unfinished , and the person by whom it had been begun might return to complete it . 
On getting back to the house I informed Miss Halcombe of what I intended to do . 
She looked surprised and uneasy while I was explaining my purpose , but she made no positive objection to the execution of it . 
She only said , I hope it may end well . 
Just as she was leaving me again , I stopped her to inquire , as calmly as I could , after Miss Fairlie's health . 
She was in better spirits , and Miss Halcombe hoped she might be induced to take a little walking exercise while the afternoon sun lasted . 
I returned to my own room to resume setting the drawings in order . 
From time to time I paused in my work to look out of window and watch the sky as the sun sank nearer and nearer to the horizon . 
On one of those occasions I saw a figure on the broad gravel walk under my window . 
I had not seen her since the morning , and I had hardly spoken to her then . 
Another day at Limmeridge was all that remained to me , and after that day my eyes might never look on her again . 
This thought was enough to hold me at the window . 
She was dressed in a brown cloak , with a plain black silk gown under it . 
On her head was the same simple straw hat which she had worn on the morning when we first met . 
A veil was attached to it now which hid her face from me . 
She did not seem to notice the dog . 
She walked straight forward , with her head drooping a little , and her arms folded in her cloak . 
The dog shivered and trembled , and pressed against her dress impatiently for notice and encouragement . 
But she never heeded him . 
In another hour's time I had done my work , and the sunset was at hand . 
I got my hat and coat in the hall , and slipped out of the house without meeting any one . 
The clouds were wild in the western heaven , and the wind blew chill from the sea . 
Far as the shore was , the sound of the surf swept over the intervening moorland , and beat drearily in my ears when I entered the churchyard . 
Not a living creature was in sight . 
The place looked lonelier than ever as I chose my position , and waited and watched , with my eyes on the white cross that rose over Mrs. Fairlie's grave . 
XIII The exposed situation of the churchyard had obliged me to be cautious in choosing the position that I was to occupy . 
The main entrance to the church was on the side next to the burial ground , and the door was screened by a porch walled in on either side . 
After some little hesitation , caused by natural reluctance to conceal myself , indispensable as that concealment was to the object in view , I had resolved on entering the porch . 
A loophole window was pierced in each of its side walls . 
Through one of these windows I could see Mrs. Fairlie's grave . 
The other looked towards the stone quarry in which the sexton's cottage was built . 
No living creature was visible or audible no bird flew by me , no dog barked from the sexton's cottage . 
A dreary scene and a dreary hour . 
My spirits sank fast as I counted out the minutes of the evening in my hiding place under the church porch . 
The footsteps were approaching from the other side of the church , and the voice was a woman's . 
Don't you fret , my dear , about the letter , said the voice . 
I gave it to the lad quite safe , and the lad he took it from me without a word . 
He went his way and I went mine , and not a living soul followed me afterwards that I'll warrant . 
These words strung up my attention to a pitch of expectation that was almost painful . 
There was a pause of silence , but the footsteps still advanced . 
In another moment two persons , both women , passed within my range of view from the porch window . 
They were walking straight towards the grave and therefore they had their backs turned towards me . 
One of the women was dressed in a bonnet and shawl . 
The other wore a long travelling cloak of a dark blue colour , with the hood drawn over her head . 
A few inches of her gown were visible below the cloak . 
My heart beat fast as I noted the colour it was white . 
After advancing about half way between the church and the grave they stopped , and the woman in the cloak turned her head towards her companion . 
But her side face , which a bonnet might now have allowed me to see , was hidden by the heavy , projecting edge of the hood . 
Mind you keep that comfortable warm cloak on , said the same voice which I had already heard the voice of the woman in the shawl . 
Mrs. Todd is right about your looking too particular , yesterday , all in white . 
I'll walk about a little while you're here , churchyards being not at all in my way , whatever they may be in yours . 
Finish what you want to do before I come back , and let us be sure and get home again before night . 
With those words she turned about , and retracing her steps , advanced with her face towards me . 
It was the face of an elderly woman , brown , rugged , and healthy , with nothing dishonest or suspicious in the look of it . 
Close to the church she stopped to pull her shawl closer round her . 
Queer , she said to herself , always queer , with her whims and her ways , ever since I can remember her . 
Harmless , though as harmless , poor soul , as a little child . 
She sighed looked about the burial ground nervously shook her head , as if the dreary prospect by no means pleased her , and disappeared round the corner of the church . 
I doubted for a moment whether I ought to follow and speak to her or not . 
My intense anxiety to find myself face to face with her companion helped me to decide in the negative . 
The person who had delivered the letter was of little consequence . 
The person who had written it was the one centre of interest , and the one source of information , and that person I now felt convinced was before me in the churchyard . 
While these ideas were passing through my mind I saw the woman in the cloak approach close to the grave , and stand looking at it for a little while . 
She then glanced all round her , and taking a white linen cloth or handkerchief from under her cloak , turned aside towards the brook . 
She dipped the cloth in the water , and returned to the grave . 
I saw her kiss the white cross , then kneel down before the inscription , and apply her wet cloth to the cleansing of it . 
She was so absorbed over her employment that she did not hear me coming until I had stepped over the stile . 
Then she looked up , started to her feet with a faint cry , and stood facing me in speechless and motionless terror . 
Don't be frightened , I said . 
Surely you remember me ? I stopped while I spoke then advanced a few steps gently then stopped again and so approached by little and little till I was close to her . 
If there had been any doubt still left in my mind , it must have been now set at rest . 
There , speaking affrightedly for itself there was the same face confronting me over Mrs. Fairlie's grave which had first looked into mine on the high road by night . 
You remember me ? I said . 
We met very late , and I helped you to find the way to London . 
Surely you have not forgotten that ? Her features relaxed , and she drew a heavy breath of relief . 
I saw the new life of recognition stirring slowly under the death like stillness which fear had set on her face . 
Don't attempt to speak to me just yet , I went on . 
Take time to recover yourself take time to feel quite certain that I am a friend . 
You are very kind to me , she murmured . 
As kind now as you were then . 
She stopped , and I kept silence on my side . 
I was not granting time for composure to her only , I was gaining time also for myself . 
I tried hard , as I felt this , to possess myself of all my resources I did my utmost to turn the few moments for reflection to the best account . 
Are you calmer now ? I said , as soon as I thought it time to speak again . 
At Limmeridge House ! Her pale face brightened as she repeated the words , her wandering eyes fixed on me with a sudden interest . 
Ah , how happy you must have been ! she said , looking at me eagerly , without a shadow of its former distrust left in her expression . 
I took advantage of her newly aroused confidence in me to observe her face , with an attention and a curiosity which I had hitherto restrained myself from showing , for caution's sake . 
I looked at her , with my mind full of that other lovely face which had so ominously recalled her to my memory on the terrace by moonlight . 
I had seen Anne Catherick's likeness in Miss Fairlie . 
But there the resemblance ended , and the dissimilarity , in details , began . 
I shuddered at the thought . 
There was something horrible in the blind unreasoning distrust of the future which the mere passage of it through my mind seemed to imply . 
It was a welcome interruption to be roused by feeling Anne Catherick's hand laid on my shoulder . 
The touch was as stealthy and as sudden as that other touch which had petrified me from head to foot on the night when we first met . 
You are looking at me , and you are thinking of something , she said , with her strange breathless rapidity of utterance . 
What is it ? Nothing extraordinary , I answered . 
I was only wondering how you came here . 
I came with a friend who is very good to me . 
I have only been here two days . 
And you found your way to this place yesterday ? How do you know that ? I only guessed it . 
She turned from me , and knelt down before the inscription once more . 
Where should I go if not here ? she said . 
The friend who was better than a mother to me is the only friend I have to visit at Limmeridge . 
Oh , it makes my heart ache to see a stain on her tomb ! It ought to be kept white as snow , for her sake . 
I was tempted to begin cleaning it yesterday , and I can't help coming back to go on with it to day . 
Is there anything wrong in that ? I hope not . 
I saw that my best chance of winning her confidence lay in encouraging her to proceed with the artless employment which she had come into the burial ground to pursue . 
She looked up quickly and suspiciously . 
Why ? A strange thing happened after we parted that night . 
Two men overtook me in a chaise . 
They did not see where I was standing , but they stopped near me , and spoke to a policeman on the other side of the way . 
She instantly suspended her employment . 
The hand holding the damp cloth with which she had been cleaning the inscription dropped to her side . 
The other hand grasped the marble cross at the head of the grave . 
Her face turned towards me slowly , with the blank look of terror set rigidly on it once more . 
I went on at all hazards it was too late now to draw back . 
The two men spoke to the policeman , I said , and asked him if he had seen you . 
He had not seen you and then one of the men spoke again , and said you had escaped from his Asylum . 
She sprang to her feet as if my last words had set the pursuers on her track . 
Stop ! and hear the end , I cried . 
Stop ! and you shall know how I befriended you . 
A word from me would have told the men which way you had gone and I never spoke that word . 
I helped your escape I made it safe and certain . 
Think , try to think . 
Try to understand what I tell you . 
My manner seemed to influence her more than my words . 
She made an effort to grasp the new idea . 
Her hands shifted the damp cloth hesitatingly from one to the other , exactly as they had shifted the little travelling bag on the night when I first saw her . 
Slowly the purpose of my words seemed to force its way through the confusion and agitation of her mind . 
Slowly her features relaxed , and her eyes looked at me with their expression gaining in curiosity what it was fast losing in fear . 
YOU don't think I ought to be back in the Asylum , do you ? she said . 
I am glad you escaped from it I am glad I helped you . 
Yes , yes , you did help me indeed you helped me at the hard part , she went on a little vacantly . 
It was easy to escape , or I should not have got away . 
They never suspected me as they suspected the others . 
I was so quiet , and so obedient , and so easily frightened . 
The finding London was the hard part , and there you helped me . 
Did I thank you at the time ? I thank you now very kindly . 
Was the Asylum far from where you met me ? Come ! show that you believe me to be your friend , and tell me where it was . 
You said you had a friend in London to go to . 
Did you find the friend ? Yes . 
It was very late , but there was a girl up at needle work in the house , and she helped me to rouse Mrs. Clements . 
Mrs. Clements is my friend . 
A good , kind woman , but not like Mrs. Fairlie . 
I have no husband alive to say me nay , and no children to look after , and I will take care of you . 
Kind words , were they not ? I suppose I remember them because they were kind . 
Father ? Ah , dear ! he is dead , I suppose . 
And your mother ? I don't get on well with her . 
We are a trouble and a fear to each other . 
Don't ask me about mother , she went on . 
I'd rather talk of Mrs. Clements . 
Mrs. Clements is like you , she doesn't think that I ought to be back in the Asylum , and she is as glad as you are that I escaped from it . 
She cried over my misfortune , and said it must be kept secret from everybody . 
What misfortune ? I asked . 
The misfortune of my being shut up , she answered , with every appearance of feeling surprised at my question . 
What other misfortune could there be ? I determined to persist , as delicately and forbearingly as possible . 
It was of very great importance that I should be absolutely sure of every step in the investigation which I now gained in advance . 
There is another misfortune , I said , to which a woman may be liable , and by which she may suffer lifelong sorrow and shame . 
What is it ? she asked eagerly . 
The misfortune of believing too innocently in her own virtue , and in the faith and honour of the man she loves , I answered . 
She looked up at me with the artless bewilderment of a child . 
That doubt , at any rate , was now set at rest but the very removal of it opened a new prospect of uncertainty . 
The letter , as I knew from positive testimony , pointed at Sir Percival Glyde , though it did not name him . 
Whatever wrong he might have inflicted on her was not of that nature . 
Never mind , I answered . 
Let us go on with what we were talking about . 
Tell me how long you stayed with Mrs. Clements in London , and how you came here . 
How long ? she repeated . 
I stayed with Mrs. Clements till we both came to this place , two days ago . 
You are living in the village , then ? I said . 
It is strange I should not have heard of you , though you have only been here two days . 
No , no , not in the village . 
Three miles away at a farm . 
Do you know the farm ? They call it Todd's Corner . 
I remembered the place perfectly we had often passed by it in our drives . 
It was one of the oldest farms in the neighbourhood , situated in a solitary , sheltered spot , inland at the junction of two hills . 
They are relations of Mrs. Clements at Todd's Corner , she went on , and they had often asked her to go and see them . 
She said she would go , and take me with her , for the quiet and the fresh air . 
It was very kind , was it not ? I would have gone anywhere to be quiet , and safe , and out of the way . 
They are very good people at Todd's Corner . 
I hope I shall stay there a long time . 
How do they know ? Mrs. Fairlie knew best . 
She often wore white herself , and she always dressed her little daughter in white . 
Miss Fairlie was not very well or very happy this morning , I said . 
She murmured a few words , but they were spoken so confusedly , and in such a low tone , that I could not even guess at what they meant . 
Did you ask me why Miss Fairlie was neither well nor happy this morning ? I continued . 
No , she said quickly and eagerly oh no , I never asked that . 
I will tell you without your asking , I went on . 
Miss Fairlie has received your letter . 
She had been down on her knees for some little time past , carefully removing the last weather stains left about the inscription while we were speaking together . 
The first sentence of the words I had just addressed to her made her pause in her occupation , and turn slowly without rising from her knees , so as to face me . 
The second sentence literally petrified her . 
The cloth she had been holding dropped from her hands her lips fell apart all the little colour that there was naturally in her face left it in an instant . 
How do you know ? she said faintly . 
Who showed it to you ? The blood rushed back into her face rushed overwhelmingly , as the sense rushed upon her mind that her own words had betrayed her . 
She struck her hands together in despair . 
I never wrote it , she gasped affrightedly I know nothing about it ! Yes , I said , you wrote it , and you know about it . 
It was wrong to send such a letter , it was wrong to frighten Miss Fairlie . 
She crouched down over the flat stone of the grave , till her face was hidden on it , and made no reply . 
Miss Fairlie will be as good and kind to you as her mother was , if you mean well , I went on . 
Miss Fairlie will keep your secret , and not let you come to any harm . 
You know how I love your child , for your sake ! Oh , Mrs. Fairlie ! Mrs. Fairlie ! tell me how to save her . 
Be my darling and my mother once more , and tell me what to do for the best . 
I heard her lips kissing the stone I saw her hands beating on it passionately . 
The sound and the sight deeply affected me . 
I stooped down , and took the poor helpless hands tenderly in mine , and tried to soothe her . 
She snatched her hands from me , and never moved her face from the stone . 
Come , come , I said gently . 
Try to compose yourself , or you will make me alter my opinion of you . 
Don't let me think that the person who put you in the Asylum might have had some excuse The next words died away on my lips . 
The instant I risked that chance reference to the person who had put her in the Asylum she sprang up on her knees . 
A most extraordinary and startling change passed over her . 
Her eyes dilated in the dim evening light , like the eyes of a wild animal . 
Talk of something else , she said , whispering through her teeth . 
I shall lose myself if you talk of that . 
Every vestige of the gentler thoughts which had filled her mind hardly a minute since seemed to be swept from it now . 
It was evident that the impression left by Mrs. Fairlie's kindness was not , as I had supposed , the only strong impression on her memory . 
With the grateful remembrance of her school days at Limmeridge , there existed the vindictive remembrance of the wrong inflicted on her by her confinement in the Asylum . 
Seeing her as I saw her now , it would have been cruel to think of anything but the necessity and the humanity of restoring her composure . 
I will talk of nothing to distress you , I said soothingly . 
You want something , she answered sharply and suspiciously . 
Don't look at me like that . 
Speak to me tell me what you want . 
I only want you to quiet yourself , and when you are calmer , to think over what I have said . 
Why don't you help me ? she asked , with angry suddenness . 
Yes , yes , I said , I will help you , and you will soon remember . 
I ask you to see Miss Fairlie to morrow and to tell her the truth about the letter . 
Ah ! Miss Fairlie Fairlie Fairlie The mere utterance of the loved familiar name seemed to quiet her . 
Her face softened and grew like itself again . 
You need have no fear of Miss Fairlie , I continued , and no fear of getting into trouble through the letter . 
She knows so much about it already , that you will have no difficulty in telling her all . 
There can be little necessity for concealment where there is hardly anything left to conceal . 
The dark deformity of the expression which had just left her face lowered on it once more , with doubled and trebled intensity . 
The shriek at the name , the reiterated look of hatred and fear that instantly followed , told all . 
Not even a last doubt now remained . 
Her mother was guiltless of imprisoning her in the Asylum . 
A man had shut her up and that man was Sir Percival Glyde . 
The scream had reached other ears than mine . 
I'm coming ! I'm coming ! cried the voice from behind the clump of dwarf trees . 
In a moment more Mrs. Clements hurried into view . 
Who are you ? she cried , facing me resolutely as she set her foot on the stile . 
How dare you frighten a poor helpless woman like that ? She was at Anne Catherick's side , and had put one arm around her , before I could answer . 
What is it , my dear ? she said . 
What has he done to you ? Nothing , the poor creature answered . 
Mrs. Clements turned on me with a fearless indignation , for which I respected her . 
I should be heartily ashamed of myself if I deserved that angry look , I said . 
But I do not deserve it . 
I have unfortunately startled her without intending it . 
This is not the first time she has seen me . 
Ask her yourself , and she will tell you that I am incapable of willingly harming her or any woman . 
I spoke distinctly , so that Anne Catherick might hear and understand me , and I saw that the words and their meaning had reached her . 
Yes , yes , she said he was good to me once he helped me She whispered the rest into her friend's ear . 
Strange , indeed ! said Mrs. Clements , with a look of perplexity . 
It makes all the difference , though . 
I'm sorry I spoke so rough to you , sir but you must own that appearances looked suspicious to a stranger . 
It's more my fault than yours , for humouring her whims , and letting her be alone in such a place as this . 
Come , my dear come home now . 
I thought the good woman looked a little uneasy at the prospect of the walk back , and I offered to go with them until they were both within sight of home . 
Mrs. Clements thanked me civilly , and declined . 
She said they were sure to meet some of the farm labourers as soon as they got to the moor . 
Try to forgive me , I said , when Anne Catherick took her friend's arm to go away . 
Innocent as I had been of any intention to terrify and agitate her , my heart smote me as I looked at the poor , pale , frightened face . 
I will try , she answered . 
But you know too much I'm afraid you'll always frighten me now . 
Mrs. Clements glanced at me , and shook her head pityingly . 
Good night , sir , she said . 
You couldn't help it , I know but I wish it was me you had frightened , and not her . 
They moved away a few steps . 
I thought they had left me , but Anne suddenly stopped , and separated herself from her friend . 
Wait a little , she said . 
I must say good bye . 
She returned to the grave , rested both hands tenderly on the marble cross , and kissed it . 
I'm better now , she sighed , looking up at me quietly . 
She joined her companion again , and they left the burial ground . 
I saw them stop near the church and speak to the sexton's wife , who had come from the cottage , and had waited , watching us from a distance . 
Then they went on again up the path that led to the moor . 
XIV Half an hour later I was back at the house , and was informing Miss Halcombe of all that had happened . 
My mind misgives me , was all she said when I had done . 
My mind misgives me sadly about the future . 
The future may depend , I suggested , on the use we make of the present . 
It is not improbable that Anne Catherick may speak more readily and unreservedly to a woman than she has spoken to me . 
If Miss Fairlie Not to be thought of for a moment , interposed Miss Halcombe , in her most decided manner . 
Let me suggest , then , I continued , that you should see Anne Catherick yourself , and do all you can to win her confidence . 
For my own part , I shrink from the idea of alarming the poor creature a second time , as I have most unhappily alarmed her already . 
Do you see any objection to accompanying me to the farmhouse to morrow ? None whatever . 
I will go anywhere and do anything to serve Laura's interests . 
What did you say the place was called ? You must know it well . 
It is called Todd's Corner . 
Todd's Corner is one of Mr. Fairlie's farms . 
Our dairymaid here is the farmer's second daughter . 
She goes backwards and forwards constantly between this house and her father's farm , and she may have heard or seen something which it may be useful to us to know . 
Shall I ascertain , at once , if the girl is downstairs ? She rang the bell , and sent the servant with his message . 
He returned , and announced that the dairymaid was then at the farm . 
She had not been there for the last three days , and the housekeeper had given her leave to go home for an hour or two that evening . 
I can speak to her to morrow , said Miss Halcombe , when the servant had left the room again . 
In the meantime , let me thoroughly understand the object to be gained by my interview with Anne Catherick . 
Is there no doubt in your mind that the person who confined her in the Asylum was Sir Percival Glyde ? There is not the shadow of a doubt . 
The only mystery that remains is the mystery of his MOTIVE . 
I see where the doubt lies , Mr. Hartright , and I promise you that it shall be set at rest , whether Anne Catherick assists us to morrow or not . 
Sir Percival Glyde shall not be long in this house without satisfying Mr. Gilmore , and satisfying me . 
We parted for the night . 
After breakfast the next morning , an obstacle , which the events of the evening before had put out of my memory , interposed to prevent our proceeding immediately to the farm . 
Fortunately for the probability of this excuse , so far as appearances were concerned , the post brought me two letters from London friends that morning . 
I awaited the man's return , free from the slightest feeling of anxiety about the manner in which his master might receive my application . 
With Mr. Fairlie's leave or without it , I must go . 
I had done with my poor man's touchy pride I had done with all my little artist vanities . 
No insolence of Mr. Fairlie's , if he chose to be insolent , could wound me now . 
The servant returned with a message for which I was not unprepared . 
Mr. Fairlie regretted that the state of his health , on that particular morning , was such as to preclude all hope of his having the pleasure of receiving me . 
He begged , therefore , that I would accept his apologies , and kindly communicate what I had to say in the form of a letter . 
Similar messages to this had reached me , at various intervals , during my three months' residence in the house . 
Throughout the whole of that period Mr. Fairlie had been rejoiced to possess me , but had never been well enough to see me for a second time . 
A more satisfactory arrangement to both sides could not possibly have been adopted . 
It would be hard to say which of us , under the circumstances , felt the most grateful sense of obligation to Mr. Fairlie's accommodating nerves . 
I sat down at once to write the letter , expressing myself in it as civilly , as clearly , and as briefly as possible . 
Mr. Fairlie did not hurry his reply . 
Nearly an hour elapsed before the answer was placed in my hands . 
It has not done so except in the instance of Mr. Hartright himself . 
Accordingly , Mr. Fairlie waives his right of refusal , purely with a view to the preservation of his own tranquillity and informs Mr. Hartright that he may go . 
I folded the letter up , and put it away with my other papers . 
The time had been when I should have resented it as an insult I accepted it now as a written release from my engagement . 
Has Mr. Fairlie given you a satisfactory answer ? she asked as we left the house . 
He has allowed me to go , Miss Halcombe . 
She looked up at me quickly , and then , for the first time since I had known her , took my arm of her own accord . 
I had not felt the man's insolent letter , but I felt deeply the woman's atoning kindness . 
On our way to the farm we arranged that Miss Halcombe was to enter the house alone , and that I was to wait outside , within call . 
, while I waited for her in the near neighbourhood of the house . 
I had fully expected to be left alone for some time . 
To my surprise , however , little more than five minutes had elapsed before Miss Halcombe returned . 
Does Anne Catherick refuse to see you ? I asked in astonishment . 
Anne Catherick is gone , replied Miss Halcombe . 
Gone ? Gone with Mrs. Clements . 
They both left the farm at eight o'clock this morning . 
I could say nothing I could only feel that our last chance of discovery had gone with them . 
All that Mrs. Todd knows about her guests , I know , Miss Halcombe went on , and it leaves me , as it leaves her , in the dark . 
They both came back safe last night , after they left you , and they passed the first part of the evening with Mr. Todd's family as usual . 
Just before supper time , however , Anne Catherick startled them all by being suddenly seized with faintness . 
Does Mrs. Todd know what particular passage in the newspaper affected her in that way ? I inquired . 
No , replied Miss Halcombe . 
She had looked it over , and had seen nothing in it to agitate any one . 
There can be no doubt in either case . 
But what did you hear about her second attack of faintness yesterday evening ? Nothing . 
The cause of it is a complete mystery . 
There was no stranger in the room . 
The only visitor was our dairymaid , who , as I told you , is one of Mr. Todd's daughters , and the only conversation was the usual gossip about local affairs . 
They heard her cry out , and saw her turn deadly pale , without the slightest apparent reason . 
Mrs. Todd and Mrs. Clements took her upstairs , and Mrs. Clements remained with her . 
It was quite useless to press Mrs. Clements to be more explicit . 
She only shook her head , and said that , for Anne's sake , she must beg and pray that no one would question her . 
I spare you the recital of Mrs. Todd's hospitable remonstrances and refusals . 
It ended in her driving them both to the nearest station , more than three hours since . 
That is exactly what has taken place . 
Did you inquire particularly about the gossip which was going on in the room when she turned faint ? Yes . 
But Mrs. Todd's household affairs seem to have divided her attention that evening with the talk in the farmhouse parlour . 
She could only tell me that it was 'just the news , meaning , I suppose , that they all talked as usual about each other . 
The dairymaid's memory may be better than her mother's , I said . 
It may be as well for you to speak to the girl , Miss Halcombe , as soon as we get back . 
My suggestion was acted on the moment we returned to the house . 
I have brought this gentleman to see your dairy , Hannah , said Miss Halcombe . 
It is one of the sights of the house , and it always does you credit . 
The girl blushed and curtseyed , and said shyly that she hoped she always did her best to keep things neat and clean . 
We have just come from your father's , Miss Halcombe continued . 
You were there yesterday evening , I hear , and you found visitors at the house ? Yes , miss . 
One of them was taken faint and ill , I am told . 
I suppose nothing was said or done to frighten her ? You were not talking of anything very terrible , were you ? Oh no , miss ! said the girl , laughing . 
We were only talking of the news . 
Your sisters told you the news at Todd's Corner , I suppose ? Yes , miss . 
And you told them the news at Limmeridge House ? Yes , miss . 
And I'm quite sure nothing was said to frighten the poor thing , for I was talking when she was taken ill . 
It gave me quite a turn , miss , to see it , never having been taken faint myself . 
Before any more questions could be put to her , she was called away to receive a basket of eggs at the dairy door . 
As she left us I whispered to Miss Halcombe Ask her if she happened to mention , last night , that visitors were expected at Limmeridge House . 
Miss Halcombe showed me , by a look , that she understood , and put the question as soon as the dairymaid returned to us . 
Oh yes , miss , I mentioned that , said the girl simply . 
The company coming , and the accident to the brindled cow , was all the news I had to take to the farm . 
Did you mention names ? Did you tell them that Sir Percival Glyde was expected on Monday ? Yes , miss I told them Sir Percival Glyde was coming . 
I hope there was no harm in it I hope I didn't do wrong . 
Oh no , no harm . 
Come , Mr. Hartright , Hannah will begin to think us in the way , if we interrupt her any longer over her work . 
We stopped and looked at one another the moment we were alone again . 
Is there any doubt in your mind , NOW , Miss Halcombe ? Sir Percival Glyde shall remove that doubt , Mr. Hartright or Laura Fairlie shall never be his wife . 
XV As we walked round to the front of the house a fly from the railway approached us along the drive . 
I looked at him , when we were introduced to each other , with an interest and a curiosity which I could hardly conceal . 
In external appearance Mr. Gilmore was the exact opposite of the conventional idea of an old lawyer . 
I left the old gentleman and Miss Halcombe to enter the house together , and to talk of family matters undisturbed by the restraint of a stranger's presence . 
They crossed the hall on their way to the drawing room , and I descended the steps again to wander about the garden alone . 
My hours were numbered at Limmeridge House my departure the next morning was irrevocably settled my share in the investigation which the anonymous letter had rendered necessary was at an end . 
The winter bareness spread drearily over it now . 
The leaves fell about me from the groaning branches , and the earthy decay in the atmosphere chilled me to the bones . 
A little farther on , and I was out of the grounds , and following the lane that wound gently upward to the nearest hills . 
I gained the summit of the hill , and looked at the view which we had so often admired in the happier time . 
It was cold and barren it was no longer the view that I remembered . 
The sunshine of her presence was far from me the charm of her voice no longer murmured in my ear . 
The empty silence of the beach struck cold to my heart . 
I returned to the house and the garden , where traces were left to speak of her at every turn . 
On the west terrace walk I met Mr. Gilmore . 
He was evidently in search of me , for he quickened his pace when we caught sight of each other . 
The state of my spirits little fitted me for the society of a stranger but the meeting was inevitable , and I resigned myself to make the best of it . 
You are the very person I wanted to see , said the old gentleman . 
I had two words to say to you , my dear sir and If you have no objection I will avail myself of the present opportunity . 
My dear sir , make yourself quite easy on that point it will be placed in MY hands . 
You are , in every way , Mr. Gilmore , much fitter to advise and to act in the matter than I am . 
I mean to send a copy of the letter , accompanied by a statement of the circumstances , to Sir Percival Glyde's solicitor in London , with whom I have some acquaintance . 
The letter itself I shall keep here to show to Sir Percival as soon as he arrives . 
The tracing of the two women I have already provided for , by sending one of Mr. Fairlie's servants a confidential person to the station to make inquiries . 
The man has his money and his directions , and he will follow the women in the event of his finding any clue . 
This is all that can be done until Sir Percival comes on Monday . 
I have no doubt myself that every explanation which can be expected from a gentleman and a man of honour , he will readily give . 
Sir Percival stands very high , sir an eminent position , a reputation above suspicion I feel quite easy about results quite easy , I am rejoiced to assure you . 
Things of this sort happen constantly in my experience . 
Anonymous letters unfortunate woman sad state of society . 
I don't deny that there are peculiar complications in this case but the case itself is , most unhappily , common common . 
I am afraid , Mr. Gilmore , I have the misfortune to differ from you in the view I take of the case . 
Just so , my dear sir just so . 
I am an old man , and I take the practical view . 
You are a young man , and you take the romantic view . 
Let us not dispute about our views . 
I live professionally in an atmosphere of disputation , Mr. Hartright , and I am only too glad to escape from it , as I am escaping here . 
We will wait for events yes , yes , yes we will wait for events . 
Good shooting ? Probably not , none of Mr. Fairlie's land is preserved , I think . 
Charming place , though , and delightful people . 
You draw and paint , I hear , Mr. Hartright ? Enviable accomplishment . 
What style ? We dropped into general conversation , or rather , Mr. Gilmore talked and I listened . 
My attention was far from him , and from the topics on which he discoursed so fluently . 
The solitary walk of the last two hours had wrought its effect on me it had set the idea in my mind of hastening my departure from Limmeridge House . 
Why not end it there and then ? I determined to end it . 
There were some hours of daylight still left there was no reason why my journey back to London should not begin on that afternoon . 
I made the first civil excuse that occurred to me for leaving Mr. Gilmore , and returned at once to the house . 
On my way up to my own room I met Miss Halcombe on the stairs . 
She saw , by the hurry of my movements and the change in my manner , that I had some new purpose in view , and asked what had happened . 
I told her the reasons which induced me to think of hastening my departure , exactly as I have told them here . 
No , no , she said , earnestly and kindly , leave us like a friend break bread with us once more . 
Stay here and dine , stay here and help us to spend our last evening with you as happily , as like our first evenings , as we can . 
It is my invitation Mrs. Vesey's invitation she hesitated a little , and then added , Laura's invitation as well . 
God knows I had no wish to leave even the shadow of a sorrowful impression with any one of them . 
My own room was the best place for me till the dinner bell rang . 
I waited there till it was time to go downstairs . 
I had not spoken to Miss Fairlie I had not even seen her all that day . 
The first meeting with her , when I entered the drawing room , was a hard trial to her self control and to mine . 
She , too , had done her best to make our last evening renew the golden bygone time the time that could never come again . 
My heart could take her no closer to me , or I should have loved her then as I had never loved her yet . 
Mr. Gilmore was a great assistance to us . 
He was in high good humour , and he led the conversation with unflagging spirit . 
Miss Halcombe seconded him resolutely , and I did all I could to follow her example . 
The kind blue eyes , whose slightest changes of expression I had learnt to interpret so well , looked at me appealingly when we first sat down to table . 
Help my sister the sweet anxious face seemed to say help my sister , and you will help me . 
We got through the dinner , to all outward appearance at least , happily enough . 
The servant who had been despatched to trace Anne Catherick and Mrs. Clements returned with his report , and was shown into the dining room immediately . 
You went to Carlisle , of course , when you heard that ? I did , sir , but I am sorry to say I could find no further trace of them . 
You inquired at the railway ? Yes , sir . 
And at the different inns ? Yes , sir . 
And you left the statement I wrote for you at the police station ? I did , sir . 
Well , my friend , you have done all you could , and I have done all I could , and there the matter must rest till further notice . 
We have played our trump cards , Mr. Hartright , continued the old gentleman when the servant had withdrawn . 
For the present , at least , the women have outmanoeuvred us , and our only resource now is to wait till Sir Percival Glyde comes here on Monday next . 
Won't you fill your glass again ? Good bottle of port , that sound , substantial , old wine . 
I have got better in my own cellar , though . 
Its aspect was altered since the days had shortened and the weather had grown cold . 
The glass doors on the terrace side were closed , and hidden by thick curtains . 
Instead of the soft twilight obscurity , in which we used to sit , the bright radiant glow of lamplight now dazzled my eyes . 
All was changed in doors and out all was changed . 
Miss Halcombe and Mr. Gilmore sat down together at the card table Mrs. Vesey took her customary chair . 
There was no restraint on the disposal of THEIR evening , and I felt the restraint on the disposal of mine all the more painfully from observing it . 
I saw Miss Fairlie lingering near the music stand . 
The time had been when I might have joined her there . 
I waited irresolutely I knew neither where to go nor what to do next . 
She cast one quick glance at me , took a piece of music suddenly from the stand , and came towards me of her own accord . 
Before I could thank her she hastened to the piano . 
The chair near it , which I had always been accustomed to occupy , stood empty . 
She struck a few chords then glanced round at me then looked back again at her music . 
Won't you take your old place ? she said , speaking very abruptly and in very low tones . 
I may take it on the last night , I answered . 
I shall remember those kind words , Miss Fairlie , long after to morrow has come and gone . 
The paleness grew whiter on her face , and she turned it farther away from me . 
Don't speak of to morrow , she said . 
Let the music speak to us of to night , in a happier language than ours . 
Her lips trembled a faint sigh fluttered from them , which she tried vainly to suppress . 
Her fingers wavered on the piano she struck a false note , confused herself in trying to set it right , and dropped her hands angrily on her lap . 
Miss Halcombe and Mr. Gilmore looked up in astonishment from the card table at which they were playing . 
Even Mrs. Vesey , dozing in her chair , woke at the sudden cessation of the music , and inquired what had happened . 
You play at whist , Mr. Hartright ? asked Miss Halcombe , with her eyes directed significantly at the place I occupied . 
I knew what she meant I knew she was right , and I rose at once to go to the card table . 
As I left the piano Miss Fairlie turned a page of the music , and touched the keys again with a surer hand . 
I WILL play it , she said , striking the notes almost passionately . 
I WILL play it on the last night . 
Come , Mrs. Vesey , said Miss Halcombe , Mr. Gilmore and I are tired of ecarte come and be Mr. Hartright's partner at whist . 
The old lawyer smiled satirically . 
His had been the winning hand , and he had just turned up a king . 
He evidently attributed Miss Halcombe's abrupt change in the card table arrangements to a lady's inability to play the losing game . 
The rest of the evening passed without a word or a look from her . 
She kept her place at the piano , and I kept mine at the card table . 
She played unintermittingly played as if the music was her only refuge from herself . 
But still , change and waver as they might in the expression they imparted to the music , their resolution to play never faltered . 
She only rose from the piano when we all rose to say Good night . 
Mrs. Vesey was the nearest to the door , and the first to shake hands with me . 
I shall not see you again , Mr. Hartright , said the old lady . 
I am truly sorry you are going away . 
You have been very kind and attentive , and an old woman like me feels kindness and attention . 
I wish you happy , sir I wish you a kind good bye . 
I hope we shall have a future opportunity of bettering our acquaintance , Mr. Hartright . 
You quite understand about that little matter of business being safe in my hands ? Yes , yes , of course . 
Bless me , how cold it is ! Don't let me keep you at the door . 
Bon voyage , my dear sir bon voyage , as the French say . 
Half past seven to morrow morning , she said then added in a whisper , I have heard and seen more than you think . 
Your conduct to night has made me your friend for life . 
I could not trust myself to look at her when I took her hand , and when I thought of the next morning . 
My departure must be a very early one , I said . 
I shall be gone , Miss Fairlie , before you No , no , she interposed hastily , not before I am out of my room . 
I shall be down to breakfast with Marian . 
I am not so ungrateful , not so forgetful of the past three months Her voice failed her , her hand closed gently round mine then dropped it suddenly . 
Before I could say Good night she was gone . 
The end comes fast to meet me comes inevitably , as the light of the last morning came at Limmeridge House . 
It was barely half past seven when I went downstairs , but I found them both at the breakfast table waiting for me . 
In the chill air , in the dim light , in the gloomy morning silence of the house , we three sat down together , and tried to eat , tried to talk . 
The struggle to preserve appearances was hopeless and useless , and I rose to end it . 
As I held out my hand , as Miss Halcombe , who was nearest to me , took it , Miss Fairlie turned away suddenly and hurried from the room . 
Better so , said Miss Halcombe , when the door had closed better so , for you and for her . 
I waited a moment before I could speak it was hard to lose her , without a parting word or a parting look . 
I controlled myself I tried to take leave of Miss Halcombe in fitting terms but all the farewell words I would fain have spoken dwindled to one sentence . 
Have I deserved that you should write to me ? was all I could say . 
You have nobly deserved everything that I can do for you , as long as we both live . 
Whatever the end is you shall know it . 
And if I can ever be of help again , at any future time , long after the memory of my presumption and my folly is forgotten I could add no more . 
My voice faltered , my eyes moistened in spite of me . 
I will trust you if ever the time comes I will trust you as my friend and HER friend , as my brother and HER brother . 
She stopped , drew me nearer to her the fearless , noble creature touched my forehead , sister like , with her lips , and called me by my Christian name . 
God bless you , Walter ! she said . 
Wait here alone and compose yourself I had better not stay for both our sakes I had better see you go from the balcony upstairs . 
A minute passed it could hardly have been more when I heard the door open again softly , and the rustling of a woman's dress on the carpet moved towards me . 
My heart beat violently as I turned round . 
Miss Fairlie was approaching me from the farther end of the room . 
She stopped and hesitated when our eyes met , and when she saw that we were alone . 
I only went into the drawing room , she said , to look for this . 
It may remind you of your visit here , and of the friends you leave behind you . 
The paper trembled in her hand as she held it out to me trembled in mine as I took it from her . 
I was afraid to say what I felt I only answered , It shall never leave me all my life long it shall be the treasure that I prize most . 
I am very grateful for it very grateful to you , for not letting me go away without bidding you good bye . 
I promise it , she said in broken tones . 
Oh , don't look at me like that ! I promise it with all my heart . 
I ventured a little nearer to her , and held out my hand . 
You have many friends who love you , Miss Fairlie . 
Your happy future is the dear object of many hopes . 
May I say , at parting , that it is the dear object of MY hopes too ? The tears flowed fast down her cheeks . 
She rested one trembling hand on the table to steady herself while she gave me the other . 
I took it in mine I held it fast . 
For God's sake , leave me ! she said faintly . 
The confession of her heart's secret burst from her in those pleading words . 
I had no right to hear them , no right to answer them they were the words that banished me , in the name of her sacred weakness , from the room . 
I dropped her hand , I said no more . 
The blinding tears shut her out from my eyes , and I dashed them away to look at her for the last time . 
One look as she sank into a chair , as her arms fell on the table , as her fair head dropped on them wearily . 
One farewell look , and the door had closed upon her the great gulf of separation had opened between us the image of Laura Fairlie was a memory of the past already . 
The End of Hartright's Narrative . 
I I write these lines at the request of my friend , Mr. Walter Hartright . 
They are intended to convey a description of certain events which seriously affected Miss Fairlie's interests , and which took place after the period of Mr. Hartright's departure from Limmeridge House . 
My appearance here , as narrator , is the necessary consequence of this arrangement . 
I was present during the sojourn of Sir Percival Glyde in Cumberland , and was personally concerned in one important result of his short residence under Mr. Fairlie's roof . 
I arrived at Limmeridge House on Friday the second of November . 
My object was to remain at Mr. Fairlie's until the arrival of Sir Percival Glyde . 
On the Friday I was not favoured by Mr. Fairlie with an interview . 
He had been , or had fancied himself to be , an invalid for years past , and he was not well enough to receive me . 
Miss Halcombe was the first member of the family whom I saw . 
She met me at the house door , and introduced me to Mr. Hartright , who had been staying at Limmeridge for some time past . 
I did not see Miss Fairlie until later in the day , at dinner time . 
She was not looking well , and I was sorry to observe it . 
She is a sweet lovable girl , as amiable and attentive to every one about her as her excellent mother used to be though , personally speaking , she takes after her father . 
Mrs. Fairlie had dark eyes and hair , and her elder daughter , Miss Halcombe , strongly reminds me of her . 
Miss Fairlie played to us in the evening not so well as usual , I thought . 
We had a rubber at whist , a mere profanation , so far as play was concerned , of that noble game . 
I had been favourably impressed by Mr. Hartright on our first introduction to one another , but I soon discovered that he was not free from the social failings incidental to his age . 
There are three things that none of the young men of the present generation can do . 
They can't sit over their wine , they can't play at whist , and they can't pay a lady a compliment . 
Mr. Hartright was no exception to the general rule . 
Otherwise , even in those early days and on that short acquaintance , he struck me as being a modest and gentlemanlike young man . 
On the Saturday Mr. Hartright had left before I got down to breakfast . 
Miss Fairlie kept her room all day , and Miss Halcombe appeared to me to be out of spirits . 
The house was not what it used to be in the time of Mr. and Mrs. Philip Fairlie . 
They were not what they used to be either . 
At two o'clock Mr. Fairlie sent to say he was well enough to see me . 
HE had not altered , at any rate , since I first knew him . 
His talk was to the same purpose as usual all about himself and his ailments , his wonderful coins , and his matchless Rembrandt etchings . 
The moment I tried to speak of the business that had brought me to his house , he shut his eyes and said I upset him . 
I persisted in upsetting him by returning again and again to the subject . 
In the meantime , there I saw him , a helpless sufferer , confined to his room . 
As matters stood , therefore , I was neither surprised nor disappointed at the result of the interview . 
Mr. Fairlie had simply justified my expectations and there was an end of it . 
Sunday was a dull day , out of doors and in . 
A letter arrived for me from Sir Percival Glyde's solicitor , acknowledging the receipt of my copy of the anonymous letter and my accompanying statement of the case . 
Miss Fairlie joined us in the afternoon , looking pale and depressed , and altogether unlike herself . 
I had some talk with her , and ventured on a delicate allusion to Sir Percival . 
She listened and said nothing . 
All other subjects she pursued willingly , but this subject she allowed to drop . 
I began to doubt whether she might not be repenting of her engagement just as young ladies often do , when repentance comes too late . 
On Monday Sir Percival Glyde arrived . 
I found him to be a most prepossessing man , so far as manners and appearance were concerned . 
Miss Fairlie was not with us when he arrived , but she entered the room about ten minutes afterwards . 
Sir Percival rose and paid his compliments with perfect grace . 
Sir Percival neither noticed the restraint in her reception of him , nor her sudden withdrawal from our society . 
He had not obtruded his attentions on her while she was present , and he did not embarrass Miss Halcombe by any allusion to her departure when she was gone . 
His tact and taste were never at fault on this or on any other occasion while I was in his company at Limmeridge House . 
As soon as Miss Fairlie had left the room he spared us all embarrassment on the subject of the anonymous letter , by adverting to it of his own accord . 
On hearing him express himself to this effect , I offered him the original letter , which I had kept for his inspection . 
He thanked me , and declined to look at it , saying that he had seen the copy , and that he was quite willing to leave the original in our hands . 
The statement itself , on which he immediately entered , was as simple and satisfactory as I had all along anticipated it would be . 
Mrs. Catherick , he informed us , had in past years laid him under some obligations for faithful services rendered to his family connections and to himself . 
To that hatred and distrust which had expressed itself in various ways in the Asylum the anonymous letter , written after her escape , was plainly attributable . 
, he was ready to answer any question and to clear up any uncertainty . 
I was the first to speak in answer to this appeal . 
My own course was plain to me . 
It is the great beauty of the Law that it can dispute any human statement , made under any circumstances , and reduced to any form . 
If I had felt professionally called upon to set up a case against Sir Percival Glyde , on the strength of his own explanation , I could have done so beyond all doubt . 
But my duty did not lie in this direction my function was of the purely judicial kind . 
My own conviction was that they were plainly with him , and I accordingly declared that his explanation was , to my mind , unquestionably a satisfactory one . 
I am unable to say , positively , whether Sir Percival noticed this or not . 
My opinion is that he did , seeing that he pointedly resumed the subject , although he might now , with all propriety , have allowed it to drop . 
If my plain statement of facts had only been addressed to Mr. Gilmore , he said , I should consider any further reference to this unhappy matter as unnecessary . 
But my position with a lady is not the same . 
I owe to her what I would concede to no man alive a PROOF of the truth of my assertion . 
You cannot ask for that proof , Miss Halcombe , and it is therefore my duty to you , and still more to Miss Fairlie , to offer it . 
I saw Miss Halcombe change colour , and look a little uneasy . 
I hope , Sir Percival , you don't do me the injustice to suppose that I distrust you , she said quickly . 
Certainly not , Miss Halcombe . 
I make my proposal purely as an act of attention to YOU . 
Let me beg you to write the note , he said , as a favour to ME . 
It need not occupy you more than a few minutes . 
You have only to ask Mrs. Catherick two questions . 
First , if her daughter was placed in the Asylum with her knowledge and approval . 
You oblige me to grant your request , Sir Percival , when I would much rather refuse it . 
With those words Miss Halcombe rose from her place and went to the writing table . 
Sir Percival thanked her , handed her a pen , and then walked away towards the fireplace . 
Miss Fairlie's little Italian greyhound was lying on the rug . 
He held out his hand , and called to the dog good humouredly . 
Perhaps his temper is irritable at times . 
If so , I can sympathise with him . 
My temper is irritable at times too . 
Miss Halcombe was not long in writing the note . 
When it was done she rose from the writing table , and handed the open sheet of paper to Sir Percival . 
He bowed , took it from her , folded it up immediately without looking at the contents , sealed it , wrote the address , and handed it back to her in silence . 
I never saw anything more gracefully and more becomingly done in my life . 
You insist on my posting this letter , Sir Percival ? said Miss Halcombe . 
I beg you will post it , he answered . 
And now that it is written and sealed up , allow me to ask one or two last questions about the unhappy woman to whom it refers . 
I have read the communication which Mr. Gilmore kindly addressed to my solicitor , describing the circumstances under which the writer of the anonymous letter was identified . 
But there are certain points to which that statement does not refer . 
Did Anne Catherick see Miss Fairlie ? Certainly not , replied Miss Halcombe . 
Did she see you ? No. She saw nobody from the house then , except a certain Mr. Hartright , who accidentally met with her in the churchyard here ? Nobody else . 
At a farm on the moor , called Todd's Corner . 
It is a duty we all owe to the poor creature herself to trace her , continued Sir Percival . 
She may have said something at Todd's Corner which may help us to find her . 
I will go there and make inquiries on the chance . 
Miss Halcombe promised to comp y with his request . 
He thanked her , nodded pleasantly , and left us , to go and establish himself in his own room . 
As he opened the door the cross grained greyhound poked out her sharp muzzle from under the sofa , and barked and snapped at him . 
A good morning's work , Miss Halcombe , I said , as soon as we were alone . 
Here is an anxious day well ended already . 
Yes , she answered no doubt . 
I am very glad your mind is satisfied . 
I was a little surprised perhaps a little piqued also by these last words . 
But I am quite at a loss to understand what useful influence his presence could have exercised in relation to the effect of Sir Percival's statement on your mind or mine . 
It was only a fancy , she said absently . 
There is no need to discuss it , Mr. Gilmore . 
Your experience ought to be , and is , the best guide I can desire . 
I did not altogether like her thrusting the whole responsibility , in this marked manner , on my shoulders . 
If Mr. Fairlie had done it , I should not have been surprised . 
But resolute , clear minded Miss Halcombe was the very last person in the world whom I should have expected to find shrinking from the expression of an opinion of her own . 
If the answer to your note of inquiry proves to be satisfactory , I for one cannot see what more any friend of Sir Percival's can possibly expect from him . 
Then we will post the note , she said , rising to leave the room , and dismiss all further reference to the subject until the answer arrives . 
Don't attach any weight to my hesitation . 
I can give no better reason for it than that I have been over anxious about Laura lately and anxiety , Mr. Gilmore , unsettles the strongest of us . 
She left me abruptly , her naturally firm voice faltering as she spoke those last words . 
A sensitive , vehement , passionate nature a woman of ten thousand in these trivial , superficial times . 
I could see no cause for any uneasiness or any doubt , but she had made me a little uneasy , and a little doubtful , nevertheless . 
In my youth , I should have chafed and fretted under the irritation of my own unreasonable state of mind . 
In my age , I knew better , and went out philosophically to walk it off . 
II We all met again at dinner time . 
The only trace of his former self that I could detect reappeared , every now and then , in his manner towards Miss Fairlie . 
Rather to my surprise , Miss Fairlie appeared to be sensible of his attentions without being moved by them . 
She was a little confused from time to time when he looked at her , or spoke to her but she never warmed towards him . 
On the next day , the Tuesday , Sir Percival went in the morning to Todd's Corner . 
His inquiries , as I afterwards heard , led to no results . 
On his return he had an interview with Mr. Fairlie , and in the afternoon he and Miss Halcombe rode out together . 
Nothing else happened worthy of record . 
The evening passed as usual . 
There was no change in Sir Percival , and no change in Miss Fairlie . 
The Wednesday's post brought with it an event the reply from Mrs. Catherick . 
I took a copy of the document , which I have preserved , and which I may as well present in this place . 
Be pleased to accept my answer in the affirmative to both those questions , and believe me to remain , your obedient servant , JANE ANNE CATHERICK . 
This was my opinion , and with certain minor reservations , Miss Halcombe's opinion also . 
Sir Percival , when the letter was shown to him , did not appear to be struck by the sharp , short tone of it . 
He told us that Mrs. Catherick was a woman of few words , a clear headed , straightforward , unimaginative person , who wrote briefly and plainly , just as she spoke . 
The next duty to be accomplished , now that the answer had been received , was to acquaint Miss Fairlie with Sir Percival's explanation . 
Sir Percival had gone out a minute before to look at the stables , and no one was in the room but ourselves . 
I suppose we have really and truly done all we can ? she said , turning and twisting Mrs. Catherick's letter in her hand . 
But if we are enemies who suspect him That alternative is not even to be thought of , she interposed . 
We are Sir Percival's friends , and if generosity and forbearance can add to our regard for him , we ought to be Sir Percival's admirers as well . 
You know that he saw Mr. Fairlie yesterday , and that he afterwards went out with me . 
I saw you riding away together . 
We began the ride by talking about Anne Catherick , and about the singular manner in which Mr. Hartright met with her . 
But we soon dropped that subject , and Sir Percival spoke next , in the most unselfish terms , of his engagement with Laura . 
If , however , there was any more serious reason for the change , he would entreat that no constraint might be placed on her inclinations either by Mr. Fairlie or by me . 
No man could say more than that , Miss Halcombe . 
As to my experience , few men in his situation would have said as much . 
She paused after I had spoken those words , and looked at me with a singular expression of perplexity and distress . 
I accuse nobody , and I suspect nothing , she broke out abruptly . 
But I cannot and will not accept the responsibility of persuading Laura to this marriage . 
That is exactly the course which Sir Percival Glyde has himself requested you to take , I replied in astonishment . 
He has begged you not to force her inclinations . 
And he indirectly obliges me to force them , if I give her his message . 
How can that possibly be ? Consult your own knowledge of Laura , Mr. Gilmore . 
I own that I was a little shocked at this view of the case . 
Do you think I would remain an instant in the company of any man whom I suspected of such baseness as that ? she asked angrily . 
I liked to feel her hearty indignation flash out on me in that way . 
We see so much malice and so little indignation in my profession . 
In that case , I said , excuse me if I tell you , in our legal phrase , that you are travelling out of the record . 
If that unlucky letter has prejudiced her against him , go at once , and tell her that he has cleared himself in your eyes and in mine . 
With those words she suddenly rose and left me . 
I thought this hard on both of us , especially on Sir Percival . 
My doubts or to speak more correctly , my convictions were confirmed by Miss Halcombe's language and manner when I saw her again later in the day . 
She was suspiciously brief and reserved in telling me the result of her interview with her sister . 
If Sir Percival would consent to spare her for the present , she would undertake to give him his final answer before the end of the year . 
The purely temporary arrangement thus proposed might have been convenient enough to the young lady , but it proved somewhat embarrassing to the writer of these lines . 
That morning's post had brought a letter from my partner , which obliged me to return to town the next day by the afternoon train . 
It was extremely probable that I should find no second opportunity of presenting myself at Limmeridge House during the remainder of the year . 
I said nothing about this difficulty until Sir Percival had been consulted on the subject of the desired delay . 
He was too gallant a gentleman not to grant the request immediately . 
She did not come down to dinner , or join us in the evening . 
Indisposition was the excuse , and I thought Sir Percival looked , as well he might , a little annoyed when he heard of it . 
The next morning , as soon as breakfast was over , I went up to Miss Fairlie's sitting room . 
I led her back to the chair from which she had risen , and placed myself opposite to her . 
Her cross grained pet greyhound was in the room , and I fully expected a barking and snapping reception . 
Strange to say , the whimsical little brute falsified my expectations by jumping into my lap and poking its sharp muzzle familiarly into my hand the moment I sat down . 
You used often to sit on my knee when you were a child . 
my dear , I said , and now your little dog seems determined to succeed you in the vacant throne . 
Is that pretty drawing your doing ? I pointed to a little album which lay on the table by her side and which she had evidently been looking over when I came in . 
The page that lay open had a small water colour landscape very neatly mounted on it . 
On this occasion they wandered to the album , and toyed absently about the margin of the little water colour drawing . 
The expression of melancholy deepened on her face . 
She did not look at the drawing , or look at me . 
Her eyes moved uneasily from object to object in the room , betraying plainly that she suspected what my purpose was in coming to speak to her . 
Seeing that , I thought it best to get to the purpose with as little delay as possible . 
One of the errands , my dear , which brings me here is to bid you good bye , I began . 
I must get back to London to day and , before I leave , I want to have a word with you on the subject of your own affairs . 
I am very sorry you are going , Mr. Gilmore , she said , looking at me kindly . 
It is like the happy old times to have you here . 
I am your old lawyer and your old friend , and I may remind you , I am sure , without offence , of the possibility of your marrying Sir Percival Glyde . 
She took her hand off the little album as suddenly as if it had turned hot and burnt her . 
Is it absolutely necessary to speak of my marriage engagement ? she asked in low tones . 
It is necessary to refer to it , I answered , but not to dwell on it . 
Let us merely say that you may marry , or that you may not marry . 
This may be my only chance of hearing what your wishes are . 
She listened attentively , with the constrained expression still on her face , and her hands still nervously clasped together in her lap . 
She moved uneasily in her chair , then looked in my face on a sudden very earnestly . 
If it does happen , she began faintly , if I am If you are married , I added , helping her out . 
Don't let him part me from Marian , she cried , with a sudden outbreak of energy . 
But her looks and tones , when she spoke , were of a kind to make me more than serious they distressed me . 
Her words , few as they were , betrayed a desperate clinging to the past which boded ill for the future . 
Your having Marian Halcombe to live with you can easily be settled by private arrangement , I said . 
You hardly understood my question , I think . 
It referred to your own property to the disposal of your money . 
May I leave it to Marian , Mr. Gilmore ? Certainly , my love , I answered . 
But remember what a large sum it is . 
Would you like it all to go to Miss Halcombe ? She hesitated her colour came and went , and her hand stole back again to the little album . 
Not all of it , she said . 
You mean some other member of the family besides Miss Halcombe ? I suggested , seeing her at a loss to proceed . 
The heightening colour spread to her forehead and her neck , and the nervous fingers suddenly clasped themselves fast round the edge of the book . 
There would be no harm if I should die first She paused again . 
The colour that had spread over her cheeks suddenly , as suddenly left them . 
The hand on the album resigned its hold , trembled a little , and moved the book away from her . 
She looked at me for an instant then turned her head aside in the chair . 
Her handkerchief fell to the floor as she changed her position , and she hurriedly hid her face from me in her hands . 
I moved my chair close to her , and picked up her handkerchief from the carpet , and drew her hands from her face gently . 
It was the best way I could have taken to compose her . 
She laid her head on my shoulder , and smiled faintly through her tears . 
I am very sorry for forgetting myself , she said artlessly . 
I have not been well I have felt sadly weak and nervous lately , and I often cry without reason when I am alone . 
I am better now I can answer you as I ought , Mr. Gilmore , I can indeed . 
No , no , my dear , I replied , we will consider the subject as done with for the present . 
You have said enough to sanction my taking the best possible care of your interests , and we can settle details at another opportunity . 
Let us have done with business now , and talk of something else . 
I led her at once into speaking on other topics . 
In ten minutes' time she was in better spirits , and I rose to take my leave . 
Come here again , she said earnestly . 
I will try to be worthier of your kind feeling for me and for my interests if you will only come again . 
If I do come again , I hope I shall find you better , I said better and happier . 
God bless you , my dear ! She only answered by putting up her cheek to me to be kissed . 
Even lawyers have hearts , and mine ached a little as I took leave of her . 
I had entered the room , feeling that Sir Percival Glyde had fair reason to complain of the manner in which she was treating him . 
I left it , secretly hoping that matters might end in her taking him at his word and claiming her release . 
A man of my age and experience ought to have known better than to vacillate in this unreasonable manner . 
I can make no excuse for myself I can only tell the truth , and say so it was . 
The hour for my departure was now drawing near . 
I sent to Mr. Fairlie to say that I would wait on him to take leave if he liked , but that he must excuse my being rather in a hurry . 
He sent a message back , written in pencil on a slip of paper Kind love and best wishes , dear Gilmore . 
Hurry of any kind is inexpressibly injurious to me . 
Pray take care of yourself . 
Just before I left I saw Miss Halcombe for a moment alone . 
Have you said all you wanted to Laura ? she asked . 
She is very weak and nervous I am glad she has you to take care of her . 
Miss Halcombe's sharp eyes studied my face attentively . 
You are altering your opinion about Laura , she said . 
You are readier to make allowances for her than you were yesterday . 
No sensible man ever engages , unprepared , in a fencing match of words with a woman . 
I only answered Let me know what happens . 
I will do nothing till I hear from you . 
She still looked hard in my face . 
I wish it was all over , and well over , Mr. Gilmore and so do you . 
With those words she left me . 
Sir Percival most politely insisted on seeing me to the carriage door . 
If you are ever in my neighbourhood , he said , pray don't forget that I am sincerely anxious to improve our acquaintance . 
The tried and trusted old friend of this family will be always a welcome visitor in any house of mine . 
A really irresistible man courteous , considerate , delightfully free from pride a gentleman , every inch of him . 
III A week passed , after my return to London , without the receipt of any communication from Miss Halcombe . 
On the eighth day a letter in her handwriting was placed among the other letters on my table . 
It announced that Sir Percival Glyde had been definitely accepted , and that the marriage was to take place , as he had originally desired , before the end of the year . 
In all probability the ceremony would be performed during the last fortnight in December . 
Miss Fairlie's twenty first birthday was late in March . 
She would , therefore , by this arrangement , become Sir Percival's wife about three months before she was of age . 
I ought not to have been surprised , I ought not to have been sorry , but I was surprised and sorry , nevertheless . 
Some little disappointment , caused by the unsatisfactory shortness of Miss Halcombe's letter , mingled itself with these feelings , and contributed its share towards upsetting my serenity for the day . 
At a later period the cause of this sudden determination was fully explained to me . 
It is not my business to relate it imperfectly , on hearsay evidence . 
The circumstances came within the personal experience of Miss Halcombe , and when her narrative succeeds mine , she will describe them in every particular exactly as they happened . 
It is impossible to refer intelligibly to this document without first entering into certain particulars in relation to the bride's pecuniary affairs . 
I will try to make my explanation briefly and plainly , and to keep it free from professional obscurities and technicalities . 
The matter is of the utmost importance . 
Let us take the land first . 
the entailed succession to the Limmeridge estate stood thus Mr. Fairlie , the elder , died and left three sons , Philip , Frederick , and Arthur . 
The third brother , Arthur , had died many years before the decease of Philip , leaving a son and a daughter . 
The son , at the age of eighteen , was drowned at Oxford . 
, his niece , Laura , would have the property on his death , possessing , it must be remembered , nothing more than a life interest in it . 
If she died single , or died childless , the estate would revert to her cousin , Magdalen , the daughter of Mr. Arthur Fairlie . 
would , during her lifetime , be at her own disposal . 
If she died before her husband , he would naturally expect to be left in the enjoyment of the income , for HIS lifetime . 
If she had a son , that son would be the heir , to the exclusion of her cousin Magdalen . 
and , secondly , the inheritance of Limmeridge for his son , if he had one . 
So much for the landed property , and for the disposal of the income from it , on the occasion of Miss Fairlie's marriage . 
Thus far , no difficulty or difference of opinion on the lady's settlement was at all likely to arise between Sir Percival's lawyer and myself . 
This part of her inheritance was , in itself , a comfortable little fortune . 
It was derived under her father's will , and it amounted to the sum of twenty thousand pounds . 
Mr. Philip Fairlie had lived on excellent terms with his sister Eleanor , as long as she remained a single woman . 
The other members of the family all thought this serious manifestation of resentment at his sister's marriage more or less unreasonable . 
Count Fosco , though not a rich man , was not a penniless adventurer either . 
He had a small but sufficient income of his own . 
He had lived many years in England , and he held an excellent position in society . 
These recommendations , however , availed nothing with Mr. Fairlie . 
In many of his opinions he was an Englishman of the old school , and he hated a foreigner simply and solely because he was a foreigner . 
Such was the history of the ten thousand pounds . 
Here again no difficulty could arise with Sir Percival's legal adviser . 
The income would be at the wife's disposal , and the principal would go to her aunt or her cousin on her death . 
All preliminary explanations being now cleared out of the way , I come at last to the real knot of the case to the twenty thousand pounds . 
The other clauses contained in that document were of a formal kind , and need not be recited here . 
But the clause relating to the money is too important to be passed over . 
A few lines will be sufficient to give the necessary abstract of it . 
The effect of these conditions may be thus summed up . 
If , on the other hand , she died leaving children , then their interest , naturally and necessarily , superseded all other interests whatsoever . 
This was the clause and no one who reads it can fail , I think , to agree with me that it meted out equal justice to all parties . 
We shall see how my proposals were met on the husband's side . 
At the time when Miss Halcombe's letter reached me I was even more busily occupied than usual . 
But I contrived to make leisure for the settlement . 
After a lapse of two days the document was returned to me , with notes and remarks of the baronet's lawyer . 
His objections , in general , proved to be of the most trifling and technical kind , until he came to the clause relating to the twenty thousand pounds . 
Against this there were double lines drawn in red ink , and the following note was appended to them Not admissible . 
The PRINCIPAL to go to Sir Percival Glyde , in the event of his surviving Lady Glyde , and there being no issue . 
That is to say , not one farthing of the twenty thousand pounds was to go to Miss Halcombe , or to any other relative or friend of Lady Glyde's . 
The whole sum , if she left no children , was to slip into the pockets of her husband . 
The answer I wrote to this audacious proposal was as short and sharp as I could make it . 
I maintain the clause to which you object , exactly as it stands . 
The rejoinder came back in a quarter of an hour . 
I maintain the red ink to which you object , exactly as it stands . 
In the detestable slang of the day , we were now both at a deadlock , and nothing was left for it but to refer to our clients on either side . 
As matters stood , my client Miss Fairlie not having yet completed her twenty first year Mr. Frederick Fairlie , was her guardian . 
The want of ready money was the practical necessity of Sir Percival's existence , and his lawyer's note on the clause in the settlement was nothing but the frankly selfish expression of it . 
Mr. Fairlie's answer reached me by return of post , and proved to be wandering and irrelevant in the extreme . 
Then why not make it ? I threw the letter away in disgust . 
Just as it had fluttered to the ground , there was a knock at my door , and Sir Percival s solicitor , Mr. Merriman , was shown in . 
A fat , well fed , smiling , friendly man of business is of all parties to a bargain the most hopeless to deal with . 
Mr. Merriman was one of this class . 
And how is good Mr. Gilmore ? he began , all in a glow with the warmth of his own amiability . 
Glad to see you , sir , in such excellent health . 
I was passing your door , and I thought I would look in in case you might have something to say to me . 
Do now pray do let us settle this little difference of ours by word of mouth , if we can ! Have you heard from your client yet ? Yes . 
'Merriman , I leave details to you . 
Do what you think right for my interests , and consider me as having personally withdrawn from the business until it is all over . 
Those were Sir Percival's words a fortnight ago , and all I can get him to do now is to repeat them . 
I am not a hard man , Mr. Gilmore , as you know . 
Personally and privately , I do assure you , I should like to sponge out that note of mine at this very moment . 
You maintain your note on the clause , then , to the letter ? I said . 
Yes deuce take it ! I have no other alternative . 
He walked to the fireplace and warmed himself , humming the fag end of a tune in a rich convivial bass voice . 
What does your side say ? he went on now pray tell me what does your side say ? I was ashamed to tell him . 
I attempted to gain time nay , I did worse . 
My legal instincts got the better of me , and I even tried to bargain . 
Twenty thousand pounds is rather a large sum to be given up by the lady's friends at two days' notice , I said . 
Very true , replied Mr. Merriman , looking down thoughtfully at his boots . 
Come , come ! this contingency resolves itself into a matter of bargaining after all . 
What is the least you will take ? The least we will take , said Mr. Merriman , is nineteen thousand nine hundred and ninety nine pounds nineteen shillings and elevenpence three farthings . 
Ha ! ha ! ha ! Excuse me , Mr. Gilmore . 
I must have my little joke . 
Little enough , I remarked . 
The joke is just worth the odd farthing it was made for . 
He laughed over my retort till the room rang again . 
I was not half so good humoured on my side I came back to business , and closed the interview . 
This is Friday , I said . 
Give us till Tuesday next for our final answer . 
By all means , replied Mr. Merriman . 
Longer , my dear sir , if you like . 
He took up his hat to go , and then addressed me again . 
By the way , he said , your clients in Cumberland have not heard anything more of the woman who wrote the anonymous letter , have they ? Nothing more , I answered . 
Have you found no trace of her ? Not yet , said my legal friend . 
Sir Percival has his suspicions that Somebody is keeping her in hiding , and we are having that Somebody watched . 
You mean the old woman who was with her in Cumberland , I said . 
Quite another party , sir , answered Mr. Merriman . 
We don't happen to have laid hands on the old woman yet . 
Our Somebody is a man . 
We have got him close under our eye here in London , and we strongly suspect he had something to do with helping her in the first instance to escape from the Asylum . 
Sir Percival wanted to question him at once , but I said , 'No . 
Questioning him will only put him on his guard watch him , and wait . 
We shall see what happens . 
A dangerous woman to be at large , Mr. Gilmore nobody knows what she may do next . 
I wish you good morning , sir . 
On Tuesday next I shall hope for the pleasure of hearing from you . 
He smiled amiably and went out . 
My mind had been rather absent during the latter part of the conversation with my legal friend . 
But I could not act with this business like indifference towards Miss Fairlie . 
Writing a second time to Mr. Fairlie was not to be thought of it would only be giving him a second opportunity of slipping through my fingers . 
Seeing him and personally remonstrating with him might possibly be of more use . 
The next day was Saturday . 
It was a poor chance enough , no doubt , but when I had tried it my conscience would be at ease . 
I should then have done all that a man in my position could do to serve the interests of my old friend's only child . 
The weather on Saturday was beautiful , a west wind and a bright sun . 
As I came out into Holborn a gentleman walking by rapidly stopped and spoke to me . 
It was Mr. Walter Hartright . 
If he had not been the first to greet me I should certainly have passed him . 
He was so changed that I hardly knew him again . 
Have you been long back from Cumberland ? he asked . 
I heard from Miss Halcombe lately . 
I am aware that Sir Percival Glyde's explanation has been considered satisfactory . 
Time will show , Mr. Hartright , I said time will show . 
I dare say if we look out for the marriage in the papers we shall not be far wrong . 
Excuse my noticing it , but I am sorry to see you not looking so well as you were when we last met . 
A momentary nervous contraction quivered about his lips and eyes , and made me half reproach myself for having answered him in such a significantly guarded manner . 
I had no right to ask about her marriage , he said bitterly . 
I must wait to see it in the newspapers like other people . 
Yes , he went on before I could make any apologies I have not been well lately . 
I am going to another country to try a change of scene and occupation . 
Miss Halcombe has kindly assisted me with her influence , and my testimonials have been found satisfactory . 
It is a long distance off , but I don't care where I go , what the climate is , or how long I am away . 
Miss Halcombe and Miss Fairlie are away just now on a visit to some friends in Yorkshire . 
His eyes brightened , and he seemed about to say something in answer , but the same momentary nervous spasm crossed his face again . 
He took my hand , pressed it hard , and disappeared among the crowd without saying another word . 
Though he was little more than a stranger to me , I waited for a moment , looking after him almost with a feeling of regret . 
IV Leaving by an early train , I got to Limmeridge in time for dinner . 
The house was oppressively empty and dull . 
I had expected that good Mrs. Vesey would have been company for me in the absence of the young ladies , but she was confined to her room by a cold . 
The servants were so surprised at seeing me that they hurried and bustled absurdly , and made all sorts of annoying mistakes . 
Even the butler , who was old enough to have known better , brought me a bottle of port that was chilled . 
The wind howled dismally all night , and strange cracking and groaning noises sounded here , there , and everywhere in the empty house . 
I slept as wretchedly as possible , and got up in a mighty bad humour to breakfast by myself the next morning . 
At ten o'clock I was conducted to Mr. Fairlie's apartments . 
He was in his usual room , his usual chair , and his usual aggravating state of mind and body . 
When I went in , his valet was standing before him , holding up for inspection a heavy volume of etchings , as long and as broad as my office writing desk . 
Dear Gilmore ! I had expected that the valet would be dismissed when I appeared , but nothing of the sort happened . 
I have come to speak to you on a very important matter , I said , and you will therefore excuse me , if I suggest that we had better be alone . 
The unfortunate valet looked at me gratefully . 
Mr. Fairlie faintly repeated my last three words , better be alone , with every appearance of the utmost possible astonishment . 
I was in no humour for trifling , and I resolved to make him understand what I meant . 
Oblige me by giving that man permission to withdraw , I said , pointing to the valet . 
Mr. Fairlie arched his eyebrows and pursed up his lips in sarcastic surprise . 
You provoking old Gilmore , what can you possibly mean by calling him a man ? He's nothing of the sort . 
At present he is simply a portfolio stand . 
Why object , Gilmore , to a portfolio stand ? I DO object . 
For the third time , Mr. Fairlie , I beg that we may be alone . 
My tone and manner left him no alternative but to comply with my request . 
He looked at the servant , and pointed peevishly to a chair at his side . 
Put down the etchings and go away , he said . 
Don't upset me by losing my place . 
Mr. Fairlie twisted himself round in his chair , polished the magnifying glass with his delicate cambric handkerchief , and indulged himself with a sidelong inspection of the open volume of etchings . 
It was not easy to keep my temper under these circumstances , but I did keep it . 
Don't bully me ! exclaimed Mr. Fairlie , falling back helplessly in the chair , and closing his eyes . 
I was determined not to let him provoke me , for Laura Fairlie's sake . 
Let me state the case to you once more , and for the last time . 
Mr. Fairlie shook his head and sighed piteously . 
This is heartless of you , Gilmore very heartless , he said . 
Never mind , go on . 
I put all the points to him carefully I set the matter before him in every conceivable light . 
He lay back in the chair the whole time I was speaking with his eyes closed . 
When I had done he opened them indolently , took his silver smelling bottle from the table , and sniffed at it with an air of gentle relish . 
I tell you again , Sir Percival Glyde has no shadow of a claim to expect more than the income of the money . 
The money itself if your niece has no children , ought to be under her control , and to return to her family . 
Mr. Fairlie shook the silver smelling bottle at me playfully . 
You dear old Gilmore , how you do hate rank and family , don't you ? How you detest Glyde because he happens to be a baronet . 
My blood boiled at it I started out of my chair I was speechless with Indignation . 
Don't shake the room ! cried Mr. Fairlie for Heaven's sake don't shake the room ! Worthiest of all possible Gilmores , I meant no offence . 
My own views are so extremely liberal that I think I am a Radical myself . 
We are a pair of Radicals . 
I can't quarrel I haven't stamina enough . 
Shall we drop the subject ? Yes . 
Come and look at these sweet etchings . 
Do let me teach you to understand the heavenly pearliness of these lines . 
Do now , there's a good Gilmore ! While he was maundering on in this way I was , fortunately for my own self respect , returning to my senses . 
When I spoke again I was composed enough to treat his impertinence with the silent contempt that it deserved . 
You are entirely wrong , sir , I said , in supposing that I speak from any prejudice against Sir Percival Glyde . 
I may regret that he has so unreservedly resigned himself in this matter to his lawyer's direction as to make any appeal to himself impossible , but I am not prejudiced against him . 
What I have said would equally apply to any other man in his situation , high or low . 
The principle I maintain is a recognised principle . 
He would inform you that it is against all rule to abandon the lady's money entirely to the man she marries . 
He would decline , on grounds of common legal caution , to give the husband , under any circumstances whatever , an interest of twenty thousand pounds in his wife's death . 
Would he really , Gilmore ? said Mr. Fairlie . 
If he said anything half so horrid , I do assure you I should tinkle my bell for Louis , and have him sent out of the house immediately . 
You shall not irritate me , Mr. Fairlie for your niece's sake and for her father's sake , you shall not irritate me . 
You shall take the whole responsibility of this discreditable settlement on your own shoulders before I leave the room . 
Don't ! now please don't ! said Mr. Fairlie . 
Think how precious your time is , Gilmore , and don't throw it away . 
I would dispute with you if I could , but I can't I haven't stamina enough . 
So glad we understand each other at last . 
Sit down again do ! I walked at once to the door , and Mr. Fairlie resignedly tinkled his hand bell . 
Before I left the room I turned round and addressed him for the last time . 
Whatever happens in the future , sir , I said , remember that my plain duty of warning you has been performed . 
The door opened behind me , and the valet stood waiting on the threshold . 
Louis , said Mr. Fairlie , show Mr. Gilmore out , and then come back and hold up my etchings for me again . 
Make them give you a good lunch downstairs . 
There was an up train at two o'clock in the afternoon , and by that train I returned to London . 
On the Tuesday I sent in the altered settlement , which practically disinherited the very persons whom Miss Fairlie's own lips had informed me she was most anxious to benefit . 
Another lawyer would have drawn up the deed if I had refused to undertake it . 
My personal share in the events of the family story extends no farther than the point which I have just reached . 
Other pens than mine will describe the strange circumstances which are now shortly to follow . 
Seriously and sorrowfully I close this brief record . 
The End of Mr. Gilmore's Narrative . 
This morning Mr. Gilmore left us . 
His interview with Laura had evidently grieved and surprised him more than he liked to confess . 
I felt afraid , from his look and manner when we parted , that she might have inadvertently betrayed to him the real secret of her depression and my anxiety . 
This doubt grew on me so , after he had gone , that I declined riding out with Sir Percival , and went up to Laura's room instead . 
I have been sadly distrustful of myself , in this difficult and lamentable matter , ever since I found out my own ignorance of the strength of Laura's unhappy attachment . 
And yet , until she opened her heart to me of her own accord , I had no suspicion that this new feeling had taken root so deeply . 
I once thought time and care might remove it . 
I now fear that it will remain with her and alter her for life . 
The discovery that I have committed such an error in judgment as this makes me hesitate about everything else . 
I hesitate about Sir Percival , in the face of the plainest proofs . 
I hesitate even in speaking to Laura . 
On this very morning I doubted , with my hand on the door , whether I should ask her the questions I had come to put , or not . 
When I went into her room I found her walking up and down in great impatience . 
She looked flushed and excited , and she came forward at once , and spoke to me before I could open my lips . 
I wanted you , she said . 
Come and sit down on the sofa with me . 
Marian ! I can bear this no longer I must and will end it . 
There was too much colour in her cheeks , too much energy in her manner , too much firmness in her voice . 
The little book of Hartright's drawings the fatal book that she will dream over whenever she is alone was in one of her hands . 
I began by gently and firmly taking it from her , and putting it out of sight on a side table . 
Tell me quietly , my darling , what you wish to do , I said . 
Has Mr. Gilmore been advising you ? She shook her head . 
No , not in what I am thinking of now . 
He was very kind and good to me , Marian , and I am ashamed to say I distressed him by crying . 
I am miserably helpless I can't control myself . 
For my own sake , and for all our sakes , I must have courage enough to end it . 
Do you mean courage enough to claim your release ? I asked . 
No , she said simply . 
Courage , dear , to tell the truth . 
She put her arms round my neck , and rested her head quietly on my bosom . 
On the opposite wall hung the miniature portrait of her father . 
I bent over her , and saw that she was looking at it while her head lay on my breast . 
I can never claim my release from my engagement , she went on . 
Whatever way it ends it must end wretchedly for me . 
All I can do , Marian , is not to add the remembrance that I have broken my promise and forgotten my father's dying words , to make that wretchedness worse . 
What is it you propose , then ? I asked . 
if he knows that the engagement is opposed to your own wishes . 
She put her lips to mine , and kissed me . 
I held her away from me in astonishment . 
For the first time in our lives we had changed places the resolution was all on her side , the hesitation all on mine . 
I hung my head in silence . 
In her place the despicably small pride which makes so many women deceitful would have been my pride , and would have made me deceitful too . 
Don't be angry with me , Marian , she said , mistaking my silence . 
I only answered by drawing her close to me again . 
I was afraid of crying if I spoke . 
Let me speak to him to morrow in your presence , Marian . 
She sighed , and put her head back in its old position on my bosom . 
Sad misgivings about what the end would be weighed upon my mind , but still distrusting myself , I told her that I would do as she wished . 
She thanked me , and we passed gradually into talking of other things . 
At dinner she joined us again , and was more easy and more herself with Sir Percival than I have seen her yet . 
In the evening she went to the piano , choosing new music of the dexterous , tuneless , florid kind . 
The lovely old melodies of Mozart , which poor Hartright was so fond of , she has never played since he left . 
The book is no longer in the music stand . 
She took the volume away herself , so that nobody might find it out and ask her to play from it . 
She said , very quietly , that she wished to speak to him after breakfast , and that he would find her in her sitting room with me . 
He changed colour at those words , and I felt his hand trembling a little when it came to my turn to take it . 
The event of the next morning would decide his future life , and he evidently knew it . 
I went in , as usual , through the door between our two bed rooms , to bid Laura good night before she went to sleep . 
I could not find it in my heart to say anything , but I pointed to the book and shook my head . 
She reached both hands up to my cheeks , and drew my face down to hers till our lips met . 
Leave it there to night , she whispered to morrow may be cruel , and may make me say good bye to it for ever . 
The first event of the morning was not of a kind to raise my spirits a letter arrived for me from poor Walter Hartright . 
It is the answer to mine describing the manner in which Sir Percival cleared himself of the suspicions raised by Anne Catherick's letter . 
He writes shortly and bitterly about Sir Percival's explanations , only saying that he has no right to offer an opinion on the conduct of those who are above him . 
This is sad , but his occasional references to himself grieve me still more . 
I have been made all the readier to comply with this request by a passage at the end of his letter , which has almost alarmed me . 
He acknowledges that he cannot prove this extraordinary suspicion by fixing on any particular persons , but he declares that the suspicion itself is present to him night and day . 
This has frightened me , because it looks as if his one fixed idea about Laura was becoming too much for his mind . 
I will write immediately to some of my mother's influential old friends in London , and press his claims on their notice . 
Change of scene and change of occupation may really be the salvation of him at this crisis in his life . 
Greatly to my relief , Sir Percival sent an apology for not joining us at breakfast . 
He had taken an early cup of coffee in his own room , and he was still engaged there in writing letters . 
At eleven o'clock , if that hour was convenient , he would do himself the honour of waiting on Miss Fairlie and Miss Halcombe . 
My eyes were on Laura's face while the message was being delivered . 
I had found her unaccountably quiet and composed on going into her room in the morning , and so she remained all through breakfast . 
Even when we were sitting together on the sofa in her room , waiting for Sir Percival , she still preserved her self control . 
I looked at her , and listened to her in silent surprise . 
As the clock on the mantelpiece struck eleven Sir Percival knocked at the door and came in . 
There was suppressed anxiety and agitation in every line of his face . 
The dry , sharp cough , which teases him at most times , seemed to be troubling him more incessantly than ever . 
He sat down opposite to us at the table , and Laura remained by me . 
I looked attentively at them both , and he was the palest of the two . 
He said a few unimportant words , with a visible effort to preserve his customary ease of manner . 
But his voice was not to be steadied , and the restless uneasiness in his eyes was not to be concealed . 
He must have felt this himself , for he stopped in the middle of a sentence , and gave up even the attempt to hide his embarrassment any longer . 
There was just one moment of dead silence before Laura addressed him . 
I wish to speak to you , Sir Percival , she said , on a subject that is very important to us both . 
My sister is here , because her presence helps me and gives me confidence . 
She has not suggested one word of what I am going to say I speak from my own thoughts , not from hers . 
I am sure you will be kind enough to understand that before I go any farther ? Sir Percival bowed . 
She had proceeded thus far , with perfect outward tranquillity and perfect propriety of manner . 
She looked at him , and he looked at her . 
They seemed , at the outset , at least , resolved to understand one another plainly . 
I have heard from Marian , she went on , that I have only to claim my release from our engagement to obtain that release from you . 
It was forbearing and generous on your part , Sir Percival , to send me such a message . 
His attentive face relaxed a little . 
But I saw one of his feet , softly , quietly , incessantly beating on the carpet under the table , and I felt that he was secretly as anxious as ever . 
I have not forgotten , she said , that you asked my father's permission before you honoured me with a proposal of marriage . 
I was guided by my father , because I had always found him the truest of all advisers , the best and fondest of all protectors and friends . 
I have lost him now I have only his memory to love , but my faith in that dear dead friend has never been shaken . 
Her voice trembled for the first time . 
Her restless fingers stole their way into my lap , and held fast by one of my hands . 
There was another moment of silence , and then Sir Percival spoke . 
You have always treated me with the same delicacy and the same forbearance . 
You have deserved my trust , and , what is of far more importance in my estimation , you have deserved my father's trust , out of which mine grew . 
You have given me no excuse , even if I had wanted to find one , for asking to be released from my pledge . 
What I have said so far has been spoken with the wish to acknowledge my whole obligation to you . 
The breaking of our engagement must be entirely your wish and your act , Sir Percival not mine . 
The uneasy beating of his foot suddenly stopped , and he leaned forward eagerly across the table . 
My act ? he said . 
What reason can there be on my side for withdrawing ? I heard her breath quickening I felt her hand growing cold . 
In spite of what she had said to me when we were alone , I began to be afraid of her . 
A reason that it is very hard to tell you , she answered . 
There is a change in me , Sir Percival a change which is serious enough to justify you , to yourself and to me , in breaking off our engagement . 
His face turned so pale again that even his lips lost their colour . 
What change ? he asked . 
The tone in which he put the question jarred on me there was something painfully suppressed in it . 
She sighed heavily , and leaned towards me a little , so as to rest her shoulder against mine . 
I felt her trembling , and tried to spare her by speaking myself . 
She stopped me by a warning pressure of her hand , and then addressed Sir Percival one more , but this time without looking at him . 
I have heard , she said , and I believe it , that the fondest and truest of all affections is the affection which a woman ought to bear to her husband . 
When our engagement began that affection was mine to give , if I could , and yours to win , if you could . 
He did not utter a word . 
At the beginning of her reply he had moved the hand on which his head rested , so that it hid his face . 
I saw nothing but the upper part of his figure at the table . 
Not a muscle of him moved . 
The fingers of the hand which supported his head were dented deep in his hair . 
They might have expressed hidden anger or hidden grief it was hard to say which there was no significant trembling in them . 
There was nothing , absolutely nothing , to tell the secret of his thoughts at that moment the moment which was the crisis of his life and the crisis of hers . 
I was determined to make him declare himself , for Laura's sake . 
That last rash sentence opened a way for him by which to escape me if he chose , and he instantly took advantage of it . 
Pardon me , Miss Halcombe , he said , still keeping his hand over his face , pardon me if I remind you that I have claimed no such right . 
The few plain words which would have brought him back to the point from which he had wandered were just on my lips , when Laura checked me by speaking again . 
I hope I have not made my painful acknowledgment in vain , she continued . 
I hope it has secured me your entire confidence in what I have still to say ? Pray be assured of it . 
He made that brief reply warmly , dropping his hand on the table while he spoke , and turning towards us again . 
Whatever outward change had passed over him was gone now . 
His face was eager and expectant it expressed nothing but the most intense anxiety to hear her next words . 
I wish you to understand that I have not spoken from any selfish motive , she said . 
My fault towards you has begun and ended in my own thoughts . 
It can never go any farther . 
No word has passed She hesitated , in doubt about the expression she should use next , hesitated in a momentary confusion which it was very sad and very painful to see . 
I earnestly beg you to spare me from saying any more , and to believe me , on my word , in what I have just told you . 
Sir Percival , the truth which I think my promised husband has a claim to hear , at any sacrifice of my own feelings . 
I trust to his generosity to pardon me , and to his honour to keep my secret . 
Both those trusts are sacred to me , he said , and both shall be sacredly kept . 
After answering in those terms he paused , and looked at her as if he was waiting to hear more . 
I have said all I wish to say , she added quietly I have said more than enough to justify you in withdrawing from your engagement . 
You have said more than enough , he answered , to make it the dearest object of my life to KEEP the engagement . 
With those words he rose from his chair , and advanced a few steps towards the place where she was sitting . 
She started violently , and a faint cry of surprise escaped her . 
Every word she had spoken had innocently betrayed her purity and truth to a man who thoroughly understood the priceless value of a pure and true woman . 
Her own noble conduct had been the hidden enemy , throughout , of all the hopes she had trusted to it . 
I had dreaded this from the first . 
I would have prevented it , if she had allowed me the smallest chance of doing so . 
I even waited and watched now , when the harm was done , for a word from Sir Percival that would give me the opportunity of putting him in the wrong . 
You have left it to ME , Miss Fairlie , to resign you , he continued . 
I am not heartless enough to resign a woman who has just shown herself to be the noblest of her sex . 
No ! she said firmly . 
The most wretched of her sex , if she must give herself in marriage when she cannot give her love . 
May she not give it in the future , he asked , if the one object of her husband's life is to deserve it ? Never ! she answered . 
I tried hard to feel that Sir Percival was to blame , and to say so , but my womanhood would pity him , in spite of myself . 
I gratefully accept your faith and truth , he said . 
The least that you can offer is more to me than the utmost that I could hope for from any other woman in the world . 
Her left hand still held mine , but her right hand hung listlessly at her side . 
He raised it gently to his lips touched it with them , rather than kissed it bowed to me and then , with perfect delicacy and discretion , silently quitted the room . 
She neither moved nor said a word when he was gone she sat by me , cold and still , with her eyes fixed on the ground . 
I saw it was hopeless and useless to speak , and I only put my arm round her , and held her to me in silence . 
The sound of my voice seemed to startle her into consciousness . 
She suddenly drew herself away from me and rose to her feet . 
I must submit , Marian , as well as I can , she said . 
My new life has its hard duties , and one of them begins to day . 
She locked the drawer and brought the key to me . 
I must part from everything that reminds me of him , she said . 
Keep the key wherever you please I shall never want it again . 
Before I could say a word she had turned away to her book case , and had taken from it the album that contained Walter Hartright's drawings . 
She hesitated for a moment , holding the little volume fondly in her hands then lifted it to her lips and kissed it . 
Oh , Laura ! Laura ! I said , not angrily , not reprovingly with nothing but sorrow in my voice , and nothing but sorrow in my heart . 
It is the last time , Marian , she pleaded . 
I am bidding it good bye for ever . 
She laid the book on the table and drew out the comb that fastened her hair . 
It fell , in its matchless beauty , over her back and shoulders , and dropped round her , far below her waist . 
The moment it was fastened she closed the volume hurriedly , and placed it in my hands . 
You write to him and he writes to you , she said . 
While I am alive , if he asks after me always tell him I am well , and never say I am unhappy . 
Don't distress him , Marian , for my sake , don't distress him . 
If I die first , promise you will give him this little book of his drawings , with my hair in it . 
There can be no harm , when I am gone , in telling him that I put it there with my own hands . 
All the long restraint she had imposed on herself gave way in that first last outburst of tenderness . 
She broke from me with hysterical vehemence , and threw herself on the sofa in a paroxysm of sobs and tears that shook her from head to foot . 
I tried vainly to soothe her and reason with her she was past being soothed , and past being reasoned with . 
It was the sad , sudden end for us two of this memorable day . 
When the fit had worn itself out she was too exhausted to speak . 
She slumbered towards the afternoon , and I put away the book of drawings so that she might not see it when she woke . 
My face was calm , whatever my heart might be , when she opened her eyes again and looked at me . 
We said no more to each other about the distressing interview of the morning . 
Sir Percival's name was not mentioned . 
Walter Hartright was not alluded to again by either of us for the remainder of the day . 
She interposed , gently but firmly , in the middle of my remonstrances . 
I left yesterday to decide , she said and yesterday HAS decided . 
It is too late to go back . 
Sir Percival spoke to me this afternoon about what had passed in Laura's room . 
He waited after saying those words and looked at me . 
Here , again , he disarmed me by not attempting to defend himself . 
I answered him more because my tongue is a woman's , and must answer , than because I had anything convincing to say . 
It was only too plain that the course Laura had adopted the day before had offered him the advantage if he chose to take it and that he HAD chosen to take it . 
I felt this at the time , and I feel it just as strongly now , while I write these lines , in my own room . 
The one hope left is that his motives really spring , as he says they do , from the irresistible strength of his attachment to Laura . 
If they can do anything for him , I am quite sure they will . 
Except Laura , I never was more anxious about any one than I am now about Walter . 
All that has happened since he left us has only increased my strong regard and sympathy for him . 
I hope I am doing right in trying to help him to employment abroad I hope , most earnestly and anxiously , that it will end well . 
Sir Percival had an interview with Mr. Fairlie , and I was sent for to join them . 
It ended in my flatly declining to mention the subject to Laura , unless she first approached it of her own accord . 
I left the room at once after making that declaration . 
She inquired at once what I had been wanted for , and I told her all that had passed , without attempting to conceal the vexation and annoyance that I really felt . 
Her answer surprised and distressed me inexpressibly it was the very last reply that I should have expected her to make . 
My uncle is right , she said . 
I have caused trouble and anxiety enough to you , and to all about me . 
Let me cause no more , Marian let Sir Percival decide . 
I remonstrated warmly , but nothing that I could say moved her . 
I am held to my engagement , she replied I have broken with my old life . 
The evil day will not come the less surely because I put it off . 
No , Marian ! once again my uncle is right . 
I have caused trouble enough and anxiety enough , and I will cause no more . 
She used to be pliability itself , but she was now inflexibly passive in her resignation I might almost say in her despair . 
Sir Percival put some questions to me at breakfast about Laura , which left me no choice but to tell him what she had said . 
While we were talking she herself came down and joined us . 
She was just as unnaturally composed in Sir Percival's presence as she had been in mine . 
When breakfast was over he had an opportunity of saying a few words to her privately , in a recess of one of the windows . 
They were not more than two or three minutes together , and on their separating she left the room with Mrs. Vesey , while Sir Percival came to me . 
He said he had entreated her to favour him by maintaining her privilege of fixing the time for the marriage at her own will and pleasure . 
In reply she had merely expressed her acknowledgments , and had desired him to mention what his wishes were to Miss Halcombe . 
I have no patience to write more . 
In this instance , as in every other , Sir Percival has carried his point with the utmost possible credit to himself , in spite of everything that I can say or do . 
In parting with the little occupations and relics that reminded her of Hartright , she seems to have parted with all her tenderness and all her impressibility . 
Unless some extraordinary event happens to prevent it they will be married exactly at the time when he wished to be married before the end of the year . 
My very fingers burn as I write it ! th . 
A sleepless night , through uneasiness about Laura . 
Towards the morning I came to a resolution to try what change of scene would do to rouse her . 
They are simple , kind hearted , hospitable people , and she has known them from her childhood . 
When I had put the letter in the post bag I told her what I had done . 
It would have been a relief to me if she had shown the spirit to resist and object . 
But no she only said , I will go anywhere with you , Marian . 
I dare say you are right I dare say the change will do me good . 
I had no heart to go into particulars . 
Time enough for them when we get nearer to the end of the year . 
The first , from the Arnolds , full of delight at the prospect of seeing Laura and me . 
A private expedition to make excavations among the ruined cities of Central America is , it seems , about to sail from Liverpool . 
The draughtsman who had been already appointed to accompany it has lost heart , and withdrawn at the eleventh hour , and Walter is to fill his place . 
His letter ends with a promise to write me a farewell line when they are all on board ship , and when the pilot leaves them . 
I can only hope and pray earnestly that he and I are both acting in this matter for the best . 
It seems such a serious step for him to take , that the mere contemplation of it startles me . 
And yet , in his unhappy position , how can I expect him or wish him to remain at home ? th . 
The carriage is at the door . 
Laura and I set out on our visit to the Arnolds to day . 
A week in these new scenes and among these kind hearted people has done her some good , though not so much as I had hoped . 
I have resolved to prolong our stay for another week at least . 
It is useless to go back to Limmeridge till there is an absolute necessity for our return . 
Sad news by this morning's post . 
The expedition to Central America sailed on the twenty first . 
We have parted with a true man we have lost a faithful friend . 
Water Hartright has left England . 
Sad news yesterday ominous news to day . 
Sir Percival Glyde has written to Mr. Fairlie , and Mr. Fairlie has written to Laura and me , to recall us to Limmeridge immediately . 
What can this mean ? Has the day for the marriage been fixed in our absence ? II LIMMERIDGE HOUSE . 
The marriage is fixed for the twenty second of December . 
, I , for one , have no doubt of the propriety of adopting the first of these proposals . 
In either case a separation between Laura and me is inevitable . 
She is not of a disposition to find resources in the conventional gaieties and excitements of London . 
They would only make the first oppression of this lamentable marriage fall the heavier on her . 
I dread the beginning of her new life more than words can tell , but I see some hope for her if she travels none if she remains at home . 
It seems so cold and so unfeeling to be looking at the future already in this cruelly composed way . 
A sad , sad day a day that I have no heart to describe at any length . 
After weakly putting it off last night , I was obliged to speak to her this morning of Sir Percival's proposal about the wedding tour . 
It nearly broke my heart to dispel her delusion , and to bring her face to face with the hard truth . 
I was obliged to tell her that no man tolerates a rival not even a woman rival in his wife's affections , when he first marries , whatever he may do afterwards . 
She has learnt her hard , her inevitable lesson . 
The simple illusions of her girlhood are gone , and my hand has stripped them off . 
Better mine than his that is all my consolation better mine than his . 
So the first proposal is the proposal accepted . 
They are to go to Italy , and I am to arrange , with Sir Percival's permission , for meeting them and staying with them when they return to England . 
Well ! I think I could do even more than that , for Laura's sake . 
On looking back , I find myself always referring to Sir Percival in disparaging terms . 
In the turn affairs have now taken . 
I must and will root out my prejudice against him , I cannot think how it first got into my mind . 
It certainly never existed in former times . 
A whole fortnight has passed , and I have not once opened these pages . 
I have been long enough away from my journal to come back to it with a healthier and better mind , I hope , so far as Sir Percival is concerned . 
There is not much to record of the past two weeks . 
The dresses are almost all finished , and the new travelling trunks have been sent here from London . 
I shall lose you so soon , Marian , she said I must make the most of you while I can . 
They are to be married at Limmeridge Church , and thank Heaven , not one of the neighbours is to be invited to the ceremony . 
But I have done with gloom and distrust that is to say , I have done with writing about either the one or the other in this journal . 
Sir Percival is to arrive to morrow . 
Under the circumstances , neither Mr. Fairlie nor I thought it at all necessary for us to trouble ourselves about attending to trifling forms and ceremonies . 
In our wild moorland country , and in this great lonely house , we may well claim to be beyond the reach of the trivial conventionalities which hamper people in other places . 
I wrote to Sir Percival to thank him for his polite offer , and to beg that he would occupy his old rooms , just as usual , at Limmeridge House . 
He arrived to day , looking , as I thought , a little worn and anxious , but still talking and laughing like a man in the best possible spirits . 
He brought with him some really beautiful presents in jewellery , which Laura received with her best grace , and , outwardly at least , with perfect self possession . 
Instead of retreating to her own room , as usual , she seems to dread going there . 
Keep me always doing something , she said keep me always in company with somebody . 
Don't let me think that is all I ask now , Marian don't let me think . 
This sad change in her only increases her attractions for Sir Percival . 
He interprets it , I can see , to his own advantage . 
There is a feverish flush in her cheeks , a feverish brightness in her eyes , which he welcomes as the return of her beauty and the recovery of her spirits . 
She talked to day at dinner with a gaiety and carelessness so false , so shockingly out of her character , that I secretly longed to silence her and take her away . 
Sir Percival's delight and surprise appeared to be beyond all expression . 
There can be no doubt though some strange perversity prevents me from seeing it myself there can be no doubt that Laura's future husband is a very handsome man . 
Regular features form a personal advantage to begin with and he has them . 
Bright brown eyes , either in man or woman , are a great attraction and he has them . 
, is rather becoming than not in a man , for it heightens the head and adds to the intelligence of the face . 
Grace and ease of movement , untiring animation of manner , ready , pliant , conversational powers all these are unquestionable merits , and all these he certainly possesses . 
If I were asked , at this moment , to say plainly what defects I have discovered in Sir Percival , I could only point out two . 
One , his incessant restlessness and excitability which may be caused , naturally enough , by unusual energy of character . 
The other , his short , sharp , ill tempered manner of speaking to the servants which may be only a bad habit after all . 
No , I cannot dispute it , and I will not dispute it Sir Percival is a very handsome and a very agreeable man . 
There ! I have written it down at last , and I am glad it's over . 
I took the dry airy road over the moor that leads to Todd's Corner . 
After having been out half an hour , I was excessively surprised to see Sir Percival approaching me from the direction of the farm . 
He was walking rapidly , swinging his stick , his head erect as usual , and his shooting jacket flying open in the wind . 
You found , of course , that they had heard nothing ? I said . 
Nothing whatever , he replied . 
I begin to be seriously afraid that we have lost her . 
Very sad , said Sir Percival , speaking like a man who was disappointed , and yet , oddly enough , looking at the same time like a man who was relieved . 
It is impossible to say what misfortunes may not have happened to the miserable creature . 
I am inexpressibly annoyed at the failure of all my efforts to restore her to the care and protection which she so urgently needs . 
This time he really looked annoyed . 
I said a few sympathising words , and we then talked of other subjects on our way back to the house . 
Well ! I give him extraordinary praise and there's an end of it . 
More discoveries in the inexhaustible mine of Sir Percival's virtues . 
To day I approached the subject of my proposed sojourn under his wife's roof when he brings her back to England . 
He ran over the names of several friends whom he expected to meet abroad this winter . 
They were all English , as well as I can remember , with one exception . 
The one exception was Count Fosco . 
It is likely to be the means of healing a family feud . 
Hitherto Madame Fosco has chosen to forget her obligations as Laura's aunt out of sheer spite against the late Mr. Fairlie for his conduct in the affair of the legacy . 
Now however , she can persist in this course of conduct no longer . 
Sir Percival and Count Fosco are old and fast friends , and their wives will have no choice but to meet on civil terms . 
Madame Fosco in her maiden days was one of the most impertinent women I ever met with capricious , exacting , and vain to the last degree of absurdity . 
If her husband has succeeded in bringing her to her senses , he deserves the gratitude of every member of the family , and he may have mine to begin with . 
I am becoming anxious to know the Count . 
He is the most intimate friend of Laura's husband , and in that capacity he excites my strongest interest . 
Neither Laura nor I have ever seen him . 
This is all I know of Sir Percival's friend . 
I wonder if he will ever come to England ? I wonder if I shall like him ? My pen is running away into mere speculation . 
Let me return to sober matter of fact . 
It is certain that Sir Percival's reception of my venturesome proposal to live with his wife was more than kind , it was almost affectionate . 
I am sure Laura's husband will have no reason to complain of me if I can only go on as I have begun . 
I have already declared him to be handsome , agreeable , full of good feeling towards the unfortunate and full of affectionate kindness towards me . 
Really , I hardly know myself again in my new character of Sir Percival's warmest friend . 
I hate Sir Percival ! I flatly deny his good looks . 
I consider him to be eminently ill tempered and disagreeable , and totally wanting in kindness and good feeling . 
Last night the cards for the married couple were sent home . 
Laura opened the packet and saw her future name in print for the first time . 
I don't know what it was Laura has refused to tell me but I saw her face turn to such a deadly whiteness that I thought she would have fainted . 
He took no notice of the change he seemed to be barbarously unconscious that he had said anything to pain her . 
All my old feelings of hostility towards him revived on the instant , and all the hours that have passed since have done nothing to dissipate them . 
I am more unreasonable and more unjust than ever . 
In three words how glibly my pen writes them ! in three words , I hate him . 
Perhaps I may have caught the feverish excitement of Laura's spirits for the last week . 
If so , the fit has already passed away from me , and has left me in a very strange state of mind . 
A persistent idea has been forcing itself on my attention , ever since last night , that something will yet happen to prevent the marriage . 
This last day has been all confusion and wretchedness . 
How can I write about it ? and yet , I must write . 
Anything is better than brooding over my own gloomy thoughts . 
Kind Mrs. Vesey , whom we have all too much overlooked and forgotten of late , innocently caused us a sad morning to begin with . 
Dear Laura was to pay him a little visit that evening , and to be kind enough not to make a scene . 
Dear Laura was to pay him another little visit in her wedding dress the next morning , and to be kind enough , again , not to make a scene . 
The rest of the day is indescribable . 
I believe no one in the house really knew how it passed . 
The confusion of small events , all huddled together one on the other , bewildered everybody . 
There were dresses sent home that had been forgotten there were trunks to be packed and unpacked and packed again there were presents from friends far and near , friends high and low . 
We were all needlessly hurried , all nervously expectant of the morrow . 
Sir Percival , especially , was too restless now to remain five minutes together in the same place . 
That short , sharp cough of his troubled him more than ever . 
I can dwell on it no longer . 
Whatever future sorrows may be in store for me , I shall always look back on this twenty first of December as the most comfortless and most miserable day of my life . 
There she lay , unconscious that I was looking at her quiet , more quiet than I had dared to hope , but not sleeping . 
The glimmer of the night light showed me that her eyes were only partially closed the traces of tears glistened between her eye lids . 
A wild , unsettled morning . 
She has just risen better and calmer , now that the time has come , than she was yesterday . 
We have kissed each other we have promised each other not to lose courage . 
I am away for a moment in my own room . 
In the whirl and confusion of my thoughts , I can detect that strange fancy of some hindrance happening to stop the marriage still hanging about my mind . 
Is it hanging about HIS mind too ? I see him from the window , moving hither and thither uneasily among the carriages at the door . 
How can I write such folly ! The marriage is a certainty . 
In less than half an hour we start for the church . 
They are gone ! I am blind with crying I can write no more The First Epoch of the Story closes here . 
THE SECOND EPOCH THE STORY CONTINUED BY MARIAN HALCOMBE . 
I BLACKWATER PARK , HAMPSHIRE . 
I can hardly realise my own happiness I can hardly believe that the next four and twenty hours will complete the last day of separation between Laura and me . 
She and her husband have been in Italy all the winter , and afterwards in the Tyrol . 
So long as Laura returns , no matter who returns with her . 
Sir Percival may fill the house from floor to ceiling , if he likes , on condition that his wife and I inhabit it together . 
of Sir Percival Glyde , Bart . 
I left Limmeridge yesterday , having received Laura's delightful letter from Paris the day before . 
Laura has had more than enough of excitement and change of scene , and is pleased at the prospect of country tranquillity and retirement which her husband's prudence provides for her . 
As for me , I am ready to be happy anywhere in her society . 
We are all , therefore , well contented in our various ways , to begin with . 
Last night I slept in London , and was delayed there so long to day by various calls and commissions , that I did not reach Blackwater this evening till after dusk . 
Judging by my vague impressions of the place thus far , it is the exact opposite of Limmeridge . 
The house is situated on a dead flat , and seems to be shut in almost suffocated , to my north country notions , by trees . 
I have a nice little boudoir and bedroom , at the end of a long passage on the first floor . 
The servants and some of the spare rooms are on the second floor , and all the living rooms are on the ground floor . 
Eleven o'clock has just struck , in a ghostly and solemn manner , from a turret over the centre of the house , which I saw when I came in . 
A large dog has been woke , apparently by the sound of the bell , and is howling and yawning drearily , somewhere round a corner . 
I hear echoing footsteps in the passages below , and the iron thumping of bolts and bars at the house door . 
The servants are evidently going to bed . 
Shall I follow their example ? No , I am not half sleepy enough . 
Sleepy , did I say ? I feel as if I should never close my eyes again . 
The bare anticipation of seeing that dear face , and hearing that well known voice to morrow , keeps me in a perpetual fever of excitement . 
Reading is out of the question I can't fix my attention on books . 
Let me try if I can write myself into sleepiness and fatigue . 
My journal has been very much neglected of late . 
I received a few lines from him , after the landing of the expedition in Honduras , written more cheerfully and hopefully than he has written yet . 
A month or six weeks later I saw an extract from an American newspaper , describing the departure of the adventurers on their inland journey . 
They were last seen entering a wild primeval forest , each man with his rifle on his shoulder and his baggage at his back . 
Since that time , civilisation has lost all trace of them . 
Not a line more have I received from Walter , not a fragment of news from the expedition has appeared in any of the public journals . 
The same dense , disheartening obscurity hangs over the fate and fortunes of Anne Catherick , and her companion , Mrs. Clements . 
Nothing whatever has been heard of either of them . 
Whether they are in the country or out of it , whether they are living or dead , no one knows . 
Even Sir Percival's solicitor has lost all hope , and has ordered the useless search after the fugitives to be finally given up . 
Our good old friend Mr. Gilmore has met with a sad check in his active professional career . 
Early in the spring we were alarmed by hearing that he had been found insensible at his desk , and that the seizure was pronounced to be an apoplectic fit . 
Thus another true friend and trustworthy adviser is lost to us lost , I earnestly hope and trust , for a time only . 
Poor Mrs. Vesey travelled with me as far as London . 
She is to come here this autumn to visit her pupil I might almost say her adopted child . 
As for Mr. Fairlie , I believe I am guilty of no injustice if I describe him as being unutterably relieved by having the house clear of us women . 
His last caprice has led him to keep two photographers incessantly employed in producing sun pictures of all the treasures and curiosities in his possession . 
In the possession of Frederick Fairlie , Esquire . 
Copper coin of the period of Tiglath Pileser . 
In the possession of Frederick Fairlie , Esquire . 
Known all over Europe as THE SMUDGE , from a printer's blot in the corner which exists in no other copy . 
Valued at three hundred guineas . 
In the possession of Frederick Fairlie , Esq . 
Dozens of photographs of this sort , and all inscribed in this manner , were completed before I left Cumberland , and hundreds more remain to be done . 
So much for the persons and events which hold the foremost place in my memory . 
What next of the one person who holds the foremost place in my heart ? Laura has been present to my thoughts all the while I have been writing these lines . 
Sir Percival has settled that we leave on such a day Sir Percival has decided that we travel by such a road . 
Sometimes she writes Percival only , but very seldom in nine cases out of ten she gives him his title . 
I cannot find that his habits and opinions have changed and coloured hers in any single particular . 
The usual moral transformation which is insensibly wrought in a young , fresh , sensitive woman by her marriage , seems never to have taken place in Laura . 
I see no betrayal anywhere of sympathy of any kind existing between them . 
In all this there is no undertone of complaint to warn me that she is absolutely unhappy in her married life . 
The impression I have derived from our correspondence does not , thank God , lead me to any such distressing conclusion as that . 
In other words , it is always Laura Fairlie who has been writing to me for the last six months , and never Lady Glyde . 
They only quitted Vienna in the spring , and travelled as far as the Tyrol to meet the bride and bridegroom on their homeward journey . 
, Laura is provokingly circumspect and silent . 
She only says that he puzzles her , and that she will not tell me what her impression of him is until I have seen him , and formed my own opinion first . 
This , to my mind , looks ill for the Count . 
But , patience , patience this uncertainty , and many uncertainties more , cannot last much longer . 
To morrow will see all my doubts in a fair way of being cleared up , sooner or later . 
Twelve o'clock has struck , and I have just come back to close these pages , after looking out at my open window . 
It is a still , sultry , moonless night . 
The stars are dull and few . 
The trees that shut out the view on all sides look dimly black and solid in the distance , like a great wall of rock . 
I hear the croaking of frogs , faint and far off , and the echoes of the great clock hum in the airless calm long after the strokes have ceased . 
I wonder how Blackwater Park will look in the daytime ? I don't altogether like it by night . 
A day of investigations and discoveries a more interesting day , for many reasons , than I had ventured to anticipate . 
I began my sight seeing , of course , with the house . 
The main body of the building is of the time of that highly overrated woman , Queen Elizabeth . 
The rooms on the floor above the two galleries are kept in tolerable repair , but are very seldom used . 
The civil housekeeper , who acted as my guide , offered to show me over them , but considerately added that she feared I should find them rather out of order . 
The housekeeper said , I am quite of your opinion , miss , and appeared to think me the most sensible woman she had met with for a long time past . 
So much , then , for the main building . 
Two wings are added at either end of it . 
was once a place of residence standing by itself , and was built in the fourteenth century . 
One of Sir Percival's maternal ancestors I don't remember , and don't care which tacked on the main building , at right angles to it , in the aforesaid Queen Elizabeth's time . 
The housekeeper told me that the architecture of the old wing , both outside and inside , was considered remarkably fine by good judges . 
Under these circumstances , I unhesitatingly acknowledged myself to be no judge at all , and suggested that we should treat the old wing precisely as we had previously treated the Elizabethan bedrooms . 
Once more the housekeeper said , I am quite of your opinion , miss , and once more she looked at me with undisguised admiration of my extraordinary common sense . 
We went next to the wing on the right , which was built , by way of completing the wonderful architectural jumble at Blackwater Park , in the time of George the Second . 
This is the habitable part of the house , which has been repaired and redecorated inside on Laura's account . 
None of the rooms are anything like so large and airy as our rooms at Limmeridge , but they all look pleasant to live in . 
A large circular fishpond with stone sides , and an allegorical leaden monster in the middle , occupies the centre of the square . 
The pond itself is full of gold and silver fish , and is encircled by a broad belt of the softest turf I ever walked on . 
Daylight confirmed the impression which I had felt the night before , of there being too many trees at Blackwater . 
The house is stifled by them . 
They are , for the most part , young , and planted far too thickly . 
After looking about me in front of the house , I observed a flower garden on my left hand , and walked towards it to see what I could discover in that direction . 
On a nearer view the garden proved to be small and poor and ill kept . 
I left it behind me , opened a little gate in a ring fence , and found myself in a plantation of fir trees . 
A pretty winding path , artificially made , led me on among the trees , and my north country experience soon informed me that I was approaching sandy , heathy ground . 
The ground , shelving away below me , was all sand , with a few little heathy hillocks to break the monotony of it in certain places . 
The lake itself had evidently once flowed to the spot on which I stood , and had been gradually wasted and dried up to less than a third of its former size . 
On the farther bank from me the trees rose thickly again , and shut out the view , and cast their black shadows on the sluggish , shallow water . 
As I walked down to the lake , I saw that the ground on its farther side was damp and marshy , overgrown with rank grass and dismal willows . 
I entered the place , and sat down for a little while to rest and get my breath again . 
I had not been in the boat house more than a minute when it struck me that the sound of my own quick breathing was very strangely echoed by something beneath me . 
I listened intently for a moment , and heard a low , thick , sobbing breath that seemed to come from the ground under the seat which I was occupying . 
There , crouched up in the farthest corner , lay the forlorn cause of my terror , in the shape of a poor little dog a black and white spaniel . 
The creature moaned feebly when I looked at it and called to it , but never stirred . 
I moved away the seat and looked closer . 
The poor little dog's eyes were glazing fast , and there were spots of blood on its glossy white side . 
The misery of a weak , helpless , dumb creature is surely one of the saddest of all the mournful sights which this world can show . 
In this way I took the creature , as painlessly as possible , and as fast as possible , back to the house . 
The largest and fattest of all possible house maids answered it , in a state of cheerful stupidity which would have provoked the patience of a saint . 
The girl's fat , shapeless face actually stretched into a broad grin at the sight of the wounded creature on the floor . 
What do you see there to laugh at ? I asked , as angrily as if she had been a servant of my own . 
Do you know whose dog it is ? No , miss , that I certainly don't . 
I was so exasperated that I could have boxed her ears . 
Who is the brute you call Baxter ? The girl grinned again more cheerfully than ever . 
Bless you , miss ! Baxter's the keeper , and when he finds strange dogs hunting about , he takes and shoots 'em . 
It's keeper's dooty miss , I think that dog will die . 
Here's where he's been shot , ain't it ? That's Baxter's doings , that is . 
Baxter's doings , miss , and Baxter's dooty . 
I was almost wicked enough to wish that Baxter had shot the housemaid instead of the dog . 
She went out exactly as she had come in , grinning from ear to ear . 
As the door closed on her she said to herself softly , It's Baxter's doings and Baxter's dooty that's what it is . 
The housekeeper , a person of some education and intelligence , thoughtfully brought upstairs with her some milk and some warm water . 
The instant she saw the dog on the floor she started and changed colour . 
Why , Lord bless me , cried the housekeeper , that must be Mrs. Catherick's dog ! Whose ? I asked , in the utmost astonishment . 
You seem to know Mrs. Catherick , Miss Halcombe ? Not personally , but I have heard of her . 
Does she live here ? Has she had any news of her daughter ? No , Miss Halcombe , she came here to ask for news . 
She said some one had reported that a stranger answering to the description of her daughter had been seen in our neighbourhood . 
No such report has reached us here , and no such report was known in the village , when I sent to make inquiries there on Mrs. Catherick's account . 
She certainly brought this poor little dog with her when she came , and I saw it trot out after her when she went away . 
I suppose the creature strayed into the plantations , and got shot . 
Where did you find it , Miss Halcombe ? In the old shed that looks out on the lake . 
Ah , yes , that is the plantation side , and the poor thing dragged itself , I suppose , to the nearest shelter , as dogs will , to die . 
If you can moisten its lips with the milk , Miss Halcombe , I will wash the clotted hair from the wound . 
I am very much afraid it is too late to do any good . 
However , we can but try . 
Mrs. Catherick ! The name still rang in my ears , as if the housekeeper had only that moment surprised me by uttering it . 
The finding of the wounded spaniel had led me already to the discovery of Mrs. Catherick's visit to Blackwater Park , and that event might lead in its turn , to something more . 
I determined to make the most of the chance which was now offered to me , and to gain as much information as I could . 
Did you say that Mrs. Catherick lived anywhere in this neighbourhood ? I asked . 
Oh dear , no , said the housekeeper . 
She lives at Welmingham , quite at the other end of the county five and twenty miles off , at least . 
I suppose you have known Mrs. Catherick for some years ? On the contrary , Miss Halcombe , I never saw her before she came here yesterday . 
I had heard of her , of course , because I had heard of Sir Percival's kindness in putting her daughter under medical care . 
Mrs. Catherick is rather a strange person in her manners , but extremely respectable looking . 
I am rather interested about Mrs. Catherick , I went on , continuing the conversation as long as possible . 
I wish I had arrived here soon enough to see her yesterday . 
Mrs. Catherick got up and left at once , when she heard the maid tell me what the visitor's errand was . 
She said to me , at parting , that there was no need to tell Sir Percival of her coming here . 
I thought that rather an odd remark to make , especially to a person in my responsible situation . 
I thought it an odd remark too . 
Sir Percival had certainly led me to believe , at Limmeridge , that the most perfect confidence existed between himself and Mrs. Catherick . 
Did she talk much on that subject ? Very little , replied the housekeeper . 
She talked principally of Sir Percival , and asked a great many questions about where he had been travelling , and what sort of lady his new wife was . 
She seemed to be more soured and put out than distressed , by failing to find any traces of her daughter in these parts . 
'I give her up , were the last words she said that I can remember 'I give her up , ma'am , for lost . 
Look , Miss Halcombe , the poor thing is out of its misery at last ! The dog was dead . 
The change had happened with startling suddenness in one moment the creature lay lifeless under our hands . 
I have just returned from dining downstairs , in solitary state . 
They ought to have arrived , by my calculations , before this . 
Welmingham I see , on looking back through these private pages of mine , that Welmingham is the name of the place where Mrs. Catherick lives . 
Her note is still in my possession , the note in answer to that letter about her unhappy daughter which Sir Percival obliged me to write . 
What would Walter Hartright have said in this emergency ? Poor , dear Hartright ! I am beginning to feel the want of his honest advice and his willing help already . 
Was it a bustle of footsteps below stairs ? Yes ! I hear the horses' feet I hear the rolling wheels II June th . 
The confusion of their arrival has had time to subside . 
Two days have elapsed since the return of the travellers , and that interval has sufficed to put the new machinery of our lives at Blackwater Park in fair working order . 
I may now return to my journal , with some little chance of being able to continue the entries in it as collectedly as usual . 
I think I must begin by putting down an odd remark which has suggested itself to me since Laura came back . 
It has partially worn away , now that we have fallen back into most of our old habits , and it will probably disappear before long . 
She has found me unaltered , but I have found her changed . 
Changed in person , and in one respect changed in character . 
I cannot absolutely say that she is less beautiful than she used to be I can only say that she is less beautiful to me . 
Others , who do not look at her with my eyes and my recollections , would probably think her improved . 
But I miss something when I look at her something that once belonged to the happy , innocent life of Laura Fairlie , and that I cannot find in Lady Glyde . 
None of her letters had prepared me for a personal change in her . 
On the contrary , they had led me to expect that her marriage had left her , in appearance at least , quite unaltered . 
I would tell you everything , darling , about myself , she went on , nervously buckling and unbuckling the ribbon round my waist , if my confidences could only end there . 
I don't say that they would distress you , or distress me I wouldn't have you think that for the world . 
Have you been writing many letters , and receiving many letters lately ? she asked , in low , suddenly altered tones . 
I understood what the question meant , but I thought it my duty not to encourage her by meeting her half way . 
Is he well and happy , and getting on in his profession ? Has he recovered himself and forgotten me ? She should not have asked those questions . 
All I could honestly do was to reply that I had not written to him or heard from him lately , and then to turn the conversation to less dangerous topics . 
There has been much to sadden me in our interview my first confidential interview with her since her return . 
rooted as deeply as ever in her heart all these are disclosures to sadden any woman who loves her as dearly , and feels for her as acutely , as I do . 
There is only one consolation to set against them a consolation that ought to comfort me , and that does comfort me . 
Of my other impressions I am sometimes a little inclined to doubt . 
Of this last , best , happiest of all impressions , I grow more and more certain every hour in the day . 
Let me turn , now , from her to her travelling companions . 
Her husband must engage my attention first . 
What have I observed in Sir Percival , since his return , to improve my opinion of him ? I can hardly say . 
Small vexations and annoyances seem to have beset him since he came back , and no man , under those circumstances , is ever presented at his best . 
He looks , as I think , thinner than he was when he left England . 
His wearisome cough and his comfortless restlessness have certainly increased . 
His manner at least his manner towards me is much more abrupt than it used to be . 
If I take a book from the library and leave it on the table , he follows me and puts it back again . 
If I rise from a chair , and let it remain where I have been sitting , he carefully restores it to its proper place against the wall . 
I have already referred to the small annoyances which appear to have troubled him since his return . 
Much of the alteration for the worse which I have noticed in him may be due to these . 
I try to persuade myself that it is so , because I am anxious not to be disheartened already about the future . 
On the evening of their arrival the housekeeper followed me into the hall to receive her master and mistress and their guests . 
The instant he saw her , Sir Percival asked if any one had called lately . 
The housekeeper mentioned to him , in reply , what she had previously mentioned to me , the visit of the strange gentleman to make inquiries about the time of her master's return . 
He asked immediately for the gentleman's name . 
No name had been left . 
The gentleman's business ? No business had been mentioned . 
What was the gentleman like ? The housekeeper tried to describe him , but failed to distinguish the nameless visitor by any personal peculiarity which her master could recognise . 
Sir Percival frowned , stamped angrily on the floor , and walked on into the house , taking no notice of anybody . 
Why he should have been so discomposed by a trifle I cannot say but he was seriously discomposed , beyond all doubt . 
I will turn over to a new page , and my pen shall let Laura's husband alone for the present . 
The two guests the Count and Countess Fosco come next in my catalogue . 
I will dispose of the Countess first , so as to have done with the woman as soon as possible . 
Laura was certainly not chargeable with any exaggeration , in writing me word that I should hardly recognise her aunt again when we met . 
Never before have I beheld such a change produced in a woman by her marriage as has been produced in Madame Fosco . 
, she was always talking pretentious nonsense , and always worrying the unfortunate men with every small exaction which a vain and foolish woman can impose on long suffering male humanity . 
, she sits for hours together without saying a word , frozen up in the strangest manner in herself . 
A plain , matronly cap covers her head , and makes her look , for the first time in her life since I remember her , like a decent woman . 
now sees in her , what everybody once saw I mean the structure of the female skeleton , in the upper regions of the collar bones and the shoulder blades . 
incessantly engaged , either in monotonous embroidery work or in rolling up endless cigarettes for the Count's own particular smoking . 
to whom the Count speaks , or on whom he looks with anything approaching to special interest or attention . 
How far she is really reformed or deteriorated in her secret self , is another question . 
It is quite possible that I may be altogether wrong in this idea . 
My own impression , however , is , that I am right . 
If he had married a tigress , instead of a woman , he would have tamed the tigress . 
If he had married me , I should have made his cigarettes , as his wife does I should have held my tongue when he looked at me , as she holds hers . 
I am almost afraid to confess it , even to these secret pages . 
The man has interested me , has attracted me , has forced me to like him . 
In two short days he has made his way straight into my favourable estimation , and how he has worked the miracle is more than I can tell . 
I know what his conversation was yesterday , as well as if I was hearing it now . 
What is it that makes me unable to blame them , or to ridicule them in HIM ? For example , he is immensely fat . 
Before this time I have always especially disliked corpulent humanity . 
I have invariably combated both these absurd assertions by quoting examples of fat people who were as mean , vicious , and cruel as the leanest and the worst of their neighbours . 
Marvellous indeed ! Is it his face that has recommended him ? It may be his face . 
He is a most remarkable likeness , on a large scale , of the great Napoleon . 
His features have Napoleon's magnificent regularity his expression recalls the grandly calm , immovable power of the Great Soldier's face . 
This striking resemblance certainly impressed me , to begin with but there is something in him besides the resemblance , which has impressed me more . 
I think the influence I am now trying to find is in his eyes . 
Other parts of his face and head have their strange peculiarities . 
he is close on sixty years of age . 
But these are not the prominent personal characteristics which distinguish him , to my mind , from all the other men I have ever seen . 
His manner and his command of our language may also have assisted him , in some degree , to establish himself in my good opinion . 
Here , too , his unusual command of the English language necessarily helps him . 
All the smallest characteristics of this strange man have something strikingly original and perplexingly contradictory in them . 
Fat as he is and old as he is , his movements are astonishingly light and easy . 
He starts at chance noises as inveterately as Laura herself . 
He winced and shuddered yesterday , when Sir Percival beat one of the spaniels , so that I felt ashamed of my own want of tenderness and sensibility by comparison with the Count . 
The relation of this last incident reminds me of one of his most curious peculiarities , which I have not yet mentioned his extraordinary fondness for pet animals . 
Some of these he has left on the Continent , but he has brought with him to this house a cockatoo , two canary birds , and a whole family of white mice . 
He attends to all the necessities of these strange favourites himself , and he has taught the creatures to be surprisingly fond of him and familiar with him . 
The cockatoo , a most vicious and treacherous bird towards every one else , absolutely seems to love him . 
His white mice live in a little pagoda of gaily painted wirework , designed and made by himself . 
They are almost as tame as the canaries , and they are perpetually let out like the canaries . 
They crawl all over him , popping in and out of his waistcoat , and sitting in couples , white as snow , on his capacious shoulders . 
He seems to be even fonder of his mice than of his other pets , smiles at them , and kisses them , and calls them by all sorts of endearing names . 
But the Count , apparently , sees nothing ridiculous in the amazing contrast between his colossal self and his frail little pets . 
His wife and I were present , and I shall not forget the scene that followed , short as it was . 
Mind that dog , sir , said the groom he flies at everybody ! He does that , my friend , replied the Count quietly , because everybody is afraid of him . 
Let us see if he flies at me . 
You big dogs are all cowards , he said , addressing the animal contemptuously , with his face and the dog's within an inch of each other . 
You would kill a poor cat , you infernal coward . 
You would fly at a starving beggar , you infernal coward . 
You could throttle me at this moment , you mean , miserable bully , and you daren't so much as look me in the face , because I'm not afraid of you . 
Ah ! my nice waistcoat ! he said pathetically . 
I am sorry I came here . 
Some of that brute's slobber has got on my pretty clean waistcoat . 
Those words express another of his incomprehensible oddities . 
His tact and cleverness in small things are quite as noticeable as the singular inconsistencies in his character , and the childish triviality of his ordinary tastes and pursuits . 
I can see already that he means to live on excellent terms with all of us during the period of his sojourn in this place . 
but he has also found out that she is extravagantly fond of flowers . 
His management of the Countess is a sight to see . 
The rod of iron with which he rules her never appears in company it is a private rod , and is always kept upstairs . 
His method of recommending himself to me is entirely different . 
He flatters my vanity by talking to me as seriously and sensibly as if I was a man . 
The interest which I really cannot help feeling in this strangely original man has led me to question Sir Percival about his past life . 
Sir Percival either knows little , or will tell me little , about it . 
He and the Count first met many years ago , at Rome , under the dangerous circumstances to which I have alluded elsewhere . 
On the evening of his arrival he asked how far we were from the nearest town , and whether we knew of any Italian gentlemen who might happen to be settled there . 
Perhaps he is in correspondence with his government ? And yet , that is hardly to be reconciled either with my other idea that he may be a political exile . 
He seems to have established over me the same sort of ascendency which he has evidently gained over Sir Percival . 
I wonder whether I am afraid too ? I certainly never saw a man , in all my experience , whom I should be so sorry to have for an enemy . 
Is this because I like him , or because I am afraid of him ? Chi sa ? as Count Fosco might say in his own language . 
Who knows ? June th . 
Something to chronicle to day besides my own ideas and impressions . 
A visitor has arrived quite unknown to Laura and to me , and apparently quite unexpected by Sir Percival . 
had just amused us by asking gravely for his fourth tart when the servant entered to announce the visitor . 
Mr. Merriman has just come , Sir Percival , and wishes to see you immediately . 
Sir Percival started , and looked at the man with an expression of angry alarm . 
Mr. Merriman ! he repeated , as if he thought his own ears must have deceived him . 
Yes , Sir Percival Mr. Merriman , from London . 
Where is he ? In the library , Sir Percival . 
He left the table the instant the last answer was given , and hurried out of the room without saying a word to any of us . 
Who is Mr. Merriman ? asked Laura , appealing to me . 
I have not the least idea , was all I could say in reply . 
The Count had finished his fourth tart , and had gone to a side table to look after his vicious cockatoo . 
He turned round to us with the bird perched on his shoulder . 
Mr. Merriman is Sir Percival's solicitor , he said quietly . 
It was a perfectly straightforward answer to Laura's question , and yet , under the circumstances , it was not satisfactory . 
If Mr. Merriman had been specially sent for by his client , there would have been nothing very wonderful in his leaving town to obey the summons . 
Laura and I sat silent at the table for a quarter of an hour or more , wondering uneasily what had happened , and waiting for the chance of Sir Percival's speedy return . 
There were no signs of his return , and we rose to leave the room . 
Laura and Madame Fosco went out first . 
Just as I was on the point of following them he made a sign with his hand , and spoke to me , before I passed him , in the oddest manner . 
I joined Laura at the foot of the stairs . 
The thought in her mind was the same as the thought in mine , which Count Fosco had surprised , and when she spoke her words were almost the echo of his . 
She , too , said to me secretly that she was afraid something had happened . 
I have a few lines more to add to this day's entry before I go to bed to night . 
Just as I was at the end of the landing the library door opened and the two gentlemen came out . 
Thinking it best not to disturb them by appearing on the stairs , I resolved to defer going down till they had crossed the hall . 
Although they spoke to each other in guarded tones , their words were pronounced with sufficient distinctness of utterance to reach my ears . 
Make your mind easy , Sir Percival , I heard the lawyer say it all rests with Lady Glyde . 
I had turned to go back to my own room for a minute or two , but the sound of Laura's name on the lips of a stranger stopped me instantly . 
You quite understand , Sir Percival , the lawyer went on . 
If that is done in a week's time the arrangement will be perfectly successful , and the anxiety will be all over . 
If not What do you mean by 'if not' ? asked Sir Percival angrily . 
If the thing must be done it SHALL be done . 
I promise you that , Merriman . 
Just so , Sir Percival just so but there are two alternatives in all transactions , and we lawyers like to look both of them in the face boldly . 
If through any extraordinary circumstance the arrangement should not be made , I think I may be able to get the parties to accept bills at three months . 
Take a glass of wine , Merriman , before you go . 
Much obliged , Sir Percival , I have not a moment to lose if I am to catch the up train . 
You will let me know as soon as the arrangement is complete ? and you will not forget the caution I recommended Of course I won't . 
There's the dog cart at the door for you . 
My groom will get you to the station in no time . 
Benjamin , drive like mad ! Jump in . 
If Mr. Merriman misses the train you lose your place . 
Hold fast , Merriman , and if you are upset trust to the devil to save his own . 
With that parting benediction the baronet turned about and walked back to the library . 
I had not heard much , but the little that had reached my ears was enough to make me feel uneasy . 
The something that had happened was but too plainly a serious money embarrassment , and Sir Percival's relief from it depended upon Laura . 
The prospect of seeing her involved in her husband's secret difficulties filled me with dismay , exaggerated , no doubt , by my ignorance of business and my settled distrust of Sir Percival . 
Instead of going out , as I proposed , I went back immediately to Laura's room to tell her what I had heard . 
She received my bad news so composedly as to surprise me . 
She evidently knows more of her husband's character and her husband's embarrassments than I have suspected up to this time . 
I feared as much , she said , when I heard of that strange gentleman who called , and declined to leave his name . 
Who do you think the gentleman was , then ? I asked . 
Some person who has heavy claims on Sir Percival , she answered , and who has been the cause of Mr. Merriman's visit here to day . 
Do you know anything about those claims ? No , I know no particulars . 
You will sign nothing , Laura , without first looking at it ? Certainly not , Marian . 
Whatever I can harmlessly and honestly do to help him I will do for the sake of making your life and mine , love , as easy and as happy as possible . 
But I will do nothing ignorantly , which we might , one day , have reason to feel ashamed of . 
Let us say no more about it now . 
You have got your hat on suppose we go and dream away the afternoon in the grounds ? On leaving the house we directed our steps to the nearest shade . 
He had a broad straw hat on , with a violet coloured ribbon round it . 
Nankeen trousers , displaying more white fancy work over the ankles , and purple morocco slippers , adorned his lower extremities . 
Cecilia masquerading in male attire . 
Take my word for it , Laura , that man knows something of Sir Percival's embarrassments , I said , as we returned the Count's salutation from a safe distance . 
What makes you think that ? she asked . 
How should he have known , otherwise , that Mr. Merriman was Sir Percival's solicitor ? I rejoined . 
Besides , when I followed you out of the luncheon room , he told me , without a single word of inquiry on my part , that something had happened . 
Depend upon it , he knows more than we do . 
Don't ask him any questions if he does . 
Don't take him into our confidence ! You seem to dislike him , Laura , in a very determined manner . 
What has he said or done to justify you ? Nothing , Marian . 
On the contrary , he was all kindness and attention on our journey home , and he several times checked Sir Percival's outbreaks of temper , in the most considerate manner towards me . 
Perhaps I dislike him because he has so much more power over my husband than I have . 
Perhaps it hurts my pride to be under any obligations to his interference . 
All I know is , that I DO dislike him . 
The rest of the day and evening passed quietly enough . 
The Count and I played at chess . 
Sir Percival never once referred , all through the evening , to the lawyer's visit . 
But either that event , or something else , had produced a singular alteration for the better in him . 
What does this mean ? I think I can guess I am afraid Laura can guess and I am sure Count Fosco knows . 
I caught Sir Percival looking at him for approval more than once in the course of the evening . 
I most fervently hope I may not have to add , a day of disasters as well . 
which is hanging over our heads . 
We expect to see him here directly , I said . 
He stopped , and appeared to notice , for the first time , that we were in our walking costume . 
Have you just come in ? he asked , or were you just going out ? We were all thinking of going to the lake this morning , said Laura . 
But if you have any other arrangement to propose No , no , he answered hastily . 
After lunch will do as well for it as after breakfast . 
All going to the lake , eh ? A good idea . 
Let's have an idle morning I'll be one of the party . 
He was evidently relieved at finding any excuse for delaying the business formality in the library , to which his own words had referred . 
My heart sank within me as I drew the inevitable inference . 
The Count and his wife joined us at that moment . 
The lady had her husband's embroidered tobacco pouch , and her store of paper in her hand , for the manufacture of the eternal cigarettes . 
With your kind permission , said the Count , I will take my small family here my poor little harmless pretty Mouseys , out for an airing along with us . 
In the plantation Sir Percival strayed away from us . 
The mere act of cutting and lopping at hazard appears to please him . 
He has filled the house with walking sticks of his own making , not one of which he ever takes up for a second time . 
When they have been once used his interest in them is all exhausted , and he thinks of nothing but going on and making more . 
At the old boat house he joined us again . 
I will put down the conversation that ensued when we were all settled in our places exactly as it passed . 
The boat house was large enough to hold us all , but Sir Percival remained outside trimming the last new stick with his pocket axe . 
We three women found plenty of room on the large seat . 
Laura took her work , and Madame Fosco began her cigarettes . 
I , as usual , had nothing to do . 
My hands always were , and always will be , as awkward as a man's . 
He put the pagoda cage on his lap , and let out the mice to crawl over him as usual . 
They are pretty , innocent looking little creatures , but the sight of them creeping about a man's body is for some reason not pleasant to me . 
It excites a strange responsive creeping in my own nerves , and suggests hideous ideas of men dying in prison with the crawling creatures of the dungeon preying on them undisturbed . 
The morning was windy and cloudy , and the rapid alternations of shadow and sunlight over the waste of the lake made the view look doubly wild , weird , and gloomy . 
Some people call that picturesque , said Sir Percival , pointing over the wide prospect with his half finished walking stick . 
I call it a blot on a gentleman's property . 
In my great grandfather's time the lake flowed to this place . 
Look at it now ! It is not four feet deep anywhere , and it is all puddles and pools . 
I wish I could afford to drain it , and plant it all over . 
says he is quite sure the lake has a curse on it , like the Dead Sea . 
What do you think , Fosco ? It looks just the place for a murder , doesn't it ? My good Percival , remonstrated the Count . 
What is your solid English sense thinking of ? The water is too shallow to hide the body , and there is sand everywhere to print off the murderer's footsteps . 
It is , upon the whole , the very worst place for a murder that I ever set my eyes on . 
Humbug ! said Sir Percival , cutting away fiercely at his stick . 
You know what I mean . 
The dreary scenery , the lonely situation . 
If you choose to understand me , you can if you don't choose , I am not going to trouble myself to explain my meaning . 
If a wise man was going to commit a murder , your lake is the last place he would choose for it . 
Is that your meaning ? If it is , there is your explanation for you ready made . 
Take it , Percival , with your good Fosco's blessing . 
Laura looked at the Count with her dislike for him appearing a little too plainly in her face . 
He was so busy with his mice that he did not notice her . 
I am sorry to hear the lake view connected with anything so horrible as the idea of murder , she said . 
And if Count Fosco must divide murderers into classes , I think he has been very unfortunate in his choice of expressions . 
To describe them as fools only seems like treating them with an indulgence to which they have no claim . 
And to describe them as wise men sounds to me like a downright contradiction in terms . 
I have always heard that truly wise men are truly good men , and have a horror of crime . 
My dear lady , said the Count , those are admirable sentiments , and I have seen them stated at the tops of copy books . 
He lifted one of the white mice in the palm of his hand , and spoke to it in his whimsical way . 
My pretty little smooth white rascal , he said , here is a moral lesson for you . 
A truly wise mouse is a truly good mouse . 
Mention that , if you please , to your companions , and never gnaw at the bars of your cage again as long as you live . 
The Count shrugged his huge shoulders , and smiled on Laura in the friendliest manner . 
Most true ! he said . 
The fool's crime is the crime that is found out , and the wise man's crime is the crime that is NOT found out . 
If I could give you an instance , it would not be the instance of a wise man . 
Dear Lady Glyde , your sound English common sense has been too much for me . 
It is checkmate for me this time , Miss Halcombe ha ? Stand to your guns , Laura , sneered Sir Percival , who had been listening in his place at the door . 
Tell him next , that crimes cause their own detection . 
There's another bit of copy book morality for you , Fosco . 
Crimes cause their own detection . 
What infernal humbug ! I believe it to be true , said Laura quietly . 
Sir Percival burst out laughing , so violently , so outrageously , that he quite startled us all the Count more than any of us . 
I believe it too , I said , coming to Laura's rescue . 
Sir Percival , who had been unaccountably amused at his wife's remark , was just as unaccountably irritated by mine . 
He struck the new stick savagely on the sand , and walked away from us . 
Poor dear Percival ! cried Count Fosco , looking after him gaily , he is the victim of English spleen . 
Do you , indeed ? I said . 
I remember the time , Countess , when you advocated the Rights of Women , and freedom of female opinion was one of them . 
What is your view of the subject , Count ? asked Madame Fosco , calmly proceeding with her cigarettes , and not taking the least notice of me . 
The Count stroked one of his white mice reflectively with his chubby little finger before he answered . 
It is truly wonderful , he said , how easily Society can console itself for the worst of its shortcomings with a little bit of clap trap . 
, will it ? Ask Coroners who sit at inquests in large towns if that is true , Lady Glyde . 
Ask secretaries of life assurance companies if that is true , Miss Halcombe . 
Read your own public journals . 
That there are foolish criminals who are discovered , and wise criminals who escape . 
When the criminal is a brutal , ignorant fool , the police in nine cases out of ten win . 
When the criminal is a resolute , educated , highly intelligent man , the police in nine cases out of ten lose . 
If the police win , you generally hear all about it . 
If the police lose , you generally hear nothing . 
And on this tottering foundation you build up your comfortable moral maxim that Crime causes its own detection ! Yes all the crime you know of . 
And what of the rest ? Devilish true , and very well put , cried a voice at the entrance of the boat house . 
Sir Percival had recovered his equanimity , and had come back while we were listening to the Count . 
Some of it may be true , I said , and all of it may be very well put . 
Do you hear that , Fosco ? asked Sir Percival . 
Take my advice , and make your peace with your audience . 
Tell them virtue's a fine thing they like that , I can promise you . 
The ladies , my good Percival , shall tell me about virtue , he said . 
They are better authorities than I am , for they know what virtue is , and I don't . 
You hear him ? said Sir Percival . 
Isn't it awful ? It is true , said the Count quietly . 
Here , in England , there is one virtue . 
And there , in China , there is another virtue . 
And John Englishman says my virtue is the genuine virtue . 
And John Chinaman says my virtue is the genuine virtue . 
Ah , nice little Mousey ! come , kiss me . 
What is your own private notion of a virtuous man , my pret pret pretty ? A man who keeps you warm , and gives you plenty to eat . 
And a good notion , too , for it is intelligible , at the least . 
Stay a minute , Count , I interposed . 
Accepting your illustration , surely we have one unquestionable virtue in England which is wanting in China . 
The Chinese authorities kill thousands of innocent people on the most frivolous pretexts . 
We in England are free from all guilt of that kind we commit no such dreadful crime we abhor reckless bloodshed with all our hearts . 
Quite right , Marian , said Laura . 
Well thought of , and well expressed Pray allow the Count to proceed , said Madame Fosco , with stern civility . 
You will find , young ladies , that HE never speaks without having excellent reasons for all that he says . 
Thank you , my angel , replied the Count . 
Have a bon bon ? He took out of his pocket a pretty little inlaid box , and placed it open on the table . 
Chocolat a la Vanille , cried the impenetrable man , cheerfully rattling the sweetmeats in the box , and bowing all round . 
Offered by Fosco as an act of homage to the charming society . 
Be good enough to go on , Count , said his wife , with a spiteful reference to myself . 
Oblige me by answering Miss Halcombe . 
Miss Halcombe is unanswerable , replied the polite Italian that is to say , so far as she goes . 
Yes ! I agree with her . 
John Bull does abhor the crimes of John Chinaman . 
Yes ! yes ! Crime is in this country what crime is in other countries a good friend to a man and to those about him as often as it is an enemy . 
A great rascal provides for his wife and family . 
The worse he is the more he makes them the objects for your sympathy . 
He often provides also for himself . 
A profligate spendthrift who is always borrowing money will get more from his friends than the rigidly honest man who only borrows of them once , under pressure of the direst want . 
In the one case the friends will not be at all surprised , and they will give . 
In the other case they will be very much surprised , and they will hesitate . 
Come here , my jolly little Mouse ! Hey ! presto ! pass ! I transform you , for the time being , into a respectable lady . 
Stop there , in the palm of my great big hand , my dear , and listen . 
You marry the poor man whom you love , Mouse , and one half your friends pity , and the other half blame you . 
Hey ! presto ! pass ! Be a mouse again , and squeak . 
Dear ladies , as your excellent Sheridan said , I go and leave my character behind me . 
He got up , put the cage on the table , and paused for a moment to count the mice in it . 
The Count's glib cynicism had revealed a new aspect of his nature from which we both recoiled . 
But it was impossible to resist the comical distress of so very large a man at the loss of so very small a mouse . 
Before we had taken three steps , the Count's quick eye discovered the lost mouse under the seat that we had been occupying . 
Percival ! he said , in a whisper . 
Sir Percival had paid no attention to any of us for the last ten minutes . 
He had been entirely absorbed in writing figures on the sand , and then rubbing them out again with the point of his stick . 
What's the matter now ? he asked , lounging carelessly into the boat house . 
I see plenty of dry sand , answered Sir Percival , and a spot of dirt in the middle of it . 
Not dirt , whispered the Count , fastening the other hand suddenly on Sir Percival's collar , and shaking it in his agitation . 
Laura was near enough to hear the last word , softly as he whispered it . 
She turned to me with a look of terror . 
Nonsense , my dear , I said . 
There is no need to be alarmed . 
It is only the blood of a poor little stray dog . 
Everybody was astonished , and everybody's eyes were fixed on me inquiringly . 
How do you know that ? asked Sir Percival , speaking first . 
I found the dog here , dying , on the day when you all returned from abroad , I replied . 
The poor creature had strayed into the plantation , and had been shot by your keeper . 
Whose dog was it ? inquired Sir Percival . 
Not one of mine ? Did you try to save the poor thing ? asked Laura earnestly . 
Whose dog was it ? persisted Sir Percival , repeating his question a little irritably . 
One of mine ? No , not one of yours . 
There was nothing for it but to answer at once , without reference to results . 
She told me it was Mrs. Catherick's dog . 
Sir Percival had hitherto remained at the inner end of the boat house with Count Fosco , while I spoke to him from the door . 
But the instant Mrs. Catherick's name passed my lips he pushed by the Count roughly , and placed himself face to face with me under the open daylight . 
She knew it , I said quietly , because Mrs. Catherick brought the dog with her . 
Brought it with her ? Where did she bring it with her ? To this house . 
What the devil did Mrs. Catherick want at this house ? The manner in which he put the question was even more offensive than the language in which he expressed it . 
I marked my sense of his want of common politeness by silently turning away from him . 
Just as I moved the Count's persuasive hand was laid on his shoulder , and the Count's mellifluous voice interposed to quiet him . 
My dear Percival ! gently gently ! Sir Percival looked round in his angriest manner . 
The Count only smiled and repeated the soothing application . 
Gently , my good friend gently ! Sir Percival hesitated , followed me a few steps , and , to my great surprise , offered me an apology . 
I beg your pardon , Miss Halcombe , he said . 
I have been out of order lately , and I am afraid I am a little irritable . 
But I should like to know what Mrs. Catherick could possibly want here . 
When did she come ? Was the housekeeper the only person who saw her ? The only person , I answered , so far as I know . 
In that case why not question the housekeeper ? he said . 
Why not go , Percival , to the fountain head of information at once ? Quite right ! said Sir Percival . 
Of course the housekeeper is the first person to question . 
Excessively stupid of me not to see it myself . 
With those words he instantly left us to return to the house . 
The motive of the Count's interference , which had puzzled me at first , betrayed itself when Sir Percival's back was turned . 
I made my answers as short as I civilly could , for I had already determined to check the least approach to any exchanging of confidences between Count Fosco and myself . 
The effect of my information on him was , in one respect , curious enough . 
It was impossible to mistake the eager curiosity of the Count's look and manner while he drank in greedily every word that fell from my lips . 
While the questions and answers were going on , we had all been strolling quietly back through the plantation . 
If these unexpected appearances were to be trusted , the examination of the house keeper had produced important results already . 
Aha ! said the Count , does he indeed ? I wonder he gives himself the trouble when he has got you to drive for him . 
Is he going to fatigue that nice , shining , pretty horse by taking him very far to day ? I don't know , sir , answered the man . 
The horse is a mare , if you please , sir . 
She's the highest couraged thing we've got in the stables . 
Her name's Brown Molly , sir , and she'll go till she drops . 
Sir Percival usually takes Isaac of York for the short distances . 
And your shining courageous Brown Molly for the long ? Logical inference , Miss Halcombe , continued the Count , wheeling round briskly , and addressing me . 
Sir Percival is going a long distance to day . 
, he walked away a long distance , on Anne's account , to question the family at Todd's Corner . 
Now he is in Hampshire , is he going to drive away a long distance , on Anne's account again , to question Mrs. Catherick at Welmingham ? We all entered the house . 
As we crossed the hall Sir Percival came out from the library to meet us . 
He looked hurried and pale and anxious but for all that , he was in his most polite mood when he spoke to us . 
I am sorry to say I am obliged to leave you , he began a long drive a matter that I can't very well put off . 
I shall be back in good time to morrow but before I go I should like that little business formality , which I spoke of this morning , to be settled . 
Laura , will you come into the library ? It won't take a minute a mere formality . 
Countess , may I trouble you also ? I want you and the Countess , Fosco , to be witnesses to a signature nothing more . 
Come in at once and get it over . 
He held the library door open until they had passed in , followed them , and shut it softly . 
I remained , for a moment afterwards , standing alone in the hall , with my heart beating fast and my mind misgiving me sadly . 
Then I went on to the staircase , and ascended slowly to my own room . 
Just as my hand was on the door of my room , I heard Sir Percival's voice calling to me from below . 
I must beg you to come downstairs again , he said . 
It is Fosco's fault , Miss Halcombe , not mine . 
He has started some nonsensical objection to his wife being one of the witnesses , and has obliged me to ask you to join us in the library . 
I entered the room immediately with Sir Percival . 
Laura was waiting by the writing table , twisting and turning her garden hat uneasily in her hands . 
The moment I appeared the Count advanced to meet me , and to offer his explanations . 
A thousand pardons , Miss Halcombe , he said . 
You know the character which is given to my countrymen by the English ? We Italians are all wily and suspicious by nature , in the estimation of the good John Bull . 
Set me down , if you please , as being no better than the rest of my race . 
I am a wily Italian and a suspicious Italian . 
There is not the shadow of a reason for his objection , interposed Sir Percival . 
I have explained to him that the law of England allows Madame Fosco to witness a signature as well as her husband . 
I admit it , resumed the Count . 
What this document which Lady Glyde is about to sign may be , he continued , I neither know nor desire to know . 
This cannot be if my wife signs as well as myself , because we have but one opinion between us , and that opinion is mine . 
, and your name , Miss Halcombe . 
He bowed again , stepped back a few paces , and withdrew his conscience from our society as politely as he had introduced it . 
No consideration of less importance than my consideration for Laura would have induced me to consent to be a witness at all . 
One look , however , at her anxious face decided me to risk anything rather than desert her . 
I will readily remain in the room , I said . 
And if I find no reason for starting any small scruples on my side , you may rely on me as a witness . 
Sir Percival looked at me sharply , as if he was about to say something . 
But at the same moment , Madame Fosco attracted his attention by rising from her chair . 
She had caught her husband's eye , and had evidently received her orders to leave the room . 
You needn't go , said Sir Percival . 
Madame Fosco looked for her orders again , got them again , said she would prefer leaving us to our business , and resolutely walked out . 
Meanwhile Sir Percival unlocked a cupboard beneath one of the book cases , and produced from it a piece of parchment , folded longwise , many times over . 
He placed it on the table , opened the last fold only , and kept his hand on the rest . 
The last fold displayed a strip of blank parchment with little wafers stuck on it at certain places . 
Every line of the writing was hidden in the part which he still held folded up under his hand . 
Laura and I looked at each other . 
Her face was pale , but it showed no indecision and no fear . 
Sir Percival dipped a pen in ink , and handed it to his wife . 
Sign your name there , he said , pointing to the place . 
You and Fosco are to sign afterwards , Miss Halcombe , opposite those two wafers . 
Come here , Fosco ! witnessing a signature is not to be done by mooning out of window and smoking into the flowers . 
Laura , who was on the other side of her husband , with the pen in her hand , looked at him too . 
Sign there , he repeated , turning suddenly on Laura , and pointing once more to the place on the parchment . 
What is it I am to sign ? she asked quietly . 
I have no time to explain , he answered . 
The dog cart is at the door , and I must go directly . 
Besides , if I had time , you wouldn't understand . 
It is a purely formal document , full of legal technicalities , and all that sort of thing . 
Come ! come ! sign your name , and let us have done as soon as possible . 
At any rate , let me try to understand it . 
Whenever Mr. Gilmore had any business for me to do , he always explained it first , and I always understood him . 
I dare say he did . 
He was your servant , and was obliged to explain . 
I am your husband , and am NOT obliged . 
How much longer do you mean to keep me here ? I tell you again , there is no time for reading anything the dog cart is waiting at the door . 
Once for all , will you sign or will you not ? She still had the pen in her hand , but she made no approach to signing her name with it . 
Speak out ! he said . 
You were always famous for telling the truth . 
Never mind Miss Halcombe , never mind Fosco say , in plain terms , you distrust me . 
The Count took one of his hands out of his belt and laid it on Sir Percival's shoulder . 
Sir Percival shook it off irritably . 
The Count put it on again with unruffled composure . 
Control your unfortunate temper , Percival , he said Lady Glyde is right . 
Right ! cried Sir Percival . 
A wife right in distrusting her husband ! It is unjust and cruel to accuse me of distrusting you , said Laura . 
Ask Marian if I am not justified in wanting to know what this writing requires of me before I sign it . 
I won't have any appeals made to Miss Halcombe , retorted Sir Percival . 
Miss Halcombe has nothing to do with the matter . 
I had not spoken hitherto , and I would much rather not have spoken now . 
Excuse me , Sir Percival , I said but as one of the witnesses to the signature , I venture to think that I HAVE something to do with the matter . 
A cool declaration , upon my soul ! cried Sir Percival . 
I started to my feet as suddenly as if he had struck me . 
But I was only a woman and I loved his wife so dearly ! Thank God , that faithful love helped me , and I sat down again without saying a word . 
SHE knew what I had suffered and what I had suppressed . 
She ran round to me , with the tears streaming from her eyes . 
Oh , Marian ! she whispered softly . 
If my mother had been alive , she could have done no more for me ! Come back and sign ! cried Sir Percival from the other side of the table . 
Shall I ? she asked in my ear I will , if you tell me . 
The right and the truth are with you sign nothing , unless you have read it first . 
Come back and sign ! he reiterated , in his loudest and angriest tones . 
The Count , who had watched Laura and me with a close and silent attention , interposed for the second time . 
I remember that I am in the presence of ladies . 
Be good enough , if you please , to remember it too . 
Sir Percival turned on him speechless with passion . 
The Count's firm hand slowly tightened its grasp on his shoulder , and the Count's steady voice quietly repeated , Be good enough , if you please , to remember it too . 
They both looked at each other . 
I don't want to offend anybody , he said , but my wife's obstinacy is enough to try the patience of a saint . 
I will sign with pleasure , she said , if you will only treat me as a responsible being . 
I only meant , she resumed , that I would refuse no concession which I could honourably make . 
This unfortunate , yet most natural , reference to the Count's extraordinary power over her husband , indirect as it was , set Sir Percival's smouldering temper on fire again in an instant . 
YOUR scruples ! It is rather late in the day for you to be scrupulous . 
I should have thought you had got over all weakness of that sort , when you made a virtue of necessity by marrying me . 
This strong expression of the most open and the most bitter contempt was so entirely unlike herself , so utterly out of her character , that it silenced us all . 
There was something hidden , beyond a doubt , under the mere surface brutality of the words which her husband had just addressed to her . 
The Count , who was no stranger , saw it as distinctly as I did . 
After what you have just said to me , she replied firmly , I refuse my signature until I have read every line in that parchment from the first word to the last . 
Come away , Marian , we have remained here long enough . 
Don't make an enemy of the Count ! I whispered . 
Whatever you do , don't make an enemy of the Count ! She yielded to me . 
I closed the door again , and we stood near it waiting . 
Sir Percival sat down at the table , with his elbow on the folded parchment , and his head resting on his clenched fist . 
The Count stood between us master of the dreadful position in which we were placed , as he was master of everything else . 
He turned sharply towards Sir Percival . 
But that consideration , as you may have noticed , has no influence with Lady Glyde . 
Answer my plain question plainly . 
Can the business of the signature be put off till to morrow Yes or No ? Yes , if you will have it so . 
Then what are you wasting your time for here ? Let the signature wait till to morrow let it wait till you come back . 
Sir Percival looked up with a frown and an oath . 
You are taking a tone with me that I don't like , he said . 
A tone I won't bear from any man . 
I am advising you for your good , returned the Count , with a smile of quiet contempt . 
Give yourself time give Lady Glyde time . 
How many doses of good advice have I given you in my time ? More than you can count . 
Have I ever been wrong ? I defy you to quote me an instance of it . 
Go ! take your drive . 
The matter of the signature can wait till to morrow . 
Let it wait and renew it when you come back . 
Sir Percival hesitated and looked at his watch . 
He considered for a little while , and then got up from his chair . 
It is easy to argue me down , he said , when I have no time to answer you . 
I will take your advice , Fosco not because I want it , or believe in it , but because I can't stop here any longer . 
He paused , and looked round darkly at his wife . 
He took his hat and gloves off the table , and made for the door . 
Laura and I drew back to let him pass . 
Remember to morrow ! he said to his wife , and went out . 
We waited to give him time to cross the hall and drive away . 
The Count approached us while we were standing near the door . 
You have just seen Percival at his worst , Miss Halcombe , he said . 
As his old friend , I am sorry for him and ashamed of him . 
As his old friend , I promise you that he shall not break out to morrow in the same disgraceful manner in which he has broken out to day . 
Laura had taken my arm while he was speaking and she pressed it significantly when he had done . 
I thanked the Count civilly , and let her out . 
Sir Percival had started on his journey . 
Where is he going to , Marian ? Laura whispered . 
Every fresh thing he does seems to terrify me about the future . 
Have you any suspicions ? After what she had undergone that morning , I was unwilling to tell her my suspicions . 
How should I know his secrets ? I said evasively . 
I wonder if the housekeeper knows ? she persisted . 
Certainly not , I replied . 
She must be quite as ignorant as we are . 
Laura shook her head doubtfully . 
Come into my room , and rest and quiet yourself a little . 
We sat down together close to the window , and let the fragrant summer air breathe over our faces . 
I am ashamed to look at you , Marian , she said , after what you submitted to downstairs , for my sake . 
What is the trifling mortification of my pride compared to the dreadful sacrifice of your happiness ? You heard what he said to me ? she went on quickly and vehemently . 
You heard the words but you don't know what they meant you don't know why I threw down the pen and turned my back on him . 
She rose in sudden agitation , and walked about the room . 
I have kept many things from your knowledge , Marian , for fear of distressing you , and making you unhappy at the outset of our new lives . 
You don't know how he has used me . 
And yet you ought to know , for you saw how he used me to day . 
You heard him sneer at my presuming to be scrupulous you heard him say I had made a virtue of necessity in marrying him . 
She sat down again , her face flushed deeply , and her hands twisted and twined together in her lap . 
I can't tell you about it now , she said I shall burst out crying if I tell you now later , Marian , when I am more sure of myself . 
My poor head aches , darling aches , aches , aches . 
Where is your smelling bottle ? Let me talk to you about yourself . 
I wish I had given him my signature , for your sake . 
Shall I give it to him to morrow ? I would rather compromise myself than compromise you . 
After your taking my part against him , he will lay all the blame on you if I refuse again . 
What shall we do ? Oh , for a friend to help us and advise us ! a friend we could really trust ! She sighed bitterly . 
I saw in her face that she was thinking of Hartright saw it the more plainly because her last words set me thinking of him too . 
In six months only from her marriage we wanted the faithful service he had offered to us in his farewell words . 
How little I once thought that we should ever want it at all ! We must do what we can to help ourselves , I said . 
Let us try to talk it over calmly , Laura let us do all in our power to decide for the best . 
My own convictions led me to believe that the hidden contents of the parchment concealed a transaction of the meanest and the most fraudulent kind . 
I say nothing of the grief which this discovery caused me on Laura's account , for it is not to be expressed by any words of mine . 
After some pondering , I determined to write to the only honest man within reach whom we could trust to help us discreetly in our forlorn situation . 
My letter was as short as I could possibly make it , and was , I hope , unencumbered by needless apologies and needless details . 
Just as I was about to put the address on the envelope an obstacle was discovered by Laura , which in the effort and preoccupation of writing had escaped my mind altogether . 
How are we to get the answer in time ? she asked . 
Your letter will not be delivered in London before to morrow morning , and the post will not bring the reply here till the morning after . 
The only way of overcoming this difficulty was to have the answer brought to us from the lawyer's office by a special messenger . 
He was to be directed to ask for me , to answer no questions addressed to him by any one else , and to deliver his letter into no hands but mine . 
I will wait here for him all the morning , to guard against any misadventures or mistakes . 
By following this arrangement I hope and believe we shall avoid being taken by surprise . 
Let us go down to the drawing room now . 
We may excite suspicion if we remain shut up together too long . 
Whose suspicion can we excite , now that Sir Percival has left the house ? Do you mean Count Fosco ? Perhaps I do , Laura . 
You are beginning to dislike him as much as I do , Marian . 
No , not to dislike him . 
Dislike is always more or less associated with contempt I can see nothing in the Count to despise . 
You are not afraid of him , are you ? Perhaps I am a little . 
Afraid of him , after his interference in our favour to day ! Yes . 
I am more afraid of his interference than I am of Sir Percival's violence . 
Remember what I said to you in the library . 
Whatever you do , Laura , don't make an enemy of the Count ! We went downstairs . 
The Countess came into the hall rather hastily , and asked if I had leisure enough for five minutes' private conversation . 
Feeling a little surprised by such an appeal from such a person , I put my letter into the bag , and replied that I was quite at her disposal . 
The Countess walked me gently round the fish pond . 
Her husband had told her of all that had passed , and of the insolent manner in which Sir Percival had spoken to me . 
The Count had approved of her idea , and she now hoped that I approved of it too . 
However , it was my plain duty to meet a polite and friendly advance on the part of one of my elders with a polite and friendly reply . 
But Madame Fosco seemed resolved not to part with me , and to my unspeakable amazement , resolved also to talk . 
As I pushed open the door and entered the hall , I found myself suddenly face to face with the Count again . 
He was just putting a letter into the post bag . 
After he had dropped it in and had closed the bag , he asked me where I had left Madame Fosco . 
I told him , and he went out at the hall door immediately to join his wife . 
His manner when he spoke to me was so unusually quiet and subdued that I turned and looked after him , wondering if he were ill or out of spirits . 
Whatever influence animated me , I found cause to congratulate myself on having obeyed it as soon as I prepared to seal the letter in my own room . 
I would rather not see it confronting me in plain black and white . 
I almost dread to morrow so much depends on my discretion and self control . 
There are two precautions , at all events , which I am sure not to forget . 
When the dinner hour brought us together again , Count Fosco was in his usual excellent spirits . 
He exerted himself to interest and amuse us , as if he was determined to efface from our memories all recollection of what had passed in the library that afternoon . 
After dinner , while the favourable impression which he had produced on us was still vivid in our minds , the Count modestly withdrew to read in the library . 
Laura proposed a stroll in the grounds to enjoy the close of the long evening . 
It was necessary in common politeness to ask Madame Fosco to join us , but this time she had apparently received her orders beforehand , and she begged we would kindly excuse her . 
The Count will probably want a fresh supply of cigarettes , she remarked by way of apology , and nobody can make them to his satisfaction but myself . 
It was a misty , heavy evening . 
There was a sense of blight in the air the flowers were drooping in the garden , and the ground was parched and dewless . 
The western heaven , as we saw it over the quiet trees , was of a pale yellow hue , and the sun was setting faintly in a haze . 
Coming rain seemed near it would fall probably with the fall of night . 
Which way shall we go ? I asked Towards the lake , Marian , if you like , she answered . 
You seem unaccountably fond , Laura , of that dismal lake . 
No , not of the lake but of the scenery about it . 
The sand and heath and the fir trees are the only objects I can discover , in all this large place , to remind me of Limmeridge . 
But we will walk in some other direction if you prefer it . 
I have no favourite walks at Blackwater Park , my love . 
One is the same as another to me . 
Let us go to the lake we may find it cooler in the open space than we find it here . 
We walked through the shadowy plantation in silence . 
The heaviness in the evening air oppressed us both , and when we reached the boat house we were glad to sit down and rest inside . 
A white fog hung low over the lake . 
The dense brown line of the trees on the opposite bank appeared above it , like a dwarf forest floating in the sky . 
The sandy ground , shelving downward from where we sat , was lost mysteriously in the outward layers of the fog . 
No rustling of the leaves no bird's note in the wood no cry of water fowl from the pools of the hidden lake . 
Even the croaking of the frogs had ceased to night . 
It is very desolate and gloomy , said Laura . 
But we can be more alone here than anywhere else . 
She spoke quietly and looked at the wilderness of sand and mist with steady , thoughtful eyes . 
I could see that her mind was too much occupied to feel the dreary impressions from without which had fastened themselves already on mine . 
I promised , Marian , to tell you the truth about my married life , instead of leaving you any longer to guess it for yourself , she began . 
That secret is the first I have ever had from you , love , and I am determined it shall be the last . 
I was silent , as you know , for your sake and perhaps a little for my own sake as well . 
It is very hard for a woman to confess that the man to whom she has given her whole life is the man of all others who cares least for the gift . 
If you were married yourself , Marian and especially if you were happily married you would feel for me as no single woman CAN feel , however kind and true she may be . 
What answer could I make ? I could only take her hand and look at her with my whole heart as well as my eyes would let me . 
Thank God for your poverty it has made you your own mistress , and has saved you from the lot that has fallen on ME . 
A sad beginning on the lips of a young wife ! sad in its quiet plain spoken truth . 
The few days we had all passed together at Blackwater Park had been many enough to show me to show any one what her husband had married her for . 
You shall not be distressed , she said , by hearing how soon my disappointments and my trials began or even by knowing what they were . 
It is bad enough to have them on my memory . 
It was one day at Rome when we had ridden out together to the tomb of Cecilia Metella . 
'Would you build such a tomb for ME , Percival ? I asked him . 
'You said you loved me dearly before we were married , and yet , since that time I could get no farther . 
Marian ! he was not even looking at me ! I pulled down my veil , thinking it best not to let him see that the tears were in my eyes . 
I fancied he had not paid any attention to me , but he had . 
He said , 'Come away , and laughed to himself as he helped me on to my horse . 
He mounted his own horse and laughed again as we rode away . 
'If I do build you a tomb , he said , 'it will be done with your own money . 
I wonder whether Cecilia Metella had a fortune and paid for hers . 
I made no reply how could I , when I was crying behind my veil ? Ah , you light complexioned women are all sulky , he said . 
'What do you want ? compliments and soft speeches ? Well ! I'm in a good humour this morning . 
Consider the compliments paid and the speeches said . 
Men little know when they say hard things to us how well we remember them , and how much harm they do us . 
It would have been better for me if I had gone on crying , but his contempt dried up my tears and hardened my heart . 
From that time , Marian , I never checked myself again in thinking of Walter Hartright . 
I let the memory of those happy days , when we were so fond of each other in secret , come back and comfort me . 
What else had I to look to for consolation ? If we had been together you would have helped me to better things . 
I know it was wrong , darling , but tell me if I was wrong without any excuse . 
I was obliged to turn my face from her . 
Don't ask me ! I said . 
I used to fancy what I might have been if it had pleased God to bless me with poverty , and if I had been his wife . 
Her eyes rested as lovingly on the blighted , solitary , ill omened view before us , as if they saw the friendly hills of Cumberland in the dim and threatening sky . 
Don't speak of Walter any more , I said , as soon as I could control myself . 
Oh , Laura , spare us both the wretchedness of talking of him now ! She roused herself , and looked at me tenderly . 
I would rather be silent about him for ever , she answered , than cause you a moment's pain . 
It is in your interests , I pleaded it is for your sake that I speak . 
If your husband heard you It would not surprise him if he did hear me . 
She made that strange reply with a weary calmness and coldness . 
The change in her manner , when she gave the answer , startled me almost as much as the answer itself . 
Not surprise him ! I repeated . 
My only secret when I opened my heart to him at Limmeridge was a harmless secret , Marian you said so yourself . 
The name was all I kept from him , and he has discovered it . 
I heard her , but I could say nothing . 
Her last words had killed the little hope that still lived in me . 
It happened at Rome , she went on , as wearily calm and cold as ever . 
We were at a little party given to the English by some friends of Sir Percival's Mr. and Mrs. Markland . 
Mrs. Markland had the reputation of sketching very beautifully , and some of the guests prevailed on her to show us her drawings . 
We all admired them , but something I said attracted her attention particularly to me . 
'Surely you draw yourself ? she asked . 
'I used to draw a little once , I answered , 'but I have given it up . 
I said nothing you know why , Marian and tried to change the conversation . 
'I have had all sorts of teachers , she went on , 'but the best of all , the most intelligent and the most attentive , was a Mr. Hartright . 
If you ever take up your drawing again , do try him as a master . 
He is a young man modest and gentlemanlike I am sure you will like him . 
When I ventured to raise my head again , my eyes and my husband's eyes met , and I knew , by his look , that my face had betrayed me . 
'We will see about Mr. Hartright , he said , looking at me all the time , 'when we get back to England . 
I agree with you , Mrs. Markland I think Lady Glyde is sure to like him . 
He laid an emphasis on the last words which made my cheeks burn , and set my heart beating as if it would stifle me . 
He was silent in the carriage driving back to the hotel . 
He helped me out , and followed me upstairs as usual . 
But the moment we were in the drawing room , he locked the door , pushed me down into a chair , and stood over me with his hands on my shoulders . 
Your drawing master was the man , and his name is Hartright . 
You shall repent it , and he shall repent it , to the last hour of your lives . 
Now go to bed and dream of him if you like , with the marks of my horsewhip on his shoulders . 
Whenever he is angry with me now he refers to what I acknowledged to him in your presence with a sneer or a threat . 
I have no power to prevent him from putting his own horrible construction on the confidence I placed in him . 
I have no influence to make him believe me , or to keep him silent . 
You looked surprised to day when you heard him tell me that I had made a virtue of necessity in marrying him . 
The white despair of Walter's face , when my cruel words struck him to the heart in the summer house at Limmeridge , rose before me in mute , unendurable reproach . 
My hand had pointed the way which led the man my sister loved , step by step , far from his country and his friends . 
I had done this , and done it for Sir Percival Glyde . 
It is late , I heard her whisper . 
It will be dark in the plantation . 
She shook my arm and repeated , Marian ! it will be dark in the plantation . 
Give me a minute longer , I said a minute , to get better in . 
I was afraid to trust myself to look at her yet , and I kept my eyes fixed on the view . 
The dense brown line of trees in the sky had faded in the gathering darkness to the faint resemblance of a long wreath of smoke . 
The mist over the lake below had stealthily enlarged , and advanced on us . 
The silence was as breathless as ever , but the horror of it had gone , and the solemn mystery of its stillness was all that remained . 
We are far from the house , she whispered . 
She stopped suddenly , and turned her face from me towards the entrance of the boat house . 
Marian ! she said , trembling violently . 
Do you see nothing ? Look ! Where ? Down there , below us . 
My eyes followed her hand , and I saw it too . 
A living figure was moving over the waste of heath in the distance . 
It crossed our range of view from the boat house , and passed darkly along the outer edge of the mist . 
We were both unnerved by what had passed between us that evening . 
Some minutes elapsed before Laura would venture into the plantation , and before I could make up my mind to lead her back to the house . 
Was it a man or a woman ? she asked in a whisper , as we moved at last into the dark dampness of the outer air . 
Which do you think ? It looked like a woman . 
I was afraid it was a man in a long cloak . 
It may be a man . 
In this dim light it is not possible to be certain . 
Wait , Marian ! I'm frightened I don't see the path . 
Suppose the figure should follow us ? Not at all likely , Laura . 
There is really nothing to be alarmed about . 
The shores of the lake are not far from the village , and they are free to any one to walk on by day or night . 
It is only wonderful we have seen no living creature there before . 
We were now in the plantation . 
It was very dark so dark , that we found some difficulty in keeping the path . 
I gave Laura my arm , and we walked as fast as we could on our way back . 
Before we were half way through she stopped , and forced me to stop with her . 
I hear something behind us . 
Dead leaves , I said to cheer her , or a twig blown off the trees . 
It is summer time , Marian , and there is not a breath of wind . 
Listen ! I heard the sound too a sound like a light footstep following us . 
No matter who it is , or what it is , I said , let us walk on . 
In another minute , if there is anything to alarm us , we shall be near enough to the house to be heard . 
We went on quickly so quickly , that Laura was breathless by the time we were nearly through the plantation , and within sight of the lighted windows . 
I waited a moment to give her breathing time . 
Just as we were about to proceed she stopped me again , and signed to me with her hand to listen once more . 
We both heard distinctly a long , heavy sigh behind us , in the black depths of the trees . 
Who's there ? I called out . 
Who's there ? I repeated . 
We hurried out from the trees to the open lawn beyond crossed it rapidly , and without another word passing between us , reached the house . 
In the light of the hall lamp Laura looked at me , with white cheeks and startled eyes . 
I am half dead with fear , she said . 
Who could it have been ? We will try to guess to morrow , I replied . 
In the meantime say nothing to any one of what we have heard and seen . 
Why not ? Because silence is safe , and we have need of safety in this house . 
And there sat Madame Fosco , like a quiet child , on a stool by his side , making cigarettes . 
Neither husband nor wife could , by any possibility , have been out late that evening , and have just got back to the house in a hurry . 
I felt that my object in visiting the library was answered the moment I set eyes on them . 
Count Fosco rose in polite confusion and tied his cravat on when I entered the room . 
Pray don't let me disturb you , I said . 
I have only come here to get a book . 
All unfortunate men of my size suffer from the heat , said the Count , refreshing himself gravely with a large green fan . 
I wish I could change places with my excellent wife . 
She is as cool at this moment as a fish in the pond outside . 
The Countess allowed herself to thaw under the influence of her husband's quaint comparison . 
I am never warm , Miss Halcombe , she remarked , with the modest air of a woman who was confessing to one of her own merits . 
Have you and Lady Glyde been out this evening ? asked the Count , while I was taking a book from the shelves to preserve appearances . 
Yes , we went out to get a little air . 
May I ask in what direction ? In the direction of the lake as far as the boat house . 
Aha ? As far as the boat house ? Under other circumstances I might have resented his curiosity . 
But to night I hailed it as another proof that neither he nor his wife were connected with the mysterious appearance at the lake . 
No more adventures , I suppose , this evening ? he went on . 
An unutterable suspicion that his mind is prying into mine overcomes me at these times , and it overcame me now . 
No , I said shortly no adventures no discoveries . 
I tried to look away from him and leave the room . 
Strange as it seems , I hardly think I should have succeeded in the attempt if Madame Fosco had not helped me by causing him to move and look away first . 
Count , you are keeping Miss Halcombe standing , she said . 
The moment he turned round to get me a chair , I seized my opportunity thanked him made my excuses and slipped out . 
Have you been suffering much from the heat downstairs ? I asked . 
No , miss , said the girl , we have not felt it to speak of . 
You have been out in the woods then , I suppose ? Some of us thought of going , miss . 
The housekeeper was now the only person who remained to be accounted for . 
Is Mrs. Michelson gone to bed yet ? I inquired . 
I should think not , miss , said the girl , smiling . 
Mrs. Michelson is more likely to be getting up just now than going to bed . 
Why ? What do you mean ? Has Mrs. Michelson been taking to her bed in the daytime ? No , miss , not exactly , but the next thing to it . 
She's been asleep all the evening on the sofa in her own room . 
Putting together what I observed for myself in the library , and what I have just heard from Laura's maid , one conclusion seems inevitable . 
The figure we saw at the lake was not the figure of Madame Fosco , of her husband , or of any of the servants . 
The footsteps we heard behind us were not the footsteps of any one belonging to the house . 
Who could it have been ? It seems useless to inquire . 
I cannot even decide whether the figure was a man's or a woman's . 
I can only say that I think it was a woman's , VI June th . 
The result soothed me a little for it showed that , however blindly and ignorantly I acted , I acted for the best . 
Crying generally does me harm but it was not so last night I think it relieved me . 
I rose this morning with a settled resolution and a quiet mind . 
She has lost the little brooch I gave her for a keepsake on the day before her marriage . 
As she wore it when we went out yesterday evening we can only suppose that it must have dropped from her dress , either in the boat house or on our way back . 
The servants have been sent to search , and have returned unsuccessful . 
And now Laura herself has gone to look for it . 
Whether she finds it or not the loss will help to excuse her absence from the house . 
if Sir Percival returns before the letter from Mr. Gilmore's partner is placed in my hands . 
One o'clock has just struck . 
I am considering whether I had better wait here for the arrival of the messenger from London , or slip away quietly , and watch for him outside the lodge gate . 
My suspicion of everybody and everything in this house inclines me to think that the second plan may be the best . 
The Count is safe in the breakfast room . 
My room door is open , and I can hear the shrill singing and whistling at this very moment . 
If I am really to slip out without being observed , now is my time . 
The three hours that have passed since I made my last entry have turned the whole march of events at Blackwater Park in a new direction . 
Whether for good or for evil , I cannot and dare not decide . 
Let me get back first to the place at which I left off , or I shall lose myself in the confusion of my own thoughts . 
I went out , as I had proposed , to meet the messenger with my letter from London at the lodge gate . 
On the stairs I saw no one . 
In the hall I heard the Count still exercising his birds . 
But on crossing the quadrangle outside , I passed Madame Fosco , walking by herself in her favourite circle , round and round the great fish pond . 
She smiled at me in the friendliest manner said she preferred remaining near the house , nodded pleasantly , and re entered the hall . 
I looked back , and saw that she had closed the door before I had opened the wicket by the side of the carriage gates . 
In less than a quarter of an hour I reached the lodge . 
Between these two turns , hidden from the lodge on one side , and from the way to the station on the other , I waited , walking backwards and forwards . 
High hedges were on either side of me , and for twenty minutes , by my watch , I neither saw nor heard anything . 
I made a sign to the driver to stop . 
As he obeyed me a respectable looking man put his head out of the window to see what was the matter . 
I beg your pardon , I said , but am I right in supposing that you are going to Blackwater Park ? Yes , ma'am . 
With a letter for any one ? With a letter for Miss Halcombe , ma'am . 
You may give me the letter . 
The man touched his hat , got out of the fly immediately , and gave me the letter . 
I opened it at once and read these lines . 
I copy them here , thinking it best to destroy the original for caution's sake . 
DEAR MADAM , Your letter received this morning has caused me very great anxiety . 
I will reply to it as briefly and plainly as possible . 
It is impossible , on any other supposition , to account , situated as she is , for her execution to a deed of any kind being wanted at all . 
In plainer terms still , the transaction , for anything that Lady Glyde knows to the contrary , may be a fraud upon her unborn children . 
No reasonable objection can be made to taking this course for , if the transaction is an honourable one , there will necessarily be no difficulty in my giving my approval . 
Sincerely assuring you of my readiness to afford any additional help or advice that may be wanted , I beg to remain , Madam , your faithful servant , WILLIAM KYRLE . 
I read this kind and sensible letter very thankfully . 
It supplied Laura with a reason for objecting to the signature which was unanswerable , and which we could both of us understand . 
There is no other reply necessary at present . 
The suddenness of his appearance , in the very last place under heaven in which I should have expected to see him , took me completely by surprise . 
The messenger wished me good morning , and got into the fly again . 
I could not say a word to him I was not even able to return his bow . 
The conviction that I was discovered and by that man , of all others absolutely petrified me . 
I collected myself sufficiently to make a sign in the affirmative . 
I am going back too , he said . 
Pray allow me the pleasure of accompanying you . 
Will you take my arm ? You look surprised at seeing me ! I took his arm . 
The first of my scattered senses that came back was the sense that warned me to sacrifice anything rather than make an enemy of him . 
You look surprised at seeing me ! he repeated in his quietly pertinacious way . 
I thought , Count , I heard you with your birds in the breakfast room , I answered , as quietly and firmly as I could . 
But my little feathered children , dear lady , are only too like other children . 
They have their days of perversity , and this morning was one of them . 
My wife came in as I was putting them back in their cage , and said she had left you going out alone for a walk . 
You told her so , did you not ? Certainly . 
Well , Miss Halcombe , the pleasure of accompanying you was too great a temptation for me to resist . 
At my age there is no harm in confessing so much as that , is there ? I seized my hat , and set off to offer myself as your escort . 
at the height of my wishes . 
He talked on in this complimentary strain with a fluency which left me no exertion to make beyond the effort of maintaining my composure . 
He never referred in the most distant manner to what he had seen in the lane , or to the letter which I still had in my hand . 
On the drive in front of the house we met the dog cart being taken round to the stables . 
Sir Percival had just returned . 
He came out to meet us at the house door . 
Whatever other results his journey might have had , it had not ended in softening his savage temper . 
Oh ! here are two of you come back , he said , with a lowering face . 
Brooch or no brooch , he growled sulkily , I recommend her not to forget her appointment in the library this afternoon . 
I shall expect to see her in half an hour . 
I took my hand from the Count's arm , and slowly ascended the steps . 
He honoured me with one of his magnificent bows , and then addressed himself gaily to the scowling master of the house . 
And I want five minutes' talk with you , Percival , first , returned the Count . 
Five minutes' talk , my friend , here on the grass . 
What about ? About business that very much concerns you . 
I lingered long enough in passing through the hall door to hear this question and answer , and to see Sir Percival thrust his hands into his pockets in sullen hesitation . 
If you want to badger me with any more of your infernal scruples , he said , I for one won't hear them . 
Come out here and speak to me , repeated the Count , still perfectly uninfluenced by the rudest speech that his friend could make to him . 
Sir Percival descended the steps . 
The Count took him by the arm , and walked him away gently . 
The business , I was sure , referred to the question of the signature . 
They were speaking of Laura and of me beyond a doubt . 
I felt heart sick and faint with anxiety . 
, till the oppression of my suspense half maddened me . 
There were no signs of Laura's return , and I thought of going out to look for her . 
I was just composing myself when the door opened softly and the Count looked in . 
A thousand pardons , Miss Halcombe , he said I only venture to disturb you because I am the bearer of good news . 
A great relief to all of us , Miss Halcombe , as I see with pleasure in your face . 
Pray present my best respects and felicitations , when you mention this pleasant change of circumstances to Lady Glyde . 
He left me before I had recovered my astonishment . 
I tried a second time to run out and find Laura , but my head was giddy and my knees trembled under me . 
There was no choice but to give it up again and return to the sofa , sorely against my will . 
The quiet in the house , and the low murmuring hum of summer insects outside the open window , soothed me . 
He appeared to me as one among many other men , none of whose faces I could plainly discern . 
They were all lying on the steps of an immense ruined temple . 
An agony of pity and fear for Walter loosened my tongue , and I implored him to escape . 
Come back , come back ! I said . 
Remember your promise to HER and to ME . 
Come back to us before the Pestilence reaches you and lays you dead like the rest ! He looked at me with an unearthly quiet in his face . 
Wait , he said , I shall come back . 
The night when I met the lost Woman on the highway was the night which set my life apart to be the instrument of a Design that is yet unseen . 
The Pestilence which touches the rest will pass ME . 
He was still in the forest , and the numbers of his lost companions had dwindled to very few . 
Once more I feared for Walter , and cried out to warn him . 
Once more he turned to me , with the immovable quiet in his face . 
Another step , he said , on the dark road . 
The arrows that strike the rest will spare me . 
I saw him for the third time in a wrecked ship , stranded on a wild , sandy shore . 
The overloaded boats were making away from him for the land , and he alone was left to sink with the ship . 
I cried to him to hail the hindmost boat , and to make a last effort for his life . 
The quiet face looked at me in return , and the unmoved voice gave me back the changeless reply . 
Another step on the journey . 
The Sea which drowns the rest will spare me . 
I saw him for the last time . 
He was kneeling by a tomb of white marble , and the shadow of a veiled woman rose out of the grave beneath and waited by his side . 
The unearthly quiet of his face had changed to an unearthly sorrow . 
But the terrible certainty of his words remained the same . 
Darker and darker , he said farther and farther yet . 
Death takes the good , the beautiful , and the young and spares me . 
My heart sank under a dread beyond words , under a grief beyond tears . 
The darkness closed round the pilgrim at the marble tomb closed round the veiled woman from the grave closed round the dreamer who looked on them . 
I saw and heard no more . 
I was aroused by a hand laid on my shoulder . 
She had dropped on her knees by the side of the sofa . 
Her face was flushed and agitated , and her eyes met mine in a wild bewildered manner . 
I started the instant I saw her . 
What has happened ? I asked . 
I could only stand rooted to the floor , looking at her in breathless silence . 
She was too much absorbed by what had happened to notice the effect which her reply had produced on me . 
I have seen Anne Catherick ! I have spoken to Anne Catherick ! she repeated as if I had not heard her . 
Oh , Marian , I have such things to tell you ! Come away we may be interrupted here come at once into my room . 
No third person , except her maid , could have any excuse for surprising us here . 
She pushed me in before her , locked the door , and drew the chintz curtains that hung over the inside . 
The strange , stunned feeling which had taken possession of me still remained . 
I could not express it in words I could hardly even realise it dimly in my own thoughts . 
Anne Catherick ! I whispered to myself , with useless , helpless reiteration Anne Catherick ! Laura drew me to the nearest seat , an ottoman in the middle of the room . 
Look ! she said , look here ! and pointed to the bosom of her dress . 
I saw , for the first time , that the lost brooch was pinned in its place again . 
Where did you find your brooch ? The first words I could say to her were the words which put that trivial question at that important moment . 
SHE found it , Marian . 
Where ? On the floor of the boat house . 
Speak low , I said . 
The window is open , and the garden path runs beneath it . 
Begin at the beginning , Laura . 
Tell me , word for word , what passed between that woman and you . 
Shall I close the window ? No , only speak low only remember that Anne Catherick is a dangerous subject under your husband's roof . 
Where did you first see her ? At the boat house , Marian . 
I went out , as you know , to find my brooch , and I walked along the path through the plantation , looking down on the ground carefully at every step . 
I was still searching with my back to the doorway , when I heard a soft , strange voice behind me say , 'Miss Fairlie . 
Miss Fairlie ! Yes , my old name the dear , familiar name that I thought I had parted from for ever . 
I started up not frightened , the voice was too kind and gentle to frighten anybody but very much surprised . 
Her bonnet was of brown straw , as poor and worn as the shawl . 
I was struck by the difference between her gown and the rest of her dress , and she saw that I noticed it . 
'Don't look at my bonnet and shawl , she said , speaking in a quick , breathless , sudden way 'if I mustn't wear white , I don't care what I wear . 
Look at my gown as much as you please I'm not ashamed of that . 
Very strange , was it not ? Before I could say anything to soothe her , she held out one of her hands , and I saw my brooch in it . 
I was so pleased and so grateful , that I went quite close to her to say what I really felt . 
'Are you thankful enough to do me one little kindness ? she asked . 
'Yes , indeed , I answered , 'any kindness in my power I shall be glad to show you . 
'Then let me pin your brooch on for you , now I have found it . 
Her request was so unexpected , Marian , and she made it with such extraordinary eagerness , that I drew back a step or two , not well knowing what to do . 
'Ah ! she said , 'your mother would have let me pin on the brooch . 
There was something in her voice and her look , as well as in her mentioning my mother in that reproachful manner , which made me ashamed of my distrust . 
I took her hand with the brooch in it , and put it up gently on the bosom of my dress . 
'You knew my mother ? I said . 
'Was it very long ago ? have I ever seen you before ? Her hands were busy fastening the brooch she stopped and pressed them against my breast . 
You were one of the little girls , and I was the other . 
What reminded you of that , Laura ? SHE reminded me . 
The discovery I don't know why gave me such a shock , that I was perfectly incapable of speaking to her for the moment . 
Did she seem hurt by your silence ? I am afraid she was hurt by it . 
'You have not got your mother's face , she said , 'or your mother's heart . 
Your mother's face was dark , and your mother's heart , Miss Fairlie , was the heart of an angel . 
'I am sure I feel kindly towards you , I said , 'though I may not be able to express it as I ought . 
Why do you call me Miss Fairlie ? 'Because I love the name of Fairlie and hate the name of Glyde , she broke out violently . 
I had seen nothing like madness in her before this , but I fancied I saw it now in her eyes . 
'I only thought you might not know I was married , I said , remembering the wild letter she wrote to me at Limmeridge , and trying to quiet her . 
She sighed bitterly , and turned away from me . 
'Not know you were married ? she repeated . 
'I am here BECAUSE you are married . 
I am here to make atonement to you , before I meet your mother in the world beyond the grave . 
She drew farther and farther away from me , till she was out of the boat house , and then she watched and listened for a little while . 
When she turned round to speak again , instead of coming back , she stopped where she was , looking in at me , with a hand on each side of the entrance . 
'Did you see me at the lake last night ? she said . 
Her words alarmed me , Marian , and yet there was something in the way she spoke that made me pity her with all my heart . 
'I was here yesterday , she said , 'before it came dark , and I heard you , and the lady with you , talking together . 
I heard you tell her about your husband . 
I heard you say you had no influence to make him believe you , and no influence to keep him silent . 
Ah ! I knew what those words meant my conscience told me while I was listening . 
I began to be afraid she might break out into some terrible despair which neither she nor I could master . 
'Try to quiet yourself , I said 'try to tell me how you might have prevented my marriage . 
She took the shawl from her face , and looked at me vacantly . 
'I ought to have had heart enough to stop at Limmeridge , she answered . 
'I ought never to have let the news of his coming there frighten me away . 
I ought to have warned you and saved you before it was too late . 
It was dreadful to see her , and dreadful to hear her . 
Surely , Laura , you asked what the fear was which she dwelt on so earnestly ? Yes , I asked that . 
She suddenly bent forward into the boat house , and said , 'Can't you guess why ? I shook my head . 
'Look at me , she went on . 
I told her I was grieved to see that she looked very sorrowful and very ill . 
She smiled for the first time . 
'Ill ? she repeated 'I'm dying . 
You know why I'm not afraid of him now . 
Do you think I shall meet your mother in heaven ? Will she forgive me if I do ? I was so shocked and so startled , that I could make no reply . 
'I have been thinking of it , she went on , 'all the time I have been in hiding from your husband , all the time I lay ill . 
My thoughts have driven me here I want to make atonement I want to undo all I can of the harm I once did . 
I begged her as earnestly as I could to tell me what she meant . 
She still looked at me with fixed vacant eyes . 
'SHALL I undo the harm ? she said to herself doubtfully . 
'You have friends to take your part . 
If YOU know his Secret , he will be afraid of you , he won't dare use you as he used me . 
He must treat you mercifully for his own sake , if he is afraid of you and your friends . 
And if he treats you mercifully , and if I can say it was my doing I listened eagerly for more , but she stopped at those words . 
'But there is no hope of that , she said , moving a little , so as to look at me again , 'no hope for a poor stranger like me . 
I shall not rest under the marble cross that I washed with my own hands , and made so white and pure for her sake . 
Oh no ! oh no ! God's mercy , not man's , will take me to her , where the wicked cease from troubling and the weary are at rest . 
She spoke those words quietly and sorrowfully , with a heavy , hopeless sigh , and then waited a little . 
Her face was confused and troubled , she seemed to be thinking , or trying to think . 
'What was it I said just now ? she asked after a while . 
'When your mother is in my mind , everything else goes out of it . 
What was I saying ? what was I saying ? I reminded the poor creature , as kindly and delicately as I could . 
'Ah , yes , yes , she said , still in a vacant , perplexed manner . 
'You are helpless with your wicked husband . 
And I must do what I have come to do here I must make it up to you for having been afraid to speak out at a better time . 
'What IS it you have to tell me ? I asked . 
'The Secret that your cruel husband is afraid of , she answered . 
'I once threatened him with the Secret , and frightened him . 
You shall threaten him with the Secret , and frighten him too . 
Her face darkened , and a hard , angry stare fixed itself in her eyes . 
She began waving her hand at me in a vacant , unmeaning manner . 
'My mother knows the Secret , she said . 
'My mother has wasted under the Secret half her lifetime . 
One day , when I was grown up , she said something to ME . 
And the next day your husband Yes ! yes ! Go on . 
What did she tell you about your husband ? She stopped again , Marian , at that point And said no more ? And listened eagerly . 
'Hush ! she whispered , still waving her hand at me . 
'Hush ! She moved aside out of the doorway , moved slowly and stealthily , step by step , till I lost her past the edge of the boat house . 
Surely you followed her ? Yes , my anxiety made me bold enough to rise and follow her . 
Just as I reached the entrance , she appeared again suddenly , round the side of the boat house . 
'The Secret , I whispered to her 'wait and tell me the Secret ! She caught hold of my arm , and looked at me with wild frightened eyes . 
'Not now , she said , 'we are not alone we are watched . 
Come here to morrow at this time by yourself mind by yourself . 
She pushed me roughly into the boat house again , and I saw her no more . 
Oh , Laura , Laura , another chance lost ! If I had only been near you she should not have escaped us . 
On which side did you lose sight of her ? On the left side , where the ground sinks and the wood is thickest . 
Did you run out again ? did you call after her ? How could I ? I was too terrified to move or speak . 
But when you DID move when you came out ? I ran back here , to tell you what had happened . 
Did you see any one , or hear any one , in the plantation ? No , it seemed to be all still and quiet when I passed through it . 
I waited for a moment to consider . 
Was this third person , supposed to have been secretly present at the interview , a reality , or the creature of Anne Catherick's excited fancy ? It was impossible to determine . 
Are you quite sure you have told me everything that passed ? Every word that was said ? I inquired . 
I think so , she answered . 
My powers of memory , Marian , are not like yours . 
But I was so strongly impressed , so deeply interested , that nothing of any importance can possibly have escaped me . 
My dear Laura , the merest trifles are of importance where Anne Catherick is concerned . 
Did no chance reference escape her as to the place in which she is living at the present time ? None that I can remember . 
Did she not mention a companion and friend a woman named Mrs. Clements ? Oh yes ! yes ! I forgot that . 
She told me Mrs. Clements wanted sadly to go with her to the lake and take care of her , and begged and prayed that she would not venture into this neighbourhood alone . 
Was that all she said about Mrs. Clements ? Yes , that was all . 
She told you nothing about the place in which she took refuge after leaving Todd's Corner ? Nothing I am quite sure . 
Nor where she has lived since ? Nor what her illness had been ? No , Marian , not a word . 
Tell me , pray tell me , what you think about it . 
I don't know what to think , or what to do next . 
You must do this , my love You must carefully keep the appointment at the boat house to morrow . 
It is impossible to say what interests may not depend on your seeing that woman again . 
You shall not be left to yourself a second time . 
I will follow you at a safe distance . 
Nobody shall see me , but I will keep within hearing of your voice , if anything happens . 
Anne Catherick has escaped Walter Hartright , and has escaped you . 
Whatever happens , she shall not escape ME . 
Laura's eyes read mine attentively . 
Would you trust her in other things ? I trust nothing , Laura , but my own observation of your husband's conduct . 
I judge Anne Catherick's words by his actions , and I believe there is a secret . 
The influence of the terrible dream from which she had awakened me hung darkly and heavily over every fresh impression which the progress of her narrative produced on my mind . 
Leaving Laura to go upstairs alone , I went out to look about me in the walks near the house . 
After looking for them in every direction and discovering nothing , I returned to the house , and entered the different rooms on the ground floor one after another . 
I came out again into the hall , and went upstairs to return to Laura . 
Yes , she had seen them both from her window more than an hour since . 
For a long walk ! They had never yet been in each other's company with that object in my experience of them . 
cared for no exercise at all . 
Her first words when I saw her expressed her surprise at the absence of the expected summons to attend Sir Percival in the library . 
You may make your mind easy on that subject , I said . 
For the present , at least , neither your resolution nor mine will be exposed to any further trial . 
Sir Percival has altered his plans the business of the signature is put off . 
Put off ? Laura repeated amazedly . 
Who told you so ? My authority is Count Fosco . 
I believe it is to his interference that we are indebted for your husband's sudden change of purpose . 
It seems impossible , Marian . 
Have you forgotten the conversation that I heard between Sir Percival and the lawyer as they were crossing the hall ? No , but I don't remember I do . 
There were two alternatives proposed . 
One was to obtain your signature to the parchment . 
The other was to gain time by giving bills at three months . 
The last resource is evidently the resource now adopted , and we may fairly hope to be relieved from our share in Sir Percival's embarrassments for some time to come . 
I will get my journal , and you shall see if I am right or wrong . 
I went away and got the book at once . 
On looking back to the entry referring to the lawyer's visit , we found that my recollection of the two alternatives presented was accurately correct . 
It was almost as great a relief to my mind as to Laura's , to find that my memory had served me , on this occasion , as faithfully as usual . 
Laura's face and manner suggested to me that this last consideration had occurred to her as well as to myself . 
Just as it had done ringing , Sir Percival and the Count returned from their walk . 
The evening has come and gone . 
No extraordinary event has happened . 
That long walk with his friend had ended in improving his manners , especially towards his wife . 
To Laura's secret surprise and to my secret alarm , he called her by her Christian name , asked if she had heard lately from her uncle . 
inquired when Mrs. Vesey was to receive her invitation to Blackwater , and showed her so many other little attentions that he almost recalled the days of his hateful courtship at Limmeridge House . 
If I knew where Anne Catherick was to be found , I would be up to morrow with sunrise and warn her . 
For instance , he was quiet and subdued his eyes and his voice expressed a restrained sensibility . 
the most magnificent waistcoat he has yet appeared in it was made of pale sea green silk , and delicately trimmed with fine silver braid . 
His voice sank into the tenderest inflections , his smile expressed a thoughtful , fatherly admiration , whenever he spoke to Laura or to me . 
He pressed his wife's hand under the table when she thanked him for trifling little attentions at dinner . 
He took wine with her . 
Your health and happiness , my angel ! he said , with fond glistening eyes . 
He ate little or nothing , and sighed , and said Good Percival ! when his friend laughed at him . 
After dinner , he took Laura by the hand , and asked her if she would be so sweet as to play to him . 
She complied , through sheer astonishment . 
He sat by the piano , with his watch chain resting in folds , like a golden serpent , on the sea green protuberance of his waistcoat . 
His immense head lay languidly on one side , and he gently beat time with two of his yellow white fingers . 
As the evening closed in , he begged that the lovely dying light might not be profaned , just yet , by the appearance of the lamps . 
If any one of them could only have burnt him up at that moment , I would have gone down to the kitchen and fetched it myself . 
Surely you like this modest , trembling English twilight ? he said softly . 
Ah ! I love it . 
I feel my inborn admiration of all that is noble , and great , and good , purified by the breath of heaven on an evening like this . 
It is hard to be laughed at in my moments of sentiment , as if my soul was like myself , old and overgrown . 
Percival ! I sanction the admission of the lamps . 
Lady Glyde Miss Halcombe Eleanor , my good wife which of you will indulge me with a game at dominoes ? He addressed us all , but he looked especially at Laura . 
She had learnt to feel my dread of offending him , and she accepted his proposal . 
It was more than I could have done at that moment . 
I could not have sat down at the same table with him for any consideration . 
His eyes seemed to reach my inmost soul through the thickening obscurity of the twilight . 
His voice trembled along every nerve in my body , and turned me hot and cold alternately . 
The mystery and terror of my dream , which had haunted me at intervals all through the evening , now oppressed my mind with an unendurable foreboding and an unutterable awe . 
I saw the white tomb again , and the veiled woman rising out of it by Hartright's side . 
The thought of Laura welled up like a spring in the depths of my heart , and filled it with waters of bitterness , never , never known to it before . 
I caught her by the hand as she passed me on her way to the table , and kissed her as if that night was to part us for ever . 
We separated that evening later than usual . 
Towards mid night the summer silence was broken by the shuddering of a low , melancholy wind among the trees . 
We all felt the sudden chill in the atmosphere , but the Count was the first to notice the stealthy rising of the wind . 
He stopped while he was lighting my candle for me , and held up his hand warningly Listen ! he said . 
There will be a change to morrow . 
The events of yesterday warned me to be ready , sooner or later , to meet the worst . 
To day is not yet at an end , and the worst has come . 
would take me to a safe position in the plantation before three . 
The change in the weather , which last night's wind warned us to expect , came with the morning . 
He neither told us where he was going nor when we might expect him back . 
We saw him pass the breakfast room window hastily , with his high boots and his waterproof coat on and that was all . 
Judging by appearances , the sentimental side of his character was persistently inclined to betray itself still . 
Luncheon time came and Sir Percival did not return . 
A taste for sweets , he said in his softest tones and his tenderest manner , is the innocent taste of women and children . 
I love to share it with them it is another bond , dear ladies , between you and me . 
Laura left the table in ten minutes' time . 
I was sorely tempted to accompany her . 
I waited , therefore , as patiently as I could , until the servant came in to clear the table . 
When I quitted the room , there were no signs , in the house or out of it , of Sir Percival's return . 
On my way to the plantation I kept carefully beyond the range of view from the luncheon room window . 
Nobody saw me and nobody followed me . 
It was then a quarter to three o'clock by my watch . 
Once among the trees I walked rapidly , until I had advanced more than half way through the plantation . 
At that point I slackened my pace and proceeded cautiously , but I saw no one , and heard no voices . 
Still the silence was unbroken still far and near no sign of a living creature appeared anywhere . 
I called , Laura ! at first softly , then louder and louder . 
No one answered and no one appeared . 
For all that I could see and hear , the only human creature in the neighbourhood of the lake and the plantation was myself . 
No mark of her presence appeared inside the building , but I found traces of her outside it , in footsteps on the sand . 
The ground was confusedly marked in this way just before the boat house . 
Close against one side of it , under shelter of the projecting roof , I discovered a little hole in the sand a hole artificially made , beyond a doubt . 
I just noticed it , and then turned away immediately to trace the footsteps as far as I could , and to follow the direction in which they might lead me . 
Feeling that the persons whose course I was tracking must necessarily have entered the plantation at this point , I entered it too . 
At first I could find no path , but I discovered one afterwards , just faintly traced among the trees , and followed it . 
It took me , for some distance , in the direction of the village , until I stopped at a point where another foot track crossed it . 
The brambles grew thickly on either side of this second path . 
I stood looking down it , uncertain which way to take next , and while I looked I saw on one thorny branch some fragments of fringe from a woman's shawl . 
A closer examination of the fringe satisfied me that it had been torn from a shawl of Laura's , and I instantly followed the second path . 
It brought me out at last , to my great relief , at the back of the house . 
I say to my great relief , because I inferred that Laura must , for some unknown reason , have returned before me by this roundabout way . 
I went in by the court yard and the offices . 
The first person whom I met in crossing the servants' hall was Mrs. Michelson , the housekeeper . 
I am afraid , Miss Halcombe , something very distressing has happened . 
My heart sank within me . 
You don't mean an accident ? I said faintly . 
No , no thank God , no accident . 
But my lady ran up stairs to her own room in tears , and Sir Percival has ordered me to give Fanny warning to leave in an hour's time . 
Fanny was Laura's maid a good affectionate girl who had been with her for years the only person in the house whose fidelity and devotion we could both depend upon . 
Where is Fanny ? I inquired . 
In my room , Miss Halcombe . 
The young woman is quite overcome , and I told her to sit down and try to recover herself . 
I went to Mrs. Michelson's room , and found Fanny in a corner , with her box by her side , crying bitterly . 
She could give me no explanation whatever of her sudden dismissal . 
Sir Percival had ordered that she should have a month's wages , in place of a month's warning , and go . 
No reason had been assigned no objection had been made to her conduct . 
She had been forbidden to appeal to her mistress , forbidden even to see her for a moment to say good bye . 
She was to go without explanations or farewells , and to go at once . 
After soothing the poor girl by a few friendly words , I asked where she proposed to sleep that night . 
She replied that she thought of going to the little inn in the village , the landlady of which was a respectable woman , known to the servants at Blackwater Park . 
The next morning , by leaving early , she might get back to her friends in Cumberland without stopping in London , where she was a total stranger . 
I felt directly that Fanny's departure offered us a safe means of communication with London and with Limmeridge House , of which it might be very important to avail ourselves . 
Those words said , I shook hands with her and went upstairs . 
The door which led to Laura's room was the door of an ante chamber opening on to the passage . 
When I tried it , it was bolted on the inside . 
I had , since that time , discovered that her name was Margaret Porcher , and that she was the most awkward , slatternly , and obstinate servant in the house . 
On opening the door she instantly stepped out to the threshold , and stood grinning at me in stolid silence . 
Why do you stand there ? I said . 
Don't you see that I want to come in ? Ah , but you mustn't come in , was the answer , with another and a broader grin still . 
Master's orders , she said , and nodded again . 
I turned my back on her , and instantly went downstairs to find him . 
It did me good , after all I had suffered and suppressed in that house it actually did me good to feel how angry I was . 
The drawing room and the breakfast room were both empty . 
I went on to the library , and there I found Sir Percival , the Count , and Madame Fosco . 
They were all three standing up , close together , and Sir Percival had a little slip of paper in his hand . 
As I opened the door I heard the Count say to him , No a thousand times over , no . 
I walked straight up to him , and looked him full in the face . 
Am I to understand , Sir Percival , that your wife's room is a prison , and that your housemaid is the gaoler who keeps it ? I asked . 
Yes , that is what you are to understand , he answered . 
Take care my gaoler hasn't got double duty to do take care your room is not a prison too . 
Take YOU care how you treat your wife , and how you threaten ME , I broke out in the heat of my anger . 
There are laws in England to protect women from cruelty and outrage . 
If you hurt a hair of Laura's head , if you dare to interfere with my freedom , come what may , to those laws I will appeal . 
Instead of answering me he turned round to the Count . 
What did I tell you ? he asked . 
They turned away from me as soon as he had spoken , and looked significantly at his wife . 
Madame Fosco immediately moved close to my side , and in that position addressed Sir Percival before either of us could speak again . 
Favour me with your attention for one moment , she said , in her clear icily suppressed tones . 
I have to thank you , Sir Percival , for your hospitality , and to decline taking advantage of it any longer . 
The Count stood by , and looked at his wife with the most enthusiastic admiration . 
She is sublime ! he said to himself . 
He approached her while he spoke , and drew her hand through his arm . 
I am at your service , Eleanor , he went on , with a quiet dignity that I had never noticed in him before . 
And at Miss Halcombe's service , if she will honour me by accepting all the assistance I can offer her . 
Damn it ! what do you mean ? cried Sir Percival , as the Count quietly moved away with his wife to the door . 
At other times I mean what I say , but at this time I mean what my wife says , replied the impenetrable Italian . 
We have changed places , Percival , for once , and Madame Fosco's opinion is mine . 
Sir Percival crumpled up the paper in his hand , and pushing past the Count , with another oath , stood between him and the door . 
Have your own way , he said , with baffled rage in his low , half whispering tones . 
Have your own way and see what comes of it . 
With those words he left the room . 
Madame Fosco glanced inquiringly at her husband . 
He has gone away very suddenly , she said . 
What does it mean ? It means that you and I together have brought the worst tempered man in all England to his senses , answered the Count . 
It means , Miss Halcombe , that Lady Glyde is relieved from a gross indignity , and you from the repetition of an unpardonable insult . 
Suffer me to express my admiration of your conduct and your courage at a very trying moment . 
Sincere admiration , suggested Madame Fosco . 
Sincere admiration , echoed the Count . 
I had no longer the strength of my first angry resistance to outrage and injury to support me . 
My heart sick anxiety to see Laura , my sense of my own helpless ignorance of what had happened at the boat house , pressed on me with an intolerable weight . 
The Count , understanding my anxiety , opened it , went out , and pulled it to after him . 
At the same time Sir Percival's heavy step descended the stairs . 
Before she had done speaking the whispering ceased , the door opened , and the Count looked in . 
Miss Halcombe , he said , I am happy to inform you that Lady Glyde is mistress again in her own house . 
I thought it might be more agreeable to you to hear of this change for the better from me than from Sir Percival , and I have therefore expressly returned to mention it . 
Admirable delicacy ! said Madame Fosco , paying back her husband's tribute of admiration with the Count's own coin , in the Count's own manner . 
He smiled and bowed as if he had received a formal compliment from a polite stranger , and drew back to let me pass out first . 
Sir Percival was standing in the hall . 
As I hurried to the stairs I heard him call impatiently to the Count to come out of the library . 
What are you waiting there for ? he said . 
I want to speak to you . 
And I want to think a little by myself , replied the other . 
Wait till later , Percival , wait till later . 
Neither he nor his friend said any more . 
I gained the top of the stairs and ran along the passage . 
In my haste and my agitation I left the door of the ante chamber open , but I closed the door of the bedroom the moment I was inside it . 
Laura was sitting alone at the far end of the room , her arms resting wearily on a table , and her face hidden in her hands . 
She started up with a cry of delight when she saw me . 
How did you get here ? she asked . 
Laura's eagerness to know what had passed downstairs proved , however , too strong to be resisted . 
She persistently repeated her inquiries . 
The Count , of course , I answered impatiently . 
Whose influence in the house She stopped me with a gesture of disgust . 
Don't speak of him , she cried . 
I had not yet sat down , and I went first to see who it was . 
When I opened the door Madame Fosco confronted me with my handkerchief in her hand . 
You dropped this downstairs , Miss Halcombe , she said , and I thought I could bring it to you , as I was passing by to my own room . 
Her face , naturally pale , had turned to such a ghastly whiteness that I started at the sight of it . 
Her hands , so sure and steady at all other times , trembled violently , and her eyes looked wolfishly past me through the open door , and fixed on Laura . 
She had been listening before she knocked ! I saw it in her white face , I saw it in her trembling hands , I saw it in her look at Laura . 
After waiting an instant she turned from me in silence , and slowly walked away . 
I closed the door again . 
There was a third person watching us in the plantation yesterday , and that third person Are you sure it was the Count ? I am absolutely certain . 
He was Sir Percival's spy he was Sir Percival's informer he set Sir Percival watching and waiting , all the morning through , for Anne Catherick and for me . 
Is Anne found ? Did you see her at the lake ? No. She has saved herself by keeping away from the place . 
When I got to the boat house no one was there . 
Yes ? Yes ? I went in and sat waiting for a few minutes . 
But my restlessness made me get up again , to walk about a little . 
As I passed out I saw some marks on the sand , close under the front of the boat house . 
I stooped down to examine them , and discovered a word written in large letters on the sand . 
The writing was signed with Anne Catherick's initials . 
Where is it ? Sir Percival has taken it from me . 
Can you remember what the writing was ? Do you think you can repeat it to me ? In substance I can , Marian . 
You would have remembered it , word for word . 
Try to tell me what the substance was before we go any further . 
I write the lines down here exactly as she repeated them to me . 
They ran thus I was seen with you , yesterday , by a tall , stout old man , and had to run to save myself . 
He was not quick enough on his feet to follow me , and he lost me among the trees . 
I dare not risk coming back here to day at the same time . 
I write this , and hide it in the sand , at six in the morning , to tell you so . 
When we speak next of your wicked husband's Secret we must speak safely , or not at all . 
I promise you shall see me again and that soon . 
left no doubt as to who the intruder had been . 
I called to mind that I had told Sir Percival , in the Count's presence the day before , that Laura had gone to the boat house to look for her brooch . 
In this case he could only have got to the neighbourhood of the boat house at the very moment when Anne Catherick discovered him . 
The suspiciously hurried manner in which she parted from Laura had no doubt prompted his useless attempt to follow her . 
Of the conversation which had previously taken place between them he could have heard nothing . 
Having arrived at something like a conclusion so far , my next great interest was to know what discoveries Sir Percival had made after Count Fosco had given him his information . 
How came you to lose possession of the letter ? I asked . 
While I was reading a shadow fell across the paper . 
I looked up , and saw Sir Percival standing in the doorway watching me . 
Did you try to hide the letter ? I tried , but he stopped me . 
'You needn't trouble to hide that , he said . 
'I happen to have read it . 
I could only look at him helplessly I could say nothing . 
'You understand ? he went on 'I have read it . 
I dug it up out of the sand two hours since , and buried it again , and wrote the word above it again , and left it ready to your hands . 
You can't lie yourself out of the scrape now . 
You saw Anne Catherick in secret yesterday , and you have got her letter in your hand at this moment . 
I have not caught HER yet , but I have caught YOU . 
He stepped close up to me I was alone with him , Marian what could I do ? I gave him the letter . 
What did he say when you gave it to him ? At first he said nothing . 
Why do you want to see it ? I want to see it , Laura , because our endurance must end , and our resistance must begin to day . 
That mark is a weapon to strike him with . 
Let me see it now I may have to swear to it at some future time . 
Oh , Marian , don't look so don't talk so ! It doesn't hurt me now ! Let me see it ! She showed me the marks . 
I was past grieving over them , past crying over them , past shuddering over them . 
They say we are either better than men , or worse . 
The gentle , innocent , affectionate creature thought I was frightened for her and sorry for her , and thought no more . 
Don't think too seriously of it , Marian , she said simply , as she pulled her sleeve down again . 
It doesn't hurt me now . 
I will try to think quietly of it , my love , for your sake . 
Well ! well ! And you told him all that Anne Catherick had said to you all that you told me ? Yes , all . 
He insisted on it I was alone with him I could conceal nothing . 
Did he say anything when you had done ? He looked at me , and laughed to himself in a mocking , bitter way . 
'I mean to have the rest out of you , he said , 'do you hear ? the rest . 
I declared to him solemnly that I had told him everything I knew . 
'Not you , he answered , 'you know more than you choose to tell . 
Won't you tell it ? You shall ! I'll wring it out of you at home if I can't wring it out of you here . 
He cursed my obstinacy , and went on , and took me with him to the house . 
'You can't deceive me , he said , 'you know more than you choose to tell . 
I'll have your secret out of you , and I'll have it out of that sister of yours as well . 
There shall be no more plotting and whispering between you . 
Neither you nor she shall see each other again till you have confessed the truth . 
I'll have you watched morning , noon , and night , till you confess the truth . 
He was deaf to everything I could say . 
He took me straight upstairs into my own room . 
Fanny was sitting there , doing some work for me , and he instantly ordered her out . 
'I'll take good care YOU'RE not mixed up in the conspiracy , he said . 
'You shall leave this house to day . 
If your mistress wants a maid , she shall have one of my choosing . 
He pushed me into the room , and locked the door on me . 
He set that senseless woman to watch me outside , Marian ! He looked and spoke like a madman . 
You may hardly understand it he did indeed . 
I do understand it , Laura . 
He is mad mad with the terrors of a guilty conscience . 
Nothing you can say or do will quiet that guilty distrust , and convince his false nature of your truth . 
I don't say this , my love , to alarm you . 
Count Fosco's interference has secured me access to you to day , but he may withdraw that interference to morrow . 
It is impossible to say what violent measures he may take next , unless we make the most of our opportunities while we have them . 
I will think so I do think so . 
Don't altogether forget poor Fanny in thinking of me . 
She wants help and comfort too . 
I will not forget her . 
I saw her before I came up here , and I have arranged to communicate with her to night . 
What letters ? I mean to write first , Laura , to Mr. Gilmore's partner , who has offered to help us in any fresh emergency . 
Little as I know of the law , I am certain that it can protect a woman from such treatment as that ruffian has inflicted on you to day . 
I will go into no details about Anne Catherick , because I have no certain information to give . 
Sir Percival has more to dread from it than you have . 
The prospect of an exposure may bring him to terms when nothing else will . 
I rose as I spoke , but Laura entreated me not to leave her . 
You will drive him to desperation , she said , and increase our dangers tenfold . 
I felt the truth the disheartening truth of those words . 
But I could not bring myself plainly to acknowledge it to her . 
In our dreadful position there was no help and no hope for us but in risking the worst . 
I said so in guarded terms . 
She sighed bitterly , but did not contest the matter . 
She only asked about the second letter that I had proposed writing . 
To whom was it to be addressed ? To Mr. Fairlie , I said . 
Your uncle is your nearest male relative , and the head of the family . 
He must and shall interfere . 
Laura shook her head sorrowfully . 
Let me only persuade him that his interference at this moment will save him inevitable trouble and wretchedness and responsibility hereafter , and he will bestir himself for his own sake . 
I know how to deal with him , Laura I have had some practice . 
And yet , hopeless as the experiment seemed , surely it was worth trying . 
I resolved to try it in sheer despair of knowing what better to do . 
Your uncle shall know the wish you have just expressed , I said , and I will ask the lawyer's advice on the subject as well . 
Good may come of it and will come of it , I hope . 
Saying that I rose again , and again Laura tried to make me resume my seat . 
Don't leave me , she said uneasily . 
My desk is on that table . 
It tried me to the quick to refuse her , even in her own interests . 
But we had been too long shut up alone together already . 
Our chance of seeing each other again might entirely depend on our not exciting any fresh suspicions . 
It was full time to show myself , quietly and unconcernedly , among the wretches who were at that very moment , perhaps , thinking of us and talking of us downstairs . 
I explained the miserable necessity to Laura , and prevailed on her to recognise it as I did . 
I will come back again , love , in an hour or less , I said . 
The worst is over for to day . 
Keep yourself quiet and fear nothing . 
Is the key in the door , Marian ? Can I lock it on the inside ? Yes , here is the key . 
Lock the door , and open it to nobody until I come upstairs again . 
I kissed her and left her . 
It was a relief to me as I walked away to hear the key turned in the lock , and to know that the door was at her own command . 
My journal was already secured with other papers in the table drawer , but my writing materials were left out . 
I found no appearance of any one having entered the room while I had been talking with Laura . 
were scattered over the table much as usual . 
The only circumstance in connection with them that at all struck me was that the seal lay tidily in the tray with the pencils and the wax . 
to put it there , neither did I remember putting it there . 
I locked the door , put the key in my pocket , and went downstairs . 
Madame Fosco was alone in the hall looking at the weather glass . 
Still falling , she said . 
I am afraid we must expect more rain . 
Her face was composed again to its customary expression and its customary colour . 
But the hand with which she pointed to the dial of the weather glass still trembled . 
But , she added , resuming her icy manner in a moment , I have no secrets from my husband even in trifles . 
I was prepared to hear it , and yet she turned me cold all over when she said those words . 
Let me earnestly entreat you , Madame Fosco let me earnestly entreat the Count to make some allowances for the sad position in which my sister is placed . 
She spoke while she was smarting under the insult and injustice inflicted on her by her husband , and she was not herself when she said those rash words . 
May I hope that they will be considerately and generously forgiven ? Most assuredly , said the Count's quiet voice behind me . 
He had stolen on us with his noiseless tread and his book in his hand from the library . 
When Lady Glyde said those hasty words , he went on , she did me an injustice which I lament and forgive . 
Let us never return to the subject , Miss Halcombe let us all comfortably combine to forget it from this moment . 
I beg you on my knees to say no more , Miss Halcombe I am truly shocked that you should have thought it necessary to say so much . 
Never did I know all my horror of him till then . 
That innocent familiarity turned my blood as if it had been the vilest insult that a man could offer me . 
His wife's tigerish jealousy came to my rescue and forced his attention away from me the moment he possessed himself of my hand . 
Her cold blue eyes caught light , her dull white cheeks flushed into bright colour , she looked years younger than her age in an instant . 
Your foreign forms of politeness are not understood by Englishwomen . 
Pardon me , my angel ! The best and dearest Englishwoman in the world understands them . 
With those words he dropped my hand and quietly raised his wife's hand to his lips in place of it . 
I ran back up the stairs to take refuge in my own room . 
If there had been time to think , my thoughts , when I was alone again , would have caused me bitter suffering . 
But there was no time to think . 
Happily for the preservation of my calmness and my courage there was time for nothing but action . 
The letters to the lawyer and to Mr. Fairlie were still to be written , and I sat down at once without a moment's hesitation to devote myself to them . 
There was no multitude of resources to perplex me there was absolutely no one to depend on , in the first instance , but myself . 
Sir Percival had neither friends nor relatives in the neighbourhood whose intercession I could attempt to employ . 
He was on the coldest terms in some cases on the worst terms with the families of his own rank and station who lived near him . 
We two women had neither father nor brother to come to the house and take our parts . 
Nothing but the most imminent personal peril could justify our taking that second course . 
The letters must be tried first , and I wrote them . 
that topic was connected with a mystery which we could not yet explain , and which it would therefore be useless to write about to a professional man . 
The letter to Mr. Fairlie occupied me next . 
When I had done , and had sealed and directed the two envelopes , I went back with the letters to Laura's room , to show her that they were written . 
Has anybody disturbed you ? I asked , when she opened the door to me . 
Nobody has knocked , she replied . 
But I heard some one in the outer room . 
Was it a man or a woman ? A woman . 
I heard the rustling of her gown . 
A rustling like silk ? Yes , like silk . 
Madame Fosco had evidently been watching outside . 
The mischief she might do by herself was little to be feared . 
But the mischief she might do , as a willing instrument in her husband's hands , was too formidable to be overlooked . 
What became of the rustling of the gown when you no longer heard it in the ante room ? I inquired . 
Did you hear it go past your wall , along the passage ? Yes . 
I kept still and listened , and just heard it . 
Which way did it go ? Towards your room . 
The sound had not caught my ears . 
But I was then deeply absorbed in my letters , and I write with a heavy hand and a quill pen , scraping and scratching noisily over the paper . 
It was more likely that Madame Fosco would hear the scraping of my pen than that I should hear the rustling of her dress . 
for not trusting my letters to the post bag in the hall . 
More difficulties ! she said wearily more difficulties and more dangers ! No dangers , I replied . 
Some little difficulty , perhaps . 
I am thinking of the safest way of putting my two letters into Fanny's hands . 
You have really written them , then ? Oh , Marian , run no risks pray , pray run no risks ! No , no no fear . 
Let me see what o'clock is it now ? It was a quarter to six . 
There would be time for me to get to the village inn , and to come back again before dinner . 
If I waited till the evening I might find no second opportunity of safely leaving the house . 
Keep the key turned in the lock . 
Laura , I said , and don't be afraid about me . 
If you hear any inquiries made , call through the door , and say that I am gone out for a walk . 
When shall you be back ? Before dinner , without fail . 
By this time to morrow you will have a clear headed , trustworthy man acting for your good . 
Mr. Gilmore's partner is our next best friend to Mr. Gilmore himself . 
I had not ascertained yet whether Sir Percival was indoors or out . 
He must have specially invited her to see them for she would never have thought of going into the library of her own accord . 
The man's slightest actions had a purpose of some kind at the bottom of every one of them . 
What could be his purpose here ? It was no time then to inquire into his motives . 
I looked about for Madame Fosco next , and found her following her favourite circle round and round the fish pond . 
I was a little doubtful how she would meet me , after the outbreak of jealousy of which I had been the cause so short a time since . 
But her husband had tamed her in the interval , and she now spoke to me with the same civility as usual . 
My only object in addressing myself to her was to ascertain if she knew what had become of Sir Percival . 
I contrived to refer to him indirectly , and after a little fencing on either side she at last mentioned that he had gone out . 
Which of the horses has he taken ? I asked carelessly . 
None of them , she replied . 
He went away two hours since on foot . 
As I understood it , his object was to make fresh inquiries about the woman named Anne Catherick . 
He appears to be unreasonably anxious about tracing her . 
Do you happen to know if she is dangerously mad , Miss Halcombe ? I do not , Countess . 
Are you going in ? Yes , I think so . 
I suppose it will soon be time to dress for dinner . 
We entered the house together . 
Madame Fosco strolled into the library , and closed the door . 
I went at once to fetch my hat and shawl . 
Every moment was of importance , if I was to get to Fanny at the inn and be back before dinner . 
When I crossed the hall again no one was there , and the singing of the birds in the library had ceased . 
I could not stop to make any fresh investigations . 
I could only assure myself that the way was clear , and then leave the house with the two letters safe in my pocket . 
On my way to the village I prepared myself for the possibility of meeting Sir Percival . 
As long as I had him to deal with alone I felt certain of not losing my presence of mind . 
Any woman who is sure of her own wits is a match at any time for a man who is not sure of his own temper . 
I had no such fear of Sir Percival as I had of the Count . 
Instead of fluttering , it had composed me , to hear of the errand on which he had gone out . 
While the tracing of Anne Catherick was the great anxiety that occupied him , Laura and I might hope for some cessation of any active persecution at his hands . 
For our sakes now , as well as for Anne's , I hoped and prayed fervently that she might still escape him . 
Nothing was behind me all the way but an empty country waggon . 
Apparently that impression was wrong , for when the waggon had passed me the road behind it was quite clear . 
I reached the inn without meeting Sir Percival , and without noticing anything more , and was glad to find that the landlady had received Fanny with all possible kindness . 
The girl had a little parlour to sit in , away from the noise of the taproom , and a clean bedchamber at the top of the house . 
Try to make the best of it , Fanny , I said . 
Your mistress and I will stand your friends , and will take care that your character shall not suffer . 
Now , listen to me . 
I have very little time to spare , and I am going to put a great trust in your hands . 
I wish you to take care of these two letters . 
The one with the stamp on it you are to put into the post when you reach London to morrow . 
The other , directed to Mr. Fairlie , you are to deliver to him yourself as soon as you get home . 
Keep both the letters about you and give them up to no one . 
They are of the last importance to your mistress's interests . 
Fanny put the letters into the bosom of her dress . 
There they shall stop , miss , she said , till I have done what you tell me . 
Mind you are at the station in good time to morrow morning , I continued . 
And when you see the housekeeper at Limmeridge give her my compliments , and say that you are in my service until Lady Glyde is able to take you back . 
We may meet again sooner than you think . 
So keep a good heart , and don't miss the seven o'clock train . 
Thank you , miss thank you kindly . 
It gives one courage to hear your voice again . 
Please to offer my duty to my lady , and say I left all the things as tidy as I could in the time . 
Oh , dear ! dear ! who will dress her for dinner to day ? It really breaks my heart , miss , to think of it . 
The letters are in Fanny's hands , I whispered to her at the door . 
Do you mean to join us at dinner ? Oh , no , no not for the world . 
Has anything happened ? Has any one disturbed you ? Yes just now Sir Percival Did he come in ? No , he frightened me by a thump on the door outside . 
I said , 'Who's there ? 'You know , he answered . 
'Will you alter your mind , and tell me the rest ? You shall ! Sooner or later I'll wring it out of you . 
You know where Anne Catherick is at this moment . 
'Indeed , indeed , I said , 'I don't . 
'You do ! he called back . 
'I'll crush your obstinacy mind that ! I'll wring it out of you ! He went away with those words went away , Marian , hardly five minutes ago . 
He had not found Anne ! We were safe for that night he had not found her yet . 
You are going downstairs , Marian ? Come up again in the evening . 
Don't be uneasy if I am a little late I must be careful not to give offence by leaving them too soon . 
The dinner bell rang and I hastened away . 
Sir Percival took Madame Fosco into the dining room , and the Count gave me his arm . 
He was hot and flushed , and was not dressed with his customary care and completeness . 
The one social obligation which he seemed to be self possessed enough to perform as carefully as ever was the obligation of being persistently civil and attentive to me . 
of Sir Percival's clumsy violence , have been the means he has resolutely and impenetrably used to get to his end ever since he set foot in this house . 
I suspected it when he first interfered in our favour , on the day when the deed was produced in the library , and I feel certain of it now . 
When Madame Fosco and I rose to leave the table , the Count rose also to accompany us back to the drawing room . 
What are you going away for ? asked Sir Percival I mean YOU , Fosco . 
I am going away because I have had dinner enough , and wine enough , answered the Count . 
Be so kind , Percival , as to make allowances for my foreign habit of going out with the ladies , as well as coming in with them . 
Nonsense ! Another glass of claret won't hurt you . 
Sit down again like an Englishman . 
I want half an hour's quiet talk with you over our wine . 
A quiet talk , Percival , with all my heart , but not now , and not over the wine . 
Later in the evening , if you please later in the evening . 
Civil ! said Sir Percival savagely . 
a dangerous subject as well , in the estimation of the Count . 
These considerations occurred to me while we were passing from the dining room to the drawing room . 
Sir Percival's angry commentary on his friend's desertion of him had not produced the slightest effect . 
The Count obstinately accompanied us to the tea table waited a minute or two in the room went out into the hall and returned with the post bag in his hands . 
It was then eight o'clock the hour at which the letters were always despatched from Blackwater Park . 
Have you any letter for the post , Miss Halcombe ? he asked , approaching me with the bag . 
I saw Madame Fosco , who was making the tea , pause , with the sugar tongs in her hand , to listen for my answer . 
No , Count , thank you . 
Before I could get to the door the Count stopped me , by a request for a cup of tea . 
I gave him the cup of tea , and tried a second time to get away . 
I vainly pleaded my own total ignorance of music , and total want of taste in that direction . 
He only appealed to me again with a vehemence which set all further protest on my part at defiance . 
were always reviling the Italians for their inability to cultivate the higher kinds of music . 
We were perpetually talking of our Oratorios , and they were perpetually talking of their Symphonies . 
Prayer of Israelites , at the passage of the Red Sea . 
I was released at last , not by my own efforts , but by Sir Percival's interposition . 
He opened the dining room door , and called out angrily to know what that infernal noise meant . 
The Count instantly got up from the piano . 
Ah ! if Percival is coming , he said , harmony and melody are both at an end . 
I heard Sir Percival call after him from the dining room window . 
But he took no notice he seemed determined not to hear . 
That long deferred quiet talk between them was still to be put off , was still to wait for the Count's absolute will and pleasure . 
He had detained me in the drawing room nearly half an hour from the time when his wife left us . 
Nobody had disturbed her , no faint rustling of the silk dress had been audible , either in the ante room or in the passage . 
It was then twenty minutes to nine . 
After going to my room to get my journal , I returned , and sat with Laura , sometimes writing , sometimes stopping to talk with her . 
Nobody came near us , and nothing happened . 
We remained together till ten o'clock . 
I then rose , said my last cheering words , and wished her good night . 
She locked her door again after we had arranged that I should come in and see her the first thing in the morning . 
Sir Percival , and the Count and his wife , were sitting together . 
Sir Percival was yawning in an easy chair , the Count was reading , Madame Fosco was fanning herself . 
Strange to say , HER face was flushed now . 
She , who never suffered from the heat , was most undoubtedly suffering from it to night . 
I am afraid , Countess , you are not quite so well as usual ? I said . 
The very remark I was about to make to you , she replied . 
You are looking pale , my dear . 
My dear ! It was the first time she had ever addressed me with that familiarity ! There was an insolent smile too on her face when she said the words . 
I am suffering from one of my bad headaches , I answered coldly . 
Ah , indeed ? Want of exercise , I suppose ? A walk before dinner would have been just the thing for you . 
She referred to the walk with a strange emphasis . 
Had she seen me go out ? No matter if she had . 
The letters were safe now in Fanny's hands . 
Come and have a smoke , Fosco , said Sir Percival , rising , with another uneasy look at his friend . 
With pleasure , Percival , when the ladies have gone to bed , replied the Count . 
Excuse me , Countess , if I set you the example of retiring , I said . 
The only remedy for such a headache as mine is going to bed . 
There was the same insolent smile on the woman's face when I shook hands with her . 
Sir Percival paid no attention to me . 
He was looking impatiently at Madame Fosco , who showed no signs of leaving the room with me . 
The Count smiled to himself behind his book . 
There was yet another delay to that quiet talk with Sir Percival and the Countess was the impediment this time . 
Once safely shut into my own room , I opened these pages , and prepared to go on with that part of the day's record which was still left to write . 
For ten minutes or more I sat idle , with the pen in my hand , thinking over the events of the last twelve hours . 
When I at last addressed myself to my task , I found a difficulty in proceeding with it which I had never experienced before . 
My sitting room window was wide open , and I leaned out listlessly to look at the night . 
It was dark and quiet . 
Neither moon nor stars were visible . 
There was a smell like rain in the still , heavy air , and I put my hand out of window . 
No. The rain was only threatening , it had not come yet . 
The next moment I saw a tiny red spark advancing from the farther end of the house in the pitch darkness . 
I heard no footsteps , and I could see nothing but the spark . 
The spark remained stationary for a moment , then moved back again in the direction from which it had advanced . 
As I followed its progress I saw a second red spark , larger than the first , approaching from the distance . 
The two met together in the darkness . 
I waited quietly at the window , certain that they could neither of them see me in the darkness of the room . 
What's the matter ? I heard Sir Percival say in a low voice . 
Why don't you come in and sit down ? I want to see the light out of that window , replied the Count softly . 
What harm does the light do ? It shows she is not in bed yet . 
She is sharp enough to suspect something , and bold enough to come downstairs and listen , if she can get the chance . 
Humbug ! You're always talking of patience . 
I shall talk of something else presently . 
I had heard enough to determine me on justifying the Count's opinion of my sharpness and my courage . 
I wanted but one motive to sanction the act to my own conscience , and to give me courage enough for performing it and that motive I had . 
Laura's honour , Laura's happiness Laura's life itself might depend on my quick ears and my faithful memory to night . 
This expression of his intentions was necessarily sufficient to inform me that the library was the room in which he proposed that the conversation should take place . 
The top of this verandah was flat , the rain water being carried off from it by pipes into tanks which helped to supply the house . 
must inevitably reach my ears . 
Strongly as I was fortified in my resolution by the desperate nature of our situation , I hoped most fervently that I might escape this last emergency . 
I went softly back to my bedroom to try the safer experiment of the verandah roof first . 
A complete change in my dress was imperatively necessary for many reasons . 
I took off my silk gown to begin with , because the slightest noise from it on that still night might have betrayed me . 
I next removed the white and cumbersome parts of my underclothing , and replaced them by a petticoat of dark flannel . 
Over this I put my black travelling cloak , and pulled the hood on to my head . 
In my ordinary evening costume I took up the room of three men at least . 
The first window belonged to a spare room which was empty . 
The second and third windows belonged to Laura's room . 
The fourth window belonged to Sir Percival's room . 
The fifth belonged to the Countess's room . 
There , at the very place above the library to which my course was directed there I saw a gleam of light ! The Countess was not yet in bed . 
It was too late to draw back it was no time to wait . 
I determined to go on at all hazards , and trust for security to my own caution and to the darkness of the night . 
It was better to brush close by the wall than to risk striking my feet against the flower pots within a few inches of me , on the other side . 
I passed the dark window of the spare room , trying the leaden roof at each step with my foot before I risked resting my weight on it . 
I passed the dark window of Sir Percival's room . 
When I ventured to look up at the window itself I found that the top of it only was open , and that the blind inside was drawn down . 
While I was looking I saw the shadow of Madame Fosco pass across the white field of the blind then pass slowly back again . 
There was room enough for me to sit between them and no more . 
The sweet scented leaves of the flower on my left hand just brushed my cheek as I lightly rested my head against the railing . 
The devil take your restlessness ! When do you mean to sit down ? growled Sir Percival's voice beneath me . 
Ouf ! how hot it is ! said the Count , sighing and puffing wearily . 
So far the chance was mine . 
The clock in the turret struck the quarter to twelve as they settled themselves in their chairs . 
I heard Madame Fosco through the open window yawning , and saw her shadow pass once more across the white field of the blind . 
Meanwhile , Sir Percival and the Count began talking together below , now and then dropping their voices a little lower than usual , but never sinking them to a whisper . 
For some minutes I could only succeed in gathering the general substance of it . 
Sir Percival merely answered by upbraiding his friend with having unjustifiably slighted his wishes and neglected his interests all through the day . 
We are at a serious crisis in our affairs , Percival , he said , and if we are to decide on the future at all , we must decide secretly to night . 
That sentence of the Count's was the first which my attention was ready enough to master exactly as it was spoken . 
From this point , with certain breaks and interruptions , my whole interest fixed breathlessly on the conversation , and I followed it word for word . 
Crisis ? repeated Sir Percival . 
It's a worse crisis than you think for , I can tell you . 
So I should suppose , from your behaviour for the last day or two , returned the other coolly . 
Before we advance to what I do NOT know , let us be quite certain of what I DO know . 
Let us first see if I am right about the time that is past , before I make any proposal to you for the time that is to come . 
Stop till I get the brandy and water . 
The cold water with pleasure , a spoon , and the basin of sugar . 
Eau sucree , my friend nothing more . 
Sugar and water for a man of your age ! There ! mix your sickly mess . 
You foreigners are all alike . 
I will put our position plainly before you , as I understand it , and you shall say if I am right or wrong . 
Make what you can of it . 
by the help of your wife . 
I said this Human ingenuity , my friend , has hitherto only discovered two ways in which a man can manage a woman . 
One way is to knock her down a method largely adopted by the brutal lower orders of the people , but utterly abhorrent to the refined and educated classes above them . 
is never to accept a provocation at a woman's hands . 
It holds with animals , it holds with children , and it holds with women , who are nothing but children grown up . 
Quiet resolution is the one quality the animals , the children , and the women all fail in . 
If they can once shake this superior quality in their master , they get the better of HIM . 
If they can never succeed in disturbing it , he gets the better of THEM . 
I said to you , Remember that plain truth when you want your wife to help you to the money . 
I said , Remember it doubly and trebly in the presence of your wife's sister , Miss Halcombe . 
Have you remembered it ? Not once in all the implications that have twisted themselves about us in this house . 
Every provocation that your wife and her sister could offer to you , you instantly accepted from them . 
A chair fell on the pavement of the verandah fell with a crash , as if it had been kicked down . 
It was well for me that the Count's revelation roused Sir Pemival's anger as it did . 
On hearing that I had been once more discovered I started so that the railing against which I leaned cracked again . 
Had he followed me to the inn ? Did he infer that I must have given my letters to Fanny when I told him I had none for the post bag . 
Percival ! Percival ! you deserve to fail , and you HAVE failed . 
Sir Percival was the first to break the silence again . 
Yes , yes , bully and bluster as much as you like , he said sulkily the difficulty about the money is not the only difficulty . 
You would be for taking strong measures with the women yourself if you knew as much as I do . 
We will come to that second difficulty all in good time , rejoined the Count . 
You may confuse yourself , Percival , as much as you please , but you shall not confuse me . 
Let the question of the money be settled first . 
bully and bluster a little more ? Pooh ! It's easy enough to grumble at ME . 
Say what is to be done that's a little harder . 
Is it ? Bah ! This is what is to be done You give up all direction in the business from to night you leave it for the future in my hands only . 
Is it to be in my hands or not ? Say it is in your hands what then ? A few questions , Percival , to begin with . 
I must wait a little yet , to let circumstances guide me , and I must know , in every possible way , what those circumstances are likely to be . 
There is no time to lose . 
I have told you already that Miss Halcombe has written to the lawyer to day for the second time . 
How did you find it out ? What did she say ? If I told you , Percival , we should only come back at the end to where we are now . 
Enough that I have found it out and the finding has caused that trouble and anxiety which made me so inaccessible to you all through to day . 
Now , to refresh my memory about your affairs it is some time since I talked them over with you . 
What ! You have no money at the bankers ? A few hundreds , when I want as many thousands . 
Have you no other security to borrow upon ? Not a shred . 
What have you actually got with your wife at the present moment ? Nothing but the interest of her twenty thousand pounds barely enough to pay our daily expenses . 
What do you expect from your wife ? Three thousand a year when her uncle dies . 
A fine fortune , Percival . 
What sort of a man is this uncle ? Old ? No neither old nor young . 
A good tempered , freely living man ? Married ? No I think my wife told me , not married . 
If he was married , and had a son , Lady Glyde would not be next heir to the property . 
I'll tell you what he is . 
He's a maudlin , twaddling , selfish fool , and bores everybody who comes near him about the state of his health . 
Men of that sort , Percival , live long , and marry malevolently when you least expect it . 
I don't give you much , my friend , for your chance of the three thousand a year . 
Is there nothing more that comes to you from your wife ? Nothing . 
Absolutely nothing ? Absolutely nothing except in case of her death . 
Aha ! in the case of her death . 
The Count moved from the verandah to the gravel walk outside . 
I knew that he had moved by his voice . 
The rain has come at last , I heard him say . 
The state of my cloak showed that it had been falling thickly for some little time . 
The Count went back under the verandah I heard the chair creak beneath his weight as he sat down in it again . 
Paid down ? Paid down . 
They were silent once more . 
As their voices ceased Madame Fosco's shadow darkened the blind again . 
Instead of passing this time , it remained , for a moment , quite still . 
I saw her fingers steal round the corner of the blind , and draw it on one side . 
The dim white outline of her face , looking out straight over me , appeared behind the window . 
I kept still , shrouded from head to foot in my black cloak . 
The rain , which was fast wetting me , dripped over the glass , blurred it , and prevented her from seeing anything . 
More rain ! I heard her say to herself . 
She dropped the blind , and I breathed again freely . 
The talk went on below me , the Count resuming it this time . 
Percival ! do you care about your wife ? Fosco ! that's rather a downright question . 
I am a downright man , and I repeat it . 
The REMOTE chance , Percival the remote chance only . 
And you want money , at once . 
In your position the gain is certain the loss doubtful . 
Speak for yourself as well as for me . 
Some of the money I want has been borrowed for you . 
And if you come to gain , my wife's death would be ten thousand pounds in your wife's pocket . 
Sharp as you are , you seem to have conveniently forgotten Madame Fosco's legacy . 
Why not ? The respectable lawyers who scribble scrabble your deeds and your wills look the deaths of living people in the face . 
If your wife lives , you pay those bills with her signature to the parchment . 
If your wife dies , you pay them with her death . 
As he spoke the light in Madame Fosco's room was extinguished , and the whole second floor of the house was now sunk in darkness , Talk ! talk ! grumbled Sir Percival . 
One would think , to hear you , that my wife's signature to the deed was got already . 
You have left the matter in my hands , retorted the Count , and I have more than two months before me to turn round in . 
Say no more about it , if you please , for the present . 
When the bills are due , you will see for yourself if my 'talk ! talk ! is worth something , or if it is not . 
Speak , my friend and pardon me if I shock your fiery national tastes by mixing myself a second glass of sugar and water . 
Shall I help you ? suggested the Count . 
There is a skeleton in your cupboard here at Blackwater Park that has peeped out in these last few days at other people besides yourself . 
Well , suppose it has . 
If it doesn't concern you , you needn't be curious about it , need you ? Do I look curious about it ? Yes , you do . 
This secret of yours has sought me I have not sought it . 
Then my curiosity is at an end . 
It dies in me from this moment . 
The chair below suddenly creaked again I felt the trellis work pillar under me shake from top to bottom . 
The Count had started to his feet , and had struck it with his hand in indignation . 
It has been the misfortune of my life that I have had few chances . 
See ! I trample my base curiosity under my feet . 
My exalted sentiments lift me above it . 
Recognise them , Percival ! imitate them , Percival ! Shake hands I forgive you . 
When my friend has wounded me , I can pardon him without apologies . 
Tell me , in plain words , do you want my help ? Yes , badly enough . 
And you can ask for it without compromising yourself ? I can try , at any rate . 
Well , this is how it stands I told you to day that I had done my best to find Anne Catherick , and failed . 
Fosco ! I'm a lost man if I DON'T find her . 
Ha ! Is it so serious as that ? A little stream of light travelled out under the verandah , and fell over the gravel walk . 
The Count had taken the lamp from the inner part of the room to see his friend clearly by the light of it . 
Your face speaks the truth this time . 
Serious , indeed as serious as the money matters themselves . 
As true as I sit here , more serious ! The light disappeared again and the talk went on . 
I showed you the letter to my wife that Anne Catherick hid in the sand , Sir Percival continued . 
There's no boasting in that letter , Fosco she DOES know the Secret . 
Say as little as possible , Percival , in my presence , of the Secret . 
Does she know it from you ? No , from her mother . 
Two women in possession of your private mind bad , bad , bad , my friend ! One question here , before we go any farther . 
The motive of your shutting up the daughter in the asylum is now plain enough to me , but the manner of her escape is not quite so clear . 
She's just mad enough to be shut up , and just sane enough to ruin me when she's at large if you understand that ? I do understand it . 
Now , Percival , come at once to the point , and then I shall know what to do . 
Where is the danger of your position at the present moment ? Anne Catherick is in this neighbourhood , and in communication with Lady Glyde there's the danger , plain enough . 
If Lady Glyde does know the Secret , she must know also that it is a compromising secret for you . 
As your wife , surely it is her interest to keep it ? Is it ? I'm coming to that . 
It might be her interest if she cared two straws about me . 
But I happen to be an encumbrance in the way of another man . 
She was in love with him before she married me she's in love with him now an infernal vagabond of a drawing master , named Hartright . 
My dear friend ! what is there extraordinary in that ? They are all in love with some other man . 
Who gets the first of a woman's heart ? In all my experience I have never yet met with the man who was Number One . 
Number Three , Four , Five , often . 
Number One , never ! He exists , of course but I have not met with him . 
Wait ! I haven't done yet . 
Who do you think helped Anne Catherick to get the start , when the people from the mad house were after her ? Hartright . 
Who do you think saw her again in Cumberland ? Hartright . 
Both times he spoke to her alone . 
Stop ! don't interrupt me . 
The scoundrel's as sweet on my wife as she is on him . 
He knows the Secret , and she knows the Secret . 
Once let them both get together again , and it's her interest and his interest to turn their information against me . 
Gently , Percival gently ! Are you insensible to the virtue of Lady Glyde ? That for the virtue of Lady Glyde ! I believe in nothing about her but her money . 
Don't you see how the case stands ? She might be harmless enough by herself but if she and that vagabond Hartright Yes , yes , I see . 
Where is Mr. Hartright ? Out of the country . 
If he means to keep a whole skin on his bones , I recommend him not to come back in a hurry . 
Are you sure he is out of the country ? Certain . 
I had him watched from the time he left Cumberland to the time he sailed . 
Oh , I've been careful , I can tell you ! Anne Catherick lived with some people at a farm house near Limmeridge . 
I went there myself , after she had given me the slip , and made sure that they knew nothing . 
I gave her mother a form of letter to write to Miss Halcombe , exonerating me from any bad motive in putting her under restraint . 
I see ! yes , yes , I see ! The finding of Anne Catherick is the first necessity make your mind easy about the rest . 
Your wife is here , under your thumb Miss Halcombe is inseparable from her , and is , therefore , under your thumb also and Mr. Hartright is out of the country . 
This invisible Anne of yours is all we have to think of for the present . 
You have made your inquiries ? Yes . 
I have been to her mother , I have ransacked the village and all to no purpose . 
Is her mother to be depended on ? Yes . 
She has told your secret once . 
She won't tell it again . 
Why not ? Are her own interests concerned in keeping it , as well as yours ? Yes deeply concerned . 
I am glad to hear it , Percival , for your sake . 
Don't be discouraged , my friend . 
Our money matters , as I told you , leave me plenty of time to turn round in , and I may search for Anne Catherick to morrow to better purpose than you . 
One last question before we go to bed . 
What is it ? It is this . 
But accident did not bring me near enough to see this same woman's face plainly . 
I must know how to recognise our invisible Anne . 
What is she like ? Like ? Come ! I'll tell you in two words . 
She's a sickly likeness of my wife . 
The chair creaked , and the pillar shook once more . 
The Count was on his feet again this time in astonishment . 
What ! ! ! he exclaimed eagerly . 
Fancy my wife , after a bad illness , with a touch of something wrong in her head and there is Anne Catherick for you , answered Sir Percival . 
Are they related to each other ? Not a bit of it . 
And yet so like ? Yes , so like . 
What are you laughing about ? There was no answer , and no sound of any kind . 
The Count was laughing in his smooth silent internal way . 
What are you laughing about ? reiterated Sir Percival . 
Perhaps at my own fancies , my good friend . 
Make your mind easy , Percival . 
Sleep , my son , the sleep of the just , and see what I will do for you when daylight comes to help us both . 
I have my projects and my plans here in my big head . 
Recognise them , Percival ! imitate them , Percival ! I forgive you again I shake hands again . 
Good night ! Not another word was spoken . 
I heard the Count close the library door . 
I heard Sir Percival barring up the window shutters . 
It had been raining , raining all the time . 
I was cramped by my position and chilled to the bones . 
When I first tried to move , the effort was so painful to me that I was obliged to desist . 
I tried a second time , and succeeded in rising to my knees on the wet roof . 
As I crept to the wall , and raised myself against it , I looked back , and saw the window of the Count's dressing room gleam into light . 
The clock struck the quarter after one , when I laid my hands on the window sill of my own room . 
I had seen nothing and heard nothing which could lead me to suppose that my retreat had been discovered . 
The sun is shining in a clear sky . 
I have not been near my bed I have not once closed my weary wakeful eyes . 
From the same window at which I looked out into the darkness of last night , I look out now at the bright stillness of the morning . 
I count the hours that have passed since I escaped to the shelter of this room by my own sensations and those hours seem like weeks . 
I hardly know when I roused myself . 
for dry clothes to warm me . 
The doing of these things is in my mind , but not the time when they were done . 
I remember the time by the sudden brightness and clearness , the feverish strain and excitement of all my faculties which came with it . 
All this I remember plainly there is no confusion in my head yet . 
A fear beyond all other fears has got possession of me . 
I am afraid of this heat that parches my skin . 
I am afraid of the creeping and throbbing that I feel in my head . 
Was it nine struck , or eight ? Nine , surely ? I am shivering again shivering , from head to foot , in the summer air . 
Have I been sitting here asleep ? I don't know what I have been doing . 
Oh , my God ! am I going to be ill ? Ill , at such a time as this ! My head I am sadly afraid of my head . 
I can write , but the lines all run together . 
Laura I can write Laura , and see I write it . 
The two or three lines which follow contain fragments of words only , mingled with blots and scratches of the pen . 
of the name of Lady Glyde . 
On the next page of the Diary , another entry appears . 
It is in a man's handwriting , large , bold , and firmly regular , and the date is June the st . 
It contains these lines POSTSCRIPT BY A SINCERE FRIEND The illness of our excellent Miss Halcombe has afforded me the opportunity of enjoying an unexpected intellectual pleasure . 
There are many hundred pages here . 
I can lay my hand on my heart , and declare that every page has charmed , refreshed , delighted me . 
To a man of my sentiments it is unspeakably gratifying to be able to say this . 
Admirable woman ! I allude to Miss Halcombe . 
Stupendous effort ! I refer to the Diary . 
Yes ! these pages are amazing . 
The presentation of my own character is masterly in the extreme . 
I certify , with my whole heart , to the fidelity of the portrait . 
I feel how vivid an impression I must have produced to have been painted in such strong , such rich , such massive colours as these . 
I lament afresh the cruel necessity which sets our interests at variance , and opposes us to each other . 
Under happier circumstances how worthy I should have been of Miss Halcombe how worthy Miss Halcombe would have been of ME . 
The sentiments which animate my heart assure me that the lines I have just written express a Profound Truth . 
Those sentiments exalt me above all merely personal considerations . 
He has hitherto declined to avail himself of my assistance . 
Miserable man ! Finally , those sentiments dictate the lines grateful , sympathetic , paternal lines which appear in this place . 
to its place on the writer's table . 
Events are hurrying me away . 
Circumstances are guiding me to serious issues . 
Vast perspectives of success unroll themselves before my eyes . 
I accomplish my destiny with a calmness which is terrible to myself . 
Nothing but the homage of my admiration is my own . 
I deposit it with respectful tenderness at the feet of Miss Halcombe . 
I breathe my wishes for her recovery . 
I condole with her on the inevitable failure of every plan that she has formed for her sister's benefit . 
At the same time , I entreat her to believe that the information which I have derived from her Diary will in no respect help me to contribute to that failure . 
It simply confirms the plan of conduct which I had previously arranged . 
I have to thank these pages for awakening the finest sensibilities in my nature nothing more . 
To a person of similar sensibility this simple assertion will explain and excuse everything . 
Miss Halcombe is a person of similar sensibility . 
In that persuasion I sign myself , Fosco . 
THE STORY CONTINUED BY FREDERICK FAIRLIE , ESQ . 
It is the grand misfortune of my life that nobody will let me alone . 
Why I ask everybody why worry ME ? Nobody answers that question , and nobody lets me alone . 
Relatives , friends , and strangers all combine to annoy me . 
What have I done ? I ask myself , I ask my servant , Louis , fifty times a day what have I done ? Neither of us can tell . 
Most extraordinary ! The last annoyance that has assailed me is the annoyance of being called upon to write this Narrative . 
I am threatened if I fail to exert myself in the manner required , with consequences which I cannot so much as think of without perfect prostration . 
There is really no need to threaten me . 
Shattered by my miserable health and my family troubles , I am incapable of resistance . 
If you insist , you take your unjust advantage of me , and I give way immediately . 
, and what I can't remember and can't write , Louis must remember and write for me . 
He is an ass , and I am an invalid , and we are likely to make all sorts of mistakes between us . 
How humiliating ! I am told to remember dates . 
Good heavens ! I never did such a thing in my life how am I to begin now ? I have asked Louis . 
He is not quite such an ass as I have hitherto supposed . 
He remembers the date of the event , within a week or two and I remember the name of the person . 
The date was towards the end of June , or the beginning of July , and the name was Fanny . 
Quite a mistake , I assure you , in my case . 
However , there I was , reclining , with my art treasures about me , and wanting a quiet morning . 
Because I wanted a quiet morning , of course Louis came in . 
It was perfectly natural that I should inquire what the deuce he meant by making his appearance when I had not rung my bell . 
I seldom swear it is such an ungentlemanlike habit but when Louis answered by a grin , I think it was also perfectly natural that I should damn him for grinning . 
At any rate , I did . 
This rigorous mode of treatment , I have observed , invariably brings persons in the lower class of life to their senses . 
It brought Louis to HIS senses . 
He was so obliging as to leave off grinning , and inform me that a Young Person was outside wanting to see me . 
, that her name was Fanny . 
Who is Fanny ? Lady Glyde's maid , sir . 
What does Lady Glyde's maid want with me . 
A letter , sir Take it . 
She refuses to give it to anybody but you , sir . 
Who sends the letter ? Miss Halcombe , sir . 
The moment I heard Miss Halcombe's name I gave up . 
It is a habit of mine always to give up to Miss Halcombe . 
I find , by experience , that it saves noise . 
I gave up on this occasion . 
Dear Marian ! Let Lady Glyde's maid come in , Louis . 
Stop ! Do her shoes creak ? I was obliged to ask the question . 
Creaking shoes invariably upset me for the day . 
I was resigned to see the Young Person , but I was NOT resigned to let the Young Person's shoes upset me . 
There is a limit even to my endurance . 
Louis affirmed distinctly that her shoes were to be depended upon . 
Let me do the girl justice . 
Her shoes did NOT creak . 
How is Miss Halcombe ? Very well , thank you , sir . 
And Lady Glyde ? I received no answer . 
The Young Person's face became more unfinished than ever , and I think she began to cry . 
I certainly saw something moist about her eyes . 
Tears or perspiration ? Louis is inclined to think , tears . 
He is in her class of life , and he ought to know best . 
Let us say , tears . 
Except when the refining process of Art judiciously removes from them all resemblance to Nature , I distinctly object to tears . 
Tears are scientifically described as a Secretion . 
I can understand that a secretion may be healthy or unhealthy , but I cannot see the interest of a secretion from a sentimental point of view . 
Perhaps my own secretions being all wrong together , I am a little prejudiced on the subject . 
I behaved , on this occasion , with all possible propriety and feeling . 
I closed my eyes and said to Louis Endeavour to ascertain what she means . 
Louis endeavoured , and the Young Person endeavoured . 
They succeeded in confusing each other to such an extent that I am bound in common gratitude to say , they really amused me . 
I think I shall send for them again when I am in low spirits . 
I have just mentioned this idea to Louis . 
Strange to say , it seems to make him uncomfortable . 
Poor devil ! Surely I am not expected to repeat my niece's maid's explanation of her tears , interpreted in the English of my Swiss valet ? The thing is manifestly impossible . 
I can give my own impressions and feelings perhaps . 
Will that do as well ? Please say , Yes . 
that her master had dismissed her from her mistress's service . 
On her dismissal , she had gone to the inn to sleep . 
Between six o'clock and seven Miss Halcombe had come to say good bye , and had given her two letters , one for me , and one for a gentleman in London . 
by the appearance in the inn parlour of her ladyship the Countess . 
I give my niece's maid's description of my sister's title with a sense of the highest relish . 
My poor dear sister is a tiresome woman who married a foreigner . 
To resume the door opened , her ladyship the Countess appeared in the parlour , and the Young Person was struck of a heap . 
Most remarkable ! I must really rest a little before I can get on any farther . 
Her ladyship the Countess No. I am able to proceed , but not to sit up . 
I will recline and dictate . 
Louis has a horrid accent , but he knows the language , and can write . 
The Young Person thereupon waited anxiously to hear what the messages were , but the Countess seemed disinclined to mention them until Fanny had had her tea . 
, and said , I am sure , my poor girl , you must want your tea . 
We can let the messages wait till afterwards . 
Come , come , if nothing else will put you at your ease , I'll make the tea and have a cup with you . 
I think those were the words , as reported excitably , in my presence , by the Young Person . 
The girl drank the tea , and according to her own account , solemnised the extraordinary occasion five minutes afterwards by fainting dead away for the first time in her life . 
Here again I use her own words . 
Louis thinks they were accompanied by an increased secretion of tears . 
The effort of listening being quite as much as I could manage , my eyes were closed . 
When she came to herself in half an hour's time she was on the sofa , and nobody was with her but the landlady . 
, and had found the two letters there quite safe , but strangely crumpled . 
She had been giddy in the night , but had got up well enough to travel in the morning . 
She had put the letter addressed to that obtrusive stranger , the gentleman in London into the post , and had now delivered the other letter into my hands as she was told . 
At this point Louis thinks the secretions appeared again . 
Perhaps they did , but it is of infinitely greater importance to mention that at this point also I lost my patience , opened my eyes , and interfered . 
What is the purport of all this ? I inquired . 
My niece's irrelevant maid stared , and stood speechless . 
Endeavour to explain , I said to my servant . 
In other words , he descended immediately into a bottomless pit of confusion , and the Young Person followed him down . 
I really don't know when I have been so amused . 
I left them at the bottom of the pit as long as they diverted me . 
When they ceased to divert me , I exerted my intelligence , and pulled them up again . 
It is unnecessary to say that my interference enabled me , in due course of time , to ascertain the purport of the Young Person's remarks . 
She was afraid the messages might have been of great importance to her mistress's interests . 
I make no apologies for this extremely prosy paragraph . 
I have been ordered to write it . 
Amusing perversity ! I should feel very much obliged to you , sir , if you would kindly tell me what I had better do , remarked the Young Person . 
Let things stop as they are , I said , adapting my language to my listener . 
I invariably let things stop as they are . 
Is that all ? If you think it would be a liberty in me , sir , to write , of course I wouldn't venture to do so . 
They invariably require to be helped out by their betters . 
I thought it high time to help the Young Person out . 
I did it with two judicious words Good morning . 
Something outside or inside this singular girl suddenly creaked . 
, says she creaked when she curtseyed . 
Was it her shoes , her stays , or her bones ? Louis thinks it was her stays . 
Most extraordinary ! As soon as I was left by myself I had a little nap I really wanted it . 
When I awoke again I noticed dear Marian's letter . 
If I had had the least idea of what it contained I should certainly not have attempted to open it . 
Being , unfortunately for myself , quite innocent of all suspicion , I read the letter . 
It immediately upset me for the day . 
I am , by nature , one of the most easy tempered creatures that ever lived I make allowances for everybody , and I take offence at nothing . 
But as I have before remarked , there are limits to my endurance . 
I laid down Marian's letter , and felt myself justly felt myself an injured man . 
I am about to make a remark . 
It is , of course , applicable to the very serious matter now under notice , or I should not allow it to appear in this place . 
Husbands and wives TALK of the cares of matrimony , and bachelors and spinsters BEAR them . 
I considerately remain single , and my poor dear brother Philip inconsiderately marries . 
What does he do when he dies ? He leaves his daughter to ME . 
She is a sweet girl she is also a dreadful responsibility . 
Why lay her on my shoulders ? Because I am bound , in the harmless character of a single man , to relieve my married connections of all their own troubles . 
I do my best with my brother's responsibility I marry my niece , with infinite fuss and difficulty , to the man her father wanted her to marry . 
She and her husband disagree , and unpleasant consequences follow . 
What does she do with those consequences ? She transfers them to ME . 
Why transfer them to ME ? Because I am bound , in the harmless character of a single man , to relieve my married connections of all their own troubles . 
Poor single people ! Poor human nature ! It is quite unnecessary to say that Marian's letter threatened me . 
All sorts of horrors were to fall on my devoted head if I hesitated to turn Limmeridge House into an asylum for my niece and her misfortunes . 
I did hesitate , nevertheless . 
I have mentioned that my usual course , hitherto , had been to submit to dear Marian , and save noise . 
But on this occasion , the consequences involved in her extremely inconsiderate proposal were of a nature to make me pause . 
that she would come here by herself , first , and talk the matter over with me . 
If she could answer my objections to my own perfect satisfaction , then I assured her that I would receive our sweet Laura with the greatest pleasure , but not otherwise . 
I felt , of course , at the time , that this temporising on my part would probably end in bringing Marian here in a state of virtuous indignation , banging doors . 
Accordingly I despatched the letter by return of post . 
It gained me time , at all events and , oh dear me ! what a point that was to begin with . 
it always takes me three days to get up again . 
I was very unreasonable I expected three days of quiet . 
Of course I didn't get them . 
The third day's post brought me a most impertinent letter from a person with whom I was totally unacquainted . 
On opening the envelope , he had discovered , to his astonishment , that it contained nothing but a blank sheet of notepaper . 
that he had at once written to Miss Halcombe , and had received no answer by return of post . 
What the deuce should I know about it ? Why alarm me as well as himself ? I wrote back to that effect . 
It was one of my keenest letters . 
I have produced nothing with a sharper epistolary edge to it since I tendered his dismissal in writing to that extremely troublesome person , Mr. Walter Hartright . 
My letter produced its effect . 
I heard nothing more from the lawyer . 
This perhaps was not altogether surprising . 
But it was certainly a remarkable circumstance that no second letter reached me from Marian , and that no warning signs appeared of her arrival . 
Her unexpected absence did me amazing good . 
that my married connections had made it up again . 
Five days of undisturbed tranquillity , of delicious single blessedness , quite restored me . 
I had just dismissed him to his workshop , and had just begun coquetting with my coins , when Louis suddenly made his appearance with a card in his hand . 
Another Young Person ? I said . 
In my state of health Young Persons disagree with me . 
It is a gentleman this time , sir A gentleman of course made a difference . 
I looked at the card . 
Gracious Heaven ! my tiresome sister's foreign husband , Count Fosco . 
Of course the Count had come to borrow money of me . 
Louis , I said , do you think he would go away if you gave him five shillings ? Louis looked quite shocked . 
He surprised me inexpressibly by declaring that my sister's foreign husband was dressed superbly , and looked the picture of prosperity . 
Under these circumstances my first impression altered to a certain extent . 
Did he mention his business ? I asked . 
Count Fosco said he had come here , sir , because Miss Halcombe was unable to leave Blackwater Park . 
Not exactly his own , as I had supposed , but dear Marian's . 
Oh dear ! Show him in , I said resignedly . 
The Count's first appearance really startled me . 
He was such an alarmingly large person that I quite trembled . 
I felt certain that he would shake the floor and knock down my art treasures . 
He did neither the one nor the other . 
He was refreshingly dressed in summer costume his manner was delightfully self possessed and quiet he had a charming smile . 
My first impression of him was highly favourable . 
It is not creditable to my penetration as the sequel will show to acknowledge this , but I am a naturally candid man , and I DO acknowledge it notwithstanding . 
Allow me to present myself , Mr. Fairlie , he said . 
I come from Blackwater Park , and I have the honour and the happiness of being Madame Fosco's husband . 
Let me take my first and last advantage of that circumstance by entreating you not to make a stranger of me . 
I beg you will not disturb yourself I beg you will not move . 
You are very good , I replied . 
I wish I was strong enough to get up . 
Charmed to see you at Limmeridge . 
I am afraid you are suffering to day , said the Count . 
As usual , I said . 
I am nothing but a bundle of nerves dressed up to look like a man . 
I have studied many subjects in my time , remarked this sympathetic person . 
Among others the inexhaustible subject of nerves . 
He walked to the window . 
Light stimulates , nourishes , preserves . 
You can no more do without it , Mr. Fairlie , than if you were a flower . 
Here , where you sit , I close the shutters to compose you . 
There , where you do NOT sit , I draw up the blind and let in the invigorating sun . 
Admit the light into your room if you cannot bear it on yourself . 
Light , sir , is the grand decree of Providence . 
You accept Providence with your own restrictions . 
Accept light on the same terms . 
I thought this very convincing and attentive . 
He had taken me in up to that point about the light , he had certainly taken me in . 
You see me confused , he said , returning to his place on my word of honour , Mr. Fairlie , you see me confused in your presence . 
Shocked to hear it , I am sure . 
Not being strong enough , I smiled my acknowledgments instead . 
It did just as well , we both understood one another . 
Pray follow my train of thought , continued the Count . 
I sit here , a man of refined sympathies myself , in the presence of another man of refined sympathies also . 
I am conscious of a terrible necessity for lacerating those sympathies by referring to domestic events of a very melancholy kind . 
What is the inevitable consequence ? I have done myself the honour of pointing it out to you already . 
Was it at this point that I began to suspect he was going to bore me ? I rather think it was . 
Is it absolutely necessary to refer to these unpleasant matters ? I inquired . 
In our homely English phrase , Count Fosco , won't they keep ? The Count , with the most alarming solemnity , sighed and shook his head . 
, and looked at me in an unpleasantly penetrating manner . 
My instincts told me that I had better close my eyes . 
Please break it gently , I pleaded . 
Anybody dead ? Dead ! cried the Count , with unnecessary foreign fierceness . 
Mr. Fairlie , your national composure terrifies me . 
In the name of Heaven , what have I said or done to make you think me the messenger of death ? Pray accept my apologies , I answered . 
You have said and done nothing . 
I make it a rule in these distressing cases always to anticipate the worst . 
It breaks the blow by meeting it half way , and so on . 
Inexpressibly relieved , I am sure , to hear that nobody is dead . 
Anybody ill ? I opened my eyes and looked at him . 
Anybody ill ? I repeated , observing that my national composure still appeared to affect him . 
That is part of my bad news , Mr. Fairlie . 
Grieved , I am sure . 
Which of them is it ? To my profound sorrow , Miss Halcombe . 
However , I said yes , in justice to myself . 
It was so very uncharacteristic of such a robust person as dear Marian to be ill , that I could only suppose she had met with an accident . 
A horse , or a false step on the stairs , or something of that sort . 
Is it serious ? I asked . 
Serious beyond a doubt , he replied . 
Dangerous I hope and trust not . 
Miss Halcombe unhappily exposed herself to be wetted through by a heavy rain . 
The cold that followed was of an aggravated kind , and it has now brought with it the worst consequence fever . 
Good God ! I said . 
Is it infectious ? Not at present , he answered , with detestable composure . 
It may turn to infection but no such deplorable complication had taken place when I left Blackwater Park . 
Accept his assurances ! I never was farther from accepting anything in my life . 
I would not have believed him on his oath . 
He was too yellow to be believed . 
He looked like a walking West Indian epidemic . 
He was big enough to carry typhus by the ton , and to dye the very carpet he walked on with scarlet fever . 
In certain emergencies my mind is remarkably soon made up . 
I instantly determined to get rid of him . 
You will kindly excuse an invalid , I said but long conferences of any kind invariably upset me . 
On the contrary , it only settled him in his chair . 
He became additionally solemn , and dignified , and confidential . 
He held up two of his horrid fingers and gave me another of his unpleasantly penetrating looks . 
What was I to do ? I was not strong enough to quarrel with him . 
Conceive my situation , if you please . 
Is language adequate to describe it ? I think not . 
The objects of my visit , he went on , quite irrepressibly , are numbered on my fingers . 
First , I come to bear my testimony , with profound sorrow , to the lamentable disagreements between Sir Percival and Lady Glyde . 
I am Sir Percival's oldest friend I am related to Lady Glyde by marriage I am an eye witness of all that has happened at Blackwater Park . 
In those three capacities I speak with authority , with confidence , with honourable regret . 
Sir , I inform you , as the head of Lady Glyde's family , that Miss Halcombe has exaggerated nothing in the letter which she wrote to your address . 
I affirm that the remedy which that admirable lady has proposed is the only remedy that will spare you the horrors of public scandal . 
A temporary separation between husband and wife is the one peaceable solution of this difficulty . 
, the cause of irritation while she remains under her husband's roof . 
No other house can receive her with propriety but yours . 
I invite you to open it . 
I tried to put the point forcibly , just as I have put it here . 
Follow my thought once more , if you please , he resumed . 
My first object you have heard . 
My second object in coming to this house is to do what Miss Halcombe's illness has prevented her from doing for herself . 
My large experience is consulted on all difficult matters at Blackwater Park , and my friendly advice was requested on the interesting subject of your letter to Miss Halcombe . 
I understood at once for my sympathies are your sympathies why you wished to see her here before you pledged yourself to inviting Lady Glyde . 
You are most right , sir , in hesitating to receive the wife until you are quite certain that the husband will not exert his authority to reclaim her . 
I also agree that such delicate explanations as this difficulty involves are not explanations which can be properly disposed of by writing only . 
is the proof that I speak sincerely . 
Offer him his freedom by means of the absence of Lady Glyde . 
I promise you he will take his freedom , and go back to the Continent at the earliest moment when he can get away . 
Is this clear to you as crystal ? Yes , it is . 
Have you questions to address to me ? Be it so , I am here to answer . 
Ask , Mr. Fairlie oblige me by asking to your heart's content . 
Many thanks , I replied . 
In my state of health I must take things for granted . 
Allow me to do so on this occasion . 
We quite understand each other . 
Much obliged , I am sure , for your kind interference . 
If I ever get better , and ever have a second opportunity of improving our acquaintance He got up . 
I thought he was going . 
I ask permission at parting to impress on you an urgent necessity . 
It is this , sir . 
You must not think of waiting till Miss Halcombe recovers before you receive Lady Glyde . 
Her position with her husband grows more and more deplorable and dangerous every day . 
With all my soul , I advise you to remove the serious responsibility of delay from your own shoulders by writing to Lady Glyde to come here at once . 
Do your affectionate , your honourable , your inevitable duty , and whatever happens in the future , no one can lay the blame on you . 
I speak from my large experience I offer my friendly advice . 
It is perfectly incredible , but quite true , that my face did not appear to produce the slightest impression on him . 
Born without nerves evidently born without nerves . 
You hesitate ? he said . 
Mr. Fairlie ! I understand that hesitation . 
In one breath , I grant both objections in another breath , I remove them . 
Follow me , if you please , for the last time . 
It was my intention , when I returned to England with Sir Percival , to settle myself in the neighbourhood of London . 
That purpose has just been happily accomplished . 
I have taken , for six months , a little furnished house in the quarter called St . 
Be so obliging as to keep this fact in your mind , and observe the programme I now propose . 
receives her at the carriage door . 
I cordially invite you , sir , to second my efforts in the sacred interests of the family . 
, to that injured and unfortunate lady whose cause I plead to day . 
He waved his horrid hand at me he struck his infectious breast he addressed me oratorically , as if I was laid up in the House of Commons . 
It was high time to take a desperate course of some sort . 
It was also high time to send for Louis , and adopt the precaution of fumigating the room . 
In this trying emergency an idea occurred to me an inestimable idea which , so to speak , killed two intrusive birds with one stone . 
I determined to get rid of the Count's tiresome eloquence , and of Lady Glyde's tiresome troubles , by complying with this odious foreigner's request , and writing the letter at once . 
There was not the least danger of the invitation being accepted , for there was not the least chance that Laura would consent to leave Blackwater Park while Marian was lying there ill . 
How this charmingly convenient obstacle could have escaped the officious penetration of the Count , it was impossible to conceive but it HAD escaped him . 
Dearest Laura , Please come , whenever you like . 
Break the journey by sleeping in London at your aunt's house . 
Grieved to hear of dear Marian's illness . 
I handed these lines , at arm's length , to the Count I sank back in my chair I said , Excuse me I am entirely prostrated I can do no more . 
Will you rest and lunch downstairs ? Love to all , and sympathy , and so on . 
He made another speech the man was absolutely inexhaustible . 
I closed my eyes I endeavoured to hear as little as possible . 
In spite of my endeavours I was obliged to hear a great deal . 
I heard his sympathetic voice travelling away from me by degrees but , large as he was , I never heard him . 
He had the negative merit of being absolutely noiseless . 
I don't know when he opened the door , or when he shut it . 
I ventured to make use of my eyes again , after an interval of silence and he was gone . 
I rang for Louis , and retired to my bathroom . 
Tepid water , strengthened with aromatic vinegar , for myself , and copious fumigation for my study , were the obvious precautions to take , and of course I adopted them . 
I rejoice to say they proved successful . 
I enjoyed my customary siesta . 
I awoke moist and cool . 
My first inquiries were for the Count . 
Had we really got rid of him ? Yes he had gone away by the afternoon train . 
Had he lunched , and if so , upon what ? Entirely upon fruit tart and cream . 
What a man ! What a digestion ! Am I expected to say anything more ? I believe not . 
I believe I have reached the limits assigned to me . 
The shocking circumstances which happened at a later period did not , I am thankful to say , happen in my presence . 
I do beg and entreat that nobody will be so very unfeeling as to lay any part of the blame of those circumstances on me . 
I did everything for the best . 
I am not answerable for a deplorable calamity , which it was quite impossible to foresee . 
I am shattered by it I have suffered under it , as nobody else has suffered . 
, thinks I shall never get over it . 
He sees me dictating at this moment , with my handkerchief to my eyes . 
I wish to mention , in justice to myself , that it was not my fault , and that I am quite exhausted and heartbroken . 
I I am asked to state plainly what I know of the progress of Miss Halcombe's illness and of the circumstances under which Lady Glyde left Blackwater Park for London . 
The reason given for making this demand on me is , that my testimony is wanted in the interests of truth . 
, I have been taught to place the claims of truth above all other considerations . 
I therefore comply with a request which I might otherwise , through reluctance to connect myself with distressing family affairs , have hesitated to grant . 
The breakfast hour was late at Blackwater Park sometimes as late as ten , never earlier than half past nine . 
did not make her appearance at the table . 
After the family had waited a quarter of an hour , the upper housemaid was sent to see after her , and came running out of the room dreadfully frightened . 
I met the servant on the stairs , and went at once to Miss Halcombe to see what was the matter . 
The poor lady was incapable of telling me . 
She was walking about her room with a pen in her hand , quite light headed , in a state of burning fever . 
was the first to come in from her own bedroom . 
She was so dreadfully alarmed and distressed that she was quite useless . 
The Count Fosco , and his lady , who came upstairs immediately afterwards , were both most serviceable and kind . 
Her ladyship assisted me to get Miss Halcombe to her bed . 
We applied the lotion , but we could not get her to take the mixture . 
Sir Percival undertook to send for the doctor . 
He despatched a groom , on horseback , for the nearest medical man , Mr. Dawson , of Oak Lodge . 
Mr. Dawson arrived in less than an hour's time . 
He was a respectable elderly man , well known all round the country , and we were much alarmed when we found that he considered the case to be a very serious one . 
His lordship the Count affably entered into conversation with Mr. Dawson , and gave his opinions with a judicious freedom . 
The Count , with truly Christian meekness of temper , smiled and left the room . 
Why he should have gone there , I cannot say . 
But he did go , remaining away the whole day till seven o'clock , which was dinner time . 
Perhaps he wished to set the example of keeping the house as quiet as possible . 
It was entirely in his character to do so . 
He was a most considerate nobleman . 
Miss Halcombe passed a very bad night , the fever coming and going , and getting worse towards the morning instead of better . 
No nurse fit to wait on her being at hand in the neighbourhood , her ladyship the Countess and myself undertook the duty , relieving each other . 
Lady Glyde , most unwisely , insisted on sitting up with us . 
She was much too nervous and too delicate in health to bear the anxiety of Miss Halcombe's illness calmly . 
She only did herself harm , without being of the least real assistance . 
A more gentle and affectionate lady never lived but she cried , and she was frightened , two weaknesses which made her entirely unfit to be present in a sick room . 
Sir Percival and the Count came in the morning to make their inquiries . 
appeared much confused and unsettled in his mind . 
His lordship testified , on the contrary , a becoming composure and interest . 
Let us keep the house quiet , he said . 
Let us not smoke indoors , my friend , now Miss Halcombe is ill . 
You go your way , and I will go mine . 
When I study I like to be alone . 
Good morning , Mrs. Michelson . 
Sir Percival was not civil enough perhaps I ought in justice to say , not composed enough to take leave of me with the same polite attention . 
He had the manners of a true nobleman he was considerate towards every one . 
who attended on Lady Glyde was not beneath his notice . 
was most kindly anxious to know what had become of her , where she was to go the day she left Blackwater Park , and so on . 
It is in such little delicate attentions that the advantages of aristocratic birth always show themselves . 
I advance no opinions I offer facts only . 
My endeavour through life is to judge not that I be not judged . 
One of my beloved husband's finest sermons was on that text . 
There was no improvement in Miss Halcombe , and the second night was even worse than the first . 
Mr. Dawson was constant in his attendance . 
The practical duties of nursing were still divided between the Countess and myself , Lady Glyde persisting in sitting up with us , though we both entreated her to take some rest . 
My place is by Marian's bedside , was her only answer . 
Whether I am ill , or well , nothing will induce me to lose sight of her . 
Towards midday I went downstairs to attend to some of my regular duties . 
entering the hall , to all appearance in the highest good spirits . 
At the same time Sir Percival turned his head , observed that I was approaching the stairs , and looked at me in the most rudely angry manner possible . 
Come in here and tell me about it , he said to the Count . 
Whenever there are women in a house they're always sure to be going up or down stairs . 
My dear Percival , observed his lordship kindly , Mrs. Michelson has duties . 
Pray recognise her admirable performance of them as sincerely as I do ! How is the sufferer , Mrs. Michelson ? No better , my lord , I regret to say . 
Sad most sad ! remarked the Count . 
You look fatigued , Mrs. Michelson . 
It is certainly time you and my wife had some help in nursing . 
I think I may be the means of offering you that help . 
Circumstances have happened which will oblige Madame Fosco to travel to London either to morrow or the day after . 
The woman is known to my wife as a person to be trusted . 
Before she comes here say nothing about her , if you please , to the doctor , because he will look with an evil eye on any nurse of my providing . 
When she appears in this house she will speak for herself , and Mr. Dawson will be obliged to acknowledge that there is no excuse for not employing her . 
Lady Glyde will say the same . 
Pray present my best respects and sympathies to Lady Glyde . 
I expressed my grateful acknowledgments for his lordship's kind consideration . 
to come into the library , and not to keep him waiting there any longer . 
We are poor erring creatures , and however well established a woman's principles may be she cannot always keep on her guard against the temptation to exercise an idle curiosity . 
I did not suspect the Count of any impropriety I knew his moral character too well . 
The only question I asked myself was Had he found her ? To resume . 
The night passed as usual without producing any change for the better in Miss Halcombe . 
The next day she seemed to improve a little . 
The only circumstance of any importance that happened in the course of the day was the occurrence of another unpleasant meeting between the doctor and the Count . 
His lordship , on returning from the station , stepped up into Miss Halcombe's sitting room to make his inquiries . 
I went out from the bedroom to speak to him , Mr. Dawson and Lady Glyde being both with the patient at the time . 
The Count asked me many questions about the treatment and the symptoms . 
I informed him that the treatment was of the kind described as saline , and that the symptoms , between the attacks of fever , were certainly those of increasing weakness and exhaustion . 
Just as I was mentioning these last particulars , Mr. Dawson came out from the bedroom . 
You still persist in your lowering treatment of this case of fever ? continued his lordship . 
I persist in the treatment which is justified by my own professional experience , said Mr. Dawson . 
Permit me to put one question to you on the vast subject of professional experience , observed the Count . 
I presume to offer no more advice I only presume to make an inquiry . 
You live at some distance , sir , from the gigantic centres of scientific activity London and Paris . 
You are not a professional man , and I beg to decline answering you . 
I was instructed that this person's name was Mrs. Rubelle . 
Her personal appearance , and her imperfect English when she spoke , informed me that she was a foreigner . 
I have always cultivated a feeling of humane indulgence for foreigners . 
They do not possess our blessings and advantages , and they are , for the most part , brought up in the blind errors of Popery . 
, to do as I would be done by . 
I should not like these things to be said of me , and therefore it is my duty not to say them of Mrs. Rubelle . 
, although I myself politely invited her to that meal in my own room . 
, it was arranged that Mrs. Rubelle should not enter on her duties until she had been seen and approved by the doctor the next morning . 
I sat up that night . 
Lady Glyde appeared to be very unwilling that the new nurse should be employed to attend on Miss Halcombe . 
Such want of liberality towards a foreigner on the part of a lady of her education and refinement surprised me . 
I ventured to say , My lady , we must all remember not to be hasty in our judgments on our inferiors especially when they come from foreign parts . 
Lady Glyde did not appear to attend to me . 
She only sighed , and kissed Miss Halcombe's hand as it lay on the counterpane . 
Scarcely a judicious proceeding in a sick room , with a patient whom it was highly desirable not to excite . 
But poor Lady Glyde knew nothing of nursing nothing whatever , I am sorry to say . 
The next morning Mrs. Rubelle was sent to the sitting room , to be approved by the doctor on his way through to the bedroom . 
She did not appear to see it in that light . 
Some people might have thought such conduct suggestive of brazen assurance . 
I beg to say that I more liberally set it down to extraordinary strength of mind . 
Instead of the doctor coming up to us , I was sent for to see the doctor . 
I thought this change of affairs rather odd , but Mrs. Rubelle did not appear to be affected by it in any way . 
I left her still calmly looking out of the window , and still silently enjoying the country air . 
Mr. Dawson was waiting for me by himself in the breakfast room . 
About this new nurse , Mrs. Michelson , said the doctor . 
Yes , sir ? I find that she has been brought here from London by the wife of that fat old foreigner , who is always trying to interfere with me . 
Mrs. Michelson , the fat old foreigner is a quack . 
I was naturally shocked at it . 
Are you aware , sir , I said , that you are talking of a nobleman ? Pooh ! He isn't the first quack with a handle to his name . 
Very well , Mrs. Michelson , call him what you like , and let us get back to the nurse . 
I have been objecting to her already . 
Without having seen her , sir ? Yes , without having seen her . 
She may be the best nurse in existence , but she is not a nurse of my providing . 
I have put that objection to Sir Percival , as the master of the house . 
This proposal being one which I have some right to make , as medical attendant , Sir Percival has consented to it . 
on my patient , and a nurse who is brought here by his wife may be a little too willing to help him . 
You understand ? Very well , then , we may go upstairs . 
Is the nurse there ? I'll say a word to her before she goes into the sick room . 
We found Mrs. Rubelle still enjoying herself at the window . 
When I introduced her to Mr. Dawson , neither the doctor's doubtful looks nor the doctor's searching questions appeared to confuse her in the least . 
This was doubtless the result of strength of mind , as I said before , and not of brazen assurance , by any means . 
We all went into the bedroom . 
Her ladyship seemed startled and annoyed by the appearance of the strange nurse . 
No one said anything , for fear of rousing Miss Halcombe , who was still slumbering , except the doctor , who whispered a question about the night . 
I softly answered , Much as usual , and then Mr. Dawson went out . 
Lady Glyde followed him , I suppose to speak about Mrs. Rubelle . 
For my own part , I had made up my mind already that this quiet foreign person would keep her situation . 
She had all her wits about her , and she certainly understood her business . 
So far , I could hardly have done much better by the bedside myself . 
Remembering Mr. Dawson's caution to me , I subjected Mrs. Rubelle to a severe scrutiny at certain intervals for the next three or four days . 
I over and over again entered the room softly and suddenly , but I never found her out in any suspicious action . 
Lady Glyde , who watched her as attentively as I did , discovered nothing either . 
I never detected a sign of the medicine bottles being tampered with , I never saw Mrs. Rubelle say a word to the Count , or the Count to her . 
She managed Miss Halcombe with unquestionable care and discretion . 
Mrs. Rubelle never disturbed her in the first case , and never startled her in the second , by appearing too suddenly at the bedside in the character of a stranger . 
Trust Mr. Dawson , he said , for a few days more , if you please . 
But if there is not some change for the better in that time , send for advice from London , which this mule of a doctor must accept in spite of himself . 
Offend Mr. Dawson , and save Miss Halcombe . 
I say this seriously , on my word of honour and from the bottom of my heart . 
His lordship spoke with extreme feeling and kindness . 
But poor Lady Glyde's nerves were so completely broken down that she seemed quite frightened at him . 
She trembled from head to foot , and allowed him to take his leave without uttering a word on her side . 
With all respect to Mr. Dawson , I answered , in your ladyship's place I should remember the Count's advice . 
Lady Glyde turned away from me suddenly , with an appearance of despair , for which I was quite unable to account . 
HIS advice ! she said to herself . 
God help us HIS advice ! The Count was away from Blackwater Park , as nearly as I remember , a week . 
Sir Percival seemed to feel the loss of his lordship in various ways , and appeared also , I thought , much depressed and altered by the sickness and sorrow in the house . 
Occasionally he was so very restless that I could not help noticing it , coming and going , and wandering here and there and everywhere in the grounds . 
I think his heart was much softened . 
I seldom find myself mistaken on a point of this sort , having had experience to guide me in my happy married days . 
A stranger might almost have supposed that they were bent , now they were left together alone , on actually avoiding one another . 
This , of course , could not be . 
make the remark , in my hearing , that his master had put himself on half rations of food and on a double allowance of drink . 
I attach no importance to such an insolent observation as this on the part of a servant . 
I reprobated it at the time , and I wish to be understood as reprobating it once more on this occasion . 
In the course of the next few days Miss Halcombe did certainly seem to all of us to be mending a little . 
Our faith in Mr. Dawson revived . 
The only person among us who did not appear to be relieved by these words was the Countess . 
She said to me privately , that she could not feel easy about Miss Halcombe on Mr. Dawson's authority , and that she should wait anxiously for her husband's opinion on his return . 
That return , his letters informed her , would take place in three days' time . 
The Count and Countess corresponded regularly every morning during his lordship's absence . 
They were in that respect , as in all others , a pattern to married people . 
On the evening of the third day I noticed a change in Miss Halcombe , which caused me serious apprehension . 
Mrs. Rubelle noticed it too . 
We said nothing on the subject to Lady Glyde , who was then lying asleep , completely overpowered by exhaustion , on the sofa in the sitting room . 
Mr. Dawson did not pay his evening visit till later than usual . 
As soon as he set eyes on his patient I saw his face alter . 
He tried to hide it , but he looked both confused and alarmed . 
Has the fever turned to infection ? I whispered to him . 
I am afraid it has , he answered we shall know better to morrow morning . 
By Mr. Dawson's own directions Lady Glyde was kept in ignorance of this change for the worse . 
He himself absolutely forbade her , on account of her health , to join us in the bed room that night . 
She tried to resist there was a sad scene but he had his medical authority to support him , and he carried his point . 
Half an hour after the messenger had gone the Count returned to Blackwater Park . 
The Countess , on her own responsibility , immediately brought him in to see the patient . 
There was no impropriety that I could discover in her taking this course . 
His lordship was a married man , he was old enough to be Miss Halcombe's father , and he saw her in the presence of a female relative , Lady Glyde's aunt . 
Mr. Dawson nevertheless protested against his presence in the room , but I could plainly remark the doctor was too much alarmed to make any serious resistance on this occasion . 
The poor suffering lady was past knowing any one about her . 
She seemed to take her friends for enemies . 
His lordship looked next at me . 
When did the change happen ? he asked . 
I told him the time . 
Has Lady Glyde been in the room since ? I replied that she had not . 
The doctor had absolutely forbidden her to come into the room on the evening before , and had repeated the order again in the morning . 
Have you and Mrs. Rubelle been made aware of the full extent of the mischief ? was his next question . 
We were aware , I answered , that the malady was considered infectious . 
He stopped me before I could add anything more . 
It is typhus fever , he said . 
In the minute that passed , while these questions and answers were going on , Mr. Dawson recovered himself , and addressed the Count with his customary firmness . 
It is NOT typhus fever , he remarked sharply . 
I protest against this intrusion , sir . 
No one has a right to put questions here but me . 
I have done my duty to the best of my ability The Count interrupted him not by words , but only by pointing to the bed . 
Mr. Dawson seemed to feel that silent contradiction to his assertion of his own ability , and to grow only the more angry under it . 
I say I have done my duty , he reiterated . 
A physician has been sent for from London . 
I will consult on the nature of the fever with him , and with no one else . 
I insist on your leaving the room . 
I entered this room , sir , in the sacred interests of humanity , said the Count . 
And in the same interests , if the coming of the physician is delayed , I will enter it again . 
I warn you once more that the fever has turned to typhus , and that your treatment is responsible for this lamentable change . 
If that unhappy lady dies , I will give my testimony in a court of justice that your ignorance and obstinacy have been the cause of her death . 
Before Mr. Dawson could answer , before the Count could leave us , the door was opened from the sitting room , and we saw Lady Glyde on the threshold . 
I MUST and WILL come in , she said , with extraordinary firmness . 
Instead of stopping her , the Count moved into the sitting room , and made way for her to go in . 
To my astonishment Mr. Dawson showed more presence of mind . 
He stopped her ladyship at the first step she took towards the bedside . 
I am sincerely sorry , I am sincerely grieved , he said . 
The fever may , I fear , be infectious . 
Until I am certain that it is not , I entreat you to keep out of the room . 
She struggled for a moment , then suddenly dropped her arms and sank forward . 
The Countess and I took her from the doctor and carried her into her own room . 
The Count preceded us , and waited in the passage till I came out and told him that we had recovered her from the swoon . 
I went back to the doctor to tell him , by Lady Glyde's desire , that she insisted on speaking to him immediately . 
He withdrew at once to quiet her ladyship's agitation , and to assure her of the physician's arrival in the course of a few hours . 
Those hours passed very slowly . 
Sir Percival and the Count were together downstairs , and sent up from time to time to make their inquiries . 
At last , between five and six o'clock , to our great relief , the physician came . 
He was a younger man than Mr. Dawson , very serious and very decided . 
What is your opinion of the fever ? he inquired . 
Typhus , replied the physician Typhus fever beyond all doubt . 
That quiet foreign person , Mrs. Rubelle , crossed her thin brown hands in front of her , and looked at me with a very significant smile . 
The Count himself could hardly have appeared more gratified if he had been present in the room and had heard the confirmation of his own opinion . 
He would offer no opinion on Miss Halcombe's chances of recovery he said it was impossible at that stage of the illness to pronounce one way or the other . 
The five days passed anxiously . 
Countess Fosco and myself took it by turns to relieve Mrs. Rubelle , Miss Halcombe's condition growing worse and worse , and requiring our utmost care and attention . 
It was a terribly trying time . 
rallied in the most extraordinary manner , and showed a firmness and determination for which I should myself never have given her credit . 
Mr. Dawson very unwillingly made the concession required of him I think he saw that it was hopeless to dispute with her . 
She came in every day , and she self denyingly kept her promise . 
to see how she suffered under these circumstances , that I must beg not to dwell on this part of the subject any longer . 
It is more agreeable to me to mention that no fresh disputes took place between Mr. Dawson and the Count . 
His lordship made all his inquiries by deputy , and remained continually in company with Sir Percival downstairs . 
On the fifth day the physician came again and gave us a little hope . 
The interval passed as before except that the Count went to London again one morning and returned at night . 
On the tenth day it pleased a merciful Providence to relieve our household from all further anxiety and alarm . 
The physician positively assured us that Miss Halcombe was out of danger . 
She wants no doctor now all she requires is careful watching and nursing for some time to come , and that I see she has . 
Those were his own words . 
than I ever remember to have derived from it before . 
The effect of the good news on poor Lady Glyde was , I grieve to say , quite overpowering . 
She was too weak to bear the violent reaction , and in another day or two she sank into a state of debility and depression which obliged her to keep her room . 
Rest and quiet , and change of air afterwards , were the best remedies which Mr. Dawson could suggest for her benefit . 
to withdraw from his attendance at Blackwater Park if the Count's interference was not peremptorily suppressed from that moment . 
We were now , therefore , left without the attendance of a medical man . 
The matter did not seem to strike Sir Percival in that light . 
He said it would be time enough to send for another doctor if Miss Halcombe showed any signs of a relapse . 
There was much that was reasonable , no doubt , in these considerations , but they left me a little anxious nevertheless . 
Nor was I quite satisfied in my own mind of the propriety of our concealing the doctor's absence as we did from Lady Glyde . 
It was a merciful deception , I admit for she was in no state to bear any fresh anxieties . 
But still it was a deception , and , as such , to a person of my principles , at best a doubtful proceeding . 
A second perplexing circumstance which happened on the same day , and which took me completely by surprise , added greatly to the sense of uneasiness that was now weighing on my mind . 
I was sent for to see Sir Percival in the library . 
The Count , who was with him when I went in , immediately rose and left us alone together . 
In plain words , I have reasons for wishing to break up my establishment immediately at this place leaving you in charge , of course , as usual . 
As soon as Lady Glyde and Miss Halcombe can travel they must both have change of air . 
I don't blame you , but my expenses here are a great deal too heavy . 
In short , I shall sell the horses , and get rid of all the servants at once . 
I never do things by halves , as you know , and I mean to have the house clear of a pack of useless people by this time to morrow . 
I listened to him , perfectly aghast with astonishment . 
Do you mean , Sir Percival , that I am to dismiss the indoor servants under my charge without the usual month's warning ? I asked . 
We may all be out of the house before another month , and I am not going to leave the servants here in idleness , with no master to wait on . 
Who is to do the cooking , Sir Percival , while you are still staying here ? Margaret Porcher can roast and boil keep her . 
My weekly expenses must and shall be lowered immediately . 
I don't send for you to make objections , Mrs. Michelson I send for you to carry out my plans of economy . 
Dismiss the whole lazy pack of indoor servants to morrow , except Porcher . 
She is as strong as a horse and we'll make her work like a horse . 
You will excuse me for reminding you , Sir Percival , that if the servants go to morrow they must have a month's wages in lieu of a month's warning . 
Let them ! A month's wages saves a month's waste and gluttony in the servants' hall . 
This last remark conveyed an aspersion of the most offensive kind on my management . 
I had too much self respect to defend myself under so gross an imputation . 
It would have lowered me in my own estimation to have permitted the interview to continue a moment longer . 
After that last remark , Sir Percival , I have nothing more to say . 
Your directions shall be attended to . 
Pronouncing those words , I bowed my head with the most distant respect , and went out of the room . 
The next day the servants left in a body . 
Sir Percival himself dismissed the grooms and stablemen , sending them , with all the horses but one , to London . 
My mind was ill at ease . 
I wished the poor ladies both well again , and I wished myself away from Blackwater Park . 
It is true that my absence was for a temporary period only , but the coincidence was , in my opinion , not the less remarkable on that account . 
My departure took place under the following circumstances A day or two after the servants all left I was again sent for to see Sir Percival . 
It cost me a struggle with that fallen nature , which we all share in common , before I could suppress my feelings . 
Being accustomed to self discipline , I accomplished the sacrifice . 
I found Sir Percival and Count Fosco sitting together again . 
On this occasion his lordship remained present at the interview , and assisted in the development of Sir Percival's views . 
The subject to which they now requested my attention related to the healthy change of air by which we all hoped that Miss Halcombe and Lady Glyde might soon be enabled to profit . 
at Limmeridge House , Cumberland . 
, that they would benefit by a short residence first in the genial climate of Torquay . 
It was impossible for a person in my situation to meet any proposal , made in these terms , with a positive objection . 
I could only venture to represent the serious inconvenience of my leaving Blackwater Park in the extraordinary absence of all the indoor servants , with the one exception of Margaret Porcher . 
But Sir Percival and his lordship declared that they were both willing to put up with inconvenience for the sake of the invalids . 
I next respectfully suggested writing to an agent at Torquay , but I was met here by being reminded of the imprudence of taking lodgings without first seeing them . 
In short , it was clearly shown me that if I did not undertake the errand , no one else could be trusted with it . 
Under these circumstances , I could only inform Sir Percival that my services were at the disposal of Miss Halcombe and Lady Glyde . 
did not appear to feel them . 
It was not for me to dispute the question . 
Before I left I took care to satisfy myself that Miss Halcombe was going on favourably . 
There was a painful expression of anxiety in her face which made me fear that her mind , on first recovering itself , was not at ease . 
I left her in charge of Mrs. Rubelle , who was still as quietly independent of every one else in the house as ever . 
Sir Percival and the Count were walking on the road to the lodge as I was driven by in the chaise . 
I bowed to them and quitted the house , with not a living soul left in the servants' offices but Margaret Porcher . 
Every one must feel what I have felt myself since that time , that these circumstances were more than unusual they were ! almost suspicious . 
Let me , however , say again that it was impossible for me , in my dependent position , to act otherwise than I did . 
The result of my errand at Torquay was exactly what I had foreseen . 
I accordingly returned to Blackwater Park , and informed Sir Percival , who met me at the door , that my journey had been taken in vain . 
The Count and Countess Fosco had left Blackwater Park for their new residence in St . 
I was not made aware of the motive for this sudden departure I was only told that the Count had been very particular in leaving his kind compliments to me . 
The answer really shocked me there was such a glaring impropriety in permitting an under housemaid to fill the place of confidential attendant on Lady Glyde . 
I went upstairs at once , and met Margaret on the bedroom landing . 
, her mistress having sufficiently recovered that morning to be able to leave her bed . 
I asked next after Miss Halcombe , but I was answered in a I slouching , sulky way , which left me no wiser than I was before . 
I did not choose to repeat the question , and perhaps provoke an impertinent reply . 
It was in every respect more becoming to a person in my position to present myself immediately in Lady Glyde's room . 
I found that her ladyship had certainly gained in health during the last few days . 
She had been made a little anxious that morning about Miss Halcombe , through having received no news of her from any one . 
I thought this seemed to imply a blamable want of attention on the part of Mrs. Rubelle , but I said nothing , and remained with Lady Glyde to assist her to dress . 
When she was ready we both left the room together to go to Miss Halcombe . 
We were stopped in the passage by the appearance of Sir Percival . 
He looked as if he had been purposely waiting there to see us . 
Where are you going ? he said to Lady Glyde . 
To Marian's room , she answered . 
It may spare you a disappointment , remarked Sir Percival , if I tell you at once that you will not find her there . 
Not find her there ! No. She left the house yesterday morning with Fosco and his wife . 
Lady Glyde was not strong enough to bear the surprise of this extraordinary statement . 
She turned fearfully pale , and leaned back against the wall , looking at her husband in dead silence . 
I was so astonished myself that I hardly knew what to say . 
I asked Sir Percival if he really meant that Miss Halcombe had left Blackwater Park . 
I certainly mean it , he answered . 
In her state , Sir Percival ! Without mentioning her intentions to Lady Glyde ! Before he could reply her ladyship recovered herself a little and spoke . 
Impossible ! she cried out in a loud , frightened manner , taking a step or two forward from the wall . 
Where was the doctor ? where was Mr. Dawson when Marian went away ? Mr. Dawson wasn't wanted , and wasn't here , said Sir Percival . 
He left of his own accord , which is enough of itself to show that she was strong enough to travel . 
How you stare ! If you don't believe she has gone , look for yourself . 
Open her room door , and all the other room doors if you like . 
She took him at his word , and I followed her . 
There was no one in Miss Halcombe's room but Margaret Porcher , who was busy setting it to rights . 
There was no one in the spare rooms or the dressing rooms when we looked into them afterwards . 
Sir Percival still waited for us in the passage . 
What does it mean , Sir Percival ? I insist I beg and pray you will tell me what it means . 
To London ! Yes on her way to Limmeridge . 
Lady Glyde turned and appealed to me . 
You saw Miss Halcombe last , she said . 
Tell me plainly , Mrs. Michelson , did you think she looked fit to travel ? Not in MY opinion , your ladyship . 
Sir Percival , on his side , instantly turned and appealed to me also . 
He addressed her ladyship again the moment I offered that reply . 
Set one of Mrs. Michelson's opinions fairly against the other , he said , and try to be reasonable about a perfectly plain matter . 
They took a whole carriage yesterday , and made a bed for her on the seat in case she felt tired . 
Because your uncle won't receive you till he has seen your sister first , he replied . 
Have you forgotten the letter he wrote to her at the beginning of her illness ? It was shown to you , you read it yourself , and you ought to remember it . 
Poor Lady Glyde's eyes filled with tears . 
Marian never left me before , she said , without bidding me good bye . 
She would have bid you good bye this time , returned Sir Percival , if she had not been afraid of herself and of you . 
She knew you would try to stop her , she knew you would distress her by crying . 
Do you want to make any more objections ? If you do , you must come downstairs and ask questions in the dining room . 
I want a glass of wine . 
His manner all through this strange conversation had been very unlike what it usually was . 
He seemed to be almost as nervous and fluttered , every now and then , as his lady herself . 
I should never have supposed that his health had been so delicate , or his composure so easy to upset . 
I tried to prevail on Lady Glyde to go back to her room , but it was useless . 
She stopped in the passage , with the look of a woman whose mind was panic stricken . 
Something has happened to my sister ! she said . 
Remember , my lady , what surprising energy there is in Miss Halcombe , I suggested . 
She might well make an effort which other ladies in her situation would be unfit for . 
I hope and believe there is nothing wrong I do indeed . 
I must follow Marian , said her ladyship , with the same panic stricken look . 
I must go where she has gone , I must see that she is alive and well with my own eyes . 
Come ! come down with me to Sir Percival . 
I hesitated , fearing that my presence might be considered an intrusion . 
I attempted to represent this to her ladyship , but she was deaf to me . 
Sir Percival was sitting at the table with a decanter of wine before him . 
He raised the glass to his lips as we went in and drained it at a draught . 
Seeing that he looked at me angrily when he put it down again , I attempted to make some apology for my accidental presence in the room . 
Do you suppose there are any secrets going on here ? he broke out suddenly there are none there is nothing underhand , nothing kept from you or from any one . 
After speaking those strange words loudly and sternly , he filled himself another glass of wine and asked Lady Glyde what she wanted of him . 
If my sister is fit to travel I am fit to travel said her ladyship , with more firmness than she had yet shown . 
I come to beg you will make allowances for my anxiety about Marian , and let me follow her at once by the afternoon train . 
You must wait till to morrow , replied Sir Percival , and then if you don't hear to the contrary you can go . 
I don't suppose you are at all likely to hear to the contrary , so I shall write to Fosco by to night's post . 
He said those last words holding his glass up to the light , and looking at the wine in it instead of at Lady Glyde . 
Indeed he never once looked at her throughout the conversation . 
Such a singular want of good breeding in a gentleman of his rank impressed me , I own , very painfully . 
Why should you write to Count Fosco ? she asked , in extreme surprise . 
To tell him to expect you by the midday train , said Sir Percival . 
He will meet you at the station when you get to London , and take you on to sleep at your aunt's in St . 
Lady Glyde's hand began to tremble violently round my arm why I could not imagine . 
There is no necessity for Count Fosco to meet me , she said . 
I would rather not stay in London to sleep . 
You can't take the whole journey to Cumberland in one day . 
You must rest a night in London and I don't choose you to go by yourself to an hotel . 
Fosco made the offer to your uncle to give you house room on the way down , and your uncle has accepted it . 
Here ! here is a letter from him addressed to yourself . 
I ought to have sent it up this morning , but I forgot . 
Read it and see what Mr. Fairlie himself says to you . 
Lady Glyde looked at the letter for a moment and then placed it in my hands . 
Read it , she said faintly . 
I don't know what is the matter with me . 
I can't read it myself . 
It was a note of only four lines so short and so careless that it quite struck me . 
If I remember correctly it contained no more than these words Dearest Laura , Please come whenever you like . 
Break the journey by sleeping at your aunt's house . 
Grieved to hear of dear Marian's illness . 
Affectionately yours , Frederick Fairlie . 
My sight seems to be failing me , he muttered to himself , in an odd , muffled voice . 
He slowly set the glass up again , refilled it , and drained it once more at a draught . 
I began to fear , from his look and manner , that the wine was getting into his head . 
Pray don't write to Count Fosco , persisted Lady Glyde , more earnestly than ever . 
Why not , I should like to know ? cried Sir Percival , with a sudden burst of anger that startled us both . 
Where can you stay more properly in London than at the place your uncle himself chooses for you at your aunt's house ? Ask Mrs. Michelson . 
The arrangement proposed was so unquestionably the right and the proper one , that I could make no possible objection to it . 
Much as I sympathised with Lady Glyde in other respects , I could not sympathise with her in her unjust prejudices against Count Fosco . 
I never before met with any lady of her rank and station who was so lamentably narrow minded on the subject of foreigners . 
Neither her uncle's note nor Sir Percival's increasing impatience seemed to have the least effect on her . 
She still objected to staying a night in London , she still implored her husband not to write to the Count . 
Drop it ! said Sir Percival , rudely turning his back on us . 
If you haven't sense enough to know what is best for yourself other people must know it foe you . 
The arrangement is made and there is an end of it . 
She slept there last night to break the journey , and you are to follow her example , and do what your uncle tells you . 
You are to sleep at Fosco's to morrow night , as your sister did , to break the journey . 
She consented to leave the room in a weary , absent manner . 
As soon as we were safe upstairs again , I did all I could to compose her ladyship's spirits . 
I reminded her that Mr. Fairlie's letters to Miss Halcombe and to herself did certainly sanction , and even render necessary , sooner or later , the course that had been taken . 
I thought it my duty to protest against Lady Glyde's unfavourable opinion of his lordship , and I did so , with becoming forbearance and respect . 
Your ladyship will pardon my freedom , I remarked , in conclusion , but it is said , 'by their fruits ye shall know them . 
I am sure the Count's constant kindness and constant attention , from the very beginning of Miss Halcombe's illness , merit our best confidence and esteem . 
Even his lordship's serious misunderstanding with Mr. Dawson was entirely attributable to his anxiety on Miss Halcombe's account . 
What misunderstanding ? inquired her ladyship , with a look of sudden interest . 
from the knowledge of Lady Glyde . 
Her ladyship started up , with every appearance of being additionally agitated and alarmed by what I had told her . 
Worse ! worse than I thought ! she said , walking about the room , in a bewildered manner . 
The Count knew Mr. Dawson would never consent to Marian's taking a journey he purposely insulted the doctor to get him out of the house . 
Oh , my lady ! my lady ! I remonstrated . 
Put my misery of suspense about Marian gives me the courage to follow her anywhere , to follow her even into Count Fosco's house . 
I thought it right , at this point , to mention that Miss Halcombe had already gone on to Cumberland , according to Sir Percival's account of the matter . 
I am afraid to believe it ! answered her ladyship . 
I am afraid she is still in that man's house . 
If I am wrong , if she has really gone on to Limmeridge , I am resolved I will not sleep to morrow night under Count Fosco's roof . 
My dearest friend in the world , next to my sister , lives near London . 
You have heard me , you have heard Miss Halcombe , speak of Mrs. Vesey ? I mean to write , and propose to sleep at her house . 
I have reasons for not trusting the post bag downstairs . 
Will you keep my secret , and help me in this ? it is the last favour , perhaps , that I shall ever ask of you . 
I hesitated , I thought it all very strange , I almost feared that her ladyship's mind had been a little affected by recent anxiety and suffering . 
At my own risk , however , I ended by giving my consent . 
If the letter had been addressed to a stranger , or to any one but a lady so well known to me by report as Mrs. Vesey , I might have refused . 
The letter was written and given into my hands . 
I myself put it into the post box in the village that evening . 
We saw nothing more of Sir Percival for the rest of the day . 
I slept , by Lady Glyde's own desire , in the next room to hers , with the door open between us . 
There was something so strange and dreadful in the loneliness and emptiness of the house , that I was glad , on my side , to have a companion near me . 
Her sleep was sadly disturbed when she at last went to bed she cried out in it several times , once so loud that she woke herself . 
Whatever her dreams were , she did not think fit to communicate them to me . 
Perhaps , in my situation , I had no right to expect that she should do so . 
I was sorry for her , I was indeed heartily sorry for her all the same . 
The next day was fine and sunny . 
He informed Lady Glyde that he was obliged to go out , but added that he hoped to be back before she left . 
If any unforeseen accident delayed him , I was to accompany her to the station , and to take special care that she was in time for the train . 
Sir Percival communicated these directions very hastily walking here and there about the room all the time . 
Her ladyship looked attentively after him wherever he went . 
He never once looked at her in return . 
She only spoke when he had done , and then she stopped him as he approached the door , by holding out her hand . 
I shall see you no more , she said , in a very marked manner . 
This is our parting our parting , it may be for ever . 
I shall come back , he said , and made for the door , as hastily as if his wife's farewell words had frightened him out of the room . 
I had never liked Sir Percival , but the manner in which he left Lady Glyde made me feel ashamed of having eaten his bread and lived in his service . 
At the time named the chaise drew up at the gates . 
Her ladyship was right Sir Percival never came back . 
I waited for him till the last moment , and waited in vain . 
No positive responsibility lay on my shoulders , and yet I did not feel easy in my mind . 
She had made me feel almost as anxious and as uncertain about Miss Halcombe as she felt herself . 
I presumed to ask her to write me a line , if all went well in London . 
She answered , Most willingly , Mrs. Michelson . 
We all have our crosses to bear , my lady , I said , seeing her silent and thoughtful , after she had promised to write . 
She made no reply she seemed to be too much wrapped up in her own thoughts to attend to me . 
I fear your ladyship rested badly last night , I remarked , after waiting a little . 
Yes , she said , I was terribly disturbed by dreams . 
Indeed , my lady ? I thought she was going to tell me her dreams , but no , when she spoke next it was only to ask a question . 
You posted the letter to Mrs. Vesey with your own hands ? Yes , my lady . 
Did Sir Percival say , yesterday , that Count Fosco was to meet me at the terminus in London ? He did , my lady . 
She sighed heavily when I answered that last question , and said no more . 
We arrived at the station , with hardly two minutes to spare . 
managed about the luggage , while I took the ticket . 
The whistle of the train was sounding when I joined her ladyship on the platform . 
She looked very strangely , and pressed her hand over her heart , as if some sudden pain or fright had overcome her at that moment . 
I wish you were going with me ! she said , catching eagerly at my arm when I gave her the ticket . 
As it was , her wishes , expressed at the last moment only , were expressed too late for me to comply with them . 
She seemed to understand this herself before I could explain it , and did not repeat her desire to have me for a travelling companion . 
The train drew up at the platform . 
She gave the gardener a present for his children , and took my hand , in her simple hearty manner , before she got into the carriage . 
You have been very kind to me and to my sister , she said kind when we were both friendless . 
I shall remember you gratefully , as long as I live to remember any one . 
She shook her head , and shuddered as she settled herself in the carriage . 
The guard closed the door . 
Do you believe in dreams ? she whispered to me at the window . 
My dreams , last night , were dreams I have never had before . 
The terror of them is hanging over me still . 
The whistle sounded before I could answer , and the train moved . 
Her pale quiet face looked at me for the last time looked sorrowfully and solemnly from the window . 
She waved her hand , and I saw her no more . 
For the first time in my life I found my attention wandering over those pious and cheering words . 
Sir Percival had not yet returned , to my knowledge , so I could feel no hesitation about showing myself in the grounds . 
On turning the corner of the house , and gaining a view of the garden , I was startled by seeing a stranger walking in it . 
The stranger was a woman she was lounging along the path with her back to me , and was gathering the flowers . 
As I approached she heard me , and turned round . 
My blood curdled in my veins . 
The strange woman in the garden was Mrs. Rubelle ! I could neither move nor speak . 
She came up to me , as composedly as ever , with her flowers in her hand . 
What is the matter , ma'am ? she said quietly . 
You here ! I gasped out . 
Not gone to London ! Not gone to Cumberland ! Mrs. Rubelle smelt at her flowers with a smile of malicious pity . 
Certainly not , she said . 
I have never left Blackwater Park . 
I summoned breath enough and courage enough for another question . 
Where is Miss Halcombe ? Mrs. Rubelle fairly laughed at me this time , and replied in these words Miss Halcombe , ma'am , has not left Blackwater Park either . 
When I heard that astounding answer , all my thoughts were startled back on the instant to my parting with Lady Glyde . 
I can hardly say I reproached myself , but at that moment I think I would have given many a year's hard savings to have known four hours earlier what I knew now . 
Mrs. Rubelle waited , quietly arranging her nosegay , as if she expected me to say something . 
I thought of Lady Glyde's worn out energies and weakly health , and I trembled for the time when the shock of the discovery that I had made would fall on her . 
For a minute or more my fears for the poor ladies silenced me . 
At the end of that time Mrs. Rubelle looked up sideways from her flowers , and said , Here is Sir Percival , ma'am , returned from his ride . 
I saw him as soon as she did . 
He came towards us , slashing viciously at the flowers with his riding whip . 
Well , Mrs. Michelson , he said , you have found it out at last , have you ? I made no reply . 
He turned to Mrs. Rubelle . 
When did you show yourself in the garden ? I showed myself about half an hour ago , sir . 
You said I might take my liberty again as soon as Lady Glyde had gone away to London . 
I don't blame you I only asked the question . 
He waited a moment , and then addressed himself once more to me . 
You can't believe it , can you ? he said mockingly . 
Here ! come along and see for yourself . 
He led the way round to the front of the house . 
I followed him , and Mrs. Rubelle followed me . 
After passing through the iron gates he stopped , and pointed with his whip to the disused middle wing of the building . 
Look up at the first floor . 
You know the old Elizabethan bedrooms ? Miss Halcombe is snug and safe in one of the best of them at this moment . 
take Mrs. Michelson in , and let her own eyes satisfy her that there is no deception this time . 
The tone in which he spoke to me , and the minute or two that had passed since we left the garden , helped me to recover my spirits a little . 
What I might have done at this critical moment , if all my life had been passed in service , I cannot say . 
As it was , possessing the feelings , the principles , and the bringing up of a lady , I could not hesitate about the right course to pursue . 
I must beg permission , Sir Percival , to speak a few words to you in private , I said . 
Having done so , I shall be ready to proceed with this person to Miss Halcombe's room . 
Mrs. Rubelle , whom I had indicated by a slight turn of my head , insolently sniffed at her nosegay and walked away , with great deliberation , towards the house door . 
Well , said Sir Percival sharply , what is it now ? I wish to mention , sir , that I am desirous of resigning the situation I now hold at Blackwater Park . 
That was literally how I put it . 
I was resolved that the first words spoken in his presence should be words which expressed my intention to leave his service . 
He eyed me with one of his blackest looks , and thrust his hands savagely into the pockets of his riding coat . 
I desire to give no offence . 
I merely wish to say that I do not feel it consistent with my duty to Lady Glyde and to myself to remain any longer in your service . 
Is it consistent with your duty to me to stand there , casting suspicion on me to my face ? he broke out in his most violent manner . 
I see what you're driving at . 
You have taken your own mean , underhand view of an innocent deception practised on Lady Glyde for her own good . 
She has been deceived in her own interests and I don't care who knows it . 
Go , if you like there are plenty of housekeepers as good as you to be had for the asking . 
Go when you please but take care how you spread scandals about me and my affairs when you're out of my service . 
Remember the doctor's own orders that Lady Glyde was to have a change of air at the earliest possible opportunity . 
I naturally kept these thoughts to myself , and said nothing more to irritate him but I was not the less resolved to persist in my purpose . 
A soft answer turneth away wrath , and I suppressed my own feelings accordingly when it was my turn to reply . 
While I am in your service , Sir Percival , I said , I hope I know my duty well enough not to inquire into your motives . 
Don't suppose I am anxious to keep you don't suppose I care about your leaving the house . 
I am perfectly fair and open in this matter , from first to last . 
When do you want to go ? I should wish to leave at your earliest convenience , Sir Percival . 
My convenience has nothing to do with it . 
I shall be out of the house for good and all to morrow morning , and I can settle your accounts to night . 
If you want to study anybody's convenience , it had better be Miss Halcombe's . 
Mrs. Rubelle's time is up to day , and she has reasons for wishing to be in London to night . 
If you go at once , Miss Halcombe won't have a soul left here to look after her . 
I hope it is unnecessary for me to say that I was quite incapable of deserting Miss Halcombe in such an emergency as had now befallen Lady Glyde and herself . 
It was settled that I should give Sir Percival's solicitor a week's notice before I left , and that he was to undertake the necessary arrangements for appointing my successor . 
The matter was discussed in very few words . 
At its conclusion Sir Percival abruptly turned on his heel , and left me free to join Mrs. Rubelle . 
That singular foreign person had been sitting composedly on the doorstep all this time , waiting till I could follow her to Miss Halcombe's room . 
I had hardly walked half way towards the house when Sir Percival , who had withdrawn in the opposite direction , suddenly stopped and called me back . 
Why are you leaving my service ? he asked . 
The question was so extraordinary , after what had just passed between us , that I hardly knew what to say in answer to it . 
Mind ! I don't know why you are going , he went on . 
You must give a reason for leaving me , I suppose , when you get another situation . 
If people apply for your character , that's your reason , stated by yourself . 
You go in consequence of the breaking up of the family . 
He turned away again before I could say another word , and walked out rapidly into the grounds . 
His manner was as strange as his language . 
I acknowledge he alarmed me . 
Even the patience of Mrs. Rubelle was getting exhausted , when I joined her at the house door . 
At last ! she said , with a shrug of her lean foreign shoulders . 
The rooms themselves I knew well , having entered them myself on various occasions from the other side of the house . 
Before I went in I thought it desirable to make her understand that her attendance had ceased . 
Accordingly , I told her in plain words that the charge of the sick lady henceforth devolved entirely on myself . 
I am glad to hear it , ma'am , said Mrs. Rubelle . 
I want to go very much . 
Do you leave to day ? I asked , to make sure of her . 
Now that you have taken charge , ma'am , I leave in half an hour's time . 
Sir Percival has kindly placed at my disposition the gardener , and the chaise , whenever I want them . 
I shall want them in half an hour's time to go to the station . 
I am packed up in anticipation already . 
I wish you good day , ma'am . 
She dropped a brisk curtsey , and walked back along the gallery , humming a little tune , and keeping time to it cheerfully with the nosegay in her hand . 
I am sincerely thankful to say that was the last I saw of Mrs. Rubelle . 
When I went into the room Miss Halcombe was asleep . 
I looked at her anxiously , as she lay in the dismal , high , old fashioned bed . 
She was certainly not in any respect altered for the worse since I had seen her last . 
She had not been neglected , I am bound to admit , in any way that I could perceive . 
was opened to let in the fresh air , and all that could be done to make the place comfortable had been done . 
The whole cruelty of Sir Percival's deception had fallen on poor Lady Glyde . 
The only ill usage which either he or Mrs. Rubelle had inflicted on Miss Halcombe consisted , so far as I could see , in the first offence of hiding her away . 
I stole back , leaving the sick lady still peacefully asleep , to give the gardener instructions about bringing the doctor . 
I knew he would come on my account , and I knew he would remain when he found Count Fosco had left the house . 
In due course of time the gardener returned , and said that he had driven round by Mr. Dawson's residence , after leaving Mrs. Rubelle at the station . 
The doctor sent me word that he was poorly in health himself , but that he would call , if possible , the next morning . 
He came punctually , and I found cause to be thankful that I had adopted the precaution of calling him in . 
The gardener immediately ran down to him , and I closed the door of communication , to keep the alarm , if possible , from reaching Miss Halcombe's ears . 
It was full half an hour before the gardener came back . 
The gardener , on approaching him , had been hunted out , with oaths and threats , to get the horse and chaise ready instantly . 
Sir Percival had stopped there , and had afterwards left by the train for what destination the man could not tell . 
He and I have not met since he drove away like an escaped criminal from his own house , and it is my fervent hope and prayer that we may never meet again . 
My own part of this sad family story is now drawing to an end . 
She was in a deep sleep at the time , whether naturally or artificially produced she could not say . 
, the secret transfer of Miss Halcombe from one part of the house to the other was no doubt easily performed . 
She had declined to answer the questions which Miss Halcombe naturally put , but had not , in other respects , treated her with unkindness or neglect . 
The disgrace of lending herself to a vile deception is the only disgrace with which I can conscientiously charge Mrs. Rubelle . 
of the effect produced on Miss Halcombe by the news of Lady Glyde's departure , or by the far more melancholy tidings which reached us only too soon afterwards at Blackwater Park . 
It was a sad time , a time which it afflicts me to think of or to write of now . 
The precious blessings of religious consolation which I endeavoured to convey were long in reaching Miss Halcombe's heart , but I hope and believe they came home to her at last . 
I never left her till her strength was restored . 
The train which took me away from that miserable house was the train which took her away also . 
We parted very mournfully in London . 
I remained with a relative at Islington , and she went on to Mr. Fairlie's house in Cumberland . 
I have only a few lines more to write before I close this painful statement . 
They are dictated by a sense of duty . 
In the first place , I wish to record my own personal conviction that no blame whatever , in connection with the events which I have now related , attaches to Count Fosco . 
I am informed that a dreadful suspicion has been raised , and that some very serious constructions are placed upon his lordship's conduct . 
My persuasion of the Count's innocence remains , however , quite unshaken . 
If he assisted Sir Percival in sending me to Torquay , he assisted under a delusion , for which , as a foreigner and a stranger , he was not to blame . 
I protest , in the interests of morality , against blame being gratuitously and wantonly attached to the proceedings of the Count . 
In the second place , I desire to express my regret at my own inability to remember the precise day on which Lady Glyde left Blackwater Park for London . 
I am told that it is of the last importance to ascertain the exact date of that lamentable journey , and I have anxiously taxed my memory to recall it . 
The effort has been in vain . 
I can only remember now that it was towards the latter part of July . 
We all know the difficulty , after a lapse of time , of fixing precisely on a past date unless it has been previously written down . 
That difficulty is greatly increased in my case by the alarming and confusing events which took place about the period of Lady Glyde's departure . 
I heartily wish I had made a memorandum at the time . 
THE STORY CONTINUED IN SEVERAL NARRATIVES . 
THE NARRATIVE OF HESTER PINHORN , COOK IN THE SERVICE OF COUNT FOSCO Taken down from her own statement I am sorry to say that I have never learnt to read or write . 
I have been a hard working woman all my life , and have kept a good character . 
I know that it is a sin and wickedness to say the thing which is not , and I will truly beware of doing so on this occasion . 
, and I heard of a situation as plain cook , at Number Five , Forest Road , St . 
I took the place on trial . 
My master's name was Fosco . 
My mistress was an English lady . 
He was Count and she was Countess . 
There was a girl to do housemaid's work when I got there . 
She was not over clean or tidy , but there was no harm in her . 
I and she were the only servants in the house . 
Our master and mistress came after we got in and as soon as they did come we were told , downstairs , that company was expected from the country . 
The company was my mistress's niece , and the back bedroom on the first floor was got ready for her . 
was in poor health , and that I must be particular in my cooking accordingly . 
She was to come that day , as well as I can remember but whatever you do , don't trust my memory in the matter . 
I am sorry to say it's no use asking me about days of the month , and such like . 
Except Sundays , half my time I take no heed of them , being a hard working woman and no scholar . 
All I know is Lady Glyde came , and when she did come , a fine fright she gave us all surely . 
I don't know how master brought her to the house , being hard at work at the time . 
But he did bring her in the afternoon , I think , and the housemaid opened the door to them , and showed them into the parlour . 
She had been taken with a sudden fright , my mistress said , and master he told us she was in a fit of convulsions . 
I ran out , knowing the neighbourhood a little better than the rest of them , to fetch the nearest doctor's help . 
The nearest help was at Goodricke's and Garth's , who worked together as partners , and had a good name and connection , as I have heard , all round St . 
Mr. Goodricke was in , and he came back with me directly . 
It was some time before he could make himself of much use . 
The poor unfortunate lady fell out of one fit into another , and went on so till she was quite wearied out , and as helpless as a new born babe . 
We then got her to bed . 
Mr. Goodricke went away to his house for medicine , and came back again in a quarter of an hour or less . 
My mistress says to him , Is it heart disease ? And he says , Yes , heart disease of a most dangerous kind . 
He told her exactly what he thought was the matter , which I was not clever enough to understand . 
But I know this , he ended by saying that he was afraid neither his help nor any other doctor's help was likely to be of much service . 
My mistress took this ill news more quietly than my master . 
He was a big , fat , odd sort of elderly man , who kept birds and white mice , and spoke to them as if they were so many Christian children . 
He seemed terribly cut up by what had happened . 
Ah ! poor Lady Glyde ! poor dear Lady Glyde ! he says , and went stalking about , wringing his fat hands more like a play actor than a gentleman . 
For one question my mistress asked the doctor about the lady's chances of getting round , he asked a good fifty at least . 
As if THAT did any good . 
I think he must have been , at times , a little soft in his head . 
But he was not a bad master he had a monstrous civil tongue of his own , and a jolly , easy , coaxing way with him . 
I liked him a deal better than my mistress . 
She was a hard one , if ever there was a hard one yet . 
Towards night time the lady roused up a little . 
She had been so wearied out , before that , by the convulsions , that she never stirred hand or foot , or spoke a word to anybody . 
She moved in the bed now , and stared about her at the room and us in it . 
She must have been a nice looking lady when well , with light hair , and blue eyes and all that . 
Her rest was troubled at night at least so I heard from my mistress , who sat up alone with her . 
I only went in once before going to bed to see if I could be of any use , and then she was talking to herself in a confused , rambling manner . 
She seemed to want sadly to speak to somebody who was absent from her somewhere . 
I couldn't catch the name the first time , and the second time master knocked at the door , with his regular mouthful of questions , and another of his trumpery nosegays . 
When I went in early the next morning , the lady was clean worn out again , and lay in a kind of faint sleep . 
Mr. Goodricke brought his partner , Mr. Garth , with him to advise . 
They said she must not be disturbed out of her rest on any account . 
I remember my mistress said Yes to that last question . 
And Mr. Goodricke looked at Mr. Garth , and shook his head and Mr. Garth looked at Mr. Goodricke , and shook his head . 
They seemed to think that the distress might have something to do with the mischief at the lady's heart . 
She was but a frail thing to look at , poor creature ! Very little strength at any time , I should say very little strength . 
Later on the same morning , when she woke , the lady took a sudden turn , and got seemingly a great deal better . 
I was not let in again to see her , no more was the housemaid , for the reason that she was not to be disturbed by strangers . 
What I heard of her being better was through my master . 
Good Mrs. Cook , says he , Lady Glyde is better . 
My mind is more easy than it was , and I am going out to stretch my big legs with a sunny little summer walk . 
He was past sixty , and fond of pastry . 
Just think of that ! The doctor came again in the forenoon , and saw for himself that Lady Glyde had woke up better . 
She did not seem to want to talk whenever I saw her , except overnight , when I couldn't make out what she was saying she seemed too much worn down . 
Mr. Goodricke was not nearly in such good spirits about her as master . 
He said nothing when he came downstairs , except that he would call again at five o'clock . 
I got on my bonnet and shawl , when , as good luck would have it , the doctor himself came to the house for his promised visit . 
I let him in , and went upstairs along with him . 
The doctor went up to the bed , and stooped down over the sick lady . 
He looked very serious , all on a sudden , at the sight of her , and put his hand on her heart . 
My mistress stared hard in Mr. Goodricke's face . 
Not dead ! says she , whispering , and turning all of a tremble from head to foot . 
Yes , says the doctor , very quiet and grave . 
I was afraid it would happen suddenly when I examined her heart yesterday . 
My mistress stepped back from the bedside while he was speaking , and trembled and trembled again . 
Dead ! she whispers to herself dead so suddenly ! dead so soon ! What will the Count say ? Mr. Goodricke advised her to go downstairs , and quiet herself a little . 
You have been sitting up all night , says he , and your nerves are shaken . 
This person , says he , meaning me , this person will stay in the room till I can send for the necessary assistance . 
My mistress did as he told her . 
I must prepare the Count , she says . 
I must carefully prepare the Count . 
And so she left us , shaking from head to foot , and went out . 
Your master is a foreigner , says Mr. Goodricke , when my mistress had left us . 
Does he understand about registering the death ? I can't rightly tell , sir , says I , but I should think not . 
I shall pass the district office in half an hour's time , and I can easily look in . 
Mention , if you please , that I will do so . 
Yes , sir , says I , with thanks , I'm sure , for your kindness in thinking of it . 
You don't mind staying here till I can send you the proper person ? says he . 
No , sir , says I I'll stay with the poor lady till then . 
He said , Good day , and went out . 
I stopped by the bedside from that time till the time when Mr. Goodricke sent the person in , as he had promised . 
She was , by name , Jane Gould . 
I considered her to be a respectable looking woman . 
She made no remark , except to say that she understood what was wanted of her , and that she had winded a many of them in her time . 
How master bore the news , when he first heard it , is more than I can tell , not having been present . 
When I did see him he looked awfully overcome by it , to be sure . 
He sat quiet in a corner , with his fat hands hanging over his thick knees , and his head down , and his eyes looking at nothing . 
He seemed not so much sorry , as scared and dazed like , by what had happened . 
My mistress managed all that was to be done about the funeral . 
It must have cost a sight of money the coffin , in particular , being most beautiful . 
The dead lady's husband was away , as we heard , in foreign parts . 
that she should be buried there , in the same grave along with her mother . 
Everything was done handsomely , in respect of the funeral , I say again , and master went down to attend the burying in the country himself . 
He looked grand in his deep mourning , with his big solemn face , and his slow walk , and his broad hatband that he did ! In conclusion . 
That neither I nor my fellow servant ever saw my master give Lady Glyde any medicine himself . 
That he was never , to my knowledge and belief , left alone in the room with Lady Glyde . 
That I am not able to say what caused the sudden fright , which my mistress informed me had seized the lady on her first coming into the house . 
The cause was never explained , either to me or to my fellow servant . 
The above statement has been read over in my presence . 
I have nothing to add to it , or to take away from it . 
I say , on my oath as a Christian woman , this is the truth . 
HESTER PINHORN , Her Mark . 
THE NARRATIVE OF THE DOCTOR To the Registrar of the Sub District in which the undermentioned death took place . 
John's Wood , and that the cause of her death was Aneurism . 
Duration of disease not known . 
M. R. C. S. Eng . 
, L. S. A. Address , Croydon Gardens St . 
I found the body in charge of the servant , Hester Pinhorn . 
I remained with it , and prepared it at the proper time for the grave . 
It was laid in the coffin in my presence , and I afterwards saw the coffin screwed down previous to its removal . 
When that had been done , and not before , I received what was due to me and left the house . 
I refer persons who may wish to investigate my character to Mr. Goodricke . 
He will bear witness that I can be trusted to tell the truth . 
THE NARRATIVE OF THE TOMBSTONE Sacred to the Memory of Laura , Lady Glyde , wife of Sir Percival Glyde , Bart . 
, of Blackwater Park , Hampshire , and daughter of the late Philip Fairlie , Esq . 
, of Limmeridge House , in this parish . 
Born March th , married December nd , died July th , . 
THE NARRATIVE OF WALTER HARTRIGHT Early in the summer of I and my surviving companions left the wilds and forests of Central America for home . 
Arrived at the coast , we took ship there for England . 
The vessel was wrecked in the Gulf of Mexico I was among the few saved from the sea . 
It was my third escape from peril of death . 
Death by disease , death by the Indians , death by drowning all three had approached me all three had passed me by . 
The survivors of the wreck were rescued by an American vessel bound for Liverpool . 
The ship reached her port on the thirteenth day of October . 
We landed late in the afternoon , and I arrived in London the same night . 
These pages are not the record of my wanderings and my dangers away from home . 
The motives which led me from my country and my friends to a new world of adventure and peril are known . 
From that self imposed exile I came back , as I had hoped , prayed , believed I should come back a changed man . 
In the waters of a new life I had tempered my nature afresh . 
In the stern school of extremity and danger my will had learnt to be strong , my heart to be resolute , my mind to rely on itself . 
I had gone out to fly from my own future . 
I came back to face it , as a man should . 
To face it with that inevitable suppression of myself which I knew it would demand from me . 
I had parted with the worst bitterness of the past , but not with my heart's remembrance of the sorrow and the tenderness of that memorable time . 
I had not ceased to feel the one irreparable disappointment of my life I had only learnt to bear it . 
Laura Fairlie was in all my thoughts when the ship bore me away , and I looked my last at England . 
Laura Fairlie was in all my thoughts when the ship brought me back , and the morning light showed the friendly shore in view . 
My pen traces the old letters as my heart goes back to the old love . 
I write of her as Laura Fairlie still . 
It is hard to think of her , it is hard to speak of her , by her husband's name . 
There are no more words of explanation to add on my appearance for the second time in these pages . 
This narrative , if I have the strength and the courage to write it , may now go on . 
My first anxieties and first hopes when the morning came centred in my mother and my sister . 
Early in the morning I sent a letter to the Hampstead Cottage , and followed it myself in an hour's time . 
We had no concealments from each other . 
She knew how the hope of my life had been wrecked she knew why I had left her . 
But when I looked in my mother's face I lost courage to put the question even in that guarded form . 
I could only say , doubtingly and restrainedly You have something to tell me . 
My sister , who had been sitting opposite to us , rose suddenly without a word of explanation rose and left the room . 
My mother moved closer to me on the sofa and put her arms round my neck . 
Those fond arms trembled the tears flowed fast over the faithful loving face . 
Walter ! she whispered , my own darling ! my heart is heavy for you . 
Oh , my son ! my son ! try to remember that I am still left ! My head sank on her bosom . 
She had said all in saying those words . 
It was the morning of the third day since my return the morning of the sixteenth of October . 
I had remained with them at the cottage I had tried hard not to embitter the happiness of my return to THEM as it was embittered to ME . 
I had done all man could to rise after the shock , and accept my life resignedly to let my great sorrow come in tenderness to my heart , and not in despair . 
It was useless and hopeless . 
No tears soothed my aching eyes , no relief came to me from my sister's sympathy or my mother's love . 
On that third morning I opened my heart to them . 
At last the words passed my lips which I had longed to speak on the day when my mother told me of her death . 
Let me go away alone for a little while , I said . 
I departed on my journey my journey to the grave of Laura Fairlie . 
It was a quiet autumn afternoon when I stopped at the solitary station , and set forth alone on foot by the well remembered road . 
The waning sun was shining faintly through thin white clouds the air was warm and still the peacefulness of the lonely country was overshadowed and saddened by the influence of the falling year . 
The chances and changes , the wanderings and dangers of months and months past , all shrank and shrivelled to nothing in my mind . 
It was like yesterday since my feet had last trodden the fragrant heathy ground . 
There was the marble cross , fair and white , at the head of the tomb the tomb that now rose over mother and daughter alike . 
I crossed once more the low stone stile , and bared my head as I touched the sacred ground . 
Sacred to gentleness and goodness , sacred to reverence and grief . 
I stopped before the pedestal from which the cross rose . 
I tried to read them . 
I did read as far as the name . 
I went round to the other side of the grave , where there was nothing to read , nothing of earthly vileness to force its way between her spirit and mine . 
I knelt down by the tomb . 
I laid my hands , I laid my head on the broad white stone , and closed my weary eyes on the earth around , on the light above . 
I let her come back to me . 
My love ! my love ! Time had flowed on , and silence had fallen like thick night over its course . 
The first sound that came after the heavenly peace rustled faintly like a passing breath of air over the grass of the burial ground . 
I heard it nearing me slowly , until it came changed to my ear came like footsteps moving onward then stopped . 
The sunset was near at hand . 
The clouds had parted the slanting light fell mellow over the hills . 
The last of the day was cold and clear and still in the quiet valley of the dead . 
Beyond me , in the burial ground , standing together in the cold clearness of the lower light , I saw two women . 
They were looking towards the tomb , looking towards me . 
They came a little on , and stopped again . 
Their veils were down , and hid their faces from me . 
When they stopped , one of them raised her veil . 
In the still evening light I saw the face of Marian Halcombe . 
Changed , changed as if years had passed over it ! The eyes large and wild , and looking at me with a strange terror in them . 
The face worn and wasted piteously . 
Pain and fear and grief written on her as with a brand . 
I took one step towards her from the grave . 
She never moved she never spoke . 
The veiled woman with her cried out faintly . 
The springs of my life fell low , and the shuddering of an unutterable dread crept over me from head to foot . 
The woman with the veiled face moved away from her companion , and came towards me slowly . 
Left by herself , standing by herself , Marian Halcombe spoke . 
It was the voice that I remembered the voice not changed , like the frightened eyes and the wasted face . 
My dream ! my dream ! I heard her say those words softly in the awful silence . 
She sank on her knees , and raised her clasped hands to heaven . 
Father ! help him in his hour of need . 
The woman came on , slowly and silently came on . 
I looked at her at her , and at none other , from that moment . 
The voice that was praying for me faltered and sank low then rose on a sudden , and called affrightedly , called despairingly to me to come away . 
But the veiled woman had possession of me , body and soul . 
She stopped on one side of the grave . 
We stood face to face with the tombstone between us . 
She was close to the inscription on the side of the pedestal . 
Her gown touched the black letters . 
The voice came nearer , and rose and rose more passionately still . 
Hide your face ! don't look at her ! Oh , for God's sake , spare him The woman lifted her veil . 
Sacred to the Memory of Laura , Lady Glyde Laura , Lady Glyde , was standing by the inscription , and was looking at me over the grave . 
The Second Epoch of the Story closes here . 
THE THIRD EPOCH THE STORY CONTINUED BY WALTER HARTRIGHT . 
I I open a new page . 
I advance my narrative by one week . 
The history of the interval which I thus pass over must remain unrecorded . 
My heart turns faint , my mind sinks in darkness and confusion when I think of it . 
This must not be , if I who write am to guide , as I ought , you who read . 
This must not be , if the clue that leads through the windings of the story is to remain from end to end untangled in my hands . 
I left my narrative in the quiet shadow of Limmeridge church I resume it , one week later , in the stir and turmoil of a London street . 
The street is in a populous and a poor neighbourhood . 
I have taken those two floors in an assumed name . 
On the upper floor I live , with a room to work in , a room to sleep in . 
On the lower floor , under the same assumed name , two women live , who are described as my sisters . 
I get my bread by drawing and engraving on wood for the cheap periodicals . 
My sisters are supposed to help me by taking in a little needlework . 
We are numbered no longer with the people whose lives are open and known . 
I am an obscure , unnoticed man , without patron or friend to help me . 
Marian Halcombe is nothing now but my eldest sister , who provides for our household wants by the toil of her own hands . 
We two , in the estimation of others , are at once the dupes and the agents of a daring imposture . 
We are supposed to be the accomplices of mad Anne Catherick , who claims the name , the place , and the living personality of dead Lady Glyde . 
That is the changed aspect in which we three must appear , henceforth , in this narrative , for many and many a page to come . 
And yet alive ! Alive in poverty and in hiding . 
Alive , with the poor drawing master to fight her battle , and to win the way back for her to her place in the world of living beings . 
Yes ! the time had come . 
In the right of her calamity , in the right of her friendlessness , she was mine at last ! Mine to support , to protect , to cherish , to restore . 
Mine to love and honour as father and brother both . 
II My position is defined my motives are acknowledged . 
The story of Marian and the story of Laura must come next . 
So the tangled web will be most speedily and most intelligibly unrolled . 
The story of Marian begins where the narrative of the housekeeper at Blackwater Park left off . 
that a letter arrived from Madame Fosco announcing Lady Glyde's sudden death in Count Fosco's house . 
It is not necessary to dwell here upon the effect which the intelligence of Lady Glyde's sudden death produced on her sister . 
It is only useful to the present purpose to say that she was not able to travel for more than three weeks afterwards . 
At the end of that time she proceeded to London accompanied by the housekeeper . 
They parted there Mrs. Michelson previously informing Miss Halcombe of her address , in case they might wish to communicate at a future period . 
On parting with the housekeeper Miss Halcombe went at once to the office of Messrs . 
Gilmore Kyrle to consult with the latter gentleman in Mr. Gilmore's absence . 
her suspicion of the circumstances under which Lady Glyde was said to have met her death . 
Mr. Kyrle was placed in communication with the medical man , Mr. Goodricke , and with the two servants . 
Thus the investigation by Mr. Gilmore's partner began and ended . 
Meanwhile , Miss Halcombe had returned to Limmeridge House , and had there collected all the additional information which she was able to obtain . 
Mr. Fairlie had received his first intimation of his niece's death from his sister , Madame Fosco , this letter also not containing any exact reference to dates . 
He had sanctioned his sister's proposal that the deceased lady should be laid in her mother's grave in Limmeridge churchyard . 
Count Fosco had accompanied the remains to Cumberland , and had attended the funeral at Limmeridge , which took place on the th of July . 
It was followed , as a mark of respect , by all the inhabitants of the village and the neighbourhood . 
was engraved on one side of the monument over the tomb . 
They had communicated by writing , and through this medium Count Fosco had made Mr. Fairlie acquainted with the details of his niece's last illness and death . 
The letter presenting this information added no new facts to the facts already known , but one very remarkable paragraph was contained in the postscript . 
It referred to Anne Catherick . 
This was the first part of the postscript . 
The postscript , expressed in these terms , was shown to Miss Halcombe when she arrived at Limmeridge . 
There were also placed in her possession the clothes Lady Glyde had worn , and the other effects she had brought with her to her aunt's house . 
They had been carefully collected and sent to Cumberland by Madame Fosco . 
Such was the posture of affairs when Miss Halcombe reached Limmeridge in the early part of September . 
Shortly afterwards she was confined to her room by a relapse , her weakened physical energies giving way under the severe mental affliction from which she was now suffering . 
On getting stronger again , in a month's time , her suspicion of the circumstances described as attending her sister's death still remained unshaken . 
Instead of answering these letters , Miss Halcombe caused the house in St . 
John's Wood , and the proceedings of its inmates , to be privately watched . 
The same result attended the next investigations , which were secretly instituted on the subject of Mrs. Rubelle . 
She had arrived in London about six months before with her husband . 
Nothing was known against husband or wife in the neighbourhood . 
They were quiet people , and they had paid their way honestly up to the present time . 
The final inquiries related to Sir Percival Glyde . 
He was settled in Paris , and living there quietly in a small circle of English and French friends . 
, in discovering for herself what the poor creature's real motives were for attempting the deceit . 
Although Count Fosco's letter to Mr. Fairlie did not mention the address of the Asylum , that important omission cast no difficulties in Miss Halcombe's way . 
She passed the night of the eleventh in London . 
The next day she proceeded to the Asylum , which was situated not far from London on the northern side of the metropolis . 
She was immediately admitted to see the proprietor . 
At first he appeared to be decidedly unwilling to let her communicate with his patient . 
Miss Halcombe's own impression was that the owner of the Asylum had not been received into the confidence of Sir Percival and the Count . 
On receiving his inmate again , the proprietor of the Asylum acknowledged that he had observed some curious personal changes in her . 
Such changes no doubt were not without precedent in his experience of persons mentally afflicted . 
He allowed for these , and he allowed also for the modification in the form of Anne Catherick's delusion , which was reflected no doubt in her manner and expression . 
But he was still perplexed at times by certain differences between his patient before she had escaped and his patient since she had been brought back . 
Those differences were too minute to be described . 
In short , the case had been a puzzle from the first , and one more perplexity was added to it now . 
It cannot be said that this conversation led to the result of even partially preparing Miss Halcombe's mind for what was to come . 
But it produced , nevertheless , a very serious effect upon her . 
On inquiry , it turned out that the supposed Anne Catherick was then taking exercise in the grounds attached to the establishment . 
About half way down this walk two women were slowly approaching . 
The nurse pointed to them and said , There is Anne Catherick , ma'am , with the attendant who waits on her . 
The attendant will answer any questions you wish to put . 
With those words the nurse left her to return to the duties of the house . 
Miss Halcombe advanced on her side , and the women advanced on theirs . 
In that moment Miss Halcombe recognised her sister recognised the dead alive . 
Fortunately for the success of the measures taken subsequently , no one was present at that moment but the nurse . 
She was a young woman , and she was so startled that she was at first quite incapable of interfering . 
She obtained permission to speak alone with the patient , on condition that they both remained well within the nurse's view . 
The prospect of escaping from the Asylum by obedience to her sister's directions was sufficient to quiet Lady Glyde , and to make her understand what was required of her . 
in the nurse's hands , and asked when and where she could speak to her alone . 
The woman was at first surprised and distrustful . 
Miss Halcombe had only time to assent , and to whisper to her sister that she should hear from her on the next day , when the proprietor of the Asylum joined them . 
He noticed his visitor's agitation , which Miss Halcombe accounted for by saying that her interview with Anne Catherick had a little startled her at first . 
She took her leave as soon after as possible that is to say , as soon as she could summon courage to force herself from the presence of her unfortunate sister . 
By the time Miss Halcombe had got back to London , she had determined to effect Lady Glyde's escape privately , by means of the nurse . 
She went at once to her stockbroker , and sold out of the funds all the little property she possessed , amounting to rather less than seven hundred pounds . 
Miss Halcombe approached the subject cautiously by many preliminary questions . 
for the patient's escape , and had lost her place in consequence . 
She was engaged to be married , and she and her future husband were waiting till they could save , together , between two and three hundred pounds to start in business . 
The nurse's wages were good , and she might succeed , by strict economy , in contributing her small share towards the sum required in two years' time . 
On this hint Miss Halcombe spoke . 
The nurse hesitated , through sheer incredulity and surprise . 
Miss Halcombe pressed the point on her firmly . 
You will be doing a good action , she repeated you will be helping the most injured and unhappy woman alive . 
There is your marriage portion for a reward . 
Bring her safely to me here , and I will put these four bank notes into your hand before I claim her . 
Will you give me a letter saying those words , which I can show to my sweetheart when he asks how I got the money ? inquired the woman . 
I will bring the letter with me , ready written and signed , answered Miss Halcombe . 
Then I'll risk it , said the nurse . 
The nurse could fix no time for her appearance , caution requiring that she should wait and be guided by circumstances . 
On that understanding they separated . 
Miss Halcombe was at her place , with the promised letter and the promised bank notes , before ten the next morning . 
She waited more than an hour and a half . 
At the end of that time the nurse came quickly round the corner of the wall holding Lady Glyde by the arm . 
The moment they met Miss Halcombe put the bank notes and the letter into her hand , and the sisters were united again . 
The nurse had dressed Lady Glyde , with excellent forethought , in a bonnet , veil , and shawl of her own . 
Miss Halcombe only detained her to suggest a means of turning the pursuit in a false direction , when the escape was discovered at the Asylum . 
She at once returned to the house , and Miss Halcombe lost no time in taking her sister back with her to London . 
They caught the afternoon train to Carlisle the same afternoon , and arrived at Limmeridge , without accident or difficulty of any kind , that night . 
The terrible story of the conspiracy so obtained was presented in fragments , sadly incoherent in themselves , and widely detached from each other . 
Imperfect as the revelation was , it must nevertheless be recorded here before this explanatory narrative closes with the events of the next day at Limmeridge House . 
Lady Glyde's recollection of the events which followed her departure from Blackwater Park began with her arrival at the London terminus of the South Western Railway . 
She had omitted to make a memorandum beforehand of the day on which she took the journey . 
All hope of fixing that important date by any evidence of hers , or of Mrs. Michelson's , must be given up for lost . 
On the arrival of the train at the platform Lady Glyde found Count Fosco waiting for her . 
He was at the carriage door as soon as the porter could open it . 
The train was unusually crowded , and there was great confusion in getting the luggage . 
Some person whom Count Fosco brought with him procured the luggage which belonged to Lady Glyde . 
It was marked with her name . 
She drove away alone with the Count in a vehicle which she did not particularly notice at the time . 
Her first question , on leaving the terminus , referred to Miss Halcombe . 
Lady Glyde next inquired whether her sister was then staying in the Count's house . 
Her recollection of the answer was confused , her only distinct impression in relation to it being that the Count declared he was then taking her to see Miss Halcombe . 
Lady Glyde's experience of London was so limited that she could not tell , at the time , through what streets they were driving . 
But they never left the streets , and they never passed any gardens or trees . 
When the carriage stopped , it stopped in a small street behind a square a square in which there were shops , and public buildings , and many people . 
it seems quite clear that Count Fosco did not take her to his own residence in the suburb of St . 
They entered the house , and went upstairs to a back room , either on the first or second floor . 
The luggage was carefully brought in . 
In answer to Lady Glyde's inquiries , the Count assured her that Miss Halcombe was in the house , and that she should be immediately informed of her sister's arrival . 
He and the foreigner then went away and left her by herself in the room . 
It was poorly furnished as a sitting room , and it looked out on the backs of houses . 
The place was remarkably quiet no footsteps went up or down the stairs she only heard in the room beneath her a dull , rumbling sound of men's voices talking . 
Before she had been long left alone the Count returned , to explain that Miss Halcombe was then taking rest , and could not be disturbed for a little while . 
, whom he begged to present as a friend of his . 
After this singular introduction in the course of which no names , to the best of Lady Glyde's recollection , had been mentioned she was left alone with the stranger . 
He was perfectly civil , but he startled and confused her by some odd questions about herself , and by looking at her , while he asked them , in a strange manner . 
After remaining a short time he went out , and a minute or two afterwards a second stranger also an Englishman came in . 
Just as she had risen from her chair , the Count came back into the room . 
The moment he appeared she asked anxiously how long the meeting between her sister and herself was to be still delayed . 
The Count called from the door for water , and for a bottle of smelling salts . 
Both were brought in by the foreign looking man with the beard . 
Her head became giddy on the instant . 
The Count caught the bottle as it dropped out of her hand , and the last impression of which she was conscious was that he held it to her nostrils again . 
From this point her recollections were found to be confused , fragmentary , and difficult to reconcile with any reasonable probability . 
to Mrs. Vesey's that she drank tea there , and that she passed the night under Mrs. Vesey's roof . 
She was totally unable to say how , or when , or in what company she left the house to which Count Fosco had brought her . 
Her recollection of what happened to her the next morning was still more vague and unreliable . 
with Count Fosco , and with Mrs. Rubelle again for a female attendant . 
At this point in her sad story there was a total blank . 
She's dead and buried , and you're alive and hearty . 
These were the only recollections all of them uncertain , and some of them contradictory which could be extracted from Lady Glyde by careful questioning on the journey to Cumberland . 
Miss Halcombe abstained from pressing her with any inquiries relating to events in the Asylum her mind being but too evidently unfit to bear the trial of reverting to them . 
It was known , by the voluntary admission of the owner of the mad house , that she was received there on the twenty seventh of July . 
she had been under restraint , her identity with Anne Catherick systematically asserted , and her sanity , from first to last , practically denied . 
Faculties less delicately balanced , constitutions less tenderly organised , must have suffered under such an ordeal as this . 
No man could have gone through it and come out of it unchanged . 
Arriving at Limmeridge late on the evening of the fifteenth , Miss Halcombe wisely resolved not to attempt the assertion of Lady Glyde's identity until the next day . 
The first thing in the morning she went to Mr. Fairlie's room , and using all possible cautions and preparations beforehand , at last told him in so many words what had happened . 
As soon as his first astonishment and alarm had subsided , he angrily declared that Miss Halcombe had allowed herself to be duped by Anne Catherick . 
The scene that followed , though it only lasted for a few minutes , was too painful to be described Miss Halcombe herself shrank from referring to it . 
The vile deception which had asserted her death defied exposure even in the house where she was born , and among the people with whom she had lived . 
In a less critical situation the effort need not have been given up as hopeless even yet . 
Again , Lady Glyde might have been privately kept in the house or in the village to wait until her health was a little recovered and her mind was a little steadied again . 
But the circumstances under which she had regained her freedom rendered all recourse to such means as these simply impracticable . 
The pursuit from the Asylum , diverted to Hampshire for the time only , would infallibly next take the direction of Cumberland . 
An immediate return to London was the first and wisest measure of security which suggested itself . 
In the great city all traces of them might be most speedily and most surely effaced . 
There were no preparations to make no farewell words of kindness to exchange with any one . 
They had passed the hill above the churchyard , when Lady Glyde insisted on turning back to look her last at her mother's grave . 
Miss Halcombe tried to shake her resolution , but , in this one instance , tried in vain . 
They retraced their steps to the burial ground , and by that act sealed the future of our three lives . 
III This was the story of the past the story so far as we knew it then . 
Two obvious conclusions presented themselves to my mind after hearing it . 
accomplices in the crime The second conclusion came as the necessary consequence of the first . 
We three had no mercy to expect from Count Fosco and Sir Percival Glyde . 
The success of the conspiracy had brought with it a clear gain to those two men of thirty thousand pounds twenty thousand to one , ten thousand to the other through his wife . 
I chose it in the far east of London , where there were fewest idle people to lounge and look about them in the streets . 
These were the great advantages I looked to , but our locality was a gain to us also in another and a hardly less important respect . 
In a week's time Marian Halcombe and I had settled how the course of our new lives should be directed . 
There were no other lodgers in the house , and we had the means of going in and out without passing through the shop . 
He at once concluded that I was in debt , expressed his regret in the usual forms , and then promised to do what he could to assist me . 
I left his false impression undisturbed , and accepted the work he had to give . 
He knew that he could trust my experience and my industry . 
I had what he wanted , steadiness and facility , and though my earnings were but small , they sufficed for our necessities . 
As soon as we could feel certain of this , Marian Halcombe and I put together what we possessed . 
Together we made up between us more than four hundred pounds . 
We calculated our weekly expenditure to the last farthing , and we never touched our little fund except in Laura's interests and for Laura's sake . 
What a woman's hands ARE fit for , she said , early and late , these hands of mine shall do . 
They trembled as she held them out . 
I saw the big tears rise thick in her eyes , and fall slowly over her cheeks as she looked at me . 
She dashed them away with a touch of her old energy , and smiled with a faint reflection of her old good spirits . 
Don't doubt my courage , Walter , she pleaded , it's my weakness that cries , not ME . 
The house work shall conquer it if I can't . 
And she kept her word the victory was won when we met in the evening , and she sat down to rest . 
Her large steady black eyes looked at me with a flash of their bright firmness of bygone days . 
I am not quite broken down yet , she said . 
I am worth trusting with my share of the work . 
Before I could answer , she added in a whisper , And worth trusting with my share in the risk and the danger too . 
Remember that , if the time comes ! I did remember it when the time came . 
I gave up all hope of appealing to my recognition of Laura , or to Marian's recognition of her , in proof of her identity . 
The outward changes wrought by the suffering and the terror of the past had fearfully , almost hopelessly , strengthened the fatal resemblance between Anne Catherick and herself . 
I could not say this now . 
I bought her a little box of colours , and a sketch book like the old sketch book which I had seen in her hands on the morning that we first met . 
This resolution settled , it was next necessary to decide how the first risk should be ventured , and what the first proceedings should be . 
, and to ascertain from him , in the first instance , if the legal remedy lay fairly within our reach . 
The first source of information to which I applied was the journal kept at Blackwater Park by Marian Halcombe . 
There were passages in this diary relating to myself which she thought it best that I should not see . 
Accordingly , she read to me from the manuscript , and I took the notes I wanted as she went on . 
We could only find time to pursue this occupation by sitting up late at night . 
Three nights were devoted to the purpose , and were enough to put me in possession of all that Marian could tell . 
My next proceeding was to gain as much additional evidence as I could procure from other people without exciting suspicion . 
I went myself to Mrs. Vesey to ascertain if Laura's impression of having slept there was correct or not . 
Mrs. Vesey's answer to my inquiries only confirmed the apprehensions which I had previously felt . 
Laura had certainly written to say she would pass the night under the roof of her old friend but she had never been near the house . 
The unconscious contradiction of herself was easy to account for in this way but it was likely to lead to serious results . 
It was a stumble on the threshold at starting it was a flaw in the evidence which told fatally against us . 
In the letter itself no date was mentioned not even the day of the week . 
It only contained these lines Dearest Mrs. Vesey , I am in sad distress and anxiety , and I may come to your house to morrow night , and ask for a bed . 
I can't tell you what is the matter in this letter I write it in such fear of being found out that I can fix my mind on nothing . 
Pray be at home to see me . 
I will give you a thousand kisses , and tell you everything . 
What help was there in those lines ? None . 
While we were waiting for the answer , which reached us in a week's time , I went to the doctor in St . 
John's Wood , introducing myself as sent by Miss Halcombe to collect , if possible , more particulars of her sister's last illness than Mr. Kyrle had found the time to procure . 
who had been employed to prepare the body for the grave . 
Through this person I also discovered a means of communicating with the servant , Hester Pinhorn . 
She had recently left her place in consequence of a disagreement with her mistress , and she was lodging with some people in the neighbourhood whom Mrs. Gould knew . 
There was time enough in the morning for me to take Laura out for her walk as usual , and to see her quietly settled at her drawing afterwards . 
You are not tired of me yet ? she said . 
You are not going away because you are tired of me ? I will try to do better I will try to get well . 
I waited a few minutes longer waited to tell her that she was dearer to me now than she had ever been in the past times . 
Yes , she said to herself , returning to her drawing . 
I must try , because they are both so fond of me . 
She suddenly looked up again . 
Don't be gone long ! I can't get on with my drawing , Walter , when you are not here to help me . 
I shall soon be back , my darling soon be back to see how you are getting on . 
My voice faltered a little in spite of me . 
I forced myself from the room . 
It was no time , then , for parting with the self control which might yet serve me in my need before the day was out . 
As I opened the door , I beckoned to Marian to follow me to the stairs . 
It was necessary to prepare her for a result which I felt might sooner or later follow my showing myself openly in the streets . 
But if anything happens What can happen ? she interposed quickly . 
Tell me plainly , Walter , if there is any danger , and I shall know how to meet it . 
The only danger , I replied , is that Sir Percival Glyde may have been recalled to London by the news of Laura's escape . 
I saw she understood the serious risk that threatened us . 
It is not likely , I said , that I shall be seen in London again so soon , either by Sir Percival himself or by the persons in his employ . 
But it is barely possible that an accident may happen . 
Don't doubt my return , Marian , however it may be delayed and fear nothing . 
Nothing ! she answered firmly . 
You shall not regret , Walter , that you have only a woman to help you . 
She paused , and detained me for a moment longer . 
IV No circumstance of the slightest importance happened on my way to the offices of Messrs . 
Gilmore Kyrle , in Chancery Lane . 
While my card was being taken in to Mr. Kyrle , a consideration occurred to me which I deeply regretted not having thought of before . 
It was too late now to repair this unfortunate error in judgment too late to wish that I had made arrangements for meeting the lawyer in some place privately appointed beforehand . 
I could only resolve to be cautious on leaving Chancery Lane , and not to go straight home again under any circumstances whatever . 
After waiting a few minutes I was shown into Mr. Kyrle's private room . 
ready with his sympathy where strangers were concerned , and not at all easy to disturb in his professional composure . 
A better man for my purpose could hardly have been found . 
If he committed himself to a decision at all , and if the decision was favourable , the strength of our case was as good as proved from that moment . 
My time is at Miss Halcombe's disposal , he replied . 
Where any interests of hers are concerned , I represent my partner personally , as well as professionally . 
It was his request that I should do so , when he ceased to take an active part in business . 
May I inquire whether Mr. Gilmore is in England ? He is not , he is living with his relatives in Germany . 
His health has improved , but the period of his return is still uncertain . 
While we were exchanging these few preliminary words , he had been searching among the papers before him , and he now produced from them a sealed letter . 
Lawyer as he was to the very marrow of his bones , I startled him out of his professional composure . 
Expressions of incredulity and surprise , which he could not repress , interrupted me several times before I had done . 
Before I give my opinion , he said , I must beg permission to clear the ground by a few questions . 
Do you believe that I have spoken the truth , Mr. Kyrle ? I asked , when he had done examining me . 
So far as your own convictions are concerned , I am certain you have spoken the truth , he replied . 
I have the highest esteem for Miss Halcombe , and I have therefore every reason to respect a gentleman whose mediation she trusts in a matter of this kind . 
But you come to me for a legal opinion . 
As a lawyer , and as a lawyer only , it is my duty to tell you , Mr. Hartright , that you have not the shadow of a case . 
You put it strongly , Mr. Kyrle . 
I will try to put it plainly as well . 
The evidence of Lady Glyde's death is , on the face of it , clear and satisfactory . 
There is her aunt's testimony to prove that she came to Count Fosco's house , that she fell ill , and that she died . 
There is the testimony of the medical certificate to prove the death , and to show that it took place under natural circumstances . 
There is the fact of the funeral at Limmeridge , and there is the assertion of the inscription on the tomb . 
That is the case you want to overthrow . 
Miss Halcombe goes to a certain private Asylum , and there sees a certain female patient . 
What have you to set against them ? Miss Halcombe's recognition of the woman , which recognition after events invalidate or contradict . 
In the meantime you have recognised her also , but you are not a relative you are not even an old friend of the family . 
The servants contradict you , and Mr. Fairlie contradicts Miss Halcombe , and the supposed Lady Glyde contradicts herself . 
She declares she passed the night in London at a certain house . 
Let me tell you the result of my experience on that point . 
When an English jury has to choose between a plain fact ON the surface and a long explanation UNDER the surface , it always takes the fact in preference to the explanation . 
declares she has slept at a certain house , and it is proved that she has not slept at that house . 
You explain this circumstance by entering into the state of her mind , and deducing from it a metaphysical conclusion . 
I don't say the conclusion is wrong I only say that the jury will take the fact of her contradicting herself in preference to any reason for the contradiction that you can offer . 
Consider the subject , Mr. Hartright , from your own point of view , he said . 
, every imaginable difficulty would be thrown in the way of your getting fresh evidence . 
I really see no prospect of throwing any light whatever on this extraordinary affair . 
In short , there is no case , Mr. Hartright there is really no case . 
I was determined to believe that there WAS a case , and in that determination shifted my ground , and appealed to him once more . 
Are there not other proofs that we might produce besides the proof of identity ? I asked . 
Not as you are situated , he replied . 
The simplest and surest of all proofs , the proof by comparison of dates , is , as I understand , altogether out of your reach . 
That date may yet be recovered , Mr. Kyrle . 
On the day when it is recovered , Mr. Hartright , you will have a case . 
If you have any prospect , at this moment , of getting at it tell me , and we shall see if I can advise you . 
The housekeeper could not help us Laura could not help us Marian could not help us . 
In all probability , the only persons in existence who knew the date were Sir Percival and the Count . 
Mr. Kyrle's calmly attentive face relaxed , for the first time , into a smile . 
They may be forced to confess it , Mr. Kyrle . 
By whom ? By me . 
He looked me attentively in the face with more appearance of interest than he had shown yet . 
I could see that I had perplexed him a little . 
You are very determined , he said . 
You have , no doubt , a personal motive for proceeding , into which it is not my business to inquire . 
If a case can be produced in the future , I can only say , my best assistance is at your service . 
You are of course aware I stopped him at that point . 
Let me beg that we may not discuss Lady Glyde's affairs , I said . 
I have never known anything about them in former times , and I know nothing of them now except that her fortune is lost . 
You are right in assuming that I have personal motives for stirring in this matter . 
I wish those motives to be always as disinterested as they are at the present moment He tried to interpose and explain . 
I was a little heated , I suppose , by feeling that he had doubted me , and I went on bluntly , without waiting to hear him . 
There shall be no money motive , I said , no idea of personal advantage in the service I mean to render to Lady Glyde . 
I have given my life to that purpose , and , alone as I stand , if God spares me , I will accomplish it . 
He drew back towards his table , and said nothing . 
His face showed plainly that he thought my delusion had got the better of my reason , and that he considered it totally useless to give me any more advice . 
We each keep our opinion , Mr. Kyrle , I said , and we must wait till the events of the future decide between us . 
In the meantime , I am much obliged to you for the attention you have given to my statement . 
You have shown me that the legal remedy lies , in every sense of the word , beyond our means . 
We cannot produce the law proof , and we are not rich enough to pay the law expenses . 
It is something gained to know that . 
I bowed and walked to the door . 
He called me back and gave me the letter which I had seen him place on the table by itself at the beginning of our interview . 
This came by post a few days ago , he said . 
I looked at the letter while he was speaking . 
It was addressed to Miss Halcombe . 
Gilmore Kyrle , Chancery Lane . 
The handwriting was quite unknown to me . 
On leaving the room I asked one last question . 
Do you happen to know , I said , if Sir Percival Glyde is still in Paris ? He has returned to London , replied Mr. Kyrle . 
At least I heard so from his solicitor , whom I met yesterday . 
After that answer I went out . 
On leaving the office the first precaution to be observed was to abstain from attracting attention by stopping to look about me . 
There were two men at the corner of the square who had stopped also , and who were standing talking together . 
After a moment's reflection I turned back so as to pass them . 
One moved as I came near , and turned the corner leading from the square into the street . 
I looked at him as I passed and instantly recognised one of the men who had watched me before I left England . 
If I had been free to follow my own instincts , I should probably have begun by speaking to the man , and have ended by knocking him down . 
But I was bound to consider consequences . 
If I once placed myself publicly in the wrong , I put the weapons at once into Sir Percival's hands . 
There was no choice but to oppose cunning by cunning . 
I turned into the street down which the second man had disappeared , and passed him , waiting in a doorway . 
He was a stranger to me , and I was glad to make sure of his personal appearance in case of future annoyance . 
Having done this , I again walked northward till I reached the New Road . 
One passed in a few minutes . 
I jumped in and told the man to drive rapidly towards Hyde Park . 
There was no second fast cab for the spies behind me . 
I saw them dart across to the other side of the road , to follow me by running , until a cab or a cab stand came in their way . 
But I had the start of them , and when I stopped the driver and got out , they were nowhere in sight . 
I crossed Hyde Park and made sure , on the open ground , that I was free . 
When I at last turned my steps homewards , it was not till many hours later not till after dark . 
I found Marian waiting for me alone in the little sitting room . 
She had persuaded Laura to go to rest , after first promising to show me her drawing the moment I came in . 
I sat down to look at the drawing , and to tell Marian , in whispers , what had happened . 
The partition which divided us from the next room was so thin that we could almost hear Laura's breathing , and we might have disturbed her if we had spoken aloud . 
Marian preserved her composure while I described my interview with Mr. Kyrle . 
But her face became troubled when I spoke next of the men who had followed me from the lawyer's office , and when I told her of the discovery of Sir Percival's return . 
Bad news , Walter , she said , the worst news you could bring . 
Have you nothing more to tell me ? I have something to give you , I replied , handing her the note which Mr. Kyrle had confided to my care . 
She looked at the address and recognised the handwriting instantly . 
You know your correspondent ? I said . 
Too well , she answered . 
My correspondent is Count Fosco . 
With that reply she opened the note . 
Her face flushed deeply while she read it her eyes brightened with anger as she handed it to me to read in my turn . 
Dear and admirable woman , invite no dangerous publicity . 
Resignation is sublime adopt it . 
The modest repose of home is eternally fresh enjoy it . 
The storms of life pass harmless over the valley of Seclusion dwell , dear lady , in the valley . 
Do this and I authorise you to fear nothing . 
No new calamity shall lacerate your sensibilities sensibilities precious to me as my own . 
You shall not be molested , the fair companion of your retreat shall not be pursued . 
She has found a new asylum in your heart . 
Priceless asylum ! I envy her and leave her there . 
One last word of affectionate warning , of paternal caution , and I tear myself from the charm of addressing you I close these fervent lines . 
Advance no farther than you have gone already , compromise no serious interests , threaten nobody . 
If you have rash friends , moderate their deplorable ardour . 
If Mr. Hartright returns to England , hold no communication with him . 
I walk on a path of my own , and Percival follows at my heels . 
On the day when Mr. Hartright crosses that path , he is a lost man . 
The only signature to these lines was the initial letter F , surrounded by a circle of intricate flourishes . 
I threw the letter on the table with all the contempt that I felt for it . 
He is trying to frighten you a sure sign that he is frightened himself , I said . 
She was too genuine a woman to treat the letter as I treated it . 
The insolent familiarity of the language was too much for her self control . 
As she looked at me across the table , her hands clenched themselves in her lap , and the old quick fiery temper flamed out again brightly in her cheeks and her eyes . 
Walter ! she said , if ever those two men are at your mercy , and if you are obliged to spare one of them , don't let it be the Count . 
I will keep this letter , Marian , to help my memory when the time comes . 
She looked at me attentively as I put the letter away in my pocket book . 
When the time comes ? she repeated . 
All I have done to day is to ask another man to act for me . 
I count from to morrow Why from to morrow ? Because to morrow I mean to act for myself . 
How ? I shall go to Blackwater by the first train , and return , I hope , at night . 
I have had time to think since I left Mr. Kyrle . 
His opinion on one point confirms my own . 
We must persist to the last in hunting down the date of Laura's journey . 
The one weak point in the conspiracy , and probably the one chance of proving that she is a living woman , centre in the discovery of that date . 
You mean , said Marian , the discovery that Laura did not leave Blackwater Park till after the date of her death on the doctor's certificate ? Certainly . 
What makes you think it might have been AFTER ? Laura can tell us nothing of the time she was in London . 
But the owner of the Asylum told you that she was received there on the twenty seventh of July . 
I doubt Count Fosco's ability to keep her in London , and to keep her insensible to all that was passing around her , more than one night . 
In that case , she must have started on the twenty sixth , and must have come to London one day after the date of her own death on the doctor's certificate . 
If we can prove that date , we prove our case against Sir Percival and the Count . 
Yes , yes I see ! But how is the proof to be obtained ? Mrs. Michelson's narrative has suggested to me two ways of trying to obtain it . 
One of them is to question the doctor , Mr. Dawson , who must know when he resumed his attendance at Blackwater Park after Laura left the house . 
The other is to make inquiries at the inn to which Sir Percival drove away by himself at night . 
We know that his departure followed Laura's after the lapse of a few hours , and we may get at the date in that way . 
The attempt is at least worth making , and to morrow I am determined it shall be made . 
Innocent people may well forget the date but THEY are guilty , and THEY know it . 
If I fail everywhere else , I mean to force a confession out of one or both of them on my own terms . 
All the woman flushed up in Marian's face as I spoke . 
Begin with the Count , she whispered eagerly . 
For my sake , begin with the Count . 
We must begin , for Laura's sake , where there is the best chance of success , I replied . 
The colour faded from her face again , and she shook her head sadly . 
Yes , she said , you are right it was mean and miserable of me to say that . 
I try to be patient , Walter , and succeed better now than I did in happier times . 
But , remember , there is no weak place in his life that we know of yet . 
It is our only sure hold on him . 
I can force him from his position of security , I can drag him and his villainy into the face of day , by no other means . 
Whatever the Count may have done , Sir Percival has consented to the conspiracy against Laura from another motive besides the motive of gain . 
Well , Marian , when our other resources have failed us , I mean to know the Secret . 
My old superstition clings to me , even yet . 
I say again the woman in white is a living influence in our three lives . 
My early departure from London enabled me to reach Mr. Dawson's house in the forenoon . 
Our interview , so far as the object of my visit was concerned , led to no satisfactory result . 
how many days had elapsed between the renewal of the doctor's attendance on his patient and the previous departure of Lady Glyde . 
Hopeless of obtaining assistance from Mr. Dawson , I resolved to try next if I could establish the date of Sir Percival's arrival at Knowlesbury . 
It seemed like a fatality ! When I reached Knowlesbury the inn was shut up , and bills were posted on the walls . 
The speculation had been a bad one , as I was informed , ever since the time of the railway . 
, had been closed about two months since . 
The proprietor had left the town with all his goods and chattels , and where he had gone I could not positively ascertain from any one . 
The four people of whom I inquired gave me four different accounts of his plans and projects when he left Knowlesbury . 
If they , too , proved unable to assist me , my resources for the present were at an end , and I might return to town . 
I dismissed the fly a mile distant from the park , and getting my directions from the driver , proceeded by myself to the house . 
As I turned into the lane from the high road , I saw a man , with a carpet bag , walking before me rapidly on the way to the lodge . 
He was a little man , dressed in shabby black , and wearing a remarkably large hat . 
for a lawyer's clerk , and stopped at once to widen the distance between us . 
He had not heard me , and he walked on out of sight , without looking back . 
When I passed through the gates myself , a little while afterwards , he was not visible he had evidently gone on to the house . 
There were two women in the lodge . 
One of them was old , the other I knew at once , by Marian's description of her , to be Margaret Porcher . 
I asked first if Sir Percival was at the Park , and receiving a reply in the negative , inquired next when he had left it . 
Neither of the women could tell me more than that he had gone away in the summer . 
I could extract nothing from Margaret Porcher but vacant smiles and shakings of the head . 
The old woman was a little more intelligent , and I managed to lead her into speaking of the manner of Sir Percival's departure , and of the alarm that it caused her . 
On leaving the lodge I saw the gardener at work not far off . 
There is no need to describe what passed between us it ended , as all my other attempts to discover the date had ended . 
The gardener knew that his master had driven away , at night , some time in July , the last fortnight or the last ten days in the month and knew no more . 
While we were speaking together I saw the man in black , with the large hat , come out from the house , and stand at some little distance observing us . 
Certain suspicions of his errand at Blackwater Park had already crossed my mind . 
to tell me who the man was , and I determined to clear the way before me , if possible , by speaking to him . 
The plainest question I could put as a stranger would be to inquire if the house was allowed to be shown to visitors . 
I walked up to the man at once , and accosted him in those words . 
His look and manner unmistakably betrayed that he knew who I was , and that he wanted to irritate me into quarrelling with him . 
His reply was insolent enough to have answered the purpose , if I had been less determined to control myself . 
As it was , I met him with the most resolute politeness , apologised for my involuntary intrusion and left the grounds . 
It was exactly as I suspected . 
I was prepared to be watched on the way from Blackwater Park to the station , exactly as I had been watched in London the day before . 
But I could not discover at the time , whether I was really followed on this occasion or not . 
She asked eagerly what success I had met with . 
When I told her she could not conceal her surprise at the indifference with which I spoke of the failure of my investigations thus far . 
The truth was , that the ill success of my inquiries had in no sense daunted me . 
I had pursued them as a matter of duty , and I had expected nothing from them . 
I could not look at her and think of the future with such thoughts as those . 
All my hopes looked no farther on now than to the day of her recovery . 
These words are written under no prompting of idle self contemplation . 
Passages in this narrative are soon to come which will set the minds of others in judgment on my conduct . 
It is right that the best and the worst of me should be fairly balanced before that time . 
The way to the Secret lay through the mystery , hitherto impenetrable to all of us , of the woman in white . 
After thinking the subject over carefully , I felt certain that I could only begin the new inquiries by placing myself in communication with the faithful friend and protectress of Anne Catherick . 
The first difficulty then was to find Mrs. Clements . 
I was indebted to Marian's quick perception for meeting this necessity at once by the best and simplest means . 
, to inquire whether Mrs. Clements had communicated with Mrs. Todd during the past few months . 
I saw directly that Marian's proposal offered us a prospect of success , and she wrote to Mrs. Todd accordingly by that day's post . 
While we were waiting for the reply , I made myself master of all the information Marian could afford on the subject of Sir Percival's family , and of his early life . 
She could only speak on these topics from hearsay , but she was reasonably certain of the truth of what little she had to tell . 
Sir Percival was an only child . 
His father , Sir Felix Glyde , had suffered from his birth under a painful and incurable deformity , and had shunned all society from his earliest years . 
His sole happiness was in the enjoyment of music , and he had married a lady with tastes similar to his own , who was said to be a most accomplished musician . 
He inherited the Blackwater property while still a young man . 
The rector was the worst of all innocent mischief makers an over zealous man . 
After a short residence in London he and his wife departed for the Continent , and never returned to England again . 
Their son , Percival , had been born abroad , and had been educated there by private tutors . 
His mother was the first of his parents whom he lost . 
His father had died a few years after her , either in or . 
They soon became very intimate , although Sir Percival was seldom , or never , at Limmeridge House in those days . 
Mr. Frederick Fairlie might have met him once or twice in Mr. Philip Fairlie's company , but he could have known little of him at that or at any other time . 
Sir Percival's only intimate friend in the Fairlie family had been Laura's father . 
These were all the particulars that I could gain from Marian . 
They suggested nothing which was useful to my present purpose , but I noted them down carefully , in the event of their proving to be of importance at any future period . 
had arrived at its destination when I went to apply for it . 
The chances , which had been all against us hitherto , turned from this moment in our favour . 
Mrs. Todd's letter contained the first item of information of which we were in search . 
It was in London , and within half an hour's walk of our own lodging . 
In the words of the proverb , I was resolved not to let the grass grow under my feet . 
The next morning I set forth to seek an interview with Mrs. Clements . 
This was my first step forward in the investigation . 
The story of the desperate attempt to which I now stood committed begins here . 
VI The address communicated by Mrs. Todd took me to a lodging house situated in a respectable street near the Gray's Inn Road . 
When I knocked the door was opened by Mrs. Clements herself . 
She did not appear to remember me , and asked what my business was . 
to escape the pursuit from the Asylum . 
This was my only claim to the confidence of Mrs. Clements . 
She remembered the circumstance the moment I spoke of it , and asked me into the parlour , in the greatest anxiety to know if I had brought her any news of Anne . 
I could only abstain most carefully from raising any false hopes , and then explain that the object of my visit was to discover the persons who were really responsible for Anne's disappearance . 
was not the same , and whether she felt any reluctance to forward my object by giving me such information on the subject of my inquiries as she happened to possess . 
The poor woman was at first too much confused and agitated to understand thoroughly what I said to her . 
There was serious weight in this objection , and Mrs. Clements felt that it was not to be easily removed . 
At Grimsby the first serious symptoms of illness had shown themselves in Anne . 
They appeared soon after the news of Lady Glyde's marriage had been made public in the newspapers , and had reached her through that medium . 
The medical man who was sent for to attend the sick woman discovered at once that she was suffering from a serious affection of the heart . 
The illness lasted long , left her very weak , and returned at intervals , though with mitigated severity , again and again . 
Mrs. Clements did all in her power to oppose the execution of this hazardous and unaccountable project . 
Her resolution to accomplish this purpose was so firmly settled that she declared her intention of going to Hampshire by herself if Mrs. Clements felt any unwillingness to go with her . 
In this way she found out that the only place they could go to , which was not dangerously near to Sir Percival's residence , was a large village called Sandon . 
The old pain over the heart and the other symptoms of the illness at Grimsby returned , and Anne was confined to her bed in the cottage . 
, and prevail on her to come back privately to the cottage near Sandon . 
Upon this Mrs. Clements at once confided her errand to him , and entreated that he would help to allay Anne's anxiety by trusting his message to her . 
The Count most readily and kindly complied with her request . 
The message , he said , was a very important one . 
gratefully accepted the offer , and they went back together to the cottage . 
Anne was asleep when they got there . 
Poor Mrs. Clements supposed that he was only shocked to see how ill she was . 
He would not allow her to be awakened he was contented with putting questions to Mrs. Clements about her symptoms , with looking at her , and with lightly touching her pulse . 
Sandon was a large enough place to have a grocer's and druggist's shop in it , and thither the Count went to write his prescription and to get the medicine made up . 
The remedy was to be administered at stated times on that day and on the day after . 
If they did not appear he would assume that Anne was worse , and would proceed at once to the cottage . 
As events turned out , no such emergency as this occurred . 
, they arrived at the station . 
The Count was waiting there for them , and was talking to an elderly lady , who appeared to be going to travel by the train to London also . 
He most kindly assisted them , and put them into the carriage himself , begging Mrs. Clements not to forget to send her address to Lady Glyde . 
The elderly lady did not travel in the same compartment , and they did not notice what became of her on reaching the London terminus . 
Mrs. Clements secured respectable lodgings in a quiet neighbourhood , and then wrote , as she had engaged to do , to inform Lady Glyde of the address . 
A little more than a fortnight passed , and no answer came . 
to forward the object in view , especially as she was not required to be away from the house for more than half an hour at the most . 
then left in the cab . 
After waiting some time Mrs. Clements became alarmed , and ordered the cabman to drive back to her lodgings . 
When she got there , after an absence of rather more than half an hour , Anne was gone . 
The only information to be obtained from the people of the house was derived from the servant who waited on the lodgers . 
The servant had delivered the letter , had then gone downstairs , and five minutes afterwards had observed Anne open the front door and go out , dressed in her bonnet and shawl . 
It must have been a strong one , for she would never stir out alone in London of her own accord . 
If Mrs. Clements had not known this by experience nothing would have induced her to go away in the cab , even for so short a time as half an hour only . 
She went there the next day , having been informed of the locality in which the house was situated by Anne herself . 
was , that no such person had been brought back there . 
She had then written to Mrs. Catherick at Welmingham to know if she had seen or heard anything of her daughter , and had received an answer in the negative . 
After that reply had reached her , she was at the end of her resources , and perfectly ignorant where else to inquire or what else to do . 
From that time to this she had remained in total ignorance of the cause of Anne's disappearance and of the end of Anne's story . 
VII Thus far the information which I had received from Mrs. Clements though it established facts of which I had not previously been aware was of a preliminary character only . 
But the purpose I had now in view led me in another direction than this . 
I wish I could be of any help to you in this sad calamity , I said . 
All I can do is to feel heartily for your distress . 
If Anne had been your own child , Mrs. Clements , you could have shown her no truer kindness you could have made no readier sacrifices for her sake . 
There's no great merit in that , sir , said Mrs. Clements simply . 
The poor thing was as good as my own child to me . 
I nursed her from a baby , sir , bringing her up by hand and a hard job it was to rear her . 
It wouldn't go to my heart so to lose her if I hadn't made her first short clothes and taught her to walk . 
I always said she was sent to console me for never having chick or child of my own . 
Not very long , sir not above four months . 
We saw a great deal of each other in that time , but we were never very friendly together . 
Her voice was steadier as she made that reply . 
Were you and Mrs. Catherick neighbours ? I inquired , leading her memory on as encouragingly as I could . 
Yes , sir neighbours at Old Welmingham . 
They built a new town about two miles off , convenient to the river and Old Welmingham , which was never much more than a village , got in time to be deserted . 
The new town is the place they call Welmingham now but the old parish church is the parish church still . 
It stands by itself , with the houses pulled down or gone to ruin all round it . 
I've lived to see sad changes . 
It was a pleasant , pretty place in my time . 
Did you live there before your marriage , Mrs. Clements ? No , sir I'm a Norfolk woman . 
It wasn't the place my husband belonged to either . 
He was from Grimsby , as I told you , and he served his apprenticeship there . 
But having friends down south , and hearing of an opening , he got into business at Southampton . 
It was in a small way , but he made enough for a plain man to retire on , and settled at Old Welmingham . 
I went there with him when he married me . 
Was your husband acquainted with them before that ? With Catherick , sir not with his wife . 
She was a stranger to both of us . 
Some gentlemen had made interest for Catherick , and he got the situation of clerk at Welmingham church , which was the reason of his coming to settle in our neighbourhood . 
He brought his newly married wife along with him , and we heard in course of time she had been lady's maid in a family that lived at Varneck Hall , near Southampton . 
Catherick had found it a hard matter to get her to marry him , in consequence of her holding herself uncommonly high . 
He had asked and asked , and given the thing up at last , seeing she was so contrary about it . 
When he HAD given it up she turned contrary just the other way , and came to him of her own accord , without rhyme or reason seemingly . 
My poor husband always said that was the time to have given her a lesson . 
But Catherick was too fond of her to do anything of the sort he never checked her either before they were married or after . 
My husband said he thought things would turn out badly when they first came to live near us , and his words proved true . 
Before they had been quite four months in our neighbourhood there was a dreadful scandal and a miserable break up in their household . 
Both of them were in fault I am afraid both of them were equally in fault . 
You mean both husband and wife ? Oh , no , sir ! I don't mean Catherick he was only to be pitied . 
I meant his wife and the person And the person who caused the scandal ? Yes , sir . 
A gentleman born and brought up , who ought to have set a better example . 
You know him , sir and my poor dear Anne knew him only too well . 
Sir Percival Glyde ? Yes , Sir Percival Glyde . 
My heart beat fast I thought I had my hand on the clue . 
How little I knew then of the windings of the labyrinths which were still to mislead me ! Did Sir Percival live in your neighbourhood at that time ? I asked . 
He came among us as a stranger . 
His father had died not long before in foreign parts . 
I remember he was in mourning . 
, where gentlemen used to go to fish . 
He wasn't much noticed when he first came it was a common thing enough for gentlemen to travel from all parts of England to fish in our river . 
Did he make his appearance in the village before Anne was born ? Yes , sir . 
Anne was born in the June month of eighteen hundred and twenty seven and I think he came at the end of April or the beginning of May . 
Came as a stranger to all of you ? A stranger to Mrs. Catherick as well as to the rest of the neighbours ? So we thought at first , sir . 
But when the scandal broke out , nobody believed they were strangers . 
I remember how it happened as well as if it was yesterday . 
Catherick came into our garden one night , and woke us by throwing up a handful of gravel from the walk at our window . 
I heard him beg my husband , for the Lord's sake , to come down and speak to him . 
They were a long time together talking in the porch . 
When my husband came back upstairs he was all of a tremble . 
'Does he think she stole them ? says I. 'No , says he , 'stealing would be bad enough . 
But it's worse than that , she's had no chance of stealing such things as those , and she's not a woman to take them if she had . 
Don't you say anything about it I've quieted Catherick for to night . 
I've told him to keep his tongue to himself , and his eyes and his ears open , and to wait a day or two , till he can be quite certain . 
'Ay , but is he a stranger to her ? says my husband . 
'You forget how Catherick's wife came to marry him . 
She went to him of her own accord , after saying No over and over again when he asked her . 
We shall see , says my husband , 'we shall soon see . 
And only two days afterwards we did see . 
Mrs. Clements waited for a moment before she went on . 
Even in that moment , I began to doubt whether the clue that I thought I had found was really leading me to the central mystery of the labyrinth after all . 
And as I told you , he hadn't long to wait . 
On the second day he found his wife and Sir Percival whispering together quite familiar , close under the vestry of the church . 
fell into a kind of frenzy at his own disgrace , and struck Sir Percival . 
All this happened towards evening , and before nightfall , when my husband went to Catherick's house , he was gone , nobody knew where . 
No living soul in the village ever saw him again . 
The clergyman of the parish put an advertisement in the paper begging him to come back , and saying that he should not lose his situation or his friends . 
My husband heard from him when he had left England , and heard a second time , when he was settled and doing well in America . 
What became of Sir Percival ? I inquired . 
Did he stay in the neighbourhood ? Not he , sir . 
The place was too hot to hold him . 
He was heard at high words with Mrs. Catherick the same night when the scandal broke out , and the next morning he took himself off . 
And Mrs. Catherick ? Surely she never remained in the village among the people who knew of her disgrace ? She did , sir . 
She was hard enough and heartless enough to set the opinions of all her neighbours at flat defiance . 
There she is now , and there she will stop , in defiance of the best of them , to her dying day . 
But how has she lived through all these years ? I asked . 
Was her husband able and willing to help her ? Both able and willing , sir , said Mrs. Clements . 
He could afford to make her some small allowance , and she might draw for it quarterly at a place in London . 
Did she accept the allowance ? Not a farthing of it , sir . 
She said she would never be beholden to Catherick for bit or drop , if she lived to be a hundred . 
And she has kept her word ever since . 
'I'll let all England know I'm in want , she said , 'before I tell Catherick , or any friend of Catherick's . 
Take that for your answer , and give it to HIM for an answer , if he ever writes again . 
Do you suppose that she had money of her own ? Very little , if any , sir . 
It was said , and said truly , I am afraid , that her means of living came privately from Sir Percival Glyde . 
After that last reply I waited a little , to reconsider what I had heard . 
But there was one point in the narrative which made me doubt the propriety of accepting it unreservedly , and which suggested the idea of something hidden below the surface . 
I could not account to myself for the circumstance of the clerk's guilty wife voluntarily living out all her after existence on the scene of her disgrace . 
The woman's own reported statement that she had taken this strange course as a practical assertion of her innocence did not satisfy me . 
It seemed , to my mind , more natural and more probable to assume that she was not so completely a free agent in this matter as she had herself asserted . 
In that case , who was the likeliest person to possess the power of compelling her to remain at Welmingham ? The person unquestionably from whom she derived the means of living . 
My next questions were now directed to the one object of ascertaining whether Mr. Catherick had or had not arrived truly at the conviction of his wife's misconduct . 
The answers I received from Mrs. Clements left me in no doubt whatever on that point . 
Mrs. Catherick had , on the clearest evidence , compromised her reputation , while a single woman , with some person unknown , and had married to save her character . 
I was in no position to try the probabilities on one side or on the other in this instance by any better test than the test of personal resemblance . 
I suppose you often saw Sir Percival when he was in your village ? I said . 
Yes , sir , very often , replied Mrs. Clements . 
Did you ever observe that Anne was like him ? She was not at all like him , sir . 
Was she like her mother , then ? Not like her mother either , sir . 
Mrs. Catherick was dark , and full in the face . 
Not like her mother and not like her father . 
I knew that the test by personal resemblance was not to be implicitly trusted , but , on the other hand , it was not to be altogether rejected on that account . 
When Sir Percival first arrived in your neighbourhood , I said , did you hear where he had come from last ? No , sir . 
Some said from Blackwater Park , and some said from Scotland but nobody knew . 
Was Mrs. Catherick living in service at Varneck Hall immediately before her marriage ? Yes , sir . 
And had she been long in her place ? Three or four years , sir I am not quite certain which . 
Did you ever hear the name of the gentleman to whom Varneck Hall belonged at that time ? Yes , sir . 
His name was Major Donthorne . 
I noted down Major Donthorne's name and address , on the chance that he might still be alive , and that it might be useful at some future time to apply to him . 
I have not heard yet , I said , how the poor child , born in all this sin and misery , came to be trusted , Mrs. Clements , to your care . 
There was nobody else , sir , to take the little helpless creature in hand , replied Mrs. Clements . 
The wicked mother seemed to hate it as if the poor baby was in fault ! from the day it was born . 
My heart was heavy for the child , and I made the offer to bring it up as tenderly as if it was my own . 
Did Anne remain entirely under your care from that time ? Not quite entirely , sir . 
But these fits of hers never lasted for long . 
Our longest separation was when her mother took her to Limmeridge . 
Just at that time I lost my husband , and I felt it was as well , in that miserable affliction , that Anne should not be in the house . 
And did Mrs. Catherick consent to your proposal ? No , sir . 
She came back from the north harder and bitterer than ever . 
These things may have soured Mrs. Catherick likely enough , but however that may be , she wouldn't hear of my taking the child away . 
She seemed to like distressing us both by parting us . 
All I could do was to give Anne my direction , and to tell her privately , if she was ever in trouble , to come to me . 
But years passed before she was free to come . 
I never saw her again , poor soul , till the night she escaped from the mad house . 
You know , Mrs. Clements , why Sir Percival Glyde shut her up ? I only know what Anne herself told me , sir . 
The poor thing used to ramble and wander about it sadly . 
But she never could say what it was when I asked her . 
All she could tell me was , that her mother might be the ruin and destruction of Sir Percival if she chose . 
Mrs. Catherick may have let out just as much as that , and no more . 
This idea had more than once occurred to my own mind . 
The time was passing , the morning was wearing away . 
It was doubtful , if I stayed longer , whether I should hear anything more from Mrs. Clements that would be at all useful to my purpose . 
I rose to take my leave , and to thank Mrs. Clements for the friendly readiness she had shown in affording me information . 
I am afraid you must have thought me very inquisitive , I said . 
I have troubled you with more questions than many people would have cared to answer . 
You are heartily welcome , sir , to anything I can tell you , answered Mrs. Clements . 
She stopped and looked at me wistfully . 
But I do wish , said the poor woman , you could have told me a little more about Anne , sir . 
I thought I saw something in your face when you came in which looked as if you could . 
You can't think how hard it is not even to know whether she is living or dead . 
I could bear it better if I was only certain . 
You said you never expected we should see her alive again . 
I am afraid there is no doubt of the truth , I answered gently I have the certainty in my own mind that her troubles in this world are over . 
The poor woman dropped into her chair and hid her face from me . 
Oh , sir , she said , how do you know it ? Who can have told you ? No one has told me , Mrs. Clements . 
But I have reasons for feeling sure of it reasons which I promise you shall know as soon as I can safely explain them . 
I am certain she was not neglected in her last moments I am certain the heart complaint from which she suffered so sadly was the true cause of her death . 
Dead ! said Mrs. Clements , dead so young , and I am left to hear it ! I made her first short frocks . 
I taught her to walk . 
She seemed to take an inexplicable pride in my answer to find a comfort in it which no other and higher considerations could afford . 
You are sure to see me again , I said , for I have a favour to ask when you are a little more composed perhaps in a day or two . 
Don't keep it waiting , sir , on my account , said Mrs. Clements . 
Never mind my crying if I can be of use . 
If you have anything on your mind to say to me , sir , please to say it now . 
I only wish to ask you one last question , I said . 
I only want to know Mrs. Catherick's address at Welmingham . 
My request so startled Mrs. Clements , that , for the moment , even the tidings of Anne's death seemed to be driven from her mind . 
Her tears suddenly ceased to flow , and she sat looking at me in blank amazement . 
There is a secret we none of us know between those two , and I am going to Mrs. Catherick with the resolution to find it out . 
Think twice about it , sir ! said Mrs. Clements , rising in her earnestness and laying her hand on my arm . 
She's an awful woman you don't know her as I do . 
I am sure your warning is kindly meant , Mrs. Clements . 
But I am determined to see the woman , whatever comes of it . 
Mrs. Clements looked me anxiously in the face . 
I see your mind is made up , sir , she said . 
I will give you the address . 
I wrote it down in my pocket book and then took her hand to say farewell . 
You shall hear from me soon , I said you shall know all that I have promised to tell you . 
Mrs. Clements sighed and shook her head doubtfully . 
An old woman's advice is sometimes worth taking , sir , she said . 
Think twice before you go to Welmingham . 
VIII When I reached home again after my interview with Mrs. Clements , I was struck by the appearance of a change in Laura . 
The unvarying gentleness and patience which long misfortune had tried so cruelly and had never conquered yet , seemed now to have suddenly failed her . 
I sat down in the vacant chair gently unclasped the poor , worn , restless fingers , and took both her hands in mine . 
What are you thinking of , Laura ? Tell me , my darling try and tell me what it is . 
She struggled with herself , and raised her eyes to mine . 
Try to tell me , I repeated gently try to tell me why you are not happy . 
I am so useless I am such a burden on both of you , she answered , with a weary , hopeless sigh . 
You work and get money , Walter , and Marian helps you . 
I rose , and set her drawing materials in order , and placed them near her again . 
You know that I work and get money by drawing , I said . 
Now you have taken such pains , now you are so much improved , you shall begin to work and get money too . 
Try to finish this little sketch as nicely and prettily as you can . 
When it is done I will take it away with me , and the same person will buy it who buys all that I do . 
You shall keep your own earnings in your own purse , and Marian shall come to you to help us , as often as she comes to me . 
Think how useful you are going to make yourself to both of us , and you will soon be as happy , Laura , as the day is long . 
Her face grew eager , and brightened into a smile . 
In the moment while it lasted , in the moment when she again took up the pencils that had been laid aside , she almost looked like the Laura of past days . 
Her drawings , as she finished them , or tried to finish them , were placed in my hands . 
Am I trifling , here , with the necessities of my task ? am I looking forward to the happier time which my narrative has not yet reached ? Yes . 
Back again back to the days of doubt and dread , when the spirit within me struggled hard for its life , in the icy stillness of perpetual suspense . 
I have paused and rested for a while on my forward course . 
It is not , perhaps , time wasted , if the friends who read these pages have paused and rested too . 
I took the first opportunity I could find of speaking to Marian in private , and of communicating to her the result of the inquiries which I had made that morning . 
She seemed to share the opinion on the subject of my proposed journey to Welmingham , which Mrs. Clements had already expressed to me . 
What has led you to that conclusion ? I replied , in some surprise . 
My own knowledge of Sir Percival's obstinacy and impatience of the Count's control , she answered . 
I believe he will insist on meeting you single handed just as he insisted at first on acting for himself at Blackwater Park . 
The time for suspecting the Count's interference will be the time when you have Sir Percival at your mercy . 
His own interests will then be directly threatened , and he will act , Walter , to terrible purpose in his own defence . 
We may deprive him of his weapons beforehand , I said . 
Some of the particulars I have heard from Mrs. Clements may yet be turned to account against him , and other means of strengthening the case may be at our disposal . 
Tell him that the statement you request will , sooner or later , be insisted on , if he shows any reluctance to furnish you with it of his own accord . 
The letter shall be written , Walter . 
But are you really determined to go to Welmingham ? Absolutely determined . 
I will devote the next two days to earning what we want for the week to come , and on the third day I go to Hampshire . 
When the third day came I was ready for my journey . 
As long as I heard from her regularly , I should assume that nothing was wrong . 
But if the morning came and brought me no letter , my return to London would take place , as a matter of course , by the first train . 
Marian followed me downstairs to the street door . 
Remember what anxious hearts you leave here , she whispered , as we stood together in the passage . 
Remember all the hopes that hang on your safe return . 
If strange things happen to you on this journey if you and Sir Percival meet What makes you think we shall meet ? I asked . 
I don't know I have fears and fancies that I cannot account for . 
With those words we parted . 
I walked briskly to the station . 
There was a glow of hope in me . 
There was a growing conviction in my mind that my journey this time would not be taken in vain . 
It was a fine , clear , cold morning . 
My nerves were firmly strung , and I felt all the strength of my resolution stirring in me vigorously from head to foot . 
Even as a mere matter of expediency the proceeding was doubtful in the extreme . 
If I tried the experiment at home the landlord of the house would sooner or later discover me , and would have his suspicions aroused immediately . 
In my own character I had acted thus far and in my own character I was resolved to continue to the end . 
The train left me at Welmingham early in the afternoon . 
There was a bare little plot of grass in the middle , protected by a cheap wire fence . 
An elderly nursemaid and two children were standing in a corner of the enclosure , looking at a lean goat tethered to the grass . 
I heard the dull tinkling of a piano at a distance , accompanied by the intermittent knocking of a hammer nearer at hand . 
These were all the sights and sounds of life that encountered me when I entered the square . 
The first necessity was to see Mrs. Catherick . 
I could then judge , from my own observation , of the safest and easiest manner of approaching the object of my visit . 
The door was opened by a melancholy middle aged woman servant . 
I gave her my card , and asked if I could see Mrs. Catherick . 
The card was taken into the front parlour , and the servant returned with a message requesting me to mention what my business was . 
Say , if you please , that my business relates to Mrs. Catherick's daughter , I replied . 
This was the best pretext I could think of , on the spur of the moment , to account for my visit . 
The servant again retired to the parlour , again returned , and this time begged me , with a look of gloomy amazement , to walk in . 
I entered a little room , with a flaring paper of the largest pattern on the walls . 
Chairs , tables , cheffonier , and sofa , all gleamed with the glutinous brightness of cheap upholstery . 
Her iron grey hair hung in heavy bands on either side of her face her dark eyes looked straight forward , with a hard , defiant , implacable stare . 
She had full square cheeks , a long , firm chin , and thick , sensual , colourless lips . 
Her figure was stout and sturdy , and her manner aggressively self possessed . 
You have come to speak to me about my daughter , she said , before I could utter a word on my side . 
Be so good as to mention what you have to say . 
The tone of her voice was as hard , as defiant , as implacable as the expression of her eyes . 
She pointed to a chair , and looked me all over attentively , from head to foot , as I sat down in it . 
You are aware , I said , that your daughter has been lost ? I am perfectly aware of it . 
Have you felt any apprehension that the misfortune of her loss might be followed by the misfortune of her death ? Yes . 
Have you come here to tell me she is dead ? I have . 
Why ? She put that extraordinary question without the slightest change in her voice , her face , or her manner . 
She could not have appeared more perfectly unconcerned if I had told her of the death of the goat in the enclosure outside . 
Do you ask why I come here to tell you of your daughter's death ? Yes . 
What interest have you in me , or in her ? How do you come to know anything about my daughter ? In this way . 
I met her on the night when she escaped from the Asylum , and I assisted her in reaching a place of safety . 
I am sorry to hear her mother say so . 
Her mother does say so . 
How do you know she is dead ? I am not at liberty to say how I know it but I DO know it . 
Are you at liberty to say how you found out my address ? Certainly . 
I got your address from Mrs. Clements . 
Mrs. Clements is a foolish woman . 
Did she tell you to come here ? She did not . 
Then , I ask you again , why did you come ? As she was determined to have her answer , I gave it to her in the plainest possible form . 
I came , I said , because I thought Anne Catherick's mother might have some natural interest in knowing whether she was alive or dead . 
Just so , said Mrs. Catherick , with additional self possession . 
Had you no other motive ? I hesitated . 
The right answer to that question was not easy to find at a moment's notice . 
Your information would be more satisfactory if you were willing to explain how you became possessed of it . 
However , it justifies me , I suppose , in going into mourning . 
There is not much alteration necessary in my dress , as you see . 
When I have changed my mittens , I shall be all in black . 
I wish you good morning , she said . 
The cool contempt of her manner irritated me into directly avowing that the purpose of my visit had not been answered yet . 
I HAVE another motive in coming here , I said . 
Ah ! I thought so , remarked Mrs. Catherick . 
Your daughter's death What did she die of ? Of disease of the heart . 
Your daughter's death has been made the pretext for inflicting serious injury on a person who is very dear to me . 
Two men have been concerned , to my certain knowledge , in doing that wrong . 
One of them is Sir Percival Glyde . 
Indeed ! I looked attentively to see if she flinched at the sudden mention of that name . 
Not a muscle of her stirred the hard , defiant , implacable stare in her eyes never wavered for an instant . 
You may wonder , I went on , how the event of your daughter's death can have been made the means of inflicting injury on another person . 
No , said Mrs. Catherick I don't wonder at all . 
This appears to be your affair . 
You are interested in my affairs . 
I am not interested in yours . 
You may ask , then , I persisted , why I mention the matter in your presence . 
Yes , I DO ask that . 
I mention it because I am determined to bring Sir Percival Glyde to account for the wickedness he has committed . 
What have I to do with your determination ? You shall hear . 
There are certain events in Sir Percival's past life which it is necessary for my purpose to be fully acquainted with . 
YOU know them and for that reason I come to YOU . 
What events do you mean ? Events that occurred at Old Welmingham when your husband was parish clerk at that place , and before the time when your daughter was born . 
I had reached the woman at last through the barrier of impenetrable reserve that she had tried to set up between us . 
I saw her temper smouldering in her eyes as plainly as I saw her hands grow restless , then unclasp themselves , and begin mechanically smoothing her dress over her knees . 
What do you know of those events ? she asked . 
All that Mrs. Clements could tell me , I answered . 
Ah ! I begin to understand it all now , she said , her tamed and disciplined anger only expressing itself in the elaborate mockery of her tone and manner . 
You have got a grudge of your own against Sir Percival Glyde , and I must help you to wreak it . 
I must tell you this , that , and the other about Sir Percival and myself , must I ? Yes , indeed ? You have been prying into my private affairs . 
I see through you and your precious speculation I do ! and it amuses me . 
Ha ! ha ! She stopped for a moment , her arms tightened over her bosom , and she laughed to herself a hard , harsh , angry laugh . 
You don't know how I have lived in this place , and what I have done in this place , Mr. What's your name , she went on . 
I'll tell you , before I ring the bell and have you shown out . 
I came here a wronged woman I came here robbed of my character and determined to claim it back . 
I've been years and years about it and I HAVE claimed it back . 
I have matched the respectable people fairly and openly on their own ground . 
If they say anything against me now they must say it in secret they can't say it , they daren't say it , openly . 
I stand high enough in this town to be out of your reach . 
THE CLERGYMAN BOWS TO ME . 
Aha ! you didn't bargain for that when you came here . 
Go to the church and inquire about me you will find Mrs. Catherick has her sitting like the rest of them , and pays the rent on the day it's due . 
Go to the town hall . 
There's a petition lying there a petition of the respectable inhabitants against allowing a circus to come and perform here and corrupt our morals yes ! OUR morals . 
I signed that petition this morning . 
Go to the bookseller's shop . 
The clergyman's Wednesday evening Lectures on Justification by Faith are publishing there by subscription I'm down on the list . 
The doctor's wife only put a shilling in the plate at our last charity sermon I put half a crown . 
Mr. Churchwarden Soward held the plate , and bowed to me . 
Ten years ago he told Pigrum the chemist I ought to be whipped out of the town at the cart's tail . 
Ah ! there IS the clergyman coming along the square . 
The clergyman ceremoniously raised his hat , and walked on . 
Mrs. Catherick returned to her chair , and looked at me with a grimmer sarcasm than ever . 
I was not the less resolved , however , to make another effort to throw her off her guard . 
If the woman's fierce temper once got beyond her control , and once flamed out on me , she might yet say the words which would put the clue in my hands . 
How does your speculation look now ? she repeated . 
Exactly as it looked when I first came in , I answered . 
I don't doubt the position you have gained in the town , and I don't wish to assail it even if I could . 
I came here because Sir Percival Glyde is , to my certain knowledge , your enemy , as well as mine . 
If I have a grudge against him , you have a grudge against him too . 
Crush him for yourself , she said then come back here , and see what I say to you . 
She spoke those words as she had not spoken yet , quickly , fiercely , vindictively . 
I had stirred in its lair the serpent hatred of years , but only for a moment . 
Like a lurking reptile it leaped up at me as she eagerly bent forward towards the place in which I was sitting . 
Like a lurking reptile it dropped out of sight again as she instantly resumed her former position in the chair . 
You won't trust me ? I said . 
I pressed the point farther and farther home , I went on without allowing her a moment of delay . 
Sir Percival has a high position in the world , I said it would be no wonder if you were afraid of him . 
Sir Percival is a powerful man , a baronet , the possessor of a fine estate , the descendant of a great family She amazed me beyond expression by suddenly bursting out laughing . 
Yes , she repeated , in tones of the bitterest , steadiest contempt . 
A baronet , the possessor of a fine estate , the descendant of a great family . 
Yes , indeed ! A great family especially by the mother's side . 
I am not here to dispute with you about family questions , I said . 
I know nothing of Sir Percival's mother And you know as little of Sir Percival himself , she interposed sharply . 
I advise you not to be too sure of that , I rejoined . 
I know some things about him , and I suspect many more . 
What do you suspect ? I'll tell you what I DON'T suspect . 
I DON'T suspect him of being Anne's father . 
She started to her feet , and came close up to me with a look of fury . 
The secret between you and Sir Percival is not THAT secret , I persisted . 
The mystery which darkens Sir Percival's life was not born with your daughter's birth , and has not died with your daughter's death . 
She drew back a step . 
Go ! she said , and pointed sternly to the door . 
There was no thought of the child in your heart or in his , I went on , determined to press her back to her last defences . 
There was no bond of guilty love between you and him when you held those stolen meetings , when your husband found you whispering together under the vestry of the church . 
Her pointing hand instantly dropped to her side , and the deep flush of anger faded from her face while I spoke . 
For a minute or more we stood looking at each other in silence . 
Do you still refuse to trust me ? I asked . 
I do refuse , she said . 
Do you still tell me to go ? Yes . 
Go and never come back . 
I walked to the door , waited a moment before I opened it , and turned round to look at her again . 
I may have news to bring you of Sir Percival which you don't expect , I said , and in that case I shall come back . 
As I opened the door of the room to go out , she looked round at me quickly . 
The cruel smile slowly widened her lips she eyed me , with a strange stealthy interest , from head to foot an unutterable expectation showed itself wickedly all over her face . 
Without a word more , on my side or on hers , I left the room . 
As I opened the outer door , I saw the same clergyman who had already passed the house once , about to pass it again , on his way back through the square . 
I waited on the door step to let him go by , and looked round , as I did so , at the parlour window . 
Mrs. Catherick had heard his footsteps approaching , in the silence of that lonely place , and she was on her feet at the window again , waiting for him . 
He raised his hat once more . 
I saw the hard ghastly face behind the window soften , and light up with gratified pride I saw the head with the grim black cap bend ceremoniously in return . 
Before I had reached the turning which led out of the square , my attention was suddenly aroused by the sound of a closing door behind me . 
The man did not hesitate a moment about the direction he should take . 
He advanced rapidly towards the turning at which I had stopped . 
I waited where I was , to ascertain whether his object was to come to close quarters and speak on this occasion . 
To my surprise he passed on rapidly , without saying a word , without even looking up in my face as he went by . 
Without caring whether he saw me or not , I walked after him . 
He never looked back , and he led me straight through the streets to the railway station . 
The train was on the point of starting , and two or three passengers who were late were clustering round the small opening through which the tickets were issued . 
I joined them , and distinctly heard the lawyer's clerk demand a ticket for the Blackwater station I satisfied myself that he had actually left by the train before I came away . 
There was only one interpretation that I could place on what I had just seen and heard . 
I had unquestionably observed the man leaving a house which closely adjoined Mrs. Catherick's residence . 
He had been probably placed there , by Sir Percival's directions , as a lodger , in anticipation of my inquiries leading me , sooner or later , to communicate with Mrs. Catherick . 
, in order to be ready on the spot , if I returned to Hampshire . 
Before many days were over , there seemed every likelihood now that he and I might meet . 
When I left the station the winter evening was beginning to close in . 
There was little hope of continuing my inquiries after dark to any useful purpose in a neighbourhood that was strange to me . 
Accordingly , I made my way to the nearest hotel , and ordered my dinner and my bed . 
This done , I wrote to Marian , to tell her that I was safe and well , and that I had fair prospects of success . 
to The Post Office , Welmingham , and I now begged her to send her second day's letter to the same address . 
I could easily receive it by writing to the postmaster if I happened to be away from the town when it arrived . 
The coffee room of the hotel , as it grew late in the evening , became a perfect solitude . 
I was left to reflect on what I had accomplished that afternoon as uninterruptedly as if the house had been my own . 
I was prepared for her answering me confusedly or angrily , but the blank terror that seized her when I said the words took me completely by surprise . 
I had long before associated Sir Percival's Secret with the concealment of a serious crime which Mrs. Catherick knew of , but I had gone no further than this . 
It was a contemptible crime then and a dangerous crime , and she had shared in it , and it was associated with the vestry of the church . 
The next consideration to be disposed of led me a step farther from this point . 
Mrs. Catherick's undisguised contempt for Sir Percival plainly extended to his mother as well . 
She had referred with the bitterest sarcasm to the great family he had descended from especially by the mother's side . 
What did this mean ? There appeared to be only two explanations of it . 
Here again the register might , by offering written evidence of the marriage , prove to me , at any rate , that this doubt had no foundation in truth . 
The morning was cloudy and lowering , but no rain fell . 
I left my bag at the hotel to wait there till I called for it , and , after inquiring the way , set forth on foot for Old Welmingham church . 
It was a walk of rather more than two miles , the ground rising slowly all the way . 
On the highest point stood the church an ancient , weather beaten building , with heavy buttresses at its sides , and a clumsy square tower in front . 
The vestry at the back was built out from the church , and seemed to be of the same age . 
It was a dreary scene , and yet , in the worst aspect of its ruin , not so dreary as the modern town that I had just left . 
The tallest of the two a stout muscular man in the dress of a gamekeeper was a stranger to me . 
The other was one of the men who had followed me in London on the day when I left Mr. Kyrle's office . 
I had taken particular notice of him at the time and I felt sure that I was not mistaken in identifying the fellow on this occasion . 
It was exactly as I had supposed Sir Percival was already prepared for me . 
If I had wanted any further proof that my investigations had taken the right direction at last , the plan now adopted for watching me would have supplied it . 
I walked on away from the church till I reached one of the inhabited houses , with a patch of kitchen garden attached to it on which a labourer was at work . 
He directed me to the clerk's abode , a cottage at some little distance off , standing by itself on the outskirts of the forsaken village . 
The clerk was indoors , and was just putting on his greatcoat . 
of the place in which he lived , and a happy sense of superiority to his neighbours in virtue of the great personal distinction of having once been in London . 
It's well you came so early , sir , said the old man , when I had mentioned the object of my visit . 
I should have been away in ten minutes more . 
Parish business , sir , and a goodish long trot before it's all done for a man at my age . 
But , bless you , I'm strong on my legs still ! As long as a man don't give at his legs , there's a deal of work left in him . 
Don't you think so yourself , sir ? He took his keys down while he was talking from a hook behind the fireplace , and locked his cottage door behind us . 
Nobody at home to keep house for me , said the clerk , with a cheerful sense of perfect freedom from all family encumbrances . 
My wife's in the churchyard there , and my children are all married . 
A wretched place this , isn't it , sir ? But the parish is a large one every man couldn't get through the business as I do . 
It's learning does it , and I've had my share , and a little more . 
, and that's more than most of the people about here can do . 
You're from London , I suppose , sir ? I've been in London a matter of five and twenty year ago . 
What's the news there now , if you please ? Chattering on in this way , he led me back to the vestry . 
I looked about to see if the two spies were still in sight . 
They were not visible anywhere . 
After having discovered my application to the clerk , they had probably concealed themselves where they could watch my next proceedings in perfect freedom . 
I'm obliged to bring you this way , sir , he said , because the door from the vestry to the church is bolted on the vestry side . 
We might have got in through the church otherwise . 
This is a perverse lock , if ever there was one yet . 
It's big enough for a prison door it's been hampered over and over again , and it ought to be changed for a new one . 
I've mentioned that to the churchwarden fifty times over at least he's always saying , 'I'll see about it' and he never does see . 
Ah , It's a sort of lost corner , this place . 
Not like London is it , sir ? Bless you , we are all asleep here ! We don't march with the times . 
After some twisting and turning of the key , the heavy lock yielded , and he opened the door . 
The vestry was larger than I should have supposed it to be , judging from the outside only . 
It was a dim , mouldy , melancholy old room , with a low , raftered ceiling . 
Round two sides of it , the sides nearest to the interior of the church , ran heavy wooden presses , worm eaten and gaping with age . 
Hooked to the inner corner of one of these presses hung several surplices , all bulging out at their lower ends in an irreverent looking bundle of limp drapery . 
Behind them , in a corner , was a litter of dusty papers , some large and rolled up like architects' plans , some loosely strung together on files like bills or letters . 
The room had once been lighted by a small side window , but this had been bricked up , and a lantern skylight was now substituted for it . 
The atmosphere of the place was heavy and mouldy , being rendered additionally oppressive by the closing of the door which led into the church . 
This door also was composed of solid oak , and was bolted at the top and bottom on the vestry side . 
I'll tell you what , sir , as I said before , this is not London . 
We are all asleep here . 
Bless you , WE don't march with the times ! What is there in the packing cases ? I asked . 
Bits of old wood carvings from the pulpit , and panels from the chancel , and images from the organ loft , said the clerk . 
Portraits of the twelve apostles in wood , and not a whole nose among 'em . 
All broken , and worm eaten , and crumbling to dust at the edges . 
As brittle as crockery , sir , and as old as the church , if not older . 
But , bless you , the money fell short , and there they are , waiting for new subscriptions , and nobody to subscribe . 
It was all done a year ago , sir . 
Six gentlemen dined together about it , at the hotel in the new town . 
They made speeches , and passed resolutions , and put their names down , and printed off thousands of prospectuses . 
There the things are , as I said before . 
My anxiety to examine the register did not dispose me to offer much encouragement to the old man's talkativeness . 
I agreed with him that nobody could help the untidiness of the vestry , and then suggested that we should proceed to our business without more delay . 
Ay , ay , the marriage register , to be sure , said the clerk , taking a little bunch of keys from his pocket . 
How far do you want to look back , sir ? Marian had informed me of Sir Percival's age at the time when we had spoken together of his marriage engagement with Laura . 
She had then described him as being forty five years old . 
I want to begin with the year eighteen hundred and four , I said . 
Which way after that , sir ? asked the clerk . 
Forwards to our time or backwards away from us ? Backwards from eighteen hundred and four . 
He opened the door of one of the presses the press from the side of which the surplices were hanging and produced a large volume bound in greasy brown leather . 
I was struck by the insecurity of the place in which the register was kept . 
The door of the press was warped and cracked with age , and the lock was of the smallest and commonest kind . 
I could have forced it easily with the walking stick I carried in my hand . 
Is that considered a sufficiently secure place for the register ? I inquired . 
Those were the very words my old master was always saying years and years ago , when I was a lad . 
'why isn't it kept in an iron safe ? If I've heard him say that once , I've heard him say it a hundred times . 
He was the solicitor in those days , sir , who had the appointment of vestry clerk to this church . 
A fine hearty old gentleman , and the most particular man breathing . 
He used to take his pinch of snuff after that , and look about him as bold as a lord . 
Ah ! the like of him for doing business isn't easy to find now . 
You may go to London and not match him , even THERE . 
The clerk put on his spectacles , and turned over the leaves of the register , carefully wetting his finger and thumb at every third page . 
There it is , sir , said he , with another cheerful smack on the open volume . 
There's the year you want . 
As I was ignorant of the month in which Sir Percival was born , I began my backward search with the early part of the year . 
Under the heading of that month in the year I found the marriage . 
I looked carefully at the entry . 
It was at the bottom of a page , and was for want of room compressed into a smaller space than that occupied by the marriages above . 
The marriage immediately before it was impressed on my attention by the circumstance of the bridegroom's Christian name being the same as my own . 
was noticeable in another way from the large space it occupied , the record in this case registering the marriages of two brothers at the same time . 
The register of the marriage of Sir Felix Glyde was in no respect remarkable except for the narrowness of the space into which it was compressed at the bottom of the page . 
The information about his wife was the usual information given in such cases . 
She was described as Cecilia Jane Elster , of Park View Cottages , Knowlesbury , only daughter of the late Patrick Elster , Esq . 
I noted down these particulars in my pocket book , feeling as I did so both doubtful and disheartened about my next proceedings . 
The Secret which I had believed until this moment to be within my grasp seemed now farther from my reach than ever . 
What suggestions of any mystery unexplained had arisen out of my visit to the vestry ? I saw no suggestions anywhere . 
What progress had I made towards discovering the suspected stain on the reputation of Sir Percival's mother ? The one fact I had ascertained vindicated her reputation . 
Fresh doubts , fresh difficulties , fresh delays began to open before me in interminable prospect . 
What was I to do next ? The one immediate resource left to me appeared to be this . 
Have you found what you wanted , sir ? said the clerk , as I closed the register book . 
Yes , I replied , but I have some inquiries still to make . 
I got this place , sir , persisted my talkative old friend , through the clerk before me leaving it . 
They say he was driven out of house and home by his wife and she's living still down in the new town there . 
I don't know the rights of the story myself all I know is I got the place . 
Mr. Wansborough got it for me the son of my old master that I was tell you of . 
He's a free pleasant gentleman as ever lived rides to the hounds , keeps his pointers and all that . 
He's vestry clerk here now as his father was before him . 
Yes , to be sure , sir , replied the clerk . 
Old Mr. Wansborough lived at Knowlesbury , and young Mr. Wansborough lives there too . 
You said just now he was vestry clerk , like his father before him . 
I am not quite sure that I know what a vestry clerk is . 
Don't you indeed , sir ? and you come from London too ! Every parish church , you know , has a vestry clerk and a parish clerk . 
The vestry clerk is a sort of an appointment that the lawyers get , and if there's any business to be done for the vestry , why there they are to do it . 
It's just the same in London . 
Every parish church there has got its vestry clerk and you may take my word for it he's sure to be a lawyer . 
Nigh on five mile , I can tell you ! It was still early in the forenoon . 
Resolving to go at once to Knowlesbury on foot , I led the way out of the vestry . 
Thank you kindly , sir , said the clerk , as I slipped my little present into his hand . 
I wish I was going your way it's pleasant to meet with gentlemen from London in a lost corner like this . 
Wish you good morning , sir , and thank you kindly once more . 
The three stood talking together for a little while , then separated . 
The man in black went away by himself towards Welmingham the other two remained together , evidently waiting to follow me as soon as I walked on . 
I proceeded on my way without letting the fellows see that I took any special notice of them . 
They caused me no conscious irritation of feeling at that moment on the contrary , they rather revived my sinking hopes . 
In the surprise of discovering the evidence of the marriage , I had forgotten the inference I had drawn on first perceiving the men in the neighbourhood of the vestry . 
X Once out of sight of the church , I pressed forward briskly on my way to Knowlesbury . 
The road was , for the most part , straight and level . 
Whenever I looked back over it I saw the two spies steadily following me . 
For the greater part of the way they kept at a safe distance behind . 
But once or twice they quickened their pace , as if with the purpose of overtaking me , then stopped , consulted together , and fell back again to their former position . 
They had some special object evidently in view , and they seemed to be hesitating or differing about the best means of accomplishing it . 
I could not guess exactly what their design might be , but I felt serious doubts of reaching Knowlesbury without some mischance happening to me on the way . 
that I must be getting near to the town , when I suddenly heard the steps of the men close behind me . 
passed rapidly on my left side and hustled me with his shoulder . 
He instantly shouted for help . 
I repressed the first natural movement by which I had attempted to shake them off , and looked about to see if there was any person near to whom I could appeal . 
A labourer was at work in an adjoining field who must have witnessed all that had passed . 
I called to him to follow us to the town . 
He shook his head with stolid obstinacy , and walked away in the direction of a cottage which stood back from the high road . 
At the same time the men who held me between them declared their intention of charging me with an assault . 
I was cool enough and wise enough now to make no opposition . 
Drop your hold of my arms , I said , and I will go with you to the town . 
The man in the gamekeeper's dress roughly refused . 
But the shorter man was sharp enough to look to consequences , and not to let his companion commit himself by unnecessary violence . 
He made a sign to the other , and I walked on between them with my arms free . 
We reached the turning in the road , and there , close before us , were the suburbs of Knowlesbury . 
One of the local policemen was walking along the path by the roadside . 
The men at once appealed to him . 
He replied that the magistrate was then sitting at the town hall , and recommended that we should appear before him immediately . 
We went on to the town hall . 
The clerk made out a formal summons , and the charge was preferred against me , with the customary exaggeration and the customary perversion of the truth on such occasions . 
inquired if any one on or near the road had witnessed the assault , and , greatly to my surprise , the complainant admitted the presence of the labourer in the field . 
I was enlightened , however , as to the object of the admission by the magistrate's next words . 
The whole object of the stratagem was now disclosed to me . 
It had been so managed as to make a remand necessary in a town where I was a perfect stranger , and where I could not hope to get my liberty on bail . 
The remand merely extended over three days , until the next sitting of the magistrate . 
At the end of the three days the charge would , no doubt , be withdrawn , and the attendance of the witness would be perfectly useless . 
I had the folly to call for writing materials , and to think of privately communicating my real position to the magistrate . 
The hopelessness and the imprudence of this proceeding failed to strike me before I had actually written the opening lines of the letter . 
I determined to communicate the situation in which I was placed to Mr. Dawson , of Oak Lodge . 
I now wrote , referring to this letter , and to what I had previously told Mr. Dawson of the delicate and dangerous nature of my inquiries . 
I had not revealed to him the truth about Laura , having merely described my errand as being of the utmost importance to private family interests with which Miss Halcombe was concerned . 
I obtained permission to hire a messenger to drive away at once with my letter in a conveyance which might be used to bring the doctor back immediately . 
Oak Lodge was on the Knowlesbury side of Blackwater . 
The man declared he could drive there in forty minutes , and could bring Mr. Dawson back in forty more . 
It was not quite half past one when the messenger departed . 
Before half past three he returned , and brought the doctor with him . 
Mr. Dawson's kindness , and the delicacy with which he treated his prompt assistance quite as a matter of course , almost overpowered me . 
The bail required was offered , and accepted immediately . 
Before four o'clock , on that afternoon , I was shaking hands warmly with the good old doctor a free man again in the streets of Knowlesbury . 
Mr. Dawson hospitably invited me to go back with him to Oak Lodge , and take up my quarters there for the night . 
We parted with friendly assurances on both sides , and I turned my steps at once to Mr. Wansborough's office in the High Street . 
Time was now of the last importance . 
The news of my being free on bail would reach Sir Percival , to an absolute certainty , before night . 
I had found time to think while I was waiting for Mr. Dawson's arrival , and I had well employed it . 
On my way to Knowlesbury , I had only proposed to apply to Mr. Wansborough for information on the subject of Sir Percival's mother . 
My object now was to examine the duplicate register of Old Welmingham Church . 
Mr. Wansborough was in his office when I inquired for him . 
He was a jovial , red faced , easy looking man more like a country squire than a lawyer and he seemed to be both surprised and amused by my application . 
He had heard of his father's copy of the register , but had not even seen it himself . 
It had never been inquired after , and it was no doubt in the strong room among other papers that had not been disturbed since his father's death . 
that the old gentleman was not alive to hear his precious copy asked for at last . 
He would have ridden his favourite hobby harder than ever now . 
How had I come to hear of the copy ? was it through anybody in the town ? I parried the question as well as I could . 
I described myself , therefore , as pursuing a family inquiry , to the object of which every possible saving of time was of great importance . 
might supply what I required , and save me a further journey to Old Welmingham . 
I added that , in the event of my subsequently requiring a copy of the original register , I should make application to Mr. Wansborough's office to furnish me with the document . 
After this explanation no objection was made to producing the copy . 
A clerk was sent to the strong room , and after some delay returned with the volume . 
It was of exactly the same size as the volume in the vestry , the only difference being that the copy was more smartly bound . 
I took it with me to an unoccupied desk . 
On the blank page at the beginning , to which I first turned , were traced some lines in faded ink . 
They contained these words Copy of the Marriage Register of Welmingham Parish Church . 
Executed under my orders , and afterwards compared , entry by entry , with the original , by myself . 
Robert Wansborough , vestry clerk . 
Below this note there was a line added , in another handwriting , as follows Extending from the first of January , , to the thirtieth of June , . 
I turned to the month of September , eighteen hundred and three . 
I found the marriage of the man whose Christian name was the same as my own . 
I found the double register of the marriages of the two brothers . 
I looked again I was afraid to believe the evidence of my own eyes . 
No ! not a doubt . 
The marriage was not there . 
The entries on the copy occupied exact y the same places on the page as the entries in the original . 
The last entry on one page recorded the marriage of the man with my Christian name . 
to eighteen hundred and twenty seven , when Sir Percival appeared at Old Welmingham . 
My head turned giddy I held by the desk to keep myself from falling . 
Of all the suspicions which had struck me in relation to that desperate man , not one had been near the truth . 
Interests far more precious than my own depended on the caution which must now guide my slightest actions . 
There was no possible treachery which Sir Percival might not attempt against me . 
In the danger and desperation of his position he would be staggered by no risks , he would recoil at no crime he would literally hesitate at nothing to save himself . 
I considered for a minute . 
The copy of the register was sure to be safe in Mr. Wansborough's strong room . 
But the position of the original in the vestry was , as I had seen with my own eyes , anything but secure . 
In this emergency I resolved to return to the church , to apply again to the clerk , and to take the necessary extract from the register before I slept that night . 
I was not then aware that a legally certified copy was necessary , and that no document merely drawn out by myself could claim the proper importance as a proof . 
I was not aware of this , and my determination to keep my present proceedings a secret prevented me from asking any questions which might have procured the necessary information . 
My one anxiety was the anxiety to get back to Old Welmingham . 
It was just getting dark . 
The idea occurred to me that I might be followed again and attacked on the high road . 
My walking stick was a light one , of little or no use for purposes of defence . 
I stopped before leaving Knowlesbury and bought a stout country cudgel , short , and heavy at the head . 
With this homely weapon , if any one man tried to stop me I was a match for him . 
If more than one attacked me I could trust to my heels . 
In my school days I had been a noted runner , and I had not wanted for practice since in the later time of my experience in Central America . 
I started from the town at a brisk pace , and kept the middle of the road . 
A small misty rain was falling , and it was impossible for the first half of the way to make sure whether I was followed or not . 
I kept straight on , with my cudgel ready in my hand , my ears on the alert , and my eyes straining to see through the mist and the darkness . 
Before I had advanced a hundred yards there was a rustling in the hedge on my right , and three men sprang out into the road . 
I drew aside on the instant to the footpath . 
The two foremost men were carried beyond me before they could check themselves . 
The third was as quick as lightning . 
He stopped , half turned , and struck at me with his stick . 
The blow was aimed at hazard , and was not a severe one . 
It fell on my left shoulder . 
I returned it heavily on his head . 
He staggered back and jostled his two companions just as they were both rushing at me . 
This circumstance gave me a moment's start . 
I slipped by them , and took to the middle of the road again at the top of my speed . 
The two unhurt men pursued me . 
They were both good runners the road was smooth and level , and for the first five minutes or more I was conscious that I did not gain on them . 
It was perilous work to run for long in the darkness . 
I could barely see the dim black line of the hedges on either side , and any chance obstacle in the road would have thrown me down to a certainty . 
Ere long I felt the ground changing it descended from the level at a turn , and then rose again beyond . 
Downhill the men rather gained on me , but uphill I began to distance them . 
Diverging to the footpath , I made for the first break that I could guess at , rather than see , in the hedge . 
It proved to be a closed gate . 
I vaulted over , and finding myself in a field , kept across it steadily with my back to the road . 
I heard the men pass the gate , still running , then in a minute more heard one of them call to the other to come back . 
It was no matter what they did now , I was out of their sight and out of their hearing . 
I kept straight across the field , and when I had reached the farther extremity of it , waited there for a minute to recover my breath . 
It was impossible to venture back to the road , but I was determined nevertheless to get to Old Welmingham that evening . 
Neither moon nor stars appeared to guide me . 
I descended to the bottom of the hollow , squeezed my way through a hedge , and got out into a lane . 
Having turned to the right on leaving the road , I now turned to the left , on the chance of regaining the line from which I had wandered . 
After following the muddy windings of the lane for ten minutes or more , I saw a cottage with a light in one of the windows . 
The garden gate was open to the lane , and I went in at once to inquire my way . 
Before I could knock at the door it was suddenly opened , and a man came running out with a lighted lantern in his hand . 
He stopped and held it up at the sight of me . 
We both started as we saw each other . 
My wanderings had led me round the outskirts of the village , and had brought me out at the lower end of it . 
I was back at Old Welmingham , and the man with the lantern was no other than my acquaintance of the morning , the parish clerk . 
His manner appeared to have altered strangely in the interval since I had last seen him . 
He looked suspicious and confused his ruddy cheeks were deeply flushed and his first words , when he spoke , were quite unintelligible to me . 
Where are the keys ? he asked . 
Have you taken them ? What keys ? I repeated . 
I have this moment come from Knowlesbury . 
What keys do you mean ? The keys of the vestry . 
I've only just got back . 
I told you I had a long day's work this morning I locked the door and shut the window down it's open now , the window's open . 
Look ! somebody has got in there and taken the keys . 
He turned to the casement window to show me that it was wide open . 
The door of the lantern came loose from its fastening as he swayed it round , and the wind blew the candle out instantly . 
Get another light , I said , and let us both go to the vestry together . 
Quick ! quick ! I hurried him into the house . 
My impatience to reach the church was so great that I could not remain inactive in the cottage while the clerk lit the lantern again . 
I walked out , down the garden path , into the lane . 
Before I had advanced ten paces a man approached me from the direction leading to the church . 
He spoke respectfully as we met . 
I could not see his face , but judging by his voice only , he was a perfect stranger to me . 
I beg your pardon , Sir Percival he began . 
I stopped him before he could say more . 
The darkness misleads you , I said . 
I am not Sir Percival . 
The man drew back directly . 
I thought it was my master , he muttered , in a confused , doubtful way . 
You expected to meet your master here ? I was told to wait in the lane . 
With that answer he retraced his steps . 
I looked back at the cottage and saw the clerk coming out , with the lantern lighted once more . 
I took the old man's arm to help him on the more quickly . 
We hastened along the lane , and passed the person who had accosted me . 
As well as I could see by the light of the lantern , he was a servant out of livery . 
Who's that ? whispered the clerk . 
Does he know anything about the keys ? We won't wait to ask him , I replied . 
We will go on to the vestry first . 
The church was not visible , even by daytime , until the end of the lane was reached . 
I say , measter , said the boy , pulling officiously at the clerk's coat , there be summun up yander in the church . 
I heerd un lock the door on hisself I heerd un strike a loight wi' a match . 
The clerk trembled and leaned against me heavily . 
Come ! come ! I said encouragingly . 
We are not too late . 
We will catch the man , whoever he is . 
Keep the lantern , and follow me as fast as you can . 
I mounted the hill rapidly . 
The dark mass of the church tower was the first object I discerned dimly against the night sky . 
As I turned aside to get round to the vestry , I heard heavy footsteps close to me . 
The servant had ascended to the church after us . 
I don't mean any harm , he said , when I turned round on him , I'm only looking for my master . 
The tones in which he spoke betrayed unmistakable fear . 
I took no notice of him and went on . 
The instant I turned the corner and came in view of the vestry , I saw the lantern skylight on the roof brilliantly lit up from within . 
It shone out with dazzling brightness against the murky , starless sky . 
I hurried through the churchyard to the door . 
As I got near there was a strange smell stealing out on the damp night air . 
I heard a snapping noise inside I saw the light above grow brighter and brighter a pane of the glass cracked I ran to the door and put my hand on it . 
I heard the key worked violently in the lock I heard a man's voice behind the door , raised to a dreadful shrillness , screaming for help . 
The servant who had followed me staggered back shuddering , and dropped to his knees . 
The Lord have mercy on his soul ! said the old man . 
He is doomed and dead . 
He has hampered the lock . 
I rushed to the door . 
The one absorbing purpose that had filled all my thoughts , that had controlled all my actions , for weeks and weeks past , vanished in an instant from my mind . 
I remembered nothing but the horror of his situation . 
I felt nothing but the natural human impulse to save him from a frightful death . 
Try the other door ! I shouted . 
Try the door into the church ! The lock's hampered . 
You're a dead man if you waste another moment on it . 
There had been no renewed cry for help when the key was turned for the last time . 
There was no sound now of any kind , to give token that he was still alive . 
I heard nothing but the quickening crackle of the flames , and the sharp snap of the glass in the skylight above . 
I looked round at my two companions . 
The servant had risen to his feet he had taken the lantern , and was holding it up vacantly at the door . 
Terror seemed to have struck him with downright idiocy he waited at my heels , he followed me about when I moved like a dog . 
The clerk sat crouched up on one of the tombstones , shivering , and moaning to himself . 
The one moment in which I looked at them was enough to show me that they were both helpless . 
Hardly knowing what I did , acting desperately on the first impulse that occurred to me , I seized the servant and pushed him against the vestry wall . 
Stoop ! I said , and hold by the stones . 
I got on his back , with my cudgel in my mouth , seized the parapet with both hands , and was instantly on the roof . 
In the frantic hurry and agitation of the moment , it never struck me that I might let out the flame instead of letting in the air . 
I struck at the skylight , and battered in the cracked , loosened glass at a blow . 
The fire leaped out like a wild beast from its lair . 
If the wind had not chanced , in the position I occupied , to set it away from me , my exertions might have ended then and there . 
I crouched on the roof as the smoke poured out above me with the flame . 
And the man beneath my feet ! the man , suffocating , burning , dying so near us all , so utterly beyond our reach ! The thought half maddened me . 
I lowered myself from the roof , by my hands , and dropped to the ground . 
The key of the church ! I shouted to the clerk . 
We must try it that way we may save him yet if we can burst open the inner door . 
No , no , no ! cried the old man . 
There's a ingine in the town . 
I called to that man HE had his wits about him I called to him to come and speak to me . 
It would be a quarter of an hour at least before the town engine could reach us . 
The horror of remaining inactive all that time was more than I could face . 
In defiance of my own reason I persuaded myself that the doomed and lost wretch in the vestry might still be lying senseless on the floor , might not be dead yet . 
I appealed to the man who had spoken first of the fire engine in the town . 
Have you got your pick axes handy ? Yes , they had . 
And a hatchet , and a saw , and a bit of rope ? Yes ! yes ! yes ! I ran down among the villagers , with the lantern in my hand . 
Five shillings apiece to every man who helps me ! They started into life at the words . 
That ravenous second hunger of poverty the hunger for money roused them into tumult and activity in a moment . 
The women and the children fled back on either side . 
We rushed in a body down the churchyard path to the first empty cottage . 
Not a man was left behind but the clerk the poor old clerk standing on the flat tombstone sobbing and wailing over the church . 
The servant was still at my heels his white , helpless , panic stricken face was close over my shoulder as we pushed into the cottage . 
There were rafters from the torn down floor above , lying loose on the ground but they were too light . 
We attacked the beam at both ends at once . 
God ! how it held how the brick and mortar of the wall resisted us ! We struck , and tugged , and tore . 
The beam gave at one end it came down with a lump of brickwork after it . 
There was a scream from the women all huddled in the doorway to look at us a shout from the men two of them down but not hurt . 
Another tug all together and the beam was loose at both ends . 
We raised it , and gave the word to clear the doorway . 
One , two , three and off . 
Out rings the cheering again , irrepressibly . 
We have shaken it already , the hinges must give if the lock won't . 
Another run with the beam ! One , two , three and off . 
It's loose ! the stealthy fire darts at us through the crevice all round it . 
Another , and a last rush ! The door falls in with a crash . 
A great hush of awe , a stillness of breathless expectation , possesses every living soul of us . 
We look for the body . 
The scorching heat on our faces drives us back we see nothing above , below , all through the room , we see nothing but a sheet of living fire . 
Where is he ? whispered the servant , staring vacantly at the flames . 
He's dust and ashes , said the clerk . 
And the books are dust and ashes and oh , sirs ! the church will be dust and ashes soon . 
Those were the only two who spoke . 
When they were silent again , nothing stirred in the stillness but the bubble and the crackle of the flames . 
The people about me all turned from the fire , and ran eagerly to the brow of the hill . 
The old clerk tried to go with the rest , but his strength was exhausted . 
I saw him holding by one of the tombstones . 
Save the church ! he cried out faintly , as if the firemen could hear him already . 
Save the church ! The only man who never moved was the servant . 
There he stood , his eyes still fastened on the flames in a changeless , vacant stare . 
I spoke to him , I shook him by the arm . 
If help had been wanted from me I could not have afforded it now . 
My energy of will was gone my strength was exhausted the turmoil of my thoughts was fearfully and suddenly stilled , now I knew that he was dead . 
I stood useless and helpless looking , looking , looking into the burning room . 
I saw the fire slowly conquered . 
The brightness of the glare faded the steam rose in white clouds , and the smouldering heaps of embers showed red and black through it on the floor . 
The crowd drew back on either side in dead silence to let them pass . 
After a while a great shudder ran through the people , and the living lane widened slowly . 
The men came back along it with a door from one of the empty houses . 
They carried it to the vestry and went in . 
The police closed again round the doorway , and men stole out from among the crowd by twos and threes and stood behind them to be the first to see . 
Others waited near to be the first to hear . 
Women and children were among these last . 
The tidings from the vestry began to flow out among the crowd they dropped slowly from mouth to mouth till they reached the place where I was standing . 
I heard the questions and answers repeated again and again in low , eager tones all round me . 
Have they found him ? Yes . 
Where ? Against the door , on his face . 
Which door ? The door that goes into the church . 
His head was against it he was down on his face . 
Is his face burnt ? No. Yes , it is . 
No , scorched , not burnt he lay on his face , I tell you . 
Who was he ? A lord , they say . 
No , not a lord . 
SIR Something Sir means Knight . 
No. Yes , it does . 
What did he want in there ? No good , you may depend on it . 
Did he do it on purpose ? Burn himself on purpose ! I don't mean himself , I mean the vestry . 
Is he dreadful to look at ? Dreadful ! Not about the face , though ? No , no , not so much about the face . 
Don't anybody know him ? There's a man says he does . 
Who ? A servant , they say . 
But he's struck stupid like , and the police don't believe him . 
Don't anybody else know who it is ? Hush ! The loud , clear voice of a man in authority silenced the low hum of talking all round me in an instant . 
Where is the gentleman who tried to save him ? said the voice . 
Here , sir here he is ! Dozens of eager faces pressed about me dozens of eager arms parted the crowd . 
The man in authority came up to me with a lantern in his hand . 
This way , sir , if you please , he said quietly . 
I was unable to speak to him , I was unable to resist him when he took my arm . 
I tried to say that I had never seen the dead man in his lifetime that there was no hope of identifying him by means of a stranger like me . 
But the words failed on my lips . 
I was faint , and silent , and helpless . 
Do you know him , sir ? I was standing inside a circle of men . 
Three of them opposite to me were holding lanterns low down to the ground . 
Their eyes , and the eyes of all the rest , were fixed silently and expectantly on my face . 
I knew what was at my feet I knew why they were holding the lanterns so low to the ground . 
Can you identify him , sir ? My eyes dropped slowly . 
At first I saw nothing under them but a coarse canvas cloth . 
The dripping of the rain on it was audible in the dreadful silence . 
I looked up , along the cloth , and there at the end , stark and grim and black , in the yellow light there was his dead face . 
So , for the first and last time , I saw him . 
So the Visitation of God ruled it that he and I should meet . 
XI The inquest was hurried for certain local reasons which weighed with the coroner and the town authorities . 
It was held on the afternoon of the next day . 
I was necessarily one among the witnesses summoned to assist the objects of the investigation . 
My first proceeding in the morning was to go to the post office , and inquire for the letter which I expected from Marian . 
No change of circumstances , however extraordinary , could affect the one great anxiety which weighed on my mind while I was away from London . 
The morning's letter , which was the only assurance I could receive that no misfortune had happened in my absence , was still the absorbing interest with which my day began . 
To my relief , the letter from Marian was at the office waiting for me . 
Nothing had happened they were both as safe and as well as when I had left them . 
Laura sent her love , and begged that I would let her know of my return a day beforehand . 
I read these little domestic confidences in the bright morning with the terrible recollection of what had happened the evening before vivid in my memory . 
The necessity of sparing Laura any sudden knowledge of the truth was the first consideration which the letter suggested to me . 
In the case of any other woman , less courageous and less reliable , I might have hesitated before I ventured on unreservedly disclosing the whole truth . 
But I owed it to Marian to be faithful to my past experience of her , and to trust her as I trusted herself . 
My letter was necessarily a long one . 
It occupied me until the time came for proceeding to the inquest . 
The objects of the legal inquiry were necessarily beset by peculiar complications and difficulties . 
Even the identification of the dead man had not yet been accomplished . 
The helpless condition of the servant had made the police distrustful of his asserted recognition of his master . 
The crest and the name of Sir Percival Glyde were engraved inside it . 
The next inquiries related to the fire . 
The servant and I , and the boy who had heard the light struck in the vestry , were the first witnesses called . 
To my own relief , my examination was not a long one . 
The course that I was myself bound to take , when my formal examination had closed , seemed clear to me . 
In these pages , however , and after the time that has now elapsed , no such cautions and restraints as are here described need fetter the free expression of my opinion . 
The news of my being free on bail drove Sir Percival , as I believe , to his last resources . 
I cannot believe that it was any part of his intention to make the destruction of the register appear to be the result of accident , by purposely setting the vestry on fire . 
had been to attempt to escape by the door which had given him entrance . 
had been too much for him when he tried to escape by the inner door . 
He must have dropped in his death swoon , he must have sunk in the place where he was found , just as I got on the roof to break the skylight window . 
Even if we had been able , afterwards , to get into the church , and to burst open the door from that side , the delay must have been fatal . 
He would have been past saving , long past saving , by that time . 
This is the nearest approach that any theory of mine can make towards accounting for a result which was visible matter of fact . 
As I have described them , so events passed to us out side . 
As I have related it , so his body was found . 
The inquest was adjourned over one day no explanation that the eye of the law could recognise having been discovered thus far to account for the mysterious circumstances of the case . 
It was arranged that more witnesses should be summoned , and that the London solicitor of the deceased should be invited to attend . 
to assist his master , in the event of my escaping the attack on the road , and of a collision occurring between Sir Percival and myself . 
It is necessary to add , that the man's own testimony was never obtained to confirm this view . 
I withdrew from my scanty dinner to my cheap garret chamber to secure myself a little quiet , and to think undisturbed of Laura and Marian . 
If I had been a richer man I would have gone back to London , and would have comforted myself with a sight of the two dear faces again that night . 
But I was bound to appear , if called on , at the adjourned inquest , and doubly bound to answer my bail before the magistrate at Knowlesbury . 
The next day the day immediately following the inquest was left at my own disposal . 
I began the morning by again applying at the post office for my regular report from Marian . 
It was waiting for me as before , and it was written throughout in good spirits . 
What changes met me when I got there ! Through all the ways of our unintelligible world the trivial and the terrible walk hand in hand together . 
The irony of circumstances holds no mortal catastrophe in respect . 
When I reached the church , the trampled condition of the burial ground was the only serious trace left to tell of the fire and the death . 
A rough hoarding of boards had been knocked up before the vestry doorway . 
Rude caricatures were scrawled on it already , and the village children were fighting and shouting for the possession of the best peep hole to see through . 
He was gone and with him the chance was gone which had been the one object of all my labours and all my hopes . 
I had hoped so much , could not have been mine to suppress or to make public , as I thought best , for the vindication of Laura's rights . 
On my way to the hotel I passed the end of the square in which Mrs. Catherick lived . 
Should I go back to the house , and make another attempt to see her . 
No. That news of Sir Percival's death , which was the last news she ever expected to hear , must have reached her hours since . 
All the proceedings at the inquest had been reported in the local paper that morning there was nothing I could tell her which she did not know already . 
My interest in making her speak had slackened . 
I remembered the furtive hatred in her face when she said , There is no news of Sir Percival that I don't expect except the news of his death . 
I remembered the stealthy interest in her eyes when they settled on me at parting , after she had spoken those words . 
Some hours later , while I was resting in the coffee room , a letter was placed in my hands by the waiter . 
She had said nothing , and she had gone away again before there was time to speak to her , or even to notice who she was . 
It was neither dated nor signed , and the handwriting was palpably disguised . 
Before I had read the first sentence , however , I knew who my correspondent was Mrs. Catherick . 
The letter ran as follows I copy it exactly , word for word THE STORY CONTINUED BY MRS . 
CATHERICK SIR , You have not come back , as you said you would . 
No matter I know the news , and I write to tell you so . 
You were , and you HAVE worked it . 
You were weak enough , as I have heard , to try and save his life . 
If you had succeeded , I should have looked upon you as my enemy . 
Now you have failed , I hold you as my friend . 
Your inquiries frightened him into the vestry by night your inquiries , without your privity and against your will , have served the hatred and wreaked the vengeance of three and twenty vears . 
Thank you , sir , in spite of yourself . 
I owe something to the man who has done this . 
Well ! I can satisfy your curiosity , and pay my debt in that way . 
You SHALL discover them your curiosity shall be satisfied . 
I had a contemptible fool for a husband . 
I shall not call him by his name . 
Why should I ? It was not his own . 
He never had a name you know that , by this time , as well as I do . 
It will be more to the purpose to tell you how he worked himself into my good graces . 
I was born with the tastes of a lady , and he gratified them in other words , he admired me , and he made me presents . 
No woman can resist admiration and presents especially presents , provided they happen to be just the thing she wants . 
He was sharp enough to know that most men are . 
Naturally he wanted something in return all men do . 
And what do you think was the something ? The merest trifle . 
Nothing but the key of the vestry , and the key of the press inside it , when my husband's back was turned . 
Of course he lied when I asked him why he wished me to get him the keys in that private way . 
He might have saved himself the trouble I didn't believe him . 
But I liked my presents , and I wanted more . 
So I got him the keys , without my husband's knowledge , and I watched him , without his own knowledge . 
Once , twice , four times I watched him , and the fourth time I found him out . 
I was never over scrupulous where other people's affairs were concerned , and I was not over scrupulous about his adding one to the marriages in the register on his own account . 
Of course I knew it was wrong , but it did no harm to me , which was one good reason for not making a fuss about it . 
But I knew nothing , and I longed for the gold watch . 
All the conditions I insisted on were that he should take me into his confidence and tell me everything . 
I was as curious about his affairs then as you are about mine now . 
He granted my conditions why , you will see presently . 
This , put in short , is what I heard from him . 
He did not willingly tell me all that I tell you here . 
I drew some of it from him by persuasion and some of it by questions . 
I was determined to have all the truth , and I believe I got it . 
He knew no more than any one else of what the state of things really was between his father and mother till after his mother's death . 
Then his father confessed it , and promised to do what he could for his son . 
He died having done nothing not having even made a will . 
He came to England at once , and took possession of the property . 
There was no one to suspect him , and no one to say him nay . 
His father and mother had always lived as man and wife none of the few people who were acquainted with them ever supposed them to be anything else . 
was a distant relation , who had no idea of ever getting it , and who was away at sea when his father died . 
He had no difficulty so far he took possession , as a matter of course . 
But he could not borrow money on the property as a matter of course . 
There were two things wanted of him before he could do this . 
One was a certificate of his birth , and the other was a certificate of his parents' marriage . 
The certificate of his birth was easily got he was born abroad , and the certificate was there in due form . 
The other matter was a difficulty , and that difficulty brought him to Old Welmingham . 
But for one consideration he might have gone to Knowlesbury instead . 
I give you this fact on good authority Sir Felix mentioned it to his son as the reason why he had not married . 
, was alive still when he took possession of the property in the New Year of eighteen hundred and twenty seven . 
This awkward circumstance forced him to extend his inquiries to our neighbourhood . 
There no such danger existed , the former clergyman at our church having been dead for some years . 
Old Welmingham suited his purpose as well as Knowlesbury . 
His father had removed his mother from Knowlesbury , and had lived with her at a cottage on the river , a little distance from our village . 
People who had known his solitary ways when he was single did not wonder at his solitary ways when he was supposed to be married . 
He lived in our neighbourhood till he came in possession of the Park . 
It may surprise you to hear that what he really did to the marriage register was done on the spur of the moment done on second thoughts . 
, he had his answer ready at all events , if a question was ever raised about his right to the name and the estate . 
The sight of this chance altered all his plans . 
It was an opportunity he had never hoped for , or thought of and he took it you know how . 
The blank space , to have exactly tallied with his birth certificate , ought to have occurred in the July part of the register . 
It occurred in the September part instead . 
However , in this case , if suspicious questions were asked , the answer was not hard to find . 
He had only to describe himself as a seven months' child . 
I was fool enough , when he told me his story , to feel some interest and some pity for him which was just what he calculated on , as you will see . 
I thought him hardly used . 
It was not his fault that his father and mother were not married , and it was not his father's and mother's fault either . 
A more scrupulous woman than I was a woman who had not set her heart on a gold watch and chain would have found some excuses for him . 
At all events , I held my tongue , and helped to screen what he was about . 
, and some time afterwards in practising the handwriting . 
He gave me my watch and chain , and spared no expense in buying them both were of superior workmanship , and very expensive . 
I have got them still the watch goes beautifully . 
You said the other day that Mrs. Clements had told you everything she knew . 
In that case there is no need for me to write about the trumpery scandal by which I was the sufferer the innocent sufferer , I positively assert . 
But what you don't know is how it ended between that same gentleman and myself . 
You shall read and see how he behaved to me . 
Do me that justice , at least , after all I have done for you . 
He flatly refused , in so many words . 
I had a spirit of my own , and I told him they should know the truth from my lips . 
His reply was short , and to the point . 
If I spoke , I was a lost woman , as certainly as he was a lost man . 
Yes ! it had come to that . 
He had deceived me about the risk I ran in helping him . 
In those days the law was not so tender hearted as I hear it is now . 
Murderers were not the only people liable to be hanged , and women convicts were not treated like ladies in undeserved distress . 
He was hardly fool enough to drive me to downright desperation . 
I was not the sort of woman whom it was quite safe to hunt into a corner he knew that , and wisely quieted me with proposals for the future . 
for what I had suffered . 
He was quite willing generous scoundrel ! to make me a handsome yearly allowance , payable quarterly , on two conditions . 
First , I was to hold my tongue in my own interests as well as in his . 
Secondly , I was not to stir away from Welmingham without first letting him know , and waiting till I had obtained his permission . 
In my own neighbourhood , no virtuous female friends would tempt me into dangerous gossiping at the tea table . 
In my own neighbourhood , he would always know where to find me . 
A hard condition , that second one but I accepted it . 
What else was I to do ? I was left helpless , with the prospect of a coming incumbrance in the shape of a child . 
What else was I to do ? Cast myself on the mercy of my runaway idiot of a husband who had raised the scandal against me ? I would have died first . 
Besides , the allowance WAS a handsome one . 
The dress of Virtue , in our parts , was cotton print . 
Well ! my gratitude refuses you nothing . 
I will turn to a fresh page and give you the answer immediately . 
But you must excuse one thing you must excuse my beginning , Mr. Hartright , with an expression of surprise at the interest which you appear to have felt in my late daughter . 
It is quite unaccountable to me . 
If that interest makes you anxious for any particulars of her early life , I must refer you to Mrs. Clements , who knows more of the subject than I do . 
Pray understand that I do not profess to have been at all over fond of my late daughter . 
She was a worry to me from first to last , with the additional disadvantage of being always weak in the head . 
You like candour , and I hope this satisfies you . 
There is no need to trouble you with many personal particulars relating to those past times . 
It will be enough to say that I observed the terms of the bargain on my side , and that I enjoyed my comfortable income in return , paid quarterly . 
Now and then I got away and changed the scene for a short time , always asking leave of my lord and master first , and generally getting it . 
One of my longest trips away from home was the trip I took to Limmeridge to nurse a half sister there , who was dying . 
to look after my own interests in that direction . 
As things turned out , however , my pains were all thrown away , and I got nothing , because nothing was to be had . 
I never liked Mrs. Clements . 
She was a poor , empty headed , spiritless woman what you call a born drudge and I was now and then not averse to plaguing her by taking Anne away . 
Not knowing what else to do with my girl while I was nursing in Cumberland , I put her to school at Limmeridge . 
, amused me wonderfully by taking a violent fancy to my girl . 
The consequence was , she learnt nothing at school , and was petted and spoilt at Limmeridge House . 
Among other whims and fancies which they taught her there , they put some nonsense into her head about always wearing white . 
Hating white and liking colours myself , I determined to take the nonsense out of her head as soon as we got home again . 
Strange to say , my daughter resolute y resisted me . 
When she HAD got a notion once fixed in her mind she was , like other half witted people , as obstinate as a mule in keeping it . 
We quarrelled finely , and Mrs. Clements , not liking to see it , I suppose , offered to take Anne away to live in London with her . 
I should have said Yes , if Mrs. Clements had not sided with my daughter about her dressing herself in white . 
The circumstance took place long after the time I have just been writing of . 
I had been settled for years in the new town , and was steadily living down my bad character and slowly gaining ground among the respectable inhabitants . 
It helped me forward greatly towards this object to have my daughter with me . 
Her harmlessness and her fancy for dressing in white excited a certain amount of sympathy . 
I left off opposing her favourite whim on that account , because some of the sympathy was sure , in course of time , to fall to my share . 
Some of it did fall . 
I date my getting a choice of the two best sittings to let in the church from that time , and I date the clergyman's first bow from my getting the sittings . 
in answer to one of mine , warning him , according to agreement , of my wishing to leave the town for a little change of air and scene . 
I instantly ordered her out of the room until I had composed myself again . 
My sensations were not pleasant , I can tell you , when I came to reflect on my own folly . 
My worst fears for myself , my worst dread of what he might do , led me no farther than this . 
I was quite unprepared for what really did happen only the next day . 
On that next day , without any warning to me to expect him , he came to the house . 
They neither of them liked each other , and he vented the ill temper on HER which he was afraid to show to ME . 
Leave us , he said , looking at her over his shoulder . 
She looked back over HER shoulder and waited as if she didn't care to go . 
Do you hear ? he roared out , leave the room . 
Speak to me civilly , says she , getting red in the face . 
Turn the idiot out , says he , looking my way . 
She had always had crazy notions of her own about her dignity , and that word idiot upset her in a moment . 
Before I could interfere she stepped up to him in a fine passion . 
Beg my pardon , directly , says she , or I'll make it the worse for you . 
I'll let out your Secret . 
I can ruin you for life if I choose to open my lips . 
My own words ! repeated exactly from what I had said the day before repeated , in his presence , as if they had come from herself . 
He sat speechless , as white as the paper I am writing on , while I pushed her out of the room . 
When he recovered himself No ! I am too respectable a woman to mention what he said when he recovered himself . 
It ended , as you probably guess by this time , in his insisting on securing his own safety by shutting her up . 
I tried to set things right . 
I told him that she had merely repeated , like a parrot , the words she had heard me say and that she knew no particulars whatever , because I had mentioned none . 
In short , he would hear of nothing but shutting her up . 
Under these circumstances , I did my duty as a mother . 
No pauper Asylum , I said , I won't have her put in a pauper Asylum . 
A Private Establishment , if you please . 
It is gratifying to me to reflect that I did my duty . 
Though never overfond of my late daughter , I had a proper pride about her . 
No pauper stain thanks to my firmness and resolution ever rested on MY child . 
, I could not refuse to admit that there were certain advantages gained by shutting her up . 
on the footing of a lady . 
In the second place , she was kept away from Welmingham , where she might have set people suspecting and inquiring , by repeating my own incautious words . 
The only drawback of putting her under restraint was a very slight one . 
We merely turned her empty boast about knowing the Secret into a fixed delusion . 
She may have said the same thing to you , when you thoughtlessly assisted her escape . 
to the unfortunate woman who married our sweet tempered , nameless gentleman lately deceased . 
Have I satisfied your curiosity ? I have taken pains enough to satisfy it at any rate . 
There is really nothing else I have to tell you about myself or my daughter . 
My worst responsibilities , so far as she was concerned , were all over when she was secured in the Asylum . 
But these , and other trifles like them , are of little or no interest to you after what you have heard already . 
So far , I have written in the friendliest possible spirit . 
But I cannot close this letter without adding a word here of serious remonstrance and reproof , addressed to yourself . 
In the course of your personal interview with me , you audaciously referred to my late daughter's parentage on the father's side , as if that parentage was a matter of doubt . 
must not be tainted by loose conversation of any kind . 
If you allow yourself to doubt that my husband was Anne's father , you personally insult me in the grossest manner . 
On this side of the grave , Mr. Hartright , whatever may happen on the other , THAT curiosity will never be gratified . 
Perhaps , after what I have just said , you will see the necessity of writing me an apology . 
Do so , and I will willingly receive it . 
I will , afterwards , if your wishes point to a second interview with me , go a step farther , and receive you . 
My circumstances only enable me to invite you to tea not that they are at all altered for the worse by what has happened . 
It is not my intention to leave Welmingham . 
There are one or two little advantages which I have still to gain in the town . 
The clergyman bows to me as you saw . 
He is married , and his wife is not quite so civil . 
I propose to join the Dorcas Society , and I mean to make the clergyman's wife bow to me next . 
If you favour me with your company , pray understand that the conversation must be entirely on general subjects . 
Any attempted reference to this letter will be quite useless I am determined not to acknowledge having written it . 
The evidence has been destroyed in the fire , I know , but I think it desirable to err on the side of caution , nevertheless . 
My hour for tea is half past five , and my buttered toast waits for nobody . 
THE STORY CONTINUED BY WALTER HARTRIGHT I My first impulse , after reading Mrs. Catherick's extraordinary narrative , was to destroy it . 
This consideration was entirely unconnected with Sir Percival . 
The information communicated to me , so far as it concerned him , did little more than confirm the conclusions at which I had already arrived . 
Accordingly , I sealed up the letter and put it away carefully in my pocket book , to be referred to again when the time came . 
The next day was my last in Hampshire . 
My first errand in the morning was , as usual , to the post office . 
The letter from Marian was there , but I thought when it was handed to me that it felt unusually light . 
I anxiously opened the envelope . 
There was nothing inside but a small strip of paper folded in two . 
The few blotted hurriedly written lines which were traced on it contained these words Come back as soon as you can . 
I have been obliged to move . 
Come to Gower's Walk , Fulham . 
I will be on the look out for you . 
Don't be alarmed about us , we are both safe and well . 
The news which those lines contained news which I instantly associated with some attempted treachery on the part of Count Fosco fairly overwhelmed me . 
I stood breathless with the paper crumpled up in my hand . 
My absolute reliance on her was the one earthly consideration which helped me to restrain myself , and gave me courage to wait . 
The inquest was the first of the impediments in the way of my freedom of action . 
I attended it at the appointed time , the legal formalities requiring my presence in the room , but as it turned out , not calling on me to repeat my evidence . 
This useless delay was a hard trial , although I did my best to quiet my impatience by following the course of the proceedings as closely as I could . 
was among the persons present . 
But he was quite unable to assist the objects of the inquiry . 
He could only say that he was inexpressibly shocked and astonished , and that he could throw no light whatever on the mysterious circumstances of the case . 
At intervals during the adjourned investigation , he suggested questions which the Coroner put , but which led to no results . 
After a patient inquiry , which lasted nearly three hours , and which exhausted every available source of information , the jury pronounced the customary verdict in cases of sudden death by accident . 
This act closed the proceedings . 
The legal representative of the dead man was left to provide for the necessities of the interment , and the witnesses were free to retire . 
Resolved not to lose a minute in getting to Knowlesbury , I paid my bill at the hotel , and hired a fly to take me to the town . 
I accepted his proposal as a matter of course . 
Our conversation during the drive was naturally occupied by the one absorbing subject of local interest . 
Sir Percival's embarrassments were so well known all over the county that his solicitor could only make a virtue of necessity and plainly acknowledge them . 
was a son of Sir Felix Glyde's first cousin , an officer in command of an East Indiaman . 
had an interest of its own to attract my attention . 
I thought it justified me in keeping secret my discovery of Sir Percival's fraud . 
The heir , whose rights he had usurped , was the heir who would now have the estate . 
If I spoke , my speaking would confer advantage on no one . 
If I kept the secret , my silence concealed the character of the man who had cheated Laura into marrying him . 
For her sake , I wished to conceal it for her sake , still , I tell this story under feigned names . 
I parted with my chance companion at Knowlesbury , and went at once to the town hall . 
As I had anticipated , no one was present to prosecute the case against me the necessary formalities were observed , and I was discharged . 
On leaving the court a letter from Mr. Dawson was put into my hand . 
It informed me that he was absent on professional duty , and it reiterated the offer I had already received from him of any assistance which I might require at his hands . 
I wrote back , warmly acknowledging my obligations to his kindness , and apologising for not expressing my thanks personally , in consequence of my immediate recall on pressing business to town . 
Half an hour later I was speeding back to London by the express train . 
II It was between nine and ten o'clock before I reached Fulham , and found my way to Gower's Walk . 
Both Laura and Marian came to the door to let me in . 
I think we had hardly known how close the tie was which bound us three together , until the evening came which united us again . 
We met as if we had been parted for months instead of for a few days only . 
Marian's face was sadly worn and anxious . 
I saw who had known all the danger and borne all the trouble in my absence the moment I looked at her . 
Laura's brighter looks and better spirits told me how carefully she had been spared all knowledge of the dreadful death at Welmingham , and of the true reason of our change of abode . 
The stir of the removal seemed to have cheered and interested her . 
When Laura had left us , and when we could speak to one another without restraint , I tried to give some expression to the gratitude and the admiration which filled my heart . 
But the generous creature would not wait to hear me . 
That sublime self forgetfulness of women , which yields so much and asks so little , turned all her thoughts from herself to me . 
I had only a moment left before post time , she said , or I should have written less abruptly . 
You look worn and weary , Walter . 
I am afraid my letter must have seriously alarmed you ? Only at first , I replied . 
My mind was quieted , Marian , by my trust in you . 
Was I right in attributing this sudden change of place to some threatened annoyance on the part of Count Fosco ? Perfectly right , she said . 
I saw him yesterday , and worse than that , Walter I spoke to him . 
Spoke to him ? Did he know where we lived ? Did he come to the house ? He did . 
To the house but not upstairs . 
Laura never saw him Laura suspects nothing . 
I will tell you how it happened the danger , I believe and hope , is over now . 
Yesterday , I was in the sitting room , at our old lodgings . 
Laura was drawing at the table , and I was walking about and setting things to rights . 
I passed the window , and as I passed it , looked out into the street . 
I was too violently startled to be quite sure . 
Who was the other man ? A stranger ? Not a stranger , Walter . 
As soon as I could draw my breath again , I recognised him . 
He was the owner of the Lunatic Asylum . 
Was the Count pointing out the house to him ? No , they were talking together as if they had accidentally met in the street . 
I remained at the window looking at them from behind the curtain . 
If I had turned round , and if Laura had seen my face at that moment Thank God , she was absorbed over her drawing ! They soon parted . 
The man from the Asylum went one way , and the Count the other . 
I ran past Laura before she could see me , and said I had forgotten something upstairs . 
As soon as I was out of the room I went down to the first landing and waited I was determined to stop him if he tried to come upstairs . 
He made no such attempt . 
'dear lady , one word , I implore you , on a matter serious to us both . 
If one can think at all , in serious difficulties , one thinks quick . 
I felt directly that it might be a fatal mistake to leave myself and to leave you in the dark , where such a man as the Count was concerned . 
I felt that the doubt of what he might do , in your absence , would be ten times more trying to me if I declined to see him than if I consented . 
'Ask the gentleman to wait in the shop , I said . 
'I will be with him in a moment . 
I ran upstairs for my bonnet , being determined not to let him speak to me indoors . 
I knew his deep ringing voice , and I was afraid Laura might hear it , even in the shop . 
In less than a minute I was down again in the passage , and had opened the door into the street . 
He came round to meet me from the shop . 
All the horrible time at Blackwater came back to me the moment I set eyes on him . 
You remember what he said ? I can't repeat it , Walter . 
You shall know directly what he said about you but I can't repeat what he said to me . 
It was worse than the polite insolence of his letter . 
My hands tingled to strike him , as if I had been a man ! I only kept them quiet by tearing his card to pieces under my shawl . 
, and he followed , protesting softly all the way . 
In the first by street I turned , and asked him what he wanted with me . 
First , if I had no objection , to express his sentiments . 
I declined to hear them . 
Secondly , to repeat the warning in his letter . 
I asked , what occasion there was for repeating it . 
He bowed and smiled , and said he would explain . 
The explanation exactly confirmed the fears I expressed before you left us . 
Well , so it has really turned out . 
The Count offered his advice , but it was refused . 
Sir Percival would only take counsel of his own violence , his own obstinacy , and his own hatred of you . 
The Count let him have his way , first privately ascertaining , in case of his own interests being threatened next , where we lived . 
How he contrived to escape being seen by you he did not tell me , but he found us out on that occasion , and in that way . 
That was his purpose , on his own confession to me . 
The only consideration which made him hesitate , at the last moment Yes ? It is hard to acknowledge it , Walter , and yet I must . 
I was the only consideration . 
All he asked was that I would remember the sacrifice , and restrain your rashness , in my own interests interests which he might never be able to consult again . 
I made no such bargain with him I would have died first . 
I believe it , Marian . 
I doubt his power of annoying us , by means of the owner of the Asylum , now that Sir Percival is dead , and Mrs. Catherick is free from all control . 
But let me hear more . 
What did the Count say of me ? He spoke last of you . 
'Warn Mr. Hartright ! he said in his loftiest manner . 
'He has a man of brains to deal with , a man who snaps his big fingers at the laws and conventions of society , when he measures himself with ME . 
If my lamented friend had taken my advice , the business of the inquest would have been with the body of Mr. Hartright . 
But my lamented friend was obstinate . 
See ! I mourn his loss inwardly in my soul , outwardly on my hat . 
This trivial crape expresses sensibilities which I summon Mr. Hartright to respect . 
They may be transformed to immeasurable enmities if he ventures to disturb them . 
Let him be content with what he has got with what I leave unmolested , for your sake , to him and to you . 
, if he stirs me , he has Fosco to deal with . 
In the English of the Popular Tongue , I inform him Fosco sticks at nothing . 
Dear lady , good morning . 
His cold grey eyes settled on my face he took off his hat solemnly bowed , bare headed and left me . 
Without returning ? without saying more last words ? He turned at the corner of the street , and waved his hand , and then struck it theatrically on his breast . 
I lost sight of him after that . 
He disappeared in the opposite direction to our house , and I ran back to Laura . 
Before I was indoors again , I had made up my mind that we must go . 
was a place of danger instead of a place of safety , now that the Count had discovered it . 
If I could have felt certain of your return , I should have risked waiting till you came back . 
But I was certain of nothing , and I acted at once on my own impulse . 
You had spoken , before leaving us , of moving into a quieter neighbourhood and purer air , for the sake of Laura's health . 
She helped me to pack up your things , and she has arranged them all for you in your new working room here . 
What made you think of coming to this place ? My ignorance of other localities in the neighbourhood of London . 
I felt the necessity of getting as far away as possible from our old lodgings , and I knew something of Fulham , because I had once been at school there . 
I despatched a messenger with a note , on the chance that the school might still be in existence . 
It was in existence the daughters of my old mistress were carrying it on for her , and they engaged this place from the instructions I had sent . 
It was just post time when the messenger returned to me with the address of the house . 
We moved after dark we came here quite unobserved . 
Have I done right , Walter ? Have I justified your trust in me ? I answered her warmly and gratefully , as I really felt . 
But the anxious look still remained on her face while I was speaking , and the first question she asked , when I had done , related to Count Fosco . 
I saw that she was thinking of him now with a changed mind . 
No fresh outbreak of anger against him , no new appeal to me to hasten the day of reckoning escaped her . 
Not many weeks have passed , Marian , I answered , since my interview with Mr. Kyrle . 
One of those men is beyond mortal reach . 
The other remains , and my resolution remains . 
Her eyes lit up her colour rose . 
She said nothing , but I saw all her sympathies gathering to mine in her face . 
I don't disguise from myself , or from you , I went on , that the prospect before us is more than doubtful . 
I am not rash enough to measure myself against such a man as the Count before I am well prepared for him . 
I have learnt patience I can wait my time . 
This is one reason for waiting , but there is another more important still . 
My position , Marian , towards you and towards Laura ought to be a stronger one than it is now before I try our last chance . 
She leaned near to me , with a look of surprise . 
How can it be stronger ? she asked . 
I will tell you , I replied , when the time comes . 
It has not come yet it may never come at all . 
I may be silent about it to Laura for ever I must be silent now , even to YOU , till I see for myself that I can harmlessly and honourably speak . 
Let us leave that subject . 
There is another which has more pressing claims on our attention . 
Better that you should reveal it to her now , than that accident , which no one can guard against , should reveal it to her at some future time . 
Spare her all the details break it to her very tenderly , but tell her that he is dead . 
You have a reason , Walter , for wishing her to know of her husband's death besides the reason you have just mentioned ? I have . 
A reason connected with that subject which must not be mentioned between us yet ? which may never be mentioned to Laura at all ? She dwelt on the last words meaningly . 
When I answered her in the affirmative , I dwelt on them too . 
For a while she looked at me with a sad , hesitating interest . 
I think I understand , she said . 
I think I owe it to her and to you , Walter , to tell her of her husband's death . 
She sighed , and held my hand fast for a moment then dropped it abruptly , and left the room . 
On the next day Laura knew that his death had released her , and that the error and the calamity of her life lay buried in his tomb . 
His name was mentioned among us no more . 
It was not the less present in our minds it was rather kept alive in them by the restraint which we had imposed on ourselves . 
We both watched Laura more anxiously than ever , sometimes waiting and hoping , sometimes waiting and fearing , till the time came . 
By degrees we returned to our accustomed way of life . 
I resumed the daily work , which had been suspended during my absence in Hampshire . 
Emergencies might yet happen which would exhaust our little fund at the banker's , and the work of my hands might be , ultimately , all we had to look to for support . 
More permanent and more lucrative employment than had yet been offered to me was a necessity of our position a necessity for which I now diligently set myself to provide . 
That purpose was , for months and months yet , never to relax its claims on me . 
The slow ripening of it still left me a measure of precaution to take , an obligation of gratitude to perform , and a doubtful question to solve . 
The measure of precaution related , necessarily , to the Count . 
It was of the last importance to ascertain , if possible , whether his plans committed him to remaining in England or , in other words , to remaining within my reach . 
I contrived to set this doubt at rest by very simple means . 
The reply was in the negative . 
We were then at the beginning of December only . 
I left the agent with my mind relieved from all present fear of the Count's escaping me . 
The obligation I had to perform took me once more into the presence of Mrs. Clements . 
I had promised to return , and to confide to her those particulars relating to the death and burial of Anne Catherick which I had been obliged to withhold at our first interview . 
Changed as circumstances now were , there was no hindrance to my trusting the good woman with as much of the story of the conspiracy as it was necessary to tell . 
I had every reason that sympathy and friendly feeling could suggest to urge on me the speedy performance of my promise , and I did conscientiously and carefully perform it . 
There is no need to burden these pages with any statement of what passed at the interview . 
, to ask him certain questions . 
I made the inquiries in Marian's name , and described them as relating to matters of personal history in her family , which might explain and excuse my application . 
After a lapse of two days proof came , in the shape of a letter , that the Major was living , and that he was ready to help us . 
The idea in my mind when I wrote to him , and the nature of my inquiries . 
will be easily inferred from his reply . 
His letter answered my questions by communicating these important facts In the first place , the late Sir Percival Glyde , of Blackwater Park , had never set foot in Varneck Hall . 
The deceased gentleman was a total stranger to Major Donthorne , and to all his family . 
In the second place , the late Mr. Philip Fairlie , of Limmeridge House , had been , in his younger days , the intimate friend and constant guest of Major Donthorne . 
Mr. Philip Fairlie had been one of the notoriously handsome men of his time . 
Such were the facts we knew such was the character of the man . 
as plain looking , and as having entrapped the handsomest man in England into marrying her . 
Both assertions were gratuitously made , and both were false . 
appeared to me to be the only assignable cause for the peculiar insolence of her reference to Mrs. Fairlie , under circumstances which did not necessitate any reference at all . 
The mention here of Mrs. Fairlie's name naturally suggests one other question . 
Did she ever suspect whose child the little girl brought to her at Limmeridge might be ? Marian's testimony was positive on this point . 
It even seemed doubtful , on consideration , whether Mr. Philip Fairlie himself had been nearer than his wife to any suspicion of the truth . 
But for the fatal resemblance between the two daughters of one father , the conspiracy of which Anne had been the innocent instrument and Laura the innocent victim could never have been planned . 
I thought of the bygone days when I had met her by Mrs. Fairlie's grave , and met her for the last time . 
So the ghostly figure which has haunted these pages , as it haunted my life , goes down into the impenetrable gloom . 
Like a shadow she first came to me in the loneliness of the night . 
Like a shadow she passes away in the loneliness of the dead . 
April came the month of spring the month of change . 
The course of time had flowed through the interval since the winter peacefully and happily in our new home . 
I had turned my long leisure to good account , had largely increased my sources of employment , and had placed our means of subsistence on surer grounds . 
More pliable under change than her sister , Laura showed more plainly the progress made by the healing influences of her new life . 
My closest observations of her detected but one serious result of the conspiracy which had once threatened her reason and her life . 
At the slightest reference to that time she changed and trembled still , her words became confused , her memory wandered and lost itself as helplessly as ever . 
Here , and here only , the traces of the past lay deep too deep to be effaced . 
In all else she was now so far on the way to recovery that , on her best and brightest days , she sometimes looked and spoke like the Laura of old times . 
The happy change wrought its natural result in us both . 
Gradually and insensibly our daily relations towards each other became constrained . 
The fond words which I had spoken to her so naturally , in the days of her sorrow and her suffering , faltered strangely on my lips . 
The kiss seemed now to have dropped between us to be lost out of our lives . 
Our hands began to tremble again when they met . 
We hardly ever looked long at one another out of Marian's presence . 
The talk often flagged between us when we were alone . 
She had long intervals of silence and thoughtfulness , and denied she had been thinking when Marian asked her the question . 
Changed as all the circumstances now were , our position towards each other in the golden days of our first companionship seemed to be revived with the revival of our love . 
With this purpose in view , I said , one morning , that I thought we had all earned a little holiday and a change of scene . 
After some consideration , it was decided that we should go for a fortnight to the seaside . 
On the next day we left Fulham for a quiet town on the south coast . 
At that early season of the year we were the only visitors in the place . 
The cliffs , the beach , and the walks inland were all in the solitary condition which was most welcome to us . 
I owed it to Marian to consult her before I spoke to Laura , and to be guided afterwards by her advice . 
On the third day from our arrival I found a fit opportunity of speaking to her alone . 
The moment we looked at one another , her quick instinct detected the thought in my mind before I could give it expression . 
With her customary energy and directness she spoke at once , and spoke first . 
You are thinking of that subject which was mentioned between us on the evening of your return from Hampshire , she said . 
I have been expecting you to allude to it for some time past . 
There must be a change in our little household , Walter , we cannot go on much longer as we are now . 
I see it as plainly as you do as plainly as Laura sees it , though she says nothing . 
How strangely the old times in Cumberland seem to have come back ! You and I are together again , and the one subject of interest between us is Laura once more . 
I could almost fancy that this room is the summer house at Limmeridge , and that those waves beyond us are beating on our seashore . 
I was guided by your advice in those past days , I said , and now , Marian , with reliance tenfold greater I will be guided by it again . 
She answered by pressing my hand . 
I saw that she was deeply touched by my reference to the past . 
We sat together near the window , and while I spoke and she listened , we looked at the glory of the sunlight shining on the majesty of the sea . 
Whatever comes of this confidence between us , I said , whether it ends happily or sorrowfully for ME , Laura's interests will still be the interests of my life . 
In our present position I have no claim on her which society sanctions , which the law allows , to strengthen me in resisting him , and in protecting HER . 
This places me at a serious disadvantage . 
If I am to fight our cause with the Count , strong in the consciousness of Laura's safety , I must fight it for my Wife . 
Do you agree to that , Marian , so far ? To every word of it , she answered . 
But I may be wrong in my conviction other means of achieving our purpose may be in our power , which are less uncertain and less dangerous . 
I have searched anxiously , in my own mind , for those means , and I have not found them . 
Have you ? No. I have thought about it too , and thought in vain . 
In all likelihood , I continued , the same questions have occurred to you , in considering this difficult subject , which have occurred to me . 
Suppose the recognition of her obtained , and the identity of the handwriting established . 
money enough to carry this inquiry on through all its stages . 
We know only too well what the consequence would be , for we know that she has never recovered her memory of what happened to her in London . 
Examine her privately , or examine her publicly , she is utterly incapable of assisting the assertion of her own case . 
If you don't see this , Marian , as plainly as I see it , we will go to Limmeridge and try the experiment to morrow . 
I DO see it , Walter . 
You are right about the hopelessness of going to Limmeridge . 
I wish I could feel sure that you are right also in determining to try that last chance with the Count . 
IS it a chance at all ? Beyond a doubt , Yes . 
It is the chance of recovering the lost date of Laura's journey to London . 
There lies the weak point of the whole conspiracy it crumbles to pieces if we attack it in that way , and the means of attacking it are in possession of the Count . 
If I succeed in wresting them from him , the object of your life and mine is fulfilled . 
If I fail , the wrong that Laura has suffered will , in this world , never be redressed . 
Do you fear failure yourself , Walter ? I dare not anticipate success , and for that very reason , Marian , I speak openly and plainly as I have spoken now . 
In my heart and my conscience I can say it , Laura's hopes for the future are at their lowest ebb . 
My heart was full , my lips were trembling . 
In spite of myself I was in danger of appealing to her pity . 
I got up to leave the room . 
She rose at the same moment , laid her hand gently on my shoulder , and stopped me . 
Walter ! she said , I once parted you both , for your good and for hers . 
A tear dropped on my face as she kissed me . 
She turned quickly , pointed to the chair from which I had risen , and left the room . 
I sat down alone at the window to wait through the crisis of my life . 
My mind in that breathless interval felt like a total blank . 
I was conscious of nothing but a painful intensity of all familiar perceptions . 
The door opened , and Laura came in alone . 
So she had entered the breakfast room at Limmeridge House on the morning when we parted . 
Slowly and falteringly , in sorrow and in hesitation , she had once approached me . 
Now she came with the haste of happiness in her feet , with the light of happiness radiant in her face . 
Of their own accord those dear arms clasped themselves round me , of their own accord the sweet lips came to meet mine . 
My darling ! she whispered , we may own we love each other now ? Her head nestled with a tender contentedness on my bosom . 
Oh , she said innocently , I am so happy at last ! Ten days later we were happier still . 
IV The course of this narrative , steadily flowing on , bears me away from the morning time of our married life , and carries me forward to the end . 
In a fortnight more we three were back in London , and the shadow was stealing over us of the struggle to come . 
Marian and I were careful to keep Laura in ignorance of the cause that had hurried us back the necessity of making sure of the Count . 
It was now the beginning of May , and his term of occupation at the house in Forest Road expired in June . 
, I might be certain of his not escaping me . 
But if by any chance he disappointed my expectations and left the country , then I had no time to lose in arming myself to meet him as I best might . 
Yes ! let me own it honestly . 
For a brief time I wandered , in the sweet guiding of love , far from the purpose to which I had been true under sterner discipline and in darker days . 
Innocently Laura had tempted me aside from the hard path innocently she was destined to lead me back again . 
At times , dreams of the terrible past still disconnectedly recalled to her , in the mystery of sleep , the events of which her waking memory had lost all trace . 
That unconscious appeal , so touching and so awful in the sacredness of her sleep , ran through me like fire . 
The next day was the day we came back to London the day when my resolution returned to me with tenfold strength . 
The first necessity was to know something of the man . 
Thus far , the true story of his life was an impenetrable mystery to me . 
I began with such scanty sources of information as were at my own disposal . 
proved to be of no service to the special object with which I now looked at it . 
Here , again , the Count had not openly committed himself here , again , he was , to all practical purpose , out of my reach . 
I next returned to Marian's journal at Blackwater Park . 
At my request she read to me again a passage which referred to her past curiosity about the Count , and to the few particulars which she had discovered relating to him . 
The passage to which I allude occurs in that part of her journal which delineates his character and his personal appearance . 
She is inclined to consider that his long absence from his native country may be accounted for by assuming that he is a political exile . 
I applied it to him with the deliberate conviction that his vocation in life was the vocation of a spy . 
On this assumption , the reason for his extraordinary stay in England so long after the objects of the conspiracy had been gained , became , to my mind , quite intelligible . 
The year of which I am now writing was the year of the famous Crystal Palace Exhibition in Hyde Park . 
Foreigners in unusually large numbers had arrived already , and were still arriving in England . 
Men were among us by hundreds whom the ceaseless distrustfulness of their governments had followed privately , by means of appointed agents , to our shores . 
My surmises did not for a moment class a man of the Count's abilities and social position with the ordinary rank and file o foreign spies . 
Assuming that this idea of mine had a foundation in truth , the position of the Count might prove to be more assailable than I had hitherto ventured to hope . 
The first man whom I thought of under these circumstances was also the only Italian with whom I was intimately acquainted my quaint little friend , Professor Pesca . 
The professor has been so long absent from these pages that he has run some risk of being forgotten altogether . 
For this reason , not Pesca alone , but my mother and sister as well , have been left far in the background of the narrative . 
It is nothing that they added to my anxieties and embittered my disappointments the steady march of events has inexorably passed them by . 
If I had felt justified in accepting the offers of service which he made to me on my return , he would have appeared again long ere this . 
He was as true and as ready a friend of mine still as ever he had been in his life . 
Before I summoned Pesca to my assistance it was necessary to see for myself what sort of man I had to deal with . 
Up to this time I had never once set eyes on Count Fosco . 
Three days after my return with Laura and Marian to London , I set forth alone for Forest Road , St . 
John's Wood , between ten and eleven o'clock in the morning . 
It was a fine day I had some hours to spare and I thought it likely , if I waited a little for him , that the Count might be tempted out . 
No one appeared at the windows in the front of the house . 
I walked down a turning which ran past the side of it , and looked over the low garden wall . 
One of the back windows on the lower floor was thrown up and a net was stretched across the opening . 
Come out on my little finger , my pret pret pretties ! cried the voice . 
I waited a little while , and the singing and the whistling ceased . 
Come , kiss me , my pretties ! said the deep voice . 
There was a responsive twittering and chirping a low , oily laugh a silence of a minute or so , and then I heard the opening of the house door . 
I turned and retraced my steps . 
The magnificent melody of the Prayer in Rossini's Moses , sung in a sonorous bass voice , rose grandly through the suburban silence of the place . 
The front garden gate opened and closed . 
The Count had come out . 
He crossed the road and walked towards the western boundary of the Regent's Park . 
I kept on my own side of the way , a little behind him , and walked in that direction also . 
Marian had prepared me for his high stature , his monstrous corpulence , and his ostentatious mourning garments , but not for the horrible freshness and cheerfulness and vitality of the man . 
He carried his sixty years as if they had been fewer than forty . 
If a stranger had been told that the whole neighbourhood belonged to him , that stranger would not have been surprised to hear it . 
In this way he led me on , till we reached a colony of shops outside the western terraces of the Park . 
, and came out again immediately with a tart in his hand . 
An Italian was grinding an organ before the shop , and a miserable little shrivelled monkey was sitting on the instrument . 
The Count stopped , bit a piece for himself out of the tart , and gravely handed the rest to the monkey . 
My poor little man ! he said , with grotesque tenderness , you look hungry . 
In the sacred name of humanity , I offer you some lunch ! The organ grinder piteously put in his claim to a penny from the benevolent stranger . 
The Count shrugged his shoulders contemptuously , and passed on . 
We reached the streets and the better class of shops between the New Road and Oxford Street . 
The Count stopped again and entered a small optician's shop , with an inscription in the window announcing that repairs were neatly executed inside . 
He read the bill attentively , considered a moment , and then hailed an empty cab as it passed him . 
Opera Box office , he said to the man , and was driven away . 
I crossed the road , and looked at the bill in my turn . 
The performance announced was Lucrezia Borgia , and it was to take place that evening . 
The opera glass in the Count's hand , his careful reading of the bill , and his direction to the cabman , all suggested that he proposed making one of the audience . 
This consideration at once decided the disposal of my evening . 
I procured the tickets , leaving a note at the Professor's lodgings on the way . 
At a quarter to eight I called to take him with me to the theatre . 
Are you ready ? I asked . 
Right all right , said Pesca . 
We started for the theatre . 
V The last notes of the introduction to the opera were being played , and the seats in the pit were all filled , when Pesca and I reached the theatre . 
There was plenty of room , however , in the passage that ran round the pit precisely the position best calculated to answer the purpose for which I was attending the performance . 
I went first to the barrier separating us from the stalls , and looked for the Count in that part of the theatre . 
Returning along the passage , on the left hand side from the stage , and looking about me attentively , I discovered him in the pit . 
He occupied an excellent place , some twelve or fourteen seats from the end of a bench , within three rows of the stalls . 
I placed myself exactly on a line with him . 
Pesca standing by my side . 
The Professor was not yet aware of the purpose for which I had brought him to the theatre , and he was rather surprised that we did not move nearer to the stage . 
The curtain rose , and the opera began . 
Throughout the whole of the first act we remained in our position the Count , absorbed by the orchestra and the stage , never casting so much as a chance glance at us . 
Not a note of Donizetti's delicious music was lost on him . 
There he sat , high above his neighbours , smiling , and nodding his great head enjoyingly from time to time . 
At such times , his oily murmur of approval , Bravo ! Bra a a a ! hummed through the silence , like the purring of a great cat . 
His immediate neighbours on either side hearty , ruddy faced people from the country , basking amazedly in the sunshine of fashionable London seeing and hearing him , began to follow his lead . 
Many a burst of applause from the pit that night started from the soft , comfortable patting of the black gloved hands . 
The man's voracious vanity devoured this implied tribute to his local and critical supremacy with an appearance of the highest relish . 
Smiles rippled continuously over his fat face . 
He looked about him , at the pauses in the music , serenely satisfied with himself and his fellow creatures . 
Yes ! yes ! these barbarous English people are learning something from ME . 
The curtain fell on the first act , and the audience rose to look about them . 
This was the time I had waited for the time to try if Pesca knew him . 
He rose with the rest , and surveyed the occupants of the boxes grandly with his opera glass . 
This was the moment I chose , when his full face was in view , for directing Pesca's attention to him . 
Do you know that man ? I asked . 
Which man , my friend ? The tall , fat man , standing there , with his face towards us . 
Pesca raised himself on tiptoe , and looked at the Count . 
No , said the Professor . 
The big fat man is a stranger to me . 
Is he famous ? Why do you point him out ? Because I have particular reasons for wishing to know something of him . 
He is a countryman of yours his name is Count Fosco . 
Do you know that name ? Not I , Walter . 
Neither the name nor the man is known to me . 
Are you quite sure you don't recognise him ? Look again look carefully . 
I will tell you why I am so anxious about it when we leave the theatre . 
Stop ! let me help you up here , where you can see him better . 
I helped the little man to perch himself on the edge of the raised dais upon which the pit seats were all placed . 
His small stature was no hindrance to him here he could see over the heads of the ladies who were seated near the outermost part of the bench . 
Our conversation might have reached his ears , and might , as it struck me , have roused his curiosity . 
Meanwhile , Pesca fixed his eyes earnestly on the broad , full , smiling face turned a little upward , exactly opposite to him . 
No , he said , I have never set my two eyes on that big fat man before in all my life . 
As he spoke the Count looked downwards towards the boxes behind us on the pit tier . 
The eyes of the two Italians met . 
The instant before I had been perfectly satisfied , from his own reiterated assertion , that Pesca did not know the Count . 
He had apparently drawn his inference from the effect produced on the Count by the sight of Pesca as I had drawn mine . 
He was a mild , gentlemanlike man , looking like a foreigner , and his interest in our proceedings was not expressed in anything approaching to an offensive manner . 
Pesca roused me by stepping back to his former place at my side and speaking first . 
How the fat man stares ! he exclaimed . 
Is it at ME ? Am I famous ? How can he know me when I don't know him ? I kept my eye still on the Count . 
I saw him move for the first time when Pesca moved , so as not to lose sight of the little man in the lower position in which he now stood . 
Pesca immediately raised the large opera glass to his eyes , and moved it slowly all round the upper part of the theatre , searching for his pupils with the most conscientious scrutiny . 
When we reached the lobby the Count had disappeared , and the foreigner with the scar was gone too . 
Come home , I said come home , Pesca to your lodgings . 
I must speak to you in private I must speak directly . 
My soul bless my soul ! cried the Professor , in a state of the extremest bewilderment . 
What on earth is the matter ? I walked on rapidly without answering . 
The circumstances under which the Count had left the theatre suggested to me that his extraordinary anxiety to escape Pesca might carry him to further extremities still . 
He might escape me , too , by leaving London . 
I doubted the future if I allowed him so much as a day's freedom to act as he pleased . 
And I doubted that foreign stranger , who had got the start of us , and whom I suspected of intentionally following him out . 
With this double distrust in my mind , I was not long in making Pesca understand what I wanted . 
My friend , what can I do ? cried the Professor , piteously appealing to me with both hands . 
Pesca ! there must be a reason for this . 
Look back into your own life before you came to England . 
You left Italy , as you have told me yourself , for political reasons . 
You have never mentioned those reasons to me , and I don't inquire into them now . 
I only ask you to consult your own recollections , and to say if they suggest no past cause for the terror which the first sight of you produced in that man . 
To my unutterable surprise , these words , harmless as they appeared to ME , produced the same astounding effect on Pesca which the sight of Pesca had produced on the Count . 
The rosy face of my little friend whitened in an instant , and he drew back from me slowly , trembling from head to foot . 
You don't know what you ask . 
He spoke in a whisper he looked at me as if I had suddenly revealed to him some hidden danger to both of us . 
Forgive me , if I have unintentionally pained and shocked you , I replied . 
Remember the cruel wrong my wife has suffered at Count Fosco's hands . 
Remember that the wrong can never be redressed , unless the means are in my power of forcing him to do her justice . 
I spoke in HER interests , Pesca I ask you again to forgive me I can say no more . 
He stopped me before I reached the door . 
You have shaken me from head to foot . 
You don't know how I left my country , and why I left my country . 
Let me compose myself , let me think , if I can . 
I returned to my chair . 
He walked up and down the room , talking to himself incoherently in his own language . 
After several turns backwards and forwards , he suddenly came up to me , and laid his little hands with a strange tenderness and solemnity on my breast . 
He left me again , opened the door of the room and looked out cautiously into the passage , closed it once more , and came back . 
You won your right over me , Walter , he said , on the day when you saved my life . 
It was yours from that moment , when you pleased to take it . 
Yes ! I mean what I say . 
My next words , as true as the good God is above us , will put my life into your hands . 
The trembling earnestness with which he uttered this extraordinary warning , carried with it , to my mind , the conviction that he spoke the truth . 
Mind this ! he went on , shaking his hands at me in the vehemence of his agitation . 
I hold no thread , in my own mind , between that man Fosco , and the past time which I call back to me for your sake . 
My first and last concealments from the reader are those which caution renders absolutely necessary in this portion of the narrative . 
You know nothing of my motive for leaving Italy , he began , except that it was for political reasons . 
If I had been driven to this country by the persecution of my government , I should not have kept those reasons a secret from you or from any one . 
I have concealed them because no government authority has pronounced the sentence of my exile . 
When I came to this country , I came by the direction of my chief . 
I was over zealous in my younger time I ran the risk of compromising myself and others . 
For those reasons I was ordered to emigrate to England and to wait . 
I emigrated I have waited I wait still . 
To morrow I may be called away ten years hence I may be called away . 
It is all one to me I am here , I support myself by teaching , and I wait . 
in making my confidence complete by telling you the name of the society to which I belong . 
All I do is to put my life in your hands . 
If what I say to you now is ever known by others to have passed my lips , as certainly as we two sit here , I am a dead man . 
He whispered the next words in my ear . 
I keep the secret which he thus communicated . 
The principles of the Brotherhood are two . 
So long as a man's life is useful , or even harmless only , he has the right to enjoy it . 
It is not for me to say in what frightful circumstances of oppression and suffering this society took its rise . 
The iron that has entered into our souls has gone too deep for you to find it . 
So far , he resumed , you think the society like other societies . 
Its object is anarchy and revolution . 
It takes the life of a bad king or a bad minister , as if the one and the other were dangerous wild beasts to be shot at the first opportunity . 
But the laws of the Brotherhood are the laws of no other political society on the face of the earth . 
The members are not known to one another . 
There is a president in Italy there are presidents abroad . 
Each of these has his secretary . 
With such a safeguard as this there is no oath among us on admittance . 
We are identified with the Brotherhood by a secret mark , which we all bear , which lasts while our lives last . 
Sometimes the death is delayed sometimes it follows close on the treachery . 
It is our first business to know how to wait our second business to know how to obey when the word is spoken . 
Some of us may wait our lives through , and may not be wanted . 
Some of us may be called to the work , or to the preparation for the work , the very day of our admission . 
I must remain in it now it has got me , whatever I may think of it in my better circumstances and my cooler manhood , to my dying day . 
I began to understand him I saw the end towards which his extraordinary disclosure was now tending . 
He waited a moment , watching me earnestly watching till he had evidently guessed what was passing in my mind before he resumed . 
You have drawn your own conclusion already , he said . 
I see it in your face . 
Tell me nothing keep me out of the secret of your thoughts . 
Let me make my one last sacrifice of myself , for your sake , and then have done with this subject , never to return to it again . 
He signed to me not to answer him rose removed his coat and rolled up the shirt sleeve on his left arm . 
I promised you that this confidence should be complete , he whispered , speaking close at my ear , with his eyes looking watchfully at the door . 
Whatever comes of it you shall not reproach me with having hidden anything from you which it was necessary to your interests to know . 
I have said that the Brotherhood identifies its members by a mark that lasts for life . 
See the place , and the mark on it for yourself . 
I abstain from describing the device which the brand represented . 
It will be sufficient to say that it was circular in form , and so small that it would have been completely covered by a shilling coin . 
A man who has this mark , branded in this place , he said , covering his arm again , is a member of the Brotherhood . 
A man who has been false to the Brotherhood is discovered sooner or later by the chiefs who know him presidents or secretaries , as the case may be . 
And a man discovered by the chiefs is dead . 
NO HUMAN LAWS CAN PROTECT HIM . 
Remember what you have seen and heard draw what conclusions YOU like act as you please . 
I am ignorant of his proceedings or his purposes in England . 
I never saw him , I never heard the name he goes by , to my knowledge , before to night . 
Leave me a little , Walter . 
I am overpowered by what has happened I am shaken by what I have said . 
Let me try to be like myself again when we meet next . 
He dropped into a chair , and turning away from me , hid his face in his hands . 
I gently opened the door so as not to disturb him , and spoke my few parting words in low tones , which he might hear or not , as he pleased . 
I will keep the memory of to night in my heart of hearts , I said . 
You shall never repent the trust you have reposed in me . 
Come to my little bit of breakfast before I go my ways among the pupils that I teach . 
Good night , my friend . 
I looked at my watch it was ten o'clock . 
Not the shadow of a doubt crossed my mind of the purpose for which the Count had left the theatre . 
His escape from us , that evening , was beyond all question the preliminary only to his escape from London . 
It was easy to understand why that recognition had not been mutual . 
A man of the Count's character would never risk the terrible consequences of turning spy without looking to his personal security quite as carefully as he looked to his golden reward . 
The accident of time might have helped him as well his immense corpulence might have come with his later years . 
I have said that I felt certain of the purpose in the Count's mind when he escaped us at the theatre . 
One of us must be master of the situation one of us must inevitably be at the mercy of the other . 
I owed it to myself to consider the chances against me before I confronted them . 
I owed it to my wife to do all that lay in my power to lessen the risk . 
The chances against me wanted no reckoning up they were all merged in one . 
The only means of defence against him on which I could at all rely to lessen the risk , presented themselves , after a little careful thinking , clearly enough . 
This idea occurred to me when I was close to the new lodgings which we had taken on returning from the sea side . 
I went in without disturbing any one , by the help of my key . 
A letter addressed to Pesca represented the surest measure of precaution which it was now possible for me to take . 
I wrote as follows The man whom I pointed out to you at the Opera is a member of the Brotherhood , and has been false to his trust . 
Put both these assertions to the test instantly . 
You know the name he goes by in England . 
His address is No. Forest Road , St . 
On the love you once bore me , use the power entrusted to you without mercy and without delay against that man . 
I have risked all and lost all and the forfeit of my failure has been paid with my life . 
I signed and dated these lines , enclosed them in an envelope , and sealed it up . 
On the outside I wrote this direction Keep the enclosure unopened until nine o'clock to morrow morning . 
If you do not hear from me , or see me , before that time , break the seal when the clock strikes , and read the contents . 
I added my initials , and protected the whole by enclosing it in a second sealed envelope , addressed to Pesca at his lodgings . 
Nothing remained to be done after this but to find the means of sending my letter to its destination immediately . 
I should then have accomplished all that lay in my power . 
If anything happened to me in the Count's house , I had now provided for his answering it with his life . 
That the means of preventing his escape , under any circumstances whatever , were at Pesca's disposal , if he chose to exert them , I did not for an instant doubt . 
I left my room to go down to the ground floor of the house , and speak to the landlord about finding me a messenger . 
He happened to be ascending the stairs at the time , and we met on the landing . 
His son , a quick lad , was the messenger he proposed to me on hearing what I wanted . 
We had the boy upstairs , and I gave him his directions . 
It was then nearly half past ten . 
I calculated that the boy might be back in twenty minutes , and that I might drive to St . 
John's Wood , on his return , in twenty minutes more . 
This done , I went down stairs to the sitting room , in which I expected to find Laura and Marian awaiting my return from the Opera . 
I felt my hand trembling for the first time when I laid it on the lock of the door . 
No one was in the room but Marian . 
She was reading , and she looked at her watch , in surprise , when I came in . 
How early you are back ! she said . 
You must have come away before the Opera was over . 
Yes , I replied , neither Pesca nor I waited for the end . 
Where is Laura ? She had one of her bad headaches this evening , and I advised her to go to bed when we had done tea . 
I left the room again on the pretext of wishing to see whether Laura was asleep . 
Marian's quick eyes were beginning to look inquiringly at my face Marian's quick instinct was beginning to discover that I had something weighing on my mind . 
When I entered the bedchamber , and softly approached the bedside by the dim flicker of the night lamp , my wife was asleep . 
We had not been married quite a month yet . 
I only touched her hand and her cheek with my lips at parting . 
She stirred in her sleep and murmured my name , but without waking . 
I lingered for an instant at the door to look at her again . 
God bless and keep you , my darling ! I whispered , and left her . 
Marian was at the stairhead waiting for me . 
She had a folded slip of paper in her hand . 
The landlord's son has brought this for you , she said . 
He has got a cab at the door he says you ordered him to keep it at your disposal . 
I want the cab I am going out again . 
I descended the stairs as I spoke , and looked into the sitting room to read the slip of paper by the light on the table . 
It contained these two sentences in Pesca's handwriting Your letter is received . 
If I don't see you before the time you mention , I will break the seal when the clock strikes . 
I placed the paper in my pocket book , and made for the door . 
Marian met me on the threshold , and pushed me back into the room , where the candle light fell full on my face . 
She held me by both hands , and her eyes fastened searchingly on mine . 
I see ! she said , in a low eager whisper . 
You are trying the last chance to night . 
Yes , the last chance and the best , I whispered back . 
Not alone ! Oh , Walter , for God's sake , not alone ! Let me go with you . 
Don't refuse me because I'm only a woman . 
I must go ! I will go ! I'll wait outside in the cab ! It was my turn now to hold HER . 
She tried to break away from me and get down first to the door . 
If you want to help me , I said , stop here and sleep in my wife's room to night . 
Only let me go away with my mind easy about Laura , and I answer for everything else . 
Come , Marian , give me a kiss , and show that you have the courage to wait till I come back . 
I dared not allow her time to say a word more . 
She tried to hold me again . 
I unclasped her hands , and was out of the room in a moment . 
The boy below heard me on the stairs , and opened the hall door . 
I jumped into the cab before the driver could get off the box . 
John's Wood , I called to him through the front window . 
Double fare if you get there in a quarter of an hour . 
I'll do it , sir . 
I looked at my watch . 
Not a minute to lose . 
As we left the streets , and crossed St . 
Just as a church clock in the distance struck the quarter past , we turned into the Forest Road . 
I stopped the driver a little away from the Count's house , paid and dismissed him , and walked on to the door . 
As I approached the garden gate , I saw another person advancing towards it also from the direction opposite to mine . 
We met under the gas lamp in the road , and looked at each other . 
I instantly recognised the light haired foreigner with the scar on his cheek , and I thought he recognised me . 
He said nothing , and instead of stopping at the house , as I did , he slowly walked on . 
Was he in the Forest Road by accident ? Or had he followed the Count home from the Opera ? I did not pursue those questions . 
After waiting a little till the foreigner had slowly passed out of sight , I rang the gate bell . 
It was then twenty minutes past eleven late enough to make it quite easy for the Count to get rid of me by the excuse that he was in bed . 
Accordingly , while I was waiting , I took out my card and wrote under my name On important business . 
The maid servant answered the door while I was writing the last word in pencil , and asked me distrustfully what I pleased to want . 
Be so good as to take that to your master , I replied , giving her the card . 
She was staggered by the confidence with which I gave her the card . 
After staring at me , in great perturbation , she went back into the house with my message , closing the door , and leaving me to wait in the garden . 
In a minute or so she reappeared . 
She left me again , again returned , and this time asked me to walk in . 
I followed her at once . 
In another moment I was inside the Count's house . 
She cast one viperish look at me as I entered the hall , but said nothing , and went slowly upstairs without returning my bow . 
My familiarity with Marian's journal sufficiently assured me that the elderly lady was Madame Fosco . 
The servant led me to the room which the Countess had just left . 
I entered it , and found myself face to face with the Count . 
He was still in his evening dress , except his coat , which he had thrown across a chair . 
His shirt sleeves were turned up at the wrists , but no higher . 
A carpet bag was on one side of him , and a box on the other . 
Books , papers , and articles of wearing apparel were scattered about the room . 
On a table , at one side of the door , stood the cage , so well known to me by description , which contained his white mice . 
The canaries and the cockatoo were probably in some other room . 
He was seated before the box , packing it , when I went in , and rose with some papers in his hand to receive me . 
His face still betrayed plain traces of the shock that had overwhelmed him at the Opera . 
You come here on business , sir ? he said . 
I am at a loss to know what that business can possibly he . 
The unconcealed curiosity , with which he looked hard in my face while he spoke , convinced me that I had passed unnoticed by him at the Opera . 
He had seen Pesca first , and from that moment till he left the theatre he had evidently seen nothing else . 
I am fortunate in finding you here to night , I said . 
You seem to be on the point of taking a journey ? Is your business connected with my journey ? In some degree . 
In what degree ? Do you know where I am going to ? No. I only know why you are leaving London . 
He slipped by me with the quickness of thought , locked the door , and put the key in his pocket . 
You and I , Mr. Hartright , are excellently well acquainted with one another by reputation , he said . 
And I have not come to trifle with you . 
I walked farther into the room , and stood opposite to him on the rug before the fireplace . 
He drew a chair in front of the door , and sat down on it , with his left arm resting on the table . 
Those words are more serious , perhaps , than you think . 
What do you mean ? What I say . 
The perspiration broke out thickly on his broad forehead . 
His left hand stole over the edge of the table . 
There was a drawer in it , with a lock , and the key was in the lock . 
His finger and thumb closed over the key , but did not turn it . 
So you know why I am leaving London ? he went on . 
Tell me the reason , if you please . 
He turned the key , and unlocked the drawer as he spoke . 
I can do better than that , I replied . 
I can SHOW you the reason , if you like . 
How can you show it ? You have got your coat off , I said . 
Roll up the shirt sleeve on your left arm , and you will see it there . 
The same livid leaden change passed over his face which I had seen pass over it at the theatre . 
The deadly glitter in his eyes shone steady and straight into mine . 
But his left hand slowly opened the table drawer , and softly slipped into it . 
The harsh grating noise of something heavy that he was moving unseen to me sounded for a moment , then ceased . 
The silence that followed was so intense that the faint ticking nibble of the white mice at their wires was distinctly audible where I stood . 
My life hung by a thread , and I knew it . 
Wait a little , I said . 
You have got the door locked you see I don't move you see my hands are empty . 
I have something more to say . 
You have said enough , he replied , with a sudden composure so unnatural and so ghastly that it tried my nerves as no outbreak of violence could have tried them . 
I want one moment for my own thoughts , if you please . 
Do you guess what I am thinking about ? Perhaps I do . 
I am thinking , he remarked quietly , whether I shall add to the disorder in this room by scattering your brains about the fireplace . 
If I had moved at that moment , I saw in his face that he would have done it . 
I advise you to read two lines of writing which I have about me , I rejoined , before you finally decide that question . 
The proposal appeared to excite his curiosity . 
He read the lines aloud Your letter is received . 
If I don't hear from you before the time you mention , I will break the seal when the clock strikes . 
Another man in his position would have needed some explanation of those words the Count felt no such necessity . 
One reading of the note showed him the precaution that I had taken as plainly as if he had been present at the time when I adopted it . 
The expression of his face changed on the instant , and his hand came out of the drawer empty . 
I don't lock up my drawer , Mr. Hartright , he said , and I don't say that I may not scatter your brains about the fireplace yet . 
But I am a just man even to my enemy , and I will acknowledge beforehand that they are cleverer brains than I thought them . 
Come to the point , sir ! You want something of me ? I do , and I mean to have it . 
On conditions ? On no conditions . 
His hand dropped into the drawer again . 
Bah ! we are travelling in a circle , he said , and those clever brains of yours are in danger again . 
Respect me , if you love your own life ! I summon you to answer three questions before you open your lips again . 
Hear them they are necessary to this interview . 
Answer them they are necessary to ME . 
He held up one finger of his right hand . 
First question ! he said . 
You come here possessed of information which may be true or may be false where did you get it ? I decline to tell you . 
No matter I shall find out . 
I note that circumstance for future use in my memory , which forgets nothing , and proceed . 
He held up another finger . 
Second question ! Those lines you invited me to read are without signature . 
Who wrote them ? A man whom I have every reason to depend on , and whom you have every reason to fear . 
My answer reached him to some purpose . 
His left hand trembled audibly in the drawer . 
Give me a plainer answer , Mr. Hartright . 
What hour is the clock to strike ? Nine , to morrow morning . 
Nine , to morrow morning ? Yes , yes your trap is laid for me before I can get my passport regulated and leave London . 
In the meantime , be so good next as to mention your terms . 
They are simple , and soon stated . 
You know whose interests I represent in coming here ? He smiled with the most supreme composure , and carelessly waved his right hand . 
I consent to hazard a guess , he said jeeringly . 
A lady's interests , of course ! My Wife's interests . 
He looked at me with the first honest expression that had crossed his face in my presence an expression of blank amazement . 
I could see that I sank in his estimation as a dangerous man from that moment . 
He shut up the drawer at once , folded his arms over his breast , and listened to me with a smile of satirical attention . 
You are guilty of an infamous conspiracy ! And the gain of a fortune of ten thousand pounds was your motive for it . 
But his face became overclouded suddenly by a lowering anxiety . 
Keep your gain , I said . 
I am not here to disgrace myself by bargaining for money which has passed through your hands , and which has been the price of a vile crime Gently , Mr. Hartright . 
Your moral clap traps have an excellent effect in England keep them for yourself and your own countrymen , if you please . 
The ten thousand pounds was a legacy left to my excellent wife by the late Mr. Fairlie . 
Place the affair on those grounds , and I will discuss it if you like . 
To a man of my sentiments , however , the subject is deplorably sordid . 
I prefer to pass it over . 
I invite you to resume the discussion of your terms . 
What do you demand ? In the first place , I demand a full confession of the conspiracy , written and signed in my presence by yourself . 
He raised his finger again . 
One ! he said , checking me off with the steady attention of a practical man . 
So ! so ! you can lay your finger , I see , on the weak place , he remarked composedly . 
Any more ? At present , no more . 
Good ! you have mentioned your terms , now listen to mine . 
The responsibility to myself of admitting what you are pleased to call the 'conspiracy' is less , perhaps , upon the whole , than the responsibility of laying you dead on that hearthrug . 
Let us say that I meet your proposal on my own conditions . 
The statement you demand of me shall be written , and the plain proof shall be produced . 
These things I can do , and will do , on conditions . 
First condition ! Madame Fosco and I leave this house when and how we please , without interference of any kind on your part . 
Second condition ! You wait here , in company with me , to see my agent , who is coming at seven o'clock in the morning to regulate my affairs . 
You give my agent a written order to the man who has got your sealed letter to resign his possession of it . 
And yet I cannot honestly say that my own moral convictions were strong enough to decide the struggle in me by themselves . 
They were helped by my remembrance of Sir Percival's death . 
It was hard , when I had fastened my hold on him at last , to loosen it again of my own accord but I forced myself to make the sacrifice . 
In plainer words , I determined to be guided by the one higher motive of which I was certain , the motive of serving the cause of Laura and the cause of Truth . 
I accept your conditions , I said . 
With one reservation on my part . 
What reservation may that be ? he asked . 
It refers to the sealed letter , I answered . 
I require you to destroy it unopened in my presence as soon as it is placed in your hands . 
My object in making this stipulation was simply to prevent him from carrying away written evidence of the nature of my communication with Pesca . 
The fact of my communication he would necessarily discover , when I gave the address to his agent in the morning . 
But he could make no use of it on his own unsupported testimony even if he really ventured to try the experiment which need excite in me the slightest apprehension on Pesca's account . 
I grant your reservation , he replied , after considering the question gravely for a minute or two . 
It is not worth dispute the letter shall be destroyed when it comes into my hands . 
He rose , as he spoke , from the chair in which he had been sitting opposite to me up to this time . 
With one effort he appeared to free his mind from the whole pressure on it of the interview between us thus far . 
Ouf ! he cried , stretching his arms luxuriously , the skirmish was hot while it lasted . 
Take a seat , Mr. Hartright . 
We meet as mortal enemies here after let us , like gallant gentlemen , exchange polite attentions in the meantime . 
Permit me to take the liberty of calling for my wife . 
He unlocked and opened the door . 
Eleanor ! he called out in his deep voice . 
The lady of the viperish face came in Madame Fosco Mr. Hartright , said the Count , introducing us with easy dignity . 
Madame Fosco bowed her head twice once sternly to me , once submissively to her husband , and glided out of the room . 
The Count walked to a writing table near the window , opened his desk , and took from it several quires of paper and a bundle of quill pens . 
I shall make this a remarkable document , he said , looking at me over his shoulder . 
Habits of literary composition are perfectly familiar to me . 
One of the rarest of all the intellectual accomplishments that a man can possess is the grand faculty of arranging his ideas . 
Immense privilege ! I possess it . 
Sincerely as I loathed the man , the prodigious strength of his character , even in its most trivial aspects , impressed me in spite of myself . 
The coffee was brought in by Madame Fosco . 
He kissed her hand in grateful acknowledgment , and escorted her to the door returned , poured out a cup of coffee for himself , and took it to the writing table . 
May I offer you some coffee , Mr. Hartright ? he said , before he sat down . 
What ! you think I shall poison you ? he said gaily . 
He dipped his pen in the ink , placed the first slip of paper before him with a thump of his hand on the desk , cleared his throat , and began . 
Each slip as he finished it was paged , and tossed over his shoulder out of his way on the floor . 
When his first pen was worn out , THAT went over his shoulder too , and he pounced on a second from the supply scattered about the table . 
Hour after hour passed and there I sat watching , there he sat writing . 
He never stopped , except to sip his coffee , and when that was exhausted , to smack his forehead from time to time . 
At four o'clock I heard a sudden splutter of the pen , indicative of the flourish with which he signed his name . 
Bravo ! he cried , springing to his feet with the activity of a young man , and looking me straight in the face with a smile of superb triumph . 
Done , Mr. Hartright I he announced with a self renovating thump of his fist on his broad breast . 
Done , to my own profound satisfaction to YOUR profound astonishment , when you read what I have written . 
The subject is exhausted the man Fosco is not . 
I proceed to the arrangement of my slips to the revision of my slips to the reading of my slips addressed emphatically to your private ear . 
Four o'clock has just struck . 
Good ! Arrangement , revision , reading , from four to five . 
Short snooze of restoration for myself from five to six . 
Final preparations from six to seven . 
Affair of agent and sealed letter from seven to eight . 
At eight , en route . 
The reader will have an opportunity , ere long , of forming his own opinion of the document . 
It will be sufficient to mention here that it answered my purpose . 
He next wrote me the address of the person from whom he had hired the fly , and handed me Sir Percival's letter . 
It was dated from Hampshire on the th of July , and it announced the journey of Lady Glyde to London on the th . 
when the doctor's certificate declared that she had died in St . 
A quarter past five , said the Count , looking at his watch . 
Time for my restorative snooze . 
I personally resemble Napoleon the Great , as you may have remarked , Mr. Hartright I also resemble that immortal man in my power of commanding sleep at will . 
I will summon Madame Fosco , to keep you from feeling dull . 
The lady came in , cool , pale , and venomous as ever . 
Amuse Mr. Hartright , my angel , said the Count . 
Madame Fosco took a book from the table , sat down , and looked at me , with the steady vindictive malice of a woman who never forgot and never forgave . 
I have been listening to your conversation with my husband , she said . 
If I had been in HIS place I would have laid you dead on the hearthrug . 
With those words she opened her book , and never looked at me or spoke to me from that time till the time when her husband woke . 
He opened his eyes and rose from the sofa , accurately to an hour from the time when he had gone to sleep . 
I feel infinitely refreshed , he remarked . 
Eleanor , my good wife , are you all ready upstairs ? That is well . 
My little packing here can be completed in ten minutes my travelling dress assumed in ten minutes more . 
What remains before the agent comes ? He looked about the room , and noticed the cage with his white mice in it . 
Ah ! he cried piteously , a last laceration of my sympathies still remains . 
My cockatoo , my canaries , and my little mice who will cherish them when their good Papa is gone ? He walked about the room deep in thought . 
He had not been at all troubled about writing his confession , but he was visibly perplexed and distressed about the far more important question of the disposal of his pets . 
After long consideration he suddenly sat down again at the writing table . 
An idea ! he exclaimed . 
I will offer my canaries and my cockatoo to this vast Metropolis my agent shall present them in my name to the Zoological Gardens of London . 
The Document that describes them shall be drawn out on the spot . 
He began to write , repeating the words as they flowed from his pen . 
Cockatoo of transcendent plumage attraction , of himself , to all visitors of taste . 
Canaries of unrivalled vivacity and intelligence worthy of the garden of Eden , worthy also of the garden in the Regent's Park . 
The pen spluttered again , and the flourish was attached to his signature . 
Count ! you have not included the mice , said Madame Fosco He left the table , took her hand , and placed it on his heart . 
All human resolution , Eleanor , he said solemnly , has its limits . 
MY limits are inscribed on that Document . 
I cannot part with my white mice . 
Bear with me , my angel , and remove them to their travelling cage upstairs . 
Admirable tenderness ! said Madame Fosco , admiring her husband , with a last viperish look in my direction . 
She took up the cage carefully , and left the room . 
The Count looked at his watch . 
In spite of his resolute assumption of composure , he was getting anxious for the agent's arrival . 
The candles had long since been extinguished , and the sunlight of the new morning poured into the room . 
It was not till five minutes past seven that the gate bell rang , and the agent made his appearance . 
He was a foreigner with a dark beard . 
Mr. Hartright Monsieur Rubelle , said the Count , introducing us . 
into a corner of the room , whispered some directions to him , and then left us together . 
Monsieur Rubelle , as soon as we were alone , suggested with great politeness that I should favour him with his instructions . 
I wrote two lines to Pesca , authorising him to deliver my sealed letter to the bearer , directed the note , and handed it to Monsieur Rubelle . 
The agent waited with me till his employer returned , equipped in travelling costume . 
The Count examined the address of my letter before he dismissed the agent . 
I thought so ! he said , turning on me with a dark look , and altering again in his manner from that moment . 
He completed his packing , and then sat consulting a travelling map , making entries in his pocket book , and looking every now and then impatiently at his watch . 
Not another word , addressed to myself , passed his lips . 
A little before eight o'clock , Monsieur Rubelle came back with my unopened letter in his hand . 
The Count looked carefully at the superscription and the seal , lit a candle , and burnt the letter . 
I perform my promise , he said , but this matter , Mr. Hartright , shall not end here . 
The agent had kept at the door the cab in which he had returned . 
He and the maid servant now busied themselves in removing the luggage . 
Madame Fosco came downstairs , thickly veiled , with the travelling cage of the white mice in her hand . 
She neither spoke to me nor looked towards me . 
Her husband escorted her to the cab . 
Follow me as far as the passage , he whispered in my ear I may want to speak to you at the last moment . 
I went out to the door , the agent standing below me in the front garden . 
The Count came back alone , and drew me a few steps inside the passage . 
Remember the Third condition ! he whispered . 
You shall hear from me , Mr. Hartright I may claim from you the satisfaction of a gentleman sooner than you think for . 
He caught my hand before I was aware of him , and wrung it hard then turned to the door , stopped , and came back to me again . 
One word more , he said confidentially . 
When I last saw Miss Halcombe , she looked thin and ill . 
I am anxious about that admirable woman . 
The agent and I waited at the door a few moments looking after him . 
While we were standing together , a second cab appeared from a turning a little way down the road . 
It followed the direction previously taken by the Count's cab , and as it passed the house and the open garden gate , a person inside looked at us out of the window . 
The stranger at the Opera again ! the foreigner with a scar on his left cheek . 
You wait here with me , sir , for half an hour more ! said Monsieur Rubelle . 
We returned to the sitting room . 
I was in no humour to speak to the agent , or to allow him to speak to me . 
I took out the papers which the Count had placed in my hands , and read the terrible story of the conspiracy told by the man who had planned and perpetrated it . 
to Societies Musical , Societies Medical , Societies Philosophical , and Societies General Benevolent , throughout Europe etc . 
) THE COUNT'S NARRATIVE In the summer of eighteen hundred and fifty I arrived in England , charged with a delicate political mission from abroad . 
Confidential persons were semi officially connected with me , whose exertions I was authorised to direct , Monsieur and Madame Rubelle being among the number . 
Some weeks of spare time were at my disposal , before I entered on my functions by establishing myself in the suburbs of London . 
Curiosity may stop here to ask for some explanation of those functions on my part . 
I entirely sympathise with the request . 
I also regret that diplomatic reserve forbids me to comply with it . 
I arranged to pass the preliminary period of repose , to which I have just referred , in the superb mansion of my late lamented friend , Sir Percival Glyde . 
HE arrived from the Continent with his wife . 
I arrived from the Continent with MINE . 
My mind recoils from them . 
With a Roman austerity , I show my empty purse and Percival's to the shrinking public gaze . 
Let us allow the deplorable fact to assert itself , once for all , in that manner , and pass on . 
We were received at the mansion by the magnificent creature who is inscribed on my heart as Marian , who is known in the colder atmosphere of society as Miss Halcombe . 
Just Heaven ! with what inconceivable rapidity I learnt to adore that woman . 
At sixty , I worshipped her with the volcanic ardour of eighteen . 
All the gold of my rich nature was poured hopelessly at her feet . 
My wife poor angel ! my wife , who adores me , got nothing but the shillings and the pennies . 
Such is the World , such Man , such Love . 
The domestic position at the commencement of our residence at Blackwater Park has been drawn with amazing accuracy , with profound mental insight , by the hand of Marian herself . 
The interests interests , breathless and immense ! with which I am here concerned , begin with the deplorable calamity of Marian's illness . 
The situation at this period was emphatically a serious one . 
, and the one source to look to for supplying them was the fortune of his wife , of which not one farthing was at his disposal until her death . 
Bad so far , and worse still farther on . 
My lamented friend had private troubles of his own , into which the delicacy of my disinterested attachment to him forbade me from inquiring too curiously . 
He had told me himself that he was a lost man , unless his wife was silenced , and unless Anne Catherick was found . 
Our money affairs , important as they were , admitted of delay but the necessity of discovering the woman admitted of none . 
I only knew her by description , as presenting an extraordinary personal resemblance to Lady Glyde . 
That conception involved nothing less than the complete transformation of two separate identities . 
suggested to me , on reviewing the circumstances , that our invisible Anne would , sooner or later , return to the boat house at the Blackwater lake . 
There I posted myself , previously mentioning to Mrs. Michelson , the housekeeper , that I might be found when wanted , immersed in study , in that solitary place . 
It is my rule never to make unnecessary mysteries , and never to set people suspecting me for want of a little seasonable candour on my part . 
Mrs. Michelson believed in me from first to last . 
Touched by such superfluity of simple confidence in a woman of her mature years , I opened the ample reservoirs of my nature and absorbed it all . 
I was rewarded for posting myself sentinel at the lake by the appearance not of Anne Catherick herself , but of the person in charge of her . 
This individual also overflowed with simple faith , which I absorbed in myself , as in the case already mentioned . 
under which she introduced me to the object of her maternal care . 
When I first saw Anne Catherick she was asleep . 
I was electrified by the likeness between this unhappy woman and Lady Glyde . 
At the same time , my heart , always accessible to tender influences , dissolved in tears at the spectacle of suffering before me . 
I instantly set myself to impart relief . 
In other words , I provided the necessary stimulant for strengthening Anne Catherick to perform the journey to London . 
The best years of my life have been passed in the ardent study of medical and chemical science . 
Chemistry especially has always had irresistible attractions for me from the enormous , the illimitable power which the knowledge of it confers . 
Chemists I assert it emphatically might sway , if they pleased , the destinies of humanity . 
Let me explain this before I go further . 
Mind , they say , rules the world . 
lies at the mercy of the most omnipotent of all potentates the Chemist . 
Under similar circumstances , revive me the illustrious Newton . 
I guarantee that when he sees the apple fall he shall EAT IT , instead of discovering the principle of gravitation . 
On my sacred word of honour it is lucky for Society that modern chemists are , by incomprehensible good fortune , the most harmless of mankind . 
The mass are worthy fathers of families , who keep shops . 
Thus Society escapes , and the illimitable power of Chemistry remains the slave of the most superficial and the most insignificant ends . 
Why this outburst ? Why this withering eloquence ? Because my conduct has been misrepresented , because my motives have been misunderstood . 
It has been assumed that I used my vast chemical resources against Anne Catherick , and that I would have used them if I could against the magnificent Marian herself . 
in the preservation of Anne Catherick's life . 
On two occasions only both equally harmless to the individual on whom I practised did I summon to myself the assistance of chemical knowledge . 
, I availed myself of the services of my invaluable wife , to copy one and to intercept the other of two letters which my adored enemy had entrusted to a discarded maid . 
of Lady Glyde's arrival in London . 
Never at any other time was I indebted to my Art as distinguished from myself . 
To all other emergencies and complications my natural capacity for grappling , single handed , with circumstances , was invariably equal . 
I affirm the all pervading intelligence of that capacity . 
At the expense of the Chemist I vindicate the Man . 
Respect this outburst of generous indignation . 
It has inexpressibly relieved me . 
En route ! Let us proceed . 
My first proceeding was to avail myself of the sublime devotion of my wife . 
I had arranged with Mrs. Clements that she should communicate her London address , in Anne's interests , to Lady Glyde . 
But this was not enough . 
Designing persons in my absence might shake the simple confidence of Mrs. Clements , and she might not write after all . 
Who could I find capable of travelling to London by the train she travelled by , and of privately seeing her home ? I asked myself this question . 
The conjugal part of me immediately answered Madame Fosco . 
After deciding on my wife's mission to London , I arranged that the journey should serve a double purpose . 
A nurse for the suffering Marian , equally devoted to the patient and to myself , was a necessity of my position . 
One of the most eminently confidential and capable women in existence was by good fortune at my disposal . 
I refer to that respectable matron , Madame Rubelle , to whom I addressed a letter , at her residence in London , by the hands of my wife . 
On the appointed day Mrs. Clements and Anne Catherick met me at the station . 
I politely saw them off , I politely saw Madame Fosco off by the same train . 
The last thing at night my wife returned to Blackwater , having followed her instructions with the most unimpeachable accuracy . 
She was accompanied by Madame Rubelle , and she brought me the London address of Mrs. Clements . 
After events proved this last precaution to have been unnecessary . 
Mrs. Clements punctually informed Lady Glyde of her place of abode . 
With a wary eye on future emergencies , I kept the letter . 
The same day I had a brief interview with the doctor , at which I protested , in the sacred interests of humanity , against his treatment of Marian's case . 
He was insolent , as all ignorant people are . 
I showed no resentment , I deferred quarrelling with him till it was necessary to quarrel to some purpose . 
My next proceeding was to leave Blackwater myself . 
I had my London residence to take in anticipation of coming events . 
I had also a little business of the domestic sort to transact with Mr. Frederick Fairlie . 
I found the house I wanted in St . 
I found Mr. Fairlie at Limmeridge , Cumberland . 
This letter I had wisely allowed to reach its destination , feeling at the time that it could do no harm , and might do good . 
I now presented myself before Mr. Fairlie to support Marian's own proposal with certain modifications which , happily for the success of my plans , were rendered really inevitable by her illness . 
by her uncle's express advice . 
To achieve these results , and to secure a note of invitation which could be shown to Lady Glyde , were the objects of my visit to Mr. Fairlie . 
When I have mentioned that this gentleman was equally feeble in mind and body , and that I let loose the whole force of my character on him , I have said enough . 
I came , saw , and conquered Fairlie . 
I found that the doctor's imbecile treatment of Marian's case had led to the most alarming results . 
The fever had turned to typhus . 
Lady Glyde , on the day of my return , tried to force herself into the room to nurse her sister . 
At the same time I offered no hindrance to her putting herself in danger . 
If she had succeeded in doing so , the intricate knot which I was slowly and patiently operating on might perhaps have been cut by circumstances . 
As it was , the doctor interfered and she was kept out of the room . 
I had myself previously recommended sending for advice to London . 
This course had been now taken . 
The physician , on his arrival , confirmed my view of the case . 
But we had hope of our charming patient on the fifth day from the appearance of the typhus . 
I was only once absent from Blackwater at this time when I went to London by the morning train to make the final arrangements at my house in St . 
John's Wood , to assure myself by private inquiry that Mrs. Clements had not moved , and to settle one or two little preliminary matters with the husband of Madame Rubelle . 
Five days afterwards the physician pronounced our interesting Marian to be out of all danger , and to be in need of nothing but careful nursing . 
This was the time I had waited for . 
Now that medical attendance was no longer indispensable , I played the first move in the game by asserting myself against the doctor . 
He was one among many witnesses in my way whom it was necessary to remove . 
served the purpose in view . 
I descended on the miserable man in an irresistible avalanche of indignation , and swept him from the house . 
The servants were the next encumbrances to get rid of . 
, and Mrs. Michelson was amazed , one day , by hearing from her master that the establishment was to be broken up . 
We cleared the house of all the servants but one , who was kept for domestic purposes , and whose lumpish stupidity we could trust to make no embarrassing discoveries . 
The circumstances were now exactly what they were required to be . 
was shut up there at night in attendance on her mistress . 
Marian , though fast recovering , still kept her bed , with Mrs. Rubelle for nurse . 
No other living creatures but my wife , myself , and Percival were in the house . 
With all the chances thus in our favour I confronted the next emergency , and played the second move in the game . 
The object of the second move was to induce Lady Glyde to leave Blackwater unaccompanied by her sister . 
Unless we could persuade her that Marian had gone on to Cumberland first , there was no chance of removing her , of her own free will , from the house . 
To produce this necessary operation in her mind , we concealed our interesting invalid in one of the uninhabited bedrooms at Blackwater . 
The scene was picturesque , mysterious , dramatic in the highest degree . 
By my directions the bed had been made , in the morning , on a strong movable framework of wood . 
We had only to lift the framework gently at the head and foot , and to transport our patient where we pleased , without disturbing herself or her bed . 
No chemical assistance was needed or used in this case . 
Our interesting Marian lay in the deep repose of convalescence . 
We placed the candles and opened the doors beforehand . 
I , in right of my great personal strength , took the head of the framework my wife and Madame Rubelle took the foot . 
I bore my share of that inestimably precious burden with a manly tenderness , with a fatherly care . 
Where is the modern Rembrandt who could depict our midnight procession ? Alas for the Arts ! alas for this most pictorial of subjects ! The modern Rembrandt is nowhere to be found . 
, with directions to show it to Lady Glyde on hearing from me . 
I had arranged , at my last visit to the metropolis , to have our modest domestic establishment ready to receive us when we arrived in London by the early train . 
In consequence of this wise precaution , we were enabled that same day to play the third move in the game the getting possession of Anne Catherick . 
Dates are of importance here . 
I combine in myself the opposite characteristics of a Man of Sentiment and a Man of Business . 
I have all the dates at my fingers' ends . 
On Wednesday , the th of July , I sent my wife in a cab to clear Mrs. Clements out of the way , in the first place . 
A supposed message from Lady Glyde in London was sufficient to obtain this result . 
gave her the slip , and returned to receive her expected visitor at our house in St . 
It is hardly necessary to add that the visitor had been described to the servants as Lady Glyde . 
The good gentleman sent in this note by a street boy , and paused for results a door or two farther on . 
On the way to Forest Road my companion showed no fear . 
I can be paternal no man more so when I please , and I was intensely paternal on this occasion . 
What titles I had to her confidence ! I had compounded the medicine which had done her good I had warned her of her danger from Sir Percival . 
The fear from which she was suffering I might have soothed , but the serious heart disease , under which she laboured , was beyond the reach of all moral palliatives . 
To my unspeakable horror she was seized with convulsions a shock to the system , in her condition , which might have laid her dead at any moment at our feet . 
The nearest doctor was sent for , and was told that Lady Glyde required his immediate services . 
To my infinite relief , he was a capable man . 
I represented my visitor to him as a person of weak intellect , and subject to delusions , and I arranged that no nurse but my wife should watch in the sick room . 
The unhappy woman was too ill , however , to cause any anxiety about what she might say . 
The one dread which now oppressed me was the dread that the false Lady Glyde might die before the true Lady Glyde arrived in London . 
On reflection I had felt the necessity , in Anne Catherick's state of health , of precipitating events , and of having Lady Glyde at my disposal earlier than I had originally contemplated . 
What fresh directions , in the terrible uncertainty of my position , could I now issue ? I could do nothing but trust to chance and the doctor . 
My emotions expressed themselves in pathetic apostrophes , which I was just self possessed enough to couple , in the hearing of other people , with the name of Lady Glyde . 
In all other respects Fosco , on that memorable day , was Fosco shrouded in total eclipse . 
She passed a bad night , she awoke worn out , but later in the day she revived amazingly . 
My elastic spirits revived with her . 
I could receive no answers from Percival and Madame Rubelle till the morning of the next day , the th . 
After seeing the order entered in the book , I went on to arrange matters with Monsieur Rubelle . 
I also procured the services of two gentlemen who could furnish me with the necessary certificates of lunacy . 
One of them I knew personally the other was known to Monsieur Rubelle . 
Both were men whose vigorous minds soared superior to narrow scruples both were labouring under temporary embarrassments both believed in ME . 
It was past five o'clock in the afternoon before I returned from the performance of these duties . 
When I got back Anne Catherick was dead . 
Dead on the th , and Lady Glyde was not to arrive in London till the th ! I was stunned . 
Fosco stunned ! It was too late to retrace our steps . 
Before my return the doctor had officiously undertaken to save me all trouble by registering the death , on the date when it happened , with his own hand . 
My grand scheme , unassailable hitherto , had its weak place now no efforts on my part could alter the fatal event of the th . 
I turned manfully to the future . 
Percival's interests and mine being still at stake , nothing was left but to play the game through to the end . 
I recalled my impenetrable calm and played it . 
On the morning of the th Percival's letter reached me , announcing his wife's arrival by the midday train . 
Madame Rubelle also wrote to say she would follow in the evening . 
I started in the fly , leaving the false Lady Glyde dead in the house , to receive the true Lady Glyde on her arrival by the railway at three o'clock . 
What a situation ! I suggest it to the rising romance writers of England . 
I offer it , as totally new , to the worn out dramatists of France . 
Lady Glyde was at the station . 
, in reclaiming her luggage . 
Her first questions , as we drove off , implored me to tell her news of her sister . 
I invented news of the most pacifying kind , assuring her that she was about to see her sister at my house . 
My house , on this occasion only , was in the neighbourhood of Leicester Square , and was in the occupation of Monsieur Rubelle , who received us in the hall . 
I took my visitor upstairs into a back room , the two medical gentlemen being there in waiting on the floor beneath to see the patient , and to give me their certificates . 
After quieting Lady Glyde by the necessary assurances about her sister , I introduced my friends separately to her presence . 
They performed the formalities of the occasion briefly , intelligently , conscientiously . 
I entered the room again as soon as they had left it , and at once precipitated events by a reference of the alarming kind to Miss Halcombe's state of health . 
Results followed as I had anticipated . 
Lady Glyde became frightened , and turned faint . 
For the second time , and the last , I called Science to my assistance . 
A medicated glass of water and a medicated bottle of smelling salts relieved her of all further embarrassment and alarm . 
Additional applications later in the evening procured her the inestimable blessing of a good night's rest . 
Madame Rubelle arrived in time to preside at Lady Glyde's toilet . 
Madame Rubelle and I took our revived Anne Catherick to the Asylum . 
I returned at once to assist Madame Fosco in the preparations for the burial of the False Lady Glyde , having the clothes and luggage of the true Lady Glyde in my possession . 
They were afterwards sent to Cumberland by the conveyance which was used for the funeral . 
I attended the funeral , with becoming dignity , attired in the deepest mourning . 
My narrative of these remarkable events , written under equally remarkable circumstances , closes here . 
The minor precautions which I observed in communicating with Limmeridge House are already known , so is the magnificent success of my enterprise , so are the solid pecuniary results which followed it . 
Nothing but my fatal admiration for Marian restrained me from stepping in to my own rescue when she effected her sister's escape . 
I ran the risk , and trusted in the complete destruction of Lady Glyde's identity . 
I committed one error in trusting myself to such a blindfold calculation of chances as this . 
In brief , Fosco , at this serious crisis , was untrue to himself . 
Youths ! I invoke your sympathy . 
Maidens ! I claim your tears . 
My own mental insight informs me that three inevitable questions will be asked here by persons of inquiring minds . 
They shall be stated they shall be answered . 
That is exactly what my wife has done . 
I stand here on a supreme moral elevation , and I loftily assert her accurate performance of her conjugal duties . 
Silence , Calumny ! Your sympathy , Wives of England , for Madame Fosco ! Second question . 
If Anne Catherick had not died when she did , what should I have done ? I should , in that case , have assisted worn out Nature in finding permanent repose . 
I should have opened the doors of the Prison of Life , and have extended to the captive a happy release . 
At immense personal sacrifice I followed the dictates of my own ingenuity , my own humanity , my own caution , and took her identity instead . 
Judge me by what I might have done . 
How comparatively innocent ! how indirectly virtuous I appear in what I really did ! I announced on beginning it that this narrative would be a remarkable document . 
It has entirely answered my expectations . 
Receive these fervid lines my last legacy to the country I leave for ever . 
They are worthy of the occasion , and worthy of FOSCO . 
THE STORY CONCLUDED BY WALTER HARTRIGHT I When I closed the last leaf of the Count's manuscript the half hour during which I had engaged to remain at Forest Road had expired . 
Monsieur Rubelle looked at his watch and bowed . 
I rose immediately , and left the agent in possession of the empty house . 
I never saw him again I never heard more of him or of his wife . 
Out of the dark byways of villainy and deceit they had crawled across our path into the same byways they crawled back secretly and were lost . 
In a quarter of an hour after leaving Forest Road I was at home again . 
But few words sufficed to tell Laura and Marian how my desperate venture had ended , and what the next event in our lives was likely to be . 
I left all details to be described later in the day , and hastened back to St . 
John's Wood , to see the person of whom Count Fosco had ordered the fly , when he went to meet Laura at the station . 
The address in my possession led me to some livery stables , about a quarter of a mile distant from Forest Road . 
The proprietor proved to be a civil and respectable man . 
The book was produced , and there , under the date of July th , , the order was entered in these words Brougham to Count Fosco , Forest Road . 
I found on inquiry that the name of John Owen , attached to the entry , referred to the man who had been employed to drive the fly . 
He was then at work in the stable yard , and was sent for to see me at my request . 
Do you remember driving a gentleman , in the month of July last , from Number Five Forest Road to the Waterloo Bridge station ? I asked . 
Well , sir , said the man , I can't exactly say I do . 
Perhaps you remember the gentleman himself ? Can you call to mind driving a foreigner last summer a tall gentleman and remarkably fat ? The man's face brightened directly . 
I remember him , sir ! The fattest gentleman as ever I see , and the heaviest customer as ever I drove . 
Yes , yes I call him to mind , sir ! We DID go to the station , and it WAS from Forest Road . 
There was a parrot , or summat like it , screeching in the window . 
The gentleman was in a mortal hurry about the lady's luggage , and he gave me a handsome present for looking sharp and getting the boxes . 
Did you see the lady ? I asked . 
I can't call nothing to mind about her that I know of excepting her name . 
You remember her name ? Yes , sir . 
Her name was Lady Glyde . 
How do you come to remember that , when you have forgotten what she looked like ? The man smiled , and shifted his feet in some little embarrassment . 
The lady mentioned it herself . 
'Is your name on your boxes , ma'am ? says I. 'Yes , says she , 'my name is on my luggage it is Lady Glyde . 
'Come ! I says to myself , 'I've a bad head for gentlefolks' names in general but THIS one comes like an old friend , at any rate . 
I can't say nothing about the time , sir , it might be nigh on a year ago , or it mightn't . 
But I can swear to the stout gentleman , and swear to the lady's name . 
There was no need that he should remember the time the date was positively established by his master's order book . 
I felt at once that the means were now in my power of striking down the whole conspiracy at a blow with the irresistible weapon of plain fact . 
I left the livery stables , having settled that John Owen was to hold himself at my disposal for the next three days , or for a longer period if necessity required it . 
One of my objects in paying him this second visit was , necessarily , to tell him what I had done . 
The other was to warn him of my resolution to take my wife to Limmeridge the next morning , and to have her publicly received and recognised in her uncle's house . 
I will say nothing of Mr. Kyrle's amazement , or of the terms in which he expressed his opinion of my conduct from the first stage of the investigation to the last . 
It is only necessary to mention that he at once decided on accompanying us to Cumberland . 
We started the next morning by the early train . 
Laura , Marian , Mr. Kyrle , and myself in one carriage , and John Owen , with a clerk from Mr. Kyrle's office , occupying places in another . 
On reaching the Limmeridge station we went first to the farmhouse at Todd's Corner . 
It was my firm determination that Laura should not enter her uncle's house till she appeared there publicly recognised as his niece . 
These preliminaries completed , Mr. Kyrle and I set forth together for Limmeridge House . 
I prefer to record simply that I carried my point . 
Mr. Fairlie attempted to treat us on his customary plan . 
We passed without notice his polite insolence at the outset of the interview . 
We heard without sympathy the protestations with which he tried next to persuade us that the disclosure of the conspiracy had overwhelmed him . 
He absolutely whined and whimpered at last like a fretful child . 
I gave him his choice between doing his niece justice on my terms , or facing the consequence of a public assertion of her existence in a court of law . 
Mr. Kyrle , to whom he turned for help , told him plainly that he must decide the question then and there . 
This I submitted to Mr. Kyrle before I read it the next day to the assembled tenants . 
We also arranged the form in which the evidence should be presented at the close of the reading . 
After these matters were settled , Mr. Kyrle endeavoured to turn the conversation next to Laura's affairs . 
My last labour , as the evening approached , was to obtain The Narrative of the Tombstone , by taking a copy of the false inscription on the grave before it was erased . 
The day came the day when Laura once more entered the familiar breakfast room at Lummeridge House . 
All the persons assembled rose from their seats as Marian and I led her in . 
A perceptible shock of surprise , an audible murmur of interest ran through them , at the sight of her face . 
, with Mr. Kyrle by his side . 
His valet stood behind him with a smelling bottle ready in one hand , and a white handkerchief , saturated with eau de Cologne , in the other . 
I opened the proceedings by publicly appealing to Mr. Fairlie to say whether I appeared there with his authority and under his express sanction . 
I am as great an invalid as ever , and he is so very obliging as to speak for me . 
The subject is dreadfully embarrassing . 
Please hear him , and don't make a noise ! With those words he slowly sank back again into the chair , and took refuge in his scented pocket handkerchief . 
The disclosure of the conspiracy followed , after I had offered my preliminary explanation , first of all , in the fewest and the plainest words . 
, and confirmed its correctness by producing the certificate of death . 
I then read them Sir Percival's letter of the th , announcing his wife's intended journey from Hampshire to London on the th . 
Marian then added her own statement of the meeting between Laura and herself at the mad house , and of her sister's escape . 
After which I closed the proceedings by informing the persons present of Sir Percival's death and of my marriage . 
As he spoke those words , I put my arm round Laura , and raised her so that she was plainly visible to every one in the room . 
Are you all of the same opinion ? I asked , advancing towards them a few steps , and pointing to my wife . 
The effect of the question was electrical . 
Far down at the lower end of the room one of the oldest tenants on the estate started to his feet , and led the rest with him in an instant . 
The labourers in the village and the boys from the school , assembled on the lawn , caught up the cheering and echoed it back on us . 
She was so completely overwhelmed , that I was obliged to take her from them , and carry her to the door . 
There I gave her into Marian's care Marian , who had never failed us yet , whose courageous self control did not fail us now . 
to follow me to the churchyard , and see the false inscription struck off the tombstone with their own eyes . 
They all left the house , and all joined the throng of villagers collected round the grave , where the statuary's man was waiting for us . 
In a breathless silence , the first sharp stroke of the steel sounded on the marble . 
Not a voice was heard not a soul moved , till those three words , Laura , Lady Glyde , had vanished from sight . 
It was late in the day before the whole inscription was erased . 
One line only was afterwards engraved in its place Anne Catherick , July th , . 
I returned to Limmeridge House early enough in the evening to take leave of Mr. Kyrle . 
He and his clerk , and the driver of the fly , went back to London by the night train . 
The message conveyed to us Mr. Fairlie's best congratulations , and requested to know whether we contemplated stopping in the house . 
As our view of the Cumberland hills faded in the distance , I thought of the first disheartening circumstances under which the long struggle that was now past and over had been pursued . 
would have been more than doubtful the loss , judging by the plain test of events as they had really happened , certain . 
The law would never have obtained me my interview with Mrs. Catherick . 
The law would never have made Pesca the means of forcing a confession from the Count . 
II Two more events remain to be added to the chain before it reaches fairly from the outset of the story to the close . 
His own engagements had not allowed him leisure time to undertake the errand , and he had most kindly suggested that it should be transferred to me . 
I received my instructions and packed up for the journey the next day . 
She took my hand , and silenced me at the first words . 
After all that we three have suffered together , she said there can be no parting between us till the last parting of all . 
My heart and my happiness , Walter , are with Laura and you . 
Wait a little till there are children's voices at your fireside . 
At the eleventh hour Pesca decided that he would accompany me . 
He had not recovered his customary cheerfulness since the night at the Opera , and he determined to try what a week's holiday would do to raise his spirits . 
I performed the errand entrusted to me , and drew out the necessary report , on the fourth day from our arrival in Paris . 
The fifth day I arranged to devote to sight seeing and amusements in Pesca's company . 
Our hotel had been too full to accommodate us both on the same floor . 
My room was on the second story , and Pesca's was above me , on the third . 
On the morning of the fifth day I went upstairs to see if the Professor was ready to go out . 
At the same time I heard Pesca's voice saying eagerly , in low tones , and in his own language I remember the name , but I don't know the man . 
You saw at the Opera he was so changed that I could not recognise him . 
I will forward the report I can do no more . 
No more need be done , answered the second voice . 
The door opened wide , and the light haired man with the scar on his cheek the man I had seen following Count Fosco's cab a week before came out . 
He bowed as I drew aside to let him pass his face was fearfully pale and he held fast by the banisters as he descended the stairs . 
I pushed open the door and entered Pesca's room . 
He was crouched up , in the strangest manner , in a corner of the sofa . 
He seemed to shrink from me when I approached him . 
Am I disturbing you ? I asked . 
I did not know you had a friend with you till I saw him come out . 
No friend , said Pesca eagerly . 
I see him to day for the first time and the last . 
I am afraid he has brought you bad news ? Horrible news , Walter ! Let us go back to London I don't want to stop here I am sorry I ever came . 
The misfortunes of my youth are very hard upon me , he said , turning his face to the wall , very hard upon me in my later time . 
I try to forget them and they will not forget ME ! We can't return , I am afraid , before the afternoon , I replied . 
Would you like to come out with me in the meantime ? No , my friend , I will wait here . 
But let us go back to day pray let us go back . 
I left him with the assurance that he should leave Paris that afternoon . 
We had arranged the evening before to ascend the Cathedral of Notre Dame , with Victor Hugo's noble romance for our guide . 
There was nothing in the French capital that I was more anxious to see , and I departed by myself for the church . 
Approaching Notre Dame by the river side , I passed on my way the terrible dead house of Paris the Morgue . 
A great crowd clamoured and heaved round the door . 
There was evidently something inside which excited the popular curiosity , and fed the popular appetite for horror . 
I should have walked on to the church if the conversation of two men and a woman on the outskirts of the crowd had not caught my ear . 
The moment those words reached me I stopped and took my place with the crowd going in . 
Now the truth itself was revealed to me revealed in the chance words that had just reached my ears . 
Other vengeance than mine had followed that fated man from the theatre to his own door from his own door to his refuge in Paris . 
Other vengeance than mine had called him to the day of reckoning , and had exacted from him the penalty of his life . 
I remembered the struggle in my own heart , when he and I stood face to face the struggle before I could let him escape me and shuddered as I recalled it . 
His clothes , hung above him , showed that he had been himself conscious of his danger they were clothes that had disguised him as a French artisan . 
For a few moments , but not for longer , I forced myself to see these things through the glass screen . 
I can write of them at no greater length , for I saw no more . 
, may be stated here before the subject is dismissed from these pages . 
The hand that struck him was never traced , and the circumstances under which he was killed were never discovered . 
I leave others to draw their own conclusions in reference to the secret of the assassination as I have drawn mine . 
The body was identified the day after I had seen it by means of an anonymous letter addressed to his wife . 
He was buried by Madame Fosco in the cemetery of Pere la Chaise . 
Fresh funeral wreaths continue to this day to be hung on the ornamental bronze railings round the tomb by the Countess's own hand . 
She lives in the strictest retirement at Versailles . 
Not long since she published a biography of her deceased husband . 
III The summer and autumn passed after my return from Paris , and brought no changes with them which need be noticed here . 
We lived so simply and quietly that the income which I was now steadily earning sufficed for all our wants . 
In the February of the new year our first child was born a son . 
My mother and sister and Mrs. Vesey were our guests at the little christening party , and Mrs. Clements was present to assist my wife on the same occasion . 
Marian was our boy's godmother , and Pesca and Mr. Gilmore were his godfathers . 
The only event in our lives which now remains to be recorded , occurred when our little Walter was six months old . 
At that time I was sent to Ireland to make sketches for certain forthcoming illustrations in the newspaper to which I was attached . 
I performed the latter part of my journey back at night , and when I reached home in the morning , to my utter astonishment there was no one to receive me . 
Laura and Marian and the child had left the house on the day before my return . 
A note from my wife , which was given to me by the servant , only increased my surprise , by informing me that they had gone to Limmeridge House . 
It was still early enough to catch the morning train . 
I reached Limmeridge House the same afternoon . 
My wife and Marian were both upstairs . 
in the little room which had been once assigned to me for a studio , when I was employed on Mr. Fairlie's drawings . 
What in the name of heaven has brought you here ? I asked . 
Does Mr. Fairlie know ? Marian suspended the question on my lips by telling me that Mr. Fairlie was dead . 
He had been struck by paralysis , and had never rallied after the shock . 
Mr. Kyrle had informed them of his death , and had advised them to proceed immediately to Limmeridge House . 
Some dim perception of a great change dawned on my mind . 
Laura spoke before I had quite realised it . 
She stole close to me to enjoy the surprise which was still expressed in my face . 
There is not the least necessity for doing anything of the kind , said Marian . 
We can be just as explicit , and much more interesting , by referring to the future . 
She rose and held up the child kicking and crowing in her arms . 
Do you know who this is , Walter ? she asked , with bright tears of happiness gathering in her eyes . 
Even MY bewilderment has its limits , I replied . 
I think I can still answer for knowing my own child . 
Child ! she exclaimed , with all her easy gaiety of old times . 
In writing those last words , I have written all . 
The pen falters in my hand . 
The long , happy labour of many months is over . 
Marian was the good angel of our lives let Marian end our Story . 
