Scanned with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
com THE WIND IN THE WILLOWS BY KENNETH GRAHAME AUTHOR OF THE GOLDEN AGE , DREAM DAYS , ETC . 
CONTENTS CHAPTER I. THE RIVER BANK II . 
BADGER V. DULCE DOMUM VI . 
THE PIPER AT THE GATES OF DAWN VIII . 
WAYFARERS ALL X. THE FURTHER ADVENTURES OF TOAD XI . 
LIKE SUMMER TEMPESTS CAME HIS TEARS XII . 
THE RETURN OF ULYSSES THE RIVER BANK The Mole had been working very hard all the morning , spring cleaning his little home . 
Spring was moving in the air above and in the earth below and around him , penetrating even his dark and lowly little house with its spirit of divine discontent and longing . 
This is fine ! he said to himself . 
Hold up ! said an elderly rabbit at the gap . 
Onion sauce ! Onion sauce ! he remarked jeeringly , and was gone before they could think of a thoroughly satisfactory reply . 
Then they all started grumbling at each other . 
It all seemed too good to be true . 
And instead of having an uneasy conscience pricking him and whispering whitewash ! he somehow could only feel how jolly it was to be the only idle dog among all these busy citizens . 
After all , the best part of a holiday is perhaps not so much to be resting yourself , as to see all the other fellows busy working . 
He thought his happiness was complete when , as he meandered aimlessly along , suddenly he stood by the edge of a full fed river . 
All was a shake and a shiver glints and gleams and sparkles , rustle and swirl , chatter and bubble . 
The Mole was bewitched , entranced , fascinated . 
As he gazed , something bright and small seemed to twinkle down in the heart of it , vanished , then twinkled once more like a tiny star . 
But it could hardly be a star in such an unlikely situation and it was too glittering and small for a glow worm . 
A brown little face , with whiskers . 
A grave round face , with the same twinkle in its eye that had first attracted his notice . 
Small neat ears and thick silky hair . 
It was the Water Rat ! Then the two animals stood and regarded each other cautiously . 
Hullo , Mole ! said the Water Rat . 
Hullo , Rat ! said the Mole . 
Would you like to come over ? enquired the Rat presently . 
Oh , its all very well to TALK , said the Mole , rather pettishly , he being new to a river and riverside life and its ways . 
The Rat said nothing , but stooped and unfastened a rope and hauled on it then lightly stepped into a little boat which the Mole had not observed . 
The Rat sculled smartly across and made fast . 
Then he held up his forepaw as the Mole stepped gingerly down . 
Lean on that ! he said . 
Now then , step lively ! and the Mole to his surprise and rapture found himself actually seated in the stern of a real boat . 
This has been a wonderful day ! said he , as the Rat shoved off and took to the sculls again . 
Do you know , I ve never been in a boat before in all my life . 
Nice ? It's the ONLY thing , said the Water Rat solemnly , as he leant forward for his stroke . 
Believe me , my young friend , there is NOTHING absolute nothing half so much worth doing as simply messing about in boats . 
Simply messing , he went on dreamily messing about in boats messing Look ahead , Rat ! cried the Mole suddenly . 
The boat struck the bank full tilt . 
The dreamer , the joyous oarsman , lay on his back at the bottom of the boat , his heels in the air . 
about in boats or WITH boats , the Rat went on composedly , picking himself up with a pleasant laugh . 
In or out of 'em , it doesn't matter . 
Nothing seems really to matter , that's the charm of it . 
WHAT a day I'm having ! he said . 
Let us start at once ! Hold hard a minute , then ! said the Rat . 
He looped the painter through a ring in his landing stage , climbed up into his hole above , and after a short interval reappeared staggering under a fat , wicker luncheon basket . 
Shove that under your feet , he observed to the Mole , as he passed it down into the boat . 
Then he untied the painter and took the sculls again . 
What's inside it ? asked the Mole , wriggling with curiosity . 
The Water Rat , like the good little fellow he was , sculled steadily on and forebore to disturb him . 
I like your clothes awfully , old chap , he remarked after some half an hour or so had passed . 
I'm going to get a black velvet smoking suit myself some day , as soon as I can afford it . 
I beg your pardon , said the Mole , pulling himself together with an effort . 
You must think me very rude but all this is so new to me . 
So this is a River ! THE River , corrected the Rat . 
And you really live by the river ? What a jolly life ! By it and with it and on it and in it , said the Rat . 
It's brother and sister to me , and aunts , and company , and food and drink , and washing . 
It's my world , and I don't want any other . 
What it hasn't got is not worth having , and what it doesn't know is not worth knowing . 
Lord ! the times we've had together ! Whether in winter or summer , spring or autumn , it's always got its fun and its excitements . 
You're new to it , and of course you don't know . 
The bank is so crowded nowadays that many people are moving away altogether O no , it isn't what it used to be , at all . 
That ? O , that's just the Wild Wood , said the Rat shortly . 
We don't go there very much , we river bankers . 
Aren't they aren't they very NICE people in there ? said the Mole , a trifle nervously . 
W e ll , replied the Rat , let me see . 
The squirrels are all right . 
AND the rabbits some of 'em , but rabbits are a mixed lot . 
And then there's Badger , of course . 
He lives right in the heart of it wouldn't live anywhere else , either , if you paid him to do it . 
Dear old Badger ! Nobody interferes with HIM . 
They'd better not , he added significantly . 
Why , who SHOULD interfere with him ? asked the Mole . 
Well , of course there are others , explained the Rat in a hesitating sort of way . 
Weasels and stoats and foxes and so on . 
The Mole knew well that it is quite against animal etiquette to dwell on possible trouble ahead , or even to allude to it so he dropped the subject . 
And that's something that doesn't matter , either to you or me . 
I've never been there , and I'm never going , nor you either , if you've got any sense at all . 
Don't ever refer to it again , please . 
Now then ! Here's our backwater at last , where we're going to lunch . 
Leaving the main stream , they now passed into what seemed at first sight like a little land locked lake . 
I am looking , said the Mole , at a streak of bubbles that I see travelling along the surface of the water . 
That is a thing that strikes me as funny . 
Bubbles ? Oho ! said the Rat , and chirruped cheerily in an inviting sort of way . 
A broad glistening muzzle showed itself above the edge of the bank , and the Otter hauled himself out and shook the water from his coat . 
Greedy beggars ! he observed , making for the provender . 
Why didn't you invite me , Ratty ? This was an impromptu affair , explained the Rat . 
By the way my friend Mr. Mole . 
Proud , I'm sure , said the Otter , and the two animals were friends forthwith . 
Such a rumpus everywhere ! continued the Otter . 
All the world seems out on the river to day . 
I came up this backwater to try and get a moment's peace , and then stumble upon you fellows ! At least I beg pardon I don't exactly mean that , you know . 
Come on , old Badger ! shouted the Rat . 
The Badger trotted forward a pace or two then grunted , H'm ! Company , and turned his back and disappeared from view . 
That's JUST the sort of fellow he is ! observed the disappointed Rat . 
Simply hates Society ! Now we shan't see any more of him to day . 
Well , tell us , WHO'S out on the river ? Toad's out , for one , replied the Otter . 
In his brand new wager boat new togs , new everything ! The two animals looked at each other and laughed . 
Once , it was nothing but sailing , said the Rat , Then he tired of that and took to punting . 
Nothing would please him but to punt all day and every day , and a nice mess he made of it . 
Last year it was house boating , and we all had to go and stay with him in his house boat , and pretend we liked it . 
He was going to spend the rest of his life in a house boat . 
It's all the same , whatever he takes up he gets tired of it , and starts on something fresh . 
The Rat stood up and hailed him , but Toad for it was he shook his head and settled sternly to his work . 
He'll be out of the boat in a minute if he rolls like that , said the Rat , sitting down again . 
Of course he will , chuckled the Otter . 
Did I ever tell you that good story about Toad and the lock keeper ? It happened this way . 
An errant May fly swerved unsteadily athwart the current in the intoxicated fashion affected by young bloods of May flies seeing life . 
A swirl of water and a cloop ! and the May fly was visible no more . 
The voice was still in his ears , but the turf whereon he had sprawled was clearly vacant . 
Not an Otter to be seen , as far as the distant horizon . 
But again there was a streak of bubbles on the surface of the river . 
Well , well , said the Rat , I suppose we ought to be moving . 
I wonder which of us had better pack the luncheon basket ? He did not speak as if he was frightfully eager for the treat . 
O , please let me , said the Mole . 
So , of course , the Rat let him . 
Packing the basket was not quite such pleasant work as unpacking' the basket . 
The afternoon sun was getting low as the Rat sculled gently homewards in a dreamy mood , murmuring poetry things over to himself , and not paying much attention to Mole . 
and was getting a bit restless besides and presently he said , Ratty ! Please , I want to row , now ! The Rat shook his head with a smile . 
Not yet , my young friend , he said 'wait till you've had a few lessons . 
It's not so easy as it looks . 
The Mole was quiet for a minute or two . 
Stop it , you SILLY ass ! cried the Rat , from the bottom of the boat . 
You can't do it ! You'll have us over ! The Mole flung his sculls back with a flourish , and made a great dig at the water . 
He missed the surface altogether , his legs flew up above his head , and he found himself lying on the top of the prostrate Rat . 
Greatly alarmed , he made a grab at the side of the boat , and the next moment Sploosh ! Over went the boat , and he found himself struggling in the river . 
O my , how cold the water was , and O , how VERY wet it felt . 
It was the Rat , and he was evidently laughing the Mole could FEEL him laughing , right down his arm and through his paw , and so into his the Mole's neck . 
My heart quite fails me when I think how I might have lost that beautiful luncheon basket . 
Indeed , I have been a complete ass , and I know it . 
Will you overlook it this once and forgive me , and let things go on as before ? That's all right , bless you ! responded the Rat cheerily . 
What's a little wet to a Water Rat ? I'm more in the water than out of it most days . 
Don't you think any more about it and , look here ! I really think you had better come and stop with me for a little time . 
It's very plain and rough , you know not like Toad's house at all but you haven't seen that yet still , I can make you comfortable . 
And I'll teach you to row , and to swim , and you'll soon be as handy on the water as any of us . 
Very thrilling stories they were , too , to an earth dwelling animal like Mole . 
This day was only the first of many similar ones for the emancipated Mole , each of them longer and full of interest as the ripening summer moved onward . 
II THE OPEN ROAD Ratty , said the Mole suddenly , one bright summer morning , if you please , I want to ask you a favour . 
The Rat was sitting on the river bank , singing a little song . 
He had just composed it himself , so he was very taken up with it , and would not pay proper attention to Mole or anything else . 
Since early morning he had been swimming in the river , in company with his friends the ducks . 
At last they implored him to go away and attend to his own affairs and leave them to mind theirs . 
So the Rat went away , and sat on the river bank in the sun , and made up a song about them , which he called DUCKS' DITTY . 
He was no poet himself and didn't care who knew it and he had a candid nature . 
Nor don't the ducks neither , replied the Rat cheerfully . 
So it is , so it is , said the Mole , with great heartiness . 
No , it isn't ! cried the Rat indignantly . 
Well then , it isn't , it isn't , replied the Mole soothingly . 
Why , certainly , said the good natured Rat , jumping to his feet and dismissing poetry from his mind for the day . 
Get the boat out , and we'll paddle up there at once . 
It's never the wrong time to call on Toad . 
Early or late he's always the same fellow . 
He is indeed the best of animals , replied Rat . 
So simple , so good natured , and so affectionate . 
Perhaps he's not very clever we can't all be geniuses and it may be that he is both boastful and conceited . 
But he has got some great qualities , has Toady . 
Rounding a bend in the river , they came in sight of a handsome , dignified old house of mellowed red brick , with well kept lawns reaching down to the water's edge . 
There's Toad Hall , said the Rat and that creek on the left , where the notice board says , Private . 
No landing allowed , leads to his boat house , where we'll leave the boat . 
The stables are over there to the right . 
That's the banqueting hall you're looking at now very old , that is . 
Toad is rather rich , you know , and this is really one of the nicest houses in these parts , though we never admit as much to Toad . 
They glided up the creek , and the Mole slipped his sculls as they passed into the shadow of a large boat house . 
The Rat looked around him . 
I understand , said he . 
He's tired of it , and done with it . 
I wonder what new fad he has taken up now ? Come along and let's look him up . 
We shall hear all about it quite soon enough . 
Hooray ! he cried , jumping up on seeing them , this is splendid ! He shook the paws of both of them warmly , never waiting for an introduction to the Mole . 
How KIND of you ! he went on , dancing round them . 
I want you badly both of you . 
Finest house on the whole river , cried Toad boisterously . 
Or anywhere else , for that matter , he could not help adding . 
Here the Rat nudged the Mole . 
Unfortunately the Toad saw him do it , and turned very red . 
There was a moment's painful silence . 
Then Toad burst out laughing . 
All right , Ratty , he said . 
It's only my way , you know . 
And it's not such a very bad house , is it ? You know you rather like it yourself . 
You are the very animals I wanted . 
You've got to help me . 
It's most important ! It's about your rowing , I suppose , said the Rat , with an innocent air . 
You're getting on fairly well , though you splash a good bit still . 
With a great deal of patience , and any quantity of coaching , you may O , pooh ! boating ! interrupted the Toad , in great disgust . 
I've given that up LONG ago . 
Sheer waste of time , that's what it is . 
It makes me downright sorry to see you fellows , who ought to know better , spending all your energies in that aimless manner . 
No , I've discovered the real thing , the only genuine occupation for a life time . 
I propose to devote the remainder of mine to it , and can only regret the wasted years that lie behind me , squandered in trivialities . 
There you are ! cried the Toad , straddling and expanding himself . 
There's real life for you , embodied in that little cart . 
Come inside and look at the arrangements . 
Planned 'em all myself , I did ! The Mole was tremendously interested and excited , and followed him eagerly up the steps and into the interior of the caravan . 
The Rat only snorted and thrust his hands deep into his pockets , remaining where he was . 
It was indeed very compact and comfortable . 
All complete ! said the Toad triumphantly , pulling open a locker . 
You see biscuits , potted lobster , sardines everything you can possibly want . 
I can't possibly manage without you , so please consider it settled , and don't argue it's the one thing I can't stand . 
I'm not coming , and that's flat . 
And I AM going to stick to my old river , AND live in a hole , AND boat , as I've always done . 
And what's more , Mole's going to stick me and do as I do , aren't you , Mole ? Of course I am , said the Mole , loyally . 
I'll always stick to you , Rat , and what you say is to be has got to be . 
All the same , it sounds as if it might have been well , rather fun , you know ! he added , wistfully . 
The Rat saw what was passing in his mind , and wavered . 
He hated disappointing people , and he was fond of the Mole , and would do almost anything to oblige him . 
Toad was watching both of them closely . 
Come along in , and have some lunch , he said , diplomatically , and we'll talk it over . 
We needn't decide anything in a hurry . 
Of course , I don't really care . 
I only want to give pleasure to you fellows . 
Live for others ! That's my motto in life . 
During luncheon which was excellent , of course , as everything at Toad Hall always was the Toad simply let himself go . 
Disregarding the Rat , he proceeded to play upon the inexperienced Mole as on a harp . 
He could not bear to disappoint his two friends , who were already deep in schemes and anticipations , planning out each day's separate occupation for several weeks ahead . 
He frankly preferred the paddock , and took a deal of catching . 
Meantime Toad packed the lockers still tighter with necessaries , and hung nosebags , nets of onions , bundles of hay , and baskets from the bottom of the cart . 
It was a golden afternoon . 
You KNOW I don't , Toad . 
I'll do whatever you like , Ratty , he whispered . 
Thanks awfully , but I ought to stick by Toad till this trip is ended . 
It wouldn't be safe for him to be left to himself . 
It won't take very long . 
Good night ! The end was indeed nearer than even the Rat suspected . 
After so much open air and excitement the Toad slept very soundly , and no amount of shaking could rouse him out of bed next morning . 
The old grey horse , dreaming , as he plodded along , of his quiet paddock , in a new raw situation such as this simply abandoned himself to his natural emotions . 
It wavered an instant then there was a heartrending crash and the canary coloured cart , their pride and their joy , lay on its side in the ditch , an irredeemable wreck . 
The Rat danced up and down in the road , simply transported with passion . 
Toad sat straight down in the middle of the dusty road , his legs stretched out before him , and stared fixedly in the direction of the disappearing motor car . 
Then he went to look at the cart , on its side in the ditch . 
It was indeed a sorry sight . 
The Rat came to help him , but their united efforts were not sufficient to right the cart . 
Hi ! Toad ! they cried . 
They found him in a sort of a trance , a happy smile on his face , his eyes still fixed on the dusty wake of their destroyer . 
At intervals he was still heard to murmur Poop poop ! The Rat shook him by the shoulder . 
Are you coming to help us , Toad ? he demanded sternly . 
Glorious , stirring sight ! murmured Toad , never offering to move . 
And to think I never KNEW ! went on the Toad in a dreamy monotone . 
Nothing at all , replied the Rat firmly . 
Because there is really nothing to be done . 
You see , I know him from of old . 
He has got a new craze , and it always takes him that way , in its first stage . 
He'll continue like that for days now , like an animal walking in a happy dream , quite useless for all practical purposes . 
Let's go and see what there is to be done about the cart . 
A careful inspection showed them that , even if they succeeded in righting it by themselves , the cart would travel no longer . 
The axles were in a hopeless state , and the missing wheel was shattered into pieces . 
The Rat knotted the horse's reins over his back and took him by the head , carrying the bird cage and its hysterical occupant in the other hand . 
Come on ! he said grimly to the Mole . 
It's five or six miles to the nearest town , and we shall just have to walk it . 
The sooner we make a start the better . 
But what about Toad ? asked the Mole anxiously , as they set off together . 
We can't leave him here , sitting in the middle of the road by himself , in the distracted state he's in ! It's not safe . 
And then you'll have to go to a blacksmith's or a wheelwright's and arrange for the cart to be fetched and mended and put to rights . 
It'll take time , but it's not quite a hopeless smash . 
Meanwhile , the Mole and I will go to an inn and find comfortable rooms where we can stay till the cart's ready , and till your nerves have recovered their shock . 
Police station ! Complaint ! 'murmured Toad dreamily . 
Me COMPLAIN of that beautiful , that heavenly vision that has been vouchsafed me ! MEND THE CART ! I've done with carts for ever . 
I never want to see the cart , or to hear of it , again . 
You see what it is ? he said to the Mole , addressing him across Toad's head He's quite hopeless . 
And if ever you catch me going a pleasuring with this provoking animal again ! He snorted , and during the rest of that weary trudge addressed his remarks exclusively to Mole . 
On reaching the town they went straight to the station and deposited Toad in the second class waiting room , giving a porter twopence to keep a strict eye on him . 
They then left the horse at an inn stable , and gave what directions they could about the cart and its contents . 
Heard the news ? he said . 
There's nothing else being talked about , all along the river bank . 
Toad went up to Town by an early train this morning . 
And he has ordered a large and very expensive motor car . 
III THE WILD WOOD The Mole had long wanted to make the I acquaintance of the Badger . 
He seemed , by all accounts , to be such an important personage and , though rarely visible , to make his unseen influence felt by everybody about the place . 
But whenever the Mole mentioned his wish to the Water Rat he always found himself put off . 
It's all right , the Rat would say . 
Badger'll turn up some day or other he's always turning up and then I'll introduce you . 
The best of fellows ! But you must not only take him AS you find him , but WHEN you find him . 
Couldn't you ask him here dinner or something ? said the Mole . 
He wouldn't come , replied the Rat simply . 
Badger hates Society , and invitations , and dinner , and all that sort of thing . 
Well , then , supposing we go and call on HIM ? suggested the Mole . 
O , I'm sure he wouldn't like that at ALL , said the Rat , quite alarmed . 
He's so very shy , he'd be sure to be offended . 
I've never even ventured to call on him at his own home myself , though I know him so well . 
It's quite out of the question , because he lives in the very middle of the Wild Wood . 
Well , supposing he does , said the Mole . 
You told me the Wild Wood was all right , you know . 
O , I know , I know , so it is , replied the Rat evasively . 
But I think we won't go there just now . 
It's a long way , and he wouldn't be at home at this time of year anyhow , and he'll be coming along some day , if you'll wait quietly . 
The Mole had to be content with this . 
In the winter time the Rat slept a great deal , retiring early and rising late . 
Purple loosestrife arrived early , shaking luxuriant tangled locks along the edge of the mirror whence its own face laughed back at it . 
Willow herb , tender and wistful , like a pink sunset cloud , was not slow to follow . 
But when meadow sweet , debonair and odorous in amber jerkin , moved graciously to his place in the group , then the play was ready to begin . 
It was a cold still afternoon with a hard steely sky overhead , when he slipped out of the warm parlour into the open air . 
It was pitiful in a way , and yet cheering even exhilarating . 
He was glad that he liked the country undecorated , hard , and stripped of its finery . 
He had got down to the bare bones of it , and they were fine and strong and simple . 
There was nothing to alarm him at first entry . 
It led him on , and he penetrated to where the light was less , and trees crouched nearer and nearer , and holes made ugly mouths at him on either side . 
Everything was very still now . 
The dusk advanced on him steadily , rapidly , gathering in behind and before and the light seemed to be draining away like flood water . 
It was over his shoulder , and indistinctly , that he first thought he saw a face a little evil wedge shaped face , looking out at him from a hole . 
When he turned and confronted it , the thing had vanished . 
He quickened his pace , telling himself cheerfully not to begin imagining things , or there would be simply no end to it . 
He hesitated braced himself up for an effort and strode on . 
If he could only get away from the holes in the banks , he thought , there would be no more faces . 
He swung off the path and plunged into the untrodden places of the wood . 
Very faint and shrill it was , and far behind him , when first he heard it but somehow it made him hurry forward . 
Then , still very faint and shrill , it sounded far ahead of him , and made him hesitate and want to go back . 
As he halted in indecision it broke out on either side , and seemed to be caught up and passed on throughout the whole length of the wood to its farthest limit . 
He thought it was only falling leaves at first , so slight and delicate was the sound of it . 
Then as it grew it took a regular rhythm , and he knew it for nothing else but the pat pat pat of little feet still a very long way off . 
Was it in front or behind ? It seemed to be first one , and then the other , then both . 
It grew and it multiplied , till from every quarter as he listened anxiously , leaning this way and that , it seemed to be closing in on him . 
As he stood still to hearken , a rabbit came running hard towards him through the trees . 
He waited , expecting it to slacken pace , or to swerve from him into a different course . 
Instead , the animal almost brushed him as it dashed past , his face set and hard , his eyes staring . 
Get out of this , you fool , get out ! the Mole heard him mutter as he swung round a stump and disappeared down a friendly burrow . 
The pattering increased till it sounded like sudden hail on the dry leaf carpet spread around him . 
He ran up against things , he fell over things and into things , he darted under things and dodged round things . 
His paper of half finished verses slipped from his knee , his head fell back , his mouth opened , and he wandered by the verdant banks of dream rivers . 
Then a coal slipped , the fire crackled and sent up a spurt of flame , and he woke with a start . 
But the Mole was not there . 
He listened for a time . 
The house seemed very quiet . 
Then he called Moly ! several times , and , receiving no answer , got up and went out into the hall . 
The Mole's cap was missing from its accustomed peg . 
His goloshes , which always lay by the umbrella stand , were also gone . 
The Rat left the house , and carefully examined the muddy surface of the ground outside , hoping to find the Mole's tracks . 
There they were , sure enough . 
The goloshes were new , just bought for the winter , and the pimples on their soles were fresh and sharp . 
He could see the imprints of them in the mud , running along straight and purposeful , leading direct to the Wild Wood . 
The Rat looked very grave , and stood in deep thought for a minute or two . 
It was already getting towards dusk when he reached the first fringe of trees and plunged without hesitation into the wood , looking anxiously on either side for any sign of his friend . 
O Rat ! he cried , I've been so frightened , you can't think ! O , I quite understand , said the Rat soothingly . 
You shouldn't really have gone and done it , Mole . 
I did my best to keep you from it . 
We river bankers , we hardly ever come here by ourselves . 
If we have to come , we come in couples , at least then we're generally all right . 
Besides , there are a hundred things one has to know , which we understand all about and you don't , as yet . 
Of course if you were Badger or Otter , it would be quite another matter . 
Surely the brave Mr. Toad wouldn't mind coming here by himself , would he ? inquired the Mole . 
Old Toad ? said the Rat , laughing heartily . 
He wouldn't show his face here alone , not for a whole hatful of golden guineas , Toad wouldn't . 
Now then , said the Rat presently , we really must pull ourselves together and make a start for home while there's still a little light left . 
It will never do to spend the night here , you understand . 
Too cold , for one thing . 
Dear Ratty , said the poor Mole , I'm dreadfully sorry , but I'm simply dead beat and that's a solid fact . 
You MUST let me rest here a while longer , and get my strength back , if I'm to get home at all . 
O , all right , said the good natured Rat , rest away . 
It's pretty nearly pitch dark now , anyhow and there ought to be a bit of a moon later . 
He went to the entrance of their retreat and put his head out . 
Then the Mole heard him saying quietly to himself , Hullo ! hullo ! here is a go ! What's up , Ratty ? asked the Mole . 
SNOW is up , replied the Rat briefly or rather , DOWN . 
The Mole came and crouched beside him , and , looking out , saw the wood that had been so dreadful to him in quite a changed aspect . 
Well , well , it can't be helped , said the Rat , after pondering . 
We must make a start , and take our chance , I suppose . 
The worst of it is , I don't exactly know where we are . 
And now this snow makes everything look so very different . 
The Mole would not have known that it was the same wood . 
There seemed to be no end to this wood , and no beginning , and no difference in it , and , worst of all , no way out . 
We can't sit here very long , said the Rat . 
We shall have to make another push for it , and do something or other . 
The cold is too awful for anything , and the snow will soon be too deep for us to wade through . 
He peered about him and considered . 
Look here , he went on , this is what occurs to me . 
There's a sort of dell down here in front of us , where the ground seems all hilly and humpy and hummocky . 
Besides , the snow may leave off , or something may turn up . 
They were investigating one of the hummocky bits the Rat had spoken of , when suddenly the Mole tripped up and fell forward on his face with a squeal . 
O my leg ! he cried . 
O my poor shin ! and he sat up on the snow and nursed his leg in both his front paws . 
Poor old Mole ! said the Rat kindly . 
You don't seem to be having much luck to day , do you ? Let's have a look at the leg . 
Yes , he went on , going down on his knees to look , you've cut your shin , sure enough . 
Wait till I get at my handkerchief , and I'll tie it up for you . 
I must have tripped over a hidden branch or a stump , said the Mole miserably . 
O , my ! O , my ! It's a very clean cut , said the Rat , examining it again attentively . 
That was never done by a branch or a stump . 
Looks as if it was made by a sharp edge of something in metal . 
Funny ! He pondered awhile , and examined the humps and slopes that surrounded them . 
Well , never mind what done it , said the Mole , forgetting his grammar in his pain . 
It hurts just the same , whatever done it . 
But the Rat , after carefully tying up the leg with his handkerchief , had left him and was busy scraping in the snow . 
What HAVE you found , Ratty ? asked the Mole , still nursing his leg . 
Come and see ! said the delighted Rat , as he jigged on . 
The Mole hobbled up to the spot and had a good look . 
Well , he said at last , slowly , I SEE it right enough . 
Seen the same sort of thing before , lots of times . 
Familiar object , I call it . 
Of course I see what it means , replied the Mole . 
It simply means that some VERY careless and forgetful person has left his door scraper lying about in the middle of the Wild Wood , JUST where it's SURE to trip EVERYBODY up . 
Very thoughtless of him , I call it . 
Here , stop arguing and come and scrape ! And he set to work again and made the snow fly in all directions around him . 
After some further toil his efforts were rewarded , and a very shabby door mat lay exposed to view . 
There , what did I tell you ? exclaimed the Rat in great triumph . 
Absolutely nothing whatever , replied the Mole , with perfect truthfulness . 
Well now , he went on , you seem to have found another piece of domestic litter , done for and thrown away , and I suppose you're perfectly happy . 
Who ever heard of a door mat TELLING anyone anything ? They simply don't do it . 
They are not that sort at all . 
Door mats know their place . 
Now look here , you you thick headed beast , replied the Rat , really angry , this must stop . 
Some ten minutes' hard work , and the point of the Rat's cudgel struck something that sounded hollow . 
He worked till he could get a paw through and feel then called the Mole to come and help him . 
Hard at it went the two animals , till at last the result of their labours stood full in view of the astonished and hitherto incredulous Mole . 
In the side of what had seemed to be a snow bank stood a solid looking little door , painted a dark green . 
The Mole fell backwards on the snow from sheer surprise and delight . 
Rat ! he cried in penitence , you're a wonder ! A real wonder , that's what you are . 
Your intellect went on working . 
Let me only just find a door mat , says you to yourself , and my theory is proved ! And of course you found your door mat . 
You're so clever , I believe you could find anything you liked . 
Now , says you , that door exists , as plain as if I saw it . 
You ought to go where you'll be properly appreciated . 
You're simply wasted here , among us fellows . 
BADGER THEY waited patiently for what seemed a very long time , stamping in the snow to keep their feet warm . 
At last they heard the sound of slow shuflling footsteps approaching the door from the inside . 
There was the noise of a bolt shot back , and the door opened a few inches , enough to show a long snout and a pair of sleepy blinking eyes . 
Now , the VERY next time this happens , said a gruff and suspicious voice , I shall be exceedingly angry . 
Who is it THIS time , disturbing people on such a night ? Speak up ! Oh , Badger , cried the Rat , let us in , please . 
It's me , Rat , and my friend Mole , and we've lost our way in the snow . 
What , Ratty , my dear little man ! exclaimed the Badger , in quite a different voice . 
Come along in , both of you , at once . 
Why , you must be perished . 
Well I never ! Lost in the snow ! And in the Wild Wood , too , and at this time of night ! But come in with you . 
The two animals tumbled over each other in their eagerness to get inside , and heard the door shut behind them with great joy and relief . 
He looked kindly down on them and patted both their heads . 
This is not the sort of night for small animals to be out , he said paternally . 
I'm afraid you've been up to some of your pranks again , Ratty . 
But come along come into the kitchen . 
There's a first rate fire there , and supper and everything . 
But there were doors in the hall as well stout oaken comfortable looking doors . 
One of these the Badger flung open , and at once they found themselves in all the glow and warmth of a large fire lit kitchen . 
A couple of high backed settles , facing each other on either side of the fire , gave further sitting accommodations for the sociably disposed . 
In the middle of the room stood a long table of plain boards placed on trestles , with benches down each side . 
At one end of it , where an arm chair stood pushed back , were spread the remains of the Badger's plain but ample supper . 
The kindly Badger thrust them down on a settle to toast themselves at the fire , and bade them remove their wet coats and boots . 
When at last they were thoroughly toasted , the Badger summoned them to the table , where he had been busy laying a repast . 
Conversation was impossible for a long time and when it was slowly resumed , it was that regrettable sort of conversation that results from talking with your mouth full . 
The Badger did not mind that sort of thing at all , nor did he take any notice of elbows on the table , or everybody speaking at once . 
As he did not go into Society himself , he had got an idea that these things belonged to the things that didn't really matter . 
The Mole began to feel very friendly towards him . 
Another smash up only last week , and a bad one . 
You see , he will insist on driving himself , and he's hopelessly incapable . 
If he'd only employ a decent , steady , well trained animal , pay him good wages , and leave everything to him , he'd get on all right . 
But no he's convinced he's a heaven born driver , and nobody can teach him anything and all the rest follows . 
How many has he had ? inquired the Badger gloomily . 
Smashes , or machines ? asked the Rat . 
Oh , well , after all , it's the same thing with Toad . 
He's been in hospital three times , put in the Mole and as for the fines he's had to pay , it's simply awful to think of . 
Yes , and that's part of the trouble , continued the Rat . 
Toad's rich , we all know but he's not a millionaire . 
And he's a hopelessly bad driver , and quite regardless of law and order . 
Killed or ruined it's got to be one of the two things , sooner or later . 
Badger ! we're his friends oughtn't we to do something ? The Badger went through a bit of hard thinking . 
Now look here ! he said at last , rather severely of course you know I can't do anything NOW ? His two friends assented , quite understanding his point . 
No animal , according to the rules of animal etiquette , is ever expected to do anything strenuous , or heroic , or even moderately active during the off season of winter . 
All are sleepy some actually asleep . 
Very well then ! continued the Badger . 
THEY knew ! Well , THEN , went on the Badger , we that is , you and me and our friend the Mole here we'll take Toad seriously in hand . 
We'll stand no nonsense whatever . 
We'll bring him back to reason , by force if need be . 
We'll MAKE him be a sensible Toad . 
We'll you're asleep , Rat ! Not me ! said the Rat , waking up with a jerk . 
He's been asleep two or three times since supper , said the Mole , laughing . 
He himself was feeling quite wakeful and even lively , though he didn't know why . 
Well , it's time we were all in bed , said the Badger , getting up and fetching flat candlesticks . 
Come along , you two , and I'll show you your quarters . 
And take your time tomorrow morning breakfast at any hour you please ! He conducted the two animals to a long room that seemed half bedchamber and half loft . 
The hedgehogs dropped their spoons , rose to their feet , and ducked their heads respectfully as the two entered . 
There , sit down , sit down , said the Rat pleasantly , and go on with your porridge . 
Where have you youngsters come from ? Lost your way in the snow , I suppose ? Yes , please , sir , said the elder of the two hedgehogs respectfully . 
And what's the weather like outside ? You needn't sir me quite so much ? he added . 
O , terrible bad , sir , terrible deep the snow is , said the hedgehog . 
No getting out for the likes of you gentlemen to day . 
Where's Mr. Badger ? inquired the Mole , as he warmed the coffee pot before the fire . 
This explanation , of course , was thoroughly understood by every one present . 
The front door bell clanged loudly , and the Rat , who was very greasy with buttered toast , sent Billy , the smaller hedgehog , to see who it might be . 
Get off ! spluttered the Rat , with his mouth full . 
Thought I should find you here all right , said the Otter cheerfully . 
They were all in a great state of alarm along River Bank when I arrived this morning . 
Rat never been home all night nor Mole either something dreadful must have happened , they said and the snow had covered up all your tracks , of course . 
Snow castles and snow caverns had sprung up out of nowhere in the night and snow bridges , terraces , ramparts I could have stayed and played with them for hours . 
About halfway across I came on a rabbit sitting on a stump , cleaning his silly face with his paws . 
He was a pretty scared animal when I crept up behind him and placed a heavy forepaw on his shoulder . 
I had to cuff his head once or twice to get any sense out of it at all . 
At last I managed to extract from him that Mole had been seen in the Wild Wood last night by one of them . 
Then why didn't any of you DO something ? I asked . 
What , US ? he merely said DO something ? us rabbits ? So I cuffed him again and left him . 
There was nothing else to be done . 
At any rate , I had learnt something and if I had had the luck to meet any of Them I'd have learnt something more or THEY would . 
Weren't you at all er nervous ? asked the Mole , some of yesterday's terror coming back to him at the mention of the Wild Wood . 
Nervous ? The Otter showed a gleaming set of strong white teeth as he laughed . 
I'd give 'em nerves if any of them tried anything on with me . 
Here , Mole , fry me some slices of ham , like the good little chap you are . 
I'm frightfully hungry , and I've got any amount to say to Ratty here . 
Haven't seen him for an age . 
It must be getting on for luncheon time , he remarked to the Otter . 
Better stop and have it with us . 
You must be hungry , this cold morning . 
Rather ! replied the Otter , winking at the Mole . 
The sight of these greedy young hedgehogs stuffing themselves with fried ham makes me feel positively famished . 
Here , you two youngsters be off home to your mother , said the Badger kindly . 
I'll send some one with you to show you the way . 
You won't want any dinner to day , I'll be bound . 
He gave them sixpence apiece and a pat on the head , and they went off with much respectful swinging of caps and touching of forelocks . 
Presently they all sat down to luncheon together . 
Once well underground , he said , you know exactly where you are . 
Nothing can happen to you , and nothing can get at you . 
You're entirely your own master , and you don't have to consult anybody or mind what they say . 
Things go on all the same overhead , and you let 'em , and don't bother about 'em . 
When you want to , up you go , and there the things are , waiting for you . 
The Badger simply beamed on him . 
That's exactly what I say , he replied . 
There's no security , or peace and tranquillity , except underground . 
Look at Rat , now . 
A couple of feet of flood water , and he's got to move into hired lodgings uncomfortable , inconveniently situated , and horribly expensive . 
I say nothing against Toad Hall quite the best house in these parts , AS a house . 
When lunch is over , he said , I'll take you all round this little place of mine . 
I can see you'll appreciate it . 
You understand what domestic architecture ought to be , you do . 
A narrow passage at right angles led them into another corridor , and here the same thing was repeated . 
But as a matter of fact I did none of it only cleaned out the passages and chambers , as far as I had need of them . 
There's lots more of it , all round about . 
I see you don't understand , and I must explain it to you . 
Here , where we are standing , they lived , and walked , and talked , and slept , and carried on their business . 
Here they stabled their horses and feasted , from here they rode out to fight or drove out to trade . 
They were a powerful people , and rich , and great builders . 
They built to last , for they thought their city would last for ever . 
But what has become of them all ? asked the Mole . 
Who can tell ? said the Badger . 
People come they stay for a while , they flourish , they build and they go . 
There were badgers here , I've been told , long before that same city ever came to be . 
And now there are badgers here again . 
We are an enduring lot , and we may move out for a time , but we wait , and are patient , and back we come . 
And so it will ever be . 
Well , and when they went at last , those people ? said the Mole . 
When they went , continued the Badger , the strong winds and persistent rains took the matter in hand , patiently , ceaselessly , year after year . 
Perhaps we badgers too , in our small way , helped a little who knows ? It was all down , down , down , gradually ruin and levelling and disappearance . 
Then it was all up , up , up , gradually , as seeds grew to saplings , and saplings to forest trees , and bramble and fern came creeping in to help . 
Up above us , on the surface , the same thing happened . 
Animals arrived , liked the look of the place , took up their quarters , settled down , spread , and flourished . 
They didn't bother themselves about the past they never do they're too busy . 
The place was a bit humpy and hillocky , naturally , and full of holes but that was rather an advantage . 
And they don't bother about the future , either the future when perhaps the people will move in again for a time as may very well be . 
The Wild Wood is pretty well populated by now with all the usual lot , good , bad , and indifferent I name no names . 
It takes all sorts to make a world . 
But I fancy you know something about them yourself by this time . 
I do indeed , said the Mole , with a slight shiver . 
Well , well , said the Badger , patting him on the shoulder , it was your first experience of them , you see . 
They're not so bad really and we must all live and let live . 
But I'll pass the word around to morrow , and I think you'll have no further trouble . 
The underground atmosphere was oppressing him and getting on his nerves , and he seemed really to be afraid that the river would run away if he wasn't there to look after it . 
So he had his overcoat on , and his pistols thrust into his belt again . 
Come along , Mole , he said anxiously , as soon as he caught sight of them . 
We must get off while it's daylight . 
Don't want to spend another night in the Wild Wood again . 
It'll be all right , my fine fellow , said the Otter . 
I'm coming along with you , and I know every path blindfold and if there's a head that needs to be punched , you can confidently rely upon me to punch it . 
You really needn't fret , Ratty , added the Badger placidly . 
My passages run further than you think , and I've bolt holes to the edge of the wood in several directions , though I don't care for everybody to know about them . 
When you really have to go , you shall leave by one of my short cuts . 
Meantime , make yourself easy , and sit down again . 
They found themselves standing on the very edge of the Wild Wood . 
The Otter , as knowing all the paths , took charge of the party , and they trailed out on a bee line for a distant stile . 
Oh , never mind ! said the Rat . 
At this season of the year they're all safe indoors by this time , sitting round the fire men , women , and children , dogs and cats and all . 
We shall slip through all right , without any bother or unpleasantness , and we can have a look at them through their windows if you like , and see what they're doing . 
The rapid nightfall of mid December had quite beset the little village as they approached it on soft feet over a first thin fall of powdery snow . 
Close against the white blind hung a bird cage , clearly silhouetted , every wire , perch , and appurtenance distinct and recognisable , even to yesterday's dull edged lump of sugar . 
As they looked , the sleepy little fellow stirred uneasily , woke , shook himself , and raised his head . 
They plodded along steadily and silently , each of them thinking his own thoughts . 
He stopped dead in his tracks , his nose searching hither and thither in its efforts to recapture the fine filament , the telegraphic current , that had so strongly moved him . 
A moment , and he had caught it again and with it this time came recollection in fullest flood . 
The call was clear , the summons was plain . 
He must obey it instantly , and go . 
PLEASE stop , Ratty ! pleaded the poor Mole , in anguish of heart . 
You don't understand ! It's my home , my old home ! I've just come across the smell of it , and it's close by here , really quite close . 
And he was much taken up with the weather , for he too could smell something something suspiciously like approaching snow . 
Mole , we mustn't stop now , really ! he called back . 
We'll come for it to morrow , whatever it is you've found . 
But even under such a test as this his loyalty to his friend stood firm . 
Never for a moment did he dream of abandoning him . 
Meanwhile , the wafts from his old home pleaded , whispered , conjured , and finally claimed him imperiously . 
He dared not tarry longer within their magic circle . 
No talk left in you , and your feet dragging like lead . 
We'll sit down here for a minute and rest . 
The snow has held off so far , and the best part of our journey is over . 
The Mole subsided forlornly on a tree stump and tried to control himself , for he felt it surely coming . 
The sob he had fought with so long refused to be beaten . 
The Rat , astonished and dismayed at the violence of Mole's paroxysm of grief , did not dare to speak for a while . 
Poor Mole found it difficult to get any words out between the upheavals of his chest that followed one upon another so quickly and held back speech and choked it as it came . 
The Rat stared straight in front of him , saying nothing , only patting Mole gently on the shoulder . 
, Ratty ? cried the tearful Mole , looking up in alarm . 
Oh , come back , Ratty , do ! cried the Mole , getting up and hurrying after him . 
I tell you , I'm going to find this place now , if I stay out all night . 
So cheer up , old chap , and take my arm , and we'll very soon be back there again . 
Business ! Use your nose , and give your mind to it . 
Instantly he disengaged himself , fell back a pace , and waited , all attention . 
The signals were coming through ! Mole stood a moment rigid , while his uplifted nose , quivering slightly , felt the air . 
Then a short , quick run forward a fault a check a try back and then a slow , steady , confident advance . 
Suddenly , without giving warning , he dived but the Rat was on the alert , and promptly followed him down the tunnel to which his unerring nose had faithfully led him . 
Mole reached down a lantern from a nail on the wail and lit it , and the Rat , looking round him , saw that they were in a sort of fore court . 
Down on one side of the forecourt ran a skittle alley , with benches along it and little wooden tables marked with rings that hinted at beer mugs . 
In the middle was a small round pond containing gold fish and surrounded by a cockle shell border . 
He was running here and there , opening doors , inspecting rooms and cupboards , and lighting lamps and candles and sticking them , up everywhere . 
What a capital little house this is ! he called out cheerily . 
So compact ! So well planned ! Everything here and everything in its place ! We'll make a jolly night of it . 
The first thing we want is a good fire I'll see to that I always know where to find things . 
Why , only just now I saw a sardine opener on the kitchen dresser , quite distinctly and everybody knows that means there are sardines about somewhere in the neighbourhood . 
Rouse yourself ! pull yourself together , and come with me and forage . 
They went and foraged accordingly , hunting through every cupboard and turning out every drawer . 
There's a banquet for you ! observed the Rat , as he arranged the table . 
And that reminds me what's that little door at the end of the passage ? Your cellar , of course ! Every luxury in this house ! Just you wait a minute . 
This is really the jolliest little place I ever was in . 
Now , wherever did you pick up those prints ? Make the place look so home like , they do . 
No wonder you're so fond of it , Mole . 
Tell us all about it , and how you came to make it what it is . 
Where's young Bill ? Here , come on , do , we're all a waiting What's up ? inquired the Rat , pausing in his labours . 
I think it must be the field mice , replied the Mole , with a touch of pride in his manner . 
They go round carol singing regularly at this time of the year . 
They're quite an institution in these parts . 
And they never pass me over they come to Mole End last of all and I used to give them hot drinks , and supper too sometimes , when I could afford it . 
It will be like old times to hear them again . 
Let's have a look at them ! cried the Rat , jumping up and running to the door . 
It was a pretty sight , and a seasonable one , that met their eyes when they flung the door open . 
With bright beady eyes they glanced shyly at each other , sniggering a little , sniffing and applying coat sleeves a good deal . 
Very well sung , boys ! cried the Rat heartily . 
This is quite like old times ! Shut the door after you . 
Pull up that settle to the fire . 
Now , you just wait a minute , while we O , Ratty ! he cried in despair , plumping down on a seat , with tears impending . 
Whatever are we doing ? We've nothing to give them ! You leave all that to me , said the masterful Rat . 
Here , you with the lantern ! Come over this way . 
I want to talk to you . 
Now , tell me , are there any shops open at this hour of the night ? Why , certainly , sir , replied the field mouse respectfully . 
At this time of the year our shops keep open to all sorts of hours . 
Then look here ! said the Rat . 
The Rat , meanwhile , was busy examining the label on one of the beer bottles . 
I perceive this to be Old Burton , he remarked approvingly . 
SENSIBLE Mole ! The very thing ! Now we shall be able to mull some ale ! Get the things ready , Mole , while I draw the corks . 
and wiping his eyes and laughing and forgetting he had ever been cold in all his life . 
They act plays too , these fellows , the Mole explained to the Rat . 
Make them up all by themselves , and act them afterwards . 
Here , YOU ! You were in it , I remember . 
Get up and recite a bit . 
The field mouse addressed got up on his legs , giggled shyly , looked round the room , and remained absolutely tongue tied . 
There was no more talk of play acting once the very real and solid contents of the basket had been tumbled out on the table . 
Under the generalship of Rat , everybody was set to do something or to fetch something . 
The Rat said little or nothing , only taking care that each guest had what he wanted , and plenty of it , and that Mole had no trouble or anxiety about anything . 
They clattered off at last , very grateful and showering wishes of the season , with their jacket pockets stuffed with remembrances for the small brothers and sisters at home . 
At last the Rat , with a tremendous yawn , said , Mole , old chap , I'm ready to drop . 
Sleepy is simply not the word . 
That your own bunk over on that side ? Very well , then , I'll take this . 
The weary Mole also was glad to turn in without delay , and soon had his head on his pillow , in great joy and contentment . 
He was now in just the frame of mind that the tactful Rat had quietly worked to bring about in him . 
Bother ! said the Rat , all over egg . 
See who it is , Mole , like a good chap , since you've finished . 
The Mole went to attend the summons , and the Rat heard him utter a cry of surprise . 
The Badger strode heavily into the room , and stood looking at the two animals with an expression full of seriousness . 
The Rat let his egg spoon fall on the table cloth , and sat open mouthed . 
The hour has come ! said the Badger at last with great solemnity . 
What hour ? asked the Rat uneasily , glancing at the clock on the mantelpiece . 
WHOSE hour , you should rather say , replied the Badger . 
good looking Toad into an Object which throws any decent minded animal that comes across it into a violent fit . 
We must be up and doing , ere it is too late . 
You two animals will accompany me instantly to Toad Hall , and the work of rescue shall be accomplished . 
Right you are ! cried the Rat , starting up . 
, standing in front of the house . 
Hullo ! come on , you fellows ! he cried cheerfully on catching sight of them . 
The Badger strode up the steps . 
Take him inside , he said sternly to his companions . 
Then , as Toad was hustled through the door , struggling and protesting , he turned to the chauffeur in charge of the new motor car . 
I'm afraid you won't be wanted to day , he said . 
Mr. Toad has changed his mind . 
He will not require the car . 
Please understand that this is final . 
Then he followed the others inside and shut the door . 
What is the meaning of this gross outrage ? I demand an instant explanation . 
Take them off him , then , you two , ordered the Badger briefly . 
They had to lay Toad out on the floor , kicking and calling all sorts of names , before they could get to work properly . 
Then the Rat sat on him , and the Mole got his motor clothes off him bit by bit , and they stood him up on his legs again . 
A good deal of his blustering spirit seemed to have evaporated with the removal of his fine panoply . 
You knew it must come to this , sooner or later , Toad , the Badger explained severely . 
Independence is all very well , but we animals never allow our friends to make fools of themselves beyond a certain limit and that limit you've reached . 
Now , you're a good fellow in many respects , and I don't want to be too hard on you . 
I'll make one more effort to bring you to reason . 
He took Toad firmly by the arm , led him into the smoking room , and closed the door behind them . 
THAT'S no good ! said the Rat contemptuously . 
TALKING to Toad'll never cure him . 
They made themselves comfortable in armchairs and waited patiently . 
After some three quarters of an hour the door opened , and the Badger reappeared , solemnly leading by the paw a very limp and dejected Toad . 
His skin hung baggily about him , his legs wobbled , and his cheeks were furrowed by the tears so plentifully called forth by the Badger's moving discourse . 
Sit down there , Toad , said the Badger kindly , pointing to a chair . 
My friends , he went on , I am pleased to inform you that Toad has at last seen the error of his ways . 
He is truly sorry for his misguided conduct in the past , and he has undertaken to give up motor cars entirely and for ever . 
I have his solemn promise to that effect . 
That is very good news , said the Mole gravely . 
There's only one thing more to be done , continued the gratified Badger . 
Toad , I want you solemnly to repeat , before your friends here , what you fully admitted to me in the smoking room just now . 
First , you are sorry for what you've done , and you see the folly of it all ? There was a long , long pause . 
Toad looked desperately this way and that , while the other animals waited in grave silence . 
No ! he said , a little sullenly , but stoutly I'm NOT sorry . 
And it wasn't folly at all ! It was simply glorious ! What ? cried the Badger , greatly scandalised . 
You backsliding animal , didn't you tell me just now , in there Oh , yes , yes , in THERE , said Toad impatiently . 
I'd have said anything in THERE . 
Very well , then , said the Badger firmly , rising to his feet . 
Since you won't yield to persuasion , we'll try what force can do . 
I feared it would come to this all along . 
You've often asked us three to come and stay with you , Toad , in this handsome house of yours well , now we're going to . 
When we've converted you to a proper point of view we may quit , but not before . 
Take him upstairs , you two , and lock him up in his bedroom , while we arrange matters between ourselves . 
It's for your own good , Toady , you know , said the Rat kindly , as Toad , kicking and struggling , was hauled up the stairs by his two faithful friends . 
No more of those regrettable incidents with the police , Toad , said the Rat , as they thrust him into his bedroom . 
And no more weeks in hospital , being ordered about by female nurses , Toad , added the Mole , turning the key on him . 
They descended the stair , Toad shouting abuse at them through the keyhole and the three friends then met in conference on the situation . 
It's going to be a tedious business , said the Badger , sighing . 
I've never seen Toad so determined . 
However , we will see it out . 
He must never be left an instant unguarded . 
We shall have to take it in turns to be with him , till the poison has worked itself out of his system . 
Each animal took it in turns to sleep in Toad's room at night , and they divided the day up between them . 
At first Toad was undoubtedly very trying to his careful guardians . 
As time passed , however , these painful seizures grew gradually less frequent , and his friends strove to divert his mind into fresh channels . 
But his interest in other matters did not seem to revive , and he grew apparently languid and depressed . 
Toad's still in bed , he told the Rat , outside the door . 
Now , you look out , Rat ! When Toad's quiet and submissive and playing at being the hero of a Sunday school prize , then he's at his artfullest . 
There's sure to be something up . 
Well , now , I must be off . 
How are you to day , old chap ? inquired the Rat cheerfully , as he approached Toad's bedside . 
He had to wait some minutes for an answer . 
Mole , he added incautiously , is going out for a run round with Badger . 
They'll be out till luncheon time , so you and I will spend a pleasant morning together , and I'll do my best to amuse you . 
I hate being a burden to my friends , and I do not expect to be one much longer . 
Indeed , I almost hope not . 
Well , I hope not , too , said the Rat heartily . 
You've been a fine bother to us all this time , and I'm glad to hear it's going to stop . 
I'm afraid it IS the trouble you mind , though , replied the Toad languidly . 
I can quite understand it . 
You're tired of bothering about me . 
I mustn't ask you to do anything further . 
I'm a nuisance , I know . 
You are , indeed , said the Rat . 
But I tell you , I'd take any trouble on earth for you , if only you'd be a sensible animal . 
It's only a trouble , and perhaps we may as well let things take their course . 
Why , what do you want a doctor for ? inquired the Rat , coming closer and examining him . 
He certainly lay very still and flat , and his voice was weaker and his manner much changed . 
Surely you have noticed of late murmured Toad . 
But , no why should you ? Noticing things is only a trouble . 
To morrow , indeed , you may be saying to yourself , O , if only I had noticed sooner ! If only I had done something ! But no it's a trouble . 
Never mind forget that I asked . 
Look here , old man , said the Rat , beginning to get rather alarmed , of course I'll fetch a doctor to you , if you really think you want him . 
But you can hardly be bad enough for that yet . 
Let's talk about something else . 
Outside , he stopped to consider . 
The other two were far away , and he had no one to consult . 
It's best to be on the safe side , he said , on reflection . 
I'd better humour him and go it won't take very long . 
So he ran off to the village on his errand of mercy . 
It was a gloomy luncheon for Rat when the Badger and the Mole at length returned , and he had to face them at table with his pitiful and unconvincing story . 
He did YOU awfully well ! rejoined the Badger hotly . 
However , talking won't mend matters . 
One comfort is , we're free now , and needn't waste any more of our precious time doing sentry go . 
But we'd better continue to sleep at Toad Hall for a while longer . 
Toad may be brought back at any moment on a stretcher , or between two policemen . 
Meanwhile , Toad , gay and irresponsible , was walking briskly along the high road , some miles from home . 
Smart piece of work that ! he remarked to himself chuckling . 
Brain against brute force and brain came out on the top as it's bound to do . 
I must take him in hand some day , and see if I can make something of him . 
He marched into the Inn , ordered the best luncheon that could be provided at so short a notice , and sat down to eat it in the coffee room . 
He was about half way through his meal when an only too familiar sound , approaching down the street , made him start and fall a trembling all over . 
Toad listened eagerly , all ears , for a time at last he could stand it no longer . 
He slipped out of the room quietly , paid his bill at the bar , and as soon as he got outside sauntered round quietly to the inn yard . 
Toad walked slowly round it , inspecting , criticising , musing deeply . 
As the familiar sound broke forth , the old passion seized on Toad and completely mastered him , body and soul . 
The Clerk scratched his nose with his pen . 
Some people would consider , he observed , that stealing the motor car was the worst offence and so it is . 
But cheeking the police undoubtedly carries the severest penalty and so it ought . 
So you had better make it a round twenty years and be on the safe side , concluded the Clerk . 
An excellent suggestion ! said the Chairman approvingly . 
Prisoner ! Pull yourself together and try and stand up straight . 
It's going to be twenty years for you this time . 
There at last they paused , where an ancient gaoler sat fingering a bunch of mighty keys . 
Oddsbodikins ! said the sergeant of police , taking off his helmet and wiping his forehead . 
Rouse thee , old loon , and take over from us this vile Toad , a criminal of deepest guilt and matchless artfulness and resource . 
VII THE PIPER AT THE GATES OF DAWN The Willow Wren was twittering his thin little song , hidden himself in the dark selvedge of the river bank . 
Mole lay stretched on the bank , still panting from the stress of the fierce day that had been cloudless from dawn to late sunset , and waited for his friend to return . 
The Rat's light footfall was presently heard approaching over the parched grass . 
O , the blessed coolness ! he said , and sat down , gazing thoughtfully into the river , silent and pre occupied . 
You stayed to supper , of course ? said the Mole presently . 
Simply had to , said the Rat . 
They wouldn't hear of my going before . 
You know how kind they always are . 
And they made things as jolly for me as ever they could , right up to the moment I left . 
But I felt a brute all the time , as it was clear to me they were very unhappy , though they tried to hide it . 
Mole , I'm afraid they're in trouble . 
Little Portly is missing again and you know what a lot his father thinks of him , though he never says much about it . 
What , that child ? said the Mole lightly . 
Well , suppose he is why worry about it ? He's always straying off and getting lost , and turning up again he's so adventurous . 
But no harm ever happens to him . 
Why , we've found him ourselves , miles from home , and quite self possessed and cheerful ! Yes but this time it's more serious , said the Rat gravely . 
He's been missing for some days now , and the Otters have hunted everywhere , high and low , without finding the slightest trace . 
And they've asked every animal , too , for miles around , and no one knows anything about him . 
Otter's evidently more anxious than he'll admit . 
I got out of him that young Portly hasn't learnt to swim very well yet , and I can see he's thinking of the weir . 
There's a lot of water coming down still , considering the time of the year , and the place always had a fascination for the child . 
And then there are well , traps and things YOU know . 
Otter's not the fellow to be nervous about any son of his before it's time . 
And now he IS nervous . 
When I left , he came out with me said he wanted some air , and talked about stretching his legs . 
But I could see it wasn't that , so I drew him out and pumped him , and got it all from him at last . 
He was going to spend the night watching by the ford . 
You know the place where the old ford used to be , in by gone days before they built the bridge ? I know it well , said the Mole . 
But why should Otter choose to watch there ? Well , it seems that it was there he gave Portly his first swimming lesson , continued the Rat . 
From that shallow , gravelly spit near the bank . 
And it was there he used to teach him fishing , and there young Portly caught his first fish , of which he was so very proud . 
Well , well , said the Rat presently , I suppose we ought to be thinking about turning in . 
But he never offered to move . 
We'll get the boat out , and paddle up stream . 
Just what I was thinking myself , said the Rat . 
They got the boat out , and the Rat took the sculls , paddling with caution . 
The line of the horizon was clear and hard against the sky , and in one particular quarter it showed black against a silvery climbing phosphorescence that grew and grew . 
Then a change began slowly to declare itself . 
The horizon became clearer , field and tree came more into sight , and somehow with a different look the mystery began to drop away from them . 
A bird piped suddenly , and was still and a light breeze sprang up and set the reeds and bulrushes rustling . 
Rat , who was in the stern of the boat , while Mole sculled , sat up suddenly and listened with a passionate intentness . 
Mole , who with gentle strokes was just keeping the boat moving while he scanned the banks with care , looked at him with curiosity . 
It's gone ! sighed the Rat , sinking back in his seat again . 
So beautiful and strange and new . 
Since it was to end so soon , I almost wish I had never heard it . 
For it has roused a longing in me that is pain , and nothing seems worth while but just to hear that sound once more and go on listening to it for ever . 
No ! There it is again ! he cried , alert once more . 
Entranced , he was silent for a long space , spellbound . 
Now it passes on and I begin to lose it , he said presently . 
The Mole , greatly wondering , obeyed . 
I hear nothing myself , he said , but the wind playing in the reeds and rushes and osiers . 
The Rat never answered , if indeed he heard . 
In silence Mole rowed steadily , and soon they came to a point where the river divided , a long backwater branching off to one side . 
With a slight movement of his head Rat , who had long dropped the rudder lines , directed the rower to take the backwater . 
The creeping tide of light gained and gained , and now they could see the colour of the flowers that gemmed the water's edge . 
Clearer and nearer still , cried the Rat joyously . 
He saw the tears on his comrade's cheeks , and bowed his head and understood . 
And the light grew steadily stronger , but no birds sang as they were wont to do at the approach of dawn and but for the heavenly music all was marvellously still . 
On either side of them , as they glided onwards , the rich meadow grass seemed that morning of a freshness and a greenness unsurpassable . 
Never had they noticed the roses so vivid , the willow herb so riotous , the meadow sweet so odorous and pervading . 
In midmost of the stream , embraced in the weir's shimmering arm spread , a small island lay anchored , fringed close with willow and silver birch and alder . 
This is the place of my song dream , the place the music played to me , whispered the Rat , as if in a trance . 
With difficulty he turned to look for his friend . 
and saw him at his side cowed , stricken , and trembling violently . 
And still there was utter silence in the populous bird haunted branches around them and still the light grew and grew . 
Perhaps he would never have dared to raise his eyes , but that , though the piping was now hushed , the call and the summons seemed still dominant and imperious . 
He might not refuse , were Death himself waiting to strike him instantly , once he had looked with mortal eye on things rightly kept hidden . 
Rat ! he found breath to whisper , shaking . 
Are you afraid ? Afraid ? murmured the Rat , his eyes shining with unutterable love . 
When they were able to look once more , the Vision had vanished , and the air was full of the carol of birds that hailed the dawn . 
For this is the last best gift that the kindly demi god is careful to bestow on those to whom he has revealed himself in their helping the gift of forgetfulness . 
Mole rubbed his eyes and stared at Rat , who was looking about him in a puzzled sort of way . 
I beg your pardon what did you say , Rat ? he asked . 
I think I was only remarking , said Rat slowly , that this was the right sort of place , and that here , if anywhere , we should find him . 
And look ! Why , there he is , the little fellow ! And with a cry of delight he ran towards the slumbering Portly . 
But Mole stood still a moment , held in thought . 
Portly woke up with a joyous squeak , and wriggled with pleasure at the sight of his father's friends , who had played with him so often in past days . 
In a moment , however , his face grew blank , and he fell to hunting round in a circle with pleading whine . 
The Mole ran quickly to comfort the little animal but Rat , lingering , looked long and doubtfully at certain hoof marks deep in the sward . 
Some great animal has been here , he murmured slowly and thoughtfully and stood musing , musing his mind strangely stirred . 
Come along , Rat ! called the Mole . 
The main river reached again , they turned the boat's head upstream , towards the point where they knew their friend was keeping his lonely vigil . 
I feel strangely tired , Rat , said the Mole , leaning wearily over his oars as the boat drifted . 
It's being up all night , you'll say , perhaps but that's nothing . 
We do as much half the nights of the week , at this time of the year . 
No I feel as if I had been through something very exciting and rather terrible , and it was just over and yet nothing particular has happened . 
Or something very surprising and splendid and beautiful , murmured the Rat , leaning back and closing his eyes . 
I feel just as you do , Mole simply dead tired , though not body tired . 
It's lucky we've got the stream with us , to take us home . 
So I was thinking , murmured the Rat , dreamful and languid . 
You hear better than I , said the Mole sadly . 
I cannot catch the words . 
Let me try and give you them , said the Rat softly , his eyes still closed . 
But what do the words mean ? asked the wondering Mole . 
That I do not know , said the Rat simply . 
I passed them on to you as they reached me . 
He looked , and understood the silence . 
With a smile of much happiness on his face , and something of a listening look still lingering there , the weary Rat was fast asleep . 
Now the gaoler had a daughter , a pleasant wench and good hearted , who assisted her father in the lighter duties of his post . 
You know how fond of animals I am . 
I'll make him eat from my hand , and sit up , and do all sorts of things . 
Her father replied that she could do what she liked with him . 
He was tired of Toad , and his sulks and his airs and his meanness . 
So that day she went on her errand of mercy , and knocked at the door of Toad's cell . 
Now , cheer up , Toad , she said , coaxingly , on entering , and sit up and dry your eyes and be a sensible animal . 
And do try and eat a bit of dinner . 
See , I've brought you some of mine , hot from the oven ! It was bubble and squeak , between two plates , and its fragrance filled the narrow cell . 
But still he wailed , and kicked with his legs , and refused to be comforted . 
The gaoler's daughter saw that the topic was doing him as much good as the tea , as indeed it was , and encouraged him to go on . 
Tell me about Toad Hall , said she . 
Toad Hall , said the Toad proudly , is an eligible self contained gentleman's residence very unique dating in part from the fourteenth century , but replete with every modern convenience . 
Five minutes from church , post office , and golf links , Suitable for Bless the animal , said the girl , laughing , I don't want to TAKE it . 
Tell me something REAL about it . 
But first wait till I fetch you some more tea and toast . 
Of course , she did not say she was fond of animals as PETS , because she had the sense to see that Toad would be extremely offended . 
One morning the girl was very thoughtful , and answered at random , and did not seem to Toad to be paying proper attention to his witty sayings and sparkling comments . 
Toad , she said presently , just listen , please . 
I have an aunt who is a washerwoman . 
There , there , said Toad , graciously and affably , never mind think no more about it . 
I have several aunts who OUGHT to be washerwomen . 
Do be quiet a minute , Toad , said the girl . 
You talk too much , that's your chief fault , and I'm trying to think , and you hurt my head . 
She takes out the washing on Monday morning , and brings it in on Friday evening . 
Now , this is what occurs to me you're very rich at least you're always telling me so and she's very poor . 
A few pounds wouldn't make any difference to you , and it would mean a lot to her . 
You're very alike in many respects particularly about the figure . 
We're NOT , said the Toad in a huff . 
I have a very elegant figure for what I am . 
So has my aunt , replied the girl , for what SHE is . 
But have it your own way . 
I suppose you want to go off in a coach and four ! Honest Toad was always ready to admit himself in the wrong . 
You are a good , kind , clever girl , he said , and I am indeed a proud and a stupid toad . 
Next evening the girl ushered her aunt into Toad's cell , bearing his week's washing pinned up in a towel . 
Toad was delighted with the suggestion . 
Now it's your turn , Toad , said the girl . 
Take off that coat and waistcoat of yours you're fat enough as it is . 
You're the very image of her , she giggled , only I'm sure you never looked half so respectable in all your life before . 
Now , good bye , Toad , and good luck . 
poor and clumsy , and the humour of the sallies entirely lacking . 
More luck ! said Toad , his spirits rising rapidly , and went off to the booking office to buy his ticket . 
But here the cotton gown , which had nobly stood by him so far , and which he had basely forgotten , intervened , and frustrated his efforts . 
Just give me that ticket , will you , and I'll send the money on to morrow ? I'm well known in these parts . 
The clerk stared at him and the rusty black bonnet a moment , and then laughed . 
I should think you were pretty well known in these parts , he said , if you've tried this game on often . 
Baffled and full of despair , he wandered blindly down the platform where the train was standing , and tears trickled down each side of his nose . 
Hullo , mother ! said the engine driver , what's the trouble ? You don't look particularly cheerful . 
O dear , O dear ! That's a bad business , indeed , said the engine driver reflectively . 
Lost your money and can't get home and got some kids , too , waiting for you , I dare say ? Any amount of 'em , sobbed Toad . 
And they'll be hungry and playing with matches and upsetting lamps , the little innocents ! and quarrelling , and going on generally . 
O dear , O dear ! Well , I'll tell you what I'll do , said the good engine driver . 
You're a washerwoman to your trade , says you . 
Very well , that's that . 
And I'm an engine driver , as you well may see , and there's no denying it's terribly dirty work . 
Uses up a power of shirts , it does , till my missus is fair tired of washing of 'em . 
If you'll wash a few shirts for me when you get home , and send 'em along , I'll give you a ride on my engine . 
It's against the Company's regulations , but we're not so very particular in these out of the way parts . 
The Toad's misery turned into rapture as he eagerly scrambled up into the cab of the engine . 
The guard waved his welcome flag , the engine driver whistled in cheerful response , and the train moved out of the station . 
By this time the moon was shining brightly , and the engine driver , steadying himself on the coal , could command a view of the line behind them for a long distance . 
They are gaining on us fast ! cried the engine driver . 
I only borrowed a motorcar while the owners were at lunch they had no need of it at the time . 
I didn't mean to steal it , really but people especially magistrates take such harsh views of thoughtless and high spirited actions . 
The engine driver looked very grave and said , I fear that you have been indeed a wicked toad , and by rights I ought to give you up to offended justice . 
But you are evidently in sore trouble and distress , so I will not desert you . 
I don't hold with motor cars , for one thing and I don't hold with being ordered about by policemen when I'm on my own engine , for another . 
And the sight of an animal in tears always makes me feel queer and softhearted . 
The engine driver , with a sigh , wiped his brow with a handful of cotton waste , and said , I'm afraid it's no good , Toad . 
You see , they are running light , and they have the better engine . 
There's just one thing left for us to do , and it's your only chance , so attend very carefully to what I tell you . 
A short way ahead of us is a long tunnel , and on the other side of that the line passes through a thick wood . 
Then I will go full speed ahead again , and they can chase me if they like , for as long as they like , and as far as they like . 
Peeping out , he saw his train get up speed again and disappear at a great pace . 
He dared not leave the shelter of the trees , so he struck into the wood , with the idea of leaving the railway as far as possible behind him . 
After so many weeks within walls , he found the wood strange and unfriendly and inclined , he thought , to make fun of him . 
Night jars , sounding their mechanical rattle , made him think that the wood was full of searching warders , closing in on him . 
Toad looked about for a stone to throw at him , but could not succeed in finding one , which vexed him more than anything . 
IX WAYFARERS ALL The Water Rat was restless , and he did not exactly know why . 
Nature's Grand Hotel has its Season , like the others . 
One gets unsettled , depressed , and inclined to be querulous . 
It was difficult to settle down to anything seriously , with all this flitting going on . 
Today , however , though they were civil enough , the field mice and harvest mice seemed preoccupied . 
Here's old Ratty ! they cried as soon as they saw him . 
Come and bear a hand , Rat , and don't stand about idle ! What sort of games are you up to ? said the Water Rat severely . 
Of course , we're early , we know that but we're only just making a start . 
O , bother STARTS , said the Rat . 
Come for a row , or a stroll along the hedges , or a picnic in the woods , or something . 
Well , I THINK not TO DAY , thank you , replied the field mouse hurriedly . 
If people would be more careful , said a field mouse rather stiffly , and look where they're going , people wouldn't hurt themselves and forget themselves . 
Mind that hold all , Rat ! You'd better sit down somewhere . 
In an hour or two we may be more free to attend to you . 
You won't be free as you call it much this side of Christmas , I can see that , retorted the Rat grumpily , as he picked his way out of the field . 
He returned somewhat despondently to his river again his faithful , steady going old river , which never packed up , flitted , or went into winter quarters . 
In the osiers which fringed the bank he spied a swallow sitting . 
Presently it was joined by another , and then by a third and the birds , fidgeting restlessly on their bough , talked together earnestly and low . 
What , ALREADY , said the Rat , strolling up to them . 
What's the hurry ? I call it simply ridiculous . 
O , we're not off yet , if that's what you mean , replied the first swallow . 
We're only making plans and arranging things . 
Talking it over , you know what route we're taking this year , and where we'll stop , and so on . 
That's half the fun ! Fun ? said the Rat now that's just what I don't understand . 
But to want to talk about it , or even think about it , till you really need No , you don't understand , naturally , said the second swallow . 
First , we feel it stirring within us , a sweet unrest then back come the recollections one by one , like homing pigeons . 
They flutter through our dreams at night , they fly with us in our wheelings and circlings by day . 
Couldn't you stop on for just this year ? suggested the Water Rat , wistfully . 
We'll all do our best to make you feel at home . 
You've no idea what good times we have here , while you are far away . 
I tried stopping on one year , said the third swallow . 
I had grown so fond of the place that when the time came I hung back and let the others go on without me . 
Ah , yes , the call of the South , of the South ! twittered the other two dreamily . 
In himself , too , he knew that it was vibrating at last , that chord hitherto dormant and unsuspected . 
Then his loyal heart seemed to cry out on his weaker self for its treachery . 
Why do you ever come back , then , at all ? he demanded of the swallows jealously . 
But to day all that seems pale and thin and very far away . 
Just now our blood dances to other music . 
They fell a twittering among themselves once more , and this time their intoxicating babble was of violet seas , tawny sands , and lizard haunted walls . 
On this side of the hills was now the real blank , on the other lay the crowded and coloured panorama that his inner eye was seeing so clearly . 
When he had rested awhile the stranger sighed , snuffed the air , and looked about him . 
That was clover , that warm whiff on the breeze , he remarked and those are cows we hear cropping the grass behind us and blowing softly between mouthfuls . 
There is a sound of distant reapers , and yonder rises a blue line of cottage smoke against the woodland . 
The river runs somewhere close by , for I hear the call of a moorhen , and I see by your build that you're a freshwater mariner . 
Everything seems asleep , and yet going on all the time . 
I did not say exactly that , replied the stranger cautiously but no doubt it's the best . 
I've tried it , and I know . 
Is this , then , yet another of them ? mused the Rat . 
And where have you just come from ? he asked . 
He hardly dared to ask where he was bound for he seemed to know the answer only too well . 
Nice little farm , replied the wayfarer , briefly . 
Upalong in that direction' he nodded northwards . 
You are not one of US , said the Water Rat , nor yet a farmer nor even , I should judge , of this country . 
Right , replied the stranger . 
I'm a seafaring rat , I am , and the port I originally hail from is Constantinople , though I'm a sort of a foreigner there too , in a manner of speaking . 
You will have heard of Constantinople , friend ? A fair city , and an ancient and glorious one . 
Seafarers we have ever been , and no wonder as for me , the city of my birth is no more my home than any pleasant port between there and the London River . 
I know them all , and they know me . 
Set me down on any of their quays or foreshores , and I am home again . 
I suppose you go great voyages , said the Water Rat with growing interest . 
Such a life as you describe would not suit me at all . 
I'm in the coasting trade , and rarely out of sight of land . 
It's the jolly times on shore that appeal to me , as much as any seafaring . 
Family troubles , as usual , began it . 
He was silent for a time and the Water Rat , silent too and enthralled , floated on dream canals and heard a phantom song pealing high between vaporous grey wave lapped walls . 
I never stick too long to one ship one gets narrow minded and prejudiced . 
Besides , Sicily is one of my happy hunting grounds . 
I know everybody there , and their ways just suit me . 
I spent many jolly weeks in the island , staying with friends up country . 
But isn't it very hot and stuffy , down in the hold , I think you call it ? asked the Water Rat . 
The seafarer looked at him with the suspicion go a wink . 
I'm an old hand , he remarked with much simplicity . 
The captain's cabin's good enough for me . 
It's a hard life , by all accounts , murmured the Rat , sunk in deep thought . 
For the crew it is , replied the seafarer gravely , again with the ghost of a wink . 
From Corsica , he went on , I made use of a ship that was taking wine to the mainland . 
We made Alassio in the evening , lay to , hauled up our wine casks , and hove them overboard , tied one to the other by a long line . 
Then the crew took to the boats and rowed shorewards , singing as they went , and drawing after them the long bobbing procession of casks , like a mile of porpoises . 
On the sands they had horses waiting , which dragged the casks up the steep street of the little town with a fine rush and clatter and scramble . 
Now I call that kind and brotherly of you , said the Sea Rat . 
I was indeed hungry when I sat down , and ever since I inadvertently happened to mention shell fish , my pangs have been extreme . 
That is indeed an excellent suggestion , said the Water Rat , and hurried off home . 
The twin lights , the shifting grey and the steadfast red , mastered the Water Rat and held him bound , fascinated , powerless . 
The quiet world outside their rays receded far away and ceased to be . 
Lastly , in his waking dream it seemed to him that the Adventurer had risen to his feet , but was still speaking , still holding him fast with his sea grey eyes . 
There through dark doorways you look down flights of stone steps , overhung by great pink tufts of valerian and ending in a patch of sparkling blue water . 
There , sooner or later , the ships of all seafaring nations arrive and there , at its destined hour , the ship of my choice will let go its anchor . 
You can easily overtake me on the road , for you are young , and I am ageing and go softly . 
Mechanically he rose and proceeded to repack the luncheon basket , carefully and without haste . 
Why , where are you off to , Ratty ? asked the Mole in great surprise , grasping him by the arm . 
Going South , with the rest of them , murmured the Rat in a dreamy monotone , never looking at him . 
The Rat struggled desperately for a few moments , and then his strength seemed suddenly to leave him , and he lay still and exhausted , with closed eyes , trembling . 
It is not surprising , then , that he failed to convey to the Mole any clear idea of what he had been through that day . 
To the Mole this much was plain the fit , or attack , had passed away , and had left him sane again , though shaken and cast down by the reaction . 
By degrees the Rat began to sit up and to join in . 
His dull eye brightened , and he lost some of his listening air . 
Presently the tactful Mole slipped away and returned with a pencil and a few half sheets of paper , which he placed on the table at his friend's elbow . 
It's quite a long time since you did any poetry , he remarked . 
You might have a try at it this evening , instead of well , brooding over things so much . 
I've an idea that you'll feel a lot better when you've got something jotted down if it's only just the rhymes . 
It is true that he sucked a good deal more than he scribbled but it was joy to the Mole to know that the cure had at least begun . 
He had the world all to himself , that early summer morning . 
Toad , however , was looking for something that could talk , and tell him clearly which way he ought to go . 
The practical Toad cared very much indeed , and he could have kicked the road for its helpless silence when every minute was of importance to him . 
Bother them ! said Toad to himself . 
But , anyhow , one thing's clear . 
They must both be coming FROM somewhere , and going TO somewhere . 
You can't get over that . 
Toad , my boy ! So he marched on patiently by the water's edge . 
Round a bend in the canal came plodding a solitary horse , stooping forward as if in anxious thought . 
From rope traces attached to his collar stretched a long line , taut , but dipping with his stride , the further part of it dripping pearly drops . 
Toad let the horse pass , and stood waiting for what the fates were sending him . 
A nice morning , ma'am ! she remarked to Toad , as she drew up level with him . 
I dare say it is , ma'am ! responded Toad politely , as he walked along the tow path abreast of her . 
I dare it IS a nice morning to them that's not in sore trouble , like what I am . 
She lives near to the river , ma'am , replied Toad . 
Close to a fine house called Toad Hall , that's somewheres hereabouts in these parts . 
Perhaps you may have heard of it . 
Toad Hall ? Why , I'm going that way myself , replied the barge woman . 
This canal joins the river some miles further on , a little above Toad Hall and then it's an easy walk . 
You come along in the barge with me , and I'll give you a lift . 
She steered the barge close to the bank , and Toad , with many humble and grateful acknowledgments , stepped lightly on board and sat down with great satisfaction . 
Toad's luck again ! thought he . 
I always come out on top ! So you're in the washing business , ma'am ? said the barge woman politely , as they glided along . 
And a very good business you've got too , I dare say , if I'm not making too free in saying so . 
Finest business in the whole country , said Toad airily . 
All the gentry come to me wouldn't go to any one else if they were paid , they know me so well . 
You see , I understand my work thoroughly , and attend to it all myself . 
O , I have girls , said Toad lightly twenty girls or thereabouts , always at work . 
But you know what GIRLS are , ma'am ! Nasty little hussies , that's what I call 'em ! So do I , too , said the barge woman with great heartiness . 
But I dare say you set yours to rights , the idle trollops ! And are you very fond of washing ? I love it , said Toad . 
I simply dote on it . 
Never so happy as when I've got both arms in the wash tub . 
A regular piece of good fortune for both of us ! Why , what do you mean ? asked Toad , nervously . 
Well , look at me , now , replied the barge woman . 
Now my husband , he's such a fellow for shirking his work and leaving the barge to me , that never a moment do I get for seeing to my own affairs . 
By rights he ought to be here now , either steering or attending to the horse , though luckily the horse has sense enough to attend to himself . 
Instead of which , he's gone off with the dog , to see if they can't pick up a rabbit for dinner somewhere . 
Says he'll catch me up at the next lock . 
Well , that's as may be I don't trust him , once he gets off with that dog , who's worse than he is . 
But meantime , how am I to get on with my washing ? O , never mind about the washing , said Toad , not liking the subject . 
Try and fix your mind on that rabbit . 
A nice fat young rabbit , I'll be bound . 
There's a heap of things of mine that you'll find in a corner of the cabin . 
You'll find a tub handy , and soap , and a kettle on the stove , and a bucket to haul up water from the canal with . 
Then I shall know you're enjoying yourself , instead of sitting here idle , looking at the scenery and yawning your head off . 
Here , you let me steer ! said Toad , now thoroughly frightened , and then you can get on with your washing your own way . 
I might spoil your things , or not do 'em as you like . 
I'm more used to gentlemen's things myself . 
Let you steer ? replied the barge woman , laughing . 
It takes some practice to steer a barge properly . 
Besides , it's dull work , and I want you to be happy . 
No , you shall do the washing you are so fond of , and I'll stick to the steering that I understand . 
Don't try and deprive me of the pleasure of giving you a treat ! Toad was fairly cornered . 
He looked for escape this way and that , saw that he was too far from the bank for a flying leap , and sullenly resigned himself to his fate . 
A long half hour passed , and every minute of it saw Toad getting crosser and crosser . 
Nothing that he could do to the things seemed to please them or do them good . 
He tried coaxing , he tried slapping , he tried punching they smiled back at him out of the tub unconverted , happy in their original sin . 
Once or twice he looked nervously over his shoulder at the barge woman , but she appeared to be gazing out in front of her , absorbed in her steering . 
His back ached badly , and he noticed with dismay that his paws were beginning to get all crinkly . 
Now Toad was very proud of his paws . 
He muttered under his breath words that should never pass the lips of either washerwomen or Toads and lost the soap , for the fiftieth time . 
A burst of laughter made him straighten himself and look round . 
The barge woman was leaning back and laughing unrestrainedly , till the tears ran down her cheeks . 
I've been watching you all the time , she gasped . 
I thought you must be a humbug all along , from the conceited way you talked . 
Why , so you are ! she cried . 
Well , I never ! A horrid , nasty , crawly Toad ! And in my nice clean barge , too ! Now that is a thing that I will NOT have . 
She relinquished the tiller for a moment . 
One big mottled arm shot out and caught Toad by a fore leg , while the other gripped him fast by a hind leg . 
The barge woman was still laughing when he drew up level with her . 
Solid revenge was what he wanted , not cheap , windy , verbal triumphs , though he had a thing or two in his mind that he would have liked to say . 
He saw what he wanted ahead of him . 
He steered for the open country , abandoning the tow path , and swinging his steed down a rutty lane . 
He looked about him and found he was on a wide common , dotted with patches of gorse and bramble as far as he could see . 
Near him stood a dingy gipsy caravan , and beside it a man was sitting on a bucket turned upside down , very busy smoking and staring into the wide world . 
Toad now knew well that he had not been really hungry before . 
What he had felt earlier in the day had been a mere trifling qualm . 
This was the real thing at last , and no mistake and it would have to be dealt with speedily , too , or there would be trouble for somebody or something . 
He looked the gipsy over carefully , wondering vaguely whether it would be easier to fight him or cajole him . 
So there he sat , and sniffed and sniffed , and looked at the gipsy and the gipsy sat and smoked , and looked at him . 
Presently the gipsy took his pipe out of his mouth and remarked in a careless way , Want to sell that there horse of yours ? Toad was completely taken aback . 
What ? he said , me sell this beautiful young horse of mine ? O , no it's out of the question . 
Who's going to take the washing home to my customers every week ? Besides , I'm too fond of him , and he simply dotes on me . 
Try and love a donkey , suggested the gipsy . 
You don't seem to see , continued Toad , that this fine horse of mine is a cut above you altogether . 
He's a blood horse , he is , partly not the part you see , of course another part . 
No , it's not to be thought of for a moment . 
Shillin' a leg , he said briefly , and turned away , continuing to smoke and try to stare the wide world out of countenance . 
A shilling a leg ? cried Toad . 
If you please , I must take a little time to work that out , and see just what it comes to . 
O , no I could not think of accepting four shillings for this beautiful young horse of mine . 
Well , said the gipsy , I'll tell you what I will do . 
I'll make it five shillings , and that's three and sixpence more than the animal's worth . 
And that's my last word . 
Then Toad sat and pondered long and deeply . 
For he was hungry and quite penniless , and still some way he knew not how far from home , and enemies might still be looking for him . 
To one in such a situation , five shillings may very well appear a large sum of money . 
On the other hand , it did not seem very much to get for a horse . 
But then , again , the horse hadn't cost him anything so whatever he got was all clear profit . 
At last he said firmly , Look here , gipsy ! I tell you what we will do and this is MY last word . 
In return , I will make over to you my spirited young horse , with all the beautiful harness and trappings that are on him , freely thrown in . 
If that's not good enough for you , say so , and I'll be getting on . 
I know a man near here who's wanted this horse of mine for years . 
The gipsy grumbled frightfully , and declared if he did a few more deals of that sort he'd be ruined . 
But in the end he lugged a dirty canvas bag out of the depths of his trouser pocket , and counted out six shillings and sixpence into Toad's paw . 
Then he disappeared into the caravan for an instant , and returned with a large iron plate and a knife , fork , and spoon . 
He tilted up the pot , and a glorious stream of hot rich stew gurgled into the plate . 
Toad took the plate on his lap , almost crying , and stuffed , and stuffed , and stuffed , and kept asking for more , and the gipsy never grudged it him . 
He thought that he had never eaten so good a breakfast in all his life . 
He was , indeed , a very different Toad from the animal of an hour ago . 
They pursue me with engines , and policemen , and revolvers I snap my fingers at them , and vanish , laughing , into space . 
I am , unfortunately , thrown into a canal by a woman fat of body and very evil minded . 
It was perhaps the most conceited song that any animal ever composed . 
But they none of them know one half as much As intelligent Mr. Toad ! The animals sat in the Ark and cried , Their tears in torrents flowed . 
Who was it said , There's land ahead ? Encouraging Mr. Toad ! The army all saluted As they marched along the road . 
Was it the King ? Or Kitchener ? No. It was Mr. Toad . 
The Queen and her Ladies in waiting Sat at the window and sewed . 
She cried , Look ! who's that HANDSOME man ? They answered , Mr. Toad . 
There was a great deal more of the same sort , but too dreadfully conceited to be written down . 
These are some of the milder verses . 
He sang as he walked , and he walked as he sang , and got more inflated every minute . 
But his pride was shortly to have a severe fall . 
This is something like ! said the excited Toad . 
Let us lift her into the car and take her to the nearest village , where doubtless she has friends . 
They tenderly lifted Toad into the motor car and propped him up with soft cushions , and proceeded on their way . 
Look ! said one of the gentlemen , she is better already . 
The fresh air is doing her good . 
Now keep quite still , and , above all , don't try to talk . 
I won't , said Toad . 
What a very sensible woman ! said the gentleman . 
So they carefully helped Toad into the front seat beside the driver , and on they went again . 
Toad was almost himself again by now . 
It is fate ! he said to himself . 
Why strive ? why struggle ? and he turned to the driver at his side . 
Please , Sir , he said , I wish you would kindly let me try and drive the car for a little . 
When he heard , he said , to Toad's delight , Bravo , ma'am ! I like your spirit . 
Let her have a try , and look after her . 
She won't do any harm . 
He heard the gentlemen call out warningly , Be careful , washerwoman ! And this annoyed him , and he began to lose his head . 
The driver tried to interfere , but he pinned him down in his seat with one elbow , and put on full speed . 
The rush of air in his face , the hum of the engines , and the light jump of the car beneath him intoxicated his weak brain . 
Washerwoman , indeed ! he shouted recklessly . 
With a half turn of the wheel the Toad sent the car crashing through the low hedge that ran along the roadside . 
One mighty bound , a violent shock , and the wheels of the car were churning up the thick mud of a horse pond . 
Toad found himself flying through the air with the strong upward rush and delicate curve of a swallow . 
On he ran desperately , but kept looking back , and saw that they still gained steadily . 
He did his best , but he was a fat animal , and his legs were short , and still they gained . 
He could hear them close behind him now . 
Then slowly and with difficulty he drew himself up out of the water , till at last he was able to rest his elbows on the edge of the hole . 
There he remained for some minutes , puffing and panting , for he was quite exhausted . 
As he sighed and blew and stared before him into the dark hole , some bright small thing shone and twinkled in its depths , moving towards him . 
As it approached , a face grew up gradually around it , and it was a familiar face ! Brown and small , with whiskers . 
Grave and round , with neat ears and silky hair . 
O , Ratty ! he cried . 
But the more he talked and boasted , the more grave and silent the Rat became . 
You know that you've never had anything but trouble from motor cars from the moment you first set eyes on one . 
And even when most set upon a thing , he was always able to see the other side of the question . 
As for motor cars , I've not been at all so keen about them since my last ducking in that river of yours . 
I've had enough of adventures . 
I shall lead a quiet , steady , respectable life , pottering about my property , and improving it , and doing a little landscape gardening at times . 
Stroll quietly down to Toad Hall ? cried the Rat , greatly excited . 
What are you talking about ? Do you mean to say you haven't HEARD ? Heard what ? said Toad , turning rather pale . 
No , not a word ! What have they been doing ? And how they've been and taken Toad Hall ? continued the Rat . 
I am an animal again . 
Well , it was a good deal talked about down here , naturally , continued the Rat , not only along the river side , but even in the Wild Wood . 
Animals took sides , as always happens . 
The River bankers stuck up for you , and said you had been infamously treated , and there was no justice to be had in the land nowadays . 
But the Wild Wood animals said hard things , and served you right , and it was time this sort of thing was stopped . 
That's the sort of little beasts they are , the Rat went on . 
But Mole and Badger , they stuck out , through thick and thin , that you would come back again soon , somehow . 
They didn't know exactly how , but somehow ! Toad began to sit up in his chair again , and to smirk a little . 
They argued from history , continued the Rat . 
They said that no criminal laws had ever been known to prevail against cheek and plausibility such as yours , combined with the power of a long purse . 
So they arranged to move their things in to Toad Hall , and sleep there , and keep it aired , and have it all ready for you when you turned up . 
They didn't guess what was going to happen , of course still , they had their suspicions of the Wild Wood animals . 
Now I come to the most painful and tragic part of my story . 
And they're telling the tradespeople and everybody that they've come to stay for good . 
O , have they ! said Toad getting up and seizing a stick . 
I'll jolly soon see about that ! It's no good , Toad ! called the Rat after him . 
You'd better come back and sit down you'll only get into trouble . 
But the Toad was off , and there was no holding him . 
Who comes there ? said the ferret sharply . 
Stuff and nonsense ! said Toad , very angrily . 
Toad prudently dropped flat in the road , and BANG ! a bullet whistled over his head . 
He went back , very crestfallen , and told the Water Rat . 
What did I tell you ? said the Rat . 
They've got sentries posted , and they are all armed . 
Still , Toad was not inclined to give in all at once . 
So he got out the boat , and set off rowing up the river to where the garden front of Toad Hall came down to the waterside . 
Arriving within sight of his old home , he rested on his oars and surveyed the land cautiously . 
All seemed very peaceful and deserted and quiet . 
He would try the boat house first , he thought . 
Very warily he paddled up to the mouth of the creek , and was just passing under the bridge , when . 
CRASH ! A great stone , dropped from above , smashed through the bottom of the boat . 
It filled and sank , and Toad found himself struggling in deep water . 
Looking up , he saw two stoats leaning over the parapet of the bridge and watching him with great glee . 
It will be your head next time , Toady ! they called out to him . 
The Toad retraced his weary way on foot , and related his disappointing experiences to the Water Rat once more . 
Well , WHAT did I tell you ? said the Rat very crossly . 
He admitted his errors and wrong headedness and made a full apology to Rat for losing his boat and spoiling his clothes . 
Oh , ah , yes , of course , the Mole and the Badger , said Toad , lightly . 
What's become of them , the dear fellows ? I had forgotten all about them . 
Well may you ask ! said the Rat reproachfully . 
You don't deserve to have such true and loyal friends , Toad , you don't , really . 
He followed him to the table accordingly , and hospitably encouraged him in his gallant efforts to make up for past privations . 
They had just finished their meal and resumed their arm chairs , when there came a heavy knock at the door . 
Toad was nervous , but the Rat , nodding mysteriously at him , went straight up to the door and opened it , and in walked Mr. Badger . 
He had all the appearance of one who for some nights had been kept away from home and all its little comforts and conveniences . 
Unhappy Toad ! Then he turned his back on him , sat down to the table , drew his chair up , and helped himself to a large slice of cold pie . 
He's always rather low and despondent when he's wanting his victuals . 
In half an hour's time he'll be quite a different animal . 
So they waited in silence , and presently there came another and a lighter knock . 
Hooray ! Here's old Toad ! cried the Mole , his face beaming . 
Fancy having you back again ! And he began to dance round him . 
Toad was puffing and swelling already . 
Clever ? O , no ! he said . 
I'm not really clever , according to my friends . 
Not a bite since breakfast ! O my ! O my ! And he sat down and helped himself liberally to cold beef and pickles . 
Toad straddled on the hearth rug , thrust his paw into his trouser pocket and pulled out a handful of silver . 
Look at that ! he cried , displaying it . 
Toad , do be quiet , please ! said the Rat . 
But I think I see now , in the depths of my mind , what Toad really ought to do . 
He ought to No , he oughtn't ! shouted the Mole , with his mouth full . 
Nothing of the sort ! You don't understand . 
What he ought to do is , he ought to Well , I shan't do it , anyway ! cried Toad , getting excited . 
I'm not going to be ordered about by you fellows ! It's my house we're talking about , and I know exactly what to do , and I'll tell you . 
It was the Badger , who , having finished his pie , had turned round in his chair and was looking at them severely . 
The Toad fidgeted a good deal , but the Rat held him firmly down . 
When the Badger had quite done , he got up from his seat and stood before the fireplace , reflecting deeply . 
Toad ! he said severely . 
There , there ! went on the Badger , more kindly . 
We're going to let bygones be bygones , and try and turn over a new leaf . 
But what the Mole says is quite true . 
The stoats are on guard , at every point , and they make the best sentinels in the world . 
It's quite useless to think of attacking the place . 
They're too strong for us . 
Then it's all over , sobbed the Toad , crying into the sofa cushions . 
I shall go and enlist for a soldier , and never see my dear Toad Hall any more ! Come , cheer up , Toady ! said the Badger . 
There are more ways of getting back a place than taking it by storm . 
I haven't said my last word yet . 
Now I'm going to tell you a great secret . 
Toad sat up slowly and dried his eyes . 
There is an underground passage , said the Badger , impressively , that leads from the river bank , quite near here , right up into the middle of Toad Hall . 
O , nonsense ! Badger , said Toad , rather airily . 
You've been listening to some of the yarns they spin in the public houses about here . 
I know every inch of Toad Hall , inside and out . 
Don't let my son know about it , he said . 
He's a good boy , but very light and volatile in character , and simply cannot hold his tongue . 
If he's ever in a real fix , and it would be of use to him , you may tell him about the secret passage but not before . 
The other animals looked hard at Toad to see how he would take it . 
Toad was inclined to be sulky at first but he brightened up immediately , like the good fellow he was . 
Well , well , he said perhaps I am a bit of a talker . 
A popular fellow such as I am my friends get round me we chaff , we sparkle , we tell witty stories and somehow my tongue gets wagging . 
I have the gift of conversation . 
I've been told I ought to have a salon , whatever that may be . 
How's this passage of yours going to help us ? I've found out a thing or two lately , continued the Badger . 
I got Otter to disguise himself as a sweep and call at the back door with brushes over his shoulder , asking for a job . 
There's going to be a big banquet to morrow night . 
It's somebody's birthday the Chief Weasel's , I believe and all the weasels will be gathered together in the dining hall , eating and drinking and laughing and carrying on , suspecting nothing . 
No guns , no swords , no sticks , no arms of any sort whatever ! But the sentinels will be posted as usual , remarked the Rat . 
Exactly , said the Badger that is my point . 
The weasels will trust entirely to their excellent sentinels . 
And that is where the passage comes in . 
That very useful tunnel leads right up under the butler's pantry , next to the dining hall ! Aha ! that squeaky board in the butler's pantry ! said Toad . 
Now I understand it ! We shall creep out quietly into the butler's pantry cried the Mole . 
with our pistols and swords and sticks shouted the Rat . 
and rush in upon them , said the Badger . 
So , as it's getting very late , all of you go right off to bed at once . 
We will make all the necessary arrangements in the course of the morning to morrow . 
Toad , of course , went off to bed dutifully with the rest he knew better than to refuse though he was feeling much too excited to sleep . 
He slept till a late hour next morning , and by the time he got down he found that the other animals had finished their breakfast some time before . 
The Mole had slipped off somewhere by himself , without telling any one where he was going to . 
The Badger sat in the arm chair , reading the paper , and not concerning himself in the slightest about what was going to happen that very evening . 
That's all very well , Rat , said the Badger presently , looking at the busy little animal over the edge of his newspaper I'm not blaming you . 
But just let us once get past the stoats , with those detestable guns of theirs , and I assure you we shan't want any swords or pistols . 
We four , with our sticks , once we're inside the dining hall , why , we shall clear the floor of all the lot of them in five minutes . 
The Toad , having finished his breakfast , picked up a stout stick and swung it vigorously , belabouring imaginary animals . 
I'll learn 'em to steal my house ! he cried . 
I'll learn 'em , I'll learn 'em ! Don't say learn 'em , Toad , said the Rat , greatly shocked . 
What are you always nagging at Toad for ? inquired the Badger , rather peevishly . 
Only I THINK it ought to be teach 'em , not learn 'em . 
But we don't WANT to teach 'em , replied the Badger . 
Presently the Mole came tumbling into the room , evidently very pleased with himself . 
I've been having such fun ! he began at once I've been getting a rise out of the stoats ! I hope you've been very careful , Mole ? said the Rat anxiously . 
I should hope so , too , said the Mole confidently . 
I got the idea when I went into the kitchen , to see about Toad's breakfast being kept hot for him . 
I found that old washerwoman dress that he came home in yesterday , hanging on a towel horse before the fire . 
So I put it on , and the bonnet as well , and the shawl , and off I went to Toad Hall , as bold as you please . 
The sentries were on the look out , of course , with their guns and their Who comes there ? and all the rest of their nonsense . 
Good morning , gentlemen ! says I , very respectful . 
Want any washing done to day ? They looked at me very proud and stiff and haughty , and said , Go away , washerwoman ! We don't do any washing on duty . 
Or any other time ? says I. Ho , ho , ho ! Wasn't I FUNNY , Toad ? Poor , frivolous animal ! said Toad , very loftily . 
The fact is , he felt exceedingly jealous of Mole for what he had just done . 
It was exactly what he would have liked to have done himself , if only he had thought of it first , and hadn't gone and overslept himself . 
The Badger laid down his paper . 
O ! don't I ? said I. Well , let me tell you this . 
You have managed excellently , and I begin to have great hopes of you . 
And he drew a handkerchief over his face and was soon snoring . 
The Mole was a good listener , and Toad , with no one to check his statements or to criticise in an unfriendly spirit , rather let himself go . 
Indeed , much that he related belonged more properly to the category of what might have happened had I only thought of it in time instead of ten minutes afterwards . 
He was very earnest and thoroughgoing about it , and the affair took quite a long time . 
Then a pair of pistols , a policeman's truncheon , several sets of handcuffs , some bandages and sticking plaster , and a flask and a sandwich case . 
The Badger laughed good humouredly and said , All right , Ratty ! It amuses you and it doesn't hurt me . 
I'm going to do all I've got to do with this here stick . 
But the Rat only said , PLEASE , Badger . 
The lantern was far ahead , and he could not help lagging behind a little in the darkness . 
Ooo ray ooray oo ray ooray ! they heard , and the stamping of little feet on the floor , and the clinking of glasses as little fists pounded on the table . 
WHAT a time they're having ! said the Badger . 
Come on ! They hurried along the passage till it came to a full stop , and they found themselves standing under the trap door that led up into the butler's pantry . 
Such a tremendous noise was going on in the banqueting hall that there was little danger of their being overheard . 
The Badger said , Now , boys , all together ! and the four of them put their shoulders to the trap door and heaved it back . 
Hoisting each other up , they found themselves standing in the pantry , with only a door between them and the banqueting hall , where their unconscious enemies were carousing . 
The noise , as they emerged from the passage , was simply deafening . 
I should like to say one word about our kind host , Mr. Toad . 
GOOD Toad , MODEST Toad , HONEST Toad ! . 
Only just let me get at him ! muttered Toad , grinding his teeth . 
Hold hard a minute ! said the Badger , restraining him with difficulty . 
Get ready , all of you ! Let me sing you a little song , went on the voice , which I have composed on the subject of Toad' . 
I'LL pleasure 'em ! and he went straight for the Chief Weasel . 
The affair was soon over . 
The Badger , resting from his labours , leant on his stick and wiped his honest brow . 
Mole , he said , you're the best of fellows ! Just cut along outside and look after those stoat sentries of yours , and see what they're doing . 
I want some grub , I do , he said , in that rather common way he had of speaking . 
Stir your stumps , Toad , and look lively ! We've got your house back for you , and you don't offer us so much as a sandwich . 
They were just about to sit down when the Mole clambered in through the window , chuckling , with an armful of rifles . 
It's all over , he reported . 
So that's all right ! Excellent and deserving animal ! said the Badger , his mouth full of chicken and trifle . 
I'd send Rat , if he wasn't a poet . 
I want you to take those fellows on the floor there upstairs with you , and have some bedrooms cleaned out and tidied up and made really comfortable . 
And then come along and have some of this cold tongue . 
After a time , he appeared again , smiling , and said that every room was ready , and as clean as a new pin . 
And I didn't have to lick them , either , he added . 
They were very penitent , and said they were extremely sorry for what they had done . 
The Badger , who was in an arm chair and deep in the morning paper , merely looked up and nodded when Toad entered the room . 
But Toad knew his man , so he sat down and made the best breakfast he could , merely observing to himself that he would get square with the others sooner or later . 
When he had nearly finished , the Badger looked up and remarked rather shortly I'm sorry , Toad , but I'm afraid there's a heavy morning's work in front of you . 
You see , we really ought to have a Banquet at once , to celebrate this affair . 
It's expected of you in fact , it's the rule . 
O , all right ! said the Toad , readily . 
Though why on earth you should want to have a Banquet in the morning I cannot understand . 
And I'LL bear a hand , too and take my share of the burden . 
What ! cried Toad , dismayed . 
Go , Badger , order the Banquet , order what you like then join our young friends outside in their innocent mirth , oblivious of me and my cares and toils . 
He quitted the room , accordingly , in the direction of the kitchen , and as soon as the door had closed behind him , Toad hurried to the writing table . 
A fine idea had occurred to him while he was talking . 
BY TOAD SYNOPSIS Our Prison System the Waterways of Old England Horse dealing , and how to deal Property , its rights and its duties Back to the Land A Typical English Squire . 
BY TOAD will be sung in the course of the evening by the . 
Toad swaggered out and found it was one of the prisoners of the previous evening , very respectful and anxious to please . 
Instead , he was so uppish and inflated that the Mole began to suspect something while the Rat and the Badger exchanged significant glances . 
The two animals conducted him between them into the small smoking room that opened out of the entrance hall , shut the door , and put him into a chair . 
Then they both stood in front of him , while Toad sat silent and regarded them with much suspicion and ill humour . 
Now , look here , Toad , said the Rat . 
It's about this Banquet , and very sorry I am to have to speak to you like this . 
But we want you to understand clearly , once and for all , that there are going to be no speeches and no songs . 
Try and grasp the fact that on this occasion we're not arguing with you we're just telling you . 
Toad saw that he was trapped . 
They understood him , they saw through him , they had got ahead of him . 
His pleasant dream was shattered . 
Mayn't I sing them just one LITTLE song ? he pleaded piteously . 
No , not ONE little song , replied the Rat firmly , though his heart bled as he noticed the trembling lip of the poor disappointed Toad . 
It's for your own good , Toady , went on the Rat . 
You know you MUST turn over a new leaf sooner or later , and now seems a splendid time to begin a sort of turning point in your career . 
Please don't think that saying all this doesn't hurt me more than it hurts you . 
Toad remained a long while plunged in thought . 
At last he raised his head , and the traces of strong emotion were visible on his features . 
You have conquered , my friends , he said in broken accents . 
However , you are right , I know , and I am wrong . 
Hence forth I will be a very different Toad . 
My friends , you shall never have occasion to blush for me again . 
But , O dear , O dear , this is a hard world ! And , pressing his handkerchief to his face , he left the room , with faltering footsteps . 
Badger , said the Rat , I feel like a brute I wonder what YOU feel like ? O , I know , I know , said the Badger gloomily . 
But the thing had to be done . 
This good fellow has got to live here , and hold his own , and be respected . 
Would you have him a common laughing stock , mocked and jeered at by stoats and weasels ? Of course not , said the Rat . 
And , talking of weasels , it's lucky we came upon that little weasel , just as he was setting out with Toad's invitations . 
I suspected something from what you told me , and had a look at one or two they were simply disgraceful . 
I confiscated the lot , and the good Mole is now sitting in the blue boudoir , filling up plain , simple invitation cards . 
His brow resting on his paw , he pondered long and deeply . 
Gradually his countenance cleared , and he began to smile long , slow smiles . 
Then he took to giggling in a shy , self conscious manner . 
Then he heaved a deep sigh a long , long , long sigh . 
The Badger had ordered everything of the best , and the banquet was a great success . 
The amount involved , it was true , was not very burdensome , the gipsy's valuation being admitted by local assessors to be approximately correct . 
This was a base libel on Badger , who , though he cared little about Society , was rather fond of children but it never failed to have its full effect . 
