This text is in the PUBLIC DOMAIN . 
Electronic Edition by dell wiretap . 
PREFACE THE ungentle laws and customs touched upon in this tale are historical , and the episodes which are used to illustrate them are also historical . 
One is quite justified in inferring that whatever one of these laws or customs was lacking in that remote time , its place was competently filled by a worse one . 
The question as to whether there is such a thing as divine right of kings is not settled in this book . 
It was found too difficult . 
, and then go into training and settle the question in another book . 
It is , of course , a thing which ought to be settled , and I am not going to have anything particular to do next winter anyway . 
A CONNECTICUT YANKEE IN KING ARTHUR'S COURT A WORD OF EXPLANATION IT was in Warwick Castle that I came across the curious stranger whom I am going to talk about . 
He attracted me by three things his candid simplicity , his marvelous familiarity with ancient armor , and the restfulness of his company for he did all the talking . 
We fell together , as modest people will , in the tail of the herd that was being shown through , and he at once began to say things which interested me . 
He was so little inter ested just as when people speak of the weather that he did not notice whether I made him any answer or not . 
Then , after a pause , added I did it myself . 
By the time I had recovered from the electric sur prise of this remark , he was gone . 
Sir Launcelot put his shield afore him , and put the stroke away of the one giant , and with his sword he clave his head asunder . 
Then Sir Launcelot went into the hall , and there came afore him three score ladies and damsels , and all kneeled unto him , and thanked God and him of their deliverance . 
Fair damsels , he said , my name is Sir Launcelot du Lake . 
And so he departed from them and betaught them unto God . 
And then he mounted upon his horse , and rode into many strange and wild countries , and through many waters and valleys , and evil was he lodged . 
And when time was , his host brought him into a fair garret over the gate to his bed . 
There Sir Launcelot unarmed him , and set his harness by him , and went to bed , and anon he fell on sleep . 
So , soon after there came one on horseback , and knocked at the gate in great haste . 
Then Sir Kay dressed him for to have holpen Sir Launcelot . 
Nay , sir , said he , I will none of your help , therefore as ye will have my help let me alone with them . 
Sir Kay for the pleasure of the knight suffered him for to do his will , and so stood aside . 
And then anon within six strokes Sir Launcelot had stricken them to the earth . 
And then they all three cried , Sir Knight , we yield us unto you as man of might matchless . 
Fair knight , then they said , in saving our lives we will do as thou commandest us . 
Then soon after arose Sir Kay and missed Sir Launcelot and then he espied that he had his armor and his horse . 
And then soon after departed Sir Kay , and thanked his host . 
As I laid the book down there was a knock at the door , and my stranger came in . 
I gave him a pipe and a chair , and made him welcome . 
I also comforted him with a hot Scotch whisky gave him another one then still another hoping always for his story . 
After a fourth persuader , he drifted into it himself , in a quite simple and natural way THE STRANGER'S HISTORY I am an American . 
I was born and reared in Hart ford , in the State of Connecticut anyway , just over the river , in the country . 
So I am a Yankee of the Yankees and practical yes , and nearly barren of sentiment , I suppose or poetry , in other words . 
My father was a blacksmith , my uncle was a horse doctor , and I was both , along at first . 
I became head superintendent had a couple of thou sand men under me . 
Well , a man like that is a man that is full of fight that goes without saying . 
With a couple of thousand rough men under one , one has plenty of that sort of amusement . 
At last I met my match , and I got my dose . 
It was during a misunderstanding conducted with crowbars with a fellow we used to call Hercules . 
He laid me out with a crusher alongside the head that made everything crack , and seemed to spring every joint in my skull and made it overlap its neighbor . 
Then the world went out in darkness , and I didn't feel anything more , and didn't know anything at all at least for a while . 
When I came to again , I was sitting under an oak tree , on the grass , with a whole beautiful and broad country landscape all to myself nearly . 
Not en tirely for there was a fellow on a horse , looking down at me a fellow fresh out of a picture book . 
Fair sir , will ye just ? said this fellow . 
Will I which ? Will ye try a passage of arms for land or lady or for What are you giving me ? I said . 
Get along back to your circus , or I'll report you . 
I saw he meant business , so I was up the tree when he arrived . 
He allowed that I was his property , the captive of his spear . 
There was argument on his side and the bulk of the advantage so I judged it best to humor him . 
We fixed up an agreement whereby I was to go with him and he was not to hurt me . 
I came down , and we started away , I walking by the side of his horse . 
So I gave up the idea of a circus , and con cluded he was from an asylum . 
But we never came to an asylum so I was up a stump , as you may say . 
I asked him how far we were from Hartford . 
He said he had never heard of the place which I took to be a lie , but allowed it to go at that . 
Bridgeport ? said I , pointing . 
My stranger had been showing signs of sleepiness . 
In his chamber , he said First , I kept a journal then by and by , after years , I took the journal and turned it into a book . 
How long ago that was ! He handed me his manuscript , and pointed out the place where I should begin Begin here I've already told you what goes be fore . 
He was steeped in drowsiness by this time . 
As I went out at his door I heard him murmur sleep ily Give you good den , fair sir . 
I sat down by my fire and examined my treasure . 
The first part of it the great bulk of it was parch ment , and yellow with age . 
I scanned a leaf particu larly and saw that it was a palimpsest . 
Under the old dim writing of the Yankee historian appeared traces of a penmanship which was older and dimmer still Latin words and sentences fragments from old monk ish legends , evidently . 
I turned to the place indicated by my stranger and began to read as follows THE TALE OF THE LOST LAND . 
CHAPTER I. CAMELOT CAMELOT Camelot , said I to myself . 
I don't seem to remember hearing of it before . 
Name of the asylum , likely . 
It was a soft , reposeful summer landscape , as lovely as a dream , and as lonesome as Sunday . 
Presently a fair slip of a girl , about ten years old , with a cataract of golden hair streaming down over her shoulders , came along . 
Around her head she wore a hoop of flame red poppies . 
It was as sweet an outfit as ever I saw , what there was of it . 
She walked indo lently along , with a mind at rest , its peace reflected in her innocent face . 
The circus man paid no attention to her didn't even seem to see her . 
And she she was no more startled at his fantastic make up than if she was used to his like every day of her life . 
And there she stood gazing , in a sort of stupefied fascination , till we turned a corner of the wood and were lost to her view . 
That she should be startled at me instead of at the other man , was too many for me I couldn't make head or tail of it . 
There was food for thought here . 
I moved along as one in a dream . 
As we approached the town , signs of life began to appear . 
At intervals we passed a wretched cabin , with a thatched roof , and about it small fields and garden patches in an indifferent state of cultivation . 
There were people , too brawny men , with long , coarse , un combed hair that hung down over their faces and made them look like animals . 
The small boys and girls were always naked but nobody seemed to know it . 
Followed through one winding alley and then another , and climbing , always climbing till at last we gained the breezy height where the huge castle stood . 
I moved away , cogitating , and at the same time keeping an eye out for any chance passenger in his right mind that might come along and give me some light . 
Let you WHAT ? HINDER me , then , if the word please thee better . 
As he started away he pointed and said yonder was one who was idle enough for my purpose , and was seeking me besides , no doubt . 
By his look , he was good natured by his gait , he was satisfied with himself . 
He was pretty enough to frame . 
He arrived , looked me over with a smiling and impudent curiosity said he had come for me , and informed me that he was a page . 
Go 'long , I said you ain't more than a para graph . 
It was pretty severe , but I was nettled . 
However , it never phazed him he didn't appear to know he was hurt . 
It made the cold chills creep over me ! I stopped and said , a little faintly Maybe I didn't hear you just right . 
Say it again and say it slow . 
What year was it ? . 
! You don't look it ! Come , my boy , I am a stranger and friendless be honest and honorable with me . 
Are you in your right mind ? He said he was . 
Are these other people in their right minds ? He said they were . 
And this isn't an asylum ? I mean , it isn't a place where they cure crazy people ? He said it wasn't . 
Well , then , I said , either I am a lunatic , or something just as awful has happened . 
Now tell me , honest and true , where am I ? IN KING ARTHUR'S COURT . 
I waited a minute , to let that idea shudder its way home , and then said And according to your notions , what year is it now ? nineteenth of June . 
I felt a mournful sinking at the heart , and muttered I shall never see my friends again never , never again . 
They will not be born for more than thirteen hundred years yet . 
I seemed to believe the boy , I didn't know why . 
SOMETHING in me seemed to believe him my con sciousness , as you may say but my reason didn't . 
My reason straightway began to clamor that was natural . 
I didn't know how to go about satisfying it , because I knew that the testimony of men wouldn't serve my reason would say they were lunatics , and throw out their evidence . 
But all of a sudden I stum bled on the very thing , just by luck . 
I also knew that no total eclipse of the sun was due in what to ME was the present year i . 
One thing at a time , is my motto and just play that thing for all it is worth , even if it's only two pair and a jack . 
Very good go on , tell me everything . 
I saw that the last chance had the best show , but I didn't waste any bother about that time was too precious . 
Well , it was a curious kind of spectacle , and interest ing . 
It was an immense place , and rather naked yes , and full of loud contrasts . 
The floor was of big stone flags laid in black and white squares , rather battered by age and use , and needing repair . 
There was a fireplace big enough to camp in and its projecting sides and hood , of carved and pillared stonework , had the look of a cathedral door . 
Along the walls stood men at arms , in breastplate and morion , with halberds for their only weapon rigid as statues and that is what they looked like . 
In the middle of this groined and vaulted public square was an oaken table which they called the Table Round . 
It was as large as a circus ring and around it sat a great company of men dressed in such various and splendid colors that it hurt one's eyes to look at them . 
Mainly they were drinking from entire ox horns but a few were still munching bread or gnawing beef bones . 
It was hard to associate them with anything cruel or dreadful and yet they dealt in tales of blood and suffering with a guileless relish that made me almost forget to shudder . 
I was not the only prisoner present . 
There were twenty or more . 
Yet there was some thing very engaging about these great simple hearted creatures , something attractive and lovable . 
There was a fine manliness observable in almost every face and in some a certain loftiness and sweetness that rebuked your belittling criticisms and stilled them . 
There was presently an incident which centered the general interest upon this Sir Launcelot . 
But he was equal to the occasion . 
He got up and played his hand like a major and took every trick . 
Ah , he fetched them it was a rattling good stroke . 
I looked at the boy in sorrow and as I looked I saw the cloud of a deep despondency settle upon his counte nance . 
The same suffering look that was in the page's face was observable in all the faces around the look of dumb creatures who know that they must endure and make no moan . 
The boy nestled himself upon my shoulder and pre tended to go to sleep . 
The droning voice droned on a soft snoring arose on all sides and supported it like a deep and subdued accompaniment of wind instruments . 
It was a tranquil scene , and restful to the weary eye and the jaded spirit . 
This was the old man's tale . 
He said Right so the king and Merlin departed , and went until an hermit that was a good man and a great leech . 
And as they rode , Arthur said , I have no sword . 
No force , said Merlin , hereby is a from M. T. No matter . 
sword that shall be yours and I may . 
Lo , said Merlin , yonder is that sword that I spake of . 
With that they saw a damsel going upon the lake . 
What damsel is that ? said Arthur . 
Anon withal came the damsel unto Arthur and saluted him , and he her again . 
Damsel , said Arthur , what sword is that , that yonder the arm holdeth above the water ? I would it were mine , for I have no sword . 
Sir Arthur King , said the damsel , that sword is mine , and if ye will give me a gift when I ask it you , ye shall have it . 
By my faith , said Arthur , I will give you what gift ye will ask . 
And the arm and the hand went under the water and so they came unto the land and rode forth . 
And then Sir Arthur saw a rich pavilion . 
That is well said , said Arthur , now have I a sword , now will I wage battle with him , and be avenged on him . 
Also ye shall see that day in short space ye shall be right glad to give him your sister to wed . 
When I see him , I will do as ye advise me , said Arthur . 
Then Sir Arthur looked on the sword , and liked it passing well . 
Whether liketh you better , said Merlin , the sword or the scabbard ? Me liketh better the sword , said Arthur . 
I marvel , said Arthur , that the knight would not speak . 
Sir , said Merlin , he saw you not for and he had seen you ye had not lightly de parted . 
So they came unto Carlion , whereof his knights were passing glad . 
And when they heard of his adventures they marveled that he would jeopard his person so alone . 
But all men of worship said it was merry to be under such a chieftain that would put his person in adventure as other poor knights did . 
Sir Dinadan the Humorist was the first to awake , and he soon roused the rest with a practical joke of a suffi ciently poor quality . 
It was just like so many children . 
He was so set up that he concluded to make a speech of course a humorous speech . 
I think I never heard so many old played out jokes strung together in my life . 
He was worse than the minstrels , worse than the clown in the circus . 
It about convinced me that there isn't any such thing as a new joke possible . 
Everybody laughed at these antiquities but then they always do I had noticed that , centuries later . 
However , of course the scoffer didn't laugh I mean the boy . 
No , he scoffed there wasn't anything he wouldn't scoff at . 
He said the most of Sir Dinadan's jokes were rotten and the rest were petrified . 
I said petrified was good as I be lieved , myself , that the only right way to classify the majestic ages of some of those jokes was by geologic periods . 
But that neat idea hit the boy in a blank place , for geology hadn't been invented yet . 
However , I made a note of the remark , and calculated to educate the commonwealth up to it if I pulled through . 
It is no use to throw a good thing away merely because the market isn't ripe yet . 
Now Sir Kay arose and began to fire up on his his tory mill with me for fuel . 
It was time for me to feel serious , and I did . 
He ended by condemning me to die at noon on the st and was so little concerned about it that he stopped to yawn before he named the date . 
And yet it was nothing but an ordinary suit of fifteen dollar slop shops . 
Indelicacy is too mild a term to convey the idea . 
However , to the uncon sciously indelicate all things are delicate . 
King Ar thur's people were not aware that they were indecent and I had presence of mind enough not to mention it . 
They were so troubled about my enchanted clothes that they were mightily relieved , at last , when old Merlin swept the difficulty away for them with a com mon sense hint . 
He asked them why they were so dull why didn't it occur to them to strip me . 
In half a minute I was as naked as a pair of tongs ! And dear , dear , to think of it I was the only embarrassed person there . 
Everybody discussed me and did it as uncon cernedly as if I had been a cabbage . 
Queen Guenever was as naively interested as the rest , and said she had never seen anybody with legs just like mine before . 
It was the only compliment I got if it was a compliment . 
Finally I was carried off in one direction , and my perilous clothes in another . 
CHAPTER V. AN INSPIRATION I WAS so tired that even my fears were not able to keep me awake long . 
When I next came to myself , I seemed to have been asleep a very long time . 
My first thought was , Well , what an astonishing dream I've had ! I reckon I've waked only just in time to keep from being hanged or drowned or burned or something . 
I'll nap again till the whistle blows , and then I'll go down to the arms factory and have it out with Hercules . 
All right , I said resignedly , let the dream go on I'm in no hurry . 
Oh , la , indeed ! and is it a dream that you're to be burned to morrow ? Ho ho answer me that ! The shock that went through me was distressing . 
No doubt , no doubt . 
But how many , Clarence ? Not many , I hope ? Full a score . 
One may not hope to escape . 
After a pause hesitatingly and there be other rea sons and weightier . 
Oh , beware ! These are awful words ! Any moment these walls may crumble upon us if you say such things . 
Oh call them back before it is too late ! Now this strange exhibition gave me a good idea and set me to thinking . 
I went on thinking , and worked out a plan . 
Then I said Get up . 
Pull yourself together look me in the eye . 
Do you know why I laughed ? No but for our blessed Lady's sake , do it no more . 
Well , I'll tell you why I laughed . 
Because I'm a magician myself . 
Thou ! The boy recoiled a step , and caught his breath , for the thing hit him rather sudden but the aspect which he took on was very , very respectful . 
I took quick note of that it indicated that a humbug didn't need to have a reputation in this asylum people stood ready to take him at his word , without that . 
I've know Merlin seven hundred years , and he Seven hun Don't interrupt me . 
He don't amount to shucks , as a magician knows some of the old common tricks , but has never got beyond the rudiments , and never will . 
Now look here , Clarence , I am going to stand your friend , right along , and in re turn you must be mine . 
I want you to do me a favor . 
Will you get that to the king for me ? The poor boy was in such a state that he could hardly answer me . 
It was pitiful to see a creature so terrified , so unnerved , so demoralized . 
Then he worked his way out , staying himself with his hand along the wall , like a sick person . 
I worried over that heedless blunder for an hour , and called myself a great many hard names , meantime . 
I was at rest , then . 
But as soon as one is at rest , in this world , off he goes on something else to worry about . 
What shall I do ? what can I say , to gain a little time ? I was in trouble again in the deepest kind of trouble . 
There's a footstep ! they're coming . 
If I had only just a moment to think . 
Good , I've got it . 
You see , it was the eclipse . 
I could play it myself , now , and it wouldn't be any plagiarism , either , because I should get it in nearly a thousand years ahead of those parties . 
Clarence came in , subdued , distressed , and said I hasted the message to our liege the king , and straightway he had me to his presence . 
They disputed long , but in the end , Merlin , scoffing , said , 'Wherefore hath he not NAMED his brave calamity ? Verily it is because he can not . 
Oh , prithee delay not to delay at such a time were to double and treble the perils that already compass thee about . 
No ! Then I have slept well , sure enough . 
Nine in the morning now ! And yet it is the very complex ion of midnight , to a shade . 
This is the th , then ? The th yes . 
And I am to be burned alive to morrow . 
At what hour ? At high noon . 
Now then , I will tell you what to say . 
I handed him over to the soldiers , and went back . 
THE ECLIPSE IN the stillness and the darkness , realization soon began to supplement knowledge . 
The mere knowl edge of a fact is pale but when you come to REALIZE your fact , it takes on color . 
It is all the difference be tween hearing of a man being stabbed to the heart , and seeing it done . 
Hope springs up , and cheerfulness along with it , and then he is in good shape to do something for himself , if anything can be done . 
When my rally came , it came with a bound . 
I was as happy a man as there was in the world . 
I was even impatient for to morrow to come , I so wanted to gather in that great triumph and be the center of all the nation's wonder and reverence . 
Besides , in a business way it would be the making of me I knew that . 
Meantime there was one thing which had got pushed into the background of my mind . 
That was the half conviction that when the nature of my proposed calamity should be reported to those superstitious people , it would have such an effect that they would want to compromise . 
So , by and by when I heard footsteps coming , that thought was recalled to me , and I said to myself , As sure as anything , it's the com promise . 
Well , if it is good , all right , I will accept but if it isn't , I mean to stand my ground and play my hand for all it is worth . 
The door opened , and some men at arms appeared . 
The leader said The stake is ready . 
Come ! The stake ! The strength went out of me , and I almost fell down . 
Order changed been set forward a day . 
Haste thee ! I was lost . 
There was no help for me . 
On all four sides of the court the seated multitudes rose rank above rank , forming sloping terraces that were rich with color . 
The king and the queen sat in their thrones , the most conspicuous figures there , of course . 
To note all this , occupied but a second . 
The next second Clarence had slipped from some place of con cealment and was pouring news into my ear , his eyes beaming with triumph and gladness . 
He said 'Tis through ME the change was wrought ! And main hard have I worked to do it , too . 
For MY sake , thy true friend . 
There was not a movement perceptible in those masses of humanity they were as rigid as stone images , and as pale and dread sat upon every countenance . 
I waited two or three moments then looked up he was standing there petrified . 
With a common impulse the multitude rose slowly up and stared into the sky . 
I knew that this gaze would be turned upon me , next . 
When it was , l was ready . 
I was in one of the most grand attitudes I ever struck , with my arm stretched up pointing to the sun . 
It was a noble effect . 
You could SEE the shudder sweep the mass like a wave . 
Two shouts rang out , one close upon the heels of the other Apply the torch ! I forbid it ! The one was from Merlin , the other from the king . 
Merlin started from his place to apply the torch himself , I judged . 
I said Stay where you are . 
Merlin hesitated a moment or two , and I was on pins and needles during that little while . 
Then he sat down , and I took a good breath for I knew I was master of the situation now . 
The king said Be merciful , fair sir , and essay no further in this perilous matter , lest disaster follow . 
The king was eager to comply . 
He said Name any terms , reverend sir , even to the halving of my kingdom but banish this calamity , spare the sun ! My fortune was made . 
I would have taken him up in a minute , but I couldn't stop an eclipse the thing was out of the question . 
So I asked time to consider . 
The king said How long ah , how long , good sir ? Be merci ful look , it groweth darker , moment by moment . 
Prithee how long ? Not long . 
Half an hour maybe an hour . 
There were a thousand pathetic protests , but I couldn't shorten up any , for I couldn't remember how long a total eclipse lasts . 
I was in a puzzled con dition , anyway , and wanted to think . 
Something was wrong about that eclipse , and the fact was very un settling . 
If the boy was right about the date , and this was surely the th , it WASN'T the sixth century . 
I reached for the monk's sleeve , in considerable excitement , and asked him what day of the month it was . 
Hang him , he said it was the TWENTY FIRST ! It made me turn cold to hear him . 
I begged him not to make any mistake about it but he was sure he knew it was the st . 
Yes , I was in King Arthur's court , and I might as well make the most out of it I could . 
The darkness was steadily growing , the people be coming more and more distressed . 
I now said I have reflected , Sir King . 
of such actual increase of revenue over and above its present amount as I may succeed in creating for the state . 
If I can't live on that , I sha'n't ask anybody to give me a lift . 
If I might ask that my clothes be brought again They are not meet , the king broke in . 
Fetch raiment of another sort clothe him like a prince ! My idea worked . 
Sending for the clothes gained some delay , but not enough . 
So I had to make another excuse . 
Neither the king nor anybody else was satisfied with that arrangement , but I had to stick to my point . 
It grew darker and darker and blacker and blacker , while I struggled with those awkward sixth century clothes . 
At last the eclipse was total , and I was very glad of it , but everybody else was in misery which was quite natural . 
I said The king , by his silence , still stands to the terms . 
MERLIN'S TOWER INASMUCH as I was now the second personage in the Kingdom , as far as political power and author ty were concerned , much was made of me . 
My raiment was of silks and velvets and cloth of gold , and by consequence was very showy , also uncomfort able . 
But habit would soon reconcile me to my clothes I was aware of that . 
I was given the choicest suite of apartments in the castle , after the king's . 
As for conveniences , properly speaking , there weren't any . 
I mean LITTLE conveniences it is the little conveniences that make the real comfort of life . 
The big oaken chairs , graced with rude carvings , were well enough , but that was the stopping place . 
There was no soap , no matches , no looking glass ex cept a metal one , about as powerful as a pail of water . 
I always admired to study R. 's art , it was so fresh and unconventional . 
There wasn't even a bell or a speaking tube in the castle . 
I had a great many servants , and those that were on duty lolled in the anteroom and when I wanted one of them I had to go and call for him . 
A lot of these hung along the walls and modified the dark , just toned it down enough to make it dismal . 
If you went out at night , your ser vants carried torches . 
There were no books , pens , paper or ink , and no glass in the openings they be lieved to be windows . 
It is a little thing glass is until it is absent , then it becomes a big thing . 
But perhaps the worst of all was , that there wasn't any sugar , coffee , tea , or tobacco . 
Well , that was in my line . 
One thing troubled me along at first the immense interest which people took in me . 
Apparently the whole nation wanted a look at me . 
Of course I was all the talk all other subjects were dropped even the king became suddenly a per son of minor interest and notoriety . 
Within twenty four hours the delegations began to arrive , and from that time onward for a fortnight they kept coming . 
The village was crowded , and all the countryside . 
I had to go out a dozen times a day and show myself to these reverent and awe stricken multitudes . 
It turned Brer Merlin green with envy and spite , which was a great satisfaction to me . 
But there was one thing I couldn't understand nobody had asked for an autograph . 
I spoke to Clarence about it . 
By George ! I had to explain to him what it was . 
Then he said nobody in the country could read or write but a few dozen priests . 
Land ! think of that . 
There was another thing that troubled me a little . 
Those multitudes presently began to agitate for another miracle . 
The pressure got to be pretty strong . 
There was going to be an eclipse of the moon , and I knew the date and hour , but it was too far away . 
I would have given a good deal for license to hurry it up and use it now when there was a big market for it . 
It seemed a great pity to have it wasted so , and come lagging along at a time when a body wouldn't have any use for it , as like as not . 
Next , Clarence found that old Merlin was making himself busy on the sly among those people . 
He was spreading a report that I was a humbug , and that the reason I didn't accom modate the people with a miracle was because I couldn't . 
I saw that I must do something . 
I pres ently thought out a plan . 
By my authority as executive I threw Merlin into prison the same cell I had occupied myself . 
I took Clarence into my confidence , to a certain degree , and we went to work privately . 
I told him that this was a sort of miracle that required a trifle of preparation , and that it would be sudden death to ever talk about these preparations to anybody . 
That made his mouth safe enough . 
Clandestinely we made a few bushels of first rate blasting powder , and I superin tended my armorers while they constructed a lightning rod and some wires . 
This old stone tower was very massive and rather ruinous , too , for it was Roman , and four hundred years old . 
Yes , and handsome , after a rude fashion , and clothed with ivy from base to summit , as with a shirt of scale mail . 
It stood on a lonely eminence , in good view from the castle , and about half a mile away . 
We put in a peck at a time , in a dozen places . 
We could have blown up the Tower of London with these charges . 
When the thirteenth night was come we put up our lightning rod , bedded it in one of the batches of powder , and ran wires from it to the other batches . 
Of course , we had a blazing sunny day almost the first one without a cloud for three weeks things always happen so . 
I kept secluded , and watched the weather . 
At last the wind sprang up and a cloud appeared in the right quarter , too , and just at nightfall . 
For a little while I watched that distant cloud spread and blacken , then I judged it was time for me to appear . 
I ordered the torch baskets to be lit , and Merlin liber ated and sent to me . 
A quarter of an hour later I ascended the parapet and there found the king and the court assembled and gazing off in the darkness toward Merlin's Tower . 
Merlin arrived in a gloomy mood . 
I said You wanted to burn me alive when I had not done you any harm , and latterly you have been trying to injure my professional reputation . 
I can , fair sir , and I will . 
Then he began to mutter and make passes in the air with his hands . 
He worked himself up slowly and gradually into a sort of frenzy , and got to thrashing around with his arms like the sails of a windmill . 
Of course , my rod would be loading itself now . 
In fact , things were imminent . 
So I said You have had time enough . 
I have given you every advantage , and not interfered . 
It is plain your magic is weak . 
It is only fair that I begin now . 
Well , it rained mortar and masonry the rest of the week . 
This was the report but probably the facts would have modi fied it . 
It was an effective miracle . 
The great bothersome temporary population vanished . 
There were a good many thousand tracks in the mud the next morning , but they were all outward bound . 
If I had advertised another miracle I couldn't have raised an audience with a sheriff . 
The king wanted to stop his wages he even wanted to banish him , but I inter fered . 
There wasn't a rag of his tower left , but I had the government rebuild it for him , and advised him to take boarders but he was too high toned for that . 
And as for being grateful , he never even said thank you . 
He was a rather hard lot , take him how you might but then you couldn't fairly ex pect a man to be sweet that had been set back so . 
THE BOSS TO be vested with enormous authority is a fine thing but to have the on looking world consent to it is a finer . 
The tower episode solidified my power , and made it impregnable . 
If any were per chance disposed to be jealous and critical before that , they experienced a change of heart , now . 
There was not any one in the kingdom who would have considered it good judgment to meddle with my matters . 
I was fast getting adjusted to my situation and cir cumstances . 
Look at the opportunities here for a man of knowledge , brains , pluck , and enterprise to sail in and grow up with the country . 
What a jump I had made ! I couldn't keep from thinking about it , and contemplating it , just as one does who has struck oil . 
There was nothing back of me that could approach it , unless it might be Joseph's case and Joseph's only approached it , it didn't equal it , quite . 
I was no shadow of a king I was the substance the king himself was the shadow . 
My power was colossal and it was not a mere name , as such things have generally been , it was the genuine article . 
I was a Unique and glad to know that that fact could not be dislodged or chal lenged for thirteen centuries and a half , for sure . 
Yes , in power I was equal to the king . 
At the same time there was another power that was a trifle stronger than both of us put together . 
I do not wish to disguise that fact . 
I couldn't , if I wanted to . 
But never mind about that , now it will show up , in its proper place , later on . 
It didn't cause me any trouble in the beginning at least any of consequence . 
Well , it was a curious country , and full of interest . 
And the people ! They were the quaintest and sim plest and trustingest race why , they were nothing but rabbits . 
And for all this , the thanks they got were cuffs and contempt and so poor spirited were they that they took even this sort of attention as an honor . 
Inherited ideas are a curious thing , and interesting to observe and examine . 
I had mine , the king and his people had theirs . 
The way I was looked upon was odd , but it was natural . 
You know how the keeper and the public regard the elephant in the menagerie well , that is the idea . 
But does that make him one of THEM ? No the raggedest tramp in the pit would smile at the idea . 
He couldn't comprehend it couldn't take it in couldn't in any remote way conceive of it . 
I was admired , also feared but it was as an animal is admired and feared . 
The animal is not reverenced , neither was I I was not even re spected . 
There you see the hand of that awful power , the Roman Catholic Church . 
In two or three little centuries it had converted a nation of men to a nation of worms . 
It seems to show that there isn't anything you can't stand , if you are only born and bred to it . 
The remnant of it was restricted to the dudes and dudesses . 
When a disease has worked its way down to that level , it may fairly be said to be out of the system . 
But to return to my anomalous position in King Arthur's kingdom . 
There were times when HE could sit down in the king's presence , but I couldn't . 
I could have got a title easily enough , and that would have raised me a large step in everybody's eyes even in the king's , the giver of it . 
But I didn't ask for it and I declined it when it was offered . 
I was never known by any other designation afterward , whether in the nation's talk or in grave debate upon matters of state at the council board of the sovereign . 
This title , translated into modern speech , would be THE BOSS . 
And it was a pretty high title . 
There were very few THE'S , and I was one of them . 
I didn't charge for my opinion about them , and they didn't charge for their opinion about me the account was square , the books balanced , everybody was satisfied . 
We had one tournament which was continued from day to day during more than a week , and as many as five hundred knights took part in it , from first to last . 
They came on horseback from everywhere from the very ends of the country , and even from beyond the sea and many brought ladies , and all brought squires and troops of servants . 
It was fight or look on , all day and every day and sing , gamble , dance , carouse half the night every night . 
They had a most noble good time . 
You never saw such people . 
They ruined an uncommon good old cross cut saw for me , and broke the saw buck , too , but I let it pass . 
And as for my axe well , I made up my mind that the next time I lent an axe to a surgeon I would pick my century . 
The first thing you want in a new country , is a patent office then work up your school system and after that , out with your paper . 
A newspaper has its faults , and plenty of them , but no matter , it's hark from the tomb for a dead nation , and don't you forget it . 
You can't resurrect a dead nation without it there isn't any way . 
Well , the priest did very well , considering . 
Then came Sir Pertolope from the castle , and there encountered with him Sir Lionel , and there Sir Pertolope the green knight smote down Sir Lionel , brother to Sir Launcelot . 
All this was marked by noble heralds , who bare him best , and their names . 
Then Sir Bleobaris brake his spear upon Sir Gareth , but of that stroke Sir Bleobaris fell to the earth . 
When Sir Galihodin saw that , he bad Sir Gareth keep him , and Sir Gareth smote him to the earth . 
And thus at every course that he rode to and fro he changed his color , so that there might neither king nor knight have ready cognizance of him . 
Then Sir Agwisance the King of Ireland encountered with Sir Gareth , and there Sir Gareth smote him from his horse , saddle and all . 
And then came King Carados of Scotland , and Sir Gareth smote him down horse and man . 
And in the same wise he served King Uriens of the land of Gore . 
And then there came in Six Bagdemagus , and Sir Gareth smote him down horse and man to the earth . 
And Bagdemagus's son Meliganus brake a spear upon Sir Gareth mightily and knightly . 
And then Sir Galahault the noble prince cried on high , Knight with the many colors , well hast thou justed now make thee ready that I may just with thee . 
Truly , said King Arthur , that knight with the many colors is a good knight . 
Wherefore the king called unto him Sir Launcelot , and prayed him to encounter with that knight . 
There was an unpleasant little episode that day , which for reasons of state I struck out of my priest's report . 
You will have noticed that Garry was doing some great fighting in the engagement . 
When I say Garry I mean Sir Gareth . 
Garry was my private pet name for him it suggests that I had a deep affection for him , and that was the case . 
Well , to pro ceed I sat in the private box set apart for me as the king's minister . 
It was one which I had heard attributed to every humorous person who had ever stood on American soil , from Columbus down to Artemus Ward . 
Well , whenever one of those people got a thing into his head , there was no getting it out again . 
I knew that , so I saved my breath , and offered no explana tions . 
I said I would be ready when he got back . 
You see , he was going for the Holy Grail . 
The boys all took a flier at the Holy Grail now and then . 
It was a several years' cruise . 
You see , it was just the Northwest Passage of that day , as you may say that was all . 
Every year expe ditions went out holy grailing , and next year relief expeditions went out to hunt for THEM . 
There was worlds of reputation in it , but no money . 
Why , they actually wanted ME to put in ! Well , I should smile . 
CHAPTER X. BEGINNINGS OF CIVILIZATION THE Round Table soon heard of the challenge , and of course it was a good deal discussed , for such things interested the boys . 
I was pretty well satisfied with what I had already accomplished . 
In various quiet nooks and corners I had the beginnings of all sorts of industries under way nuclei of future vast factories , the iron and steel missionaries of my future civilization . 
In these were gathered together the brightest young minds I could find , and I kept agents out raking the country for more , all the time . 
I was training a crowd of ignorant folk into experts experts in every sort of handiwork and scientific calling . 
Everybody could be any kind of a Christian he wanted to there was perfect freedom in that matter . 
But I confined public religious teaching to the churches and the Sunday schools , permitting nothing of it in my other educational buildings . 
All mines were royal property , and there were a good many of them . 
Yes , I had made pretty handsome progress when Sir Sagramor's challenge struck me . 
Four years rolled by and then ! Well , you would never imagine it in the world . 
Unlimited power is the ideal thing when it is in safe hands . 
The despotism of heaven is the one absolutely perfect government . 
My works showed what a despot could do with the resources of a kingdom at his command . 
I stood with my hand on the cock , so to speak , ready to turn it on and flood the midnight world with light at any moment . 
But I was not going to do the thing in that sudden way . 
It was not my policy . 
The people could not have stood it and , moreover , I should have had the Established Roman Catholic Church on my back in a minute . 
No , I had been going cautiously all the while . 
I was turning on my light one candle power at a time , and meant to continue to do so . 
I had scattered some branch schools secretly about the kingdom , and they were doing very well . 
I meant to work this racket more and more , as time wore on , if nothing occurred to frighten me . 
One of my deepest secrets was my West Point my military academy . 
I kept that most jealously out of sight and I did the same with my naval academy which I had established at a remote seaport . 
Both were prospering to my satisfaction . 
Clarence was twenty two now , and was my head executive , my right hand . 
He was a darling he was equal to anything there wasn't anything he couldn't turn his hand to . 
He took to it like a duck there was an editor concealed in him , sure . 
Already he had doubled himself in one way he talked sixth century and wrote nineteenth . 
We had another large departure on hand , too . 
This was a telegraph and a telephone our first venture in this line . 
These wires were for private service only , as yet , and must be kept private until a riper day should come . 
We had a gang of men on the road , working mainly by night . 
They were stringing ground wires we were afraid to put up poles , for they would attract too much inquiry . 
Ground wires were good enough , in both instances , for my wires were protected by an insulation of my own invention which was per fect . 
My men had orders to strike across country , avoiding roads , and establishing connection with any considerable towns whose lights betrayed their pres ence , and leaving experts in charge . 
At one time and another we had sent out topo graphical expeditions to survey and map the kingdom , but the priests had always interfered and raised trouble . 
So we had given the thing up , for the present it would be poor wisdom to antagonize the Church . 
As for the general condition of the country , it was as it had been when I arrived in it , to all intents and purposes . 
I had made changes , but they were neces sarily slight , and they were not noticeable . 
Thus far , I had not even meddled with taxation , outside of the taxes which provided the royal revenues . 
I had systematized those , and put the service on an effective and righteous basis . 
Personally , I struck an interruption , now , but I did not mind it , it could not have happened at a better time . 
Earlier it could have annoyed me , but now everything was in good hands and swimming right along . 
The king had reminded me several times , of late , that the postponement I had asked for , four years before , had about run out now . 
So you see I was expecting this interruption it did not take me by surprise . 
THE YANKEE IN SEARCH OF ADVENTURES . 
THERE never was such a country for wandering liars and they were of both sexes . 
But nobody ever thought of so simple and common sense a thing at that . 
No , everybody swallowed these peo ple's lies whole , and never asked a question of any sort or about anything . 
Well , one day when I was not around , one of these people came along it was a she one , this time and told a tale of the usual pat tern . 
Sort of fruit not mentioned their usual slovenliness in statistics . 
Would you believe it ? The king and the whole Round Table were in raptures over this preposterous opportunity for adventure . 
By an effort , I contained my joy when Clarence brought me the news . 
But he he could not contain his . 
His mouth gushed delight and gratitude in a steady discharge delight in my good fortune , grati tude to the king for this splendid mark of his favor for me . 
He could keep neither his legs nor his body still , but pirouetted about the place in an airy ecstasy of happiness . 
Indeed , I SAID I was glad . 
And in a way it was true I was as glad as a person is when he is scalped . 
Well , one must make the best of things , and not waste time with useless fretting , but get down to busi ness and see what can be done . 
In all lies there is wheat among the chaff I must get at the wheat in this case so I sent for the girl and she came . 
She was a comely enough creature , and soft and modest , but , if signs went for anything , she didn't know as much as a lady's watch . 
I said My dear , have you been questioned as to particu lars ? She said she hadn't . 
Well , I didn't expect you had , but I thought I would ask , to make sure it's the way I've been raised . 
Now you mustn't take it unkindly if I remind you that as we don't know you , we must go a little slow . 
You may be all right , of course , and we'll hope that you are but to take it for granted isn't business . 
I'm obliged to ask you a few ques tions just answer up fair and square , and don't be afraid . 
Where do you live , when you are at home ? In the land of Moder , fair sir . 
I don't remember hearing of it before . 
Parents living ? As to that , I know not if they be yet on live , sith it is many years that I have lain shut up in the castle . 
Your name , please ? I hight the Demoiselle Alisande la Carteloise , an it please you . 
Do you know anybody here who can identify you ? That were not likely , fair lord , I being come hither now for the first time . 
Different ? How might that be ? I fear me I do not understand . 
Yes , yes , I reckon that's about the size of it . 
Don't mind my seeming excited I'm not . 
Let us change the subject . 
Yes , it is many leagues . 
Run along , dear good day show her the way , Clarence . 
Oh , well , it was reasonably plain , now , why these donkeys didn't prospect these liars for details . 
Why , she was a perfect ass and yet the king and his knights had listened to her as if she had been a leaf out of the gospel . 
It kind of sizes up the whole party . 
Just as I was ending up these reflections , Clarence came back . 
I remarked upon the barren result of my efforts with the girl hadn't got hold of a single point that could help me to find the castle . 
She will go with thee . 
She will ride with thee . 
Ride with me ? Nonsense ! But of a truth she will . 
She will ride with thee . 
What ? She browse around the hills and scour the woods with me alone and I as good as engaged to be married ? Why , it's scandalous . 
Think how it would look . 
My , the dear face that rose before me ! The boy was eager to know all about this tender matter . 
I swore him to secresy and then whispered her name Puss Flanagan . 
He looked disappointed , and said he didn't remember the countess . 
How natural it was for the little courtier to give her a rank . 
He asked me where she lived . 
In East Har I came to myself and stopped , a little confused then I said , Never mind , now I'll tell you some time . 
But I sighed I couldn't help it . 
And yet there was no sense in sighing , for she wasn't born yet . 
But that is the way we are made we don't reason , where we feel we just feel . 
Well , they WERE good children but just chil dren , that is all . 
It is troublesome to get into , and there is so much detail . 
This is no time to dance . 
The boys helped me , or I never could have got in . 
Just as we finished , Sir Bedivere happened in , and I saw that as like as not I hadn't chosen the most con venient outfit for a long trip . 
How stately he looked and tall and broad and grand . 
He was going grailing , and it was just the outfit for it , too . 
I would have given a good deal for that ulster , but it was too late now to be fooling around . 
The sun was just up , the king and the court were all on hand to see me off and wish me luck so it wouldn't be etiquette for me to tarry . 
You don't get on your horse yourself no , if you tried it you would get dis appointed . 
Everybody was as good to me as they could be , and a maid of honor gave me the stirrup cup her own self . 
And so we started , and everybody gave us a good bye and waved their handkerchiefs or helmets . 
And everybody we met , going down the hill and through the village was respectful to us , except some shabby little boys on the outskirts . 
They said Oh , what a guy ! And hove clods at us . 
In my experience boys are the same in all ages . 
They don't respect anything , they don't care for any thing or anybody . 
The prophet had his bears and settled with his boys and I wanted to get down and settle with mine , but it wouldn't answer , because I couldn't have got up again . 
I hate a country without a derrick . 
SLOW TORTURE STRAIGHT off , we were in the country . 
It was most lovely and pleasant in those sylvan solitudes in the early cool morning in the first freshness of autumn . 
And by and by out we would swing again into the glare . 
It was beginning to get hot . 
We had a very long pull , after that , without any shade . 
Now it is curious how progressively little frets grow and multiply after they once get a start . 
Things which I didn't mind at all , at first , I began to mind now and more and more , too , all the time . 
You see I had my handkerchief in my helmet and some other things but it was that kind of a helmet that you can't take off by yourself . 
That hadn't occurred to me when I put it there and in fact I didn't know it . 
I supposed it would be particularly convenient there . 
Yes , the thing that you can't get is the thing that you want , mainly every one has noticed that . 
It seems like a little thing , on paper , but it was not a little thing at all it was the most real kind of misery . 
I would not say it if it was not so . 
I made up my mind that I would carry along a reticule next time , let it look how it might , and people say what they would . 
I am not better than others . 
Most knights would have thought of nothing but getting his armor but so I got his bandanna , he could keep his hardware , for all of me . 
Meantime , it was getting hotter and hotter in there . 
You see , the sun was beating down and warming up the iron more and more all the time . 
Well , when you are hot , that way , every little thing irritates you . 
And you had to be always changing hands , and passing your spear over to the other foot , it got so irksome for one hand to hold it long at a time . 
Well , you know , when you perspire that way , in rivers , there comes a time when you when you well , when you itch . 
You are inside , your hands are outside so there you are nothing but iron between . 
It is not a light thing , let it sound as it may . 
So I gave in , and got Alisande to unship the helmet and relieve me of it . 
Then she emptied the conveniences out of it and fetched it full of water , and I drank and then stood up , and she poured the rest down inside the armor . 
One cannot think how refreshing it was . 
She continued to fetch and pour until I was well soaked and thoroughly comfortable . 
It was good to have a rest and peace . 
But nothing is quite perfect in this life , at any time . 
These comforts had been in the helmet , and now I had them again , but no matches . 
Gradually , as the time wore along , one annoying fact was borne in upon my understanding that we were weather bound . 
An armed novice cannot mount his horse without help and plenty of it . 
Sandy was not enough not enough for me , anyway . 
We had to wait until somebody should come along . 
Waiting , in silence , would have been agreeable enough , for I was full of matter for reflection , and wanted to give it a chance to work . 
You couldn't think , where Sandy was . 
If she had had a cork she would have been a comfort . 
But you can't cork that kind they would die . 
She could grind , and pump , and churn , and buzz by the week , and never stop to oil up or blow out . 
And yet the result was just nothing but wind . 
She never had any ideas , any more than a fog has . 
She was a perfect blatherskite I mean for jaw , jaw , jaw , talk , talk , talk , jabber , jabber , jabber but just as good as she could be . 
FREEMEN YES , it is strange how little a while at a time a per son can be contented . 
Here was another illustration of the childlike improvidence of this age and people . 
A man in armor always trusted to chance for his food on a journey , and would have been scandalized at the idea of hanging a basket of sandwiches on his spear . 
There was probably not a knight of all the Round Table com bination who would not rather have died than been caught carrying such a thing as that on his flagstaff . 
And yet there could not be anything more sensible . 
Night approached , and with it a storm . 
The dark ness came on fast . 
We must camp , of course . 
I found a good shelter for the demoiselle under a rock , and went off and found another for myself . 
With the storm came a change of weather and the stronger the wind blew , and the wilder the rain lashed around , the colder and colder it got . 
Still , if one did not roll and thrash around he would die so perhaps it is as well to do one way as the other there is no real choice . 
Even after I was frozen solid I could still distinguish that tickling , just as a corpse does when he is taking electric treatment . 
I said I would never wear armor after this trip . 
Measured by modern standards , they were merely modified savages , those people . 
This noble lady showed no impatience to get to breakfast and that smacks of the savage , too . 
As like as not , Sandy was loaded for a three day stretch . 
We were off before sunrise , Sandy riding and I limp ing along behind . 
In half an hour we came upon a group of ragged poor creatures who had assembled to mend the thing which was regarded as a road . 
And yet they were not slaves , not chattels . 
By a sarcasm of law and phrase they were freemen . 
Seven tenths of the free popula tion of the country were of just their class and degree small independent farmers , artisans , etc . 
The talk of these meek people had a strange enough sound in a formerly American ear . 
There was some thing pitifully ludicrous about it . 
I said I had seen one and that it would last until it had an Established Church . 
Again they were all unhit at first . 
But presently one man looked up and asked me to state that proposition again and state it slowly , so it could soak into his understanding . 
I said to myself This one's a man . 
You see my kind of loyalty was loyalty to one's country , not to its institutions or its office holders . 
And now here I was , in a country where a right to say how the country should be governed was restricted to six persons in each thousand of its population . 
It seemed to me that what the nine hundred and ninety four dupes needed was a new deal . 
I had never been accustomed to getting left , even if I do say it myself . 
Wherefore , the deal which had been for some time working into shape in my mind was of a quite different pattern from the Cade Tyler sort . 
He is a priest , then , said the man , and some of the enthusiasm went out of his face . 
But he isn't a priest , I tell you . 
The man looked far from satisfied . 
He said He is not a priest , and yet can read ? He is not a priest and yet can read yes , and write , too , for that matter . 
And it is the first thing that you yourself will be taught in that Factory I ? I would give blood out of my heart to know that art . 
Why , I will be your slave , your No you won't , you won't be anybody's slave . 
Take your family and go along . 
Your lord the bishop will confiscate your small property , but no matter . 
Clarence will fix you all right . 
I had adopted the American values exclusively . 
They thought I was one of those fire belching dragons they had heard so much about from knights and other professional liars . 
I had infinite trouble to persuade those people to venture back within explaining distance . 
Then I told them that this was only a bit of enchant ment which would work harm to none but my enemies . 
The procession moved with a good deal of promptness . 
There were no casualties to report , for nobody had curiosity enough to remain behind to see what would happen . 
Still the delay was not wholly unproductive , for it took all that time to get Sandy thoroughly wonted to the new thing , she being so close to it , you know . 
It plugged up her conversation mill , too , for a consider able while , and that was a gain . 
But above all other benefits accruing , I had learned something . 
I was ready for any giant or any ogre that might come along , now . 
We tarried with a holy hermit , that night , and my opportunity came about the middle of the next after noon . 
I lit up at once , and by the time I had got a good head of reserved steam on , here they came . 
All together , too none of those chivalrous magnanimities which one reads so much about one courtly rascal at a time , and the rest standing by to see fair play . 
It was a handsome sight , a beautiful sight for a man up a tree . 
You should have seen the wave go to pieces and scatter ! This was a finer sight than the other one . 
But these people stopped , two or three hundred yards away , and this troubled me . 
My satisfaction collapsed , and fear came I judged I was a lost man . 
Good land , I'm willing to let bygones be bygones , I'm sure . 
Leave , is it ? Oh , give thyself easement as to that . 
They dream not of it , no , not they . 
They wait to yield them . 
Well , then , suppose I go to them instead , and Ah , wit ye well they would not abide your coming . 
She was a handy person to have along on a raid . 
I would have considered this a doubt ful errand , myself . 
I presently saw the knights riding away , and Sandy coming back . 
I judged she had somehow failed to get the first innings I mean in the conversation otherwise the interview wouldn't have been so short . 
But it turned out that she had managed the business well in fact , admirably . 
So she swore them to appear at Arthur's court within two days and yield them , with horse and harness , and be my knights henceforth , and subject to my command . 
How much better she managed that thing than I should have done it myself ! She was a daisy . 
SANDY'S TALE AND so I'm proprietor of some knights , said I , as we rode off . 
Who would ever have sup posed that I should live to list up assets of that sort . 
I shan't know what to do with them unless I raffle them off . 
How many of them are there , Sandy ? Seven , please you , sir , and their squires . 
It is a good haul . 
Who are they ? Where do they hang out ? Where do they hang out ? Yes , where do they live ? Ah , I understood thee not . 
That will I tell eftsoons . 
Of a truth the phrase hath a fair and winsome grace , and is prettily worded withal . 
I will repeat it anon and anon in mine idlesse , whereby I may peradventure learn it . 
Where do they hang out . 
Even so ! already it falleth trippingly from my tongue , and forasmuch as Don't forget the cowboys , Sandy . 
Cowboys ? Yes the knights , you know You were going to tell me about them . 
A while back , you remember . 
Figuratively speaking , game's called . 
Game Yes , yes , yes ! Go to the bat . 
I mean , get to work on your statistics , and don't burn so much kindling getting your fire started . 
Tell me about the knights . 
I will well , and lightly will begin . 
So they two departed and rode into a great forest . 
And Great Scott ! You see , I recognized my mistake at once . 
I had set her works a going it was my own fault she would be thirty days getting down to those facts . 
And she generally began without a preface and finished without a result . 
If you interrupted her she would either go right along without noticing , or answer with a couple of words , and go back and say the sentence over again . 
Great Scott ! I said in my distress . 
She went right back and began over again So they two departed and rode into a great forest . 
And WHICH two ? Sir Gawaine and Sir Uwaine . 
And so they came to an abbey of monks , and there were well lodged . 
But I've seen it , and I can just see those creatures now , parading before that shield and acting like that . 
The women here do cer tainly act like all possessed . 
Yes , and I mean your best , too , society's very choicest brands . 
The hum blest hello girl along ten thousand miles of wire could teach gentleness , patience , modesty , manners , to the highest duchess in Arthur's land . 
Even so be it , sith ye are so minded . 
Then Sir Gawaine and Sir Uwaine went and saluted them , and asked them why they did that despite to the shield . 
Sirs , said the damsels , we shall tell you . 
Man of brains that is a thing they never think of . 
Tom Sayers John Heenan John L. Sullivan pity but you could be here . 
and he be such a man of prowess as ye speak of , said Sir Gawaine . 
Now , what is his name ? Sir , said they , his name is Marhaus the king's son of Ireland . 
Son of the king of Ireland , you mean the other form doesn't mean anything . 
And look out and hold on tight , now , we must jump this gully . 
There , we are all right now . 
This horse belongs in the circus he is born before his time . 
I know him well , said Sir Uwaine , he is a passing good knight as any is on live . 
If you've got a fault in the world , Sandy , it is that you are a shade too archaic . 
But it isn't any matter . 
for I saw him once proved at a justs where many knights were gathered , and that time there might no man withstand him . 
And therewith Sir Uwaine and Sir Gawaine departed a little from them , and then were they ware where Sir Marhaus came riding on a great horse straight toward them . 
And when the twelve damsels saw Sir Marhaus they fled into the turret as they were wild , so that some of them fell by the way . 
Then the one of the knights of the tower dressed his shield , and said on high , Sir Mar haus defend thee . 
I don't see how people with any feeling can applaud and support it . 
So these two knights came together with great random I saw that I had been asleep and missed a chapter , but I didn't say anything . 
I judged that the Irish knight was in trouble with the visitors by this time , and this turned out to be the case . 
but Sir Marhaus's spear held and therewith Sir Gawaine and his horse rushed down to the earth Just so and brake his back . 
But Sir Gawaine , fro it passed nine of the clock , waxed by the space of three hours ever stronger and stronger . 
and thrice his might was increased . 
Ah , said Sir Gawaine , gentle knight , ye say the word that I should say . 
It is a mixture that is always ineffectual , and should never have been attempted in the first place . 
And yet , once you start a mistake , the trouble is done and you never know what is going to come of it . 
When I came to myself again and began to listen , I perceived that I had lost another chapter , and that Alisande had wandered a long way off with her people . 
In this coun try , said Sir Marhaus , came never knight since it was christened , but he found strange adventures This is not good form , Alisande . 
It is a common literary device with the great authors . 
You should make him say , 'In this country , be jabers , came never knight since it was christened , but he found strange adventures , be jabers . 
You see how much better that sounds . 
came never knight but he found strange adven tures , be jabers . 
Of a truth it doth indeed , fair lord , albeit 'tis passing hard to say , though peradventure that will not tarry but better speed with usage . 
The second damsel was of thirty winter of age , with a circlet of gold about her head . 
She got three dollars a week , but she was worth it . 
I could not follow Alisande's further explanation of who our captured knights were , now I mean in case she should ever get to explaining who they were . 
My interest was gone , my thoughts were far away , and sad . 
Year and day and without baggage . 
It was of a piece with the general simplicity of the country . 
The sun was now setting . 
It was about three in the afternoon when Alisande had begun to tell me who the cowboys were so she had made pretty good progress with it for her . 
She would arrive some time or other , no doubt , but she was not a person who could be hurried . 
It was the largest castle we had seen , and so I thought it might be the one we were after , but Sandy said no . 
She did not know who owned it she said she had passed it without calling , when she went down to Camelot . 
MORGAN LE FAY IF knights errant were to be believed , not all castles were desirable places to seek hospitality in . 
It was very simple you discounted a statement ninety seven per cent . 
So I was pleased when I saw in the dis tance a horseman making the bottom turn of the road that wound down from this castle . 
However , I had to smile at my own forgetfulness when I got nearer and read this sign on his tabard Persimmon's Soap All the Prime Donna Use It . 
That was a little idea of my own , and had several wholesome purposes in view toward the civilizing and uplifting of this nation . 
In the first place , it was a furtive , underhand blow at this nonsense of knight errantry , though nobody suspected that but me . 
This would undermine the Church . 
I mean would be a step toward that . 
Next , education next , freedom and then she would begin to crumble . 
The mission ary's next move was to get the family together and try it on himself he was to stop at no experiment , how ever desperate . 
They were unspeakably holy , and worked miracles , and everybody stood in awe of them . 
If a hermit could survive a wash , and that failed to convince a duke , give him up , let him alone . 
As a consequence the workers in the field were increasing by degrees , and the reform was steadily spreading . 
My soap factory felt the strain early . 
There were ladies present , too , but much these people ever cared for that they would swear before children , if the wind was their way when the factory was going . 
monarch of a realm about as big as the District of Columbia you could stand in the middle of it and throw bricks into the next kingdom . 
La Cote was much depressed , for he had scored here the worst failure of his campaign . 
He had not worked off a cake yet he had tried all the tricks of the trade , even to the washing of a hermit but the hermit died . 
This was , indeed , a bad failure , for this animal would now be dubbed a martyr , and would take his place among the saints of the Roman calendar . 
Thus made he his moan , this poor Sir La Cote Male Taile , and sorrowed passing sore . 
And so my heart bled for him , and I was moved to comfort and stay him . 
Wherefore I said Forbear to grieve , fair knight , for this is not a defeat . 
We have brains , you and I and for such as have brains there are no defeats , but only victories . 
We will put on your bulletin board , 'PATRONIZED BY THE ELECT . 
How does that strike you ? Verily , it is wonderly bethought ! Well , a body is bound to admit that for just a modest little one line ad . 
So the poor colporteur's griefs vanished away . 
He was a brave fellow , and had done mighty feats of arms in his time . 
I knew his story well , and so I knew how to interpret the compassion that was in his face when he bade me farewell . 
He supposed I was having a bitter hard time of it . 
But , said I , suppose the victor should decline to accept his spoil ? She said that that wouldn't answer he must . 
He couldn't decline it wouldn't be regular . 
I made a note of that . 
If Sandy's music got to be too burdensome , some time , I would let a knight defeat me , on the chance that she would desert to him . 
In due time we were challenged by the warders , from the castle walls , and after a parley admitted . 
I have nothing pleasant to tell about that visit . 
But it was not a disappointment , for I knew Mrs. le Fay by reputation , and was not expecting anything pleasant . 
She was held in awe by the whole realm , for she had made everybody believe she was a great sorceress . 
All her ways were wicked , all her instincts devilish . 
She was loaded to the eyelids with cold malice . 
All her history was black with crime and among her crimes murder was common . 
I was most curious to see her as curious as I could have been to see Satan . 
To my surprise she was beautiful black thoughts had failed to make her expression repulsive , age had failed to wrinkle her satin skin or mar its bloomy freshness . 
She could have passed for old Uriens' granddaughter , she could have been mistaken for sister to her own son . 
As soon as we were fairly within the castle gates we were ordered into her presence . 
But Morgan was the main attraction , the conspicuous per sonality here she was head chief of this household , that was plain . 
She caused us to be seated , and then she began , with all manner of pretty graces and graciousnesses , to ask me questions . 
Dear me , it was like a bird or a flute , or something , talking . 
I felt persuaded that this woman must have been misrepre sented , lied about . 
Out of the old king was wrung an involuntary O h ! of compassion . 
The look he got , made him cut it suddenly short and not put any more hyphens in it . 
Sir Uwaine , at a sign from his mother , went to the anteroom and called some servants , and meanwhile madame went rippling sweetly along with her talk . 
It was plain to me that La Cote Male Taile had failed to see the mistress of the house . 
Often , how louder and clearer than any tongue , does dumb circumstantial evidence speak . 
Morgan le Fay rippled along as musically as ever . 
And what a glance she had when it fell in reproof upon those servants , they shrunk and quailed as timid people do when the lightning flashes out of a cloud . 
I could have got the habit myself . 
It was the same with that poor old Brer Uriens he was always on the ragged edge of apprehension she could not even turn toward him but he winced . 
In the midst of the talk I let drop a complimentary word about King Arthur , forgetting for the moment how this woman hated her brother . 
That one little compliment was enough . 
She clouded up like storm she called for her guards , and said Hale me these varlets to the dungeons . 
That struck cold on my ears , for her dungeons had a reputation . 
Nothing occurred to me to say or do . 
But not so with Sandy . 
I was born modest not all over , but in spots and this was one of the spots . 
The effect upon madame was electrical . 
By mine enchantments I foresaw your coming , and by them I knew you when you entered here . 
The guards were less curious , and got out as soon as they got permission . 
However , to my relief she was presently interrupted by the call to prayers . 
I will say this much for the nobility that , tyrannical , murderous , rapacious , and morally rotten as they were , they were deeply and enthusiastically religious . 
Nothing could divert them from the regular and faithful performance of the pieties enjoined by the Church . 
There was to be nothing finer or sweeter in the life of even Benvenuto Cellini , that rough hewn saint , ten centuries later . 
The credit of this belonged entirely to the Church . 
Although I was no friend to that Cath olic Church , I was obliged to admit this . 
At the head of the hall , on a dais , was the table of the king , queen , and their son , Prince Uwaine . 
Stretching down the hall from this , was the general table , on the floor . 
It was a very fine show . 
It was new , and ought to have been rehearsed a little more . 
For some reason or other the queen had the composer hanged , after dinner . 
After this music , the priest who stood behind the royal table said a noble long grace in ostensible Latin . 
The rows of chops opened and shut in vast unison , and the sound of it was like to the muffled burr of subterranean machinery . 
The havoc continued an hour and a half , and unim aginable was the destruction of substantials . 
With the pastries and so on , the heavy drinking began and the talk . 
Gallon after gallon of wine and mead disappeared , and everybody got comfortable , then happy , then sparklingly joyous both sexes , and by and by pretty noisy . 
Men told anecdotes that were terrific to hear , but nobody blushed and when the nub was sprung , the assemblage let go with a horse laugh that shook the fortress . 
Of the ladies , the worst spectacle was a lovely young duch ess , whose wedding eve this was and indeed she was a spectacle , sure enough . 
It was a shame it was a cruel thing to see . 
What could be done ? Sandy gave me a look I knew she had an other inspiration . 
I said Do what you choose . 
She was up and facing toward the queen in a mo ment . 
She indicated me , and said Madame , HE saith this may not be . 
When she reached it she was sober . 
So were many of the others . 
Well , well , well , they WERE a superstitious lot . 
It is all a body can do to conceive of it . 
The poor queen was so scared and humbled that she was even afraid to hang the composer without first consulting me . 
I therefore considered the matter thoughtfully , and ended by having the musicians ordered into our presence to play that Sweet Bye and Bye again , which they did . 
Then I saw that she was right , and gave her permission to hang the whole band . 
This little relaxation of sternness had a good effect upon the queen . 
A little concession , now and then , where it can do no harm , is the wiser policy . 
I mean it set her music going her silver bell of a tongue . 
Dear me , she was a master talker . 
It would not become me to suggest that it was pretty late and that I was a tired man and very sleepy . 
I wished I had gone off to bed when I had the chance . 
Now I must stick it out there was no other way . 
The queen stopped , and her eyes lighted with pleasure she tilted her graceful head as a bird does when it listens . 
The sound bored its way up through the stillness again . 
What is it ? I said . 
It is truly a stubborn soul , and endureth long . 
It is many hours now . 
Endureth what ? The rack . 
Come ye shall see a blithe sight . 
An he yield not his secret now , ye shall see him torn asunder . 
What a silky smooth hellion she was and so com posed and serene , when the cords all down my legs were hurting in sympathy with that man's pain . 
He had been accused by an anonymous informer , of having killed a stag in the royal preserves . 
I said Anonymous testimony isn't just the right thing , your Highness . 
It were fairer to confront the accused with the accuser . 
I had not thought of that , it being but of small consequence . 
But what is your highness's idea for racking the prisoner ? Where is the profit ? He will not confess , else and then were his soul lost . 
Nay , I were a fool to fling me into hell for HIS accommodation . 
But , your Highness , suppose he has nothing to confess ? As to that , we shall see , anon . 
It was the stubborn unreasoning of the time . 
It was useless to argue with her . 
Arguments have no chance against petrified training they wear it as little as the waves wear a cliff . 
And her training was everybody's . 
The brightest intellect in the land would not have been able to see that her position was defective . 
As we entered the rack cell I caught a picture that will not go from me I wish it would . 
A native young giant of thirty or thereabouts lay stretched upon the frame on his back , with his wrists and ankles tied to ropes which led over windlasses at either end . 
There was no color in him his features were contorted and set , and sweat drops stood upon his forehead . 
I could not let this horror go on it would have killed me to see it . 
She saw she had to yield . 
I asked her to indorse me to these peo ple , and then leave me . 
It was not pleasant for her , but she took the pill and even went further than I was meaning to require . 
I only wanted the backing of her own authority but she said Ye will do in all things as this lord shall command . 
It was certainly a good word to conjure with you could see it by the squirming of these rats . 
I had the prisoner taken from the rack and placed upon his bed , and medicaments applied to his hurts , and wine given him to drink . 
It was pitiful to see . 
Lord , I said , stroke him , lass , if you want to . 
Do anything you're a mind to don't mind me . 
Why , her eyes were as grateful as an animal's , when you do it a kindness that it understands . 
The baby was out of her way and she had her cheek against the man's in a minute . 
and her hands fondling his hair , and her happy tears running down . 
The man revived and caressed his wife with his eyes , which was all he could do . 
I judged I might clear the den , now , and I did cleared it of all but the family and myself . 
Then I said Now , my friend , tell me your side of this matter I know the other side . 
The man moved his head in sign of refusal . 
But the woman looked pleased as it seemed to me pleased with my suggestion . 
I went on You know of me ? Yes . 
All do , in Arthur's realms . 
If my reputation has come to you right and straight , you should not be afraid to speak . 
The woman broke in , eagerly Ah , fair my lord , do thou persuade him ! Thou canst an thou wilt . 
Imploring what ? The man's death ? I could not quite get the bearings of the thing . 
But Hugo interrupted her and said Peace ! Ye wit not what ye ask . 
Shall I starve whom I love , to win a gentle death ? I wend thou knewest me better . 
Well , I said , I can't quite make this out . 
Why didn't you before ? Who doubted ? Not I , indeed and not she . 
Well , why wouldn't you tell me your story , then ? Ye had made no promise else had it been other wise . 
I see , I see . 
And yet I believe I don't quite see , after all . 
What did you want him to do that for ? Sith it would bring him a quick death and save him all this cruel pain . 
Well yes , there is reason in that . 
But HE didn't want the quick death . 
He ? Why , of a surety he DID . 
They could torture you to death , but without conviction or confession they could not rob your wife and baby . 
I'll book you both for my colony you'll like it there it's a Factory where I'm going to turn groping and grubbing automata into MEN . 
IN THE QUEEN'S DUNGEONS WELL , I arranged all that and I had the man sent to his home . 
The priests told me about this , and were generously hot to have him punished . 
Something of this disagreeable sort was turning up every now and then . 
But I did not like it , for it was just the sort of thing to keep people reconciled to an Estab lished Church . 
Well , I couldn't rack the executioner , neither would I overlook the just complaint of the priests . 
The man must be punished somehow or other , so I degraded him from his office and made him leader of the band the new one that was to be started . 
He begged hard , and said he couldn't play a plausible excuse , but too thin there wasn't a musician in the country that could . 
The queen was a good deal outraged , next morning when she found she was going to have neither Hugo's life nor his property . 
How thou talkest ! Crime , forsooth ! Man , I am going to PAY for him ! Oh , it was no use to waste sense on her . 
Training training is everything training is all there is TO a person . 
We speak of nature it is folly there is no such thing as nature what we call by that misleading name is merely heredity and training . 
We have no thoughts of our own , no opinions of our own they are transmitted to us , trained into us . 
No , confound her , her intellect was good , she had brains enough , but her training made her an ass that is , from a many centuries later point of view . 
To kill the page was no crime it was her right and upon her right she stood , serenely and unconscious of offense . 
Well , we must give even Satan his due . 
She de served a compliment for one thing and I tried to pay it , but the words stuck in my throat . 
She had a right to kill the boy , but she was in no wise obliged to pay for him . 
That was law for some other people , but not for her . 
Quite true , but I meant to hang her for it some day if I lived . 
Some of those laws were too bad , altogether too bad . 
A gentleman could kill a free commoner , and pay for him cash or garden truck . 
A noble could kill a noble without ex pense , as far as the law was concerned , but reprisals in kind were to be expected . 
ANYbody could kill SOME body , except the commoner and the slave these had no privileges . 
If they killed , it was murder , and the law wouldn't stand murder . 
It made short work of the experimenter and of his family , too , if he mur dered somebody who belonged up among the orna mental ranks . 
If I had the remaking of man , he wouldn't have any conscience . 
Still , this is only my opinion , and I am only one man others , with less experience , may think differently . 
They have a right to their view . 
I only stand to this I have noticed my conscience for many years , and I know it is more trouble and bother to me than anything else I started with . 
I suppose that in the beginning I prized it , because we prize anything that is ours and yet how foolish it was to think so . 
If we look at it in another way , we see how absurd it is if I had an anvil in me would I prize it ? Of course not . 
And yet when you come to think , there is no real difference between a conscience and an anvil I mean for comfort . 
I have noticed it a thousand times . 
There was something I wanted to do before leaving , but it was a disagreeable matter , and I hated to go at it . 
Well , it bothered me all the morning . 
He was nothing , this so called king the queen was the only power there . 
And she was a Vesuvius . 
As a favor , she might consent to warm a flock of sparrows for you , but then she might take that very opportunity to turn herself loose and bury a city . 
However , I reflected that as often as any other way , when you are expecting the worst , you get something that is not so bad , after all . 
So I braced up and placed my matter before her royal Highness . 
She resisted but I was expecting that . 
I was expecting that , too , but not so soon . 
That about ended my discomfort . 
She called her guards and torches , and we went down into the dungeons . 
These were down under the castle's foundations , and mainly were small cells hollowed out of the living rock . 
Some of these cells had no light at all . 
This poor rack of bones was a woman of middle age , apparently but only apparently she had been there nine years , and was eighteen when she entered . 
The young husband had interfered at that point . 
I wanted to see the man , after hearing all this . 
He was thirty four years old , and looked sixty . 
There were some pathetically suggestive dumb witnesses present . 
Chains cease to be needed after the spirit has gone out of a prisoner . 
The sight of her would set his stagnant blood leaping the sight of her But it was a disappointment . 
I had them taken out and sent to their friends . 
The queen did not like it much . 
Not that she felt any personal interest in the matter , but she thought it dis respectful to Sir Breuse Sance Pite . 
However , I assured her that if he found he couldn't stand it I would fix him so that he could . 
I set forty seven prisoners loose out of those awful rat holes , and left only one in captivity . 
He was a lord , and had killed another lord , a sort of kinsman of the queen . 
That other lord had ambushed him to assassinate him , but this fellow had got the best of him and cut his throat . 
However , it was not for that that I left him jailed , but for maliciously destroying the only public well in one of his wretched villages . 
The queen was bound to hang him for killing her kinsman , but I would not allow it it was no crime to kill an assassin . 
But I said I was willing to let her hang him for destroying the well so she concluded to put up with that , as it was better than nothing . 
The newest prisoner's crime was a mere remark which he had made . 
He said he believed that men were about all alike , and one man as good as another , barring clothes . 
Apparently here was a man whose brains had not been reduced to an ineffectual mush by idiotic training . 
I set him loose and sent him to the Factory . 
The case of one of these poor fel lows was particularly hard . 
In the course of years he noted festivities there , and tried to rejoice , and wondered if they were weddings or what they might be . 
And he noted funerals and they wrung his heart . 
He could make out the coffin , but he could not determine its size , and so could not tell whether it was wife or child . 
He could see the procession form , with priests and mourn ers , and move solemnly away , bearing the secret with them . 
He had left behind him five children and a wife and in nineteen years he had seen five funerals issue , and none of them humble enough in pomp to denote a servant . 
This man was in pretty good condi tion yet . 
But for me , he never would have got out . 
Morgan le Fay hated him with her whole heart , and she never would have softened toward him . 
And yet his crime was committed more in thoughtlessness than deliberate depravity . 
He had said she had red hair . 
Well , she had but that was no way to speak of it . 
When red headed people are above a certain social grade their hair is auburn . 
They themselves had long ago forgotten these details at any rate they had mere vague theories about them , nothing definite and nothing that they re peated twice in the same way . 
These traditions went but little way , for they concerned the length of the incar ceration only , and not the names of the offenses . 
The king and the queen knew nothing about these poor creatures , except that they were heirlooms , assets inherited , along with the throne , from the former firm . 
Nothing of their history had been transmitted with their persons , and so the inheriting owners had considered them of no value , and had felt no interest in them . 
I said to the queen Then why in the world didn't you set them free ? The question was a puzzler . 
She didn't know WHY she hadn't , the thing had never come up in her mind . 
So here she was , forecasting the veritable history of future prisoners of the Castle d'If , without knowing it . 
It seemed plain to me now , that with her training , those inherited prisoners were merely property noth ing more , nothing less . 
Well , when we inherit prop erty , it does not occur to us to throw it away , even when we do not value it . 
Skeletons , scarecrows , goblins , pathetic frights , every one legitimatest possible children of Monarchy by the Grace of God and the Established Church . 
I muttered absently I WISH I could photograph them ! You have seen that kind of people who will never let on that they don't know the meaning of a new big word . 
The more ignorant they are , the more pitifully certain they are to pretend you haven't shot over their heads . 
The queen was just one of that sort , and was always making the stupidest blunders by reason of it . 
She hesitated a moment then her face brightened up with sudden comprehension , and she said she would do it for me . 
I thought to myself She ? why what can she know about photography ? But it was a poor time to be thinking . 
When I looked around , she was moving on the procession with an axe ! Well , she certainly was a curious one , was Morgan le Fay . 
I have seen a good many kinds of women in my time , but she laid over them all for variety . 
And how sharply characteristic of her this episode was . 
She had no more idea than a horse of how to photo graph a procession but being in doubt , it was just like her to try to do it with an axe . 
KNIGHT ERRANTRY AS A TRADE SANDY and I were on the road again , next morn ing , bright and early . 
Poor girl , her jaws had had a wearisome rest now for a while , and I was expecting to get the conse quences . 
I won't interrupt this time , if I can help it . 
Begin over again start fair , and shake out all your reefs , and I will load my pipe and give good attention . 
Now turn we unto Sir Marhaus that rode with the damsel of thirty winter of age southward . 
And on the morn the duke sent unto Sir Marhaus , and bad him make him ready . 
Then came the four sons by couples , and two of them brake their spears , and so did the other two . 
And all this while Sir Marhaus touched them not . 
Then Sir Marhaus ran to the duke , and smote him with his spear that horse and man fell to the earth . 
And so he served his sons . 
And then Sir Marhaus alight down , and bad the duke yield him or else he would slay him . 
And then some of his sons recovered , and would have set upon Sir Marhaus . 
Then Sir Marhaus said to the duke , Cease thy sons , or else I will do the uttermost to you all . 
When the duke saw he might not escape the death , he cried to his sons , and charged them to yield them to Sir Mar haus . 
And they kneeled all down and put the pom mels of their swords to the knight , and so he received them . 
The story is borrowed , language and all , from the Morte d'Arthur . 
M. T. Even so standeth the history , fair Sir Boss . 
Well , well , well , now who would ever have thought it ? One whole duke and six dukelets why , Sandy , it was an elegant haul . 
Not that I would ever engage in it as a business , for I wouldn't . 
No sound and legitimate business can be established on a basis of speculation . 
Can you call THOSE assets ? Give me pork , every time . 
Your head's all right , as far as it goes , but you don't know business that's where the trouble is . 
It unfits you to argue about business , and you're wrong to be always trying . 
However , that aside , it was a good haul , anyway , and will breed a handsome crop of reputation in Arthur's court . 
And speaking of the cowboys , what a curious country this is for women and men that never get old . 
As I understand it , Sir Gawaine killed seven of his sons , and still he had six left for Sir Marhaus and me to take into camp . 
The mill had shut down for repairs , or something . 
I was glad of his coming , for even by this token I knew him for knight of mine . 
He was never long in a stranger's presence without finding some pretext or other to let out that great fact . 
This innocent vast lubber did not see any particular difference between the two facts . 
I liked him , for he was earnest in his work , and very valuable . 
This was a tooth wash that I was introducing . 
He was aweary , he said , and indeed he looked it but he would not alight . 
He said he was after the stove polish man and with this he broke out cursing and swearing anew . 
He was of a light and laughing disposition , and to him nothing in this world was serious . 
It was for this reason that I had chosen him to work up a stove polish sentiment . 
There were no stoves yet , and so there could be nothing serious about stove polish . 
Sir Madok was very bitter , and brake out anew with cursings . 
With characteristic zeal Sir Madok had plunged away at once upon this quest , and after three hours of awful crosslot riding had overhauled his game . 
And with these words and others , he lightly took his spear and gat him thence . 
In the middle of the after noon we came upon one of those very patriarchs our selves , in the edge of a poor village . 
To wit , that this dreadful matter brought from these downtrodden people no outburst of rage against these oppressors . 
They had been heritors and subjects of cruelty and outrage so long that nothing could have startled them but a kindness . 
Yes , here was a curious revelation , indeed , of the depth to which this people had been sunk in slavery . 
Their entire being was reduced to a monotonous dead level of patience , resignation , dumb uncomplaining acceptance of whatever might befall them in this life . 
Their very imagination was dead . 
When you can say that of a man , he has struck bottom , I reckon there is no lower deep for him . 
I rather wished I had gone some other road . 
This was not the sort of experience for a statesman to en counter who was planning out a peaceful revolution in his mind . 
If history teaches anything , it teaches that . 
What this folk needed , then , was a Reign of Terror and a guillotine , and I was the wrong man for them . 
Two days later , toward noon , Sandy began to show signs of excitement and feverish expectancy . 
She said we were approaching the ogre's castle . 
I was surprised into an uncomfortable shock . 
Sandy's excitement increased every moment and so did mine , for that sort of thing is catching . 
My heart got to thumping . 
You can't reason with your heart it has its own laws , and thumps about things which the intellect scorns . 
And they kept it up while she was gaining her ambush and getting her glimpse over the declivity and also while I was creeping to her side on my knees . 
She looked surprised and distressed . 
The animation faded out of her face and during many moments she was lost in thought and silent . 
Then It was not enchanted aforetime , she said in a musing fashion , as if to herself . 
The castle was enchanted to ME , not to her . 
It would be wasted time to try to argue her out of her delusion , it couldn't be done I must just humor it . 
So I said This is a common case the enchanting of a thing to one eye and leaving it in its proper form to another . 
You have heard of it before , Sandy , though you haven't happened to experience it . 
But no harm is done . 
In fact , it is lucky the way it is . 
But here , by good luck , no one's eyes but mine are under the enchantment , and so it is of no consequence to dissolve it . 
Thanks , oh , sweet my lord , thou talkest like an angel . 
I will not leave a princess in the sty , Sandy . 
Are those three yonder that to my disordered eyes are starveling swine herds The ogres , Are THEY changed also ? It is most wonderful . 
You be easy , Sandy . 
All I need to know is , how MUCH of an ogre is invisible then I know how to locate his vitals . 
Don't you be afraid , I will make short work of these bunco steerers . 
I left Sandy kneeling there , corpse faced but plucky and hopeful , and rode down to the pigsty , and struck up a trade with the swine herds . 
I won their gratitude by buying out all the hogs at the lump sum of sixteen pennies , which was rather above latest quotations . 
But now the tax people could be paid in cash , and there would be a stake left besides . 
I sent the three men away , and then opened the sty gate and beckoned Sandy to come which she did and not leisurely , but with the rush of a prairie fire . 
We had to drive those hogs home ten miles and no ladies were ever more fickle minded or contrary . 
And they must not be struck , or roughly accosted Sandy could not bear to see them treated in ways unbecoming their rank . 
The troublesomest old sow of the lot had to be called my Lady , and your Highness , like the rest . 
It is annoy ing and difficult to scour around after hogs , in armor . 
There was one small countess , with an iron ring in her snout and hardly any hair on her back , that was the devil for perversity . 
I seized her at last by the tail , and brought her along squealing . 
When I overtook Sandy she was horrified , and said it was in the last degree indelicate to drag a countess by her train . 
We got the hogs home just at dark most of them . 
Of course , the whole drove was housed in the house , and , great guns ! well , I never saw anything like it . 
Nor ever heard anything like it . 
And never smelt anything like it . 
It was like an insurrection in a gaso meter . 
The ripping and tearing and squealing of the nobility up and down the halls and corridors was pandemonium come again , and kept me broad awake . 
Being awake , my thoughts were busy , of course and mainly they busied themselves with Sandy's curious delusion . 
Here she was , as sane a person as the kingdom could produce and yet , from my point of view she was acting like a crazy woman . 
My land , the power of training ! of influence ! of education ! It can bring a body up to believe any thing . 
I had to put myself in Sandy's place to realize that she was not a lunatic . 
Yes , and put her in mine , to demonstrate how easy it is to seem a lunatic to a person who has not been taught as you have been taught . 
Yes , Sandy was sane that must be admitted . 
If I also would be sane to Sandy I must keep my superstitions about unenchanted and unmiraculous locomotives , balloons , and telephones , to myself . 
I could have eaten with the hogs if I had had birth approaching my lofty official rank but I hadn't , and so accepted the unavoidable slight and made no complaint . 
Sandy and I had our breakfast at the second table . 
The family were not at home . 
I said How many are in the family , Sandy , and where do they keep themselves ? Family ? Yes . 
Which family , good my lord ? Why , this family your own family . 
Sooth to say , I understand you not . 
No family ? Why , Sandy , isn't this your home ? Now how indeed might that be ? I have no home . 
Well , then , whose house is this ? Ah , wit you well I would tell you an I knew myself . 
Come you don't even know these people ? Then who invited us here ? None invited us . 
We but came that is all . 
Why , woman , this is a most extraordinary per formance . 
The effrontery of it is beyond admiration . 
How did you ever venture to take this extravagant liberty ? I supposed , of course , it was your home . 
No , it's an even bet that this is the first time he has had a treat like this . 
Then let him be thankful , and manifest the same by grateful speech and due humility he were a dog , else , and the heir and ancestor of dogs . 
To my mind , the situation was uncomfortable . 
It might become more so . 
It might be a good idea to muster the hogs and move on . 
So I said The day is wasting , Sandy . 
It is time to get the nobility together and be moving . 
Don't you see , we could distribute these people around the earth in less time than it is going to take you to explain that we can't . 
We mustn't talk now , we must act . 
You want to be careful you mustn't let your mill get the start of you that way , at a time like this . 
To business now and sharp's the word . 
Who is to take the aristocracy home ? Even their friends . 
These will come for them from the far parts of the earth . 
This was lightning from a clear sky , for unexpected ness and the relief of it was like pardon to a prisoner . 
She would remain to deliver the goods , of course . 
This was recalling the pardon . 
How ? You will go with me ? Why should you ? Will I be traitor to my knight , dost think ? That were dishonor . 
I may not part from thee until in knightly encounter in the field some overmatching champion shall fairly win and fairly wear me . 
I were to blame an I thought that that might ever hap . 
Elected for the long term , I sighed to myself . 
I may as well make the best of it . 
So then I spoke up and said All right let us make a start . 
While she was gone to cry her farewells over the pork , I gave that whole peerage away to the servants . 
A departure from custom that settled it it was a nation capable of committing any crime but that . 
The first thing we struck that day was a procession of pilgrims . 
There were young men and old men , young women and old women , lively folk and grave folk . 
They rode upon mules and horses , and there was not a side saddle in the party for this specialty was to remain unknown in England for nine hundred years yet . 
It was a pleasant , friendly , sociable herd pious , happy , merry and full of unconscious coarsenesses and innocent indecencies . 
What they regarded as the merry tale went the continual round and caused no more embarrassment than it would have caused in the best English society twelve centuries later . 
Sandy knew the goal and purpose of this pilgrimage , and she posted me . 
She said They journey to the Valley of Holiness , for to be blessed of the godly hermits and drink of the miracu lous waters and be cleased from sin . 
Where is this watering place ? It lieth a two day journey hence , by the borders of the land that hight the Cuckoo Kingdom . 
Is it a celebrated place ? Oh , of a truth , yes . 
There be none more so . 
Of old time there lived there an abbot and his monks . 
Right so came they to be known of all the world by reason of these holy austerities , and visited by rich and poor , and reverenced . 
But always there was lack of water there . 
Whereas , upon a time , the holy abbot prayed , and for answer a great stream of clear water burst forth by miracle in a desert place . 
Now mark thou what 'tis to forsake the ways of purity the which He loveth , and wanton with such as be worldly and an offense . 
They fared mildly , Sandy , considering how that kind of crime is regarded in this country . 
Belike but it was their first sin and they had been of perfect life for long , and differing in naught from the angels . 
Prayers , tears , torturings of the flesh , all was vain to beguile that water to flow again . 
Even processions even burnt offerings even votive candles to the Virgin , did fail every each of them and all in the land did marvel . 
How odd to find that even this industry has its financial panics , and at times sees its assignats and greenbacks languish to zero , and everything come to a standstill . 
And so upon a time , after year and day , the good abbot made humble surrender and destroyed the bath . 
Then I take it nobody has washed since . 
He that would essay it could have his halter free yes , and swiftly would he need it , too . 
The community has prospered since ? Even from that very day . 
The fame of the miracle went abroad into all lands . 
And these were friendly unto those , and they joined their loving labors together , and together they built a fair great foundling asylum midway of the valley between . 
You spoke of some hermits , Sandy . 
These have gathered there from the ends of the earth . 
A hermit thriveth best where there be multi tudes of pilgrims . 
Ye shall not find no hermit of no sort wanting . 
They were on foot , and had tramped three hundred miles in eighteen days , upon the cheapest odds and ends of food , and stingy rations of that . 
They had slept in these chains every night , bundled together like swine . 
They had upon their bodies some poor rags , but they could not be said to be clothed . 
Their irons had chafed the skin from their ankles and made sores which were ulcerated and wormy . 
Their naked feet were torn , and none walked without a limp . 
Originally there had been a hundred of these unfortunates , but about half had been sold on the trip . 
The trader in charge of them rode a horse and carried a whip with a short handle and a long heavy lash divided into several knotted tails at the end . 
With this whip he cut the shoulders of any that tottered from weariness and pain , and straightened them up . 
He did not speak the whip conveyed his desire without that . 
None of these poor creatures looked up as we rode along by they showed no con sciousness of our presence . 
The file moved in a cloud of its own making . 
All these faces were gray with a coating of dust . 
One has seen the like of this coating upon furniture in unoccupied houses , and has written his idle thought in it with his finger . 
It stung me as if I had been hit in stead . 
The master halted the file and jumped from his horse . 
She dropped on her knees and put up her hands and began to beg , and cry , and implore , in a passion of terror , but the master gave no attention . 
One of the men who was holding her turned away his face , and for this humanity he was reviled and flogged . 
All our pilgrims looked on and commented on the expert way in which the whip was handled . 
They were too much hardened by lifelong everyday familiar ity with slavery to notice that there was anything else in the exhibition that invited comment . 
I wanted to stop the whole thing and set the slaves free , but that would not do . 
I must not interfere too much and get myself a name for riding over the country's laws and the citizen's rights roughshod . 
They were removed then there was a squabble between the gentleman and the dealer as to which should pay the blacksmith . 
He strained her to his breast , and smothered her face and the child's with kisses , and washed them with the rain of his tears . 
Yes , I was right it was husband and wife . 
He was in the gentlemen's furnishing line , and his missionarying specialty was plug hats . 
It was another of my surreptitious schemes for extinguishing knighthood by making it grotesque and absurd . 
I dressed and ran down to welcome Sir Ozana and get his news . 
How is trade ? I asked . 
Ye will note that I have but these four left yet were they sixteen whenas I got me from Camelot . 
Why , you have certainly done nobly , Sir Ozana . 
Where have you been foraging of late ? I am but now come from the Valley of Holiness , please you sir . 
I am pointed for that place myself . 
Is there anything stirring in the monkery , more than com mon ? By the mass ye may not question it ! . 
Give him good feed , boy , and stint it not , an thou valuest thy crown so get ye lightly to the stable and do even as I bid . 
Ye say well , good people . 
I was verging to it , even when ye spake . 
Has somebody been washing again ? Nay , it is suspected , but none believe it . 
It is thought to be some other sin , but none wit what . 
How are they feeling about the calamity ? None may describe it in words . 
The fount is these nine days dry . 
As soon as it was over I showed to Sir Ozana these words which I had written on the inside of his hat Chemical Department , Labor atory extension , Section G. Pxxp . 
Send two of first size , two of No. , and six of No. , together with the proper complementary details and two of my trained assistants . 
I will well , Sir Boss , and he was off . 
THE HOLY FOUNTAIN THE pilgrims were human beings . 
Otherwise they would have acted differently . 
There is no accounting for human beings . 
That is , its large features . 
These were the three masses of buildings . 
They were distant and isolated temporalities shrunken to toy con structions in the lonely waste of what seemed a desert and was . 
Such a scene is always mournful , it is so impressively still , and looks so steeped in death . 
We reached the monastery before dark , and there the males were given lodging , but the women were sent over to the nunnery . 
The bells were close at hand now , and their solemn booming smote upon the ear like a message of doom . 
A superstitious despair pos sessed the heart of every monk and published itself in his ghastly face . 
Everywhere , these black robed , soft sandaled , tallow visaged specters appeared , flitted about and disappeared , noiseless as the creatures of a troubled dream , and as uncanny . 
The old abbot's joy to see me was pathetic . 
Even to tears but he did the shedding himself . 
He said Delay not , son , but get to thy saving work . 
An we bring not the water back again , and soon , we are ruined , and the good work of two hundred years must end . 
And see thou do it with enchantments that be holy , for the Church will not endure that work in her cause be done by devil's magic . 
When I work , Father , be sure there will be no devil's work connected with it . 
I shall use no arts that come of the devil , and no elements not created by the hand of God . 
But is Merlin working strictly on pious lines ? Ah , he said he would , my son , he said he would , and took oath to make his promise good . 
Well , in that case , let him proceed . 
But surely you will not sit idle by , but help ? It will not answer to mix methods , Father neither would it be professional courtesy . 
Two of a trade must not underbid each other . 
We might as well cut rates and be done with it it would arrive at that in the end . 
Merlin has the contract no other magician can touch it till he throws it up . 
But I will take it from him it is a terrible emer gency and the act is thereby justified . 
I will take it from him you shall begin upon the moment . 
It may not be , Father . 
No doubt , as you say , where power is supreme , one can do as one likes and suffer no injury but we poor magicians are not so situated . 
Merlin is a very good magician in a small way , and has quite a neat provincial reputation . 
He is struggling along , doing the best he can , and it would not be etiquette for me to take his job until he himself abandons it . 
Ah , that is simple . 
There are ways to persuade him to abandon it . 
No no , Father , it skills not , as these people say . 
If he were persuaded against his will , he would load that well with a malicious enchantment which would balk me until I found out its secret . 
It might take a month . 
I could set up a little enchantment of mine which I call the telephone , and he could not find out its secret in a hundred years . 
Yes , you perceive , he might block me for a month . 
Would you like to risk a month in a dry time like this ? A month ! The mere thought of it maketh me to shudder . 
Have it thy way , my son . 
But my heart is heavy with this disappointment . 
My presence gave the monks hope , and cheered them up a good deal insomuch that they ate a square meal that night for the first time in ten days . 
As soon as their stomachs had been properly reinforced with food , their spirits began to rise fast when the mead began to go round they rose faster . 
Matters got to be very jolly . 
At last I ventured a story myself and vast was the success of it . 
I was at the well next day betimes . 
Merlin was there , enchanting away like a beaver , but not raising the moisture . 
Matters were about as I expected to find them . 
The fountain was an ordinary well , it had been dug in the ordinary way , and stoned up in the ordinary way . 
There was no miracle about it . 
Even the lie that had created its reputation was not miraculous I could have told it myself , with one hand tied behind me . 
That is , nobody but angels they are always on deck when there is a miracle to the fore so as to get put in the picture , perhaps . 
Angels are as fond of that as a fire company look at the old masters . 
I entered it , for I had tempo rary authority to do so , by courtesy of my professional brother and subordinate . 
But he hadn't entered it himself . 
He did everything by incantations he never worked his intellect . 
I had an idea that the well had sprung a leak that some of the wall stones near the bottom had fallen and exposed fissures that allowed the water to escape . 
I measured the chain feet . 
Then I called in couple of monks , locked the door , took a candle , and made them lower me in the bucket . 
When the chain was all paid out , the candle confirmed my suspicion a considerable section of the wall was gone , exposing a good big fissure . 
I almost regretted that my theory about the well's trouble was correct , because I had another one that had a showy point or two about it for a miracle . 
I remembered that in America , many centuries later , when an oil well ceased to flow , they used to blast it out with a dynamite torpedo . 
It was my idea to appoint Merlin . 
However , it was plain that there was no occasion for the bomb . 
One cannot have everything the way he would like it . 
A man has no business to be depressed by a disappointment , any way he ought to make up his mind to get even . 
That is what I did . 
I said to myself , I am in no hurry , I can wait that bomb will come good yet . 
And it did , too . 
How does the water usually stand in it ? Near to the top , these two centuries , as the testi mony goeth , brought down to us through our prede cessors . 
Old habit of mind is one of the toughest things to get away from in the world . 
I said to the monk It is a difficult miracle to restore water in a dry well , but we will try , if my brother Merlin fails . 
Brother Merlin is a very passable artist , but only in the parlor magic line , and he may not succeed in fact , is not likely to succeed . 
But that should be nothing to his discredit the man that can do THIS kind of miracle knows enough to keep hotel . 
Hotel ? I mind not to have heard Of hotel ? It's what you call hostel . 
The man that can do this miracle can keep hostel . 
I can do this miracle I shall do this miracle yet I do not try to conceal from you that it is a miracle to tax the occult powers to the last strain . 
None knoweth that truth better than the brother hood , indeed for it is of record that aforetime it was parlous difficult and took a year . 
Natheless , God send you good success , and to that end will we pray . 
As a matter of business it was a good idea to get the notion around that the thing was difficult . 
Many a small thing has been made large by the right kind of advertising . 
That monk was filled up with the diffi culty of this enterprise he would fill up the others . 
In two days the solicitude would be booming . 
On my way home at noon , I met Sandy . 
She had been sampling the hermits . 
I said I would like to do that myself . 
Is there a matinee ? A which , please you , sir ? Matinee . 
Do they keep open afternoons ? Who ? The hermits , of course . 
Keep open ? Yes , keep open . 
Isn't that plain enough ? Do they knock off at noon ? Knock off ? Knock off ? yes , knock off . 
You can't seem to understand the simplest thing . 
I couldn't make it all out that is , the details but I got the general idea and enough of it , too , to be ashamed . 
Then we meandered pleasantly away toward the hermit holes in sociable converse together , and better friends than ever . 
We drifted from hermit to hermit all the afternoon . 
It was a most strange menagerie . 
The chief emulation among them seemed to be , to see which could manage to be the uncleanest and most prosperous with vermin . 
Their manner and attitudes were the last expression of complacent self righteousness . 
By and by we went to see one of the supremely great ones . 
He was a mighty celebrity his fame had penetrated all Christendom the noble and the re nowned journeyed from the remotest lands on the globe to pay him reverence . 
His stand was in the center of the widest part of the valley and it took all that space to hold his crowds . 
His stand was a pillar sixty feet high , with a broad platform on the top of it . 
He was now doing what he had been doing every day for twenty years up there bowing his body ceaselessly and rapidly almost to his feet . 
It was his way of praying . 
I timed him with a stop watch , and he made , revolutions in min utes and seconds . 
It seemed a pity to have all this power going to waste . 
I worked him Sundays and all he was going , Sundays , the same as week days , and it was no use to waste the power . 
Stylite patronized by the Nobility . 
There was more money in the business than one knew what to do with . 
Yes , it was a daisy . 
But he had earned it . 
I can say that for him . 
When I saw him that first time however , his per sonal condition will not quite bear description here . 
You can read it in the Lives of the Saints . 
All the details concerning the hermits , in this chapter , are from Lecky but greatly modified . 
This book not being a history but only a tale , the majority of the historian's frank details were too strong for reproduction in it . 
RESTORATION OF THE FOUNTAIN SATURDAY noon I went to the well and looked on a while . 
Peace , until I finish . 
He poured out volumes of speech to match , and contorted his body and sawed the air with his hands in a most extraordinary way . 
At the end of twenty minutes he dropped down panting , and about exhausted . 
The abbot inquired anxiously for results . 
Merlin said If any labor of mortal might break the spell that binds these waters , this which I have but just essayed had done it . 
The mortal does not breathe , nor ever will , who can penetrate the secret of that spell , and without that secret none can break it . 
The water will flow no more forever , good Father . 
I have done what man could . 
Of course this threw the abbot into a good deal of a consternation . 
He turned to me with the signs of it in his face , and said Ye have heard him . 
Is it true ? Part of it is . 
Not all , then , not all ! What part is true ? That that spirit with the Russian name has put his spell upon the well . 
God's wownds , then are we ruined ! Possibly . 
But not certainly ? Ye mean , not certainly ? That is it . 
Wherefore , ye also mean that when he saith none can break the spell Yes , when he says that , he says what isn't neces sarily true . 
There are conditions under which an effort to break it may have some chance that is , some small , some trifling chance of success . 
The conditions Oh , they are nothing difficult . 
Are these all ? Yes . 
And you have no fear to try ? Oh , none . 
One may fail , of course and one may also succeed . 
One can try , and I am ready to chance it . 
I have my conditions ? These and all others ye may name . 
I will issue commandment to that effect . 
Wait , said Merlin , with an evil smile . 
Ye wit that he that would break this spell must know that spirit's name ? Yes , I know his name . 
You had that knowledge ! Art a fool ? Are ye minded to utter that name and die ? Utter it ? Why certainly . 
I would utter it if it was Welsh . 
Ye are even a dead man , then and I go to tell Arthur . 
Take your gripsack and get along . 
The thing for YOU to do is to go home and work the weather , John W. Merlin . 
It was a home shot , and it made him wince for he was the worst weather failure in the kingdom . 
When ever he ordered up the danger signals along the coast there was a week's dead calm , sure , and every time he prophesied fair weather it rained brickbats . 
But I kept him in the weather bureau right along , to undermine his reputation . 
However , that shot raised his bile , and instead of starting home to report my death , he said he would remain and enjoy it . 
My two experts arrived in the evening , and pretty well fagged , for they had traveled double tides . 
They got their supper and a nap , and about midnight we sallied out through a solitude so wholly vacant and complete that it quite overpassed the required condi tions . 
We took possession of the well and its sur roundings . 
My boys were experts in all sorts of things , from the stoning up of a well to the construct ing of a mathematical instrument . 
An hour before sunrise we had that leak mended in ship shape fashion , and the water began to rise . 
Then we stowed our fire works in the chapel , locked up the place , and went home to bed . 
In nine hours the water had risen to its customary level that is to say , it was within twenty three feet of the top . 
About two hundred yards off , in the flat , we built a pen of scantlings , about four feet high , and laid planks on it , and so made a platform . 
We covered it with swell tapestries borrowed for the occasion , and topped it off with the abbot's own throne . 
I know the value of these things , for I know human nature . 
You can't throw too much style into a miracle . 
It costs trouble , and work , and sometimes money but it pays in the end . 
Well , we brought the wires to the ground at the chapel , and then brought them under the ground to the platform , and hid the batteries there . 
We put a rope fence a hundred feet square around the platform to keep off the common multitude , and that finished the work . 
My idea was , doors open at , per formance to begin at sharp . 
I wished I could charge admission , but of course that wouldn't answer . 
Then we went home to supper . 
The news of the disaster to the well had traveled far by this time and now for two or three days a steady avalanche of people had been pouring into the valley . 
The lower end of the valley was become one huge camp we should have a good house , no question about that . 
Criers went the rounds early in the eve ning and announced the coming attempt , which put every pulse up to fever heat . 
With it came Merlin , and took a front seat on the platform he was as good as his word for once . 
One could not see the multitudes banked together be yond the ban , but they were there , just the same . 
At length , out of the silence a noble Latin chant men's voices broke and swelled up and rolled away into the night , a majestic tide of melody . 
I had put that up , too , and it was one of the best effects I ever invented . 
The abbot and the monks crossed themselves nimbly and their lips fluttered with agitated prayers . 
Merlin held his grip , but he was astonished clear down to his corns he had never seen anything to begin with that , before . 
Now was the time to pile in the effects . 
In the distance one could see that fellow on the pillar standing rigid against the background of sky , his seesaw stopped for the first time in twenty years . 
I knew the boys were at the pump now and ready . 
So I said to the abbot The time is come , Father . 
I am about to pro nounce the dread name and command the spell to dis solve . 
You want to brace up , and take hold of some thing . 
Then I shouted to the people Behold , in another minute the spell will be broken , or no mortal can break it . 
It was more eloquent than speech . 
And harder to get over , too , in a country where there were really no doctors that were worth a damaged nickel . 
Yes , it was pretty to see , and made me think more of them than I had done before . 
I sent Merlin home on a shutter . 
He had caved in and gone down like a landslide when I pronounced that fearful name , and had never come to since . 
He never had heard that name before , neither had I but to him it was the right one . 
Any jumble would have been the right one . 
He admitted , afterward , that that spirit's own mother could not have pronounced that name better than I did . 
He never could under stand how I survived it , and I didn't tell him . 
It is only young magicians that give away a secret like that . 
Merlin spent three months working enchantments to try to find out the deep trick of how to pronounce that name and outlive it . 
I was aware of that . 
It was a great night , an immense night . 
There was reputation in it . 
I could hardly get to sleep for glory ing over it . 
A RIVAL MAGICIAN MY influence in the Valley of Holiness was some thing prodigious now . 
It seemed worth while to try to turn it to some valuable account . 
The thought came to me the next morning , and was sug gested by my seeing one of my knights who was in the soap line come riding in . 
According to history , the monks of this place two centuries before had been worldly minded enough to want to wash . 
It might be that there was a leaven of this unrighteousness still re maining . 
Would God I might wash me ! but it may not be , fair sir , tempt me not it is forbidden . 
So I went to the abbot and asked for a permit for this Brother . 
I have mysterious knowledge which teaches me that there was an error that other time when it was thought the institution of the bath banished the fountain . 
A large interest began to show up in the old man's face . 
My knowledge informs me that the bath was inno cent of that misfortune , which was caused by quite another sort of sin . 
These are brave words but but right welcome , if they be true . 
They are true , indeed . 
Let me build the bath again , Father . 
Let me build it again , and the fountain shall flow forever . 
You promise this ? you promise it ? Say the word say you promise it ! I do promise it . 
Then will I have the first bath myself ! Go get ye to your work . 
Tarry not , tarry not , but go . 
I and my boys were at work , straight off . 
The ruins of the old bath were there yet in the basement of the monastery , not a stone missing . 
They had been left just so , all these lifetimes , and avoided with a pious fear , as things accursed . 
In two days we had it all done and the water in a spacious pool of clear pure water that a body could swim in . 
It was running water , too . 
It came in , and went out , through the ancient pipes . 
The old abbot kept his word , and was the first to try it . 
It was a good campaign that we made in that Valley of Holiness , and I was very well satisfied , and ready to move on now , but I struck a disappointment . 
I caught a heavy cold , and it started up an old lurking rheuma tism of mine . 
Of course the rheumatism hunted up my weakest place and located itself there . 
This was the place where the abbot put his arms about me and mashed me , what time he was moved to testify his gratitude to me with an embrace . 
When at last I got out , I was a shadow . 
Sandy was worn out with nursing so I made up my mind to turn out and go a cruise alone , leaving her at the nunnery to rest up . 
My idea was to disguise myself as a freeman of peasant degree and wander through the country a week or two on foot . 
This would give me a chance to eat and lodge with the lowliest and poorest class of free citizens on equal terms . 
There was no other way to inform myself perfectly of their everyday life and the operation of the laws upon it . 
My surprise was great the place was newly swept and scoured . 
Then there was another surprise . 
I said How long has this office been established here , Ulfius ? But since midnight , fair Sir Boss , an it please you . 
It isn't a town in the customary sense , but it's a good stand , anyway . 
Well , this is the Valley of Holiness . 
It didn't take I mean , he didn't start at the name , as I had supposed he would . 
He merely said I will so report it . 
We learn naught but that we get by the telephone from Camelot . 
Why THEY know all about this thing . 
Haven't they told you anything about the great miracle of the restoration of a holy fountain ? Oh , THAT ? Indeed yes . 
But the name of THIS valley doth woundily differ from the name of THAT one indeed to differ wider were not pos What was that name , then ? The Valley of Hellishness . 
Confound a telephone , anyway . 
It is the very demon for conveying similarities of sound that are miracles of divergence from similarity of sense . 
But no matter , you know the name of the place now . 
He did it , and had Clarence sent for . 
It was good to hear my boy's voice again . 
It was like being home . 
This will bring them here when ? Mid afternoon , or later , the third day . 
Anything else in the way of news ? The king hath begun the raising of the standing army ye suggested to him one regiment is complete and officered . 
The mischief ! I wanted a main hand in that my self . 
There is only one body of men in the kingdom that are fitted to officer a regular army . 
Yes and now ye will marvel to know there's not so much as one West Pointer in that regiment . 
What are you talking about ? Are you in earnest ? It is truly as I have said . 
Why , this makes me uneasy . 
Who were chosen , and what was the method ? Competitive examination ? Indeed , I know naught of the method . 
I but know this these officers be all of noble family , and are born what is it you call it ? chuckleheads . 
There's something wrong , Clarence . 
Comfort yourself , then for two candidates for a lieutenancy do travel hence with the king young nobles both and if you but wait where you are you will hear them questioned . 
That is news to the purpose . 
I will get one West Pointer in , anyway . 
I have laid a ground wire to the school . 
Prithee let me connect you with it . 
It sounded good ! In this atmosphere of telephones and lightning communication with distant regions , I was breathing the breath of life again after long suffo cation . 
I gave my order to the superintendent of the Acad emy personally . 
I also asked him to bring me some paper and a fountain pen and a box or so of safety matches . 
I was getting tired of doing without these conveniences . 
I could have them now , as I wasn't going to wear armor any more at present , and there fore could get at my pockets . 
When I got back to the monastery , I found a thing of interest going on . 
The abbot and his monks were assembled in the great hall , observing with childish wonder and faith the performances of a new magician , a fresh arrival . 
His dress was the extreme of the fantastic as showy and foolish as the sort of thing an Indian medicine man wears . 
He was mowing , and mumbling , and gesticulating , and drawing mystical figures in the air and on the floor , the regular thing , you know . 
He was a celebrity from Asia so he said , and that was enough . 
That sort of evidence was as good as gold , and passed current everywhere . 
How easy and cheap it was to be a great magician on this fellow's terms . 
He told them what the Supreme Lord of Inde was doing . 
Then he told them what the Sultan of Egypt was at also what the King of the Remote Seas was about . 
And so on and so on and with each new marvel the astonishment at his accuracy rose higher and higher . 
They thought he must surely strike an uncertain place some time but no , he never had to hesitate , he always knew , and always with unerring precision . 
I saw that if this thing went on I should lose my supremacy , this fellow would capture my following , I should be left out in the cold . 
I must put a cog in his wheel , and do it right away , too . 
I said If I might ask , I should very greatly like to know what a certain person is doing . 
It will be difficult perhaps impossible . 
My art knoweth not that word . 
The more difficult it is , the more certainly will I reveal it to you . 
You see , I was working up the interest . 
It was getting pretty high , too you could see that by the craning necks all around , and the half suspended breathing . 
So now I climaxed it If you make no mistake if you tell me truly what I want to know I will give you two hundred silver pennies . 
The fortune is mine ! I will tell you what you would know . 
Then tell me what I am doing with my right hand . 
Ah h ! There was a general gasp of surprise . 
It had not occurred to anybody in the crowd that simple trick of inquiring about somebody who wasn't ten thousand miles away . 
The magician was hit hard it was an emergency that had never happened in his experience before , and it corked him he didn't know how to meet it . 
He looked stunned , confused he couldn't say a word . 
Very well , I'll tell you why you don't speak up and tell it is because you don't know . 
YOU a magician ! Good friends , this tramp is a mere fraud and liar . 
This distressed the monks and terrified them . 
They were not used to hearing these awful beings called names , and they did not know what might be the con sequence . 
There was a dead silence now superstitious bodings were in every mind . 
He said It hath struck me speechless , the frivolity of this person's speech . 
Had ye asked me what Arthur the great king is doing , it were another matter , and I had told ye but the doings of a subject interest me not . 
Oh , I misunderstood you . 
I thought you said 'anybody , and so I supposed 'anybody' included well , anybody that is , everybody . 
It doth anybody that is of lofty birth and the better if he be royal . 
Our Arthur the king Would you know of him ? broke in the en chanter . 
Most gladly , yea , and gratefully . 
Everybody was full of awe and interest again right away , the incorrigible idiots . 
God's benison upon him ! said the abbot , and crossed himself may that sleep be to the refresh ment of his body and his soul . 
And so it might be , if he were sleeping , I said , but the king is not sleeping , the king rides . 
Here was trouble again a conflict of authority . 
Nobody knew which of us to believe I still had some reputation left . 
You have lived in the woods , and lost much by it . 
I use incantations myself , as this good brotherhood are aware but only on occasions of moment . 
When it comes to sarcasming , I reckon I know how to keep my end up . 
That jab made this fellow squirm . 
The abbot inquired after the queen and the court , and got this information They be all on sleep , being overcome by fatigue , like as to the king . 
I said That is merely another lie . 
Half of them are about their amusements , the queen and the other half are not sleeping , they ride . 
And where will they be the day after to morrow at vespers ? Far to the north of Camelot , and half their journey will be done . 
That is another lie , by the space of a hundred and fifty miles . 
Their journey will not be merely half done , it will be all done , and they will be HERE , in this valley . 
THAT was a noble shot ! It set the abbot and the monks in a whirl of excitement , and it rocked the en chanter to his base . 
I followed the thing right up If the king does not arrive , I will have myself ridden on a rail if he does I will ride you on a rail instead . 
Next day I went up to the telephone office and found that the king had passed through two towns that were on the line . 
I spotted his progress on the succeeding day in the same way . 
I kept these matters to myself . 
The third day's reports showed that if he kept up his gait he would arrive by four in the afternoon . 
There was still no sign anywhere of interest in his coming there seemed to be no preparations making to receive him in state a strange thing , truly . 
Only one thing could explain this that other magician had been cut ting under me , sure . 
Think of that ! Observe how much a reputation was worth in such a country . 
And that was the sort of state he arrived in . 
He took one look and then flew to rouse out his forces . 
It was a fashion of the time . 
And although this expedition was strictly a holiday excur sion for the king , he kept some of his business func tions going just the same . 
He touched for the evil , as usual he held court in the gate at sunrise and tried cases , for he was himself Chief Justice of the King's Bench . 
He shone very well in this latter office . 
He was a wise and humane judge , and he clearly did his honest best and fairest , according to his lights . 
That is a large reservation . 
His lights I mean his rearing often colored his decisions . 
It was impossible that this should be otherwise . 
This has a harsh sound , and yet should not be offensive to any even to the noble himself unless the fact itself be an offense for the statement simply formulates a fact . 
The repulsive feature of slavery is the THING , not its name . 
They are the result of the same cause in both cases the possessor's old and inbred custom of re garding himself as a superior being . 
The king's judg ments wrought frequent injustices , but it was merely the fault of his training , his natural and unalterable sympathies . 
One very curious case came before the king . 
A young girl , an orphan , who had a considerable estate , married a fine young fellow who had nothing . 
The girl's property was within a seigniory held by the Church . 
The penalty of refusal or avoidance was confiscation . 
It was a very odd case , indeed . 
It reminded me of something I had read in my youth about the ingenious way in which the aldermen of London raised the money that built the Mansion House . 
A person who had not taken the Sacrament according to the Anglican rite could not stand as a candidate for sheriff of London . 
Thus Dissenters were ineligible they could not run if asked , they could not serve if elected . 
The girl's case seemed strong to me the bishop's case was just as strong . 
I did not see how the king was going to get out of this hole . 
I append his decision Truly I find small difficulty here , the matter being even a child's affair for simpleness . 
Pardy , the woman's case is rotten at the source . 
Next ! Here was a tragic end to a beautiful honeymoon not yet three months old . 
Poor young creatures ! They had lived these three months lapped to the lips in worldly comforts . 
Well , the king was out of the hole and on terms satisfactory to the Church and the rest of the aristoc racy , no doubt . 
Men write many fine and plausible arguments in support of monarchy , but the fact re mains that where every man in a State has a vote , brutal laws are impossible . 
King Arthur had hurried up the army business altogether beyond my calculations . 
I was impatient to see what this was and to show , too , how much more admirable was the one which I should display to the Examining Board . 
I intimated this , gently , to the king , and it fired his curiosity When the Board was assembled , I followed him in and behind us came the candidates . 
One of these candidates was a bright young West Pointer of mine , and with him were a couple of my West Point pro fessors . 
When I saw the Board , I did not know whether to cry or to laugh . 
My candidate was called first , out of courtesy to me , and the head of the Board opened on him with official solemnity Name ? Mal ease . 
H'm I my memory faileth to recall the name . 
Weaver ! God keep us ! The king was staggered , from his summit to his foundations one clerk fainted , and the others came near it . 
The chairman pulled himself together , and said indignantly It is sufficient . 
But I appealed to the king . 
I begged that my can didate might be examined . 
The king was willing , but the Board , who were all well born folk , implored the king to spare them the indignity of examining the weaver's son . 
I knew they didn't know enough to examine him anyway , so I joined my prayers to theirs and the king turned the duty over to my professors . 
I had had a blackboard prepared , and it was put up now , and the circus began . 
I judged that the cake was ours , and by a large majority . 
Education is a great thing . 
One of the young nobles was called up now . 
I thought I would question him a little myself . 
You are not here to air your blood or your graces , and nothing of the sort will be permitted . 
Can you write ? No. Do you know the multiplication table ? I wit not what ye refer to . 
Yes , in this country . 
It was unaccountable that he didn't attempt a little help of that sort out of his majestic supply of incapacity for the job . 
But that didn't prove that he hadn't material in him for the disposition , it only proved that he wasn't a typewriter copyist yet . 
He knew somewhat about the warfare of the time bushwhacking around for ogres , and bull fights in the tournament ring , and such things but otherwise he was empty and useless . 
Then we took the other young noble in hand , and he was the first one's twin , for ignorance and incapacity . 
I delivered them into the hands of the chairman of the Board with the comfortable consciousness that their cake was dough . 
They were examined in the previous order of precedence . 
Name , so please you ? Pertipole , son of Sir Pertipole , Baron of Barley Mash . 
Grandfather ? Also Sir Pertipole , Baron of Barley Mash . 
Great grandfather ? The same name and title . 
Great great grandfather ? We had none , worshipful sir , the line failing be fore it had reached so far back . 
It is a good four generations , and fulfilleth the requirements of the rule . 
Fulfills what rule ? I asked . 
The rule requiring four generations of nobility or else the candidate is not eligible . 
Oh , come , this is an astonishing thing . 
As how ? For that she hath established the self same rule regarding saints . 
By her law none may be canonized until he hath lain dead four generations . 
I see , I see it is the same thing . 
Does the king's grace approve of this strange law ? The king said Why , truly I see naught about it that is strange . 
The rule is but to mark a limit . 
Its purpose is to keep out too recent blood , which would bring into contempt these offices , and men of lofty lineage would turn their backs and scorn to take them . 
I were to blame an I permitted this calamity . 
Proceed , sir Chief of the Herald's Col lege . 
Sire , the Board finds this candidate perfect in all the requirements and qualifications for military com mand , and doth hold his case open for decision after due examination of his competitor . 
The competitor came forward and proved exactly four generations of nobility himself . 
So there was a tie in military qualifications that far . 
Ah , this , indeed , is true nobility , this is the right and perfect intermixture . 
The lieutenancy is yours , fair lord . 
Hold it not in contempt it is the humble step which will lead to grandeurs more worthy of the splendor of an origin like to thine . 
I was down in the bottomless pit of humiliation . 
I had promised myself an easy and zenith scouring triumph , and this was the outcome ! I was almost ashamed to look my poor disappointed cadet in the face . 
I told him to go home and be patient , this wasn't the end . 
I had a private audience with the king , and made a proposition . 
I said it was quite right to officer that regiment with nobilities , and he couldn't have done a wiser thing . 
This would make that regiment the heart's desire of all the nobility , and they would all be satisfied and happy . 
The king was charmed with the idea . 
When I noticed that , it gave me a valuable notion . 
I thought I saw my way out of an old and stubborn difficulty at last . 
You see , the royalties of the Pen dragon stock were a long lived race and very fruitful . 
Whenever a child was born to any of these and it was pretty often there was wild joy in the nation's mouth , and piteous sorrow in the nation's heart . 
The joy was questionable , but the grief was honest . 
Be cause the event meant another call for a Royal Grant . 
Long was the list of these royalties , and they were a heavy and steadily increasing burden upon the treasury and a menace to the crown . 
Yet Arthur could not believe this latter fact , and he would not listen to any of my various projects for substituting something in the place of the royal grants . 
But I believed I saw my chance at last . 
I would form this crack regiment out of officers alone not a single private . 
These princes of the blood should range in rank from Lieutenant General up to Field Marshal , and be gorgeously salaried and equipped and fed by the state . 
, and they and they only in all England should be so addressed . 
Finally , all princes of the blood should have free choice join that regiment , get that great title , and renounce the royal grant , or stay out and receive a grant . 
All the boys would join , I was sure of that so , all existing grants would be relinquished that the newly born would always join was equally certain . 
Within sixty days that quaint and bizarre anomaly , the Royal Grant , would cease to be a living fact , and take its place among the curiosities of the past . 
He wanted to glide out the back way and start at once but I showed him that that wouldn't answer . 
And I thought he ought to tell the queen he was going away . 
He clouded up at that and looked sad . 
Of course , I changed the Subject . 
Yes , Guenever was beautiful , it is true , but take her all around she was pretty slack . 
I never meddled in these matters , they weren't my affair , but I did hate to see the way things were going on , and I don't mind saying that much . 
There was a very good lay out for the king's evil business very tidy and creditable . 
The king sat under a canopy of state about him were clustered a large body of the clergy in full canonicals . 
Conspicu ous , both for location and personal outfit , stood Marinel , a hermit of the quack doctor species , to introduce the sick . 
All abroad over the spacious floor , and clear down to the doors , in a thick jumble , lay or sat the scrofulous , under a strong light . 
It was as good as a tableau in fact , it had all the look of being gotten up for that , though it wasn't . 
There were eight hundred sick people present . 
Up to this time this coin had been a wee little gold piece worth about a third of a dollar . 
So I had privately concluded to touch the treasury itself for the king's evil . 
It might strain the nickel some , but I judged it could stand it . 
As a rule , I do not approve of water ing stock , but I considered it square enough in this case , for it was just a gift , anyway . 
Of course , you can water a gift as much as you want to and I gener ally do . 
This batch was the first it was tried on , and it worked to a charm . 
The saving in expense was a notable economy . 
If you take a nation of , , , where average wages are per day , three days' wages taken from each individual will provide , , and pay the government's expenses . 
Nothing could be equaler than that , I reckon . 
Well , Scotland and Ireland were tributary to Arthur , and the united popu lations of the British Islands amounted to something less than , OOO , OOO . 
A mechanic's average wage was cents a day , when he paid his own keep . 
By this rule the national government's expenses were , a year , or about a day . 
The buttons would answer the ignorant savage as well as the coin , the coin would answer me better than the buttons all hands were happy and nobody hurt . 
Marinel took the patients as they came . 
He ex amined the candidate if he couldn't qualify he was warned off if he could he was passed along to the king . 
A priest pronounced the words , They shall lay their hands on the sick , and they shall recover . 
Then the king stroked the ulcers , while the reading continued finally , the patient graduated and got his nickel the king hanging it around his neck himself and was dismissed . 
Would you think that that would cure ? It certainly did . 
Any mummery will cure if the patient's faith is strong in it . 
Of course , when I was told these things I did not be lieve them but when I went there and saw them I had to succumb . 
I saw the cures effected myself and they were real cures and not questionable . 
I saw cripples whom I had seen around Camelot for years on crutches , arrive and pray before that picture , and put down their crutches and walk off without a limp . 
There were piles of crutches there which had been left by such people as a testimony . 
In other places people operated on a patient's mind , without saying a word to him , and cured him . 
In others , experts assembled patients in a room and prayed over them , and appealed to their faith , and those patients went away cured . 
In my youth the monarchs of England had ceased to touch for the evil , but there was no occasion for this diffidence they could have cured it forty nine times in fifty . 
I was sitting by an open window not far from the canopy of state . 
But I was the only person in all that throng who knew the meaning of this mighty birth , and what this imperial magician was come into the world to do . 
I dropped a nickel out of the window and got my paper the Adam newsboy of the world went around the corner to get my change is around the corner yet . 
It was delicious to see a newspaper again , yet I was conscious of a secret shock when my eye fell upon the first batch of display head lines . 
Yes , it was too loud . 
Once I could have enjoyed it and seen nothing out of the way about it , but now its note was discordant . 
It was good Arkansas journalism , but this was not Arkansas . 
Moreover , the next to the last line was calculated to give offense to the hermits , and perhaps lose us their advertising . 
Indeed , there was too lightsome a tone of flippancy all through the paper . 
It was plain I had undergone a considerable change without noticing it . 
I found myself unpleasantly affected by pert little irreverencies which would have seemed but proper and airy graces of speech at an earlier period of my life . 
There was an abundance of the following breed of items , and they discomforted me LOCAL SMOKE AND CINDERS . 
Sir Launcelot met up with old King Agrivance of Ireland unexpectedly last weok over on the moor south of Sir Balmoral le Merveilleuse's hog dasture . 
The widow has been notified . 
Expedition No. will start adout the first of mext month on a search f r Sir Sagramour le Desirous . 
It is in com and of the renowned Knight of the Red Lawns , assissted by Sir Persant of Inde , who is compete t . 
intelligent , courte ous , and in every way a brick , and fur tHer assisted by Sir Palamides the Sara cen , who is no huckleberry hinself . 
This is no pic nic , these boys mean busine s . 
When this administration wants to chalk up a desirable name for early promotion , the Hosannah would like a chance to sudgest . 
The Demoiselle Irene Dewlap , of South Astolat , is visiting her uncle , the popular host of the Cattlemen's Board ing Ho se , Liver Lane , this city . 
Young Barker the bellows mender is hoMe again , and looks much improved by his vacation round up among the out lying smithies . 
Of course it was good enough journalism for a be ginning I knew that quite well , and yet it was some how disappointing . 
The Court Circular pleased me better indeed , its simple and dignified respect fulness was a distinct refreshment to me after all those disgraceful familiarities . 
But even it could have been improved . 
Do what one may , there is no getting an air of variety into a court circular , I acknowledge that . 
There is a profound monotonousness about its facts that baffles and defeats one's sincerest efforts to make them sparkle and enthuse . 
Clarence's way was good , it was simple , it was dignified , it was direct and business like all I say is , it was not the best way COURT CIRCULAR . 
On Monday , the king rode in the park . 
Tuesday , Wendesday Thursday Friday , Saturday Sunday , However , take the paper by and large , I was vastly pleased with it . 
As a rule , the grammar was leaky and the construc tion more or less lame but I did not much mind these things . 
They are common defects of my own , and one mustn't criticise other people on grounds where he can't stand perpendicular himself . 
I put my information in the simplest form I could It is a public journal I will explain what that is , another time . 
It is not cloth , it is made of paper some time I will explain what paper is . 
The lines on it are reading matter and not written by hand , but printed by and by I will explain what printing is . 
A thousand of these sheets have been made , all exactly like this , in every minute detail they can't be told apart . 
Then they all broke out with exclamations of surprise and admiration A thousand ! Verily a mighty work a year's work for many men . 
No merely a day's work for a man and a boy . 
They crossed themselves , and whiffed out a protec tive prayer or two . 
Ah h a miracle , a wonder ! Dark work of en chantment . 
I let it go at that . 
Yes , this was heaven I was tasting it once , if I might never taste it more . 
So I inverted a bowl over his head and cut away all the locks that hung below it . 
I also trimmed his whiskers and mustache until they were only about a half inch long and tried to do it inartistically , and succeeded . 
It was a villainous disfigurement . 
We slipped away an hour before dawn , and by broad sun up had made eight or ten miles , and were in the midst of a sparsely settled country . 
I found a comfortable seat for the king by the road side , and then gave him a morsel or two to stay his stomach with . 
Then I said I would find some water for him , and strolled away . 
Part of my project was to get out of sight and sit down and rest a little myself . 
I didn't want to break him in suddenly , but do it by degrees . 
I found the water some three hundred yards away , and had been resting about twenty minutes , when I heard voices . 
That is all right , I thought peasants going to work nobody else likely to be stirring this early . 
And in plenty good enough time , too . 
Pardon , my king , but it's no time for ceremony jump ! Jump to your feet some quality are coming ! Is that a marvel ? Let them come . 
But my liege ! You must not be seen sitting . 
Rise ! and stand in humble posture while they pass . 
You are a peasant , you know . 
He looked as humble as the leaning tower at Pisa . 
It is the most you could say of it . 
He mastered himself for the moment , but it was a sore tax he wanted to eat up the procession . 
I said It would end our adventures at the very start and we , being without weapons , could do nothing with that armed gang . 
If we are going to succeed in our emprise , we must not only look the peasant but act the peasant . 
It is wisdom none can gainsay it . 
Let us go on , Sir Boss . 
I will take note and learn , and do the best I may . 
He did the best he could , but I've seen better . 
And yet , during the first three days I never allowed him to enter a hut or other dwelling . 
If he could pass muster anywhere during his early novitiate it would be in small inns and on the road so to these places we confined ourselves . 
Yes , he certainly did the best he could , but what of that ? He didn't improve a bit that I could see . 
He was always frightening me , always breaking out with fresh astonishers , in new and unexpected places . 
Thine might fail thee in some pinch . 
But people of our condition are not allowed to carry arms . 
I persuaded him to throw the dirk away and it was as easy as persuading a child to give up some bright fresh new way of killing itself . 
We walked along , silent and thinking . 
I believed thou wert greater than Merlin and truly in magic thou art . 
But prophecy is greater than magic . 
I saw I had made a blunder . 
I must get back my lost ground . 
After a deep reflection and careful plan ning , I said Sire , I have been misunderstood . 
There are two kinds of prophecy . 
One is the gift to foretell things that are but a little way off , the other is the gift to foretell things that are whole ages and centuries away . 
Which is the mightier gift , do you think ? Oh , the last , most surely ! True . 
Does Merlin possess it ? Partly , yes . 
He foretold mysteries about my birth and future kingship that were twenty years away . 
Has he ever gone beyond that ? He would not claim more , I think . 
It is probably his limit . 
All prophets have their limit . 
The limit of some of the great prophets has been a hundred years . 
These are few , I ween . 
There have been two still greater ones , whose limit was four hundred and six hundred years , and one whose limit compassed even seven hundred and twenty . 
Gramercy , it is marvelous ! But what are these in comparison with me ? They are nothing . 
One never had any occasion to prove his facts , with these people all he had to do was to state them . 
It never occurred to anybody to doubt the statement . 
It is properer to Merlin's sort stump tail prophets , as we call them in the pro fession . 
Of course , I whet up now and then and flirt out a minor prophecy , but not often hardly ever , in fact . 
Indeed , yes , I mind it now . 
In truth , the law of prophecy doth contradict the likelihoods , most strangely making the difficult easy , and the easy difficult . 
It was a wise head . 
A peasant's cap was no safe disguise for it you could know it for a king's under a diving bell , if you could hear it work its intellect . 
I had a new trade now , and plenty of business in it . 
The king was as hungry to find out everything that was going to happen during the next thirteen centuries as if he were expecting to live in them . 
From that time out , I prophesied myself bald headed trying to supply the demand . 
I have done some indiscreet things in my day , but this thing of playing myself for a prophet was the worst . 
Still , it had its ameliorations . 
A prophet doesn't have to have any brains . 
They are good to have , of course , for the ordinary exigencies of life , but they are no use in professional work . 
It is the restfulest vocation there is . 
Every day a knight errant or so came along , and the sight of them fired the king's martial spirit every time . 
I was so pale I couldn't think for a moment then I got softly and carefully up and unstrapped my knapsack . 
I had that dynamite bomb in it , done up in wool in a box . 
Yet I must either throw it away or think up some safe way to get along with its society . 
I got it out and slipped it into my scrip , and just then here came a couple of knights . 
He supposed they would turn aside . 
The king was in a flaming fury , and launched out his challenge and epithets with a most royal vigor . 
The knights were some little distance by now . 
They halted , greatly surprised , and turned in their saddles and looked back , as if wondering if it might be worth while to bother with such scum as we . 
Then they wheeled and started for us . 
Not a moment must be lost . 
I got it out of the nineteenth century where they know how . 
I was seventy yards off , then , and scrambling up a great bowlder at the roadside . 
Yes , it was a neat thing , very neat and pretty to see . 
It resembled a steamboat explosion on the Mis sissippi and during the next fifteen minutes we stood under a steady drizzle of microscopic fragments of knights and hardware and horse flesh . 
I say we , for the king joined the audience , of course , as soon as he had got his breath again . 
But I explained it to the king myself . 
I said it was done with a dynamite bomb , This information did him no damage , because it left him as intelligent as he was before . 
However , it was a noble miracle , in his eyes , and was another settler for Merlin . 
I thought it well enough to explain that this was a miracle of so rare a sort that it couldn't be done except when the atmospheric conditions were just right . 
Otherwise he would be encoring it every time we had a good sub ject , and that would be inconvenient , because I hadn't any more bombs along . 
Your soldierly stride , your lordly port these will not do . 
You stand too straight , your looks are too high , too confident . 
It is the sordid cares of the lowly born that do these things . 
Pray try to walk like this . 
The king took careful note , and then tried an imitation . 
Chin a little lower , please there , very good . 
Eyes too high pray don't look at the horizon , look at the ground , ten steps in front of you . 
Ah that is better , that is very good . 
Wait , please you betray too much vigor , too much decision you want more of a shamble . 
Look at me , please this is what I mean . 
Now you are get ting it that is the idea at least , it sort of approaches it . 
Yes , that is pretty fair . 
BUT ! There is a great big something wanting , I don't quite know what it is . 
Please walk thirty yards , so that I can get a perspective on the thing . 
Do it again , please . 
NOW I think I begin to see what it is . 
Yes , I've struck it . 
You see , the genuine spirit lessness is wanting that's what's the trouble . 
It's all AMATUEUR mechanical details all right , almost to a hair everything about the delusion perfect , except that it don't delude . 
What , then , must one do , to prevail ? Let me think . 
I can't seem to quite get at it . 
In fact , there isn't anything that can right the matter but practice . 
It will be well to move a little off the road and put in the whole day drilling you , sire . 
Proceed , please accost the head of the house . 
The king unconsciously straightened up like a monu ment , and said , with frozen austerity Varlet , bring a seat and serve to me what cheer ye have . 
Ah , your grace , that is not well done . 
In what lacketh it ? These people do not call EACH OTHER varlets . 
Nay , is that true ? Yes only those above them call them so . 
Then must I try again . 
I will call him villein . 
No no for he may be a freeman . 
Then peradventure I should call him goodman . 
That would answer , your grace , but it would be still better if you said friend , or brother . 
Brother ! to dirt like that ? Ah , but WE are pretending to be dirt like that , too . 
Brother , bring a seat , and thereto what cheer ye have , withal . 
Not quite , not wholly right . 
You have asked for one , not US for one , not both food for one , a seat for one . 
The king looked puzzled he wasn't a very heavy weight , intellectually . 
His head was an hour glass it could stow an idea , but it had to do it a grain at a time , not the whole idea at once . 
And there is even yet a detail that needs correct ing . 
Please walk again , my liege . 
There it is better it is the best yet but not perfect . 
The shoulders have known no ignobler burden than iron mail , and they will not stoop . 
Give me , then , the bag . 
I will learn the spirit that goeth with burdens that have not honor . 
Nay , but me no buts , offer me no objections . 
I will have the thing . 
Strap it upon my back . 
He was complete now with that knapsack on , and looked as little like a king as any man I had ever seen . 
But it was an obstinate pair of shoulders they could not seem to learn the trick of stooping with any sort of deceptive naturalness . 
I drilled him as represent ing in turn all sorts of people out of luck and suffering dire privations and misfortunes . 
But lord , it was only just words , words they meant nothing in the world to him , I might just as well have whistled . 
Words realize nothing , vivify nothing to you , unless you have suffered in your own person the thing which the words try to describe . 
Why , they really think that , you know , because they know all about the one , but haven't tried the other . 
Intellectual work is misnamed it is a pleasure , a dissipation , and is its own highest reward . 
And it's also the very law of those transparent swindles , trans missible nobility and kingship . 
THE SMALLPOX HUT WHEN we arrived at that hut at mid afternoon , we saw no signs of life about it . 
The field near by had been denuded of its crop some time before , and had a skinned look , so exhaustively had it been har vested and gleaned . 
Fences , sheds , everything had a ruined look , and were eloquent of poverty . 
No animal was around anywhere , no living thing in sight . 
The stillness was awful , it was like the stillness of death . 
The cabin was a one story one , whose thatch was black with age , and ragged from lack of repair . 
The door stood a trifle ajar . 
We approached it stealthily on tiptoe and at half breath for that is the way one's feeling makes him do , at such a time . 
I pushed the door softly open and looked in . 
I made out some dim forms , and a woman started up from the ground and stared at me , as one does who is wakened from sleep . 
Presently she found her voice Have mercy ! she pleaded . 
All is taken , nothing is left . 
I have not come to take anything , poor woman . 
You are not a priest ? No. Nor come not from the lord of the manor ? No , I am a stranger . 
Let me come in and help you you are sick and in trouble . 
I was better used to the dim light now . 
I could see her hollow eyes fixed upon me . 
I could see how emaciated she was . 
I tell you the place is under the Church's ban . 
Save yourself and go , before some straggler see thee here , and report it . 
Give yourself no trouble about me I don't care anything for the Church's curse . 
Now all good spirits if there be any such bless thee for that word . 
Leave us , thou brave , good stranger , and take with thee such whole and sincere blessing as them that be accursed can give . 
But before this I had picked up a wooden bowl and was rushing past the king on my way to the brook . 
It was ten yards away . 
When I got back and entered , the king was within , and was opening the shutter that closed the window hole , to let in air and light . 
The place was full of a foul stench . 
I put the bowl to the woman's lips , and as she gripped it with her eager talons the shutter came open and a strong light flooded her face . 
Of a truth I shall remain and likewise help . 
I whispered again King , it must not be . 
Ye mean well , and ye speak not unwisely . 
But it were shame that a king should know fear , and shame that belted knight should withhold his hand where be such as need succor . 
Peace , I will not go . 
It is you who must go . 
It was a desperate place for him to be in , and might cost him his life , but it was no use to argue with him . 
If he considered his knightly honor at stake here , that was the end of argument he would stay , and nothing could prevent it I was aware of that . 
And so I dropped the subject . 
Abide , said the king , and give the woman to eat . 
And he put down the knapsack . 
I turned to start , but the king had already started . 
He halted , and looked down upon a man who lay in a dim light , and had not noticed us thus far , or spoken . 
Is it your husband ? the king asked . 
Is he asleep ? God be thanked for that one charity , yes these three hours . 
Where shall I pay to the full , my grati tude ! for my heart is bursting with it for that sleep he sleepeth now . 
I said We will be careful . 
We will not wake him . 
Ah , no , that ye will not , for he is dead . 
Dead ? Yes , what triumph it is to know it ! None can harm him , none insult him more . 
He is in heaven now , and happy or if not there , he bides in hell and is content for in that place he will find neither abbot nor yet bishop . 
We were boy and girl together we were man and wife these five and twenty years , and never separated till this day . 
Think how long that is to love and suffer together . 
There was a slight noise from the direction of the dim corner where the ladder was . 
It was the king descending . 
I could see that he was bearing some thing in one arm , and assisting himself with the other . 
He came forward into the light upon his breast lay a slender girl of fifteen . 
She was but half conscious she was dying of smallpox . 
He was great now sublimely great . 
The mother hung over her , kissing her , petting her , and imploring her to speak , but the lips only moved and no sound came . 
I snatched my liquor flask from my knapsack , but the woman forbade me , and said No she does not suffer it is better so . 
It might bring her back to life . 
None that be so good and kind as ye are would do her that cruel hurt . 
I would not change it . 
How rich is this day in happiness ! Ah , my Annis , thou shalt join thy sister soon thou'rt on thy way , and these be merciful friends that will not hinder . 
I saw tears well from the king's eyes , and trickle down his face . 
The king winced under this accidental home shot , but kept still he was learning his part and he was playing it well , too , for a pretty dull beginner . 
I struck up a diversion . 
I offered the woman food and liquor , but she refused both . 
She would allow noth ing to come between her and the release of death . 
Then I slipped away and brought the dead child from aloft , and laid it by her . 
This broke her down again , and there was another scene that was full of heart break . 
By and by I made another diversion , and beguiled her to sketch her story . 
Ye know it well yourselves , having suffered it for truly none of our condition in Britain escape it . 
It is the old , weary tale . 
We fought and struggled and succeeded meaning by success , that we lived and did not die more than that is not to be claimed . 
No troubles came that we could not outlive , till this year brought them then came they all at once , as one might say , and overwhelmed us . 
None denieth that , indeed an the law mean any thing , what is the lord's is his , and what is mine is his also . 
Our farm was ours by lease , therefore 'twas likewise his , to do with it as he would . 
Some little time ago , three of those trees were found hewn down . 
Our three grown sons ran frightened to report the crime . 
Well , in his lordship's dungeon there they lie , who saith there shall they lie and rot till they confess . 
They have naught to confess , being innocent , where fore there will they remain until they die . 
Ye know that right well , I ween . 
All this time our own crop was perishing through neg lect and so both the priest and his lordship fined us because their shares of it were suffering through damage . 
It was ten days ago . 
He carried my trespass to his betters I was stubborn wherefore , presently upon my head and upon all heads that were dear to me , fell the curse of Rome . 
Since that day we are avoided , shunned with horror . 
None has come near this hut to know whether we live or not . 
The rest of us were taken down . 
Then I roused me and got up , as wife and mother will . 
It was little they could have eaten in any case it was less than little they had to eat . 
But there was water , and I gave them that . 
How they craved it ! and how they blessed it ! But the end came yesterday my strength broke down . 
Yesterday was the last time I ever saw my husband and this youngest child alive . 
She had recognized the death rattle . 
THE TRAGEDY OF THE MANOR HOUSE AT midnight all was over , and we sat in the presence of four corpses . 
We covered them with such rags as we could find , and started away , fastening the door behind us . 
Their home must be these people's grave , for they could not have Christian burial , or be admitted to consecrated ground . 
We had not moved four steps when I caught a sound as of footsteps upon gravel . 
My heart flew to my throat . 
We must not be seen coming from that house . 
I plucked at the king's robe and we drew back and took shelter behind the corner of the cabin . 
Now we are safe , I said , but it was a close call so to speak . 
If the night had been lighter he might have seen us , no doubt , he seemed to be so near . 
Mayhap it is but a beast and not a man at all . 
But man or beast , it will be wise to stay here a minute and let it get by and out of the way . 
Hark ! It cometh hither . 
The step was coming toward us straight toward the hut . 
It must be a beast , then , and we might as well have saved our trepidation . 
I was going to step out , but the king laid his hand upon my arm . 
There was a moment of silence , then we heard a soft knock on the cabin door . 
Mother ! father ! I drew the king toward the other end of the hut and whispered Come now we can get to the road . 
The king hesitated , was going to demur but just then we heard the door give way , and knew that those desolate men were in the presence of their dead . 
Come , my liege ! in a moment they will strike a light , and then will follow that which it would break your heart to hear . 
He did not hesitate this time . 
The moment we were in the road I ran and after a moment he threw dig nity aside and followed . 
Oh , no , I make no doubt they escaped . 
That is my trouble I have a fear that this is so , and your suspicion doth confirm it , you having the same fear . 
I should not call it by that name though . 
I do suspect that they escaped , but if they did , I am not sorry , certainly . 
He could see only one side of it . 
I worked more than half an hour before I got him to change the subject and even then an outside matter did it for me . 
This was a something which caught our eyes as we struck the summit of a small hill a red glow , a good way off . 
So they managed to damage those in dustries more or less , but I got even on my Accident business . 
We started down the hill in its direction , and the winding road plunged us at once into almost solid darkness darkness that was packed and crammed in between two tall forest walls . 
We groped along down for half a mile , perhaps , that murmur growing more and more distinct all the time . 
the coming storm threatening more and more , with now and then a little shiver of wind , a faint show of lightning , and dull grumblings of distant thunder . 
I was in the lead . 
It was a grewsome sight . 
Straightway there was an ear splitting explosion of thunder , and the bottom of heaven fell out the rain poured down in a deluge . 
One moment the man would be hanging before me in an intense light , and the next he was blotted out again in the darkness . 
I told the king we must cut him down . 
The king at once objected . 
If he hanged himself , he was willing to lose him property to his lord so let him be . 
If others hanged him , belike they had the right let him hang . 
But But me no buts , but even leave him as he is . 
And for yet another reason . 
When the lightning cometh again there , look abroad . 
Two others hanging , within fifty yards of us ! It is not weather meet for doing useless courtesies unto dead folk . 
They are past thanking you . 
Come it is unprofitable to tarry here . 
There was reason in what he said , so we moved on . 
Within the next mile we counted six more hanging forms by the blaze of the lightning , and altogether it was a grisly excursion . 
That murmur was a murmur no longer , it was a roar a roar of men's voices . 
A man came flying by now , dimly through the darkness , and other men chasing him . 
Pres ently another case of the kind occurred , and then an other and another . 
I warned the king that this was not a safe place for strangers . 
We would better get away from the light , until matters should improve . 
We stepped back a little , and hid in the edge of the wood . 
From this hiding place we saw both men and women hunted by the mob . 
The fearful work went on until nearly dawn . 
Then , the fire being out and the storm spent , the voices and flying footsteps presently ceased , and darkness and stillness reigned again . 
We ventured out , and hurried cautiously away and although we were worn out and sleepy , we kept on until we had put this place some miles behind us . 
Then we asked hospitality at the hut of a charcoal burner , and got what was to be had . 
A woman was up and about , but the man was still asleep , on a straw shake down , on the clay floor . 
The woman seemed uneasy until I explained that we were travelers and had lost our way and been wandering in the woods all night . 
She became talkative , then , and asked if we had heard of the terrible goings on at the manor house of Abblasoure . 
Yes , we had heard of them , but what we wanted now was rest and sleep . 
The king broke in Sell us the house and take yourselves away , for we be perilous company , being late come from people that died of the Spotted Death . 
It was good of him , but unnecessary . 
One of the commonest decorations of the nation was the waffle iron face . 
I had early noticed that the woman and her husband were both so decorated . 
It gave her a large respect for us , and she strained the lean possibilities of her hovel to the utmost to make us comfortable . 
And also in variety it consisted solely of onions , salt , and the national black bread made out of horse feed . 
The woman told us about the affair of the even ing before . 
At ten or eleven at night , when everybody was in bed , the manor house burst into flames . 
The country side swarmed to the rescue , and the family were saved , with one exception , the master . 
Everybody was frantic over this loss , and two brave yeomen sacrificed their lives in ransacking the burning house seeking that valuable personage . 
But after a while he was found what was left of him which was his corpse . 
It was in a copse three hundred yards away , bound , gagged , stabbed in a dozen places . 
A suspicion was enough my lord's liveried retainers proclaimed an instant crusade against these people , and were promptly joined by the community in general . 
The woman's husband had been active with the mob , and had not returned home until nearly dawn . 
He was gone now to find out what the general result had been . 
While we were still talking he came back from his quest . 
His report was revolting enough . 
Eighteen persons hanged or butch ered , and two yeomen and thirteen prisoners lost in the fire . 
And how many prisoners were there altogether in the vaults ? Thirteen . 
Then every one of them was lost ? Yes , all . 
Then you mean that nobody DID unlock them ? None went near them , either to lock or unlock . 
I was just expecting he would come out with that . 
I answered the questions myself , and narrowly watched the effects produced . 
The king did not notice the change , and I was glad of that . 
I worked the conversation around toward other details of the night's proceedings , and noted that these people were relieved to have it take that direction . 
The painful thing observable about all this business was the alacrity with which this oppressed community had turned their cruel hands against their own class in the interest of the common oppressor . 
This was depressing to a man with the dream of a republic in his head . 
Well , as it turned out , this charcoal burner was just the twin of the Southern poor white of the far future . 
The king presently showed impatience , and said An ye prattle here all the day , justice will mis carry . 
Think ye the criminals will abide in their father's house ? They are fleeing , they are not wait ing . 
You should look to it that a party of horse be set upon their track . 
The woman paled slightly , but quite perceptibly , and the man looked flustered and irresolute . 
I said Come , friend , I will walk a little way with you , and explain which direction I think they would try to take . 
The last remark was for the king to quiet him . 
On the road the man pulled his resolution together , and began the march with a steady gait , but there was no eagerness in it . 
By and by I said What relation were these men to you cousins ? He turned as white as his layer of charcoal would let him , and stopped , trembling . 
Ah , my God , how know ye that ? I didn't know it it was a chance guess . 
Poor lads , they are lost . 
And good lads they were , too . 
Were you actually going yonder to tell on them ? He didn't quite know how to take that but he said , hesitatingly Ye s . 
Then I think you are a damned scoundrel ! It made him as glad as if I had called him an angel . 
Say the good words again , brother ! for surely ye mean that ye would not betray me an I failed of my duty . 
Duty ? There is no duty in the matter , except the duty to keep still and let those men get away . 
They've done a righteous deed . 
He looked pleased pleased , and touched with ap prehension at the same time . 
You would not tell any body I said them ? I ? I would be drawn asunder by wild horses first . 
Well , then , let me say my say . 
I have no fears of your repeating it . 
I think devil's work has been done last night upon those innocent poor people . 
That old baron got only what he deserved . 
If I had my way . 
all his kind should have the same luck . 
And I will say my say now , and ye may report it if ye be so minded . 
I helped to hang my neighbors for that it were peril to my own life to show lack of zeal in the master's cause the others helped for none other reason . 
All rejoice to day that he is dead , but all do go about seemingly sorrowing , and shedding the hypocrite's tear , for in that lies safety . 
I have said the words , I have said the words ! the only ones that have ever tasted good in my mouth , and the reward of that taste is sufficient . 
Lead on , an ye will , be it even to the scaffold , for I am ready . 
There it was , you see . 
A man is a man , at bottom . 
Whole ages of abuse and oppression cannot crush the manhood clear out of him . 
Whoever thinks it a mis take is himself mistaken . 
We should see certain things yet , let us hope and believe . 
Yes , there was no occasion to give up my dream yet a while . 
MARCO WE strolled along in a sufficiently indolent fashion now , and talked . 
Well , there are times when one would like to hang the whole human race and finish the farce . 
Presently we struck an incident . 
A small mob of half naked boys and girls came tearing out of the woods , scared and shrieking . 
The eldest among them were not more than twelve or fourteen years old . 
They implored help , but they were so beside them selves that we couldn't make out what the matter was . 
We rescued him , and fetched him around . 
It was not a dull excursion for me . 
I managed to put in the time very well . 
I made various acquaintance ships , and in my quality of stranger was able to ask as many questions as I wanted to . 
A thing which natur ally interested me , as a statesman , was the matter of wages . 
I picked up what I could under that head during the afternoon . 
I could remember how it was in the time of our great civil war in the nineteenth cen tury . 
In the North a carpenter got three dollars a day , gold valuation in the South he got fifty pay able in Confederate shinplasters worth a dollar a bushel . 
In the North a suit of overalls cost three dollars a day's wages in the South it cost seventy five which was two days' wages . 
Other things were in proportion . 
Consequently , wages were twice as high in the North as they were in the South , because the one wage had that much more purchasing power than the other had . 
We were progressing , that was sure . 
I got to know several master mechanics , but about the most interesting fellow among them was the black smith , Dowley . 
He was a live man and a brisk talker , and had two journeymen and three apprentices , and was doing a raging business . 
In fact , he was getting rich , hand over fist , and was vastly respected . 
Marco was very proud of having such a man for a friend . 
Dowley and I fraternized at once I had had just such picked men , splendid fellows , under me in the Colt Arms Factory . 
I was bound to see more of him , so I invited him to come out to Marco's Sunday , and dine with us . 
Marco was appalled , and held his breath and when the grandee accepted , he was so grateful that he almost forgot to be astonished at the condescension . 
But I knew what was the matter with him it was the expense . 
He saw ruin before him he judged that his financial days were numbered . 
However , on our way to invite the others , I said You must allow me to have these friends come and you must also allow me to pay the costs . 
His face cleared , and he said with spirit But not all of it , not all of it . 
Ye cannot well bear a burden like to this alone . 
I stopped him , and said Now let's understand each other on the spot , old friend . 
I am only a farm bailiff , it is true but I am not poor , nevertheless . 
I have been very fortunate this year you would be astonished to know how I have thriven . 
I could see myself rise a foot at a time in Marco's estimation , and when I fetched out those last words I was become a very tower for style and altitude . 
So you see , you must let me have my way . 
You can't contribute a cent to this orgy , that's SETTLED . 
It's grand and good of you No , it isn't . 
And so we'll shop around and get up this layout now , and don't you worry about the expense . 
I'm one of the worst spendthrifts that ever was born . 
Why , do you know , sometimes in a single week I spend but never mind about that you'd never believe it anyway . 
Well , his idea was , a new outfit of clothes for you both Oh , it is wastefulness ! It may not be , brother , it may not be . 
You ought to cure that , Marco it isn't good form , you know , and it will grow on you if you don't check it . 
Yes , we'll step in here now and price this man's stuff and don't forget to remember to not let on to Jones that you know he had anything to do with it . 
You can't think how curiously sensitive and proud he is . 
This was the best store we had come across yet it had everything in it , in small quantities , from anvils and drygoods all the way down to fish and pinchbeck jewelry . 
I concluded I would bunch my whole invoice right here , and not go pricing around any more . 
So I got rid of Marco , by sending him off to invite the mason and the wheelwright , which left the field free to me . 
For I never care to do a thing in a quiet way it's got to be theatrical or I don't take any interest in it . 
He could , and was proud to show that he could . 
He said he had been educated by a priest , and could both read and write . 
He ran it through , and remarked with satisfaction that it was a pretty heavy bill . 
Well , and so it was , for a little concern like that . 
I was not only providing a swell dinner , but some odds and ends of extras . 
He said I could depend upon his promptness and exacti tude , it was the rule of the house . 
He also observed that he would throw in a couple of miller guns for the Marcos gratis that everybody was using them now . 
He had a mighty opinion of that clever device . 
I said And please fill them up to the middle mark , too and add that to the bill . 
He would , with pleasure . 
He filled them , and I took them with me . 
We furnished them for nothing . 
The king had hardly missed us when we got back at nightfall . 
DOWLEY'S HUMILIATION WELL , when that cargo arrived toward sunset , Sat urday afternoon , I had my hands full to keep the Marcos from fainting . 
They were sure Jones and I were ruined past help , and they blamed themselves as accessories to this bankruptcy . 
I instructed the Marcos to keep quiet about this sumptuousness , so as to give me a chance to surprise the guests and show off a little . 
Then their pleasure not to say delirium was so fresh and novel and in spiring that the sight of it paid me well for the inter ruptions which my sleep had suffered . 
The king had slept just as usual like the dead . 
The Marcos could not thank him for their clothes , that being forbidden but they tried every way they could think of to make him see how grateful they were . 
Which all went for nothing he didn't notice any change . 
It turned out to be one of those rich and rare fall days which is just a June day toned down to a degree where it is heaven to be out of doors . 
Toward noon the guests arrived , and we assembled under a great tree and were soon as sociable as old acquaintances . 
Even the king's reserve melted a little , though it was some little trouble to him to adjust himself to the name of Jones along at first . 
Self made man , you know . 
They know how to talk . 
They do deserve more credit than any other breed of men , yes , that is true and they are among the very first to find it out , too . 
He got no new clothing during his apprenticeship , but on his graduation day his master tricked him out in spang new tow linens and made him feel unspeakably rich and fine . 
I remember me of that day ! the wheelwright sang out , with enthusiasm . 
And I likewise ! cried the mason . 
I would not believe they were thine own in faith I could not . 
Nor other ! shouted Dowley , with sparkling eyes . 
I was like to lose my character , the neighbors wend ing I had mayhap been stealing . 
It was a great day , a great day one forgetteth not days like that . 
And in time Dowley succeeded to the business and married the daughter . 
And now consider what is come to pass , said he , impressively . 
Two times in every month there is fresh meat upon my table . 
He made a pause here , to let that fact sink home , then added and eight times salt meat . 
It is even true , said the wheelwright , with bated breath . 
I know it of mine own knowledge , said the mason , in the same reverent fashion . 
On my table appeareth white bread every Sunday in the year , added the master smith , with solemnity . 
I leave it to your own consciences , friends , if this is not also true ? By my head , yes , cried the mason . 
I can testify it and I do , said the wheelwright . 
And as to furniture , ye shall say yourselves what mine equipment is . 
He waved his hand in fine gesture of granting frank and unhampered freedom of speech , and added Speak as ye are moved speak as ye would speak an I were not here . 
Ye have five stools , and of the sweetest workman ship at that , albeit your family is but three , said the wheelwright , with deep respect . 
And six wooden goblets , and six platters of wood and two of pewter to cat and drink from withal , said the mason , impressively . 
The dame brought out the table now , and set it under the tree . 
It caused a visible stir of surprise , it being brand new and a sumptuous article of deal . 
That was a notch above even the black smith's domestic grandeurs , and it hit him hard you could see it . 
But Marco was in Paradise you could see that , too . 
Then the dame brought two fine new stools whew ! that was a sensation it was visible in the eyes of every guest . 
Then she brought two more as calmly as she could . 
Sensation again with awed murmurs . 
Again she brought two walking on air , she was so proud . 
The guests were petrified , and the mason muttered There is that about earthly pomps which doth ever move to reverence . 
So there were more yet ! It was a fine effect . 
I couldn't have played the hand better myself . 
Take it by and large , that spread laid everything far and away in the shade that ever that crowd had seen before . 
That's all right , I said , indifferently . 
What is the amount ? give us the items . 
dozen pints beer , in the wood . 
, men's suits and underwear . 
, stuff and linsey woolsey gown and underwear . 
, miller guns , loaded . 
There was a pale and awful silence . 
Not a nostril betrayed the passage of breath . 
Is that all ? I asked , in a voice of the most per fect calmness . 
All , fair sir , save that certain matters of light mo ment are placed together under a head hight sundries . 
Ah , you should have seen them stare ! The clerk was astonished and charmed . 
There was an amazed murmur to this effect Verily this being is MADE of money ! He throweth it away even as if it were dirt . 
The blacksmith was a crushed man . 
The clerk took his money and reeled away drunk with fortune . 
Ah , well , it was immense yes , it was a daisy . 
I don't know that I ever put a situation together better , or got happier spectacular effects out of the materials available . 
The blacksmith well , he was simply mashed . 
Land ! I wouldn't have felt what that man was feeling , for anything in the world . 
Yes , Dowley was a good deal wilted , and shrunk up and collapsed he had the aspect of a bladder balloon that's been stepped on by a cow . 
SIXTH CENTURY POLITICAL ECONOMY HOWEVER , I made a dead set at him , and before the first third of the dinner was reached , I had him happy again . 
It was easy to do in a country of ranks and castes . 
You prove your superiority over him in station , or rank , or fortune , and that's the end of it he knuckles down . 
You can't insult him after that . 
I had the smith's reverence now , because I was apparently immensely prosperous and rich I could have had his adoration if I had had some little gimcrack title of nobility . 
This was to remain so , as long as England should exist in the earth . 
At a first glance , things appeared to be exceeding prosperous in this little tributary kingdom whose lord was King Bagdemagus as compared with the state of things in my own region . 
They had the protection system in full force here , whereas we were working along down toward free trade , by easy stages , and were now about half way . 
Before long , Dowley and I were doing all the talking , the others hungrily listening . 
The smith's face beamed with joy . 
I've paid a hundred and fifteen my self , within the week . 
'Rah for protection to Sheol with free trade ! And his face shone upon the company like a sun burst . 
But I didn't scare at all . 
Here is the way I started in on him . 
I asked What do you pay a pound for salt ? A hundred milrays . 
What do you pay for beef and mutton when you buy it ? That was a neat hit it made the color come . 
It varieth somewhat , but not much one may say milrays the pound . 
What do you pay for eggs ? Fifty milrays the dozen . 
What do you pay for beer ? It costeth us milrays the pint . 
We get it for bottles for a cent . 
What do you pay for wheat ? At the rate of milrays the bushel . 
What do you pay for a man's tow linen suit ? Thirteen cents . 
What do you pay for a stuff gown for the wife of the laborer or the mechanic ? We pay . 
Well , observe the difference you pay eight cents and four mills , we pay only four cents . 
I prepared now to sock it to him . 
What's become of those noble high wages of yours ? I seem to have knocked the stuffing all out of them , it appears to me . 
I could have shot him , from sheer vexation . 
With cloudy eye and a struggling in tellect he fetched this out Marry , I seem not to understand . 
Hear him ! They are the DOUBLE ye have con fessed it yourself . 
Yes yes , I don't deny that at all . 
The thing is , how much can you BUY with your wages ? that's the idea . 
He looked dazed , and said , despairingly Verily , I cannot make it out . 
Ye've just said ours are the higher , and with the same breath ye take it back . 
Oh , great Scott , isn't it possible to get such a simple thing through your head ? Now look here let me illustrate . 
We pay four cents for a woman's stuff gown , you pay . 
, which is four mills more than DOUBLE . 
What do you allow a laboring woman who works on a farm ? Two mills a day . 
For instance , it takes your woman days to earn her gown , at mills a day weeks' work but ours earns hers in forty days two days SHORT of weeks . 
Your woman has a gown , and her whole seven weeks wages are gone ours has a gown , and two days' wages left , to buy something else with . 
There NOW you understand it ! He looked well , he merely looked dubious , it's the most I can say so did the others . 
I waited to let the thing work . 
Dowley spoke at last and be trayed the fact that he actually hadn't gotten away from his rooted and grounded superstitions yet . 
He said , with a trifle of hesitancy But but ye cannot fail to grant that two mills a day is better than one . 
Shucks ! Well , of course , I hated to give it up . 
So I chanced another flyer Let us suppose a case . 
The lot will cost him cents . 
It takes him working days to earn the money weeks and days . 
But , alas ! it didn't crush . 
No , I had to give it up . 
What those people valued was HIGH WAGES it didn't seem to be a matter of any consequence to them whether the high wages would buy anything or not . 
I proved to them that in a quarter of a century their wages had advanced but per cent . 
, while the cost of living had gone up and that with us , in a shorter time , wages had ad vanced per cent . 
while the cost of living had gone steadily down . 
But it didn't do any good . 
Nothing could unseat their strange beliefs . 
Well , I was smarting under a sense of defeat . 
Un deserved defeat , but what of that ? That didn't soften the smart any . 
Well , that is what I did . 
I am not trying to justify it I'm only saying that I was mad , and ANYBODY would have done it . 
That is the way I went for brother Dowley . 
There are written laws they perish but there are also unwritten laws THEY are eternal . 
Take the un written law of wages it says they've got to advance , little by little , straight through the centuries . 
And notice how it works . 
We know what wages are now , here and there and yonder we strike an average , and say that's the wages of to day . 
Do we stop there ? No. We stop looking backward we face around and apply the law to the future . 
My friends , I can tell you what people's wages are going to be at any date in the future you want to know , for hundreds and hundreds of years . 
What , goodman , what ! Yes . 
In seven hundred years wages will have risen to six times what they are now , here in your region , and farm hands will be allowed cents a day , and mechanics . 
I would't I might die now and live then ! inter rupted Smug , the wheelwright , with a fine avaricious glow in his eye . 
And that isn't all they'll get their board besides such as it is it won't bloat them . 
Then the coal burner said prayerfully Might I but live to see it ! It is the income of an earl ! said Smug . 
An earl , say ye ? said Dowley ye could say more than that and speak no lie there's no earl in the realm of Bagdemagus that hath an income like to that . 
Income of an earl mf ! it's the income of an angel ! Now , then , that is what is going to happen as re gards wages . 
In that remote day , that man will earn , with ONE week's work , that bill of goods which it takes you upwards of FIFTY weeks to earn now . 
Some other pretty surprising things are going to happen , too . 
Ye may say , in general terms , it is the magistrate that fixes the wages . 
The masters are these nobles , rich men , the prosperous generally . 
These few , who do no work , determine what pay the vast hive shall have who DO work . 
You see ? They're a 'combine' a trade union , to coin a new phrase who band themselves together to force their lowly brother to take what they choose to give . 
Ah , he will have a long and bitter account of wrong and humiliation to settle . 
Do ye believe That he actually will help to fix his own wages ? Yes , indeed . 
And he will be strong and able , then . 
Brave times , brave times , of a truth ! sneered the prosperous smith . 
Oh , and there's another detail . 
In that day , a master may hire a man for only just one day , or one week , or one month at a time , if he wants to . 
Moreover , a magistrate won't be able to force a man to work for a master a whole year on a stretch whether the man wants to or not . 
Will there be NO law or sense in that day ? Both of them , Dowley . 
In that day a man will be his own property , not the property of magistrate and master . 
And he can leave town whenever he wants to , if the wages don't suit him ! and they can't put him in the pillory for it . 
Perdition catch such an age ! shouted Dowley , in strong indignation . 
An age of dogs , an age barren of reverence for superiors and respect for authority ! The pillory Oh , wait , brother say no good word for that in stitution . 
I think the pillory ought to be abolished . 
Why ? Well , I'll tell you why . 
I had scored my first point ! For the first time , the smith wasn't up and ready . 
You don't answer , brother . 
You were about to glorify the pillory a while ago , and shed some pity on a future age that isn't going to use it . 
I think the pillory ought to be abolished . 
They begin by clodding him and they laugh themselves to pieces to see him try to dodge one clod and get hit with another ? Yes . 
Then they throw dead cats at him , don't they ? Yes . 
And if he is unpopular he can depend on DYING , right there in the stocks , can't he ? He surely can ! One may not deny it . 
I judged he was hit . 
But he didn't betray it by any spoken word . 
As for the others , they spoke out plainly , and with strong feeling . 
Well , to change the subject for I think I've established my point that the stocks ought to be abol ished . 
I think some of our laws are pretty unfair . 
Ah , but that would serve you but right , said Dowley , for you MUST inform . 
Well , all right , let it go , since you vote me down . 
But there's one thing which certainly isn't fair . 
The magistrate fixes a mechanic's wage at cent a day , for instance . 
In fact , as fine as any I ever pro duced , with so little time to work it up in . 
But I saw in a moment that I had overdone the thing a little . 
I was expecting to scare them , but I wasn't expecting to scare them to death . 
They were mighty near it , though . 
Pale , shaky , dumb , pitiful ? Why , they weren't any better than so many dead men . 
Appeal to ME to be gentle , to be fair , to be generous ? Of course , they wanted to , but they couldn't dare . 
THE YANKEE AND THE KING SOLD AS SLAVES WELL , what had I better do ? Nothing in a hurry , sure . 
I must get up a diversion anything to employ me while I could think , and while these poor fellows could have a chance to come to life again . 
So I took it from him and proposed to explain its mystery . 
Mystery ! a simple little thing like that and yet it was mysterious enough , for that race and that age . 
I never saw such an awkward people , with machin ery you see , they were totally unused to it . 
The miller gun was a little double barreled tube of tough ened glass , with a neat little trick of a spring to it , which upon pressure would let a shot escape . 
But the shot wouldn't hurt anybody , it would only drop into your hand . 
In the gun were two sizes wee mustard seed shot , and another sort that were several times larger . 
The mustard seed shot represented milrays , the larger ones mills . 
I made them of several sizes one size so large that it would carry the equivalent of a dollar . 
Paying the shot soon came to be a common phrase . 
Yes , and I knew it would still be passing men's lips , away down in the nineteenth cen tury , yet none would suspect how and when it origi nated . 
The king joined us , about this time , mightily re freshed by his nap , and feeling good . 
He began , straight off , in the most innocently artful , and transparent , and lubberly way , to lead up to the subject of agriculture . 
The cold sweat broke out all over me . 
But of course I couldn't do it . 
Whisper to him ? It would look as if we were conspiring . 
So I had to sit there and look calm and pleasant while the king stood over that dynamite mine and mooned along about his damned onions and things . 
I was in miserable apprehension I sat upon thorns . 
What joy flamed up in the king's eye ! He might be lame in agriculture , but this kind of thing was just in his line . 
He had been fasting long , he was hungry for a fight . 
He hit the blacksmith a crack under the jaw that lifted him clear off his feet and stretched him flat on his back . 
George for Britain ! and he downed the wheelwright . 
The mason was big , but I laid him out like nothing . 
Well , while they were gradually playing out , it sud denly occurred to me to wonder what had become of Marco . 
I looked around he was nowhere to be seen . 
Oh , but this was ominous ! I pulled the king's sleeve , and we glided away and rushed for the hut . 
No Marco there , no Phyllis there ! They had gone to the road for help , sure . 
I told the king to give his heels wings , and I would explain later . 
Ah , but then came another sound dogs ! Yes , that was quite another matter . 
It magnified our contract we must find running water . 
We tore along at a good gait , and soon left the sounds far behind and modified to a murmur . 
We struck a stream and darted into it . 
For a while the sounds approached pretty fast . 
And then for another while they didn't . 
No doubt the dogs had found the place where we had entered the stream , and were now waltzing up and down the shores trying to pick up the trail again . 
When we were snugly lodged in the tree and cur tained with foliage , the king was satisfied , but I was doubtful . 
I believed we could crawl along a branch and get into the next tree , and I judged it worth while to try . 
We tried it , and made a success of it , though the king slipped , at the junction , and came near failing to connect . 
We got comfortable lodgment and satis factory concealment among the foliage , and then we had nothing to do but listen to the hunt . 
Presently we heard it coming and coming on the jump , too yes , and down both sides of the stream . 
Louder louder next minute it swelled swiftly up into a roar of shoutings , barkings , tramplings , and swept by like a cyclone . 
I was afraid that the overhanging branch would suggest something to them , said I , but I don't mind the disappointment . 
Come , my liege , it were well that we make good use of our time . 
Dark is coming on , presently . 
If we can cross the stream and get a good start , and borrow a couple of horses from somebody's pasture to use for a few hours , we shall be safe enough . 
We started down , and got nearly to the lowest limb , when we seemed to hear the hunt returning . 
Yes , said I , they're baffled , they've given it up , they're on their way home . 
We will climb back to our roost again , and let them go by . 
The king listened a moment and said They still search I wit the sign . 
We did best to abide . 
He knew more about hunting than I did . 
The noise approached steadily , but not with a rush . 
The king said They reason that we were advantaged by no par lous start of them , and being on foot are as yet no mighty way from where we took the water . 
Yes , sire , that is about it , I am afraid , though I was hoping better things . 
The noise drew nearer and nearer , and soon the van was drifting under us , on both sides of the water . 
Ye will do well to send a man up it . 
Marry , that we will do ! I was obliged to admire my cuteness in foreseeing this very thing and swapping trees to beat it . 
But , don't you know , there are some things that can beat smartness and foresight ? Awkwardness and stupidity can . 
He went for the wrong tree , which was , of course , the right one by mistake , and up he started . 
We remained still , and awaited developments . 
The peasant toiled his difficult way up . 
There was a wild outbreak of anger below , and the mob swarmed in from all around , and there we were treed , and prison ers . 
Another man started up the bridging bough was detected , and a volunteer started up the tree that furnished the bridge . 
The king ordered me to play Horatius and keep the bridge . 
For a while the enemy came thick and fast but no matter , the head man of each procession always got a buffet that dislodged him as soon as he came in reach . 
The king's spirits rose , his joy was limitless . 
He said that if nothing occurred to mar the prospect we should have a beautiful night , for on this line of tactics we could hold the tree against the whole country side . 
However , the mob soon came to that conclusion themselves wherefore they called off the assault and began to debate other plans . 
They had no weapons , but there were plenty of stones , and stones might answer . 
If they would but waste half an hour in stone throwing , the dark would come to our help . 
We were feeling very well satisfied . 
We could smile almost laugh . 
But we didn't which was just as well , for we should have been interrupted . 
Before the stones had been raging through the leaves and bouncing from the boughs fifteen minutes , we began to notice a smell . 
A couple of sniffs of it was enough of an explanation it was smoke ! Our game was up at last . 
When smoke invites you , you have to come . 
I got enough breath to say Proceed , my liege after you is manners . 
The king gasped Follow me down , and then back thyself against one side of the trunk , and leave me the other . 
Let each pile his dead according to his own fashion and taste . 
Then he descended , barking and coughing , and I followed . 
I struck the ground an instant after him we sprang to our appointed places , and began to give and take with all our might . 
The powwow and racket were prodigious it was a tempest of riot and con fusion and thick falling blows . 
The mob fell humbly back , like so many spaniels . 
They are strangers and unknown to any in this region and they be the most violent and bloodthirsty madmen that ever Peace ! Ye know not what ye say . 
Who are ye ? And whence are ye ? Explain . 
We are but peaceful strangers , sir , I said , and traveling upon our own concerns . 
We are from a far country , and unacquainted here . 
We have purposed no harm and yet but for your brave interference and protection these people would have killed us . 
As you have divined , sir , we are not mad neither are we violent or bloodthirsty . 
The shrieks and supplications presently died away in the distance , and soon the horsemen began to straggle back . 
Meantime the gentleman had been questioning us more closely , but had dug no particulars out of us . 
We were lavish of recognition of the service he was doing us , but we revealed nothing more than that we were friendless strangers from a far country . 
When the escort were all returned , the gentleman said to one of his servants Bring the led horses and mount these people . 
We were placed toward the rear , among the servants . 
We traveled pretty fast , and finally drew rein some time after dark at a roadside inn some ten or twelve miles from the scene of our troubles . 
My lord went immediately to his room , after ordering his supper , and we saw no more of him . 
At dawn in the morning we breakfasted and made ready to start . 
We could do nothing less than express our thanks and accept the offer . 
We loitered to such a degree that it was near the middle of the forenoon when we entered the market square of the town . 
It was the remnant of that old peregrinating band of slaves ! So they had been dragging their chains about , all this weary time . 
That poor husband was gone , and also many others and some few purchases had been added to the gang . 
The king was not interested , and wanted to move along , but I was absorbed , and full of pity . 
I could not take my eyes away from these worn and wasted wrecks of humanity . 
There they sat , grounded upon the ground , silent , uncomplaining , with bowed heads , a pathetic sight . 
And by hideous con trast , a redundant orator was making a speech to another gathering not thirty steps away , in fulsome laudation of our glorious British liberties ! I was boiling . 
I had forgotten I was a plebeian , I was remembering I was a man . 
A dozen of the rascal's servants sprang forward , and in a moment we were helpless , with our hands bound behind us . 
What proofs ? Proof that ye are freemen . 
Ah I remembered ! I came to myself I said nothing . 
But the king stormed out Thou'rt insane , man . 
It were better , and more in reason , that this thief and scoundrel here prove that we are NOT freemen . 
You see , he knew his own laws just as other people so often know the laws by words , not by effects . 
They take a MEANING , and get to be very vivid , when you come to apply them to yourself . 
All hands shook their heads and looked disap pointed some turned away , no longer interested . 
The orator said and this time in the tones of business , not of sentiment An ye do not know your country's laws , it were time ye learned them . 
Ye are strangers to us ye will not deny that . 
Ye may be freemen , we do not deny that but also ye may be slaves . 
The law is clear it doth not require the claimant to prove ye are slaves , it requireth you to prove ye are not . 
It would cost much time , and would unwarrantably inconveni ence your master MASTER , idiot ! stormed the king . 
I have no master , I myself am the m Silence , for God's sake ! I got the words out in time to stop the king . 
We were in trouble enough already it could not help us any to give these people the notion that we were lunatics . 
There is no use in stringing out the details . 
The earl put us up and sold us at auction . 
Well , that's the way we are made . 
Yes , we were sold at auction , like swine . 
The King of England brought seven dollars , and his prime minister nine whereas the king was easily worth twelve dollars and I as easily worth fifteen . 
If the earl had had wit enough to However , there is no occasion for my working my sympathies up on his account . 
Let him go , for the present I took his number , so to speak . 
The slave dealer bought us both , and hitched us onto that long chain of his , and we constituted the rear of his procession . 
Dear , dear , it only shows that there is nothing diviner about a king than there is about a tramp , after all . 
He is just a cheap and hollow artificiality when you don't know he is a king . 
But reveal his quality , and dear me it takes your very breath away to look at him . 
I reckon we are all fools . 
Born so , no doubt . 
A PITIFUL INCIDENT IT'S a world of surprises . 
The king brooded this was natural . 
Well , it stunned me so , when I first found it out , that I couldn't believe it it didn't seem natural . 
But as soon as my mental sight cleared and I got a right focus on it , I saw I was mistaken it WAS natural . 
But it was tender ground for me to argue on . 
In fact , I had to simply shirk argu ment and do the diplomatic instead . 
Yes , he tired me . 
Pity but style was marketable . 
At last this sort of remark produced an evil result . 
Our owner was a practical person and he perceived that this defect must be mended if he hoped to find a purchaser for the king . 
So he went to work to take the style out of his sacred majesty . 
I could have given the man some valuable advice , but I didn't you mustn't volunteer advice to a slave driver unless you want to damage the cause you are arguing for . 
Never mind the details it will save me trouble to let you imagine them . 
So he gave up at last , and left the king in possession of his style unimpaired . 
We had a rough time for a month , tramping to and fro in the earth , and suffering . 
And what Englishman was the most interested in the slavery question by that time ? His grace the king ! Yes from being the most indifferent , he was become the most interested . 
He was become the bitterest hater of the institution I had ever heard talk . 
I was ready and willing to get free now I hadn't wanted to get free any sooner . 
No , I cannot quite say that . 
I had wanted to , but I had not been willing to take desperate chances , and had always dissuaded the king from them . 
But now ah , it was a new atmosphere ! Liberty would be worth any cost that might be put upon it now . 
I set about a plan , and was straightway charmed with it . 
It would require time , yes , and patience , too , a great deal of both . 
One could invent quicker ways , and fully as sure ones but none that would be as picturesque as this none that could be made so dramatic . 
And so I was not going to give this one up . 
It might delay us months , but no matter , I would carry it out or break some thing . 
Now and then we had an adventure . 
One night we were overtaken by a snow storm while still a mile from the village we were making for . 
Almost instantly we were shut up as in a fog , the driving snow was so thick . 
You couldn't see a thing , and we were soon lost . 
So we had to stop at last and slump down in the snow where we were . 
The storm continued until toward midnight , then ceased . 
By this time two of our feebler men and three of our women were dead , and others past moving and threat ened with death . 
Our master was nearly beside him self . 
He stirred up the living , and made us stand , jump , slap ourselves , to restore our circulation , and he helped as well as he could with his whip . 
We heard shrieks and yells , and soon a woman came running and crying and see ing our group , she flung herself into our midst and begged for protection . 
This poor woman had been stoned until she hardly looked human , she was so battered and bloody . 
The mob wanted to burn her . 
Well , now , what do you suppose our master did ? When we closed around this poor creature to shelter her , he saw his chance . 
He said , burn her here , or they shouldn't have her at all . 
Imagine that ! They were willing . 
That was the sort of master we had . 
We had adventures all along . 
One day we ran into a procession . 
And such a procession ! All the riffraff of the kingdom seemed to be comprehended in it and all drunk at that . 
We had struck a suburb of London , outside the walls , and this was a sample of one sort of London society . 
Our master secured a good place for us near the gallows . 
A priest was in attendance , and he helped the girl climb up , and said comforting words to her , and made the under sheriff provide a stool for her . 
A law sends this poor young thing to death and it is right . 
By consent of a treacher ous law , instant destruction fell upon this holy home and swept it away ! That young husband was waylaid and impressed , and sent to sea . 
The wife knew nothing of it . 
She sought him everywhere , she moved the hardest hearts with the supplications of her tears , the broken eloquence of her despair . 
Weeks dragged by , she watching , waiting , hoping , her mind going slowly to wreck under the burden of her misery . 
Little by little all her small possessions went for food . 
When she could no longer pay her rent , they turned her out of doors . 
But she was seen by the owner of the cloth . 
She was put in jail and brought to trial . 
The man testified to the facts . 
A plea was made for her , and her sorrowful story was told in her behalf . 
When they lifted him up his reason was gone before the sun was set , he had taken his own life . 
Even the hangman couldn't stand it , but turned away . 
All these will I be to it till I die . 
You should have seen her face then ! Gratitude ? Lord , what do you want with words to express that ? Words are only painted fire a look is the fire itself . 
She gave that look , and carried it away to the treasury of heaven , where all things that are divine belong . 
AN ENCOUNTER IN THE DARK LONDON to a slave was a sufficiently interest ing place . 
It was merely a great big village and mainly mud and thatch . 
The streets were muddy , crooked , unpaved . 
The populace was an ever flocking and drifting swarm of rags , and splendors , of nodding plumes and shining armor . 
The king had a palace there he saw the outside of it . 
It made him sigh yes , and swear a little , in a poor juvenile sixth century way . 
Sandy passed within ten yards of me on a mule hunting for me , I imagined . 
It was the sight of a newsboy and I couldn't get at him ! Still , I had one com fort here was proof that Clarence was still alive and banging away . 
I meant to be with him before long the thought was full of cheer . 
I had one little glimpse of another thing , one day , which gave me a great uplift . 
It was a wire stretching from housetop to housetop . 
Telegraph or telephone , sure . 
I did very much wish I had a little piece of it . 
It was just what I needed , in order to carry out my project of escape . 
It was all feasible , if I could only get hold of a slender piece of iron which I could shape into a lock pick . 
I could then undo the lumbering padlocks with which our chains were fastened , whenever I might choose . 
But I never had any luck no such thing ever hap pened to fall in my way . 
However , my chance came at last . 
A gentleman who had come twice before to dicker for me , without result , or indeed any approach to a result , came again . 
He wouldn't bate a cent . 
The king was greatly admired , because of his grand physique , but his kingly style was against him , and he wasn't salable nobody wanted that kind of a slave . 
I considered myself safe from parting from him because of my extravagant price . 
It was a steel thing with a long pin to it , with which his long cloth outside gar ment was fastened together in front . 
There were three of them . 
I had a chance to be glad about a minute , then straightway a chance to be sad again . 
I'm tired supporting these two for no good . 
Give me twenty two dollars for this one , and I'll throw the other one in . 
The king couldn't get his breath , he was in such a fury . 
He began to choke and gag , and meantime the master and the gentleman moved away discussing . 
An ye will keep the offer open 'Tis open till the morrow at this hour . 
Then I will answer you at that time , said the gentleman , and disappeared , the master following him . 
I had a time of it to cool the king down , but I managed it . 
I whispered in his ear , to this effect Your grace WILL go for nothing , but after another fashion . 
And so shall I. To night we shall both be free . 
Ah ! How is that ? With this thing which I have stolen , I will unlock these locks and cast off these chains to night . 
That was as far as I went , but the king was charmed and satisfied . 
It is best to keep your own secrets . 
No doubt they fidgeted only about as usual , but it didn't seem so to me . 
It seemed to me that they were going to be forever getting down to their regular snoring . 
But finally I did get my last iron off , and was a free man once more . 
I took a good breath of relief , and reached for the king's irons . 
Too late ! in comes the master , with a light in one hand and his heavy walking staff in the other . 
Quick ! said the king . 
Fetch him back ! Of course , it was the thing to do , and I was up and out in a moment . 
But , dear me , there were no lamps in those days , and it was a dark night . 
But I glimpsed a dim figure a few steps away . 
Then a tremen dous row broke out behind us , and as much as half of our audience left us , with a rush , to invest some sym pathy in that . 
Lanterns began to swing in all direc tions it was the watch gathering from far and near . 
Presently a halberd fell across my back , as a reminder , and I knew what it meant . 
We were marched off toward prison , one on each side of the watchman . 
AN AWFUL PREDICAMENT SLEEP ? It was impossible . 
It would naturally have been impossible in that noisome cavern of a jail , with its mangy crowd of drunken , quarrelsome , and song singing rapscallions . 
It was a long night , but the morning got around at last . 
I made a full and frank explanation to the court . 
Take him hence and give him a few stripes whereby to teach him how to treat the servant of a nobleman after a different fashion another time . 
I said I would make it all right , and so took my leave . 
Took it just in time , too he was starting to ask me why I didn't fetch out these facts the moment I was arrested . 
I didn't wait for breakfast . 
No grass grew under my feet . 
I was soon at the slave quarters . 
Empty everybody gone ! That is , everybody except one body the slave master's . 
It lay there all battered to pulp and all about were the evidences of a terrific fight . 
I picked out a man humble enough in life to conde scend to talk with one so shabby as I , and got his ac count of the matter . 
There were sixteen slaves here . 
They rose against their master in the night , and thou seest how it ended . 
How did it begin ? There was no witness but the slaves . 
It will go hard with the slaves , no doubt , upon the trial . 
Marry , the trial is over . 
Over ! Would they be a week , think you and the matter so simple ? They were not the half of a quarter of an hour at it . 
Why , I don't see how they could determine which were the guilty ones in so short a time . 
WHICH ones ? Indeed , they considered not par ticulars like to that . 
They condemned them in a body . 
The missing one ! It made me feel uncomfortable . 
Is it likely they will find him ? Before the day is spent yes . 
Might one see the place where the rest are con fined ? The outside of it yes . 
The inside of it but ye will not want to see that . 
I took the address of that prison for future reference and then sauntered off . 
This con cealed my worst bruises . 
I no longer resembled my former self . 
Then I struck out for that wire , found it and followed it to its den . 
It was a little room over a butcher's shop which meant that business wasn't very brisk in the telegraphic line . 
The young chap in charge was drowsing at his table . 
I locked the door and put the vast key in my bosom . 
This alarmed the young fellow , and he was going to make a noise but I said Save your wind if you open your mouth you are dead , sure . 
Lively , now ! Call Camelot . 
This doth amaze me ! How should such as you know aught of such matters as Call Camelot ! I am a desperate man . 
Call Camelot , or get away from the instrument and I will do it myself . 
What you ? Yes certainly . 
Now , then , call Clarence . 
Clarence WHO ? Never mind Clarence who . 
Say you want Clar ence you'll get an answer . 
Now , my lad , vacate ! They would have known MY touch , maybe , and so your call was surest but I'm all right now . 
He vacated the place and cocked his ear to listen but it didn't win . 
I didn't waste any time in sociabilities with Clarence , but squared away for business , straight off thus The king is here and in danger . 
We were cap tured and brought here as slaves . 
We should not be able to prove our identity and the fact is , I am not in a position to try . 
Send a telegram for the palace here which will carry conviction with it . 
His answer came straight back They don't know anything about the telegraph they haven't had any experience yet , the line to Lon don is so new . 
Might hang us ! Little he knew how closely he was crowding the facts . 
I couldn't think up anything for the moment . 
Then an idea struck me , and I started it along Send five hundred picked knights with Launcelot in the lead and send them on the jump . 
Let them enter by the southwest gate , and look out for the man with a white cloth around his right arm . 
The answer was prompt They shall start in half an hour . 
All right , Clarence now tell this lad here that I'm a friend of yours and a dead head and that he must be discreet and say nothing about this visit of mine . 
The instrument began to talk to the youth and I hurried away . 
In half an hour it would be nine o'clock . 
Knights and horses in heavy armor couldn't travel very fast . 
We would surround that prison and have the king out in no time . 
It would be showy and picturesque enough , all things considered , though I would have preferred noonday , on account of the more theatrical aspect the thing would have . 
That would help us out of our scrape , with out the knights . 
But I must proceed cautiously , for it was a risky business . 
I must get into sumptuous raiment , and it wouldn't do to run and jump into it . 
But the scheme fell through like scat ! The first corner I turned , I came plump upon one of our slaves , snooping around with a watchman . 
I coughed at the moment , and he gave me a sudden look that bit right into my marrow . 
I judge he thought he had heard that cough before . 
I turned immediately into a shop and worked along down the counter , pricing things and watching out of the corner of my eye . 
Those people had stopped , and were talking together and looking in at the door . 
She was blazing with eagerness to see one of those already celebrated murderers , and she started on the errand at once . 
I slipped out the back way , locked the door behind me , put the key in my pocket and started off , chuckling to myself and comfortable . 
Well , I had gone and spoiled it again , made another mistake . 
A double one , in fact . 
But instead of doing the natural thing , the officer took me at my word , and followed my instructions . 
And so , as I came trotting out of that cul de sac , full of satisfaction with my own cleverness , he turned the corner and I walked right into his handcuffs . 
If I had known it was a cul de sac however , there isn't any excusing a blunder like that , let it go . 
Charge it up to profit and loss . 
Then I re proached him for betraying me . 
He was more sur prised than hurt . 
Well , there was a sort of bastard justice in his view of the case , and so I dropped the matter . 
When you can't cure a disaster by argument , what is the use to argue ? It isn't my way . 
So I only said You're not going to be hanged . 
Both men laughed , and the slave said Ye have not ranked as a fool before . 
You might better keep your reputation , seeing the strain would not be for long . 
It will stand it , I reckon . 
Before to morrow we shall be out of prison , and free to go where we will , besides . 
The witty officer lifted at his left ear with his thumb , made a rasping noise in his throat , and said Out of prison yes ye say true . 
And free likewise to go where ye will , so ye wander not out of his grace the Devil's sultry realm . 
I kept my temper , and said , indifferently Now I suppose you really think we are going to hang within a day or two . 
I thought it not many minutes ago , for so the thing was decided and proclaimed . 
Ah , then you've changed your mind , is that it ? Even that . 
I only THOUGHT , then I KNOW , now . 
I felt sarcastical , so I said Oh , sapient servant of the law , condescend to tell us , then , what you KNOW . 
That ye will all be hanged TO DAY , at mid after noon ! Oho ! that shot hit home ! Lean upon me . 
The fact is I did need to lean upon somebody . 
My knights couldn't arrive in time . 
They would be as much as three hours too late . 
Nothing in the world could save the King of England nor me , which was more important . 
More important , not merely to me , but to the nation the only nation on earth standing ready to blossom into civilization . 
I said no more , there wasn't anything to say . 
I knew what the man meant that if the missing slave was found , the postponement would be revoked , the execution take place to day . 
Well , the missing slave was found . 
SIR LAUNCELOT AND KNIGHTS TO THE RESCUE NEARING four in the afternoon . 
The scene was just outside the walls of London . 
A cool , com fortable , superb day , with a brilliant sun the kind of day to make one want to live , not die . 
The multitude was prodigious and far reaching and yet we fifteen poor devils hadn't a friend in it . 
There was something painful in that thought , look at it how you might . 
There we sat , on our tall scaffold , the butt of the hate and mockery of all those enemies . 
We were being made a holiday spectacle . 
They had built a sort of grand stand for the nobility and gentry , and these were there in full force , with their ladies . 
We recognized a good many of them . 
The crowd got a brief and unexpected dash of diversion out of the king . 
It startled and surprised him to hear them break into a vast roar of laughter . 
It wounded his dignity , and he locked himself up in silence . 
He put on all his majesty and sat under this rain of contempt and insult un moved . 
He certainly was great in his way . 
Absently , I had taken off my white bandage and wound it about my right arm . 
When the crowd noticed this , they began upon me . 
They drowned me out with joyous derision . 
But presently there was silence for the sheriffs of London , in their official robes , with their subordinates , began to make a stir which indicated that business was about to begin . 
In the hush which followed , our crime was recited , the death warrant read , then everybody uncovered while a priest uttered a prayer . 
Then a slave was blindfolded the hangman unslung his rope . 
I followed its receding thread out into the distance not a horseman on it , or sign of one . 
There was a jerk , and the slave hung dangling dangling and hideously squirming , for his limbs were not tied . 
A second rope was unslung , in a moment another slave was dangling . 
In a minute a third slave was struggling in the air . 
They finished blindfolding him , they led him under the rope . 
I couldn't shake off that clinging impotence . 
Well , it was noble to see Launcelot and the boys swarm up onto that scaffold and heave sheriffs and such overboard . 
And it was fine to see that astonished multitude go down on their knees and beg their lives of the king they had just been deriding and insulting . 
Take the whole situation all around , it was one of the gaudiest effects I ever instigated . 
And presently up comes Clarence , his own self ! and winks , and says , very modernly Good deal of a surprise , wasn't it ? I knew you'd like it . 
I've had the boys practicing this long time , privately and just hungry for a chance to show off . 
THE YANKEE'S FIGHT WITH THE KNIGHTS HOME again , at Camelot . 
A morning or two later I found the paper , damp from the press , by my plate at the breakfast table . 
I turned to the adver tising columns , knowing I should find something of personal interest to me there . 
It was this DE PAR LE ROI . 
The battle will be a l outrance , sith the said offence was of a deadly sort , admitting of no comPosition . 
The n ames of the artists are warrant of good enterTemment . 
With these exceptions , and the press and the clergy , the free list is strict ly susPended . 
Parties are hereby warn ed against buying tickets of speculators they will not be good at the door . 
Everybody knows and likes The Boss , everybody knows and likes Sir Sag . 
come , let us give the lads a good send off . 
Pie for sale on the grounds , and rocks to crack it with and ciRcus lemonade three drops of lime juice to a barrel of water . 
N. B. This is the first tournament under the new law , whidh allow each combatant to use any weapon he may pre fer . 
You may want to make a note of that . 
Up to the day set , there was no talk in all Britain of anything but this combat . 
All other topics sank into insignificance and passed out of men's thoughts and interest . 
personage in the king dom was one of the duellists no , all these features were commonplace . 
Yet there was abundant reason for the extraordinary interest which this coming fight was creating . 
Yes , all the world knew it was going to be in reality a duel between Merlin and me , a measuring of his magic powers against mine . 
Against Sir Sagramor , so weaponed and protected , a thousand knights could accomplish nothing against him no known enchant ments could prevail . 
These facts were sure regard ing them there was no doubt , no reason for doubt . 
Until then the world must remain in suspense . 
So the world thought there was a vast matter at stake here , and the world was right , but it was not the one they had in their minds . 
No , a far vaster one was upon the cast of this die THE LIFE OF KNIGHT ERRANTRY . 
I was a champion , it was true , but not the champion of the frivolous black arts , I was the champion of hard unsentimental common sense and reason . 
I was enter ing the lists to either destroy knight errantry or be its victim . 
Vast as the show grounds were , there were no vacant spaces in them outside of the lists , at ten o'clock on the morning of the th . 
If I won my fight with Sir Sagramor , others would have the right to call me out as long as I might be willing to respond . 
Down at our end there were but two tents one for me , and another for my servants . 
At the appointed hour the king made a sign , and the heralds , in their tabards , appeared and made proclamation , naming the combatants and stating the cause of quarrel . 
There was a pause , then a ringing bugle blast , which was the signal for us to come forth . 
All the multitude caught their breath , and an eager curiosity flashed into every face . 
A great shout went up , of welcome and admiration . 
And then out I came . 
But I didn't get any shout . 
I was in the simplest and comfortablest of gymnast costumes flesh colored tights from neck to heel , with blue silk puffings about my loins , and bareheaded . 
My horse was not above medium size , but he was alert , slender limbed , muscled with watch springs , and just a greyhound to go . 
He was a beauty , glossy as silk , and naked as he was when he was born , except for bridle and ranger saddle . 
The iron tower and the gorgeous bedquilt came cumbrously but gracefully pirouetting down the lists , and we tripped lightly up to meet them . 
We halted the tower saluted , I responded then we wheeled and rode side by side to the grand stand and faced our king and queen , to whom we made obeisance . 
The bugles rang again and we separated and rode to the ends of the lists , and took position . 
I got plenty of applause that time . 
We turned , braced up , and down we came again . 
Another blank for the knight , a roar of applause for me . 
So he gave up that business and retired to his end of the lists . 
His temper was clear gone now , and he forgot himself and flung an insult at me which disposed of mine . 
I slipped my lasso from the horn of my saddle , and grasped the coil in my right hand . 
This time you should have seen him come ! it was a business trip , sure by his gait there was blood in his eye . 
These people had never seen anything of that cowboy business before , and it carried them clear off their feet with delight . 
I was sure to have use for it as soon as they could elect a successor for Sir Sagramor , and that couldn't take long where there were so many hungry candidates . 
Indeed , they elected one straight off Sir Hervis de Revel . 
I got another encore and another , and another , and still another . 
When I had snaked five men out , things began to look serious to the ironclads , and they stopped and consulted together . 
As a result , they de cided that it was time to waive etiquette and send their greatest and best against me . 
To the astonishment of that little world , I lassoed Sir Lamorak de Galis , and after him Sir Galahad . 
Across my mind flitted the dear image of a certain hello girl of West Hartford , and I wished she could see me now . 
I looked , and down came Sagramor riding again , with his dust brushed off and is veil nicely re arranged . 
I trotted up to meet him , and pretended to find him by the sound of his horse's hoofs . 
He said Thou'rt quick of ear , but it will not save thee from this ! and he touched the hilt of his great sword . 
His visor was up there was death in his smile . 
I should never be able to dodge his sword , that was plain . 
Somebody was going to die this time . 
If he got the drop on me , I could name the corpse . 
We rode forward together , and saluted the royalties . 
This time the king was disturbed . 
He said Where is thy strange weapon ? It is stolen , sire . 
Hast another at hand ? No , sire , I brought only the one . 
Then Merlin mixed in He brought but the one because there was but the one to bring . 
There exists none other but that one . 
It belongeth to the king of the Demons of the Sea . 
Then is he weaponless , said the king . 
Sir Sagramore , ye will grant him leave to borrow . 
And I will lend ! said Sir Launcelot , limping up . 
He is as brave a knight of his hands as any that be on live , and he shall have mine . 
He put his hand on his sword to draw it , but Sir Sagramor said Stay , it may not be . 
He shall fight with his own weapons it was his privilege to choose them and bring them . 
If he has erred , on his head be it . 
Knight ! said the king . 
Thou'rt overwrought with passion it disorders thy mind . 
Wouldst kill a naked man ? An he do it , he shall answer it to me , said Sir Launcelot . 
I will answer it to any he that desireth ! retorted Sir Sagramor hotly . 
The king had to yield . 
The bugle made proclama tion , and we turned apart and rode to our stations . 
There we stood , a hundred yards apart , facing each other , rigid and motionless , like horsed statues . 
And so we remained , in a soundless hush , as much as a full minute , everybody gazing , nobody stirring . 
It seemed as if the king could not take heart to give the signal . 
Here was a riderless horse plunging by , and yonder lay Sir Sagramor , stone dead . 
The body was dragged over to let the king and the swells look down upon it . 
They were stupefied with aston ishment naturally . 
I was requested to come and ex plain the miracle . 
Then I said If there are any who doubt that this field is well and fairly won , I do not wait for them to challenge me , I challenge them . 
It is a gallant offer , said the king , and well be seems you . 
You have heard the challenge . 
Take it , or I pro claim you recreant knights and vanquished , every one ! It was a bluff you know . 
I snatched both revol vers from the holsters and began to measure distances and calculate chances . 
Bang ! One saddle empty . 
Bang bang , and I bagged two . 
Well , it was nip and tuck with us , and I knew it . 
If I spent the eleventh shot without convincing these people , the twelfth man would kill me , sure . 
And so I never did feel so happy as I did when my ninth downed its man and I detected the wavering in the crowd which is premonitory of panic . 
An instant lost now could knock out my last chance . 
But I didn't lose it . 
I raised both revolvers and pointed them the halted host stood their ground just about one good square moment , then broke and fled . 
Knight errantry was a doomed institution . 
The march of civilization was begun . 
How did I feel ? Ah , you never could imagine it . 
And Brer Merlin ? His stock was flat again . 
Some how , every time the magic of fol de rol tried conclu sions with the magic of science , the magic of fol de rol got left . 
THREE YEARS LATER WHEN I broke the back of knight errantry that time , I no longer felt obliged to work in secret . 
So , the very next day I exposed my hidden schools , my mines , and my vast system of clandestine factories and workshops to an astonished world . 
That is to say , I exposed the nineteenth century to the inspec tion of the sixth . 
Well , it is always a good plan to follow up an advantage promptly . 
The knights were temporarily down , but if I would keep them so I must just simply paralyze them nothing short of that would answer . 
You see , I was bluffing that last time in the field it would be natural for them to work around to that conclusion , if I gave them a chance . 
So I must not give them time and I didn't . 
I not only renewed it , but added to its proportions . 
I said , name the day , and I would take fifty assistants and stand up AGAINST THE MASSED CHIVALRY OF THE WHOLE EARTH AND DESTROY IT . 
I was not bluffing this time . 
I meant what I said I could do what I promised . 
There wasn't any way to misunderstand the language of that challenge . 
Even the dullest of the chivalry perceived that this was a plain case of put up , or shut up . 
They were wise and did the latter . 
In all the next three years they gave me no trouble worth mentioning . 
Consider the three years sped . 
Now look around on England . 
A happy and prosperous country , and strangely altered . 
Schools everywhere , and several colleges a number of pretty good newspapers . 
Even authorship was taking a start Sir Dinadan the Humor ist was first in the field , with a volume of gray headed jokes which I had been familiar with during thirteen centuries . 
If he had left out that old rancid one about the lecturer I wouldn't have said anything but I couldn't stand that one . 
I suppressed the book and hanged the author . 
Slavery was dead and gone all men were equal before the law taxation had been equalized . 
We were building several lines of railway , and our line from Camelot to London was already finished and in operation . 
I was shrewd enough to make all offices connected with the passenger service places of high and distinguished honor . 
My idea was to attract the chivalry and nobility , and make them useful and keep them out of mischief . 
The plan worked very well , the competition for the places was hot . 
express was a duke there wasn't a passenger conductor on the line below the degree of earl . 
There was hardly a knight in all the land who wasn't in some useful employment . 
Things were working steadily toward a secretly longed for point . 
You see , I had two schemes in my head which were the vastest of all my projects . 
The re sult to be a republic . 
Well , I may as well confess , though I do feel ashamed when I think of it I was beginning to have a base hankering to be its first presi dent myself . 
Yes , there was more or less human nature in me I found that out . 
Clarence was with me as concerned the revolution , but in a modified way . 
His idea was a republic , with out privileged orders , but with a hereditary royal family at the head of it instead of an elective chief magistrate . 
He believed that no nation that had ever known the joy of worshiping a royal family could ever be robbed of it and not fade away and die of melancholy . 
I urged that kings were dangerous . 
He said , then have cats . 
He was sure that a royal family of cats would answer every purpose . 
by the grace of God King , would sound as well as it would when applied to the ordinary royal tomcat with tights on . 
The reign of universal peace would begin then , to end no more forever . 
But he never could be in earnest . 
He didn't know what it was . 
He had pictured a distinct and perfectly rational and feasible improvement upon constitutional monarchy , but he was too feather headed to know it , or care anything about it , either . 
She was far from dead yet . 
I sent for preparations of sulphur , I rousted out the croup kettle myself for I don't sit down and wait for doctors when Sandy or the child is sick . 
I knew how to nurse both of them , and had had experience . 
Seats at it were worth well , you would never believe the figure , so it is no use to state it . 
And that was what he did . 
He shied his helmet into the corner , and in half a minute he had a new wick in the alcohol lamp and was firing up on the croup kettle . 
By this time Sandy had built a blanket canopy over the crib , and every thing was ready . 
Everything was ship shape now , and we sat down on either side of the crib to stand our watch . 
Well , there couldn't be a more contented or comfortable sight than Sir Launcelot in his noble armor sitting in gracious serenity at the end of a yard of snowy church warden . 
He was a beautiful man , a lovely man , and was just intended to make a wife and children happy . 
But , of course Guenever however , it's no use to cry over what's done and can't be helped . 
And no instinct warned me that I should never look upon him again in this world ! Lord , what a world of heart break it is . 
The doctors said we must take the child away , if we would coax her back to health and strength again . 
And she must have sea air . 
The little king of that region offered us his hospitalities , and we were glad to accept . 
At the end of a month I sent the vessel home for fresh supplies , and for news . 
We expected her back in three or four days . 
She would bring me , along with other news , the result of a certain experiment which I had been starting . 
I had had a choice band of them in private training for some time , and the date was now arriving for their first public effort . 
In order to give the thing vogue from the start , and place it out of the reach of criticism , I chose my nines by rank , not capacity . 
There wasn't a knight in either team who wasn't a sceptered sovereign . 
As for material of this sort , there was a glut of it always around Arthur . 
You couldn't throw a brick in any direction and not cripple a king . 
Of course , I couldn't get these people to leave off their armor they wouldn't do that when they bathed . 
They consented to differentiate the armor so that a body could tell one team from the other , but that was the most they would do . 
So , one of the teams wore chain mail ulsters , and the other wore plate armor made of my new Bessemer steel . 
Their prac tice in the field was the most fantastic thing I ever saw . 
And when a man was running , and threw himself on his stomach to slide to his base , it was like an iron clad coming into port . 
At first I appointed men of no rank to act as umpires , but I had to discontinue that . 
These people were no easier to please than other nines . 
The umpire's first decision was usually his last they broke him in two with a bat , and his friends toted him home on a shutter . 
When it was noticed that no umpire ever survived a game , umpiring got to be unpopular . 
So I was obliged to appoint somebody whose rank and lofty position under the government would protect him . 
Here are the names of the nines BESSEMERS ULSTERS KING ARTHUR . 
The first public game would certainly draw fifty thousand people and for solid fun would be worth going around the world to see . 
Everything would be favorable it was balmy and beautiful spring weather now , and Nature was all tailored out in her new clothes . 
We couldn't bear to allow anybody to help in this service , so we two stood watch and watch , day in and day out . 
I was a New Englander , and in my opinion this sort of partner ship would compromise her , sooner or later . 
She couldn't see how , but I cut argument short and we had a wedding . 
Now I didn't know I was drawing a prize , yet that was what I did draw . 
Within the twelvemonth I be came her worshiper and ours was the dearest and perfectest comradeship that ever was . 
People talk about beautiful friendships between two persons of the same sex . 
Many a time Sandy heard that imploring cry come from my lips in my sleep . 
With a grand magnanimity she saddled that cry of mine upon our child , conceiving it to be the name of some lost darling of mine . 
Now thou'lt kiss me , as knowing the name I have given the child . 
But I didn't know it , all the same . 
She never found out her mistake . 
Well , during two weeks and a half we watched by the crib , and in our deep solicitude we were uncon scious of any world outside of that sick room . 
Then our reward came the center of the universe turned the corner and began to mend . 
Grateful ? It isn't the term . 
There ISN'T any term for it . 
They had been steeped in troubled bodings all this time their faces showed it . 
I called an escort and we galloped five miles to a hilltop overlooking the sea . 
I went swiftly back , saying not a word to anybody . 
I told Sandy this ghastly news . 
We could imagine no explanation that would begin to explain . 
Had there been an invasion ? an earthquake ? a pestilence ? Had the nation been swept out of existence ? But guessing was profitless . 
I must go at once . 
I borrowed the king's navy a ship no bigger than a steam launch and was soon ready . 
The parting ah , yes , that was hard . 
There were ships in the harbor , at Dover , but they were naked as to sails , and there was no sign of life about them . 
It was Sunday yet at Canterbury the streets were empty strangest of all , there was not even a priest in sight , and no stroke of a bell fell upon my ear . 
The mournfulness of death was everywhere . 
Now I knew ! Now I understood the stupendous calamity that had overtaken England . 
Invasion ? Invasion is a triviality to it . 
It was the INTERDICT ! I asked no questions I didn't need to ask any . 
The Church had struck the thing for me to do was to get into a disguise , and go warily . 
The Tower showed recent war scars . 
Verily , much had been happening . 
Of course , I meant to take the train for Camelot . 
Train ! Why , the station was as vacant as a cavern . 
The journey to Camelot was a repetition of what I had already seen . 
The Monday and the Tuesday differed in no way from the Sunday . 
I arrived far in the night . 
I found no life stirring in the somber streets . 
I groped my way with a heavy heart . 
The vast castle loomed black upon the hilltop , not a spark visible about it . 
Which frightened me one may easily believe that . 
Quick , now , tell me the meaning of this fearful disaster , I said . 
How did it come about ? Well , if there hadn't been any Queen Guenever , it wouldn't have come so early but it would have come , anyway . 
It would have come on your own account by and by by luck , it happened to come on the queen's . 
AND Sir Launcelot's ? Just so . 
and only one heart that was without suspicion Yes the king's a heart that isn't capable of thinking evil of a friend . 
Well , the king might have gone on , still happy and unsuspecting , to the end of his days , but for one of your modern improvements the stock board . 
When you left , three miles of the London , Canterbury and Dover were ready for the rails , and also ready and ripe for manipulation in the stock market . 
It was wildcat , and everybody knew it . 
The stock was for sale at a give away . 
Very well , he did call . 
The boys couldn't de liver . 
Oh , he had them and he just settled his grip and squeezed them . 
They were laughing in their sleeves over their smartness in selling stock to him at and and along there that wasn't worth . 
Well , when they had laughed long enough on that side of their mouths , they rested up that side by shift ing the laugh to the other side . 
That was when they compromised with the Invincible at ! Good land ! He skinned them alive , and they deserved it anyway , the whole kingdom rejoiced . 
Well , among the flayed were Sir Agravaine and Sir Mordred , nephews to the king . 
End of the first act . 
Act second , scene first , an apartment in Carlisle castle , where the court had gone for a few days' hunting . 
Persons present , the whole tribe of the king's nephews . 
Mordred and Agravaine propose to call the guileless Arthur's attention to Guenever and Sir Launcelot . 
Sir Gawaine , Sir Gareth , and Sir Gaheris will have nothing to do with it . 
A dispute ensues , with loud talk in the midst of it enter the king . 
Mordred and Agravaine spring their devastating tale upon him . 
A trap is laid for Launcelot , by the king's command , and Sir Launcelot walks into it . 
Oh , dear , only one thing could result I see that . 
War , and the knights of the realm divided into a king's party and a Sir Launcelot's party . 
Yes that was the way of it . 
The king sent the queen to the stake , proposing to purify her with fire . 
wait , I'm not done yet Sir Tor , Sir Gauter , Sir Gillimer The very best man in my subordinate nine . 
Come , I can't stand this ! Sir Driant , Sir Lambegus , Sir Herminde , Sir Pertilope , Sir Perimones , and whom do you think ? Rush ! Go on . 
Sir Gaheris , and Sir Gareth both ! Oh , incredible ! Their love for Launcelot was in destructible . 
Well , it was an accident . 
They were simply on lookers they were unarmed , and were merely there to witness the queen's punishment . 
Sir Launcelot smote down whoever came in the way of his blind fury , and he killed these without noticing who they were . 
Here is an instantaneous photograph one of our boys got of the battle it's for sale on every news stand . 
There the figures nearest the queen are Sir Launcelot with his sword up , and Sir Gareth gasping his latest breath . 
You can catch the agony in the queen's face through the curling smoke . 
It's a rattling battle picture . 
We must take good care of it its historical value is incalculable . 
Well , the rest of the tale is just war , pure and simple . 
Launcelot retreated to his town and castle of Joyous Gard , and gathered there a great following of knights . 
Then the Church patched up a peace between Arthur and Launcelot and the queen and everybody everybody but Sir Gawaine . 
He was bitter about the slaying of his brothers , Gareth and Gaheris , and would not be appeased . 
He notified Launcelot to get him thence , and make swift prepara tion , and look to be soon attacked . 
So Launcelot sailed to his Duchy of Guienne with his following , and Gawaine soon followed with an army , and he beguiled Arthur to go with him . 
Arthur left the kingdom in Sir Mordred's hands until you should return Ah a king's customary wisdom ! Yes . 
Sir Mordred set himself at once to work to make his kingship permanent . 
He was going to marry Guenever , as a first move but she fled and shut her self up in the Tower of London . 
Mordred attacked the Bishop of Canterbury dropped down on him with the Interdict . 
The king returned Mordred fought him at Dover , at Canterbury , and again at Barham Down . 
Then there was talk of peace and a composi tion . 
Terms , Mordred to have Cornwall and Kent during Arthur's life , and the whole kingdom after ward . 
Well , upon my word ! My dream of a republic to BE a dream , and so remain . 
The two armies lay near Salisbury . 
But battle was precipitated by an accident . 
Mordred had given a similar order to HIS people . 
Well , by and by an adder bit a knight's heel the knight forgot all about the order , and made a slash at the adder with his sword . 
Inside of half a minute those two prodigious hosts came together with a crash ! They butchered away all day . 
Then the king however , we have started something fresh since you left our paper has . 
No ? What is that ? War correspondence ! Why , that's good . 
Yes , the paper was booming right along , for the Interdict made no impression , got no grip , while the war lasted . 
I had war correspondents with both armies . 
Jesu mercy , said the king , where are all my noble knights becomen ? Alas that ever I should see this doleful day . 
For now , said Arthur , I am come to mine end . 
But would to God that I wist where were that traitor Sir Mordred , that hath caused all this mischief . 
Then was King Arthur ware where Sir Mordred leaned upon his sword among a great heap of dead men . 
Now give me my spear , said Arthur unto Sir Lucan , for yonder I have espied the traitor that all this woe hath wrought . 
Sir , let him be , said Sir Lucan , for he is unhappy and if ye pass this unhappy day , ye shall be right well revenged upon him . 
Good lord , remember ye of your night's dream , and what the spirit of Sir Gawaine told you this night , yet God of his great goodness hath preserved you hitherto . 
Therefore , for God's sake , my lord , leave off by this . 
For blessed be God ye have won the field for here we be three on live , and with Sir Mordred is none on live . 
And if ye leave off now , this wicked day of destiny is past . 
God speed you well , said Sir Bedivere . 
Then the king gat his spear in both his hands , and ran toward Sir Mordred crying , Traitor , now is thy death day come . 
And when Sir Mordred heard Sir Arthur , he ran until him with his sword drawn in his hand . 
And then King Arthur smote Sir Mordred under the shield , with a foin of his spear throughout the body more than a fathom . 
And when Sir Mordred felt that he had his death's wound , he thrust himself , with the might that he had , up to the butt of King Arthur's spear . 
Well is the king all right ? Did he get well ? Poor soul , no . 
I was utterly stunned it had not seemed to me that any wound could be mortal to him . 
And the queen , Clarence ? She is a nun , in Almesbury . 
What changes ! and in such a short while . 
What next , I wonder ? I can tell you what next . 
Well ? Stake our lives and stand by them ! What do you mean by that ? The Church is master now . 
The Interdict in cluded you with Mordred it is not to be removed while you remain alive . 
The Church has gathered all the knights that are left alive , and as soon as you are discovered we shall have busi ness on our hands . 
Did you think you had educated the superstition out of those people ? I certainly did think it . 
Well , then , you may unthink it . 
They stood every strain easily until the Interdict . 
Since then , they merely put on a bold outside at heart they are quaking . 
Make up your mind to it when the armies come , the mask will fall . 
They will turn our own science against us . 
Why ? Because I and a handful of the faithful have blocked that game . 
I'll tell you what I've done , and what moved me to it . 
Smart as you are , the Church was smarter . 
It was the Church that sent you cruising through her servants , the doctors . 
Clarence ! It is the truth . 
Every officer of your ship was the Church's picked servant , and so was every man of the crew . 
Oh , come ! It is just as I tell you . 
I did not find out these things at once , but I found them out finally . 
I would have written , wouldn't I ? Naturally . 
I was troubled and suspicious . 
When the commander sailed again I managed to ship a spy with him . 
I have never heard of vessel or spy since . 
I gave myself two weeks to hear from you in . 
Then I resolved to send a ship to Cadiz . 
There was a reason why I didn't . 
I felt safe myself nobody would be anxious to touch a pet of yours . 
So this is what I did . 
From our various works I selected all the men boys I mean whose faithfulness under whatsoever pressure I could swear to , and I called them together secretly and gave them their instructions . 
There are fifty two of them none younger than fourteen , and none above seventeen years old . 
Why did you select boys ? Because all the others were born in an atmosphere of superstition and reared in it . 
It is in their blood and bones . 
With boys it was different . 
Such as have been under our training from seven to ten years have had no acquaintance with the Church's terrors , and it was among these that I found my fifty two . 
And as that miracle hadn't become necessary then , I thought it might be a good idea to utilize the plant now . 
I've provisioned the cave for a siege A good idea , a first rate idea . 
I placed four of my boys there as a guard inside , and out of sight . 
, and about midnight I and my boys turned out and connected that wire with the cave , and nobody but you and I suspects where the other end of it goes to . 
We laid it under ground , of course , and it was all finished in a couple of hours or so . 
We sha'n't have to leave our fortress now when we want to blow up our civilization . 
It was the right move and the natural one military necessity , in the changed condition of things . 
Well , what changes HAVE come ! We expected to be besieged in the palace some time or other , but how ever , go on . 
Next , we built a wire fence . 
You dropped the hint of it yourself , two or three years ago . 
Oh , I remember the time the Church tried her strength against us the first time , and presently thought it wise to wait for a hopefuler season . 
The fences are fastened to heavy oaken posts only three feet apart , and these posts are sunk five feet in the ground . 
That is good and strong . 
The wires have no ground connection out side of the cave . 
Nono , that won't do ! Why ? It's too expensive uses up force for nothing . 
You don't want any ground connection except the one through the negative brush . 
The other end of every wire must be brought back into the cave and fastened independently , and WITHOUT any ground connection . 
Now , then , observe the economy of it . 
Oh , yes , the single ground connection Of course ! I don't know how I overlooked that . 
It's not only cheaper , but it's more effectual than the other way , for if wires break or get tangled , no harm is done . 
No , especially if we have a tell tale in the cave and disconnect the broken wire . 
The gatlings ? Yes that's arranged . 
In the center of the inner circle , on a spacious platform six feet high , I've grouped a battery of thirteen gatling guns , and pro vided plenty of ammunition . 
They command every approach , and when the Church's knights arrive , there's going to be music . 
The brow of the precipice over the cave I've got a wire fence there , and a gatling . 
They won't drop any rocks down on us . 
Well , and the glass cylinder dynamite torpedoes ? That's attended to . 
It's the prettiest garden that was ever planted . 
It's a belt forty feet wide , and goes around the outer fence distance between it and the fence one hundred yards kind of neutral ground that space is . 
There isn't a single square yard of that whole belt but is equipped with a torpedo . 
We laid them on the surface of the ground , and sprinkled a layer of sand over them . 
It's an innocent looking garden , but you let a man start in to hoe it once , and you'll see . 
Oh , that alters the case . 
Who did it ? A Church committee . 
They came to command us to make submis sion . 
You see they didn't really come to test the torpedoes that was merely an incident . 
Did the committee make a report ? Yes , they made one . 
You could have heard it a mile . 
Unanimous ? That was the nature of it . 
After that I put up some signs , for the protection of future committees , and we have had no intruders since . 
Clarence , you've done a world of work , and done it perfectly . 
We had plenty of time for it there wasn't any occasion for hurry . 
We sat silent awhile , thinking . 
Then my mind was made up , and I said Yes , everything is ready everything is shipshape , no detail is wanting . 
I know what to do now . 
So do I sit down and wait . 
No , SIR ! rise up and STRIKE ! Do you mean it ? Yes , indeed ! The DEfensive isn't in my line , and the OFfensive is . 
That is , when I hold a fair hand two thirds as good a hand as the enemy . 
Oh , yes , we'll rise up and strike that's our game . 
A hundred to one you are right . 
When does the performance begin ? NOW ! We'll proclaim the Republic . 
Now you write and I'll dictate thus PROCLAMATION BE IT KNOWN UNTO ALL . 
The monarchy has lapsed , it no longer exists . 
By consequence , all political power has reverted to its original source , the people of the nation . 
A REPUBLIC IS HEREBY PROCLAIMED , as being the natural estate of a nation when other authority has ceased . 
It is the duty of the British people to meet together immediately , and by their votes elect representatives and deliver into their hands the government . 
I signed it The Boss , and dated it from Merlin's Cave . 
Clarence said Why , that tells where we are , and invites them to call right away . 
We STRIKE by the Proclama tion then it's their innings . 
What a cyclone there is going to be to morrow when this piece of paper gets to work ! . 
It's a pleasant old palace , this is I wonder if we shall ever again but never mind about that . 
THE BATTLE OF THE SAND BELT IN Merlin's Cave Clarence and I and fifty two fresh , bright , well educated , clean minded young British boys . 
These people knew me , and had confidence in my word . 
They would clear out without waiting to part their hair , and I could take my own time about dating the explosion . 
You couldn't hire one of them to go back during the century , if the explosion was still impending . 
We had a week of waiting . 
It was not dull for me , because I was writing all the time . 
During the first three days , I finished turning my old diary into this narrative form it only required a chapter or so to bring it down to date . 
The rest of the week I took up in writing letters to my wife . 
Why , it was almost like having us all together again . 
I had spies out every night , of course , to get news . 
Every report made things look more and more im pressive . 
All the nobilities , big and little , were on their way , and all the gentry . 
This was all as was expected . 
Im agine such human muck as this conceive of this folly ! Yes , it was now Death to the Republic ! every where not a dissenting voice . 
All England was marching against us ! Truly , this was more than I had bargained for . 
Poor lads , it was pitiful to see , they were so pale , so worn , so troubled . 
At first their spokesman could hardly find voice or words but he presently got both . 
If I hadn't fore seen this thing and been fixed , that boy would have had me ! I couldn't have said a word . 
I said My boys , your hearts are in the right place , you have thought the worthy thought , you have done the worthy thing . 
You are English boys , you will remain English boys , and you will keep that name unsmirched . 
Give yourselves no further concern , let your minds be at peace . 
The mounted host of mailed knights . 
Acres deep they will march . 
None but nobles and gentry are knights , and NONE BUT THESE will remain to dance to our music after that epi sode . 
It is absolutely true that we shall have to fight nobody but these thirty thousand knights . 
Now speak , and it shall be as you decide . 
Shall we avoid the battle , retire from the field ? NO ! ! ! The shout was unanimous and hearty . 
Ah , they were a darling fifty two ! As pretty as girls , too . 
I was ready for the enemy now . 
Let the approach ing big day come along it would find us on deck . 
The big day arrived on time . 
Break fast was just ready we sat down and ate it . 
This over , I made the boys a little speech , and then sent out a detail to man the battery , with Clarence in command of it . 
Nearer and nearer it came , and more and more sublimely imposing be came its aspect yes , all England was there , appar ently . 
Soon we could see the innumerable banners fluttering , and then the sun struck the sea of armor and set it all aflash . 
Yes , it was a fine sight I hadn't ever seen anything to beat it . 
At last we could make out details . 
All the front ranks , no telling how many acres deep , were horse men plumed knights in armor . 
It was a pity , but it was necessary . 
We could not afford to let the enemy turn our own weapons against us . 
Now ensued one of the dullest quarter hours I had ever endured . 
We waited in a silent solitude enclosed by our circles of wire , and by a circle of heavy smoke outside of these . 
We couldn't see over the wall of smoke , and we couldn't see through it . 
But at last it began to shred away lazily , and by the end of another quarter hour the land was clear and our curiosity was enabled to satisfy itself . 
No living creature was in sight ! We now perceived that additions had been made to our defenses . 
The dynamite had dug a ditch more than a hundred feet wide , all around us , and cast up an embankment some twenty five feet high on both borders of it . 
As to destruction of life , it was amazing . 
Moreover , it was beyond estimate . 
Of course , we could not COUNT the dead , because they did not exist as individuals , but merely as homogeneous protoplasm , with alloys of iron and buttons . 
But there would be no reinforcements this was the last stand of the chivalry of England it was all that was left of the order , after the recent annihilating wars . 
So I felt quite safe in believing that the utmost force that could for the future be brought against us would be but small that is , of knights . 
The conflict was brief on your side , glorious . 
This mighty victory , having been achieved utterly without loss , stands without example in history . 
So long as the planets shall continue to move in their orbits , the BATTLE OF THE SAND BELT will not perish out of the memories of men . 
I read it well , and the applause I got was very grati fying to me . 
I then wound up with these remarks The war with the English nation , as a nation , is at an end . 
The nation has retired from the field and the war . 
Before it can be persuaded to return , war will have ceased . 
This campaign is the only one that is going to be fought . 
It will be brief the briefest in history . 
Also the most destructive to life , considered from the standpoint of proportion of casualties to numbers engaged . 
We are done with the nation henceforth we deal only with the knights . 
English knights can be killed , but they cannot be conquered . 
We know what is before us . 
While one of these men remains alive , our task is not finished , the war is not ended . 
We will kill them all . 
Loud and long con tinued applause . 
I picketed the great embankments thrown up around our lines by the dynamite explosion merely a look out of a couple of boys to announce the enemy when he should appear again . 
The forty men were divided into two shifts of twenty each , and were to relieve each other every two hours . 
In ten hours the work was accomplished . 
It was nightfall now , and I withdrew my pickets . 
The one who had had the northern outlook reported a camp in sight , but visible with the glass only . 
That was what I had been expecting . 
They were feeling us , you see they wanted to know if we were going to play that red terror on them again . 
They would grow bolder in the night , perhaps . 
I be lieved I knew what project they would attempt , because it was plainly the thing I would attempt myself if I were in their places and as ignorant as they were . 
I mentioned it to Clarence . 
I think you are right , said he it is the obvious thing for them to try . 
Well , then , I said , if they do it they are doomed . 
They won't have the slightest show in the world . 
It seems an awful pity . 
The thing disturbed me so that I couldn't get any peace of mind . 
for thinking of it and worrying over it . 
So , at last , to quiet my conscience , I framed this message to the knights TO THE HONORABLE THE COMMANDER OF THE INSURGENT CHIVALRY OF ENGLAND YOU fight in vain . 
We know your strength if one may call it by that name . 
We know that at the utmost you cannot bring against us above five and twenty thousand knights . 
Therefore , you have no chance none whatever . 
Reflect we are well equipped , well fortified , we number . 
We offer you your lives for the sake of your families , do not reject the gift . 
We offer you this chance , and it is the last throw down your arms surrender unconditionally to the Republic , and all will be forgiven . 
I read it to Clarence , and said I proposed to send it by a flag of truce . 
He laughed the sarcastic laugh he was born with , and said Somehow it seems impossible for you to ever fully realize what these nobilities are . 
Now let us save a little time and trouble . 
Consider me the commander of the knights yonder . 
Now , then , you are the flag of truce approach and deliver me your message , and I will give you your answer . 
I came forward under an imaginary guard of the enemy's soldiers , produced my paper , and read it through . 
It was the thing that would have happened , there was no getting around that . 
I tore up the paper and granted my mistimed sentimentalities a permanent rest . 
I crept to the top of it and lay there on the slant of the muck to watch . 
But it was too dark to see anything . 
As for sounds , there were none . 
However , I had to wait a long time . 
At last I caught what you may call in distinct glimpses of sound dulled metallic sound . 
I pricked up my ears , then , and held my breath , for this was the sort of thing I had been waiting for . 
This sound thickened , and approached from toward the north . 
Presently , I heard it at my own level the ridge top of the opposite embankment , a hundred feet or more away . 
However , the question was soon settled . 
I heard that metallic noise descending into the great ditch . 
It augmented fast , it spread all along , and it unmistakably furnished me this fact an armed host was taking up its quarters in the ditch . 
Yes , these people were arranging a little surprise party for us . 
We could expect entertainment about dawn , possibly earlier . 
I groped my way back to the corral now I had seen enough . 
I went to the platform and signaled to turn the current on to the two inner fences . 
Then I went into the cave , and found everything satisfactory there nobody awake but the working watch . 
I woke Clarence and told him the great ditch was filling up with men , and that I believed all the knights were coming for us in a body . 
Clarence said They will be wanting to send a scout or two in the dark to make preliminary observations . 
Why not take the lightning off the outer fences , and give them a chance ? I've already done it , Clarence . 
Did you ever know me to be inhospitable ? No , you are a good heart . 
I want to go and Be a reception committee ? I will go , too . 
We crossed the corral and lay down together between the two inside fences . 
Even the dim light of the cave had disordered our eyesight somewhat , but the focus straightway began to regulate itself and soon it was ad justed for present circumstances . 
We had had to feel our way before , but we could make out to see the fence posts now . 
We started a whispered conversa tion , but suddenly Clarence broke off and said What is that ? What is what ? That thing yonder . 
What thing where ? There beyond you a little piece dark some thing a dull shape of some kind against the second fence . 
I gazed and he gazed . 
I said Could it be a man , Clarence ? No , I think not . 
If you notice , it looks a lit why , it IS a man ! leaning on the fence . 
I certainly believe it is let us go and see . 
We crept along on our hands and knees until we were pretty close , and then looked up . 
Poor fellow , dead as a door nail , and never knew what hurt him . 
He stood there like a statue no motion about him , ex cept that his plumes swished about a little in the night wind . 
We rose up and looked in through the bars of his visor , but couldn't make out whether we knew him or not features too dim and shadowed . 
We heard muffled sounds approaching , and we sank down to the ground where we were . 
We made out another knight vaguely he was coming very stealthily , and feeling his way . 
He was near enough now for us to see him put out a hand , find an upper wire , then bend and step under it and over the lower one . 
Now he arrived at the first knight and started slightly when he discovered him . 
Killed by a dead man , you see killed by a dead friend , in fact . 
There was something awful about it . 
These early birds came scattering along after each other , about one every five minutes in our vicinity , during half an hour . 
They brought no armor of offense but their swords as a rule , they carried the sword ready in the hand , and put it forward and found the wires with it . 
We concluded to make a tour between the inner fences . 
Well , it was a curious trip . 
One thing seemed to be sufficiently demonstrated our current was so tremendous that it killed before the victim could cry out . 
Pretty soon we detected a muffled and heavy sound , and next moment we guessed what it was . 
It was a surprise in force coming ! whispered Clarence to go and wake the army , and notify it to wait in silence in the cave for further orders . 
He was soon back , and we stood by the inner fence and watched the silent lightning do its awful work upon that swarming host . 
One could make out but little of detail but he could note that a black mass was piling itself up beyond the second fence . 
That swelling bulk was dead men ! Our camp was enclosed with a solid wall of the dead a bulwark , a breast work , of corpses , you may say . 
I sent a current through the third fence now and almost immediately through the fourth and fifth , so quickly were the gaps filled up . 
I believed the time was come now for my climax I believed that that whole army was in our trap . 
Anyway , it was high time to find out . 
So I touched a button and set fifty electric suns aflame on the top of our precipice . 
It swelled out on the night with awful pathos . 
A glance showed that the rest of the enemy per haps ten thousand strong were between us and the encircling ditch , and pressing forward to the assault . 
Consequently we had them ALL ! and had them past help . 
Time for the last act of the tragedy . 
Stand to your guns , men ! Open fire ! The thirteen gatlings began to vomit death into the fated ten thousand . 
They halted , they stood their ground a moment against that withering deluge of fire , then they broke , faced about and swept toward the ditch like chaff before a gale . 
A full fourth part of their force never reached the top of the lofty embank ment the three fourths reached it and plunged over to death by drowning . 
Within ten short minutes after we had opened fire , armed resistance was totally annihilated , the campaign was ended , we fifty four were masters of England . 
Twenty five thousand men lay dead around us . 
But how treacherous is fortune ! In a little while say an hour happened a thing , by my own fault , which but I have no heart to write that . 
Let the record end here . 
A POSTSCRIPT BY CLARENCE I , CLARENCE , must write it for him . 
He proposed that we two go out and see if any help could be accorded the wounded . 
I was strenuous against the project . 
I said that if there were many , we could do but little for them and it would not be wise for us to trust ourselves among them , anyway . 
The first wounded mall who appealed for help was sitting with his back against a dead comrade . 
When The Boss bent over him and spoke to him , the man recognized him and stabbed him . 
That knight was Sir Meliag raunce , as I found out by tearing off his helmet . 
He will not ask for help any more . 
We carried The Boss to the cave and gave his wound , which was not very serious , the best care we could . 
In this service we had the help of Merlin , though we did not know it . 
He was disguised as a woman , and appeared to be a simple old peasant good wife . 
The Boss had been getting along very well , and had amused himself with finishing up his record . 
We were glad to have this woman , for we were short handed . 
We were in a trap , you see a trap of our own making . 
If we stayed where we were , our dead would kill us if we moved out of our defenses , we should no longer be invincible . 
We had conquered in turn we were conquered . 
The Boss recognized this we all recognized it . 
Others were taken down , and still others . 
And with it the end . 
About midnight I awoke , and saw that hag making curious passes in the air about The Boss's head and face , and wondered what it meant . 
Everybody but the dynamo watch lay steeped in sleep there was no sound . 
The woman ceased from her mysterious fool ery , and started tip toeing toward the door . 
Ye shall all die in this place every one except HIM . 
He sleepeth now and shall sleep thirteen centuries . 
I am Merlin ! Then such a delirium of silly laughter overtook him that he reeled about like a drunken man , and presently fetched up against one of our wires . 
His mouth is spread open yet apparently he is still laughing . 
I suppose the face will retain that petrified laugh until the corpse turns to dust . 
The Boss has never stirred sleeps like a stone . 
THE END OF THE MANUSCRIPT FINAL P. S. BY M. T. THE dawn was come when I laid the Manuscript aside . 
The rain had almost ceased , the world was gray and sad , the exhausted storm was sighing and sobbing itself to rest . 
I went to the stranger's room , and listened at his door , which was slightly ajar . 
I could hear his voice , and so I knocked . 
There was no answer , but I still heard the voice . 
I slipped in softly and bent over him . 
His mutterings and ejaculations went on . 
I spoke merely a word , to call his attention . 
Was that the child ? . 
Asleep , perhaps ? Bring her when she wakes , and let me touch her hands , her face , her hair , and tell her good bye . 
Sandy ! Yes , you are there . 
I lost myself a moment , and I thought you were gone . 
Have I been sick long ? It must be so it seems months to me . 
He lay muttering incoherently some little time then for a time he lay silent , and apparently sinking away toward death . 
It is the king ! The drawbridge , there ! Man the battlements ! turn out the He was getting up his last effect but he never finished it . 
