Scanned by Charles Keller for Tina with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
And going where this pathway goes , You too , at last , may find , who knows ? The Garden of the Singing Rose . 
PREFACE The Editor thinks that children will readily forgive him for publishing another Fairy Book . 
We have had the Blue , the Red , the Green , and here is the Yellow . 
If children are pleased , and they are so kind as to say that they are pleased , the Editor does not care very much for what other people may say . 
He is named Mr. G. Laurence Gomme , and he is president of a learned body called the Folk Lore Society . 
And , indeed , they still see no harm in what they have done nay , like Father William in the poem , they are ready 'to do it again and again . 
You may buy them from Mr. Nutt , in the Strand . 
This is contained in very old tales , such as country people tell , and savages 'Little Sioux and little Crow , Little frosty Eskimo . 
These people are thought to know most about fairyland and its inhabitants . 
But , in the Yellow Fairy Book , and the rest , are many tales by persons who are neither savages nor rustics , such as Madame D'Aulnoy and Herr Hans Christian Andersen . 
The Folk Lore Society , or its president , say that THEIR tales are not so true as the rest , and should not be published with the rest . 
As to whether there are really any fairies or not , that is a difficult question . 
Professor Huxley thinks there are none . 
The Editor never saw any himself , but he knows several people who have seen them in the Highlands and heard their music . 
Mr. Baring Gould saw several fairies when he was a boy , and was travelling in the land of the Troubadours . 
As to Giants , they have died out , but real Dwarfs are common in the forests of Africa . 
The exact facts he can learn later , or he can leave them alone . 
There are Russian , German , French , Icelandic , Red Indian , and other stories here . 
, Miss Blackley , Mrs. Dent , and Mrs. Lang , but the Red Indian stories are copied from English versions published by the Smithsonian Bureau of Ethnology , in America . 
Mr. Ford did the pictures , and it is hoped that children will find the book not less pleasing than those which have already been submitted to their consideration . 
This book he thinks quite indispensable in every child's library , and parents should be urged to purchase it at the first opportunity , as without it no education is complete . 
'But we must provide for the winter or else we shall suffer hunger , said the Cat . 
'You , little Mouse , cannot venture everywhere in case you run at last into a trap . 
This good counsel was followed , and a little pot of fat was bought . 
But they did not know where to put it . 
At length , after long consultation , the Cat said , 'I know of no place where it could be better put than in the church . 
No one will trouble to take it away from there . 
We will hide it in a corner , and we won't touch it till we are in want . 
Let me go out to day , and do you take care of the house alone . 
'Yes , go certainly , replied the Mouse , 'and when you eat anything good , think of me I should very much like a drop of the red christening wine . 
But it was all untrue . 
The Cat had no cousin , and had not been asked to be godmother . 
She went straight to the church , slunk to the little pot of fat , began to lick it , and licked the top off . 
As soon as it was evening she went home again . 
'Ah , here you are again ! said the Mouse 'you must certainly have had an enjoyable day . 
'It went off very well , answered the Cat . 
'What was the child's name ? asked the Mouse . 
'Top Off , said the Cat drily . 
'Topoff ! echoed the Mouse , 'it is indeed a wonderful and curious name . 
Is it in your family ? 'What is there odd about it ? said the Cat . 
'It is not worse than Breadthief , as your godchild is called . 
Not long after this another great longing came over the Cat . 
The kind Mouse agreed , but the Cat slunk under the town wall to the church , and ate up half of the pot of fat . 
'Nothing tastes better , said she , 'than what one eats by oneself , and she was very much pleased with her day's work . 
When she came home the Mouse asked , 'What was this child called ? 'Half Gone , answered the Cat . 
'Halfgone ! what a name ! I have never heard it in my life . 
I don't believe it is in the calendar . 
Soon the Cat's mouth began to water once more after her licking business . 
'All good things in threes , she said to the Mouse 'I have again to stand godmother . 
The child is quite black , and has very white paws , but not a single white hair on its body . 
'Oh , you sit at home in your dark grey coat and your long tail , said the Cat , 'and you get fanciful . 
That comes of not going out in the day . 
The Mouse had a good cleaning out while the Cat was gone , and made the house tidy but the greedy Cat ate the fat every bit up . 
'When it is all gone one can be at rest , she said to herself , and at night she came home sleek and satisfied . 
The Mouse asked at once after the third child's name . 
'It won't please you any better , said the Cat , 'he was called Clean Gone . 
'Cleangone ! repeated the Mouse . 
'I do not believe that name has been printed any more than the others . 
Cleangone ! What can it mean ? She shook her head , curled herself up , and went to sleep . 
'Yes , indeed , answered the Cat it will taste as good to you as if you stretched your thin tongue out of the window . 
'Another word and I will eat you up . 
'Cleangone' was already on the poor Mouse's tongue , and scarcely was it out than the Cat made a spring at her , seized and swallowed her . 
You see that is the way of the world . 
THE SIX SWANS A king was once hunting in a great wood , and he hunted the game so eagerly that none of his courtiers could follow him . 
When evening came on he stood still and looked round him , and he saw that he had quite lost himself . 
He sought a way out , but could find none . 
Then he saw an old woman with a shaking head coming towards him but she was a witch . 
'What is the condition ? asked the King . 
The King in his anguish of mind consented , and the old woman led him to her little house where her daughter was sitting by the fire . 
As soon as he had lifted the maiden on to his horse the old woman showed him the way , and the King reached his palace , where the wedding was celebrated . 
The King had already been married once , and had by his first wife seven children , six boys and one girl , whom he loved more than anything in the world . 
But the King went so often to his dear children that the Queen was offended at his absence . 
She grew curious , and wanted to know what he had to do quite alone in the wood . 
She gave his servants a great deal of money , and they betrayed the secret to her , and also told her of the reel which alone could point out the way . 
And when the King had ridden off she took the little shirts and went into the wood , and the reel showed her the way . 
The children , who saw someone coming in the distance , thought it was their dear father coming to them , and sprang to meet him very joyfully . 
Then she threw over each one a little shirt , which when it had touched their bodies changed them into swans , and they flew away over the forest . 
The next day the King came to visit his children , but he found no one but the girl . 
'Where are your brothers ? asked the King . 
'Alas ! dear father , she answered , 'they have gone away and left me all alone . 
But she was afraid of the stepmother , and begged the King to let her stay just one night more in the castle in the wood . 
The poor maiden thought , 'My home is no longer here I will go and seek my brothers . 
And when night came she fled away into the forest . 
She ran all through the night and the next day , till she could go no farther for weariness . 
Then she saw a little hut , went in , and found a room with six little beds . 
She was afraid to lie down on one , so she crept under one of them , lay on the hard floor , and was going to spend the night there . 
But when the sun had set she heard a noise , and saw six swans flying in at the window . 
They stood on the floor and blew at one another , and blew all their feathers off , and their swan skin came off like a shirt . 
Then the maiden recognised her brothers , and overjoyed she crept out from under the bed . 
Her brothers were not less delighted than she to see their little sister again , but their joy did not last long . 
'You cannot stay here , they said to her . 
'This is a den of robbers if they were to come here and find you they would kill you . 
'Could you not protect me ? asked the little sister . 
'No , they answered , 'for we can only lay aside our swan skins for a quarter of an hour every evening . 
For this time we regain our human forms , but then we are changed into swans again . 
Then the little sister cried and said , 'Can you not be freed ? 'Oh , no , they said , 'the conditions are too hard . 
You must not speak or laugh for six years , and must make in that time six shirts for us out of star flowers . 
If a single word comes out of your mouth , all your labour is vain . 
And when the brothers had said this the quarter of an hour came to an end , and they flew away out of the window as swans . 
But the maiden had determined to free her brothers even if it should cost her her life . 
She left the hut , went into the forest , climbed a tree , and spent the night there . 
The next morning she went out , collected star flowers , and began to sew . 
She could speak to no one , and she had no wish to laugh , so she sat there , looking only at her work . 
They called to her and said 'Who are you ? But she gave no answer . 
'Come down to us , they said , 'we will do you no harm . 
But she shook her head silently . 
As they pressed her further with questions , she threw them the golden chain from her neck . 
But they did not leave off , and she threw them her girdle , and when this was no use , her garters , and then her dress . 
The huntsmen would not leave her alone , but climbed the tree , lifted the maiden down , and led her to the King . 
The King asked , 'Who are you ? What are you doing up that tree ? But she answered nothing . 
He asked her in all the languages he knew , but she remained as dumb as a fish . 
Because she was so beautiful , however , the King's heart was touched , and he was seized with a great love for her . 
He wrapped her up in his cloak , placed her before him on his horse . 
and brought her to his castle . 
There he had her dressed in rich clothes , and her beauty shone out as bright as day , but not a word could be drawn from her . 
But the King had a wicked mother who was displeased with the marriage , and said wicked things of the young Queen . 
'Who knows who this girl is ? she said 'she cannot speak , and is not worthy of a king . 
After a year , when the Queen had her first child , the old mother took it away from her . 
Then she went to the King and said that the Queen had killed it . 
The King would not believe it , and would not allow any harm to be done her . 
But she sat quietly sewing at the shirts and troubling herself about nothing . 
The next time she had a child the wicked mother did the same thing , but the King could not make up his mind to believe her . 
He said , 'She is too sweet and good to do such a thing as that . 
If she were not dumb and could defend herself , her innocence would be proved . 
The six shirts were done there was only the left sleeve wanting to the last . 
Then she knew that her release was at hand and her heart danced for joy . 
The swans fluttered round her , and hovered low so that she could throw the shirts over them . 
When they had touched them the swan skins fell off , and her brothers stood before her living , well and beautiful . 
Only the youngest had a swan's wing instead of his left arm . 
She told him of the old woman's deceit , and how she had taken the three children away and hidden them . 
Then they were fetched , to the great joy of the King , and the wicked mother came to no good end . 
But the King and the Queen with their six brothers lived many years in happiness and peace . 
THE DRAGON OF THE NORTH 'Der Norlands Drache , from Esthnische Mahrchen . 
When it moved it jumped like a frog , and with every spring it covered half a mile of ground . 
Fortunately its habit , was to remain for several years in the same place , and not to move on till the whole neighbourhood was eaten up . 
Once a great forest in which the Dragon lay had been set on fire the forest was burnt down , but the fire did not do the monster the least harm . 
This inscription would enable anyone who was wise enough to interpret it to find out how the Dragon could be destroyed . 
Only no one knew where the ring was hidden , nor was there any sorcerer or learned man to be found who would be able to explain the inscription . 
At last a young man , with a good heart and plenty of courage , set out to search for the ring . 
He took his way towards the sunrising , because he knew that all the wisdom of old time comes from the East . 
After some years he met with a famous Eastern magician , and asked for his advice in the matter . 
I can help you to understand it if you will stay with me a few days . 
The youth thankfully accepted the magician's offer , and said , 'I cannot now offer you any reward for your kindness , but should my undertaking succeed your trouble shall be richly repaid . 
At parting the magician said to him . 
But time went on , and he heard nothing about the ring . 
The first bird said 'I know that wandering fool under the tree there , who has come so far without finding what he seeks . 
He is trying to find King Solomon's lost ring . 
The other bird answered , 'He will have to seek help from the Witch maiden , who will doubtless be able to put him on the right track . 
If she has not got the ring herself , she knows well enough who has it . 
'But where is he to find the Witch maiden ? said the first bird . 
'She has no settled dwelling , but is here to day and gone to morrow . 
He might as well try to catch the wind . 
'Well , said the first bird , 'the spring is not far from here . 
Shall we go and see how it is she does it ? 'Willingly , if you like , said the other . 
He ate his breakfast , and waited until the birds should start , but they did not leave the place all day . 
They hopped about from one tree to another looking for food , all day long until the evening , when they went back to their old perch to sleep . 
They remained on the tree till noon then they flew away and went towards the south . 
The young man's heart beat with anxiety lest he should lose sight of his guides , but he managed to keep the birds in view until they again perched upon a tree . 
When the youth had overtaken them , he saw that there was a clear spring in the middle of the space . 
He sat down at the foot of the tree upon which the birds were perched , and listened attentively to what they were saying to each other . 
'The sun is not down yet , said the first bird 'we must wait yet awhile till the moon rises and the maiden comes to the spring . 
Do you think she will see that young man sitting under the tree ? 'Nothing is likely to escape her eyes , certainly not a young man , said the other bird . 
'Will the youth have the sense not to let himself be caught in her toils ? 'We will wait , said the first bird , 'and see how they get on together . 
The evening light had quite faded , and the full moon was already shining down upon the forest , when the young man heard a slight rustling sound . 
The youth could not turn away his eyes from the maiden , for he had never in his life seen a woman so beautiful . 
The youth rose and stood waiting . 
Then the maiden said , 'You ought to have a heavy punishment because you have presumed to watch my secret doings in the moonlight . 
But I will forgive you this time , because you are a stranger and knew no better . 
But you must tell me truly who you are and how you came to this place , where no mortal has ever set foot before . 
The youth answered humbly 'Forgive me , beautiful maiden , if I have unintentionally offended you . 
I chanced to come here after long wandering , and found a good place to sleep under this tree . 
At your coming I did not know what to do , but stayed where I was , because I thought my silent watching could not offend you . 
The maiden answered kindly , 'Come and spend this night with us . 
You will sleep better on a pillow than on damp moss . 
When the youth entered he found many splendid chambers , each one finer than the last . 
Hundreds of tapers burnt upon golden candlesticks , and shed a light like the brightest day . 
At length they reached a chamber where a table was spread with the most costly dishes . 
At the table were placed two chairs , one of silver , the other of gold . 
The maiden seated herself upon the golden chair , and offered the silver one to her companion . 
They were served by maidens dressed in white , whose feet made no sound as they moved about , and not a word was spoken during the meal . 
Afterwards the youth and the Witch maiden conversed pleasantly together , until a woman , dressed in red , came in to remind them that it was bedtime . 
The youth could not but be tempted with the beautiful maiden's offer , but he remembered how the birds had called her the witch , and their warning always sounded in his ears . 
Therefore he answered cautiously , 'Do not be angry , dear maiden , if I do not decide immediately on this important matter . 
Give me a few days to consider before we come to an understanding . 
'Why not ? answered the maiden . 
'Take some weeks to consider if you like , and take counsel with your own heart . 
And to make the time pass pleasantly , she took the youth over every part of her beautiful dwelling , and showed him all her splendid treasures . 
But the youth did not know this he thought they were all real . 
One day the maiden took him into a secret chamber , where a little gold box was standing on a silver table . 
Pointing to the box , she said , 'Here is my greatest treasure , whose like is not to be found in the whole world . 
It is a precious gold ring . 
When you marry me , I will give you this ring as a marriage gift , and it will make you the happiest of mortal men . 
But in order that our love may last for ever , you must give me for the ring three drops of blood from the little finger of your left hand . 
When the youth heard these words a cold shudder ran over him , for he remembered that his soul was at stake . 
But even with my half knowledge I can work great wonders . 
If I put the ring upon the little finger of my left hand , then I can fly like a bird through the air wherever I wish to go . 
If I put it on the third finger of my left hand I am invisible , and I can see everything that passes around me , though no one can see me . 
If I put the ring upon the middle finger of my left hand , then neither fire nor water nor any sharp weapon can hurt me . 
If I put it on the forefinger of my left hand , then I can with its help produce whatever I wish . 
I can in a single moment build houses or anything I desire . 
Finally , as long as I wear the ring on the thumb of my left hand , that hand is so strong that it can break down rocks and walls . 
Besides these , the ring has other secret signs which , as I said , no one can understand . 
No doubt it contains secrets of great importance . 
The ring formerly belonged to King Solomon , the wisest of kings , during whose reign the wisest men lived . 
But it is not known whether this ring was ever made by mortal hands it is supposed that an angel gave it to the wise King . 
When the youth heard all this he determined to try and get possession of the ring , though he did not quite believe in all its wonderful gifts . 
Then the maiden opened the box and took the ring out , and it glittered as she held it like the clearest sunbeam . 
He was unwilling at first , but the maiden insisted . 
Then she put the ring on her third finger , and in an instant she had vanished from his eyes . 
Presently she was beside him again laughing , and holding the ring between her fingers . 
'Do let me try , said the youth , 'whether I can do these wonderful things . 
The maiden , suspecting no treachery , gave him the magic ring . 
She took the knife and tried to strike the youth , and he even tried to cut himself with it , but found it impossible . 
Then he asked the maiden to show him how to split stones and rocks with the help of the ring . 
So she led him into a courtyard where stood a great boulder stone . 
'Now , she said , 'put the ring upon the thumb of your left hand , and you will see how strong that hand has become . 
The youth did so , and found to his astonishment that with a single blow of his fist the stone flew into a thousand pieces . 
Then the youth bethought him that he who does not use his luck when he has it is a fool , and that this was a chance which once lost might never return . 
So while they stood laughing at the shattered stone he placed the ring , as if in play , upon the third finger of his left hand . 
'Now , said the maiden , 'you are invisible to me until you take the ring off again . 
But the young man never came back . 
Then the maiden saw she was deceived , and bitterly repented that she had ever trusted him with the ring . 
The young man never halted in his flight until he reached the dwelling of the wise magician who had taught him the speech of birds . 
Then he gave the youth the following instructions how to overcome the Dragon of the North 'You must have an iron horse cast , which must have little wheels under each foot . 
You must also be armed with a spear two fathoms long , which you will be able to wield by means of the magic ring upon your left thumb . 
The spear must be as thick in the middle as a large tree , and both its ends must be sharp . 
In the middle of the spear you must have two strong chains ten fathoms in length . 
After two or three days the monster's strength will be so far exhausted that you will be able to come near him . 
But when all is done , take care you do not lose the ring , and that no one takes it from you by cunning . 
The young man thanked the magician for his directions , and promised , should they succeed , to reward him . 
But the magician answered , 'I have profited so much by the wisdom the ring has taught me that I desire no other reward . 
Then they parted , and the youth quickly flew home through the air . 
The King announced publicly that he would give his daughter in marriage , as well as a large part of his kingdom , to whosoever should free the country from the monster . 
The youth then went to the King and told him that he had good hopes of subduing the Dragon , if the King would grant him all he desired for the purpose . 
The King willingly agreed , and the iron horse , the great spear , and the chains were all prepared as the youth requested . 
The Dragon was now so near that in a couple of springs he would be over the frontier . 
But a raven unexpectedly gave him this advice 'Ride upon the horse , and push the spear against the ground , as if you were pushing off a boat from the land . 
The youth did so , and found that in this way he could easily move forwards . 
The Dragon had his monstrous jaws wide open , all ready for his expected prey . 
Then quick as lightning he sprang from his horse before the Dragon had time to shut his mouth . 
A fearful clap like thunder , which could be heard for miles around , now warned him that the Dragon's jaws had closed upon the spear . 
The youth now hastened to fasten down the chains to the ground by means of the enormous iron pegs which he had provided . 
You can fancy how great was the rejoicing when the news was spread abroad that the terrible monster was dead . 
His conqueror was received into the city with as much pomp as if he had been the mightiest of kings . 
But there is a proverb which says that ill gotten gains never prosper , and the Prince found that the stolen ring brought him ill luck after all . 
The Witch maiden had never rested night nor day until she had found out where the ring was . 
Then the eagle flew down to the earth with her prey , and the two stood face to face once more in human form . 
'Now , villain , you are in my power ! cried the Witch maiden . 
'I favoured you with my love , and you repaid me with treachery and theft . 
'Forgive me ! forgive me ! cried the Prince 'I know too well how deeply I have wronged you , and most heartily do I repent it . 
The maiden answered , 'Your prayers and your repentance come too late , and if I were to spare you everyone would think me a fool . 
You have doubly wronged me first you scorned my love , and then you stole my ring , and you must bear the punishment . 
With these words she put the ring upon her left thumb , lifted the young man with one hand , and walked away with him under her arm . 
This time she did not take him to a splendid palace , but to a deep cave in a rock , where there were chains hanging from the wall . 
The maiden now chained the young man's hands and feet so that he could not escape then she said in an angry voice , 'Here you shall remain chained up until you die . 
I will bring you every day enough food to prevent you dying of hunger , but you need never hope for freedom any more . 
With these words she left him . 
The old King and his daughter waited anxiously for many weeks for the Prince's return , but no news of him arrived . 
I will therefore go with you myself . 
So they all set out , guided by birds , and after some days came to the cave where the unfortunate Prince had been chained up for nearly seven years . 
He recognised the magician immediately , but the old man did not know him , he had grown so thin . 
However , he undid the chains by the help of magic , and took care of the Prince until he recovered and became strong enough to travel . 
When he reached home he found that the old King had died that morning , so that he was now raised to the throne . 
Now , if YOU had been the Prince , would you not rather have stayed with the pretty witch maiden ? STORY OF THE EMPEROR'S NEW CLOTHES Andersen . 
Many years ago there lived an Emperor who was so fond of new clothes that he spent all his money on them in order to be beautifully dressed . 
He did not care about his soldiers , he did not care about the theatre he only liked to go out walking to show off his new clothes . 
In the great city in which he lived there was always something going on every day many strangers came there . 
One day two impostors arrived who gave themselves out as weavers , and said that they knew how to manufacture the most beautiful cloth imaginable . 
'Those must indeed be splendid clothes , thought the Emperor . 
And he gave both the impostors much money , so that they might begin their work . 
They placed two weaving looms , and began to do as if they were working , but they had not the least thing on the looms . 
They also demanded the finest silk and the best gold , which they put in their pockets , and worked at the empty looms till late into the night . 
'I should like very much to know how far they have got on with the cloth , thought the Emperor . 
But he remembered when he thought about it that whoever was stupid or not fit for his office would not be able to see it . 
Now he certainly believed that he had nothing to fear for himself , but he wanted first to send somebody else in order to see how he stood with regard to his office . 
Everybody in the whole town knew what a wonderful power the cloth had , and they were all curious to see how bad or how stupid their neighbour was . 
'I will send my old and honoured minister to the weavers , thought the Emperor . 
'He can judge best what the cloth is like , for he has intellect , and no one understands his office better than he . 
Now the good old minister went into the hall where the two impostors sat working at the empty weaving looms . 
'Dear me ! thought the old minister , opening his eyes wide , 'I can see nothing ! But he did not say so . 
Both the impostors begged him to be so kind as to step closer , and asked him if it were not a beautiful texture and lovely colours . 
They pointed to the empty loom , and the poor old minister went forward rubbing his eyes but he could see nothing , for there was nothing there . 
'Oh , it is lovely , most lovely ! answered the old minister , looking through his spectacles . 
'What a texture ! What colours ! Yes , I will tell the Emperor that it pleases me very much . 
'Now we are delighted at that , said both the weavers , and thereupon they named the colours and explained the make of the texture . 
The old minister paid great attention , so that he could tell the same to the Emperor when he came back to him , which he did . 
The impostors now wanted more money , more silk , and more gold to use in their weaving . 
They put it all in their own pockets , and there came no threads on the loom , but they went on as they had done before , working at the empty loom . 
The Emperor soon sent another worthy statesman to see how the weaving was getting on , and whether the cloth would soon be finished . 
It was the same with him as the first one he looked and looked , but because there was nothing on the empty loom he could see nothing . 
'Is it not a beautiful piece of cloth ? asked the two impostors , and they pointed to and described the splendid material which was not there . 
'Stupid I am not ! thought the man , 'so it must be my good office for which I am not fitted . 
It is strange , certainly , but no one must be allowed to notice it . 
And so he praised the cloth which he did not see , and expressed to them his delight at the beautiful colours and the splendid texture . 
'Yes , it is quite beautiful , he said to the Emperor . 
Everybody in the town was talking of the magnificent cloth . 
Now the Emperor wanted to see it himself while it was still on the loom . 
'Is it not splendid ! said both the old statesmen who had already been there . 
'See , your Majesty , what a texture ! What colours ! And then they pointed to the empty loom , for they believed that the others could see the cloth quite well . 
Oh , it is very beautiful , he said . 
'It has my gracious approval . 
And then he nodded pleasantly , and examined the empty loom , for he would not say that he could see nothing . 
'Splendid ! Lovely ! Most beautiful ! went from mouth to mouth everyone seemed delighted over them , and the Emperor gave to the impostors the title of Court weavers to the Emperor . 
Throughout the whole of the night before the morning on which the procession was to take place , the impostors were up and were working by the light of over sixteen candles . 
The people could see that they were very busy making the Emperor's new clothes ready . 
'Will it please your Majesty graciously to take off your clothes , said the impostors , 'then we will put on the new clothes , here before the mirror . 
'How beautifully they fit ! How well they sit ! said everybody . 
'Look , I am ready , said the Emperor . 
'Doesn't it sit well ! And he turned himself again to the mirror to see if his finery was on all right . 
They would not have it noticed that they could see nothing . 
None of the Emperor's clothes had met with such approval as these had . 
'But he has nothing on ! said a little child at last . 
'Just listen to the innocent child ! said the father , and each one whispered to his neighbour what the child had said . 
'But he has nothing on ! the whole of the people called out at last . 
This struck the Emperor , for it seemed to him as if they were right but he thought to himself , 'I must go on with the procession now . 
And the chamberlains walked along still more uprightly , holding up the train which was not there at all . 
THE GOLDEN CRAB 'Prinz Krebs , from Griechische Mahrchen . 
Once upon a time there was a fisherman who had a wife and three children . 
Every morning he used to go out fishing , and whatever fish he caught he sold to the King . 
One day , among the other fishes , he caught a golden crab . 
She turned round in surprise , and then she saw the little creature , the Golden Crab . 
'What ! You can speak , can you , you ridiculous crab ? she said , for she was not quite pleased at the Crab's remarks . 
Then she took him up and placed him on a dish . 
When her husband came home and they sat down to dinner , they presently heard the Crab's little voice saying , 'Give me some too . 
They were all very much surprised , but they gave him something to eat . 
One day the Crab said to the fisherman's wife , 'Go to the King and tell him I wish to marry his younger daughter . 
The fisherman's wife went home and gave this message . 
The old woman did so and went away again . 
So the old woman had to strike again three times upon the ground with the rod , and the next morning the garden was there . 
The King now gave his consent , and the wedding was fixed for the very next day . 
Answer him thus ''Your master , the King , has sent me to tell you that you must send him his golden garment that is like the sun . 
'' Make him give you , besides , the queenly robes of gold and precious stones which are like the flowery meadows , and bring them both to me . 
And bring me also the golden cushion . 
The old man went and did his errand . 
No sooner had he said this than he shook himself , and immediately became a handsome youth , but the next morning he was forced to creep back again into his crab shell . 
And the same thing happened every day . 
But the Princess's affection for the Crab , and the polite attention with which she behaved to him , surprised the royal family very much . 
They suspected some secret , but though they spied and spied , they could not discover it . 
Thus a year passed away , and the Princess had a son , whom she called Benjamin . 
But her mother still thought the whole matter very strange . 
'' And bring them to me . 
The Princess did so , and brought him what he desired . 
The following evening the Prince dressed himself for the tournament . 
Before he went he said to his wife , 'Now mind you do not say when you see me that I am the Crab . 
For if you do this evil will come of it . 
Place yourself at the window with your sisters I will ride by and throw you the silver apple . 
Take it in your hand , but if they ask you who I am , say that you do not know . 
So saying , he kissed her , repeated his warning once more , and went away . 
The Princess went with her sisters to the window and looked on at the tournament . 
Presently her husband rode by and threw the apple up to her . 
She caught it in her hand and went with it to her room , and by and by her husband came back to her . 
But her father was much surprised that she did not seem to care about any of the Princes he therefore appointed a second tournament . 
The Crab then gave his wife the same directions as before , only this time the apple which she received from the black man was of gold . 
But before the Prince went to the tournament he said to his wife , 'Now I know you will betray me to day . 
But she swore to him that she would not tell who he was . 
He then repeated his warning and went away . 
Then the poor Princess cried bitterly , but it was of no use her husband did not come back . 
Now we must leave the Princess and turn to the other persons in the story . 
The old man ran after him , but the dog reached a door , pushed it open , and ran in , the old man following him . 
He did not overtake the dog , but found himself above a staircase , which he descended . 
Then he saw before him a stately palace , and , entering , he found in a large hall a table set for twelve persons . 
He hid himself in the hall behind a great picture , that he might see what would happen . 
At noon he heard a great noise , so that he trembled with fear . 
When he took courage to look out from behind the picture , he saw twelve eagles flying in . 
At this sight his fear became still greater . 
The eagles flew to the basin of a fountain that was there and bathed themselves , when suddenly they were changed into twelve handsome youths . 
Then the youths rose from the table , went back to the great stone fountain , turned themselves into eagles again , and flew away . 
Then the old man went away too , returned to the light of day , and went home . 
Soon after he heard that the Princess was ill , and that the only thing that did her good was having stories told to her . 
He therefore went to the royal castle , obtained an audience of the Princess , and told her about the strange things he bad seen in the underground palace . 
No sooner had he finished than the Princess asked him whether he could find the way to that palace . 
'Yes , he answered , 'certainly . 
And now she desired him to guide her thither at once . 
And immediately he knew her again , and said 'Do you remember how I told you that day that you would betray me ? Now you see that I spoke the truth . 
But all that bad time is past . 
Now listen to me I must still remain enchanted for three months . 
And then they lived happily , and we who hear the story are happier still . 
There he lived for many years , and no one could free him . 
At last a king's daughter came into the wood she had lost her way , and could not find her father's kingdom again . 
She had been wandering round and round for nine days , and she came at last to the iron case . 
I am a greater prince than you are a princess , and I will marry you . 
He said , 'You must come again , and bring a knife with you to scrape a hole in the iron . 
Then he gave her someone for a guide , who walked near her and said nothing , but he brought her in two hours to her house . 
There was great joy in the castle when the Princess came back , and the old King fell on her neck and kissed her . 
So they consulted together , and determined that the miller's daughter , who was very beautiful , should take her place . 
They took her there , gave her a knife , and said she must scrape at the iron stove . 
She scraped for twenty four hours , but did not make the least impression . 
When the day broke , a voice called from the iron stove , 'It seems to me that it is day outside . 
Then she answered , 'It seems so to me I think I hear my father's mill rattling . 
'So you are a miller's daughter ! Then go away at once , and tell the King's daughter to come . 
Then she went away , and told the old King that the thing inside the iron stove would not have her , but wanted the Princess . 
The old King was frightened , and his daughter wept . 
Then she was taken out , and had to scrape for four and twenty hours , but she could make no impression . 
As soon as the day broke the voice from the stove called out , 'It seems to be daylight outside . 
Then she answered , It seems so to me too I think I hear my father blowing his horn . 
'So you are a swineherd's daughter ! Go away at once , and let the King's daughter come . 
When the Princess heard this she began to cry , but it was no good she had to keep her word . 
She took leave of her father , put a knife in her belt , and went to the iron stove in the wood . 
As soon as she reached it she began to scrape , and the iron gave way and before two hours had passed she had made a little hole . 
Then she peeped in and saw such a beautiful youth all shining with gold and precious stones that she fell in love with him on the spot . 
So she scraped away harder than ever , and made the hole so large that he could get out . 
So she went home , but alas ! she said MORE THAN THREE WORDS and immediately the iron stove vanished and went away over a mountain of glass and sharp swords . 
But the Prince was free , and was no longer shut up in it . 
She sought it for nine days , and then her hunger became so great that she did not know how she could live any longer . 
And when it was evening she climbed a little tree and wished that the night would not come , because she was afraid of the wild beasts . 
She came to a little old house with a great deal of grass growing round , and stood in front of a little heap of wood . 
Then she took heart and knocked . 
Then a fat toad called out 'Little green toad with leg like crook , Open wide the door , and look Who it was the latch that shook . 
And a little toad came forward and let her in . 
When she entered they all bid her welcome , and made her sit down . 
They asked her how she came there and what she wanted . 
Then the old toad said 'Little green toad whose leg doth twist , Go to the corner of which you wist , And bring to me the large old kist . 
And the little toad went and brought out a great chest . 
Then they gave her food and drink , and led her to a beautifully made bed of silk and samite , on which she lay down and slept soundly . 
When the day dawned she arose , and the old toad gave her three things out of the huge chest to take with her . 
She would have need of them , for she had to cross a high glass mountain , three cutting swords , and a great lake . 
When she had passed these she would find her lover again . 
So she was given three large needles , a plough wheel , and three nuts , which she was to take great care of . 
Then she reached the three cutting swords , and got on her plough wheel and rolled over them . 
At last she came to a great lake , and , when she had crossed that , arrived at a beautiful castle . 
She went in and gave herself out as a servant , a poor maid who would gladly be engaged . 
But she knew that the Prince whom she had freed from the iron stove in the great wood was in the castle . 
So she was taken on as a kitchen maid for very small wages . 
Now the Prince was about to marry another princess , for he thought she was dead long ago . 
In the evening , when she had washed up and was ready , she felt in her pocket and found the three nuts which the old toad had given her . 
Then she said she would not sell it unless she was granted one favour namely , to sleep by the Prince's door . 
The bride granted her this , because the dress was so beautiful and she had so few like it . 
When it was evening she said to her bridegroom , 'That stupid maid wants to sleep by your door . 
'If you are contented , I am , he said . 
But she gave him a glass of wine in which she had poured a sleeping draught . 
Then they both went to his room , but he slept so soundly that she could not wake him . 
When she had washed up the next evening she bit the second nut , and there was a still more beautiful dress inside . 
When the bride saw it she wanted to buy it also . 
But the maid did not want money , and asked that she should sleep again by the Prince's door . 
The bride , however , gave him a sleeping draught , and he slept so soundly that he heard nothing . 
And when she had washed up on the third night she bit the third nut , and there was a still more beautiful dress inside that was made of pure gold . 
When the bride saw it she wanted to have it , but the maid would only give it her on condition that she should sleep for the third time by the Prince's door . 
But the Prince took care not to drink the sleeping draught . 
You are mine , and I am thine . 
Though it was still night , he got into a carriage with her , and they took the false bride's clothes away , so that she could not follow them . 
So they arrived at last at the little old house , but when they stepped inside it turned into a large castle . 
The toads were all freed , and were beautiful King's children , running about for joy . 
There they were married , and they remained in the castle , which was much larger than that of the Princess's father's . 
But because the old man did not like being left alone , they went and fetched him . 
So they had two kingdoms and lived in great wealth . 
A mouse has run , My story's done . 
Then three of them took counsel together and determined to desert . 
The army cannot come into it , and to morrow it is to march on . 
They crept into the corn , but the army did not march on , but remained encamped close around them . 
They sat for two days and two nights in the corn , and grew so hungry that they nearly died but if they were to venture out , it was certain death . 
They said at last , 'What use was it our deserting ? We must perish here miserably . 
Whilst they were speaking a fiery dragon came flying through the air . 
It hovered near them , and asked why they were hidden there . 
They answered , 'We are three soldiers , and have deserted because our pay was so small . 
Now if we remain here we shall die of hunger , and if we move out we shall be strung up on the gallows . 
'If you will serve me for seven years , said the dragon , I will lead you through the midst of the army so that no one shall catch you . 
'We have no choice , and must take your offer , said they . 
Then the dragon seized them in his claws , took them through the air over the army , and set them down on the earth a long way from it . 
He gave them a little whip , saying , 'Whip and slash with this , and as much money as you want will jump up before you . 
You can then live as great lords , keep horses , and drive about in carriages . 
But after seven years you are mine . 
Then he put a book before them , which he made all three of them sign . 
'I will then give you a riddle , he said 'if you guess it , you shall be free and out of my power . 
The dragon then flew away , and they journeyed on with their little whip . 
They had as much money as they wanted , wore grand clothes , and made their way into the world . 
Wherever they went they lived in merrymaking and splendour , drove about with horses and carriages , ate and drank , but did nothing wrong . 
They went into a field , sat down , and the two pulled long faces . 
An old woman passed by , and asked them why they were so sad . 
'Alas ! what have you to do with it ? You cannot help us . 
'Who knows ? she answered . 
'Only confide your trouble in me . 
He must go in , and there he will find help . 
The two melancholy ones thought , 'That won't save us ! and they remained where they were . 
But the third and merry one jumped up and went into the wood till he found the rock hut . 
In the hut sat a very old woman , who was the Dragon's grandmother . 
She asked him how he came , and what was his business there . 
He told her all that happened , and because she was pleased with him she took compassion on him , and said she would help him . 
She lifted up a large stone which lay over the cellar , saying , 'Hide yourself there you can hear all that is spoken in this room . 
Only sit still and don't stir . 
When the Dragon comes , I will ask him what the riddle is , for he tells me everything then listen carefully what he answers . 
At midnight the Dragon flew in , and asked for his supper . 
His grandmother laid the table , and brought out food and drink till he was satisfied , and they ate and drank together . 
Then in the course of the conversation she asked him what he had done in the day , and how many souls he had conquered . 
'I haven't had much luck to day , he said , 'but I have a tight hold on three soldiers . 
'Indeed ! three soldiers ! said she . 
'Who cannot escape you ? 'They are mine , answered the Dragon scornfully , 'for I shall only give them one riddle which they will never be able to guess . 
'What sort of a riddle is it ? she asked . 
'I will tell you this . 
When the Dragon had gone to bed , his old grandmother pulled up the stone and let out the soldier . 
'Did you pay attention to everything ? 'Yes , he replied , 'I know enough , and can help myself splendidly . 
Then he went by another way through the window secretly , and in all haste back to his comrades . 
He told them how the Dragon had been outwitted by his grandmother , and how he had heard from his own lips the answer to the riddle . 
Then they were all delighted and in high spirits , took out their whip , and cracked so much money that it came jumping up from the ground . 
If you can tell me what you will get for your roast meat , you shall be free , and shall also keep the whip . 
Then said the first soldier , 'In the North Sea lies a dead sea cat that shall be the roast meat . 
Then the Dragon flew away with a loud shriek , and had no more power over them . 
But the three soldiers took the little whip , whipped as much money as they wanted , and lived happily to their lives end . 
THE DONKEY CABBAGE There was once a young Hunter who went boldly into the forest . 
The Hunter was sorry for the poor old woman , and he felt in his pocket and gave her all he could spare . 
He was going on then , but the old woman stopped him and said , 'Listen , dear hunter , to what I say . 
Because of your kind heart I will make you a present . 
Go on your way , and in a short time you will come to a tree on which sit nine birds who have a cloak in their claws and are quarrelling over it . 
Then take aim with your gun and shoot in the middle of them they will let the cloak fall , but one of the birds will be hit and will drop down dead . 
Take the heart out of the dead bird and swallow it whole , and early every morning when you get up you will find a gold piece under your pillow . 
Then the flock took flight with much screaming , but one fell dead , and the cloak fluttered down . 
Then the Hunter did as the old woman had told him he cut open the bird , found its heart , swallowed it , and took the cloak home with him . 
The next morning when he awoke he remembered the promise , and wanted to see if it had come true . 
But when he lifted up his pillow , there sparkled the gold piece , and the next morning he found another , and so on every time he got up . 
So he took leave of his parents , slung his hunting knapsack and his gun round him , and journeyed into the world . 
It happened that one day he went through a thick wood , and when he came to the end of it there lay in the plain before him a large castle . 
At one of the windows in it stood an old woman with a most beautiful maiden by her side , looking out . 
He has a bird's heart in him , and so every morning there lies a gold piece under his pillow . 
But the real reason was that he had caught sight of the lovely face . 
He went into the house , and was kindly received and hospitably entertained . 
Then the old witch said , 'Now we must have the bird heart he will not feel when it is gone . 
She prepared a drink , and when it was ready she poured it in a goblet and gave it to the maiden , who had to hand it to the hunter . 
'Drink to me now , my dearest , she said . 
Then he took the goblet , and when he had swallowed the drink the bird heart came out of his mouth . 
The maiden had to get hold of it secretly and then swallow it herself , for the old witch wanted to have it . 
Then the old witch said , 'We have the bird heart , but we must also get the wishing cloak from him . 
She beat the maiden , and said that if she did not obey it would go ill with her . 
So she did her mother's bidding , and , standing one day by the window , she looked away into the far distance as if she were very sad . 
'Why are you standing there looking so sad ? asked the Hunter . 
'Alas , my love , she replied , over there lies the granite mountain where the costly precious stones grow . 
I have a great longing to go there , so that when I think of it I am very sad . 
For who can fetch them ? Only the birds who fly a man , never . 
'If you have no other trouble , said the Hunter , 'that one I can easily remove from your heart . 
But now the old witch had through her caused the Hunter's eyes to become heavy . 
He said to the maiden , 'We will sit down for a little while and rest I am so tired that I can hardly stand on my feet . 
So they sat down , and he laid his head on her lap and fell asleep . 
As soon as he was sound asleep she unfastened the cloak from his shoulders , threw it on her own , left the granite and stones , and wished herself home again . 
But when the Hunter had finished his sleep and awoke , he found that his love had betrayed him and left him alone on the wild mountain . 
'Oh , said he , 'why is faithlessness so great in the world ? and he sat down in sorrow and trouble , not knowing what to do . 
But the mountain belonged to fierce and huge giants , who lived on it and traded there , and he had not sat long before he saw three of them striding towards him . 
So he lay down as if he had fallen into a deep sleep . 
The giants came up , and the first pushed him with his foot , and said , 'What sort of an earthworm is that ? The second said , 'Crush him dead . 
Talking thus they went away . 
But the Hunter had listened to their talk , and as soon as they had gone he rose and climbed to the summit . 
When he had sat there a little while a cloud swept by , and , seizing him , carried him away . 
At last he thought , 'At a pinch I can eat a salad it does not taste particularly nice , but it will refresh me . 
So he looked about for a good head and ate it , but no sooner had he swallowed a couple of mouthfuls than he felt very strange , and found himself wonderfully changed . 
Four legs began to grow on him , a thick head , and two long ears , and he saw with horror that he had changed into a donkey . 
But as he was still very hungry and this juicy salad tasted very good to his present nature , he went on eating with a still greater appetite . 
At last he got hold of another kind of cabbage , but scarcely had swallowed it when he felt another change , and he once more regained his human form . 
The Hunter now lay down and slept off his weariness . 
Then he put the heads in his pockets , climbed the wall , and started off to seek the castle of his love . 
When he had wandered about for a couple of days he found it quite easily . 
He then browned his face quickly , so that his own mother would not have known him , and went into the castle , where he begged for a lodging . 
'I am so tired , he said , 'I can go no farther . 
When the old witch heard of the fine salad she wanted to eat it , and said , 'Dear countryman , just let me taste the wonderful salad . 
'Why not ? he answered 'I have brought two heads with me , and will give you one . 
So saying , he opened his sack and gave her the bad one . 
The witch suspected no evil , and her mouth watered to taste the new dish , so that she went into the kitchen to prepare it herself . 
When it was ready she could not wait till it was served at the table , but she immediately took a couple of leaves and put them in her mouth . 
No sooner , however , had she swallowed them than she lost human form , and ran into the courtyard in the shape of a donkey . 
Immediately the charm worked , and she became a donkey , and ran out to join the old witch , and the dish with the salad in it fell to the ground . 
Then thought the Hunter , 'The cabbage must have already begun to work . 
And he said , 'I will go to the kitchen and fetch it myself . 
When he came there he saw the two donkeys running about in the courtyard , but the salad was lying on the ground . 
'That's all right , said he 'two have had their share ! And lifting the remaining leaves up , he laid them on the dish and brought them to the maiden . 
'I am bringing you the delicious food my own self , he said , 'so that you need not wait any longer . 
Then she ate , and , as the others had done , she at once lost her human form , and ran as a donkey into the yard . 
He tied them all three with a rope , and drove them away till he came to a mill . 
He knocked at the window , and the miller put his head out and asked what he wanted . 
'I have three tiresome animals , he answered , 'which I don't want to keep any longer . 
If you will take them , give them food and stabling , and do as I tell you with them , I will pay you as much as you want . 
Then he went back into the castle , and he found there all that he wanted . 
After a couple of days the miller came and said that he must tell him that the old donkey which was to have three beatings and only one meal had died . 
'The two others , he added , 'are certainly not dead , and get their three meals every day , but they are so sad that they cannot last much longer . 
Then the Hunter took pity on them , laid aside his anger , and told the miller to drive them back again . 
And when they came he gave them some of the good cabbage to eat , so that they became human again . 
Your wishing cloak is hanging in a cupboard , and as for the bird heart I will make a drink and give it back to you . 
But he changed his mind , and said , 'Keep it it makes no difference , for I will take you to be my own dear true wife . 
And the wedding was celebrated , and they lived happy together till death . 
THE LITTLE GREEN FROG Cabinet des Fees . 
In a part of the world whose name I forget lived once upon a time two kings , called Peridor and Diamantino . 
Now it often happens that as princes can generally manage to get their own way it is harder for them to be good than it is for common people . 
The Queen dowager was wise and good , and tried her best to make her people happy . 
that his subjects called him Peridor the Sorrowful . 
By the time he was fifteen Saphir had learnt everything that a prince should know , and he was , besides , charming and agreeable . 
It was about this time that the fairies suddenly took fright lest his love for his father should interfere with the plans they had made for the young prince . 
The Prince did not notice for some days that there was anything new in the room , but at last he perceived it , and went up to look at it more closely . 
The magic mirror had been for about a year in the Prince's possession , when one day a new subject of disquiet seized upon him . 
And in this he was perfectly right . 
The young girl had only possessed it for a short time , and neglected all her duties for the sake of the mirror . 
All he knew was that the face was that of a man , and this was quite enough to make him madly jealous . 
This was the doing of the fairies , and we must suppose that they had their reasons for acting as they did . 
When these things happened Saphir was about eighteen years old , and fifteen years had passed away since the death of his mother . 
King Peridor had grown more and more unhappy as time went on , and at last he fell so ill that it seemed as if his days were numbered . 
He was so much beloved by his subjects that this sad news was heard with despair by the nation , and more than all by the Prince . 
During his whole illness the King never spoke of anything but the Queen , his sorrow at having grieved her , and his hope of one day seeing her again . 
All the doctors and all the water cures in the kingdom had been tried , and nothing would do him any good . 
At last he persuaded them to let him lie quietly in his room , where no one came to trouble him . 
Perhaps the worst pain he had to bear was a sort of weight on his chest , which made it very hard for him to breathe . 
So he commanded his servants to leave the windows open in order that he might get more air . 
One day , when he had been left alone for a few minutes , a bird with brilliant plumage came and fluttered round the window , and finally rested on the sill . 
I cannot tell you what the crown was made of , but I am quite certain that it was still more splendid than all the rest . 
As to his voice I can say nothing about that , for the bird never sang at all . 
In fact , he did nothing but gaze steadily at the King , and as he gazed , the King felt his strength come back to him . 
Filled with joy at his cure , he tried to seize the bird to whom he owed it all , but , swifter than a swallow , it managed to avoid him . 
All this bustle , however , ended in nothing but confusion , and , what was worse , the King soon fell back into the same condition as he was in before . 
In spite of the opposition he met with , he rode away , followed by his household , trusting to chance to help him . 
He had formed no plan , and there was no reason that he should choose one path more than another . 
His only idea was to make straight for those spots which were the favourite haunts of birds . 
But in vain he examined all the hedges and all the thickets in vain he questioned everyone he met along the road . 
The more he sought the less he found . 
At last he came to one of the largest forests in all the world , composed entirely of cedars . 
But in spite of the deep shadows cast by the wide spreading branches of the trees , the grass underneath was soft and green , and covered with the rarest flowers . 
He ordered some nets to be prepared and painted of the same colours as the bird's plumage , thinking that we are all easily caught by what is like ourselves . 
In this he had to help him not only the fowlers by profession , but also his attendants , who excelled in this art . 
For a man is not a courtier unless he can do everything . 
After searching as usual for nearly a whole day Prince Saphir began to feel overcome with thirst . 
He was too tired to go any farther , when happily he discovered a little way off a bubbling fountain of the clearest water . 
, and was just about to dip it in the water , when a lovely little green frog , much prettier than frogs generally are , jumped into the cup . 
Far from admiring its beauty , Saphir shook it impatiently off but it was no good , for quick as lightning the frog jumped back again . 
So the Prince drank his fill , and then , by the command of the Little Green Frog , he lay down on the grass to rest himself . 
'Now , she began , 'be sure you do exactly in every respect what I tell you . 
First you must call together your attendants , and order them to remain in a little hamlet close by until you want them . 
Then go , quite alone , down a road that you will find on your right hand , looking southwards . 
This road is planted all the way with cedars of Lebanon and after going down it a long way you will come at last to a magnificent castle . 
And now , she went on , 'attend carefully to what I am going to say . 
Take this tiny grain of sand , and put it into the ground as close as you can to the gate of the castle . 
It has the virtue both of opening the gate and also of sending to sleep all the inhabitants . 
Then go at once to the stable , and pay no heed to anything except what I tell you . 
Choose the handsomest of all the horses , leap quickly on its back , and come to me as fast as you can . 
Farewell , Prince I wish you good luck , and with these words the Little Frog plunged into the water and disappeared . 
The Prince , who felt more hopeful than he had done since he left home , did precisely as he had been ordered . 
However , he had no thoughts to spare for its beauty , and quickly buried his grain of sand in the earth . 
In one instant the gates flew open , and all the dwellers inside fell sound asleep . 
, he hastily placed it on the animal's back . 
Suddenly the people in the castle became broad awake , and rushed to the stable . 
Very sad , and very much ashamed of himself poor Saphir crept back to the fountain , where the Frog was awaiting him with a good scolding . 
'Whom do you take me for ? she exclaimed angrily . 
He was to wake the maiden instantly and carry her off , and to be sure not to pay any heed to whatever resistance she might make . 
The Prince obeyed the Frog's orders one by one , and all went well for this second time also . 
The gate opened , the inhabitants fell sound asleep , and he walked down the passage till he found the girl on her bed , exactly as he had been told he would . 
He woke her , and begged her firmly , but politely , to follow him quickly . 
After a little persuasion the maiden consented , but only on condition that she was allowed first to put on her dress . 
This sounded so reasonable and natural that it did not enter the Prince's head to refuse her request . 
But the maiden's hand had hardly touched the dress when the palace suddenly awoke from its sleep , and the Prince was seized and bound . 
However , what troubled him most was the idea of having to meet the Frog who had been his benefactress . 
'You must learn to do as you are told , was all the Frog would reply . 
But poor Saphir was so unhappy , and begged so hard for forgiveness , that at last the Frog's anger gave way , and she held up to him a tiny diamond stone . 
'Go back , she said , 'to the castle , and bury this little diamond close to the door . 
But be careful not to return to the stable or to the bedroom they have proved too fatal to you . 
Perched on this tree you will see the beautiful bird you have been seeking so long . 
You must cut the branch on which it is sitting , and bring it back to me without delay . 
But I warn you solemnly that if you disobey my directions , as you have done twice before , you have nothing more to expect either of me or anyone else . 
With these words she jumped into the water , and the Prince , who had taken her threats much to heart , took his departure , firmly resolved not to deserve them . 
'What ! Madam ! he cried , hardly knowing what he said . 
'Oh , madam , replied he , 'you can never guess the days and the hours I have passed lost in admiration of you . 
'Ah , my lord , she replied , with rather an awkward air , 'as to the Frog , she stands before you . 
Let me tell you my story it is not a long one . 
I know neither my country nor my parents , and the only thing I can say for certain is that I am called Serpentine . 
I have always lived in seclusion , and for the last two years I have wished for nothing better . 
I had a mirror' here shyness and embarrassment choked her words but regaining her self control , she added , 'You know that fairies insist on being obeyed without questioning . 
However , there was no help for it , and , painful as it was , I had to submit . 
On this Saphir explained about the state of his father's health , and all that has been told before . 
On hearing this story Serpentine grew very sad , and her lovely eyes filled with tears . 
In vain Saphir declared that love made them equal Serpentine would only reply 'I love you too much to allow you to marry beneath your rank . 
I shall be very unhappy , of course , but I shall never alter my mind . 
If I do not find from the fairies that my birth is worthy of you , then , whatever be my feelings , I will never accept your hand . 
, began fondling him as well as a bird can do . 
Then they all fell into each other's arms , till the fairy mounted her chariot , placed Aglantine by her side , and Saphir and Serpentine on the front seat . 
She also sent a message to the Prince's attendants that they might travel slowly back to the Court of King Peridor , and that the beautiful bird had really been found . 
This matter being comfortably arranged , she started off her chariot . 
But in spite of the swiftness with which they flew through the air , the time passed even quicker for Saphir and Serpentine , who had so much to think about . 
They were still quite confused with the pleasure of seeing each other , when the chariot arrived at King Peridor's palace . 
He had had himself carried to a room on the roof , where his nurses thought that he would die at any moment . 
Directly the chariot drew within sight of the castle the beautiful bird took flight , and , making straight for the dying King , at once cured him of his sickness . 
Then she resumed her natural shape , and he found that the bird was no other than the Queen Constance , whom he had long believed to be dead . 
The people of the kingdom were delighted , and everybody lived happy and contented to the end of their lives . 
THE SEVEN HEADED SERPENT 'Die Siebenkopfige Schlange , from Schmidt's Griechische Mahrchen . 
Once upon a time there was a king who determined to take a long voyage . 
He assembled his fleet and all the seamen , and set out . 
They went straight on night and day , until they came to an island which was covered with large trees , and under every tree lay a lion . 
As soon as the King had landed his men , the lions all rose up together and tried to devour them . 
After a long battle they managed to overcome the wild beasts , but the greater number of the men were killed . 
Those who remained alive now went on through the forest and found on the other side of it a beautiful garden , in which all the plants of the world flourished together . 
There were also in the garden three springs the first flowed with silver , the second with gold , and the third with pearls . 
The men unbuckled their knapsacks and filled them with those precious things . 
Then the Lake said , 'You do well to be afraid , for it is at your peril that you are come hither . 
This is what you must do if you wish to save your lives . 
Take off your clothes and spread them on the path which leads from here to the castle . 
The King will then glide over something soft , which he likes very much , and he will be so pleased with that that he will not devour you . 
He will give you some punishment , but then he will let you go . 
The men did as the Lake advised them , and waited for a time . 
The King commanded that the men should be brought before him . 
They came humbly on their knees , and in a few words told him their story . 
Then he spoke to them with a mighty and terrible voice , and said , 'Because you have dared to come here , I lay upon you the punishment . 
Every year you must bring me from among your people twelve youths and twelve maidens , that I may devour them . 
If you do not do this , I will destroy your whole nation . 
Then he desired one of his beasts to show the men the way out of the garden , and dismissed them . 
They then left the island and went back to their own country , where they related what had happened to them . 
Soon the time came round when the king of the beasts would expect the youths and maidens to be brought to him . 
When they arrived there they went at once to the Lake , and this time the lions did not stir , nor did the springs flow , and neither did the Lake speak . 
So they waited then , and it was not long before the earth quaked even more terribly than the first time . 
The Seven headed Serpent came without his train of beasts , saw his prey waiting for him , and devoured it at one mouthful . 
Then the ship's crew returned home , and the same thing happened yearly until many years had passed . 
Now the King of this unhappy country was growing old , and so was the Queen , and they had no children . 
One day the Queen was sitting at the window weeping bitterly because she was childless , and knew that the crown would therefore pass to strangers after the King's death . 
'Is that what vexes you ? said the old woman . 
I am a nun from the Spinning Convent , and my mother when she died left me this apple . 
Whoever eats this apple shall have a child . 
The Queen gave money to the old woman , and bought the apple from her . 
After a time the Queen had a little boy , and the mare also had a male foal . 
The boy and the foal grew up together and loved each other like brothers . 
In course of time the King died , and so did the Queen , and their son , who was now nineteen years old , was left alone . 
If you go on every year sending twelve youths and twelve maidens to the King of the Beasts , your country will very soon be ruined . 
Mount upon my back I will take you to a woman who can direct you how to kill the Seven headed Serpent . 
Then the youth mounted his horse , who carried him far away to a mountain which was hollow , for in its side was a great underground cavern . 
In the cavern sat an old woman spinning . 
This was the cloister of the nuns , and the old woman was the Abbess . 
They all spent their time in spinning , and that is why the convent has this name . 
All round the walls of the cavern there were beds cut out of the solid rock , upon which the nuns slept , and in the middle a light was burning . 
As soon as the King's son saw the old Abbess spinning he threw himself at her feet and entreated her to tell him how he could kill the Seven headed Serpent . 
I will tell you what you have to do . 
Load your horse with cotton , and go by a secret passage which I will show you , which is hidden from the wild beasts , to the Serpent's palace . 
You will find the King asleep upon his bed , which is all hung round with bells , and over his bed you will see a sword hanging . 
With this sword only it is possible to kill the Serpent , because even if its blade breaks a new one will grow again for every head the monster has . 
Thus you will be able to cut off all his seven heads . 
Then take down the sword gently , and quickly give the monster a blow on his tail with it . 
This will make him waken up , and if he catches sight of you he will seize you . 
But you must quickly cut off his first head , and then wait till the next one comes up . 
Then strike it off also , and so go on till you have cut off all his seven heads . 
They pursued him as fast as they could , but they found it impossible to overtake him , and he reached home in safety . 
Thus he freed his country from this terrible oppression . 
THE GRATEFUL BEASTS From the Hungarian . 
So the sons determined to set out into the world and to try their luck . 
Before starting their mother gave them each a loaf of bread and her blessing , and having taken a tender farewell of her and their father the three set forth on their travels . 
One day all the three were sitting resting under a tree , for the sun was hot and they were tired of walking . 
If we could only get him out of the way we might succeed better . 
His eldest brother was delighted with this proposal , and the two wicked wretches seized Ferko's loaf and ate it all up , while the poor boy was still asleep . 
Ferko was at a loss to understand how he could have eaten in his sleep , but he said nothing , and fasted all that day and the next night . 
But on the following morning he was so hungry that he burst into tears , and implored his brothers to give him a little bit of their bread . 
But the more Ferko wept and told his brothers that he was dying of hunger , the more they laughed and scolded him for his greed . 
After his brothers had thus successfully maimed and disfigured him for life , they left him groaning on the ground and continued their journey without him . 
Poor Ferko ate up the scrap of bread they had left him and wept bitterly , but no one heard him or came to his help . 
Night came on , and the poor blind youth had no eyes to close , and could only crawl along the ground , not knowing in the least where he was going . 
But when the sun was once more high in the heavens , Ferko felt the blazing heat scorch him , and sought for some cool shady place to rest his aching limbs . 
He climbed to the top of a hill and lay down in the grass , and as he thought under the shadow of a big tree . 
But it was no tree he leant against , but a gallows on which two ravens were seated . 
And so they flew away . 
Their words rejoiced Ferko's heart , and he waited impatiently till evening should come and he could rub the precious dew on his sightless eyes . 
At last it began to grow dusk , and the sun sank behind the mountains gradually it became cooler on the hill , and the grass grew wet with dew . 
Then Ferko buried his face in the ground till his eyes were damp with dewdrops , and in a moment he saw clearer than he had ever done in his life before . 
The moon was shining brightly , and lighted him to the lake where he could bathe his poor broken legs . 
Then Ferko crawled to the edge of the lake and dipped his limbs in the water . 
He filled a bottle with the healing water , and then continued his journey in the best of spirits . 
He had not gone far before he met a wolf , who was limping disconsolately along on three legs , and who on perceiving Ferko began to howl dismally . 
The grateful creature thanked his benefactor warmly , and promised Ferko to do him a good turn if he should ever need it . 
Ferko continued his way till he came to a ploughed field . 
Here he noticed a little mouse creeping wearily along on its hind paws , for its front paws had both been broken in a trap . 
Ferko felt so sorry for the little beast that he spoke to it in the most friendly manner , and washed its small paws with the healing water . 
In a moment the mouse was sound and whole , and after thanking the kind physician it scampered away over the ploughed furrows . 
Ferko was no less willing to help her than he had been to help the wolf and the mouse , so he poured some healing drops over the wounded wing . 
On the spot the queen bee was cured , and turning to Ferko she said , 'I am most grateful for your kindness , and shall reward you some day . 
And with these words she flew away humming , gaily . 
Then Ferko wandered on for many a long day , and at length reached a strange kingdom . 
So he went to the royal palace , and as he entered the door the first people he saw were his two brothers who had so shamefully ill treated him . 
His brothers noticed this , and envy and jealousy were added to their fear , so much so that they determined once more to destroy him . 
They went to the King and told him that Ferko was a wicked magician , who had come to the palace with the intention of carrying off the Princess . 
And turning to the two wicked brothers he said , 'Suggest something for him to do no matter how difficult , he must succeed in it or die . 
The King was pleased with this proposal , and commanded Ferko to set to work on the following day . 
The two brothers were delighted , for they thought they had now got rid of Ferko for ever . 
The poor youth himself was heart broken , and cursed the hour he had crossed the boundary of the King's domain . 
Just stay here till I come again and tell you that it is finished . 
Having said this she flew merrily away , and Ferko , reassured by her words , lay down on the grass and slept peacefully till the next morning . 
Early on the following day the whole town was on its feet , and everyone wondered how and where the stranger would build the wonderful palace . 
The Princess alone was silent and sorrowful , and had cried all night till her pillow was wet , so much did she take the fate of the beautiful youth to heart . 
Ferko spent the whole day in the meadows waiting the return of the bee . 
And when evening was come the queen bee flew by , and perching on his shoulder she said , 'The wonderful palace is ready . 
Be of good cheer , and lead the King to the hill just outside the city walls . 
And humming gaily she flew away again . 
Ferko went at once to the King and told him the palace was finished . 
The whole court went out to see the wonder , and their astonishment was great at the sight which met their eyes . 
A splendid palace reared itself on the hill just outside the walls of the city , made of the most exquisite flowers that ever grew in mortal garden . 
This splendid palace had been built by the grateful queen bee , who had summoned all the other bees in the kingdom to help her . 
The King's amazement knew no bounds , and the Princess's eyes beamed with delight as she turned them from the wonderful building on the delighted Ferko . 
But the two brothers had grown quite green with envy , and only declared the more that Ferko was nothing but a wicked magician . 
But he could think of no way of escape . 
'Is that all ? answered the mouse 'that needn't distress you much . 
Just trust in me , and before the sun sets again you shall hear that your task is done . 
And with these words the little creature scampered away into the fields . 
Ferko , who never doubted that the mouse would be as good as its word , lay down comforted on the soft grass and slept soundly till next morning . 
Then Ferko went joyfully to the King and told him that all he demanded had been done . 
And the whole Court went out to see the wonder , and were no less astonished than they had been the first time . 
For in a heap higher than the King's palace lay all the grain of the country , and not a single stalk of corn had been left behind in any of the fields . 
Only the beautiful Princess rejoiced over Ferko's success , and looked on him with friendly glances , which the youth returned . 
The eldest answered quickly , 'Let him drive all the wolves of the kingdom on to this hill before to morrow night . 
If he does this he may go free if not he shall be hung as you have said . 
Ferko wandered out into the fields again , and sat down on the stump of a tree wondering what he should do next . 
Suddenly a big wolf ran up to him , and standing still said , 'I'm very glad to see you again , my kind benefactor . 
Ferko at once recognised the wolf whose broken leg he had healed , and told him what he had to do the following day if he wished to escape with his life . 
I'll undertake the task , and you'll hear from me again before sunset to morrow . 
And with these words he trotted quickly away . 
He lay down once more on the grass and soon fell fast asleep . 
Go quickly to the King , and tell him to go to the hill that he may see the wonder you have done with his own eyes . 
Then return at once to me and get on my back , and I will help you to drive all the wolves together . 
Then Ferko went straight to the palace and told the King that he was ready to perform the third task if he would come to the hill and see it done . 
Ferko himself returned to the fields , and mounting on the wolf's back he rode to the wood close by . 
He drove them all before him on to the hill , where the King and his whole Court and Ferko's two brothers were standing . 
Only the lovely Princess was not present , for she was shut up in her tower weeping bitterly . 
The wicked brothers stamped and foamed with rage when they saw the failure of their wicked designs . 
The King in his terror called out , 'Stop a moment I will give you half my kingdom if you will drive all the wolves away . 
But Ferko pretended not to hear , and drove some more thousands before him , so that everyone quaked with horror and fear . 
Then Ferko went straight to the palace and set the Princess free , and on the same day he married her and was crowned King of the country . 
THE GIANTS AND THE HERD BOY From the Bukowniaer . 
There was once upon a time a poor boy who had neither father nor mother . 
In order to gain a living he looked after the sheep of a great Lord . 
Now one night , when he was sitting on the grass beside his flocks , he heard not very far from him the sound as of some one crying . 
He rose up and followed the direction of the noise . 
On the contrary , I will reward you handsomely if you will bind up my foot . 
I hurt it when I was trying to root up an oak tree . 
The Herd boy took off his shirt , and bound up the Giant's wounded foot with it . 
Then the Giant rose up and said , 'Now come and I will reward you . 
We are going to celebrate a marriage to day , and I promise you we shall have plenty of fun . 
Come and enjoy yourself , but in order that my brothers mayn't see you , put this band round your waist and then you'll be invisible . 
The wounded Giant remained behind to the last and called out , 'Herd boy , where are you ? 'Here I am , close to you , was the reply . 
'Touch me , said the Giant , 'so that you too may come with us under ground . 
Then to his astonishment he saw that the hall was furnished with the tables and chairs that belonged to his master . 
In a few minutes the company began to eat and drink . 
The banquet was a very gorgeous one , and the poor youth fell to and ate and drank lustily . 
So he seized a loaf when no one was looking and stowed it away under his tunic . 
No sooner had he done so than the wounded Giant limped up to him and whispered softly , 'Herd boy , where are you ? 'Here I am , replied the youth . 
'Then hold on to me , said the Giant , 'so that I may lead you up above again . 
So the Herd boy held on to the Giant , and in a few moments he found himself on the earth once more , but the Giant had vanished . 
The Herd boy returned to his sheep , and took off the invisible belt which he hid carefully in his bag . 
The next morning the lad felt hungry , and thought he would cut off a piece of the loaf he had carried away from the Giants' wedding feast , and eat it . 
But although he tried with all his might , he couldn't cut off the smallest piece . 
Then in despair he bit the loaf , and what was his astonishment when a piece of gold fell out of his mouth and rolled at his feet . 
He bit the bread a second and third time , and each time a piece of gold fell out of his mouth but the bread remained untouched . 
Now the Lord whose sheep the Herd boy looked after had a very lovely daughter , who always smiled and nodded to the youth when she walked with her father in his fields . 
For a long time the Herd boy had made up his mind to prepare a surprise for this beautiful creature on her birthday . 
The girl's joy was great , and so was her parents' next day when they found the sack full of gold pieces . 
The Herd boy was so pleased to think what pleasure he had given that the next night he placed another bag of gold beside the girl's bed . 
And this he continued to do for seven nights , and the girl and her parents made up their minds that it must be a good Fairy who brought the gold every night . 
But one night they determined to watch , and see from their hiding place who the bringer of the sack of gold really was . 
On the eighth night a fearful storm of wind and rain came on while the Herd boy was on his way to bring the beautiful girl another bag of gold . 
Then for the first time he noticed , just as he reached his master's house , that he had forgotten the belt which made him invisible . 
'As you have hitherto always behaved well in my service I will not send you to prison but leave your place instantly and never let me see your face again . 
So the Herd boy went back to his hut , and taking his loaf and belt with him , he went to the nearest town . 
There he bought himself some fine clothes , and a beautiful coach with four horses , hired two servants , and drove back to his master . 
This was readily granted , and the two lived in peace and happiness to the end of their lives . 
THE INVISIBLE PRINCE Once upon a time there lived a Fairy who had power over the earth , the sea , fire , and the air and this Fairy had four sons . 
The eldest , who was quick and lively , with a vivid imagination , she made Lord of Fire , which was in her opinion the noblest of all the elements . 
To the second son , whose wisdom and prudence made amends for his being rather dull , she gave the government of the earth . 
The youngest , who was the slave of his passions and of a very uncertain temper , became Prince of the Air . 
Now it is all very well to abuse the God of Love , but a man cannot struggle against his fate . 
This kingdom was situated in the Island of Roses , where the climate is so delicious that the grass is always green and the flowers always sweet . 
The waves , instead of beating on the rocks , seemed to die gently on the shore clusters of golden bushes covered the land , and the vines were bent low with grapes . 
The King of this island had a daughter named Rosalie , who was more lovely than any girl in the whole world . 
He instantly began to think how best to make himself happy , and the shortest way that occurred to him was to have Rosalie carried off by his attendant spirits . 
It is easy to imagine the feelings of the King when he found that his daughter had vanished . 
He wept her loss night and day , and his only comfort was to talk over it with a young and unknown prince , who had just arrived at the Court . 
Alas ! he did not know what a deep interest the stranger had in Rosalie , for he too had seen her , and had fallen a victim to her charms . 
'You are trying to soothe me by vain promises , answered the King . 
But go , generous stranger bring back Rosalie if you can , and live happy with her ever after in this country , of which I now declare you heir . 
The walls , washed by the quiet waters , were covered with gold , which made one think of the yellow sands . 
Above them was a rampart of orange and lemon trees , and all the streets were paved with gold . 
The King of this beautiful island had one son , for whom a life of adventure had been foretold at his birth . 
In this way the good fairy hoped that the Prince would be protected against all dangers . 
No sooner did the Prince begin to grow out of boyhood than he longed to see if the other countries of the world were as splendid as the one in which he lived . 
So , under pretence of visiting some small islands that belonged to his father , he set out . 
By this means he passed through the midst of them unseen , and wandered on till he reached the coast , where he re embarked on board his ship . 
The first land he sighted was the Island of Roses , and he went at once to the court of the King , Rosalie's father . 
The moment his eyes beheld the Princess , he fell in love with her like everyone else . 
He had already spent several months in this condition when the Prince of the Air whirled her away , to the grief and despair of every man on the island . 
But sad though everybody was , the Prince of the Golden Isle was perfectly inconsolable , and he passed both days and nights in bemoaning his loss . 
So saying , he left the court , and made ready for his journey . 
He hastened his steps , and quickly arrived at the gate of the palace , which was formed of a single agate . 
Everything around was rare and beautiful , but the Prince scarcely raised his eyes to all these wonders . 
He thought only of the Princess and where he should find her , but in vain he opened every door and searched in every corner he neither saw Rosalie nor anyone else . 
Three of these were empty except for statues and wonderful things , but in the fourth the Invisible Prince caught sight of Rosalie . 
His joy at beholding her again was , however , somewhat lessened by seeing that the Prince of the Air was kneeling at her feet , and pleading his own cause . 
But it was in vain that he implored her to listen she only shook her head . 
'No , was all she would say 'you snatched me from my father whom I loved , and all the splendour in the world can never console me . 
Go ! I can never feel anything towards you but hate and contempt . 
With these words she turned away and entered her own apartments . 
At these words the Prince could contain himself no longer . 
He took the pebble from his mouth , and flung himself at Rosalie's feet . 
When they had got over the first rapture of meeting they began to make plans to escape from the power of the Prince of the Air . 
But Rosalie would not hear of this . 
'No , Prince , she said 'since you are here this island no longer feels a prison . 
Besides , you are under the protection of a Fairy , who always visits your father's court at this season . 
Go instantly and seek her , and when she is found implore the gift of another stone with similar powers . 
Once you have that , there will be no further difficulty in the way of escape . 
The Prince of the Air returned a few days later from his mother's palace , but the Invisible Prince had already set out . 
As our hero had the magic stone in his mouth they imagined themselves alone , and did not lower their voices . 
You know that I have in my palace the cabinets of the years . 
In the first , great mirrors reflect the past in the second , we contemplate the present in the third , the future can be read . 
It was here that I fled after I had gazed on the Princess Argentine , but instead of love I only saw scorn and contempt . 
So he joyfully returned to his father's palace , where he found his friend the Fairy , who at once presented him with a magic pebble like his own . 
But though he found the palace he did not find Rosalie . 
This sight only increased the misery of the Prince , for he did not know where the castle was , nor how to set about finding it . 
However , he resolved to seek the whole world through till he came to the right place . 
He began by setting sail in a favourable wind , but his bad luck followed him even on the sea . 
They were terrible indeed to look upon . 
The invisible Prince recognised these dead men as Kings of two large islands near his own home , but the names of the Princesses were unknown to him . 
In vain the Prince rushed to their assistance and strove to undo the cord . 
He could not loosen it so he buried them like the others and continued his path . 
But he could not forget the terrible things he had seen , and hoped eagerly for a clue to the mystery . 
Noticing two young people talking together , he drew near thinking that he might get some explanation of what puzzled him . 
She carries off the lovers who have been cast away by their mistresses , and wish to have done with life . 
Then the cord is pulled and they lie where they fall , till they are buried by the first passer by . 
Terrible as this death would be , added the Prince , 'it would be sweeter than life if I had lost your love . 
As he looked a woman rose from the depths of the sea , flying madly before a furious giant . 
The giant then hastily rejoined his prey , and , seizing her in his arms , he plunged her into the sea . 
On the tallest of the rocks sat the giant as on a throne . 
'Rash mortal , said he , when the Prince was dragged before him , 'you have deserved death , but you shall live only to suffer more cruelly . 
Go , and add to the number of those whom it is my pleasure to torture . 
Indeed , it was his chief delight to create a storm , in order to add to the list of his prisoners . 
But at last the time came when the giant took it into his head to amuse himself by arranging fights between some of his captives . 
Lots were drawn , and one fell upon our Prince , whose chains were immediately loosened . 
The moment he was set free , he snatched up his stone , and became invisible . 
The astonishment of the giant at the sudden disappearance of the Prince may well be imagined . 
He ordered all the passages to be watched , but it was too late , for the Prince had already glided between two rocks . 
Filled with joy , he made his way to the top of the mountain which pierced the clouds , and there he found a palace . 
He entered , and in the middle of a long gallery he discovered a crystal room , in the midst of which sat Rosalie , guarded night and day by genii . 
There was no door anywhere , nor any window . 
At this sight the Prince became more puzzled than ever , for he did not know how he was to warn Rosalie of his return . 
Yet it broke his heart to see her weeping from dawn till dark . 
This was enough to cause the Princess to suspect that her lover had returned . 
At first the only favour she asked was to be allowed to walk for one hour every day up and down the long gallery . 
This was granted , and the Invisible Prince speedily took the opportunity of handing her the stone , which she at once slipped into her mouth . 
No words can paint the fury of her captor at her disappearance . 
He ordered the spirits of the air to fly through all space , and to bring back Rosalie wherever she might be . 
They instantly flew off to obey his commands , and spread themselves over the whole earth . 
Meantime Rosalie and the Invisible Prince had reached , hand in hand , a door of the gallery which led through a terrace into the gardens . 
But , alas ! the joy of liberty lasted but a short time . 
The Princess , having wandered in vain up and down the forest , stopped at last on the edge of a fountain . 
These words were read by one of the genii , who repeated them to his master . 
The Prince of the Air , in his turn making himself invisible , was led to the fountain , and waited for Rosalie . 
He felt so overwhelmed by despair that he thought for an instant of putting an end to his life . 
'Can I survive my misfortunes ? he cried . 
'I fancied I had come to an end of my troubles , and now they are worse than ever . 
What will become of me ? Never can I discover the place where this monster will hide Rosalie . 
So he continued to walk on through the forest , and after some hours he arrived at the gate of a temple , guarded by two huge lions . 
Being invisible , he was able to enter unharmed . 
In the middle of the temple was an altar , on which lay a book , and behind the altar hung a great curtain . 
Now , as the Prince had not the smallest idea where this fountain was to be found , it might be thought that he was not much nearer Rosalie than before . 
This was not , however , the view taken by the Prince . 
'Though every step that I take may perhaps lead me further from her , he said to himself , 'I am still thankful to know that she is alive somewhere . 
On leaving the temple the Invisible Prince saw six paths lying before him , each of which led through the wood . 
He was hesitating which to choose , when he suddenly beheld two people coming towards him , down the track which lay most to his right . 
And as if this were not enough , I have the horror of feeling that she probably loves another . 
So I have resolved to put myself out of my pain by means of the Golden Fountain . 
A single drop of its water falling on the sand around will trace the name of my rival in her heart . 
I dread the test , and yet this very dread convinces me of my misfortune . 
It may be imagined that after listening to these words the Invisible Prince followed Prince Gnome like his shadow , and after walking some time they arrived at the Golden Fountain . 
The unhappy lover stooped down with a sigh , and dipping his finger in the water let fall a drop on the sand . 
It instantly wrote the name of Prince Flame , his brother . 
The shock of this discovery was so real , that Prince Gnome sank fainting into the arms of his friend . 
Meanwhile the Invisible Prince was turning over in his mind how he could best deliver Rosalie . 
The Prince promptly guessed that the cord was used to chain the Princess , and drew his sword and cut it . 
So hand in hand the invisible Prince and Rosalie crossed the mountain but as the Princess had no power of living under water , she could not pass the Golden Fountain . 
Speechless and invisible they clung together on the brink , trembling at the frightful tempest the Prince of the Air had raised in his fury . 
The storm had already lasted many days when tremendous heat began to make itself felt . 
The lightning flashed , the thunder rattled , fire bolts fell from heaven , burning up the forests and even the fields of corn . 
In one instant the very streams were dried up , and the Prince , seizing his opportunity , carried the Princess over the Golden Fountain . 
THE CROW From the Polish . 
One day when she was pacing to and fro under the lime trees , a black crow hopped out of a rose bush in front of her . 
The poor beast was all torn and bleeding , and the kind little Princess was quite unhappy about it . 
If you only liked , Princess , you could save me . 
But you would have to say good bye to all your own people and come and be my constant companion in this ruined castle . 
The good natured Princess at once left her home and her family and hurried to the ruined castle , and took possession of the room with the golden bed . 
When night approached she lay down , but though she shut her eyes tight sleep would not come . 
They at once proceeded to light a fire in the huge fireplace then they placed a great cauldron of boiling water on it . 
When they had done this , they approached the bed on which the trembling girl lay , and , screaming and yelling all the time , they dragged her towards the cauldron . 
She nearly died with fright , but she never uttered a sound . 
Then of a sudden the cock crew , and all the evil spirits vanished . 
At the same moment the crow appeared and hopped all round the room with joy . 
It thanked the Princess most heartily for her goodness , and said that its sufferings had already been greatly lessened . 
Now one of the Princess's elder sisters , who was very inquisitive , had found out about everything , and went to pay her youngest sister a visit in the ruined castle . 
She implored her so urgently to let her spend the night with her in the golden bed , that at last the good natured little Princess consented . 
But at midnight , when the odd folk appeared , the elder sister screamed with terror , and from this time on the youngest Princess insisted always on keeping watch alone . 
But before I can resume my natural form , and take possession of the belongings of my forefathers , you must go out into the world and take service as a maidservant . 
One evening , when she was spinning flax , and had worked her little white hands weary , she heard a rustling beside her and a cry of joy . 
Then she saw a handsome youth standing beside her who knelt down at her feet and kissed the little weary white hands . 
'I am the Prince , he said , 'who you in your goodness , when I was wandering about in the shape of a black crow , freed from the most awful torments . 
Come now to my castle with me , and let us live there happily together . 
So they went to the castle where they had both endured so much . 
But when they reached it , it was difficult to believe that it was the same , for it had all been rebuilt and done up again . 
And there they lived for a hundred years , a hundred years of joy and happiness . 
'Wait , he said 'that does not please me only let me find the right people , and the King shall yet give me all the treasures of his kingdom . 
He strode angrily into the forest , and there he saw a man standing who had uprooted six trees as if they were straws . 
'Oh , go with me , said the man 'if we three are together we shall easily travel through the wide world . 
The man said , 'I don't know what is turning those windmills there is not the slightest breeze blowing . 
'Fellow , what are you puffing at up there ? asked the man . 
He replied , 'Two miles from this place are standing seven windmills see , I am blowing to drive them round . 
'Oh , go with me , said the man 'if we four are together we shall easily travel through the wide world . 
'Oh , go with me if we five are together , we shall easily travel through the wide world . 
So he went with him , and , not long afterwards , they met a man who wore a little hat , but he had it slouched over one ear . 
'Oh , go with me , said the master 'if we six are together , we shall easily travel through the wide world . 
This was reported to the man who declared he would compete , 'but , he said , 'I shall let my servant run for me . 
The King replied , 'Then both your heads must be staked , and your head and his must be guaranteed for the winner . 
In a short time he reached the stream , filled his pitcher with water , and turned round again . 
But , half way home , a great drowsiness came over him he put down his pitcher , lay down , and fell asleep . 
He had , however , put a horse's skull which was lying on the ground , for his pillow , so that he should not be too comfortable and might soon wake up . 
When she saw the runner lying there asleep , she was delighted , and said , 'My enemy is given into my hands ! She emptied his pitcher and ran on . 
Everything now would have been lost , if by good luck the hunter had not been standing on the castle tower and had seen everything with his sharp eyes . 
Then the runner awoke , jumped up , and saw that his pitcher was empty and the King's daughter far ahead . 
'Look , said he , 'I have only just exercised my legs that was nothing of a run . 
But the King was angry , and his daughter even more so , that she should be carried away by a common , discharged soldier . 
They consulted together how they could destroy both him and his companions . 
'Then , said the King to her , 'I have found a way . 
Don't be frightened they shall not come home again . 
In the room was a table spread with delicious food . 
The King said to them , 'Go in and enjoy yourselves , and as soon as they were inside he had the doors shut and bolted . 
Then he made the cook come , and ordered him to keep up a large fire under the room until the iron was red hot . 
When a couple of hours had passed , and the King thought they must be quite dead from the heat , he had the doors opened and went in himself to see . 
Then the King went angrily to the cook , and scolded him , and asked him why he had not done what he was told . 
But the cook answered , 'There is heat enough there see for yourself . 
Then the King saw a huge fire burning under the iron room , and understood that he could do no harm to the Six in this way . 
The King now began again to think how he could free himself from his unwelcome guests . 
'Oh , yes , your Majesty , answered he , 'give me as much as my servant can carry , and I will give up your daughter . 
The King was delighted , and the man said , 'I will come and fetch it in fourteen days . 
Then he called all the tailors in the kingdom together , and made them sit down for fourteen days sewing at a sack . 
When it was finished , he made the strong man who had uprooted the trees take the sack on his shoulder and go with him to the King . 
'Bring more , he cried , 'these crumbs don't fill it . 
So seven thousand waggons of the gold of the whole kingdom were driven up these the strong man shoved into the sack , oxen and all . 
'I will no longer be particular , he said , 'and will take what comes , so that the sack shall be full . 
Then he threw it on his back and went with his companions . 
Two regiments soon overtook them , and called to them , 'You are prisoners ! lay down the sack of gold or you shall be cut down . 
A sergeant major cried for mercy , saying he had nine wounds , and was a brave fellow , and did not deserve this disgrace . 
So the blower let him off , and he came down without hurt . 
Then he said to him , 'Now go home to the King , and say that if he sends any more cavalry I will blow them all into the air . 
When the King received the message , he said , 'Let the fellows go they are bewitched . 
Then the Six brought the treasure home , shared it among themselves , and lived contentedly till the end of their days . 
THE WIZARD KING From Les fees illustres . 
In very ancient times there lived a King , whose power lay not only in the vast extent of his dominions , but also in the magic secrets of which he was master . 
After a year's time a son was born , worthy in every way of such distinguished parents , and much admired by the whole Court . 
As soon as the Queen thought him strong enough for a journey she set out with him secretly to visit her Fairy godmother . 
Accordingly , to the delight of his teachers , he made the most rapid progress in his education , constantly surpassing everyone's expectations . 
Neither time nor reason seemed to lighten his sorrow , and the sight of all the familiar faces and things about him only served to remind him of his loss . 
A wide stream flowed through the garden , and on it floated richly ornamented barges and gondolas filled with people dressed in the most elegant manner and covered with jewels . 
In one of these barges sat the Queen of that country with her only daughter , a maiden more beautiful than the Day Star , and attended by the ladies of the Court . 
No more exquisitely lovely mortal was ever seen than this Princess , and it needed all an eagle's strength of sight to prevent the King being hopelessly dazzled . 
He perched on the top of a large orange tree , whence he was able to survey the scene and to gaze at pleasure on the Princess's charms . 
At length , when he thought they had reached a safe distance , he began to lower his flight , and gradually descending to earth , deposited his burden in a flowery meadow . 
For some time the Princess remained speechless but recovering herself a little , she burst into a flood of tears . 
The King , much moved , said , 'Adorable Princess , dry your tears . 
My only wish is to make you the happiest person in the world . 
'If you speak truth , my lord , replied the Princess , 'restore to me the liberty you have deprived me of . 
Otherwise I can only look on you as my worst enemy . 
So saying , he seized her once more , and in spite of all her cries he rapidly bore her off to the neighbourhood of his capital . 
Here he gently placed her on a lawn , and as he did so she saw a magnificent palace spring up at her feet . 
The architecture was imposing , and in the interior the rooms were handsome and furnished in the best possible taste . 
The King hoped , however , that time might not only soften her anger , but accustom her to his sight . 
He took the precaution of surrounding the palace with a dense cloud , and then hastened to his Court , where his prolonged absence was causing much anxiety . 
The Prince and all the courtiers were delighted to see their beloved King again , but they had to submit themselves to more frequent absences than ever on his part . 
He made business a pretext for shutting himself up in his study , but it was really in order to spend the time with the Princess , who remained inflexible . 
This idea made him horribly uneasy , and he resolved to remove the cause of his fears by sending the Prince on his travels escorted by a magnificent retinue . 
The Prince , after visiting several Courts , arrived at the one where the lost Princess was still deeply mourned . 
The King and Queen received him most graciously , and some festivities were revived to do him honour . 
One day when the Prince was visiting the Queen in her own apartments he was much struck by a most beautiful portrait . 
The Prince was deeply moved , and vowed that he would search the world for the Princess , and take no rest till he had found and restored her to her mother's arms . 
The Queen assured him of her eternal gratitude , and promised , should he succeed , to give him her daughter in marriage , together with all the estates she herself owned . 
After listening attentively to the whole adventure , the Fairy asked for time to consult her books . 
This , she added , did not appear impossible , as it often flew about to some distance in the neighbourhood . 
Having told the Prince all this , the Fairy went out in hopes of seeing the parrot , and soon returned with the bird in her hand . 
The Prince reached the palace in safety , but was so dazzled at first by the Princess's beauty , which far surpassed his expectations , that he was quite dumb for a time . 
The Princess was surprised and anxious , and fearing the parrot , who was her greatest comfort , had fallen ill , she took him in her hand and caressed him . 
This soon reassured the Prince , and encouraged him to play his part well , and he began to say a thousand agreeable things which charmed the Princess . 
Presently the King appeared , and the parrot noticed with joy how much he was disliked . 
The parrot said so many clever and tender things to comfort her that she began to doubt whether this could indeed be her own parrot . 
I am here on behalf of the Queen your mother , with the object of delivering your Highness to prove which , behold this portrait which she gave me herself . 
So saying he drew forth the miniature from under his wing . 
When he found her listening attentively to him , he implored the Princess to allow him to resume his natural shape . 
This was done in a few minutes , and the Princess , stepping into the chariot with the Prince , was delighted to find her parrot again . 
As they rose through the air the Princess remarked a figure mounted on an eagle's back flying in front of the chariot . 
That same morning the King woke suddenly from a troubled sleep . 
He had dreamt that the Princess was being carried off from him , and , transforming himself into an eagle , he flew to the palace . 
You may imagine the rapture with which the Queen received the daughter she had given up for lost , as well as the amiable Prince who had rescued her . 
The Queen hastened to inform the King her husband , and the wedding took place on the spot . 
As the ceremony was completed the Wizard King arrived . 
He fell down senseless , and the Princess's father , deeply offended at the cruel revenge which had been attempted , ordered him to be removed and locked up in prison . 
The Prince implored and obtained his father's pardon , and the prison doors were opened . 
Everyone entreated the Fairy to settle in the kingdom where she now was , to which she consented . 
THE NIXY From the German . 
There was once upon a time a miller who was very well off , and had as much money and as many goods as he knew what to do with . 
But sorrow comes in the night , and the miller all of a sudden became so poor that at last he could hardly call the mill in which he sat his own . 
He wandered about all day full of despair and misery , and when he lay down at night he could get no rest , but lay awake all night sunk in sorrowful thoughts . 
One morning he rose up before dawn and went outside , for he thought his heart would be lighter in the open air . 
While he hesitated the nixy spoke , called him by his name , and asked him why he was so sad . 
The miller thought she must mean one of his puppies or kittens , so promised the nixy at once what she asked , and returned to his mill full of hope . 
On the threshold he was greeted by a servant with the news that his wife had just given birth to a boy . 
'I would gladly give up all the good fortune she promised me , he said , 'if I could only save my child . 
But no one could think of any advice to give him , beyond taking care that the child never went near the mill pond . 
So the boy throve and grew big , and in the meantime all prospered with the miller , and in a few years he was richer than he had ever been before . 
In a short time he married a pretty young wife , and lived with her in great peace and happiness . 
One day when he was out hunting a hare sprang up at his feet , and ran for some way in front of him in the open field . 
The hunter pursued it hotly for some time , and at last shot it dead . 
Then he proceeded to skin it , never noticing that he was close to the mill pond , which from childhood up he had been taught to avoid . 
He soon finished the skinning , and went to the water to wash the blood off his hands . 
He had hardly dipped them in the pond when the nixy rose up in the water , and seizing him in her wet arms she dragged him down with her under the waves . 
She was nearly beside herself with grief , and roamed round and round the pond calling on her husband without ceasing . 
The poor wife told her all that had happened and how she had been told in a dream of the witch's power to help her . 
The hunter's wife gave the witch a handsome present , thanked her heartily , and returned home . 
But immediately another wave came , and the head sank back into the water without having said a word . 
The pond lay still and motionless , glittering in the moonshine , and the hunter's wife was not a bit better off than she had been before . 
So next morning she went again to the flowery meadow and sought the witch in her hut , and told her of her grief . 
The old woman counselled her to go to the mill pond the next full moon and play upon a golden flute , and then to lay the flute on the bank . 
As soon as the next moon was full the hunter's wife went to the mill pond , played on a golden flute , and when she had finished placed it on the bank . 
Then he gazed sadly at his wife and stretched out his arms towards her . 
But another rushing wave arose and dragged him under once more . 
The hunter's wife , who had stood on the bank full of joy and hope , sank into despair when she saw her husband snatched away again before her eyes . 
But for her comfort she dreamt the same dream a third time , and betook herself once more to the old witch's hut in the flowery meadow . 
In a few minutes a rushing sound was heard in the waters , and a wave swept the spinning wheel from the bank . 
But the waters of the pond rose up suddenly , overflowed the bank where the couple stood , and dragged them under the flood . 
In her despair the young wife called on the old witch to help her , and in a moment the hunter was turned into a frog and his wife into a toad . 
The hunter determined to become a shepherd , and his wife too became a shepherdess . 
So they herded their sheep for many years in solitude and sadness . 
Now it happened once that the shepherd came to the country where the shepherdess lived . 
The neighbourhood pleased him , and he saw that the pasture was rich and suitable for his flocks . 
So he brought his sheep there , and herded them as before . 
The shepherd and shepherdess became great friends , but they did not recognise each other in the least . 
But one evening when the moon was full they sat together watching their flocks , and the shepherd played upon his flute . 
The shepherd asked her why she was crying , and left her no peace till she told him all her story . 
Then the scales fell from the shepherd's eyes , and he recognised his wife , and she him . 
So they returned joyfully to their own home , and lived in peace and happiness ever after . 
THE GLASS MOUNTAIN From the Polish . 
Anyone who picked an apple gained admittance into the golden castle , and there in a silver room sat an enchanted Princess of surpassing fairness and beauty . 
Many knights had come from afar to try their luck , but it was in vain they attempted to climb the mountain . 
Sometimes they broke an arm , sometimes a leg , and many a brave man had broken his neck even . 
The beautiful Princess sat at her window and watched the bold knights trying to reach her on their splendid horses . 
The sight of her always gave men fresh courage , and they flocked from the four quarters of the globe to attempt the work of rescuing her . 
But all in vain , and for seven years the Princess had sat now and waited for some one to scale the Glass Mountain . 
A heap of corpses both of riders and horses lay round the mountain , and many dying men lay groaning there unable to go any farther with their wounded limbs . 
The whole neighbourhood had the appearance of a vast churchyard . 
The following day he started in the same way the horse trod on the glass as if it had been level earth , and sparks of fire flew from its hoofs . 
Nothing was left of either of them except their bones , which rattled in the battered golden armour like dry peas in a pod . 
And now there was only one more day before the close of the seven years . 
Then there arrived on the scene a mere schoolboy a merry , happy hearted youth , but at the same time strong and well grown . 
He saw how many knights had broken their necks in vain , but undaunted he approached the steep mountain on foot and began the ascent . 
For long he had heard his parents speak of the beautiful Princess who sat in the golden castle at the top of the Glass Mountain . 
He listened to all he heard , and determined that he too would try his luck . 
But first he went to the forest and caught a lynx , and cutting off the creature's sharp claws , he fastened them on to his own hands and feet . 
Armed with these weapons he boldly started up the Glass Mountain . 
The sun was nearly going down , and the youth had not got more than half way up . 
He could hardly draw breath he was so worn out , and his mouth was parched by thirst . 
A huge black cloud passed over his head , but in vain did he beg and beseech her to let a drop of water fall on him . 
He opened his mouth , but the black cloud sailed past and not as much as a drop of dew moistened his dry lips . 
His feet were torn and bleeding , and he could only hold on now with his hands . 
Evening closed in , and he strained his eyes to see if he could behold the top of the mountain . 
It was almost pitch dark now , and only the stars lit up the Glass Mountain . 
The poor boy still clung on as if glued to the glass by his blood stained hands . 
He made no struggle to get higher , for all his strength had left him , and seeing no hope he calmly awaited death . 
Then all of a sudden he fell into a deep sleep , and forgetful of his dangerous position , he slumbered sweetly . 
But all the same , although he slept , he had stuck his sharp claws so firmly into the glass that he was quite safe not to fall . 
Now the golden apple tree was guarded by the eagle which had overthrown the golden knight and his horse . 
Greedy for carrion , and sure that this must be a fresh corpse , the bird swooped down upon the boy . 
But he was awake now , and perceiving the eagle , he determined by its help to save himself . 
The eagle dug its sharp claws into the tender flesh of the youth , but he bore the pain without a sound , and seized the bird's two feet with his hands . 
The creature in terror lifted him high up into the air and began to circle round the tower of the castle . 
The youth held on bravely . 
Then the boy saw that he was close to the apple tree , and drawing a small knife from his belt , he cut off both the eagle's feet . 
The bird rose up in the air in its agony and vanished into the clouds , and the youth fell on to the broad branches of the apple tree . 
He pulled several of the beautiful apples and put them in his pocket then he entered the castle . 
The door was guarded by a great dragon , but as soon as he threw an apple at it , the beast vanished . 
At the same moment a gate opened , and the youth perceived a courtyard full of flowers and beautiful trees , and on a balcony sat the lovely enchanted Princess with her retinue . 
As soon as she saw the youth , she ran towards him and greeted him as her husband and master . 
She gave him all her treasures , and the youth became a rich and mighty ruler . 
But as the eagle had lost its feet it died , and its body was found in a wood on the Glass Mountain . 
He blew his silver whistle , and the swallow who acted as messenger in the golden castle flew past . 
ALPHEGE , OR THE GREEN MONKEY Many years ago there lived a King , who was twice married . 
When the time for the young Prince's christening came the King chose as godmother a neighbouring Princess , so celebrated for her wisdom and goodness that she was commonly called 'the Good Queen . 
She named the baby Alphege , and from that moment took him to her heart . 
Time wipes away the greatest griefs , and after two or three years the King married again . 
His second wife was a Princess of undeniable beauty , but by no means of so amiable a disposition as the first Queen . 
In due time a second Prince was born , and the Queen was devoured with rage at the thought that Prince Alphege came between her son and the throne . 
She took care however to conceal her jealous feelings from the King . 
The 'Good Queen' on her side watched carefully over her godson . 
The Wicked Queen knowing this made every attempt to get the Prince out of the country , but her efforts failed , till one day accident did what she was unable to accomplish . 
The King had an only sister who was deeply attached to him , and who was married to the sovereign of a distant country . 
She had always kept up a close correspondence with her brother , and the accounts she heard of Prince Alphege made her long to become acquainted with so charming a nephew . 
She entreated the King to allow the Prince to visit her , and after some hesitation which was overruled by his wife , he finally consented . 
Prince Alphege was at this time fourteen years old , and the handsomest and most engaging youth imaginable . 
When the Prince set forth on his travels it was but natural that this devoted couple should accompany him , and accordingly he started with them and attended by a numerous retinue . 
For some time he travelled through his father's dominions and all went well but soon after passing the frontier they had to cross a desert plain under a burning sun . 
They were glad to take shelter under a group of trees near , and here the Prince complained of burning thirst . 
Luckily a tiny stream ran close by and some water was soon procured , but no sooner had he tasted it than he sprang from his carriage and disappeared in a moment . 
In vain did his anxious followers seek for him , he was nowhere to be found . 
As they were hunting and shouting through the trees a black monkey suddenly appeared on a point of rock and said 'Poor sorrowing people , you are seeking your Prince in vain . 
Return to your own country and know that he will not be restored to you till you have for some time failed to recognise him . 
The Queen , whose ambition was boundless , was delighted to see the crown on her son's head and to have the power in her own hands . 
Her hard rule made her very unpopular , and it was commonly believed that she had made away with Prince Alphege . 
Indeed , had the King her son not been deservedly beloved a revolution would certainly have arisen . 
The young King was devoted to hunting , and often indulged in his favourite pastime , attended by the noblest youths in his kingdom . 
One day , after a long morning's chase he stopped to rest near a brook in the shade of a little wood , where a splendid tent had been prepared for him . 
Whilst at luncheon he suddenly spied a little monkey of the brightest green sitting on a tree and gazing so tenderly at him that he felt quite moved . 
The monkey took it very daintily and finally came to the table . 
The King took him on his knees , and , delighted with his capture , brought him home with him . 
He would trust no one else with its care , and the whole Court soon talked of nothing but the pretty green monkey . 
One morning , as Prince Alphege's governess and her daughter were alone together , the little monkey sprang in through an open window . 
He had escaped from the palace , and his manners were so gentle and caressing that Zayda and her mother soon got over the first fright he had given them . 
He had spent some time with them and quite won their hearts by his insinuating ways , when the King discovered where he was and sent to fetch him back . 
Next day both mother and daughter were sitting in a jessamine bower in the garden , and they began to talk of the green monkey and his strange ways . 
The mother said , 'My dear child , I can no longer hide my feelings from you . 
I cannot get the thought out of my mind that the green monkey is no other than our beloved Prince Alphege , transformed in this strange fashion . 
I know the idea sounds wild , but I cannot get it out of my heart , and it leaves me no peace . 
As she spoke she glanced up , and there sat the little monkey , whose tears and gestures seemed to confirm her words . 
The following night the elder lady dreamt that she saw the Good Queen , who said , 'Do not weep any longer but follow my directions . 
Go into your garden and lift up the little marble slab at the foot of the great myrtle tree . 
You will find beneath it a crystal vase filled with a bright green liquid . 
Take it with you and place the thing which is at present most in your thoughts into a bath filled with roses and rub it well with the green liquid . 
At these words the sleeper awoke , and lost no time in rising and hurrying to the garden , where she found all as the Good Queen had described . 
Then she hastened to rouse her daughter and together they prepared the bath , for they would not let their women know what they were about . 
Zayda gathered quantities of roses , and when all was ready they put the monkey into a large jasper bath , where the mother rubbed him all over with the green liquid . 
Their suspense was not long , for suddenly the monkey skin dropped off , and there stood Prince Alphege , the handsomest and most charming of men . 
The joy of such a meeting was beyond words . 
After a time the ladies begged the Prince to relate his adventures , and he told them of all his sufferings in the desert when he was first transformed . 
His only comfort had been in visits from the Good Queen , who had at length put him in the way of meeting his brother . 
The Queen on her side was feeling very anxious . 
She had felt sure from the first that her son's pet monkey was no other than Prince Alphege , and she longed to put an end to him . 
Her suspicions were confirmed by the Fairy of the Mountain , and she hastened in tears to the King , her son . 
'I am informed , she cried , 'that some ill disposed people have raised up an impostor in the hopes of dethroning you . 
You must at once have him put to death . 
The King , who was very brave , assured the Queen that he would soon punish the conspirators . 
He made careful inquiries into the matter , and thought it hardly probable that a quiet widow and a young girl would think of attempting anything of the nature of a revolution . 
The two ladies were at the moment deep in conversation with Prince Alphege , and hearing a knocking so late at night begged him to keep out of sight for a time . 
What was their surprise when the door was opened to see the King and his suite . 
'I know , said the King , 'that you are plotting against my crown and person , and I have come to have an explanation with you . 
As she was about to answer Prince Alphege , who had heard all , came forward and said , 'It is from me you must ask an explanation , brother . 
He spoke with such grace and dignity that everyone gazed at him with mute surprise . 
So saying , he respectfully kissed the Prince's hand . 
Alphege threw himself into his arms , and the brothers hastened to the royal palace , where in the presence of the entire court he received the crown from his brother's hand . 
To clear away any possible doubt , he showed the ruby which the Good Queen had given him in his childhood . 
As they were gazing at it , it suddenly split with a loud noise , and at the same moment the Wicked Queen expired . 
King Alphege lost no time in marrying his dear and lovely Zayda , and his joy was complete when the Good Queen appeared at his wedding . 
King Alphege insisted on his brother sharing his throne , and they all lived to a good old age , universally beloved and admired . 
FAIRER THAN A FAIRY Once there lived a King who had no children for many years after his marriage . 
At length heaven granted him a daughter of such remarkable beauty that he could think of no name so appropriate for her as 'Fairer than a Fairy . 
The eldest of their tribe was entrusted to carry out their revenge . 
She was also so spiteful that she gladly devoted all her time to carrying out all the mean or ill natured tricks of the whole body of fairies . 
With her large experience , added to her native spite , she found but little difficulty in carrying off Fairer than a Fairy . 
The poor child , who was only seven years old , nearly died of fear on finding herself in the power of this hideous creature . 
One day , whilst passing near a fountain in the garden , she noticed that the sun's rays fell on the water in such a manner as to produce a brilliant rainbow . 
She stood still to admire it , when , to her great surprise , she heard a voice addressing her which seemed to come from the centre of its rays . 
He added many other tender speeches to this declaration , and the Princess , to whom such remarks were a new experience , could not help feeling pleased and touched by his attentions . 
Fairer than a Fairy lost no moment in which she could meet her lover , and they enjoyed many long and interesting interviews . 
One day , however , their conversation became so absorbing and time passed so quickly that the Princess forgot to attend to the fire , and it went out . 
Lagree , on her return , soon found out the neglect , and seemed only too pleased to have the opportunity of showing her spite to her lovely prisoner . 
She ordered Fairer than a Fairy to start next day at dawn to ask Locrinos for fire with which to relight the one she had allowed to go out . 
Now this Locrinos was a cruel monster who devoured everyone he came across , and especially enjoyed a chance of catching and eating any young girls . 
Our heroine obeyed with great sweetness , and without having been able to take leave of her lover she set off to go to Locrinos as to certain death . 
As she was crossing a wood a bird sang to her to pick up a shining pebble which she would find in a fountain close by , and to use it when needed . 
She took the bird's advice , and in due time arrived at the house of Locrinos . 
She readily let Fairer than a Fairy have the fire , and in return for the stone she gave her another , which , she said , might prove useful some day . 
Then she sent her away without doing her any harm . 
She found , however , that he had already been told all about them by a Fairy who protected him , and to whom he was related . 
One day Prince Rainbow appeared in the depths of woe . 
He had just heard that he was to be banished from this lovely spot , but he had no idea where he was to go . 
The poor young couple were in despair , and only parted with the last ray of sunshine , and in hopes of meeting next morning . 
Alas ! next day was dark and gloomy , and it was only late in the afternoon that the sun broke through the clouds for a few minutes . 
Fairer than a Fairy eagerly ran to the window , but in her haste she upset the basin , and spilt all the water with which she had carefully filled it overnight . 
No other water was at hand except that in the two bottles . 
The Princess , on her side , vowed to have no other husband , and declared herself willing to brave death itself in order to rejoin him . 
When Lagree became aware of her prisoner's flight she was furious , and set off at full speed in pursuit . 
She overtook her just as the poor girl , overcome by fatigue , had lain down to rest in a cave which the stone had formed itself into to shelter her . 
The little dog who was watching her mistress promptly flew at Lagree and bit her so severely that she stumbled against a corner of the cave and broke off her only tooth . 
Before she had recovered from the pain and rage this caused her , the Princess had time to escape , and was some way on her road . 
Fear gave her strength for some time , but at last she could go no further , and sank down to rest . 
But Lagree had not given up her pursuit , and arrived just as Fairer than a Fairy had fallen fast asleep . 
One might have thought that all would now be well , but no sooner had Lagree been put to fight than our heroine was overwhelmed with hunger and thirst . 
Here she was received by a beautiful lady dressed in green and white to match the house , which apparently belonged to her , and of which she seemed the only inhabitant . 
As the green and white lady took leave of the Princess she gave her a nut , desiring her only to open it in the most urgent need . 
After a long and tiring journey Fairer than a Fairy was once more received in a house , and by a lady exactly like the one she had quitted . 
Here again she received a present with the same injunctions , but instead of a nut this lady gave her a golden pomegranate . 
The mournful Princess had to continue her weary way , and after many troubles and hardships she again found rest and shelter in a third house exactly similar to the two others . 
These houses belonged to three sisters , all endowed with fairy gifts , and all so alike in mind and person that they wished their houses and garments to be equally alike . 
Their occupation consisted in helping those in misfortune , and they were as gentle and benevolent as Lagree had been cruel and spiteful . 
The third Fairy comforted the poor traveller , begged her not to lose heart , and assured her that her troubles should be rewarded . 
She accompanied her advice by the gift of a crystal smelling bottle , with strict orders only to open it in case of urgent need . 
Fairer than a Fairy thanked her warmly , and resumed her way cheered by pleasant thoughts . 
It was so perfectly hung that a gentle breeze rocked it sufficiently to send you pleasantly to sleep . 
Fairer than a Fairy felt a strong desire to enter this Castle , but besides being hung a little above the ground there seemed to be neither doors nor windows . 
that the moment had come in which to use the nut which had been given her . 
She entered a magnificent room which appeared to occupy the entire Castle , and which was lighted by gold and jewelled stars in the ceiling . 
On this elegant couch lay Prince Rainbow , looking more beautiful than ever , and sunk in profound slumber , in which he had been held ever since his disappearance . 
At the same time she could not help feeling rather hurt at the apparent indifference with which she was received . 
The Prince was not completely roused , but he opened his eyes a little and looked all the handsomer . 
She added some gentle reproaches to her tale , but before she had got far he was wide awake , and transported with joy threw himself at the Princess's feet . 
At the same moment the walls of the room expanded and opened out , revealing a golden throne covered with jewels . 
A magnificent Court now began to assemble , and at the same time several elegant carriages filled with ladies in magnificent dresses drove up . 
In the first and most splendid of these carriages sat Prince Rainbow's mother . 
The Court received the new King with joyful acclamations which would have delighted him at any other time , but all his thoughts were full of Fairer than a Fairy . 
He was just about to present her to his mother and the Court , feeling sure that her charms would win all hearts , when the three green and white sisters appeared . 
They declared the secret of Fairy than a Fairy's royal birth , and the Queen taking the two lovers in her carriage set off with them for the capital of the kingdom . 
Here they were received with tumultuous joy . 
The wedding was celebrated without delay , and succeeding years diminished neither the virtues , beauty , nor the mutual affection of King Rainbow and his Queen , Fairer than a Fairy . 
THE THREE BROTHERS From the Polish . 
There was once upon a time a witch , who in the shape of a hawk used every night to break the windows of a certain village church . 
In the same village there lived three brothers , who were all determined to kill the mischievous hawk . 
His eyelids closed , and his head sank on his shoulders , but the thorns ran into him and were so painful that he awoke at once . 
He saw the hawk swooping down upon the church , and in a moment he had seized his gun and shot at the bird . 
The hawk fell heavily under a big stone , severely wounded in its right wing . 
The youth ran to look at it , and saw that a huge abyss had opened below the stone . 
He went at once to fetch his brothers , and with their help dragged a lot of pine wood and ropes to the spot . 
They fastened some of the burning pine wood to the end of the rope , and let it slowly down to the bottom of the abyss . 
At first it was quite dark , and the flaming torch only lit up dirty grey stone walls . 
But the youngest brother determined to explore the abyss , and letting himself down by the rope he soon reached the bottom . 
Here he found a lovely meadow full of green trees and exquisite flowers . 
In the middle of the meadow stood a huge stone castle , with an iron gate leading to it , which was wide open . 
The youth looked at her more closely , and saw that her skin was smooth and fair , her blue eyes bright and sparkling , and her hair as golden as the sun . 
He fell in love with her on the spot , and kneeling at her feet , he implored her to become his wife . 
Then the youth went into a room in the castle where everything was made of silver , and here he found another beautiful girl , the sister of his bride . 
She was combing her silver hair , and every hair that fell on the ground rang out like pure metal . 
The second girl handed him the sword , but though he tried with all his strength he could not lift it . 
At last a third sister came to him and gave him a drop of something to drink , which she said would give him the needful strength . 
Then he hid himself in the castle and awaited the old witch's arrival . 
At last as it was beginning to grow dark she appeared . 
She swooped down upon a big apple tree , and after shaking some golden apples from it , she pounced down upon the earth . 
As soon as her feet touched the ground she became transformed from a hawk into a woman . 
First the treasures were attached to the rope and then the three lovely girls . 
And now everything was up above and only he himself remained below . 
But as he was a little suspicious of his brothers , he fastened a heavy stone on to the rope and let them pull it up . 
At first they heaved with a will , but when the stone was half way up they let it drop suddenly , and it fell to the bottom broken into a hundred pieces . 
For a long time he wandered sadly all through the beautiful underworld , and one day he met a magician who asked him the cause of his tears . 
Another magician who lives in this land always eats my children up . 
It is in vain that I have hidden them under the earth and locked them into the castle . 
Now I have hidden them in the apple tree hide yourself there too , and at midnight you will see my enemy . 
The youth climbed up the tree , and picked some of the beautiful golden apples , which he ate for his supper . 
At midnight the wind began to rise , and a rustling sound was heard at the foot of the tree . 
The youth looked down and beheld a long thick serpent beginning to crawl up the tree . 
It wound itself round the stem and gradually got higher and higher . 
It stretched its huge head , in which the eyes glittered fiercely , among the branches , searching for the nest in which the little children lay . 
They trembled with terror when they saw the hideous creature , and hid themselves beneath the leaves . 
Then the youth swung his mighty sword in the air , and with one blow cut off the serpent's head . 
He cut up the rest of the body into little bits and strewed them to the four winds . 
With what joy did he hurry now to his brothers' house ! He burst into a room where they were all assembled , but no one knew who he was . 
Only his bride , who was serving as cook to her sisters , recognised her lover at once . 
His brothers , who had quite believed he was dead , yielded him up his treasures at once , and flew into the woods in terror . 
But the good youth forgave them all they had done , and divided his treasures with them . 
Then he built himself a big castle with golden windows , and there he lived happily with his golden haired wife till the end of their lives . 
THE BOY AND THE WOLVES , OR THE BROKEN PROMISE A North American Indian story . 
For many years they lived peacefully and happily in this sheltered place , never leaving it except to hunt the wild animals , which served them both for food and clothes . 
At last , however , the strong man felt sick , and before long he knew he must die . 
So he gathered his family round him , and said his last words to them . 
'You , my wife , the companion of my days , will follow me ere many moons have waned to the island of the blest . 
But for you , O my children , whose lives are but newly begun , the wickedness , unkindness , and ingratitude from which I fled are before you . 
Yet I shall go hence in peace , my children , if you will promise always to love each other , and never to forsake your youngest brother . 
'Never ! they replied , holding out their hands . 
And the hunter died content . 
Therefore he opened all his heart to his sister , who answered 'My brother , I understand your longing for our fellow men , whom here we cannot see . 
But remember our father's words . 
Stay here within the shelter of the hut . 
I go to seek our brother , and when I have found him I shall return hither . 
And without them he would have died in the snow . 
But at last the snows melted , and the ice upon the great lake , and as the wolves went down to the shore , the boy went after them . 
THE GLASS AXE From the Hungarian . 
There was once upon a time a King and Queen who had everything they could possibly wish for in this world except a child . 
At last , after twelve years , the Queen gave birth to a son but she did not live long to enjoy her happiness , for on the following day she died . 
And these were the last words the poor Queen spoke . 
Every day he rode through the neighbouring fields and woods , and always returned home in the evening safe and well . 
One day the Prince and his suite went out for a ride in a wood where his father sometimes held a hunt . 
Their way led through a stream whose banks were overgrown with thick brushwood . 
Just as the horsemen were about to ford the river , a hare , startled by the sound of the horses' hoofs , started up from the grass and ran towards the thicket . 
The young Prince pursued the little creature , and had almost overtaken it , when the girth of his saddle suddenly broke in two and he fell heavily to the ground . 
No sooner had his foot touched the earth than he disappeared before the eyes of the horrified courtiers . 
Hardly had the Prince touched the ground than he felt himself violently seized by an unseen power , and hurried away he knew not whither . 
A whole new world stretched out before him , quite unlike the one he had left . 
A splendid castle surrounded by a huge lake was the abode of the Fairy , and the only approach to it was over a bridge of clouds . 
On the other side of the lake high mountains rose up , and dark woods stretched along the banks over all hung a thick mist , and deep silence reigned everywhere . 
Then she gave him an axe made of glass , and bade him cross the bridge of clouds and go into the wood beyond and cut down all the trees there before sunset . 
At the same time she cautioned him with many angry words against speaking to a black girl he would most likely meet in the wood . 
The Prince listened to her words meekly , and when she had finished took up the glass axe and set out for the forest . 
At every step he seemed to sink into the clouds , but fear gave wings to his feet , and he crossed the lake in safety and set to work at once . 
But no sooner had he struck the first blow with his axe than it broke into a thousand pieces against the tree . 
The poor youth was so terrified he did not know what to do , for he was in mortal dread of the punishment the wicked old Fairy would inflict on him . 
He did not know how long he had slept when a sudden sound awoke him , and opening his eyes he saw a black girl standing beside him . 
The Prince nodded his head silently in answer . 
If you will only promise to try and free me I will stand by you , and will accomplish for you all the tasks which my mother sets you . 
But the Prince lied manfully , and swore he had never looked up from his work for a moment . 
With quicker and lighter step he crossed the bridge of clouds , and hardly had he reached the other side than his friend stood before him and greeted him cheerfully . 
When he awoke everything , was done . 
All the trees of the wood were cut up into firewood and arranged in bundles ready for use . 
He returned to the castle as quickly as he could , and told the Fairy that her commands were obeyed . 
On the following day the Fairy set him a third task to do , even harder than the other two . 
The Prince heard her words without anxiety , so entirely did he rely on the help of his black friend . 
Full of joy the youth hurried towards her , and begged her aid and counsel in the new piece of work he had been given to do . 
But this time the Fairy had watched the Prince's movements from her window , and she saw him hiding himself behind the rock with her daughter . 
The Prince at once gave himself up for lost , but the girl told him to be of good courage and to follow her as quickly as he could . 
But before they had accomplished half the way they heard again the rustle of her garments and her muttered curses pursuing them closely . 
The Prince was terrified he dared not look back , and he felt his strength giving way . 
But the sand hill only drove the pond a little farther away , and its waters seemed to increase instead of diminishing . 
When the old woman saw that the powers of her magic were of so little avail , she had recourse to cunning . 
Breathless with rage and passion , she tried to plunge her dagger into the monk's heart , but it fell shattered in pieces at her feet . 
In her desperation she determined to pull down the church , and thus to destroy her two victims for ever . 
She stamped three times on the ground , and the earth trembled , and both the church and the monk began to shake . 
As soon as the Fairy saw this she retreated to some distance from the building , so as not to be hurt herself by its fall . 
Then her wrath gave place to terror , for she feared every moment to be torn in pieces by the beasts who one and all seemed to defy her power . 
In the meantime the Prince and the black girl had again assumed their natural forms , and were hurrying on as fast as they could to reach the river . 
But when they got there they found that there was no way in which they could cross it , and the girl's magic art seemed no longer to have any power . 
Take this bow and arrow and kill every beast you see with them , and be sure you spare no living creature . 
With these words she disappeared , and hardly had she done so than a huge wild boar started out of the thicket near and made straight for the Prince . 
But the youth did not lose his presence of mind , and drawing his bow he pierced the beast with his arrow right through the skull . 
The creature fell heavily on the ground , and out of its side sprang a little hare , which ran like the wind along the river bank . 
But when he went to look at the body of the bird he found instead of the dove a round white egg lying on the ground . 
As soon as she was in the open again she mounted her chariot , which was drawn by a fiery dragon , and flew through the air in it . 
But just as she got to the river she saw the two lovers in each other's arms swimming through the water as easily as two fishes . 
Quick as lightning , and forgetful of every danger , she flew down upon them . 
And so at last the Prince and his lovely Bride were free . 
They hurried as quickly as they could to the old King , who received them with joy and gladness . 
On the following day a most gorgeous wedding feast was held , and as far as we know the Prince and his bride lived happily for ever afterwards . 
THE DEAD WIFE From the Iroquois . 
Once upon a time there were a man and his wife who lived in the forest , very far from the rest of the tribe . 
One day , when he was away hunting , the woman fell ill , and in a few days she died . 
He seated it in front of the fire , and tried to think he had his wife back again . 
But he was very busy now , for he had to cook and mend , besides getting food , for there was no one to help him . 
And so a whole year passed away . 
At the end of that time he came back from hunting one night and found some wood by the door and a fire within . 
The next night there was not only wood and fire , but a piece of meat in the kettle , nearly ready for eating . 
He searched all about to see who could have done this , but could find no one . 
The next time he went to hunt he took care not to go far , and came in quite early . 
And while he was still a long way off he saw a woman going into the house with wood on her shoulders . 
So he made haste , and opened the door quickly , and instead of the wooden doll , his wife sat in front of the fire . 
If you do , I shall die . 
Let us now go back to our tribe . 
Then you will be well , and I can touch you . 
And with that he prepared food for the journey , a string of deer's flesh for her to carry , and one for himself and so they started . 
Therefore they made a fire , cooked some food , and spread out their skins to sleep . 
But he would not listen to her , and caught her to him , and behold ! he was clasping the wooden doll . 
And when he saw it was the doll he pushed it from him in his misery and rushed away to the camp , and told them all his story . 
And the man grieved sore all the days of his life . 
IN THE LAND OF SOULS From the Red Indian . 
Many of the young braves sought her in marriage , but she would listen to one only a handsome chief , who had taken her fancy some years before . 
The heart of her lover had been set upon her , and the thought of her remained with him night and day . 
At last , after many days , a light seemed to come to him out of the darkness . 
Only one thing he knew , that if the path was there , he would find it . 
At first he was puzzled , as there seemed no reason he should go in one direction more than another . 
For many , many miles the country looked the same as it did round his own home . 
The forests , the hills , and the rivers all seemed exactly like the ones he had left . 
Then he knew that he was in the right road . 
The thought that he should soon behold his lost bride made his heart beat for joy , and he sped along lightly and swiftly . 
Now his way led through a dark wood , and then over some steep cliffs , and on the top of these he found a hut or wigwam . 
It is but a short while since she whom you seek was here . 
Rest in my hut , as she also rested , and I will tell you what you ask , and whither you should go . 
'Look , he said , 'at the water which lies far out yonder , and the plains which stretch beyond . 
That is the Land of Souls , but no man enters it without leaving his body behind him . 
So , lay down your body here your bow and arrows , your skin and your dog . 
They shall be kept for you safely . 
Very soon he noticed with wonder , that neither rocks nor trees barred his path . 
He passed through them without knowing it , for indeed , they were not rocks and trees at all , but only the souls of them for this was the Land of Shadows . 
But they could not touch each other , for between them rolled great waves , which looked as if they would sink the boats , yet never did . 
Only the children had no fear , and reached the other side in safety . 
At the gate my messenger awaits you , and you shall take again your body which you left behind , and he will show you what you are to do . 
THE WHITE DUCK Once upon a time a great and powerful King married a lovely Princess . 
And the Queen promised faithfully to obey her royal lord and master in these four matters . 
All the brightness outside would help to drive away your cares , O Queen . 
And so , in all ignorance , the Queen followed her out into the garden and listened to her smooth , flattering words . 
And , so saying , she slipped off her robes and stepped into the water . 
And in his great joy the King did not know that the woman he held in his arms was not his own dear wife , but a wicked witch . 
But the young ones did not listen to their mother , and , playing about the garden one day , they strayed close up to the castle windows . 
In the meantime the two little ducklings had fallen asleep , and the little drake lay between them , covered up by their wings , to be kept warm under their feathers . 
'Just the same answer , muttered the witch 'I think I'll go in and see . 
So she opened the door gently , and seeing the two little ducklings sound asleep , she there and then killed them . 
The next morning the White Duck wandered round the pond in a distracted manner , looking for her little ones she called and she searched , but could find no trace of them . 
And in her heart she had a foreboding that evil had befallen them , and she fluttered up out of the water and flew to the palace . 
And there , laid out on the marble floor of the court , dead and stone cold , were her three children . 
I gave you always of the best I kept you warm in my soft nest . 
I loved and watched you day and night You were my joy , my one delight . 
The King heard the sad complaint of the White Duck , and called to the witch 'Wife , what a wonder is this ? Listen to that White Duck . 
But the witch answered , 'My dear husband , what do you mean ? There is nothing wonderful in a duck's quacking . 
Here , servants ! Chase that duck out of the courtyard . 
First she stole my King away , Then my children did she slay . 
Changed me , from a happy wife , To a duck for all my life . 
Would I were the Queen again Would that you had never been slain . 
And as the King heard her words he began to suspect that he had been deceived , and he called out to the servants , 'Catch that duck , and bring it here . 
But , though they ran to and fro , the duck always fled past them , and would not let herself be caught . 
So the King himself stepped down amongst them , and instantly the duck fluttered down into his hands . 
And as he stroked her wings she was changed into a beautiful woman , and he recognised his dear wife . 
And she told him that a bottle would be found in her nest in the garden , containing some drops from the spring of healing . 
And it was brought to her and the ducklings and little drake were sprinkled with the water , and from the little dead bodies three lovely children arose . 
And the King and Queen were overjoyed when they saw their children , and they all lived happily together in the beautiful palace . 
But the wicked witch was taken by the King's command , and she came to no good end . 
THE WITCH AND HER SERVANTS From the Russian . 
Long time ago there lived a King who had three sons the eldest was called Szabo , the second Warza , and the youngest Iwanich . 
During their wanderings they came unperceived on a piece of waste land where three splendid trees grew . 
The King looked on them for a moment , and then , shaking his head sadly , he passed on in silence . 
A celebrated magician , who had given the seed to my father , promised him that they would grow into the three finest trees the world had ever seen . 
At last , after the lapse of five long years , I noticed some blossoms on the branches , and a few days later the most exquisite fruit my eyes had ever seen . 
When it was quite ripe the fruit would become a golden yellow . 
'Every day I gazed on the lovely fruit , which became gradually more and more tempting looking , and it was all I could do not to break the magician's commands . 
'One night I dreamt that the fruit was perfectly ripe I ate some of it , and it was more delicious than anything I had ever tasted in real life . 
As soon as I awoke I sent for the gardener and asked him if the fruit on the three trees had not ripened in the night to perfection . 
'But instead of replying , the gardener threw himself at my feet and swore that he was innocent . 
For some time past I have given up even having the trees watched . 
When the King had finished his story , Szabo , his eldest son , said to him 'Forgive me , father , if I say I think you are mistaken . 
The King consented , and as soon as evening drew on Szabo climbed up on to one of the trees , determined to protect the fruit even if it cost him his life . 
So he kept watch half the night but a little after midnight he was overcome by an irresistible drowsiness , and fell fast asleep . 
He did not awake till it was bright daylight , and all the fruit on the trees had vanished . 
The following year Warza , the second brother , tried his luck , but with the same result . 
Then it came to the turn of the third and youngest son . 
At midnight a gentle west wind shook the tree , and at the same moment a snow white swan like bird sank down gently on his breast . 
'You need not fear Militza , said the beautiful girl , looking at the Prince with friendly eyes . 
'An evil magician has not robbed you of your fruit , but he stole the seed from my mother , and thereby caused her death . 
When she was dying she bade me take the fruit , which you have no right to possess , from the trees every year as soon as it was ripe . 
This I would have done to night too , if you had not seized me with such force , and so broken the spell I was under . 
Iwanich , who had been prepared to meet a terrible magician and not a lovely girl , fell desperately in love with her . 
They spent the rest of the night in pleasant conversation , and when Militza wished to go away he begged her not to leave him . 
But if your love is really true , come and find me in my own kingdom . 
I may not show you the way there , but this ring will guide you . 
If it sparkles as brightly as ever go straight on , but if its lustre is dimmed choose another path . 
The King was beside himself for joy , and hurried at once to the garden and made the gardener pick him some of the fruit . 
He tasted it , and found the apple quite as luscious as it had been in his dream . 
This question placed Iwanich in a dilemma . 
But as he did not want the real story to be known , he said that about midnight a huge wasp had flown through the branches , and buzzed incessantly round him . 
He had warded it off with his sword , and at dawn , when he was becoming quite worn out , the wasp had vanished as suddenly as it had appeared . 
The whole capital was in a stir , and everyone shared in the King's joy the Prince alone took no part in the festivities . 
But in the meantime the Prince , with the help of his ring , had had a most successful journey , and no evil had befallen him . 
'Where else should I be going , he said , 'than through the wood ? 'Through the wood ? said the old man in amazement . 
'It's easily seen that you have heard nothing of this forest , that you rush so blindly to meet your doom . 
If I were to cut you and your horse up into tiny morsels and throw them to the beasts , there wouldn't be one bit for each hundred of them . 
Take my advice , therefore , and if you wish to save your life follow some other path . 
Here he spurred his horse and rode on but the old beggar screamed so loudly after him that the Prince turned round and rode back to the oak tree . 
'Take this bagful of bread crumbs and this live hare . 
When you have gone about a hundred yards into the wood the wild beasts will surround you . 
Then you must instantly seize your bag , and scatter the bread crumbs among them . 
In this way you will be able to get through the wood unhurt . 
Iwanich thanked the old man for his counsel , dismounted from his horse , and , taking the bag and the hare in his arms , he entered the forest . 
He threw them to the beasts , but soon the bag grew lighter and lighter , and the Prince began to feel a little frightened . 
And now the last crumb was gone , and the hungry beasts thronged round him , greedy for fresh prey . 
Then he seized the hare and threw it to them . 
He looked at his ring , and when he saw that it sparkled as brightly as ever he went straight on through the forest . 
He hadn't gone very far when he saw a most extraordinary looking man coming towards him . 
He was not more than three feet high , his legs were quite crooked , and all his body was covered with prickles like a hedgehog . 
Two lions walked with him , fastened to his side by the two ends of his long beard . 
'Most certainly , answered the little man 'and for greater security I will give you one of my lions as a protector . 
With these words he loosened the lion from his beard and bade the beast guard the youth carefully . 
At length , towards evening , the mass of trees grew more transparent , and through the interlaced branches a wide plain was visible . 
At the exit of the wood the lion stood still , and the Prince took leave of him , having first thanked him warmly for his kind protection . 
It had become quite dark , and Iwanich was forced to wait for daylight before continuing his journey . 
He made himself a bed of grass and leaves , lit a fire of dry branches , and slept soundly till the next morning . 
Then he got up and walked towards a beautiful white palace which he saw gleaming in the distance . 
In about an hour he reached the building , and opening the door he walked in . 
After wandering through many marble halls , he came to a huge staircase made of porphyry , leading down to a lovely garden . 
The Prince burst into a shout of joy when he suddenly perceived Militza in the centre of a group of girls who were weaving wreaths of flowers with which to deck their mistress . 
Then the Princess called her court together , and introduced Iwanich to them as her future husband . 
Preparations were at once made for the wedding , which was held soon after with great pomp and magnificence . 
Three months of great happiness followed , when Militza received one day an invitation to visit her mother's sister . 
Iwanich promised what she asked , and Militza departed , repeating her promise to return in seven days . 
When the Prince found himself alone he began to be tormented by pangs of curiosity as to what the room in the tower contained . 
What an unexpected sight met his gaze ! The Prince perceived a small room black with smoke , lit up feebly by a fire from which issued long blue flames . 
Over the fire hung a huge cauldron full of boiling pitch , and fastened into the cauldron by iron chains stood a wretched man screaming with agony . 
Iwanich was much horrified at the sight before him , and asked the man what terrible crime he had committed to be punished in this dreadful fashion . 
'I will tell you everything , said the man in the cauldron 'but first relieve my torments a little , I implore you . 
'And how can I do that ? asked the Prince . 
'With a little water , replied the man 'only sprinkle a few drops over me and I shall feel better . 
This continued for a few minutes , and then everything vanished into thin air , and Iwanich found himself suddenly alone upon a desolate heath covered with rocks and stones . 
The Prince , who now realised what his heedlessness had done , cursed too late his spirit of curiosity . 
In his despair he wandered on over the heath , never looking where he put his feet , and full of sorrowful thoughts . 
At last he saw a light in the distance , which came from a miserable looking little hut . 
The owner of it was none other than the kind hearted gaunt grey beggar who had given the Prince the bag of bread crumbs and the hare . 
Without recognising Iwanich , he opened the door when he knocked and gave him shelter for the night . 
Iwanich thanked the gaunt grey beggar for his information , and went on his way . 
In this horrible enclosure stood a small black house , which had only two grated windows , all covered with cobwebs , and a battered iron door . 
The Prince knocked , and a rasping woman's voice told him to enter . 
Iwanich opened the door , and found himself in a smoke begrimed kitchen , in the presence of a hideous old woman who was warming her skinny hands at a fire . 
The Prince offered to become her servant , and the old hag told him she was badly in want of one , and he seemed to be just the person to suit her . 
Here he perceived two pitch black horses in a stall . 
The other spikes , as you see , are already adorned , and the skulls are all those of different servants I have had who have failed to do what I demanded . 
Iwanich , who thought he could not be much worse off than he was already , agreed to the witch's proposal . 
At daybreak nest morning he drove his horses to the field , and brought them back in the evening without their ever having attempted to break away from him . 
The witch stood at her door and received him kindly , and set a good meal before him . 
So it continued for some time , and all went well with the Prince . 
Early every morning he led the horses out to the fields , and brought them home safe and sound in the evening . 
Iwanich , who felt sorry for the poor creature , seized it in his arms and flung it into the stream . 
'I am quite content to have been able to be of some service to you . 
'You must do me the favour , replied the fish , 'to take a scale from my body , and keep it carefully . 
If you should ever need my help , throw it into the river , and I will come to your aid at once . 
Iwanich bowed , loosened a scale from the body of the grateful beast , put it carefully away , and returned home . 
Iwanich thanked the bird , and placing the feather beside the scale he drove the horses home . 
Just as he was sitting down under a tree he heard a cry close to him , and saw a fox which had been caught in a trap placed there by the farmer . 
In vain did the poor beast try to free itself then the good natured Prince came once more to the rescue , and let the fox out of the trap . 
Iwanich put the fox's hairs with the scale and the feather , and as it was getting dark he hastened home with his horses . 
On the first evening of these last three days , when he came home and was eating his supper , he noticed the old woman stealing into the stables . 
The Prince followed her secretly to see what she was going to do . 
When Iwanich heard all this he went back to his room , determined that nothing should induce him to fall asleep next day . 
On the following morning he led the mare and foal to the fields as usual , but bound a cord round them both which he kept in his hand . 
The Prince did not awake till late in the evening and when he did , he found , to his horror , that the horses had disappeared . 
Then he suddenly remembered the fish's scale , which , with the eagle's feather and the fox's hairs , he always carried about with him . 
He drew the scale from his pocket , and hurrying to the river he threw it in . 
'Wait a moment , answered the fish , 'and I and my friends will soon drive them out of the water . 
With these words the creature disappeared into the depths of the stream . 
Iwanich sprang at once on to the mare's back , seized the foal by its bridle , and hastened home in the highest spirits . 
The Prince followed her , and heard her scolding the beasts harshly for not having hidden themselves better . 
She bade them wait next morning till Iwanich was asleep and then to hide themselves in the clouds , and to remain there till she called . 
If they did not do as she told them she would beat them till they bled . 
The next morning , after Iwanich had led his horses to the fields , he fell once more into a magic sleep . 
The horses at once ran away and hid themselves in the clouds , which hung down from the mountains in soft billowy masses . 
'Wait a minute , answered the eagle 'with the help of my friends I will soon drive them back to you . 
With these words the bird flew up into the air and disappeared among the clouds . 
Almost directly Iwanich saw his two horses being driven towards him by a host of eagles of all sizes . 
He caught the mare and foal , and having thanked the eagle he drove them cheerfully home again . 
If they failed to do as she told them she would certainly beat them this time till they bled . 
On the following morning the Prince drove his horses as usual to the fields . 
After he had been overpowered by sleep , as on the former days , the mare and foal ran away and hid themselves in the royal hen house . 
'Hardly an hour's walk from here , answered the fox , and offered to show the Prince the way to it . 
While they were walking along the fox asked him what he wanted to do at the royal hen house . 
The Prince told him of the misfortune that had befallen him , and of the necessity of recovering the mare and foal . 
'That is no easy matter , replied the fox . 
Stand at the door of the hen house , and wait there for your horses . 
When they see the horses they will at once imagine them to be the cause of the disturbance , and will drive them out . 
Then you must lay hands on the mare and foal and catch them . 
All turned out exactly as the sly fox had foreseen . 
The Prince swung himself on the mare , seized the foal by its bridle , and hurried home . 
If you promise never to betray me I will give you a piece of advice which you will do well to follow . 
Iwanich longed to possess such an animal , and promised the mare to follow her advice . 
This time Corva received him in the most friendly manner , and set a sumptuous repast before him . 
As soon as he had finished she asked him what reward he demanded for his year's service . 
'Nothing more nor less , replied the Prince , 'than the foal of your mare . 
'When you have reached him , beware of speaking a single word to him , or you will fall into the power of his friends . 
Seize him at once by the beard and dash him to the ground . 
Iwanich thanked the old witch , mounted his foal , put spurs to its sides , and they flew like lightning through the air . 
At the same moment the foal sprang on the top of the magician and kicked and stamped on him with his hoofs till he died . 
Then Iwanich found himself once more in the palace of his bride , and Militza herself flew into his arms . 
From this time forward they lived in undisturbed peace and happiness till the end of their lives . 
THE MAGIC RING Once upon a time there lived an old couple who had one son called Martin . 
Now when the old man's time had come , he stretched himself out on his bed and died . 
Though all his life long he had toiled and moiled , he only left his widow and son two hundred florins . 
So Martin started off for the town . 
When he reached the meat market he found the whole place in turmoil , and a great noise of angry voices and barking of dogs . 
Mixing in the crowd , he noticed a stag hound which the butchers had caught and tied to a post , and which was being flogged in a merciless manner . 
'Leave off beating him , said Martin , 'and sell him to me instead . 
'If you choose to buy him , answered the butchers derisively 'but for such a treasure we won't take a penny less than a hundred florins . 
'A hundred ! exclaimed Martin . 
When Martin got home , his mother met him with the question 'Well , what have you bought ? 'Schurka , the dog , replied Martin , pointing to his new possession . 
Whereupon his mother became very angry , and abused him roundly . 
He ought to be ashamed of himself , when there was scarcely a handful of meal in the house , to have spent the money on a useless brute like that . 
On the following day she sent him back to the town , saying , 'Here , take our last hundred florins , and buy provisions with them . 
I have just emptied the last grains of meal out of the chest , and baked a bannock but it won't last over to morrow . 
Just as Martin was entering the town he met a rough looking peasant who was dragging a cat after him by a string which was fastened round the poor beast's neck . 
'Stop , cried Martin 'where are you dragging that poor cat ? 'I mean to drown him , was the answer . 
'What harm has the poor beast done ? said Martin . 
'It has just killed a goose , replied the peasant . 
'Don't drown him , sell him to me instead , begged Martin . 
'Not for a hundred florins , was the answer . 
'Surely for a hundred florins you'll sell it ? said Martin . 
When he reached his home his mother greeted him with the question 'Well , what have you brought back ? 'I have brought this cat , Waska , answered Martin . 
'And what besides ? 'I had no money over to buy anything else with , replied Martin . 
'You useless ne'er do weel ! exclaimed his mother in a great passion . 
On the way he met a rich peasant , who asked him where he was going . 
'I want to get work as a day labourer , he answered . 
'Come along with me , then . 
But I must tell you I engage my labourers without wages . 
If you serve me faithfully for a year , I promise you it shall be for your advantage . 
So Martin consented , and for a year he worked diligently , and served his master faithfully , not sparing himself in any way . 
When the day of reckoning had come the peasant led him into a barn , and pointing to two full sacks , said 'Take whichever of these you choose . 
And throwing the sack over his shoulders he started out into the world , in search of fresh work . 
On and on he walked , and at last he reached a great gloomy wood . 
Extinguish the flames with the sand that you earned in payment of your faithful service . 
So they started on their way , and after much wandering they reached a spot where a great rock rose straight up in the middle of the road . 
Instantly the Serpent uncoiled itself from his neck , and , as it touched the damp earth , it resumed the shape of the lovely damsel . 
Pointing to the rock , she showed him an opening just big enough for a man to wriggle through . 
Passing into it , they entered a long underground passage , which led out on to a wide field , above which spread a blue sky . 
In the middle of the field stood a magnificent castle , built out of porphyry , with a roof of gold and with glittering battlements . 
And his beautiful guide told him that this was the palace in which her father lived and reigned over his kingdom in the Under world . 
Together they entered the palace , and were received by the King with great kindness . 
Turning to his daughter , he said 'My child , I had almost given up the hope of ever seeing you again . 
Where have you been all these years ? 'My father , she replied , 'I owe my life to this youth , who saved me from a terrible death . 
Upon which the King turned to Martin with a gracious smile , saying 'I will reward your courage by granting you whatever your heart desires . 
Take as much gold , silver , and precious stones as you choose . 
Every time my eye falls on it I shall think of your gracious Majesty , and when I marry I shall present it to my bride . 
If you do , you will straightway bring misfortune on yourself . 
Martin took the ring , and , having thanked the King , he set out on the same road by which he had come down into the Under world . 
So uneventful was their life that it almost seemed as if it would go on in this way always , without let or hindrance . 
But as he did not trust himself as a wooer , he determined to send his old mother on the mission . 
'You must go to the King , he said to her , 'and demand the hand of his lovely daughter in marriage for me . 
'What are you thinking of , my son ? answered the old woman , aghast at the idea . 
Why , it is as much as our heads are worth . 
Neither my life nor yours would be worth anything if I went on such a fool's errand . 
'Never fear , little mother , answered Martin . 
'Trust me all will be well . 
But see that you do not come back without an answer of some kind . 
But their stern words and forbidding gestures made no impression whatever on the old woman , and she resolutely continued to climb the stairs , bent on carrying out her son's orders . 
And forthwith she was conducted into the golden presence chamber , where , leaning back amongst cushions of royal purple , the King sat , surrounded by his counsellors and courtiers . 
Courtesying low , the old woman stood silent before him . 
'Well , my good old dame , what can I do for you ? asked the King . 
'I have come , replied Martin's mother 'and your Majesty must not be angry with me I have come a wooing . 
'Is the woman out of her mind ? said the King , with an angry frown . 
But Martin's mother answered boldly 'If the King will only listen patiently to me , and give me a straightforward answer , he will see that I am not out of my mind . 
You , O King , have a lovely daughter to give in marriage . 
I have a son a wooer as clever a youth and as good a son in law as you will find in your whole kingdom . 
There is nothing that he cannot do . 
The palace must be joined together by a bridge of pure crystal . 
On each side of the bridge there must be growing trees , having golden and silver apples , and with birds of Paradise among the branches . 
It is terrible ! and she moaned and cried . 
'Never fear , little mother , answered Martin 'trust me , and you will see all will be well . 
You may go to sleep with a quiet mind . 
Then he told them the King's commands , and they answered that by next morning all should be accomplished exactly as the King had ordered . 
At each side of the bridge trees were growing , from whose branches hung golden and silver apples , among which birds of Paradise perched . 
So unhappy was she that she spent all her time wondering how she should get rid of her undesirable husband . 
On the instant the twelve youths appeared , and asked her what she commanded them to do . 
'You shall be obeyed , answered the twelve youths at the same moment . 
Immediately the King sent for his son in law , and commanded him to explain what had happened . 
But Martin looked at his royal father in law , and answered never a word . 
remembered how Martin had once saved them from a cruel death and they took counsel together as to how they should help him . 
No sooner said than done . 
And when a moment later Schurka joined her , they set off at full tilt to the stone tower where Martin was a prisoner , taking the rolls with them . 
'I little thought it would come to this , that I should die of hunger . 
'Never fear , dear master . 
Schurka and I will look after you , said Waska . 
And in another moment she had climbed down and brought him back a roll , and then another , and another , till she had brought him the whole tray load . 
Upon which she said 'Dear master , Schurka and I are going off to a distant kingdom at the utmost ends of the earth to fetch you back your magic ring . 
You must be careful that the rolls last till our return . 
And Waska took leave of her beloved master , and set off with Schurka on their journey . 
I will do everything in my power for you for I am the King of the Mice , and if I perish the whole race will die out . 
'So be it , said Waska . 
'I will spare your life but in return you must do something for me . 
In this castle there lives a Princess , the wicked wife of my dear master . 
She has stolen away his magic ring . 
You must get it away from her at whatever cost do you hear ? Till you have done this I won't take my claws out of your fur . 
'Good ! replied the mouse 'I will do what you ask . 
And , so saying , he summoned all the mice in his kingdom together . 
A countless number of mice , small and big , brown and grey , assembled , and formed a circle round their king , who was a prisoner under Waska's claws . 
All day she wears it on her finger , and at night she keeps it in her mouth . 
I will undertake , sire , to steal away the ring for you . 
In a flash the tiny mouse had seized it , and brought it to Waska as a ransom for the King of the Mice . 
'I am dying of hunger . 
For three days I have not tasted food . 
'Be of good heart , dear master , replied Waska 'from this day forth you will know nothing but happiness and prosperity . 
If this were a moment to trouble you with riddles , I would make you guess what Schurka and I have brought you back . 
Then Martin took the ring , and threw it from one hand into the other , and instantly the twelve youths appeared and asked what they were to do . 
'Fetch me first something to eat and drink , as quickly as possible and after that bring musicians hither , and let us have music all day long . 
On this the King sent at once a messenger to the Starvation Tower , and he was so astonished with what he saw that he remained rooted to the spot . 
Then the King sent his chief counsellors , and they too were transfixed with wonder . 
At last the King came himself , and he likewise was spellbound by the beauty of the music . 
And one thing more bring back my faithless wife , and lead her into the women's chamber . 
And Martin spoke to the King , saying , 'King and royal father , I have suffered much at the hands of your daughter . 
And Martin's heart was softened and he forgave his wife , and they lived happily together ever after . 
THE FLOWER QUEEN'S DAUGHTER From the Bukowinaer . 
A young Prince was riding one day through a meadow that stretched for miles in front of him , when he came to a deep open ditch . 
He was turning aside to avoid it , when he heard the sound of someone crying in the ditch . 
He dismounted from his horse , and stepped along in the direction the sound came from . 
To his astonishment he found an old woman , who begged him to help her out of the ditch . 
The Prince bent down and lifted her out of her living grave , asking her at the same time how she had managed to get there . 
Then the Prince said to her , 'You can hardly walk I will put you on my horse and lead you home . 
Where do you live ? 'Over there , at the edge of the forest in the little hut you see in the distance , replied the old woman . 
Would you like to have the most beautiful woman in the world for your wife ? 'Most certainly I would , replied the Prince . 
So the old woman continued , 'The most beautiful woman in the whole world is the daughter of the Queen of the Flowers , who has been captured by a dragon . 
If you wish to marry her , you must first set her free , and this I will help you to do . 
These will help you if you are in any difficulty . 
Now farewell , and heaven prosper your undertaking . 
She handed him the little bell , and there disappeared hut and all , as though the earth had swallowed her up . 
So the next morning the Prince mounted his fine horse and left his home . 
At last one day he came to a hut , in front of which sat a very old man . 
The Prince asked him , 'Do you not know where the Dragon lives who keeps the daughter of the Flower Queen prisoner ? 'No , I do not , answered the old man . 
'But if you go straight along this road for a year , you will reach a hut where my father lives , and possibly he may be able to tell you . 
He asked him the same question , and the old man answered , 'No , I do not know where the Dragon lives . 
But go straight along this road for another year , and you will come to a hut in which my father lives . 
I know he can tell you . 
And so the Prince wandered on for another year , always on the same road , and at last reached the hut where he found the third old man . 
For one whole year he is always awake , and the next he sleeps . 
So the Prince went up the second mountain , where he found a castle all made of gold with diamond windows . 
This flattering speech pleased the dragons , and the eldest of them said , 'Well , you may come with me , and I will take you to the Mother Dragon . 
They entered the castle and walked through twelve splendid halls , all made of gold and diamonds . 
In the twelfth room they found the Mother Dragon seated on a diamond throne . 
She was the ugliest woman under the sun , and , added to it all , she had three heads . 
Her appearance was a great shock to the Prince , and so was her voice , which was like the croaking of many ravens . 
The Prince undertook the task and led the mare out to the meadow . 
But no sooner had they reached the grass than she vanished . 
The Prince sought for her in vain , and at last in despair sat down on a big stone and contemplated his sad fate . 
As he sat thus lost in thought , he noticed an eagle flying over his head . 
Then he suddenly bethought him of his little bell , and taking it out of his pocket he rang it once . 
In a moment he heard a rustling sound in the air beside him , and the King of the Eagles sank at his feet . 
'I know what you want of me , the bird said . 
'You are looking for the Mother Dragon's mare who is galloping about among the clouds . 
I will summon all the eagles of the air together , and order them to catch the mare and bring her to you . 
And with these words the King of the Eagles flew away . 
Towards evening the Prince heard a mighty rushing sound in the air , and when he looked up he saw thousands of eagles driving the mare before them . 
They sank at his feet on to the ground and gave the mare over to him . 
She gave him at the same time a cloak made of copper , and led him to a big room where several young he dragons and she dragons were dancing together . 
Here , too , was the Flower Queen's beautiful daughter . 
Her dress was woven out of the most lovely flowers in the world , and her complexion was like lilies and roses . 
The ball came to an end at midnight , and early next morning the Prince again led the Mother Dragon's mare out into the meadow . 
But again she vanished before his eyes . 
Then he took out his little bell and rang it twice . 
With these words the King of the Foxes disappeared , and in the evening many thousand foxes brought the mare to the Prince . 
Then he rode home to the Mother Dragon , from whom he received this time a cloak made of silver , and again she led him to the ball room . 
After the ball we will fly away together . 
On the third day the Prince led the mare to the meadow again but once more she vanished before his eyes . 
Then the Prince took out his little bell and rang it three times . 
Towards midnight the beautiful girl appeared , and placing her in front of him on his horse , the Prince and she flew like the wind till they reached the Flower Queen's dwelling . 
But the dragons had noticed their flight , and woke their brother out of his year's sleep . 
In winter , when everything is dead and the ground covered with snow , she must come and live with me in my palace underground . 
The Prince consented to this , and led his beautiful bride home , where the wedding was held with great pomp and magnificence . 
The young couple lived happily together till winter came , when the Flower Queen's daughter departed and went home to her mother . 
This coming and going continued all her life long , and in spite of it they always lived happily together . 
THE FLYING SHIP From the Russian . 
Once upon a time there lived an old couple who had three sons the two elder were clever , but the third was a regular dunce . 
Immediately the two elder brothers determined to try their luck , and asked their parents' blessing . 
So the old mother smartened up their clothes , and gave them a store of provisions for their journey , not forgetting to add a bottle of brandy . 
When they had gone the poor Simpleton began to tease his mother to smarten him up and let him start off . 
'What would become of a dolt like you ? she answered . 
'Why , you would be eaten up by wolves . 
So the Simpleton set off on his way . 
When he had gone a short distance he met a little old manikin . 
They greeted one another , and the manikin asked him where he was going . 
'I am off to the King's Court , he answered . 
'He has promised to give his daughter to whoever can make a flying ship . 
'And can you make such a ship ? 'Not I. 'Then why in the world are you going ? 'Can't tell , replied the Simpleton . 
'Well , if that is the case , said the manikin , 'sit down beside me we can rest for a little and have something to eat . 
Give me what you have got in your satchel . 
Now , the poor Simpleton was ashamed to show what was in it . 
You will then find a ship at your side , step into it and fly to the King's Palace . 
If you meet anyone on the way , take him with you . 
The Simpleton thanked the manikin very kindly , bade him farewell , and went into the road . 
After a little time he was aroused he awoke and , rubbing his eyes , saw a ready made ship at his side , and at once got into it . 
'Hallo ! he called out , 'what are you doing down there ? 'I am listening to what is going on in the world , replied the man . 
'Come with me in my ship , said the Simpleton . 
So he hailed him , calling out 'Hallo ! what are you doing , hopping on one leg ? 'I can't help it , replied the man . 
'I walk so fast that unless I tied up one leg I should be at the end of the earth in a bound . 
'Hallo ! he shouted to him , 'what are you aiming at ? As far as eye can see , there is no bird in sight . 
'What would be the good of my taking a near shot ? replied the man 'I can hit beast or bird at a hundred miles' distance . 
That is the kind of shot I enjoy . 
And he waved to him , calling out 'Hallo ! where are you going ? 'To fetch bread for my breakfast . 
'Bread ? Why , you have got a whole basket load of it on your back . 
'That's nothing , answered the man 'I should finish that in one mouthful . 
'Come along with us in my ship , then . 
'Hallo ! he cried to him , what are you seeking ? 'I want water to drink , I'm so thirsty , replied the man . 
'Well , there's a whole lake in front of you why don't you drink some of that ? 'Do you call that enough ? answered the other . 
'Why , I should drink it up in one gulp . 
'Well , come with us in the ship . 
'Hallo ! he shouted to him , 'why are you carrying wood through a forest ? 'This is not common wood , answered the other . 
'What sort of wood is it , then ? said the Simpleton . 
'If you throw it upon the ground , said the man , 'it will be changed into an army of soldiers . 
'Come into the ship with us , then . 
'Hallo ! Where are you carrying that straw to ? 'To the village , said the man . 
'Do you mean to say there is no straw in the village ? 'Ah ! but this is quite a peculiar straw . 
If you strew it about even in the hottest summer the air at once becomes cold , and snow falls , and the people freeze . 
Then the Simpleton asked him also to join them . 
At last the ship , with its strange crew , arrived at the King's Court . 
Then the King remembered his royal oath but he made up his mind that he would never consent to let the Princess marry a poor peasant . 
So he thought and thought , and then said to himself 'I will give him some impossible tasks to perform that will be the best way of getting rid of him . 
'Alas , alas ! he cried 'what am I to do now ? It would take me quite a year , possibly my whole life , to find the water . 
'Never fear , said his fleet footed comrade , 'I will fetch what the King wants . 
Just then the courtier arrived , bearing the King's command . 
'Dear me , he thought to himself , 'that's rather tiring ! I'll just rest for a few minutes it will be some little time yet before the King has got to dessert . 
So he threw himself down on the grass , and , as the sun was very dazzling , he closed his eyes , and in a few seconds had fallen sound asleep . 
In the meantime all the ship's crew were anxiously awaiting him the King's dinner would soon be finished , and their comrade had not yet returned . 
So the man with the marvellous quick hearing lay down and , putting his ear to the ground , listened . 
'That's a nice sort of fellow ! he suddenly exclaimed . 
And a moment later the swift runner reappeared , and , stepping on board the ship , handed the healing water to the Simpleton . 
So while the King was still sitting at table finishing his dinner news was brought to him that his orders had been obeyed to the letter . 
What was to be done now ? The King determined to think of a still more impossible task . 
So he told another courtier to go to the Simpleton with the command that he and his comrades were instantly to eat up twelve oxen and twelve tons of bread . 
Once more the sharp eared comrade overheard the King's words while he was still talking to the courtier , and reported them to the Simpleton . 
'Never fear , said the glutton . 
'It will scarcely be enough for me , I'm so hungry . 
So when the courtier arrived with the royal message he was told to take back word to the King that his orders should be obeyed . 
Then twelve roasted oxen and twelve tons of bread were brought alongside of the ship , and at one sitting the glutton had devoured it all . 
'I call that a small meal , he said . 
'I wish they'd brought me some more . 
Next , the King ordered that forty casks of wine , containing forty gallons each , were to be drunk up on the spot by the Simpleton and his party . 
When these words were overheard by the sharp eared comrade and repeated to the Simpleton , he was in despair . 
'I'll drink it all up at a gulp , see if I don't . 
I should have been glad of two more casks . 
Now the bath room was built of iron , and the King gave orders that it was to be heated to such a pitch that it would suffocate the Simpleton . 
And so when the poor silly youth entered the room , he discovered that the iron walls were red hot . 
So the Simpleton climbed up upon the stove , and , wrapping himself up in the bath blankets , lay there the whole night . 
And in the morning when they opened the door there he lay sound and safe , singing cheerfully to himself . 
'Tell the rascal to raise me an army , now at this instant ! he exclaimed to one of his courtiers . 
'Inform him at once of this , my royal will . 
And to himself he added , 'I think I shall do for him this time . 
As on former occasions , the quick eared comrade had overheard the King's command and repeated it to the Simpleton . 
'Alas , alas ! he groaned 'now I am quite done for . 
'Good ! remarked the Simpleton . 
'I will raise an army for the King , and he drew himself up . 
'But if , after that , the King refuses to accept me as his son in law , I will wage war against him , and carry the Princess off by force . 
And , stepping to the window , he saw the lances gleam in the sunlight and the armour and weapons glitter . 
And the proud monarch said to himself , 'I am powerless in comparison with this man . 
So he sent him royal robes and costly jewels , and commanded him to come to the palace to be married to the Princess . 
Never before had so grand a wedding been seen , and there was so much food and wine that even the glutton and the thirsty comrade had enough to eat and drink . 
THE SNOW DAUGHTER AND THE FIRE SON From the Bukowinaer Tales and Legends . 
There was once upon a time a man and his wife , and they had no children , which was a great grief to them . 
She sighed , and turning to her husband said , 'I wish I had as many children as there are icicles hanging there . 
'Nothing would please me more either , replied her husband . 
But after a short time the woman gave birth to a little girl , who was as white as snow and as cold as ice . 
If they brought the child anywhere near the fire , it screamed loudly till they put it back into some cool place . 
The little maid throve wonderfully , and in a few months she could run about and speak . 
Her father and mother called her simply 'Our Snow daughter , and this name stuck to her all her life . 
One day her parents sat by the fire , talking over the extraordinary behaviour of their daughter , who was disporting herself in the snowstorm that raged outside . 
The Snow daughter herself avoided him as much as she could , and always crept into a corner as far away from him as possible . 
The parents called the boy simply 'Our Fire son , a name which stuck to him all his life . 
They had a great deal of trouble and worry with him too but he throve and grew very quickly , and before he was a year old he could run about and talk . 
Just as the girl grew up into a beautiful woman , her father and mother both died one after the other . 
So they put on the fur cloaks , and set out cheerfully on their way , and for the first time in their lives quite happy in each other's company . 
The Fire son built himself a hut where he always kept up a huge fire , while his sister with very few clothes on stayed outside night and day . 
Now it happened one day that the King of the land held a hunt in this wood , and saw the Snow daughter wandering about in the open air . 
He wondered very much who the beautiful girl clad in such garments could be , and he stopped and spoke to her . 
He soon learnt that she could not stand heat , and that her brother could not endure cold . 
The King was so charmed by the Snow daughter , that he asked her to be his wife . 
The girl consented , and the wedding was held with much state . 
The King had a huge house of ice made for his wife underground , so that even in summer it did not melt . 
But for his brother in law he had a house built with huge ovens all round it , that were kept heated all day and night . 
The Fire son was delighted , but the perpetual heat in which he lived made his body so hot , that it was dangerous to go too close to him . 
One day the King gave a great feast , and asked his brother in law among the other guests . 
The Fire son did not appear till everyone had assembled , and when he did , everyone fled outside to the open air , so intense was the heat he gave forth . 
Then the King was very angry and said , 'If I had known what a lot of trouble you would have been , I would never have taken you into my house . 
And before the King had time to reply , the Fire son seized him in a tight embrace . 
When the Snow daughter saw this she turned on her brother and flew at him . 
Then a fight began , the like of which had never been seen on earth . 
When the people , attracted by the noise , hurried to the spot , they saw the Snow daughter melting into water and the Fire son burn to a cinder . 
And so ended the unhappy brother and sister . 
THE STORY OF KING FROST From the Russian . 
There was once upon a time a peasant woman who had a daughter and a step daughter . 
The daughter had her own way in everything , and whatever she did was right in her mother's eyes but the poor step daughter had a hard time . 
But her step mother did not like her , and the poor girl's days were spent in weeping for it was impossible to live peacefully with the woman . 
Send her out into the fields , and let the cutting frost do for her . 
In vain did the poor old father weep and implore her pity she was firm , and he dared not gainsay her . 
Deserted by her father , the poor girl sat down under a fir tree at the edge of the forest and began to weep silently . 
Suddenly she heard a faint sound it was King Frost springing from tree to tree , and cracking his fingers as he went . 
At length he reached the fir tree beneath which she was sitting , and with a crisp crackling sound he alighted beside her , and looked at her lovely face . 
'Well , maiden , he snapped out , 'do you know who I am ? I am King Frost , king of the red noses . 
'All hail to you , great King ! answered the girl , in a gentle , trembling voice . 
'Have you come to take me ? 'Are you warm , maiden ? he replied . 
'Quite warm , King Frost , she answered , though she shivered as she spoke . 
And she put it on , and looked more lovely than ever , and King Frost stepped with her into his sledge , with six white horses . 
In the meantime the wicked step mother was waiting at home for news of the girl's death , and preparing pancakes for the funeral feast . 
And she said to her husband 'Old man , you had better go out into the fields and find your daughter's body and bury her . 
'Hold your tongue , you foolish beast ! scolded the woman . 
'There's a pancake for you , but you must say HER daughter shall have much silver and gold HIS daughter is frozen quite stiff and cold . 
But the doggie ate up the pancake and barked , saying 'His daughter shall wear a crown on her head Her daughter shall die unwooed , unwed . 
Then the old woman tried to coax the doggie with more pancakes and to terrify it with blows , but he barked on , always repeating the same words . 
For a moment the step mother's eyes were dazzled . 
But the doggie beneath the table began to bark , saying 'Your daughter is frozen quite stiff and cold , And shall never have a chest full of gold . 
'Don't tell such wicked lies ! scolded the woman . 
'There's a cake for you now say HER daughter shall marry a mighty King . 
At that moment the door flew open , and she rushed out to meet her daughter , and as she took her frozen body in her arms she too was chilled to death . 
THE DEATH OF THE SUN HERO From the Bukowinaer Tales and Legends . 
Many , many thousand years ago there lived a mighty King whom heaven had blessed with a clever and beautiful son . 
When he was only ten years old the boy was cleverer than all the King's counsellors put together , and when he was twenty he was the greatest hero in the whole kingdom . 
All the people in the land loved him dearly , and called him the Sun Hero , for they did not think his like existed under the sun . 
Now it happened one night that both his parents had the same extraordinary dream . 
The Prince was delighted at the prospect , and set out on his travels that very day . 
He followed his directions , and rode on his way , and after another ninety nine days he arrived at a golden castle , which stood in the middle of a vast wilderness . 
He knocked at the door , which was opened noiselessly and by invisible hands . 
Finding no one about , the Prince rode on , and came to a great meadow , where the Sun Tree grew . 
When he reached the tree he put out his hand to pick a golden apple but all of a sudden the tree grew higher , so that he could not reach its fruit . 
Then he heard some one behind him laughing . 
You must guard the tree for nine days and nine nights from the ravages of two wild black wolves , who will try to harm it . 
Do you think you can undertake this ? 'Yes , answered the Sun Hero , 'I will guard the Tree of the Sun nine days and nine nights . 
Then the girl continued 'Remember , though , if you do not succeed the Sun will kill you . 
With these words the Red Girl went back into the golden castle . 
The Sun Hero chased them away once more , but he had hardly sat down to rest when the two black wolves were on the scene again . 
The Fairy , foreseeing this , put everyone in the world under a spell , which prevents their obeying the Sun's command to take your life . 
But all the same , she has forgotten one person , who will certainly kill you if you fall asleep and let the wolves damage the tree . 
So watch and keep the wolves away . 
The youth mounted his horse sadly , and rode home . 
So cheer up and be happy . 
After a time the Prince forgot all about his adventure , and married a beautiful Princess , with whom he lived very happily for some time . 
And a similar fate will overtake everyone under the Sun who wrongfully assumes a title to which he has no right . 
THE WITCH From the Russian . 
Once upon a time there was a peasant whose wife died , leaving him with two children twins a boy and a girl . 
So he married , and in the following years several children were born to him but peace and order did not come to the household . 
You will have to wait upon her and serve her , but you will be well rewarded , for she will give you the best of everything . 
Now listen to me , children . 
You must be civil and kind to everyone , and never say a cross word to anyone , and never touch a crumb belonging to anyone else . 
'Who's there ? she snarled , in an awful voice , when she saw the children . 
'See that you do it well , then , growled the witch . 
And the girl gave them the bread that her grandmother had given her . 
And as she was trying to comfort him they heard a rustling of wings , and a flight of wrens alighted on the ground beside them . 
And the wrens said 'Give us some crumbs , then you need not grieve . 
For you'll find that water will stay in the sieve . 
Then the twins crumbled their bread on the ground , and the wrens pecked it , and chirruped and chirped . 
And when they had eaten the last crumb they told the boy to fill up the holes of the sieve with clay , and then to draw water from the well . 
So he did what they said , and carried the sieve full of water into the hut without spilling a drop . 
When they entered the hut the cat was curled up on the floor . 
As soon as the handkerchief touched the ground a deep , broad river would spring up , which would hinder the witch's progress . 
The cat had scarcely finished speaking when the witch returned to see if the children had fulfilled their tasks . 
In the morning the witch gave the girl two pieces of linen to weave before night , and the boy a pile of wood to cut into chips . 
Then the witch left them to their tasks , and went out into the wood . 
Then they were hindered by the birch trees , whose branches almost put their eyes out . 
In the meantime in the hut the cat was busy weaving the linen and tangling the threads as it wove . 
Then the witch was furious with the watch dog and with the birch trees , because they had let the children pass . 
So when the witch came up to it on her broom she found that there was nothing for it but to turn round and go back to her hut . 
But the twins ran straight on till they reached their own home . 
THE HAZEL NUT CHILD From the Bukowniaer . 
At last Heaven heard their prayer and sent them a child exactly the size of a hazel nut , and it never grew an inch . 
The parents were very devoted to the little creature , and nursed and tended it carefully . 
Their tiny son too was as clever as he could be , and so sharp and sensible that all the neighbours marvelled over the wise things he said and did . 
What do you intend to be ? 'A messenger , answered the Hazel nut child . 
So his mother said , 'Very well , go to your aunt in the neighbouring village , and fetch me a comb . 
The Hazel nut child jumped quickly out of the egg shell and ran out into the street . 
Here he found a man on horseback who was just setting out for the neighbouring village . 
He crept up the horse's leg , sat down under the saddle , and then began to pinch the horse and to prick it with a pin . 
The horse plunged and reared and then set off at a hard gallop , which it continued in spite of its rider's efforts to stop it . 
When they reached the village , the Hazel nut child left off pricking the horse , and the poor tired creature pursued its way at a snail's pace . 
The Hazel nut child took advantage of this , and crept down the horse's leg then he ran to his aunt and asked her for a comb . 
On the way home he met another rider , and did the return journey in exactly the same way . 
His father too possessed a horse which he often used to take out into the fields to graze . 
One day he took the Hazel nut child with him . 
At midday the father turned to his small son and said , 'Stay here and look after the horse . 
I must go home and give your mother a message , but I shall be back soon . 
So he mounted the horse and rode away . 
One autumn when the Hazel nut child was twenty years old he said to his parents 'Farewell , my dear father and mother . 
I am going to set out into the world , and as soon as I have become rich I will return home to you . 
The parents laughed at the little man's words , but did not believe him for a moment . 
In the evening the Hazel nut child crept on to the roof , where some storks had built their nest . 
The next morning the storks flew towards the south , for winter was approaching . 
In this way he reached the country of the black people , where the storks took up their abode close to the capital . 
When the people saw the Hazel nut child they were much astonished , and took him with the stork to the King of the country . 
So the Hazel nut child and his parents lived in happiness and prosperity after this till they died . 
THE STORY OF BIG KLAUS AND LITTLE KLAUS In a certain village there lived two people who had both the same name . 
Both were called Klaus , but one owned four horses and the other only one . 
In order to distinguish the one from the other , the one who had four horses was called Big Klaus , and the one who had only one horse , Little Klaus . 
Now you shall hear what befell them both , for this is a true story . 
Hurrah ! how loudly Little Klaus cracked his whip over all the five horses ! for they were indeed as good as his on this one day . 
'Only one horse is yours . 
'Alas ! Now I have no horse ! said Little Klaus , beginning to cry . 
He had a long way to go , and had to pass through a great dark forest . 
Right in front of him was a large farm house . 
The window shutters were closed , but the light came through the chinks . 
'I should very much like to be allowed to spend the night there , thought Little Klaus and he went and knocked at the door . 
The farmer's wife opened it , but when she heard what he wanted she told him to go away her husband was not at home , and she took in no strangers . 
'Well , I must lie down outside , said Little Klaus and the farmer's wife shut the door in his face . 
Close by stood a large haystack , and between it and the house a little out house , covered with a flat thatched roof . 
'I can lie down there , thought Little Klaus , looking at the roof 'it will make a splendid bed , if only the stork won't fly down and bite my legs . 
For a live stork was standing on the roof , where it had its nest . 
So Little Klaus crept up into the out house , where he lay down , and made himself comfortable for the night . 
The wooden shutters over the windows were not shut at the top , and he could just see into the room . 
There stood a large table , spread with wine and roast meat and a beautiful fish . 
The farmer's wife and the sexton sat at the table , but there was no one else . 
She was filling up his glass , while he stuck his fork into the fish which was his favourite dish . 
'If one could only get some of that ! thought Little Klaus , stretching his head towards the window . 
Ah , what delicious cakes he saw standing there ! It WAS a feast ! Then he heard someone riding along the road towards the house . 
It was the farmer coming home . 
He was a very worthy man but he had one great peculiarity namely , that he could not bear to see a sexton . 
If he saw one he was made quite mad . 
But when they heard the farmer coming they were frightened , and the farmer's wife begged the sexton to creep into a great empty chest . 
He did so , as he knew the poor man could not bear to see a sexton . 
The wife hastily hid all the beautiful food and the wine in her oven for if her husband had seen it , he would have been sure to ask what it all meant . 
'Oh , dear ! oh , dear ! groaned Little Klaus up in the shed , when he saw the good food disappearing . 
'Is anybody up there ? asked the farmer , catching sight of Little Klaus . 
'Why are you lying there ? Come with me into the house . 
Then Little Klaus told him how he had lost his way , and begged to be allowed to spend the night there . 
Under the table at his feet he had laid the sack with the horse skin in it , for , as we know , he was going to the town to sell it . 
The porridge did not taste good to him , so he trod upon his sack , and the dry skin in the sack squeaked loudly . 
'Hush ! said Little Klaus to his sack , at the same time treading on it again so that it squeaked even louder than before . 
'Hallo ! what have you got in your sack ? asked the farmer . 
'Oh , it is a wizard ! said Little Klaus . 
'He says we should not eat porridge , for he has conjured the whole oven full of roast meats and fish and cakes . 
The wife could say nothing , but she put the food at once on the table , and they ate the fish , the roast meat , and the cakes . 
Little Klaus now trod again on his sack , so that the skin squeaked . 
'What does he say now ? asked the farmer . 
He would very much like to have had such a wizard as Little Klaus had in the sack . 
'Can he conjure up the Devil ? asked the farmer . 
'I should like to see him very much , for I feel just now in very good spirits ! 'Yes , said Little Klaus 'my wizard can do everything that I ask . 
Isn't that true ? he asked , treading on the sack so that it squeaked . 
'Do you hear ? He says ''Yes '' but that the Devil looks so ugly that we should not like to see him . 
'Oh ! I'm not at all afraid . 
I know that it is the Devil , and I sha'n't mind ! I feel up to it now . 
But he must not come too near me ! 'I must ask my wizard , said Little Klaus , treading on the sack and putting his ear to it . 
'Will you help me to hold him ? begged the farmer , going towards the chest where his wife had hidden the real sexton , who was sitting inside in a terrible fright . 
The farmer opened the lid a little way , and saw him inside . 
'Ugh ! he shrieked , springing back . 
'Yes , now I have seen him he looked just like our sexton . 
Oh , it was horrid ! So he had to drink again , and they drank till far on into the night . 
'You MUST sell me the wizard , said the farmer . 
'Ask anything you like ! I will pay you down a bushelful of money on the spot . 
'No , I really can't , said Little Klans . 
'Just think how many things I can get from this wizard ! 'Ah ! I should like to have him so much ! said the farmer , begging very hard . 
'Well ! said Little Klaus at last , 'as you have been so good as to give me shelter to night , I will sell him . 
You shall have the wizard for a bushel of money , but I must have full measure . 
'That you shall , said the farmer . 
'But you must take the chest with you . 
I won't keep it another hour in the house . 
Who knows that he isn't in there still ? Little Klaus gave the farmer his sack with the dry skin , and got instead a good bushelful of money . 
The farmer also gave him a wheelbarrow to carry away his money and the chest . 
'Farewell , said Little Klaus and away he went with his money and the big chest , wherein sat the sexton . 
On the other side of the wood was a large deep river . 
The water flowed so rapidly that you could scarcely swim against the stream . 
If it swims home to me , well and good and if it doesn't , it's no matter . 
Then he took the chest with one hand and lifted it up a little , as if he were going to throw it into the water . 
'No , don't do that ! called out the sexton in the chest . 
'Let me get out first ! 'Oh , oh ! said Little Klaus , pretending that he was afraid . 
'He is still in there ! I must throw him quickly into the water to drown him ! 'Oh ! no , no ! cried the sexton . 
'I will give you a whole bushelful of money if you will let me go ! 'Ah , that's quite another thing ! said Little Klaus , opening the chest . 
The sexton crept out very quickly , pushed the empty chest into the water and went to his house , where he gave Little Klaus a bushel of money . 
One he had had already from the farmer , and now he had his wheelbarrow full of money . 
'Well , I have got a good price for the horse ! said he to himself when he shook all his money out in a heap in his room . 
'Now what can he want with it ? thought Big Klaus and he smeared some tar at the bottom , so that of whatever was measured a little should remain in it . 
And this is just what happened for when he got his measure back , three new silver five shilling pieces were sticking to it . 
What does this mean ? said Big Klaus , and he ran off at once to Little Klaus . 
'Where did you get so much money from ? 'Oh , that was from my horse skin . 
I sold it yesterday evening . 
'Skins ! skins ! Who will buy skins ? he cried through the streets . 
All the shoemakers and tanners came running to ask him what he wanted for them . 
'A bushel of money for each , said Big Klaus . 
'Are you mad ? they all exclaimed . 
'He is making game of us , they said and the shoemakers seized their yard measures and the tanners their leathern aprons and they gave Big Klaus a good beating . 
'Aha ! said he when he came home , 'Little Klaus shall pay dearly for this . 
I will kill him ! Little Klaus' grandmother had just died . 
There she lay the whole night , while he sat in the corner and slept on a chair , which he had often done before . 
And in the night as he sat there the door opened , and Big Klaus came in with his axe . 
He knew quite well where Little Klaus's bed stood , and going up to it he struck the grandmother on the head just where he thought Little Klaus would be . 
'Now you won't get the best of me again ! And he went home . 
'What a very wicked man ! thought Little Klaus . 
When the sun rose they were in front of a large inn . 
Little Klaus got down , and went in to get something to drink . 
The host was very rich . 
He was a very worthy but hot tempered man . 
'Good morning ! said he to Little Klaus . 
'You are early on the road . 
'Yes , said Little Klaus . 
'I am going to the town with my grandmother . 
She is sitting outside in the cart I cannot bring her in . 
Will you not give her a glass of mead ? But you will have to speak loud , for she is very hard of hearing . 
'Here is a glass of mead from your son , said the host . 
But the dead woman did not answer a word , and sat still . 
'Don't you hear ? cried the host as loud as he could . 
'Hullo ! cried Little Klaus , running out of the door , and seizing the host by the throat . 
'You have killed my grandmother ! Look ! there is a great hole in her forehead ! 'Oh , what a misfortune ! cried the host , wringing his hands . 
So Little Klaus got a bushel of money , and the host buried his grandmother as if she had been his own . 
Now when Little Klaus again reached home with so much money he sent his boy to Big Klaus to borrow his bushel measure . 
'What's this ? said Big Klaus . 
'Didn't I kill him ? I must see to this myself ! So he went himself to Little Klaus with the measure . 
'Well , now , where did you get all this money ? asked he , opening his eyes at the heap . 
'You killed my grandmother not me , said Little Klaus . 
'I sold her , and got a bushel of money for her . 
'Who is it , and how did you get it ? asked the apothecary . 
'It is my grandmother , said Big Klaus . 
'I killed her in order to get a bushel of money . 
'You are mad ! said the apothecary . 
The apothecary and all the people thought he must be mad , so they let him go . 
'You shall pay for this ! said Big Klaus as he drove home . 
The road passed by the church the organ was sounding , and the people were singing most beautifully . 
Big Klaus put down the sack with Little Klaus in it by the church door , and thought that he might as well go in and hear a psalm before going on farther . 
Little Klaus could not get out , and everybody was in church so he went in . 
'Oh , dear ! oh , dear ! groaned Little Klaus in the sack , twisting and turning himself . 
But he could not undo the string . 
There came by an old , old shepherd , with snow white hair and a long staff in his hand . 
He was driving a herd of cows and oxen . 
These pushed against the sack so that it was overturned . 
'How easy he is to carry now ! That must be because I heard part of the service . 
'What's this ? said Big Klaus . 
'They are sea cattle ! said Little Klaus . 
Along it they travel underneath from the sea to the land till the river ends . 
It was so beautiful , full of flowers and fresh grass the fishes which were swimming in the water shot past my ears as the birds do here in the air . 
What lovely people there were , and what fine cattle were grazing in the ditches and dykes ! 'But why did you come up to us again ? asked Big Klaus . 
'I should not have done so , if it is so beautiful down below ! 'Oh ! said Little Klaus , 'that was just so politic of me . 
But I know what windings the river makes , now here , now there , so that it is a long way round . 
Therefore it makes it much shorter if one comes on the land and drives across the field to the river . 
Thus I have spared myself quite half a mile , and have come much quicker to my sea cattle ! 'Oh , you're a lucky fellow ! said Big Klaus . 
'Do you think I should also get some cattle if I went to the bottom of the river ? 'Oh , yes ! I think so , said Little Klaus . 
When the cattle , which were thirsty , caught sight of the water , they ran as quickly as they could to drink . 
'Look how they are running ! said Little Klaus . 
'Put a stone in , for I am afraid I may not reach the bottom , said Big Klaus . 
'It goes all right ! said Little Klaus but still he laid a big stone in the sack , fastened it up tight , and then pushed it in . 
Plump ! there was Big Klaus in the water , and he sank like lead to the bottom . 
'I doubt if he will find any cattle ! said Little Klaus as he drove his own home . 
PRINCE RING From the Icelandic . 
Once upon a time there was a King and his Queen in their kingdom . 
They had one daughter , who was called Ingiborg , and one son , whose name was Ring . 
He was less fond of adventures than men of rank usually were in those days , and was not famous for strength or feats of arms . 
When he was twelve years old , one fine winter day he rode into the forest along with his men to enjoy himself . 
They went on a long way , until they caught sight of a hind with a gold ring on its horns . 
The Prince was eager to catch it , if possible , so they gave chase and rode on without stopping until all the horses began to founder beneath them . 
At last the Prince's horse gave way too , and then there came over them a darkness so black that they could no longer see the hind . 
By this time they were far away from any house , and thought it was high time to be making their way home again , but they found they had got lost now . 
At first they all kept together , but soon each began to think that he knew the right way best so they separated , and all went in different directions . 
The Prince went up to her and saluted her politely , and she received him very graciously . 
As he was thus bending down into it the woman suddenly rose up and pushed him in head first , saying that now he could take up his quarters there . 
Then she fixed the top on the barrel and threw it out into the sea . 
The Prince thought himself in a bad plight now , as he felt the barrel floating out from the land and tossing about on the waves . 
He gave him to his wife , saying he had found this child in the wood , and she could have it to help her in the house . 
The old woman was greatly pleased , and began to fondle the Prince with the utmost delight . 
He stayed there with them , and was very willing and obedient to them in everything , while they grew kinder to him every day . 
So one day , when the Giant had gone into the forest , he tried to get into the parlour , and managed to get the door open half way . 
He then got angry with himself , and , summoning up all his courage , tried it a third time , and opened the door of the room and stood firm . 
Then he saw that it was a big Dog , which spoke to him and said 'Choose me , Prince Ring . 
The Prince went away rather afraid , thinking with himself that it was no great treasure after all but all the same what it had said to him stuck in his mind . 
He also thanked him for his good service , and told him to choose some one of his possessions , for he would get whatever he wanted . 
The Giant was taken by surprise , and said 'There , you chose my old woman's right hand but I must not break my word . 
After this the Giant accompanied him down to the sea , where he saw a stone boat which was just big enough to hold the two of them and the Dog . 
After he had walked on in silence for a time the Dog spoke to him and said 'You don't seem to have much curiosity , seeing you never ask my name . 
The Prince then forced himself to ask , 'What is your name ? 'You had best call me Snati Snati , said the Dog . 
'Now we are coming to a King's seat , and you must ask the King to keep us all winter , and to give you a little room for both of us . 
The Prince now began to be less afraid of the Dog . 
They came to the King and asked him to keep them all the winter , to which he agreed . 
They replied that they didn't care a bit what he thought . 
After Ring had been with the King for some days the latter began to think there was a great deal in him , and esteemed him more than the others . 
The King replied that it was only a short time since he had come there . 
Red then asked him to send them both to cut down wood next morning , and see which of them could do most work . 
Next morning the King asked Ring and Red to go and cut down trees for him , and both agreed . 
In the evening the King came to look over their day's work , as Red had proposed , and found that Ring's wood heap was more than twice as big . 
'I suspected , said the King , 'that Ring was not quite useless never have I seen such a day's work . 
Ring was now in far greater esteem with the King than before , and Red was all the more discontented . 
Not knowing how dangerous the oxen were , Ring was quite ready , and went off at once , to the great delight of Red , who was now sure of his death . 
As soon as Ring came in sight of the oxen they came bellowing to meet him one of them was tremendously big , the other rather less . 
'How do you like them ? asked Snati . 
'Not well at all , said the Prince . 
'We can do nothing else , said Snati , 'than attack them , if it is to go well you will go against the little one , and I shall take the other . 
With this Snati leapt at the big one , and was not long in bringing him down . 
Each of them then began to flay their own ox , but Ring was only half through by the time Snati had finished his . 
The Prince agreed , and laid everything on the Dog except the skin of the smaller ox , which he staggered along with himself . 
The King was greatly surprised at his valour , and said he knew no one like him , and thanked him heartily for what he had done . 
One day a good idea came into his head . 
He came to the King and said he had something to say to him . 
'What is that ? said the King . 
Red said that he had just remembered the gold cloak , gold chess board , and bright gold piece that the King had lost about a year before . 
'Don't remind me of them ! said the King . 
One day , a month or so before Christmas , the King spoke to Ring , saying that he wished to ask a great favour of him . 
'What is that ? said Ring . 
If you can bring them to me before Christmas I will give you my daughter in marriage . 
'Where am I to look for them , then ? said Ring . 
'That you must find out for yourself , said the King 'I don't know . 
The Prince assented to this , and began to prepare for the journey . 
'We must go up here , said Snati . 
'I don't think that will be child's play , said the Prince . 
'Hold fast by my tail , said Snati and in this way he pulled Ring up on the lowest shelf of the rock . 
The Prince began to get giddy , but up went Snati on to the second shelf . 
Ring was nearly swooning by this time , but Snati made a third effort and reached the top of the cliff , where the Prince fell down in a faint . 
After a little , however , he recovered again , and they went a short distance along a level plain , until they came to a cave . 
This was on Christmas Eve . 
'Now you must empty all the salt into the porridge pot , said Snati . 
Ring did so , and soon the trolls wakened up . 
The old hag , who was the most frightful of them all , went first to taste the porridge . 
'I won't go , said she , 'unless you lend me your bright gold piece . 
'Though I should die you shan't have that , said the hag . 
'Die , then , said the girl . 
'Well , then , take it , you brat , said the old hag , 'and be off with you , and make haste with the water . 
The girl took the gold and ran out with it , and it was so bright that it shone all over the plain . 
'I won't go , said he , 'unless I get the gold cloak . 
'Though I should die you shan't have that , said the hag . 
'Die , then , said the son . 
'Well , then , take it , said the old hag , 'and be off with you , but you must make haste with the water . 
He put on the cloak , and when he came outside it shone so bright that he could see to go with it . 
'I won't go , said the old troll , 'unless you lend me the gold chess board . 
'Though I should die you shan't have that , said the hag . 
'I think you may just as well do that , said he , 'since you won't grant me such a little favour . 
'Take it , then , you utter disgrace ! said the old hag , 'since you are just like these two brats . 
Before they had got back again , however , and up on top of the cave , they saw the poor old fellow's ghost come marching up from the river . 
Snati immediately sprang upon him , and Ring assisted in the attack , and after a hard struggle they mastered him a second time . 
When they got back again to the window they saw that the old hag was moving towards the door . 
'Now we must go in at once , said Snati , 'and try to master her there , for if she once gets out we shall have no chance with her . 
She is the worst witch that ever lived , and no iron can cut her . 
One of us must pour boiling porridge out of the pot on her , and the other punch her with red hot iron . 
In they went then , and no sooner did the hag see them than she said , 'So you have come , Prince Ring you must have seen to my husband and children . 
Then they burned the old troll and her to ashes , and explored the cave , where they found plenty of gold and treasures . 
The most valuable of these they carried with them as far as the cliff , and left them there . 
Then they hastened home to the King with his three treasures , where they arrived late on Christmas night , and Ring handed them over to him . 
Snati , however , asked permission to sleep in the Prince's bed for that night , while the Prince should sleep where the Dog usually lay . 
Ring said he was welcome to do so , and that he deserved more from him than that came to . 
So the King sent for Ring and asked him for what reason he had done this . 
Snati , however , had just told Ring what had happened during the night , and in reply he asked the King to go with him and he would show him something . 
The King went with him to his sleeping room , and saw lying on the bed a man's hand holding a sword . 
'This hand , said Ring , 'came over the partition during the night , and was about to run me through in my bed , if I had not defended myself . 
The King answered that in that case he could not blame him for protecting his own life , and that Red was well worthy of death . 
So Red was hanged , and Ring married the King's daughter . 
The first night that they went to bed together Snati asked Ring to allow him to lie at their feet , and this Ring allowed him to do . 
Ring instantly took the skin and burned it , and then shook the Prince , who was lying unconscious , until he woke up . 
The bridegroom then asked his name he replied that he was called Ring , and was a King's son . 
He added further , 'As soon as she knew that you were my namesake she tried to get you destroyed , so that you might not free me from the spell . 
After the feasting was over the two namesakes , along with other men , went to the cliff and brought all the treasure home to the Palace . 
Then they went to the island and removed all that was valuable from it . 
THE SWINEHERD There was once a poor Prince . 
He possessed a kingdom which , though small , was yet large enough for him to marry on , and married he wished to be . 
There were hundreds of princesses who would gladly have said 'Yes , but would she say the same ? Well , we shall see . 
On the grave of the Prince's father grew a rose tree , a very beautiful rose tree . 
And he had also a nightingale which could sing as if all the beautiful melodies in the world were shut up in its little throat . 
This rose and this nightingale the Princess was to have , and so they were both put into silver caskets and sent to her . 
The Emperor had them brought to him in the great hall , where the Princess was playing 'Here comes a duke a riding' with her ladies in waiting . 
And when she caught sight of the big caskets which contained the presents , she clapped her hands for joy . 
'If only it were a little pussy cat ! she said . 
But the rose tree with the beautiful rose came out . 
'But how prettily it is made ! said all the ladies in waiting . 
'It is more than pretty , said the Emperor , 'it is charming ! But the Princess felt it , and then she almost began to cry . 
It sang so beautifully that one could scarcely utter a cross word against it . 
'Superbe ! charmant ! said the ladies in waiting , for they all chattered French , each one worse than the other . 
'How much the bird reminds me of the musical snuff box of the late Empress ! said an old courtier . 
'Ah , yes , it is the same tone , the same execution ! 'Yes , said the Emperor and then he wept like a little child . 
'I hope that this , at least , is not real ? asked the Princess . 
'Yes , it is a real bird , said those who had brought it . 
'Then let the bird fly away , said the Princess and she would not on any account allow the Prince to come . 
'But he was nothing daunted . 
He painted his face brown and black , drew his cap well over his face , and knocked at the door . 
'Good day , Emperor , he said . 
Stay , it has just occurred to me that I want someone to look after the swine , for I have so very many of them . 
And the Prince got the situation of Imperial Swineherd . 
That was indeed something quite different from the rose . 
'Why , that is what I play ! she said . 
'He must be a most accomplished Swineherd ! Listen ! Go down and ask him what the instrument costs . 
And one of the ladies in waiting had to go down but she put on wooden clogs . 
'What will you take for the pot ? asked the lady in waiting . 
'I will have ten kisses from the Princess , answered the Swineherd . 
'Heaven forbid ! said the lady in waiting . 
'Yes , I will sell it for nothing less , replied the Swineherd . 
'Well , what does he say ? asked the Princess . 
'I really hardly like to tell you , answered the lady in waiting . 
'Oh , then you can whisper it to me . 
'He is disobliging ! said the Princess , and went away . 
But she had only gone a few steps when the bells rang out so prettily 'Where is Augustus dear ? Alas ! he's not here , here , here . 
'Listen ! said the Princess . 
'Ask him whether he will take ten kisses from my ladies in waiting . 
'No , thank you , said the Swineherd . 
'Ten kisses from the Princess , or else I keep my pot . 
'That is very tiresome ! said the Princess . 
'But you must put yourselves in front of me , so that no one can see . 
And the ladies in waiting placed themselves in front and then spread out their dresses so the Swineherd got his ten kisses , and she got the pot . 
The ladies in waiting danced and clapped their hands . 
'But don't say anything about it , for I am the Emperor's daughter . 
'Oh , no , of course we won't ! said everyone . 
'But that is superbe ! said the Princess as she passed by . 
'I have never heard a more beautiful composition . 
Listen ! Go down and ask him what this instrument costs but I won't kiss him again . 
'He wants a hundred kisses from the Princess , said the lady in waiting who had gone down to ask him . 
'I believe he is mad ! said the Princess , and then she went on but she had only gone a few steps when she stopped . 
'One ought to encourage art , she said . 
'I am the Emperor's daughter ! Tell him he shall have , as before , ten kisses the rest he can take from my ladies in waiting . 
'But we don't at all like being kissed by him , said the ladies in waiting . 
'That's nonsense , said the Princess 'and if I can kiss him , you can too . 
Besides , remember that I give you board and lodging . 
So the ladies in waiting had to go down to him again . 
'A hundred kisses from the Princess , said he , 'or each keeps his own . 
'Put yourselves in front of us , she said then and so all the ladies in waiting put themselves in front , and he began to kiss the Princess . 
'What can that commotion be by the pigsties ? asked the Emperor , who was standing on the balcony . 
He rubbed his eyes and put on his spectacles . 
'Why those are the ladies in waiting playing their games I must go down to them . 
So he took off his shoes , which were shoes though he had trodden them down into slippers . 
'What is that ? he said , when he saw the kissing and then he threw one of his slippers at their heads just as the Swineherd was taking his eighty sixth kiss . 
'Be off with you ! said the Emperor , for he was very angry . 
And the Princess and the Swineherd were driven out of the empire . 
Then she stood still and wept the Swineherd was scolding , and the rain was streaming down . 
'Alas , what an unhappy creature I am ! sobbed the Princess . 
'I now come to this . 
I despise you ! he said . 
'You would have nothing to do with a noble Prince you did not understand the rose or the nightingale , but you could kiss the Swineherd for the sake of a toy . 
So he travelled through the whole world to find one , but there was always something against each . 
There were plenty of Princesses , but he could not find out if they were true Princesses . 
In every case there was some little defect , which showed the genuine article was not yet found . 
So he came home again in very low spirits , for he had wanted very much to have a true Princess . 
One night there was a dreadful storm it thundered and lightened and the rain streamed down in torrents . 
It was fearful ! There was a knocking heard at the Palace gate , and the old King went to open it . 
And yet she said she was a true Princess ! 'Well , we shall soon find that ! thought the old Queen . 
But she said nothing , and went into the sleeping room , took off all the bed clothes , and laid a pea on the bottom of the bed . 
Then she put twenty mattresses on top of the pea , and twenty eider down quilts on the top of the mattresses . 
And this was the bed in which the Princess was to sleep . 
The next morning she was asked how she had slept . 
'Oh , very badly ! said the Princess . 
'I scarcely closed my eyes all night ! I am sure I don't know what was in the bed . 
I laid on something so hard that my whole body is black and blue . 
It is dreadful ! Now they perceived that she was a true Princess , because she had felt the pea through the twenty mattresses and the twenty eider down quilts . 
No one but a true Princess could be so sensitive . 
So the Prince married her , for now he knew that at last he had got hold of a true Princess . 
And the pea was put into the Royal Museum , where it is still to be seen if no one has stolen it . 
Now this is a true story . 
The chance came and they took it . 
On the second morning the Scotsman saw from the top of his tree a great castle far away . 
He said to himself that he would certainly die if he stayed in the forest without anything to eat but the roots of grass , which would not keep him alive very long . 
He thought there was nothing for it but to die after all , and had lain down beside the wall , when he heard a window being opened high above him . 
At this he looked up , and saw the most beautiful woman he had ever set eyes on . 
'Oh , it is Fortune that has sent you to me , he said . 
'It is indeed , said she . 
'What are you in need of , or what has sent you here ? 'Necessity , said he . 
'I am dying for want of food and drink . 
'Come inside , then , she said 'there is plenty of both here . 
Accordingly he went in to where she was , and she opened a large room for him , where he saw a number of men lying asleep . 
She then set food before him , and after that showed him to the room where the others were . 
He lay down on one of the beds and fell sound asleep . 
And now we must go back to the two that he left behind him in the wood . 
The poor Irishman was now left all alone , and did not know where the others had gone to , so he just stayed where he was , very sad and miserable . 
When night came he climbed up into the same tree as the Englishman had been on the night before . 
As soon as day came he also saw the castle , and set out towards it but when he reached it he could see no signs of fire or living being about it . 
Before long , however , he heard the window opened above his head , looked up , and beheld the most beautiful woman he had ever seen . 
He asked if she would give him food and drink , and she answered kindly and heartily that she would , if he would only come inside . 
This he did very willingly , and she set before him food and drink that he had never seen the like of before . 
'I shall tell you that , said she . 
If ever I saw a man who looked likely to do this , you are the one . 
I have been here for sixteen years now , and no one who ever came to the castle has asked me who I was , except yourself . 
Every other man that has come , so long as I have been here , lies asleep in the big room down there . 
'Tell me , then , said the Irishman , 'what is the spell that has been laid on you , and how you can be freed from it . 
'I am the man for you , then , said he 'I will take on hand to do it . 
The next moment the door came flying in , and those outside along with it . 
They knocked him down , and kicked him , and knelt on his body till it came to midnight but as soon as the cock crew they all disappeared . 
The Irishman was little more than alive by this time . 
As soon as daylight appeared the Princess came , and found him lying full length on the floor , unable to speak a word . 
The Princess , however , entreated him to stay , saying that the next night would not be so bad , and in the end he gave in and stayed . 
When it was getting near midnight he heard them ordering him to open the door , and there were three of them for every one that there had been the previous evening . 
He did not make the slightest movement to go out to them or to open the door , but before long they broke it up , and were in on top of him . 
They laid hold of him , and kept throwing him between them up to the ceiling , or jumping above him , until the cock crew , when they all disappeared . 
When day came the Princess went to the room to see if he was still alive , and taking the bottle put it to his nostrils , which soon brought him to himself . 
When morning dawned , and the Princess came to see if he was still alive , she found him lying on the floor as if dead . 
She tried to see if there was breath in him , but could not quite make it out . 
Then she put her hand on his pulse , and found a faint movement in it . 
Accordingly she poured what was in the bottle on him , and before long he rose up on his feet , and was as well as ever he was . 
So that business was finished , and the Princess was freed from the spell . 
The Princess then told the Irishman that she must go away for the present , but would return for him in a few days in a carriage drawn by four grey horses . 
He told her to 'be aisy , and not speak like that to him . 
'I have paid dear for you for the last three nights , he said , 'if I have to part with you now but in the twinkling of an eye she had disappeared . 
'Where did you come from , my lad ? said the Irishman . 
'I came to make ready your food for you , said he . 
'Who told you to do that ? said the Irishman . 
'My mistress , answered the lad 'the Princess that was under the spell and is now free . 
By this the Irishman knew that she had sent the lad to wait on him . 
The lad also told him that his mistress wished him to be ready next morning at nine o'clock , when she would come for him with the carriage , as she had promised . 
Before long the Princess came with the carriage and four horses , and asked the lad whether his master was awake . 
He said that he wasn't . 
'It is bad for him , said she , 'when the night is not long enough for him to sleep . 
Tell him that if he doesn't meet me at this time to morrow it is not likely that he will ever see me again all his life . 
As soon as she was gone the lad took the pin out of his master's coat , who instantly awoke . 
He was very sorry when he heard this , and could not understand why the sleep should have fallen upon him just when she was coming . 
He decided , however , to go early to bed that night , in order to rise in time nest morning , and so he did . 
'Dear ! dear ! said the Princess , 'I am sorry for him . 
With this she went off , and as soon as she had gone the lad took the pin out of his master's coat . 
The Irishman was ready to kill the lad out of sheer vexation , but when he gave a glance over his shoulder not a trace of the fair haired lad was left . 
They started to their feet at once , and he gave them as much silver and gold as they could carry when they went away . 
There was plenty to do before he got all the others wakened , for the two doors of the castle were crowded with them all the day long . 
So he took the best horse in the stable and set out . 
Three years he spent travelling through forests and wildernesses , but could find no one able to tell him anything of the Princess . 
He looked at this , and read there , 'You will find me in the Blue Mountains . 
After he had gone a long way without thinking where he was going , he saw at last a light far away , and made straight for it . 
Seeing a stranger on horseback , he asked what brought him there and where he was going . 
'I have lived here , said he , 'for three hundred years , and all that time I have not seen a single human being but yourself . 
'I have been going about for the last three years , said the Irishman , 'to see if I could find anyone who can tell me where the Blue Mountains are . 
'Come in , said the old man , 'and stay with me all night . 
The Irishman stayed there all night , and as soon as morning came rose to go . 
The old man said he had not gone to sleep all night for going through the book , but there was not a word about the Blue Mountains in it . 
The Irishman answered that he could never go these nine hundred miles , for his horse was giving in already . 
'That doesn't matter , said the old man 'I can do better than that . 
I have only to blow my whistle and you will be at my brother's house before nightfall . 
'I am going to see if I can find anyone that can tell me where the Blue Mountains are , he said . 
He stayed there all night , but there was not a word in the book about the Blue Mountains . 
So he blew his whistle , and the Irishman landed at the brother's house before nightfall . 
When the old man saw him he said he had not seen a single man for three hundred years , and was very much surprised to see anyone come to him now . 
'Where are you going to ? he said . 
'I am going about asking for the Blue Mountains , said the Irishman . 
'The Blue Mountains ? said the old man . 
'Yes , said the Irishman . 
'I never heard the name before but if they do exist I shall find them out . 
I am master of all the birds in the world , and have only to blow my whistle and every one will come to me . 
I shall then ask each of them to tell where it came from , and if there is any way of finding out the Blue Mountains that is it . 
So he blew his whistle , and when he blew it then all the birds of the world began to gather . 
The old man questioned each of them as to where they had come from , but there was not one of them that had come from the Blue Mountains . 
After he had run over them all , however , he missed a big Eagle that was wanting , and wondered that it had not come . 
Soon afterwards he saw something big coming towards him , darkening the sky . 
'I couldn't help it , she said 'I had more than twenty times further to come than any bird that has come here to day . 
'Where have you come from , then ? said the old man . 
'From the Blue Mountains , said she . 
For three years now she has refused to marry anyone whatsoever , until she should give up all hope of the coming of the man who released her from the spell . 
Now she can wait no longer , for three years is the time that she agreed with her father to remain without marrying . 
The old man noticed how sad he grew , and asked the Eagle what she would take for carrying this man on her back to the Blue Mountains . 
'I must have threescore cattle killed , said she , 'and cut up into quarters , and every time I look over my shoulder he must throw one of them into my mouth . 
As soon as the Irishman and the old man heard her demand they went out hunting , and before evening they had killed three score cattle . 
Then the old man told the Irishman to mount , and to remember to throw a quarter of beef to her every time she looked round . 
Fortunately the points of his toes just touched the bottom , and he managed to get ashore . 
When he went up into the town all the streets were gleaming with light , and the wedding of the Princess was just about to begin . 
He went into the first house he came to , and this happened to be the house of the King's hen wife . 
He asked the old woman what was causing all the noise and light in the town . 
'There is a guinea for you , said he 'go and bring her here . 
The old woman went , and soon returned along with the Princess . 
She and the Irishman recognised each other , and were married , and had a great wedding that lasted for a year and a day . 
An old Witch met him on the road . 
She was very ugly to look at her under lip hung down to her breast . 
'Good evening , Soldier ! she said . 
'Do you see that great tree there ? said the Witch , pointing to a tree beside them . 
You must climb up to the top , and then you will see a hole through which you can let yourself down into the tree . 
I will tie a rope round your waist , so that I may be able to pull you up again when you call . 
'What shall I do down there ? asked the Soldier . 
'Get money ! answered the Witch . 
'Listen ! When you reach the bottom of the tree you will find yourself in a large hall it is light there , for there are more than three hundred lamps burning . 
Then you will see three doors , which you can open the keys are in the locks . 
If you would rather have silver , you must go into the next room , where there is a dog with eyes as large as mill wheels . 
But don't take any notice of him just set him upon my apron , and help yourself to the money . 
If you prefer gold , you can get that too , if you go into the third room , and as much as you like to carry . 
'But what am I to give you , old Witch for surely you are not going to do this for nothing ? 'Yes , I am ! replied the Witch . 
'Not a single farthing will I take ! For me you shall bring nothing but an old tinder box which my grandmother forgot last time she was down there . 
'Well , tie the rope round my waist ! 'said the Soldier . 
'Here it is , said the Witch , 'and here is my blue check apron . 
Well , he opened the first door . 
Ugh ! there sat the dog with eyes as big as saucers glaring at him . 
Sure enough there sat the dog with eyes as large as mill wheels . 
'You had better not look at me so hard ! said the Soldier . 
'Your eyes will come out of their sockets ! And then he set the dog on the apron . 
When he saw all the silver in the chest , he threw away the copper he had taken , and filled his pockets and knapsack with nothing but silver . 
Then he went into the third room . 
Horrors ! the dog there had two eyes , each as large as the Round Tower at Copenhagen , spinning round in his head like wheels . 
'Good evening ! said the Soldier and saluted , for he had never seen a dog like this before . 
Now he was rich indeed . 
'Botheration ! said the Soldier , 'I had clean forgotten it ! And then he went back and fetched it . 
The Witch pulled him up , and there he stood again on the high road , with pockets , knapsack , cap and boots filled with gold . 
'What do you want to do with the tinder box ? asked the Soldier . 
'That doesn't matter to you , replied the Witch . 
'You have got your money , give me my tinder box . 
'We'll see ! said the Soldier . 
'Tell me at once what you want to do with it , or I will draw my sword , and cut off your head ! 'No ! screamed the Witch . 
The Soldier immediately cut off her head . 
It was a splendid town ! He turned into the finest inn , ordered the best chamber and his favourite dinner for now that he had so much money he was really rich . 
It certainly occurred to the servant who had to clean his boots that they were astonishingly old boots for such a rich lord . 
But that was because he had not yet bought new ones next day he appeared in respectable boots and fine clothes . 
'How can one get to see her ? asked the Soldier . 
'I should very much like to see her , thought the Soldier but he could not get permission . 
Now he was rich , wore fine clothes , and made many friends , who all said that he was an excellent man , a real nobleman . 
And the Soldier liked that . 
None of his friends came to visit him there , for there were too many stairs to climb . 
It was a dark evening , and he could not even buy a light . 
'This is a pretty kind of tinder box , if I can get whatever I want like this . 
Get me money ! he cried to the dog , and hey , presto ! he was off and back again , holding a great purse full of money in his mouth . 
Now the Soldier knew what a capital tinder box this was . 
Now , the Soldier went down again to his beautiful rooms , and appeared once more in splendid clothes . 
All his friends immediately recognised him again , and paid him great court . 
One day he thought to himself 'It is very strange that no one can get to see the Princess . 
'It is the middle of the night , I know , said the Soldier 'but I should very much like to see the Princess for a moment . 
The dog was already outside the door , and before the Soldier could look round , in he came with the Princess . 
She was lying asleep on the dog's back , and was so beautiful that anyone could see she was a real Princess . 
The Soldier really could not refrain from kissing her he was such a thorough Soldier . 
Then the dog ran back with the Princess . 
'That is certainly a fine story , said the Queen . 
But the next night one of the ladies in waiting was to watch at the Princess's bed , to see if it was only a dream , or if it had actually happened . 
The Soldier had an overpowering longing to see the Princess again , and so the dog came in the middle of the night and fetched her , running as fast as he could . 
But the lady in waiting slipped on indiarubber shoes and followed them . 
When she saw them disappear into a large house , she thought to herself 'Now I know where it is 'and made a great cross on the door with a piece of chalk . 
Then she went home and lay down , and the dog came back also , with the Princess . 
Early next morning the King , Queen , ladies in waiting , and officers came out to see where the Princess had been . 
'There it is ! said the King , when he saw the first door with a cross on it . 
'No , there it is , my dear ! said the Queen , when she likewise saw a door with a cross . 
'But here is one , and there is another ! they all exclaimed wherever they looked there was a cross on the door . 
Then they realised that the sign would not help them at all . 
But the Queen was an extremely clever woman , who could do a great deal more than just drive in a coach . 
She took her great golden scissors , cut up a piece of silk , and made a pretty little bag of it . 
The dog did not notice how the grains were strewn right from the castle to the Soldier's window , where he ran up the wall with the Princess . 
In the morning the King and the Queen saw plainly where their daughter had been , and they took the Soldier and put him into prison . 
Oh , how dark and dull it was there ! And they told him 'To morrow you are to be hanged . 
Hearing that did not exactly cheer him , and he had left his tinder box in the inn . 
Next morning he could see through the iron grating in front of his little window how the people were hurrying out of the town to see him hanged . 
He heard the drums and saw the soldiers marching all the people were running to and fro . 
'Oh , shoemaker's boy , you needn't be in such a hurry ! said the Soldier to him . 
'There's nothing going on till I arrive . 
But if you will run back to the house where I lived , and fetch me my tinder box , I will give you four shillings . 
But you must put your best foot foremost . 
The shoemaker's boy was very willing to earn four shillings , and fetched the tinder box , gave it to the Soldier , and yes now you shall hear . 
Outside the town a great scaffold had been erected , and all round were standing the soldiers , and hundreds of thousands of people . 
The King and Queen were sitting on a magnificent throne opposite the judges and the whole council . 
He would so much like to smoke a small pipe of tobacco it would be his last pipe in this world . 
The King could not refuse him this , and so he took out his tinder box , and rubbed it once , twice , three times . 
'Help me now , so that I may not be hanged ! cried the Soldier . 
'I won't stand this ! said the King but the largest dog seized him too , and the Queen as well , and threw them up after the others . 
The Princess came out of the copper castle , and became Queen and that pleased her very much . 
The wedding festivities lasted for eight days , and the dogs sat at table and made eyes at everyone . 
THE WITCH IN THE STONE BOAT From the Icelandic . 
There were once a King and a Queen , and they had a son called Sigurd , who was very strong and active , and good looking . 
Sigurd was not averse to this , and asked his father where he thought it best to look for a wife . 
The King answered that in a certain country there was a King who had a beautiful daughter , and he thought it would be most desirable if Sigurd could get her . 
So the two parted , and Sigurd prepared for the journey , and went to where his father had directed him . 
Sigurd accepted this condition , but added that he would have to get leave to go home again to his own country when he heard news of his father's death . 
After that Sigurd married the Princess , and helped his father in law to govern the kingdom . 
Sigurd now prepared to return home with his wife and child , and went on board ship to go by sea . 
They had sailed for several days , when the breeze suddenly fell , and there came a dead calm , at a time when they needed only one day's voyage to reach home . 
Sigurd and his Queen were one day on deck , when most of the others on the ship had fallen asleep . 
There they sat and talked for a while , and had their little son along with them . 
A good while after Sigurd had gone below the Queen saw something black on the sea , which seemed to be coming nearer . 
As it approached she could make out that it was a boat , and could see the figure of some one sitting in it and rowing it . 
The Queen was more frightened than words can describe , and could neither speak a word nor move from the place so as to awaken the King or the sailors . 
The Queen sat stunned and motionless , but the boat at once shot away from the ship with her , and before long she was out of sight . 
It was great carelessness of him , she said , to leave no one to watch the ship with her . 
Then he went and wakened the sailors , and bade them hoist the sails , for a breeze had sprung up and was blowing straight towards the harbour . 
As soon as the child got into her charge he stopped crying , and behaved well as before . 
After the sea voyage it seemed to the King that the Queen had altered very much in many ways , and not for the better . 
He thought her much more haughty and stubborn and difficult to deal with than she used to be . 
Before long others began to notice this as well as the King . 
Their room was next the Queen's , and often during the day they heard the Queen talking . 
As she said this she yawned tremendously , and in a moment had put on the appearance of a fearfully ugly troll . 
She began to eat out of it , and never stopped till she had finished it . 
The young fellows saw all this going on , but did not hear the two of them say anything to each other . 
As soon as she had finished it the Giant disappeared with the trough by the same way as he had come , and the Queen returned to her human shape . 
Now we must go back to the King's son after he had been put in charge of the nurse . 
Although the woman had not spoken a single word to her , the nurse was very much frightened , but told no one about it . 
The King promised to do so , and came to the nurse's room a little before the time , and sat down on a chair with his drawn sword in his hand . 
Soon after the planks in the floor sprang up as before , and the woman came up , dressed in white , with the iron belt and chain . 
The King saw at once that it was his own Queen , and immediately hewed asunder the iron chain that was fastened to the belt . 
At last , however , the noises and shaking stopped , and they began to come to themselves again . 
After she had gone so far that she could not see the ship , she sailed on through darkness until she landed beside a three headed Giant . 
The Giant wished her to marry him , but she refused whereupon he shut her up by herself , and told her she would never get free until she consented . 
The Giant's dwelling , indeed , was right under the Palace , and the terrible shakings must have been caused by him in his death throes . 
The King now understood how the Queen he had had for some time past had been so ill tempered . 
He at once had a sack drawn over her head and made her be stoned to death , and after that torn in pieces by untamed horses . 
The real Queen was now restored to all her dignity , and was beloved by all . 
The nurse was married to a nobleman , and the King and Queen gave her splendid presents . 
THUMBELINA There was once a woman who wanted to have quite a tiny , little child , but she did not know where to get one from . 
'Here is a barley corn for you , but it's not the kind the farmer sows in his field , or feeds the cocks and hens with , I can tell you . 
Put it in a flower pot , and then you will see something happen . 
'Oh , thank you ! said the woman , and gave the Witch a shilling , for that was what it cost . 
'What a beautiful flower ! exclaimed the woman , and she kissed the red and yellow petals but as she kissed them the flower burst open . 
She was scarcely half a thumb in height so they called her Thumbelina . 
An elegant polished walnut shell served Thumbelina as a cradle , the blue petals of a violet were her mattress , and a rose leaf her coverlid . 
It was such a pretty sight ! She could sing , too , with a voice more soft and sweet than had ever been heard before . 
One night , when she was lying in her pretty little bed , an old toad crept in through a broken pane in the window . 
She was very ugly , clumsy , and clammy she hopped on to the table where Thumbelina lay asleep under the red rose leaf . 
There flowed a great wide stream , with slippery and marshy banks here the toad lived with her son . 
'Don't talk so load , or you'll wake her , said the old toad . 
'She might escape us even now she is as light as a feather . 
We will put her at once on a broad water lily leaf in the stream . 
That will be quite an island for her she is so small and light . 
She can't run away from us there , whilst we are preparing the guest chamber under the marsh where she shall live . 
Outside in the brook grew many water lilies , with broad green leaves , which looked as if they were swimming about on the water . 
The leaf farthest away was the largest , and to this the old toad swam with Thumbelina in her walnut shell . 
She wanted to fetch the pretty cradle to put it into her room before Thumbelina herself came there . 
The old toad bowed low in the water before her , and said 'Here is my son you shall marry him , and live in great magnificence down under the marsh . 
'Croak , croak , croak ! was all that the son could say . 
The little fishes swimming about under the water had seen the toad quite plainly , and heard what she had said so they put up their heads to see the little girl . 
When they saw her , they thought her so pretty that they were very sorry she should go down with the ugly toad to live . 
No that must not happen . 
They assembled in the water round the green stalk which supported the leaf on which she was sitting , and nibbled the stem in two . 
Away floated the leaf down the stream , bearing Thumbelina far beyond the reach of the toad . 
A beautiful little white butterfly fluttered above her , and at last settled on the leaf . 
She took off her sash , and tied one end round the butterfly the other end she fastened to the leaf , so that now it glided along with her faster than ever . 
The green leaf floated away down the stream , and the butterfly with it , for he was fastened to the leaf and could not get loose from it . 
'How ugly she is ! said all the lady chafers and yet Thumbelina was really very pretty . 
So he flew down from the tree with her and put her on a daisy . 
The whole summer poor little Thumbelina lived alone in the great wood . 
Thus the summer and autumn passed , but then came winter the long , cold winter . 
She was terribly cold , for her clothes were ragged , and she herself was so small and thin . 
Poor little Thumbelina ! she would surely be frozen to death . 
She wrapt herself round in a dead leaf , but it was torn in the middle and gave her no warmth she was trembling with cold . 
Just outside the wood where she was now living lay a great corn field . 
But the corn had been gone a long time only the dry , bare stubble was left standing in the frozen ground . 
This made a forest for her to wander about in . 
All at once she came across the door of a field mouse , who had a little hole under a corn stalk . 
There the mouse lived warm and snug , with a store room full of corn , a splendid kitchen and dining room . 
Poor little Thumbelina went up to the door and begged for a little piece of barley , for she had not had anything to eat for the last two days . 
'Poor little creature ! said the field mouse , for she was a kind hearted old thing at the bottom . 
'Come into my warm room and have some dinner with me . 
And Thumbelina did all that the kind old field mouse asked , and did it remarkably well too . 
'Now I am expecting a visitor , said the field mouse 'my neighbour comes to call on me once a week . 
He is in better circumstances than I am , has great , big rooms , and wears a fine black velvet coat . 
If you could only marry him , you would be well provided for . 
You must tell him all the prettiest stories you know . 
But Thumbelina did not trouble her head about him , for he was only a mole . 
He came and paid them a visit in his black velvet coat . 
'He is so rich and so accomplished , the field mouse told her . 
The mole took a piece of rotten wood in his mouth , for that glows like fire in the dark , and went in front , lighting them through the long dark passage . 
Thumbelina was very sorry , for she was very fond of all little birds they had sung and twittered so beautifully to her all through the summer . 
'Yes , you speak like a sensible man , said the field mouse . 
'Perhaps it was he that sang to me so prettily in the summer , she thought . 
'How much pleasure he did give me , dear little bird ! The mole closed up the hole again which let in the light , and then escorted the ladies home . 
'Farewell , pretty little bird ! she said . 
But the bird was not dead he had been frozen , but now that she had warmed him , he was coming to life again . 
Thumbelina trembled , she was so frightened for the bird was very large in comparison with herself only an inch high . 
But she took courage , piled up the down more closely over the poor swallow , fetched her own coverlid and laid it over his head . 
Next night she crept out again to him . 
'Thank you , pretty little child ! said the swallow to her . 
'I am so beautifully warm ! Soon I shall regain my strength , and then I shall be able to fly out again into the warm sunshine . 
So at last he had dropped down exhausted , and then he could remember no more . 
The whole winter he remained down there , and Thumbelina looked after him and nursed him tenderly . 
Neither the mole nor the field mouse learnt anything of this , for they could not bear the poor swallow . 
The sun shone brightly down upon her , and the swallow asked her if she would go with him she could sit upon his back . 
Thumbelina wanted very much to fly far away into the green wood , but she knew that the old field mouse would be sad if she ran away . 
'No , I mustn't come ! she said . 
'Farewell , dear good little girl ! said the swallow , and flew off into the sunshine . 
Thumbelina gazed after him with the tears standing in her eyes , for she was very fond of the swallow . 
'Tweet , tweet ! sang the bird , and flew into the green wood . 
She was not allowed to go out into the warm sunshine . 
Yes , when the summer had passed , they would keep the wedding . 
But she was not at all pleased about it , for she did not like the stupid mole . 
But he never came no doubt he had flown away far into the great green wood . 
By the autumn Thumbelina had finished the dowry . 
His store room and cellar are full , and you should be thankful for that . 
Well , the wedding day arrived . 
The poor little girl was very sad for now she must say good bye to the beautiful sun . 
'Farewell , farewell ! she said , and put her arms round a little red flower that grew there . 
'Give my love to the dear swallow when you see him ! 'Tweet , tweet ! sounded in her ear all at once . 
There was the swallow flying past ! As soon as he saw Thumbelina , he was very glad . 
'The cold winter is coming now , said the swallow . 
Up he flew into the air , over woods and seas , over the great mountains where the snow is always lying . 
And if she was cold she crept under his warm feathers , only keeping her little head out to admire all the beautiful things in the world beneath . 
But the swallow flew on farther , and it became more and more beautiful . 
Under the most splendid green trees besides a blue lake stood a glittering white marble castle . 
Vines hung about the high pillars there were many swallows' nests , and in one of these lived the swallow who was carrying Thumbelina . 
'Here is my house ! said he . 
'But it won't do for you to live with me I am not tidy enough to please you . 
Find a home for yourself in one of the lovely flowers that grow down there now I will set you down , and you can do whatever you like . 
'That will be splendid ! said she , clapping her little hands . 
There lay a great white marble column which had fallen to the ground and broken into three pieces , but between these grew the most beautiful white flowers . 
The swallow flew down with Thumbelina , and set her upon one of the broad leaves . 
He was the spirit of the flower . 
In each blossom there dwelt a tiny man or woman but this one was the King over the others . 
'How handsome he is ! whispered Thumbelina to the swallow . 
The little Prince was very much frightened at the swallow , for in comparison with one so tiny as himself he seemed a giant . 
But when he saw Thumbelina , he was delighted , for she was the most beautiful girl he had ever seen . 
Yes ! he was a different kind of husband to the son of the toad and the mole with the black velvet coat . 
So she said 'Yes' to the noble Prince . 
And out of each flower came a lady and gentleman , each so tiny and pretty that it was a pleasure to see them . 
'You shall not be called Thumbelina ! said the spirit of the flower to her 'that is an ugly name , and you are much too pretty for that . 
We will call you May Blossom . 
'Farewell , farewell ! said the little swallow with a heavy heart , and flew away to farther lands , far , far away , right back to Denmark . 
There he had a little nest above a window , where his wife lived , who can tell fairy stories . 
'Tweet , tweet ! he sang to her . 
And that is the way we learnt the whole story . 
THE NIGHTINGALE In China , as I daresay you know , the Emperor is a Chinaman , and all his courtiers are also Chinamen . 
The story I am going to tell you happened many years ago , but it is worth while for you to listen to it , before it is forgotten . 
The Emperor's Palace was the most splendid in the world , all made of priceless porcelain , but so brittle and delicate that you had to take great care how you touched it . 
Everything in the Emperor's garden was admirably arranged with a view to effect and the garden was so large that even the gardener himself did not know where it ended . 
If you ever got beyond it , you came to a stately forest with great trees and deep lakes in it . 
The forest sloped down to the sea , which was a clear blue . 
Large ships could sail under the boughs of the trees , and in these trees there lived a Nightingale . 
She sang so beautifully that even the poor fisherman who had so much to do stood and listened when he came at night to cast his nets . 
'How beautiful it is ! he said but he had to attend to his work , and forgot about the bird . 
But they did not forget the Nightingale she was praised the most , and all the poets composed splendid verses on the Nightingale in the forest by the deep sea . 
The books were circulated throughout the world , and some of them reached the Emperor . 
He sat in his golden chair , and read and read . 
He nodded his head every moment , for he liked reading the brilliant accounts of the town , the Palace , and the garden . 
'But the Nightingale is better than all , he saw written . 
'What is that ? said the Emperor . 
'Here is a most remarkable bird which is called a Nightingale ! said the Emperor . 
'They say it is the most glorious thing in my kingdom . 
Why has no one ever said anything to me about it ? 'I have never before heard it mentioned ! said the First Lord . 
And the First Lord ran again to the Emperor , and told him that it must be an invention on the part of those who had written the books . 
Everyone was asking after the wonderful Nightingale which all the world knew of , except those at Court . 
At last they met a poor little girl in the kitchen , who said , 'Oh ! I know the Nightingale well . 
And so they all went into the wood where the Nightingale was wont to sing , and half the Court went too . 
When they were on the way there they heard a cow mooing . 
'We are still a long way off ! Then the frogs began to croak in the marsh . 
'Splendid ! said the Chinese chaplain . 
'Now we hear her it sounds like a little church bell ! 'No , no those are frogs ! said the little kitchenmaid . 
'But I think we shall soon hear her now ! Then the Nightingale began to sing . 
'There she is ! cried the little girl . 
'Listen ! She is sitting there ! And she pointed to a little dark grey bird up in the branches . 
'Is it possible ! said the First Lord . 
'It sounds like glass bells ! said the First Lord . 
'And look how her little throat works ! It is wonderful that we have never heard her before ! She will be a great success at Court . 
'Shall I sing once more for the Emperor ? asked the Nightingale , thinking that the Emperor was there . 
At the Palace everything was splendidly prepared . 
The porcelain walls and floors glittered in the light of many thousand gold lamps the most gorgeous flowers which tinkled out well were placed in the corridors . 
There was such a hurrying and draught that all the bells jingled so much that one could not hear oneself speak . 
In the centre of the great hall where the Emperor sat was a golden perch , on which the Nightingale sat . 
The whole Court was there , and the little kitchenmaid was allowed to stand behind the door , now that she was a Court cook . 
Everyone was dressed in his best , and everyone was looking towards the little grey bird to whom the Emperor nodded . 
The Nightingale sang so gloriously that the tears came into the Emperor's eyes and ran down his cheeks . 
Then the Nightingale sang even more beautifully it went straight to all hearts . 
The Emperor was so delighted that he said she should wear his gold slipper round her neck . 
But the Nightingale thanked him , and said she had had enough reward already . 
'I have seen tears in the Emperor's eyes that is a great reward . 
An Emperor's tears have such power ! Then she sang again with her gloriously sweet voice . 
'That is the most charming coquetry I have ever seen ! said all the ladies round . 
And they all took to holding water in their mouths that they might gurgle whenever anyone spoke to them . 
Then they thought themselves nightingales . 
Yes , the lackeys and chambermaids announced that they were pleased which means a great deal , for they are the most difficult people of all to satisfy . 
In short , the Nightingale was a real success . 
She had to stay at Court now she had her own cage , and permission to walk out twice in the day and once at night . 
She was given twelve servants , who each held a silken string which was fastened round her leg . 
There was little pleasure in flying about like this . 
Yes , and eleven grocer's children were called after her , but not one of them could sing a note . 
One day the Emperor received a large parcel on which was written 'The Nightingale . 
'Here is another new book about our famous bird ! said the Emperor . 
When it was wound up , it could sing the piece the real bird sang , and moved its tail up and down , and glittered with silver and gold . 
Round its neck was a little collar on which was written , 'The Nightingale of the Emperor of Japan is nothing compared to that of the Emperor of China . 
'This is magnificent ! they all said , and the man who had brought the clockwork bird received on the spot the title of 'Bringer of the Imperial First Nightingale . 
'It is not its fault ! said the bandmaster 'it keeps very good time and is quite after my style ! Then the artificial bird had to sing alone . 
It gave just as much pleasure as the real one , and then it was so much prettier to look at it sparkled like bracelets and necklaces . 
Three and thirty times it sang the same piece without being tired . 
'What SHALL we do ! said the Emperor . 
And all the Court scolded , and said that the Nightingale was very ungrateful . 
'But we have still the best bird ! they said and the artificial bird had to sing again , and that was the thirty fourth time they had heard the same piece . 
But they did not yet know it by heart it was much too difficult . 
They should hear it sing , commanded the Emperor . 
For the Emperor counted that side as the more distinguished , being the side on which the heart is the Emperor's heart is also on the left . 
And the bandmaster wrote a work of twenty five volumes about the artificial bird . 
So a whole year passed . 
The Emperor , the Court , and all the Chinese knew every note of the artificial bird's song by heart . 
Bat they liked it all the better for this they could even sing with it , and they did . 
The street boys sang 'Tra la la la la , and the Emperor sang too sometimes . 
But one evening , when the artificial bird was singing its best , and the Emperor lay in bed listening to it , something in the bird went crack . 
Something snapped ! Whir r r ! all the wheels ran down and then the music ceased . 
Here was a calamity ! Only once a year was the artificial bird allowed to sing , and even that was almost too much for it . 
But then the bandmaster made a little speech full of hard words , saying that it was just as good as before . 
And so , of course , it WAS just as good as before . 
So five years passed , and then a great sorrow came to the nation . 
The Chinese look upon their Emperor as everything , and now he was ill , and not likely to live it was said . 
Already a new Emperor had been chosen , and the people stood outside in the street and asked the First Lord how the old Emperor was . 
'P ! said he , and shook his head . 
Cold and pale lay the Emperor in his splendid great bed the whole Court believed him dead , and one after the other left him to pay their respects to the new Emperor . 
Everywhere in the halls and corridors cloth was laid down so that no footstep could be heard , and everything was still very , very still . 
And nothing came to break the silence . 
The Emperor longed for something to come and relieve the monotony of this deathlike stillness . 
If only someone would speak to him ! If only someone would sing to him . 
Music would carry his thoughts away , and would break the spell lying on him . 
The moon was streaming in at the open window but that , too , was silent , quite silent . 
'Music ! music ! cried the Emperor . 
There was no one to wind it up , and so it could not sing . 
And all was silent , so terribly silent ! All at once there came in at the window the most glorious burst of song . 
It was the little living Nightingale , who , sitting outside on a bough , had heard the need of her Emperor and had come to sing to him of comfort and hope . 
And as she sang the blood flowed quicker and quicker in the Emperor's weak limbs , and life began to return . 
'Thank you , thank you ! said the Emperor . 
'You divine little bird ! I know you . 
I chased you from my kingdom , and you have given me life again ! How can I reward you ? 'You have done that already ! said the Nightingale . 
'I brought tears to your eyes the first time I sang . 
I shall never forget that . 
They are jewels that rejoice a singer's heart . 
But now sleep and get strong again I will sing you a lullaby . 
And the Emperor fell into a deep , calm sleep as she sang . 
The sun was shining through the window when he awoke , strong and well . 
None of his servants had come back yet , for they thought he was dead . 
But the Nightingale sat and sang to him . 
'You must always stay with me ! said the Emperor . 
'You shall sing whenever you like , and I will break the artificial bird into a thousand pieces . 
'Don't do that ! said the Nightingale . 
'He did his work as long as he could . 
Keep him as you have done ! I cannot build my nest in the Palace and live here but let me come whenever I like . 
I will sit in the evening on the bough outside the window , and I will sing you something that will make you feel happy and grateful . 
I will sing of joy , and of sorrow I will sing of the evil and the good which lies hidden from you . 
The little singing bird flies all around , to the poor fisherman's hut , to the farmer's cottage , to all those who are far away from you and your Court . 
I love your heart more than your crown , though that has about it a brightness as of something holy . 
'One thing I beg of you ! Don't tell anyone that you have a little bird who tells you everything . 
It will be much better not to ! Then the Nightingale flew away . 
The servants came in to look at their dead Emperor . 
The Emperor said , 'Good morning ! HERMOD AND HADVOR From the Icelandic . 
Hermod and Hadvor often played together while they were children , and liked each other so much that while they were still young they secretly plighted their troth to each other . 
As time went on the Queen fell sick , and suspecting that it was her last illness , sent for the King to come to her . 
The King gave the promise , and thereafter the Queen died . 
Time went past , and the King , growing tired of living alone , fitted out his ship and sailed out to sea . 
As he sailed there came upon him so thick a mist that he altogether lost his bearings , but after long trouble he found land . 
There he laid his ship to , and went on shore all alone . 
After walking for some time he came to a forest , into which he went a little way and stopped . 
The second was also finely dressed , but younger in appearance , and also sat on a chair , but it was not so grand as the first one's . 
After the King had looked at them for a little he went forward and saluted them . 
The King immediately asked her hand she gladly received his proposal and accepted him at once . 
Thereafter they all set out , and made their way to the ship and after that nothing is told of their voyage until the King reached his own country . 
There he made a great feast , and celebrated his marriage with this woman and after that things are quiet for a time . 
After this Hermod disappeared , and no one knew what had become of him the Queen caused search to be made for him , but he could nowhere be found . 
One time , when Olof was in the castle beside Hadvor , she asked the Princess if she knew where Hermod had gone to . 
At this Hadvor became very sad , and said that she did not . 
'I shall tell you then , said Olof , 'for I know all about it . 
Hermod has disappeared through the wicked devices of the Queen , for she is a witch , and so is her daughter , though they have put on these beautiful forms . 
Hadvor now became still sadder than before at the thought of the marriage destined for her , and entreated Olof to think of some plan to save her . 
That will prove too much for him . 
Hadvor remained in her castle , and had made preparations to receive her wooer when he came . 
One night , not long after , a loud noise and rumbling was heard under the castle . 
Hadvor at once guessed what it was , and told her maids to be ready to help her . 
The noise and thundering grew louder and louder , until the floor began to open , whereupon Hadvor made them take the caldron of pitch and pour plenty of it into the opening . 
With that the noises grew fainter and fainter , till at last they ceased altogether . 
Next morning the Queen rose early , and went out to the Palace gate , and there she found her brother the Giant lying dead . 
The body of the dead Giant now became that of a beautiful prince , and the Queen went in again . 
'I don't think , said she to the King , 'that your daughter is as good as she is said to be . 
My brother came and asked her hand , and she has had him put to death . 
I have just found his dead body lying at the Palace gate . 
The Queen asked leave to decide what Hadvor's punishment should be , which the King was very willing to allow , so as to escape from punishing his own daughter . 
The Queen's decision was that the King should make a big grave mound for her brother , and put Hadvor into it beside him . 
Olof knew all the plans of the Queen , and went to tell the Princess what had been done , whereupon Hadvor earnestly entreated her to tell her what to do . 
'First and foremost , said Olof , 'you must get a wide cloak to wear over your other clothes , when you are put into the mound . 
The Giant's ghost will walk after you are both left together in there , and he will have two dogs along with him . 
The mound was all ready now , and the Giant laid in it , and into it Hadvor also had to go without being allowed to make any defence . 
After they were both left there everything happened just as Olof had said . 
This Hadvor now did , and the Giant then let her get up on his shoulders to get out of the mound . 
As she sprang out he caught hold of her cloak but she had taken care to let it lie loose on her shoulders , and so escaped . 
She now made her way down to the sea , to where she knew there was the shortest distance over to the island in which Hermod was . 
This strait she easily crossed , for the shoes kept her up . 
On reaching the island she found a sandy beach all along by the sea , and high cliffs above . 
Nor could she see any way to get up these , and so , being both sad at heart and tired with the long journey , she lay down and fell asleep . 
As she slept she dreamed that a tall woman came to her and said , 'I know that you are Princess Hadvor , and are searching for Hermod . 
You need only hold the end of the thread , and the clew will run on before and show you the way . 
I also lay this belt beside you , to put on when you awaken it will keep you from growing faint with hunger . 
The woman now disappeared , and Hadvor woke , and saw that all her dream had been true . 
The rope hung down from the cliff , and the clew and belt lay beside her . 
She went into the cave , and saw there a low couch , under which she crept and lay down . 
She was sure this was Hermod , because she heard him speaking to himself about his own condition , and calling to mind Hadvor and other things in the old days . 
Hadvor made no sign , but waited till he had fallen asleep , and then crept out and burned the lion's skin , which he had left outside . 
Then she went back into the cave and wakened Hermod , and they had a most joyful meeting . 
In the morning they talked over their plans , and were most at a loss to know how to get out of the island . 
Hadvor told Hermod her dream , and said she suspected there was some one in the island who would be able to help them . 
Hermod said he knew of a Witch there , who was very ready to help anyone , and that the only plan was to go to her . 
So they went to the Witch's cave , and found her there with her fifteen young sons , and asked her to help them to get to the mainland . 
I shall lend you a boat , however , and if you meet the whale and think your lives are in danger , then you can name me by name . 
They were sure of what it was , and thought they had as good reason as ever they would have to call on the Witch , and so they did . 
The next minute they saw coming after them another huge whale , followed by fifteen smaller ones . 
All of these swam past the boat and went on to meet the whale . 
There was a fierce battle then , and the sea became so stormy that it was not very easy to keep the boat from being filled by the waves . 
Now the story goes back to the King's hall , where strange things had happened in the meantime . 
The Queen and her daughter had disappeared , but a rat and a mouse were always fighting with each other there . 
Ever so many people had tried to drive them away , but no one could manage it . 
Before Hermod sat down , however , he went to where the rat and the mouse were fighting , and cut them in two with his sword . 
All were astonished then by seeing two witches lying dead on the floor of the hall . 
Hermod now told the whole story to the King , who was very glad to be rid of such vile creatures . 
Olof married a good looking nobleman , and that is the end of the story . 
THE STEADFAST TIN SOLDIER There were once upon a time five and twenty tin soldiers all brothers , as they were made out of the same old tin spoon . 
Their uniform was red and blue , and they shouldered their guns and looked straight in front of them . 
In front of the castle stood some little trees surrounding a tiny mirror which looked like a lake . 
Wax swans were floating about and reflecting themselves in it . 
That was all very pretty but the most beautiful thing was a little lady , who stood in the open doorway . 
'That's the wife for me ! he thought 'but she is so grand , and lives in a castle , whilst I have only a box with four and twenty others . 
This is no place for her ! But I must make her acquaintance . 
When the night came all the other tin soldiers went into their box , and the people of the house went to bed . 
Then the toys began to play at visiting , dancing , and fighting . 
The tin soldiers rattled in their box , for they wanted to be out too , but they could not raise the lid . 
She remained on tip toe , with both arms outstretched he stood steadfastly on his one leg , never moving his eyes from her face . 
'Hullo , Tin soldier ! said the imp . 
'Don't look at things that aren't intended for the likes of you ! But the Tin soldier took no notice , and seemed not to hear . 
'Very well , wait till to morrow ! said the imp . 
Soon it began to drizzle then the drops came faster , and there was a regular down pour . 
When it was over , two little street boys came along . 
'Just look ! cried one . 
All at once the boat passed under a long tunnel that was as dark as his box had been . 
'Where can I be coming now ? he wondered . 
'Have you a passport ? asked the rat . 
'Out with your passport ! But the Tin soldier was silent , and grasped his gun more firmly . 
The boat sped on , and the rat behind it . 
The Tin soldier could already see daylight where the tunnel ended but in his ears there sounded a roaring enough to frighten any brave man . 
Now he was so near to it that he could not hold on any longer . 
On went the boat , the poor Tin soldier keeping himself as stiff as he could no one should say of him afterwards that he had flinched . 
Up and down swam the fish , then he made the most dreadful contortions , and became suddenly quite still . 
She was still standing on one leg with the other high in the air she too was steadfast . 
That touched the Tin soldier , he was nearly going to shed tin tears but that would not have been fitting for a soldier . 
He looked at her , but she said nothing . 
There was nothing left of the little Dancer but her gilt rose , burnt as black as a cinder . 
BLOCKHEAD HANS Far away in the country lay an old manor house where lived an old squire who had two sons . 
They thought themselves so clever , that if they had known only half of what they did know , it would have been quite enough . 
They both wanted to marry the King's daughter , for she had proclaimed that she would have for her husband the man who knew best how to choose his words . 
He understood , besides this , how to embroider braces with roses and other flowers , and scrolls , for he was very ready with his fingers . 
'I shall win the king's daughter ! they both cried . 
Then they oiled the corners of their mouths so that they might be able to speak more fluently . 
'Oh , oh ! said Blockhead Hans . 
'Hurrah ! I'll go to ! cried Blockhead Hans and the brothers laughed at him and rode off . 
'Dear father ! cried Blockhead Hans , 'I must have a horse too . 
What a desire for marriage has seized me ! If she will have me , she WILL have me , and if she won't have me , I will have her . 
'Stop that nonsense ! said the old man . 
'I will not give you a horse . 
YOU can't speak YOU don't know how to choose your words . 
He sat astride on the goat , struck his heels into its side , and went rattling down the high road like a hurricane . 
'Hoppetty hop ! what a ride ! Here I come ! shouted Blockhead Hans , singing so that the echoes were roused far and near . 
But his brothers were riding slowly in front . 
They were not speaking , but they were thinking over all the good things they were going to say , for everything had to be thought out . 
'Hullo ! bawled Blockhead Hans , 'here I am ! Just look what I found on the road ! and he showed them a dead crow which he had picked up . 
'Slap ! bang ! here I am ! cried Blockhead Hans 'better and better it is really famous ! 'What have you found now ? asked the brothers . 
But the brothers rode on so fast that dust and sparks flew all around , and they reached the gate of the town a good hour before Blockhead Hans . 
This was a very good thing , for otherwise they would have torn each other in pieces , merely because the one was in front of the other . 
It was fearful , and they had made up the fire so hot that it was grilling . 
'It is hot in here , isn't it ! said the suitor . 
'Of course it is ! My father is roasting young chickens to day ! said the Princess . 
'Ahem ! There he stood like an idiot . 
He was not prepared for such a speech he did not know what to say , although he wanted to say something witty . 
'Ahem ! 'It doesn't matter ! said the Princess . 
'Take him out ! and out he had to go . 
Now the other brother entered . 
'How hot it is ! he said . 
'Of course ! We are roasting young chickens to day ! remarked the Princess . 
'How do you um ! he said , and the reporters wrote down . 
'It doesn't matter ! said the Princess . 
'Take him out ! Now Blockhead Hans came in he rode his goat right into the hall . 
'I say ! How roasting hot it is here ! said he . 
'Of course ! I am roasting young chickens to day ! said the Princess . 
'Oh , rather ! said Blockhead Hans . 
'Here is a cooking implement with tin rings , and he drew out the old wooden shoe , and laid the crow in it . 
'That is quite a meal ! said the Princess 'but where shall we get the soup from ? 'I've got that in my pocket ! said Blockhead Hans . 
'I have so much that I can quite well throw some away ! and he poured some mud out of his pocket . 
'I like you ! said the Princess . 
And the reporters giggled , and each dropped a blot of ink on the floor . 
'Ah ! are those the great people ? said Blockhead Hans . 
'Then I will give the editor the best ! So saying , he turned his pockets inside out , and threw the mud right in his face . 
'That was neatly done ! said the Princess . 
A STORY ABOUT A DARNING NEEDLE There was once a Darning needle who thought herself so fine that she believed she was an embroidery needle . 
'Take great care to hold me tight ! said the Darning needle to the Fingers who were holding her . 
'Look , I am coming with my train ! said the Darning needle as she drew a long thread after her but there was no knot at the end of the thread . 
The Fingers were using the needle on the cook's shoe . 
The upper leather was unstitched and had to be sewn together . 
'This is common work ! said the Darning needle . 
'I shall never get through it . 
I am breaking ! I am breaking ! And in fact she did break . 
'Didn't I tell you so ! said the Darning needle . 
'Now I am a breast pin ! said the Darning needle . 
'I always knew I should be promoted . 
When one is something , one will become something ! And she laughed to herself you can never see when a Darning needle is laughing . 
Then she sat up as proudly as if she were in a State coach , and looked all round her . 
'May I be allowed to ask if you are gold ? she said to her neighbour , the Pin . 
And so saying the Darning needle raised herself up so proudly that she fell out of the dress , right into the sink which the cook was rinsing out . 
'Now I am off on my travels ! said the Darning needle . 
'I do hope I sha'n't get lost ! She did indeed get lost . 
All kinds of things swam over her shavings , bits of straw , and scraps of old newspapers . 
'Just look how they sail along ! said the Darning needle . 
There floats a bit of newspaper . 
What is written on it is long ago forgotten , and yet how proud it is ! I am sitting patient and quiet . 
But it was a bit of bottle glass , and because it sparkled the Darning needle spoke to it , and gave herself out as a breast pin . 
'Of noble birth ! said the Darning needle 'no indeed , but proud ! They were five brothers , all called ''Fingers . 
'' They held themselves proudly one against the other , although they were of different sizes . 
Dip into everything , the second finger , dipped into sweet things as well as sour things , pointed to the sun and the moon , and guided the pen when they wrote . 
Longman , the third , looked at the others over his shoulder . 
Goldband , the fourth , had a gold sash round his waist and little Playman did nothing at all , and was the more proud . 
There was too much ostentation , and so I came away . 
'And now we are sitting and shining here ! said the bit of bottle glass . 
At that moment more water came into the gutter it streamed over the edges and washed the bit of bottle glass away . 
'Ah ! now he has been promoted ! said the Darning needle . 
'I remain here I am too fine . 
But that is my pride , which is a sign of respectability ! And she sat there very proudly , thinking lofty thoughts . 
'I really believe I must have been born a sunbeam , I am so fine ! It seems to me as if the sunbeams were always looking under the water for me . 
It was rather dirty work , but it was a great delight to them . 
The sealing wax had gone , and she had become quite black but black makes one look very slim , and so she thought she was even finer than before . 
'Here comes an egg shell sailing along ! said the boys , and they stuck the Darning needle into the egg shell . 
'The walls white and I black what a pretty contrast it makes ! said the Darning needle . 
'It is a good thing to be steeled against sea sickness here one has indeed an advantage over man ! Now my qualms are over . 
The finer one is the more one can beat . 
'Crack ! said the egg shell as a wagon wheel went over it . 
'Oh ! how it presses ! said the Darning needle . 
'I shall indeed be sea sick now . 
I am breaking ! But she did not break , although the wagon wheel went over her she lay there at full length , and there she may lie . 
