Prepared by Anthony J. Adam email anthony adam tamu . 
edu Yankee Gypsies by John Greenleaf Whittier Here's to budgets , packs , and wallets Here's to all the wandering train . 
I CONFESS it , I am keenly sensitive to skyey influences . 
I profess no indifference to the movements of that capricious old gentleman known as the clerk of the weather . 
I cannot conceal my interest in the behavior of that patriarchal bird whose wooden similitude gyrates on the church spire . 
Winter proper is well enough . 
Let the thermometer go to zero if it will so much the better , if thereby the very winds are frozen and unable to flap their stiff wings . 
From the closing air in The Jolly Beggars , a cantata . 
A breath thou art Servile to all the skyey influences , That dost this habitation , where thou keep'st Hourly afflict . 
Shakespeare Measure for Measure , act III . 
In a note to Yashmak Kinglake explains that it is not a mere semi transparent veil , but thoroughly conceals all the features except the eyes it is withdrawn by being pulled down . 
Vincenz Priessnitz was the originator of the water cure . 
After experimenting upon himself and his neighbors he took up the profession of hydropathy and established baths at his native place , Grafenberg in Silesia , in . 
Samuel Thomson , a New Hampshire physician , advocated the use of the steam bath as a restorer of system when diseased . 
which contains a record of the persecutions he underwent . 
Hark ! a rap at my door . 
One gains nothing by attempting to shut out the sprites of the weather . 
They come in at the keyhole they peer through the dripping panes they insinuate themselves through the crevices of the casement , or plump down chimney astride of the raindrops . 
I rise and throw open the door . 
I speak to him but he returns no answer . 
Every man , the Mahometans tell us , has two attendant angels , the good one on his right shoulder , the bad on his left . 
Give , says Benevolence , as with some difficulty I fish up a small coin from the depths of my pocket . 
Not a cent , says selfish Prudence and I drop it from my fingers . 
Amidst this confusion of tongues I take another survey of my visitant . 
Ha ! a light dawns upon me . 
That shrewd , old face , with its sharp , winking eyes , is no stranger to me . 
Pietro Frugoni , I have seen thee before . 
In communication was opened by a road with the Pennsylvania settlements , but the early settlers were almost all from New England . 
Well , Stephen , what news from old Barrington ? Oh , well , I thought I knew ye , he answers , not the least disconcerted . 
How do you do ? and how's your folks ? All well , I hope . 
I took this 'ere paper , you see , to help a poor furriner , who could n't make himself understood any more than a wild goose . 
I though I'd just start him for'ard a little . 
It seemed a marcy to do it . 
Well and shiftily answered , thou ragged Proteus . 
One cannot be angry with such a fellow . 
But he evidently has no wish to enter into idle conversation . 
Intent upon his benevolent errand he is already clattering down stairs . 
Involuntarily I glance out of the window just in season to catch a single glimpse of him ere he is swallowed up in the mist . 
Many of them were well known they had their periodical revolutions and transits we would calculate them like eclipses or new moons . 
I remember some who were evidently the victims of monomania , haunted and hunted by some dark thought , possessed by a fixed idea . 
She never smiled the cold , stony look of her eye never changed a silent , impassive face , frozen rigid by some great wrong or sin . 
We used to look with awe upon the still woman , and think of the demoniac of Scripture who had a dumb spirit . 
Whom he met at Calais , as described in his Sentimental Journey . 
The cantata is The Jolly Beggars , from which the motto heading this sketch was taken . 
The cantata has for its theme the rivalry of a pigmy scraper with his fiddle and a strolling tinker for a beggar woman hence the maudlin affection . 
He was bearded like a he goat , and used to counterfeit lameness yet , when he supposed himself alone , would travel on lustily , as if walking for a wager . 
That man with the pack always inspired me with awe and reverence . 
As for the lady , he assured us she took on dreadfully about it . 
Did she die ? we inquired , anxiously . 
There was a cunning twinkle in the old rogue's eye as he responded , Well , no she did n't . 
It was upon the Isle of Lemnos that Vulcan was flung by Jupiter , according to the myth , for attempting to aid his mother Juno . 
No love sick youth could drown himself , no deserted maiden bewail the moon , no rogue mount the gallows , without fitting memorial in Plummer's verses . 
Earthquakes , fires , fevers , and shipwrecks he regarded as personal favors from Providence , furnishing the raw material of song and ballad . 
we listened with infinite satisfaction to his reading of his own verses , or to his ready improvisation upon some domestic incident or topic suggested by his auditors . 
When once fairly over the difficulties at the outset of a new subject his rhymes flowed freely , as if he had eaten ballads , and all men's ears grew to his tunes . 
His productions answered , as nearly as I can remember , to Shakespeare's description of a proper ballad , doleful matter merrily set down , or a very pleasant theme sung lamentably . 
He was scrupulously conscientious , devout , inclined to theological disquisitions , and withal mighty in Scripture . 
He was thoroughly independent flattered nobody , cared for nobody , trusted nobody . 
When invited to sit down at our dinner table he invariably took the precaution to place his basket of valuables between his legs for safe keeping . 
Never mind they basket , Jonathan , said my father we shan't steal thy verses . 
I 'm not sure of that , returned the suspicious guest . 
It is written , 'Trust ye not in any brother . 
He could never come better , says the clown in Shakespeare's The Winter's Tale , when Autolycus , the pedler , is announced he shall come in . 
I love a ballad but even too well , if it be doleful matter merrily set down , or a very pleasant thing indeed and sung lamentably . 
and was to the last a sturdy defender of the peculiar dogmas of his school . 
The last time we saw him he was holding a meeting in our district school house , with a vagabond pedler for deacon and travelling companion . 
They had been fou for weeks thegither . 
He took for his text the first seven verses of the concluding chapter of Ecclesiastes , furnishing in himself its fitting illustration . 
The evil days had come the keepers of the house trembled the windows of life were darkened . 
Nathaniel Emmons was a New England theologian of marked character and power , who for seventy years was connected with a church in that part of Wrentham , Mass . 
He exercised considerable influence over the religious thought of New England , and is still read by theologians . 
He died in , in his ninety sixth year . 
Johnny , in Burns's poetic tale of Tam O'Shanter , had been fou or full of drink with Tam for weeks together . 
To him I owe my first introduction to the songs of Burns . 
After eating his bread and cheese and drinking his mug of cider he gave us Bonny Doon , Highland Mary , and Auld Lang Syne . 
He had a rich , full voice , and entered heartily into the spirit of his lyrics . 
, but the skilful performance of the artist lacked the novel charm of the gaberlunzie's singing in the old farmhouse kitchen . 
Another wanderer made us acquainted with the humorous old ballad of Our gude man cam hame at e'en . 
He applied for supper and lodging , and the next morning was set at work splitting stones in the pasture . 
While thus engaged the village doctor came riding along the highway on his fine , spirited horse , and stopped to talk with my father . 
'How cam this horse here ? How can it be ? How cam this horse here Without the leave of me ? 'A horse ? quo she . 
'Ay , a horse , quo he . 
'Ye auld fool , ye blind fool , And blinder might ye be , 'T is naething but a milking cow My mamma sent to me . 
'A milch cow ? quo he . 
'Ay , a milch cow , quo she . 
'Weel , far hae I ridden , And muckle hae I seen But milking cows wi' saddles on Saw I never nane . 
From the first line of The Gaberlunzie Man , attributed to King James V. of Scotland , The pawky auld carle came o'er the lee . 
The original like Whittier's was a sly old fellow , as an English phrase would translate the Scottish . 
The Gaberlunzie Man is given in Percy's Reliques of Ancient Poetry and in Child's English and Scottish Ballads , viii . 
William R. Dempster , a Scottish vocalist who had recently sung in America , and whose music to Burns's song A man 's a man for a' that was very popular . 
The whole of this song may be found in Herd's Ancient and Modern Scottish Songs , ii . 
That very night the rascal decamped , taking with him the doctor's horse , and was never after heard of . 
Our farmhouse was situated in a lonely valley , half surrounded with woods , with no neighbors in sight . 
led me about from room to room . 
I found her by no means satisfied with her decision . 
What if a son of mine was in a strange land ? she inquired , self reproachfully . 
Greatly to her relief , I volunteered to go in pursuit of the wanderer , and , taking a cross path over the fields , soon overtook him . 
He had just been rejected at the house of our nearest neighbor , and was standing in a state of dubious perplexity in the street . 
one of those bandit visages which Salvator has painted . 
With some difficulty I gave him to understand my errand , when he overwhelmed me with thanks , and joyfully followed me back . 
Provinces into which the old Kingdom of Naples was divided . 
Salvator Rosa was a Neapolitan by birth , and was said to have been himself a bandit in his youth his landscapes often contain figures drawn from the wild life of the region . 
It was not often that , as in the above instance , my mother's prudence got the better of her charity . 
The regular old stragglers regarded her as an unfailing friend and the sight of her plain cap was to them an assurance of forthcoming creature comforts . 
They were not unconscious of their evil reputation and experience had taught them the necessity of concealing , under well contrived disguises , their true character . 
They came to us in all shapes and with all appearances save the true one , with most miserable stories of mishap and sickness and all the ills which flesh is heir to . 
It was particularly vexatious to discover , when too late , that our sympathies and charities had been expended upon such graceless vagabonds as the Barrington beggars . 
He sometimes brought with him a tame crow , a shrewd , knavish looking bird , who , when in the humor for it , could talk like Barnaby Rudge's raven . 
These people have for several generations lived distinct from the great mass of the community , like the gypsies of Europe , whom in many respects they closely resemble . 
They have the same settled aversion to labor and the same disposition to avail themselves of the fruits of the industry of others . 
They love a wild , out of door life , sing songs , tell fortunes , and have an instinctive hatred of missionaries and cold water . 
See in Miss Mitford's Our Village . 
The proper study of mankind is man and , according to my view , no phase of our common humanity is altogether unworthy of investigation . 
In the centre of this desolate region were some twenty or thirty small dwellings , grouped together as irregularly as a Hottentot kraal . 
The great idea of its founders seemed visible in its unappropriated freedom . 
That comfortable philosophy which modern transcendentalism has but dimly shadowed forth that poetic agrarianism , which gives all to each and each to all is the real life of this city of unwork . 
Thou art wealthier , all the world is thine . 
He was treacherously murdered in by the guard that was attending him on his return from Timbuctoo to the coast . 
His travels excited great interest in their day in England and America . 
From a poem , Why Thus Longing ? by Mrs. Harriet Winslow Sewall , preserved in Whittier's Songs of Three Centuries . 
But look ! the clouds are breaking . 
Fair weather cometh out of the north . 
In the beautiful present the past is no longer needed . 
