But the Dwarf answered No something human is dearer to me than the wealth of all the world . 
We were sitting round a mahogany table that reflected the bottle , the claret glasses , and our faces as we leaned on our elbows . 
There was a director of companies , an accountant , a lawyer , Marlow , and myself . 
We all began life in the merchant service . 
told the story , or rather the chronicle , of a voyage Yes , I have seen a little of the Eastern seas but what I remember best is my first voyage there . 
You fellows know there are those voyages that seem ordered for the illustration of life , that might stand for a symbol of existence . 
You fight , work , sweat , nearly kill yourself , sometimes do kill yourself , trying to accomplish some thing and you can't . 
Not from any fault of yours . 
It was altogether a memorable affair . 
It was my first voyage to the East , and my first voyage as second mate it was also my skipper's first command . 
You'll admit it was time . 
What induced him to accept me was a wonder . 
I had come out of a crack Australian clipper , where I had been third officer , and he seemed to have a prejudice against crack clippers as aristocratic and high toned . 
He said to me , 'You know , in this ship you will have to work . 
I said I had to work in every ship I had ever been in . 
'Ah , but this is different , and you gentlemen out of them big ships . 
but there ! I dare say you will do . 
It was twenty two years ago and I was just twenty . 
How time passes ! It was one of the happiest days of my life . 
Fancy ! Second mate for the first time a really responsible officer ! I wouldn't have thrown up my new billet for a fortune . 
The mate looked me over carefully . 
He was also an old chap , but of another stamp . 
He had a Roman nose , a snow white , long beard , and his name was Mahon , but he insisted that it should be pronounced Mann . 
He was well connected yet there was something wrong with his luck , and he had never got on . 
As to the captain , he had been for years in coasters , then in the Mediterranean , and last in the West Indian trade . 
He had never been round the Capes . 
He could just write a kind of sketchy hand , and didn't care for writing at all . 
Both were thorough good seamen of course , and between those two old chaps I felt like a small boy between two grandfathers . 
The ship also was old . 
Her name was the Judea . 
She had been laid up in Shadwell basin for ever so long . 
You can imagine her state . 
She was all rust , dust , grime soot aloft , dirt on deck . 
To me it was like coming out of a palace into a ruined cottage . 
She was about tons , had a primitive windlass , wooden latches to the doors , not a bit of brass about her , and a big square stern . 
I remember it took my fancy immensely . 
His name was Jermyn , and he dodged all day long about the galley drying his hand kerchief before the stove . 
He mistrusted my youth , my common sense , and my seamanship , and made a point of showing it in a hundred little ways . 
I dare say he was right . 
It seems to me I knew very little then , and I know not much more now but I cherish a hate for that Jermyn to this day . 
We were a week working up as far as Yarmouth Roads , and then we got into a gale the famous October gale of twenty two years ago . 
It was wind , lightning , sleet , snow , and a terrific sea . 
We were flying light , and you may imagine how bad it was when I tell you we had smashed bulwarks and a flooded deck . 
On the second night she shifted her ballast into the lee bow , and by that time we had been blown off somewhere on the Dogger Bank . 
At every tumble of the ship you could see vaguely in the dim light men falling down with a great flourish of shov els . 
, impressed by the weirdness of the scene , wept as if his heart would break . 
We could hear him blubbering somewhere in the shadows . 
On the third day the gale died out , and by and by a north country tug picked us up . 
came from Colchester to see the old man . 
The crew of runners had left , and there remained only the officers , one boy , and the steward , a mulatto who an swered to the name of Abraham . 
Mrs. Beard was an old woman , with a race all wrinkled and ruddy like a winter apple , and the figure of a young girl . 
She caught sight of me once , sewing on a button , and insisted on having my shirts to repair . 
This was something different from the captains' wives I had known on board crack clippers . 
When I brought her the shirts , she said 'And the socks ? They want mending , I am sure , and John's Captain Beard's things are all in order now . 
I would be glad of something to do . 
She overhauled my outfit for me , and meantime I read for the first time 'Sartor Resartus' and Burnaby's 'Ride to Khiva . 
I didn't understand much of the first then but I remember I preferred the soldier to the philosopher at the time a preference which life has only confirmed . 
One was a man , and the other was either more or less . 
However , they are both dead , and Mrs. Beard is dead , and youth , strength , genius , thoughts , achievements , simple hearts all die . 
They loaded us at last . 
Eight able seamen and two boys . 
We hauled off one evening to the buoys at the dock gates , ready to go out , and with a fair prospect of beginning the voyage next day . 
Mrs. Beard was to start for home by a late train . 
When the ship was fast we went to tea . 
The fore end of a steamer loomed up close . 
I shouted down the cabin , 'Come up , quick ! and then heard a startled voice saying afar in the dark , 'Stop her , sir . 
Another voice cried warningly , 'We are going right into that bark , sir . 
There was a moment of confusion , yelling , and running about . 
Then somebody was heard saying , 'All clear , sir . 
'Are you all right ? asked the gruff voice . 
I had jumped forward to see the damage , and hailed back , 'I think so . 
'Easy astern , said the gruff voice . 
'What steamer is that ? screamed Mahon . 
By that time she was no more to us than a bulky shadow maneuvering a little way off . 
They shouted at us some name a woman's name , Miranda or Melissa or some such thing . 
'This means another month in this beastly hole , said Mahon to me , as we peered with lamps about the splintered bulwarks and broken braces . 
'But where's the captain ? We had not heard or seen anything of him all that time . 
We went aft to look . 
A doleful voice arose hail ing somewhere in the middle of the dock , 'Judea ahoy ! . 
How the devil did he get there ? . 
'I am adrift in our boat without oars , he cried . 
They had been floating about the dock in that mizzly cold rain for nearly an hour . 
I was never so surprised in my life . 
Not bad for a sixty year old . 
Just imagine that old fellow saving heroically in his arms that old woman the woman of his life . 
He set her down on a thwart , and was ready to climb back on board when the painter came adrift somehow , and away they went together . 
Of course in the confusion we did not hear him shouting . 
She said cheerfully , 'I suppose it does not matter my losing the train now ? 'No , Jenny you go below and get warm , he growled . 
Then to us 'A sailor has no busi ness with a wife I say . 
There I was , out of the ship . 
Well , no harm done this time . 
Let's go and look at what that fool of a steamer smashed . 
It wasn't much , but it delayed us three weeks . 
She lowered the window to say , 'You are a good young man . 
If you see John Captain Beard without his muffler at night , just remind him from me to keep his throat well wrapped up . 
'Certainly , Mrs. Beard , I said . 
We went to sea next day . 
When we made that start for Bankok we had been already three months out of London . 
We had expected to be a fortnight or so at the outside . 
It's like a windfall , like a godsend , like an unexpected piece of luck . 
In two days it blew a gale . 
The Judea , hove to , wallowed on the Atlantic like an old candlebox . 
It blew day after day it blew with spite , without interval , without mercy , without rest . 
The world was nothing but an immensity of great foam ing waves rushing at us , under a sky low enough to touch with the hand and dirty like a smoked ceiling . 
In the stormy space surrounding us there was as much flying spray as air . 
There was no rest for her and no rest for us . 
One night Mahon spoke through the small window of my berth . 
He said excitedly 'You got the sounding rod in here , Marlow ? I can't get the pumps to suck . 
By God ! it's no child's play . 
I gave him the sounding rod and lay down again , trying to think of various things but I thought only of the pumps . 
When I came on deck they were still at it , and my watch relieved at the pumps . 
By the light of the lantern brought on deck to examine the sounding rod I caught a glimpse of their weary , serious faces . 
We pumped all the four hours . 
We pumped all night , all day , all the week , watch and watch . 
She was work ing herself loose , and leaked badly not enough to drown us at once , but enough to kill us with the work at the pumps . 
And while we pumped the ship was going from us piecemeal the bulwarks went , the stanchions were torn out , the ventilators smashed , the cabin door burst in . 
There was not a dry spot in the ship . 
She was being gutted bit by bit . 
The long boat changed , as if by magic , into matchwood where she stood in her gripes . 
I had lashed her myself , and was rather proud of my handiwork , which had withstood so long the malice of the sea . 
And there was no break in the weather . 
There was for us no sky , there were for us no stars , no sun , no universe nothing but angry clouds and an infuriated sea . 
We forgot the day of the week , the name of the month , what year it was , and whether we had ever been ashore . 
The sails blew away , she lay broadside on under a weather cloth , the ocean poured over her , and we did not care . 
We turned those handles , and had the eyes of idiots . 
We had forgotten how it felt to be dry . 
I would not have given up the experience for worlds . 
I had moments of exultation . 
I think of her with pleasure , with affection , with regret as you would think of someone dead you have loved . 
I shall never forget her . 
I made a grab at it and missed . 
It was so dark we could not see each other's faces within a foot you understand . 
After that thump the ship kept quiet for a while , and the thing , whatever it was , struck my leg again . 
This time I caught it and it was a sauce pan . 
At first , being stupid with fatigue and thinking of nothing but the pumps , I did not understand what I had in my hand . 
Suddenly it dawned upon me , and I shouted , 'Boys , the house on deck is gone . 
Leave this , and let's look for the cook . 
There was a deck house forward , which contained the galley , the cook's berth , and the quarters of the crew . 
As we had expected for days to see it swept away , the hands had been ordered to sleep in the cabin the only safe place in the ship . 
So we went to look for him . 
It was chancing death , since once out of our lashings we were as exposed as if on a raft . 
The house was shattered as if a shell had exploded inside . 
We groped in the ruins and came upon this , and there he was , sitting in his bunk , surrounded by foam and wreckage , jabbering cheerfully to himself . 
He was out of his mind completely and for ever mad , with this sudden shock coming upon the fag end of his endurance . 
We snatched him up , lugged him aft , and pitched him head first down the cabin companion . 
You understand there was no time to carry him down with infinite pre cautions and wait to see how he got on . 
Those below would pick him up at the bottom of the stairs all right . 
We were in a hurry to go back to the pumps . 
That busi ness could not wait . 
A bad leak is an inhuman thing . 
One would think that the sole purpose of that fiend ish gale had been to make a lunatic of that poor devil of a mulatto . 
It eased before morning , and next day the sky cleared , and as the sea went down the leak took up . 
When it came to bending a fresh set of sails the crew demanded to put back and really there was nothing else to do . 
Boats gone , decks swept clean , cabin gutted , men without a stitch but what they stood in , stores spoiled , ship strained . 
We put her head for home , and would you believe it ? The wind came east right in our teeth . 
It blew fresh , it blew continuously . 
We had to beat up every inch of the way , but she did not leak so badly , the water keeping comparatively smooth . 
Two hours' pumping in every four is no joke but it kept her afloat as far as Falmouth . 
The good people there live on casualties of the sea , and no doubt were glad to see us . 
A hungry crowd of shipwrights sharpened their chisels at the sight of that carcass of a ship . 
And , by Jove ! they had pretty pick ings off us before they were done . 
I fancy the owner was already in a tight place . 
Then it was decided to take part of the cargo out and calk her topsides . 
This was done , the repairs finished , cargo re shipped a new crew came on board , and we went out for Bankok . 
At the end of a week we were back again . 
Tyne to Bankok coals put back to Falmouth leaky and with crew refusing duty . 
There were more delays more tinkering . 
The owner came down for a day , and said she was as right as a little fiddle . 
Poor old Captain Beard looked like the ghost of a Geordie skipper through the worry and humiliation of it . 
Remember he was sixty , and it was his first command . 
Mahon said it was a foolish business , and would end badly . 
I loved the ship more than ever , and wanted awfully to get to Bankok . 
To Bankok ! Magic name , blessed name . 
Mesopotamia wasn't a patch n it . 
Remember I was twenty , and it was my first second mate's billet , and the East was waiting for me . 
We went out and anchored in the outer roads with a fresh crew the third . 
She leaked worse than ever . 
It was as if those confounded shipwrights had actually made a hole in her . 
This time we did not even go outside . 
The crew simply refused to man the windlass . 
They towed us back to the inner harbor , and we be came a fixture , a feature , an institution of the place . 
People pointed us out to visitors as 'That 'ere bark that's going to Bankok has been here six months put back three times . 
We were only three on board . 
The poor old skipper mooned in the cabin . 
Mahon un dertook the cooking , and unexpectedly developed all a Frenchman's genius for preparing nice little messes . 
I looked languidly after the rigging . 
We became citizens of Falmouth . 
Morally it was worse than pumping for life . 
I obtained three months' pay and a five days' leave , and made a rush for London . 
It took me a day to get there and pretty well another to come back but three months' pay went all the same . 
I don't know what I did with it . 
The boatman who pulled me off to the ship said 'Hallo ! I thought you had left the old thing . 
SHE will never get to Bankok . 
'That's all YOU know about it , I said scornfully but I didn't like that proph ecy at all . 
Suddenly a man , some kind of agent to somebody , appeared with full powers . 
He had grog blossoms all over his face , an indomitable energy , and was a jolly soul . 
We leaped into life again . 
A hulk came along side , took our cargo , and then we went into dry dock to get our copper stripped . 
The poor thing , strained beyond endurance by the gale , had , as if in disgust , spat out all the oakum of her lower seams . 
She was recalked , new coppered , and made as tight as a bottle . 
We went back to the hulk and re shipped our cargo . 
Then on a fine moonlight night , all the rats left the ship . 
We had been infested with them . 
I called Mahon to enjoy the spectacle . 
Rat after rat ap peared on our rail , took a last look over his shoulder , and leaped with a hollow thud into the empty hulk . 
We tried to count them , but soon lost the tale . 
Mahon said 'Well , well ! don't talk to me about the intelligence of rats . 
They ought to have left before , when we had that narrow squeak from foundering . 
There you have the proof how silly is the superstition about them . 
They leave a good ship for an old rotten hulk , where there is nothing to eat , too , the fools ! . 
The story of the ship was known , by this , all up the Channel from Land's End to the Forelands , and we could get no crew on the south coast . 
They sent us one all complete from Liverpool , and we left once more for Bankok . 
We had fair breezes , smooth water right into the tropics , and the old Judea lumbered along in the sun shine . 
When she went eight knots everything cracked aloft , and we tied our caps to our heads but mostly she strolled on at the rate of three miles an hour . 
What could you expect ? She was tired that old ship . 
I would just as soon have abused the old village church at home for not being a cathedral . 
And for me there was also my youth to make me pa tient . 
There was all the East before me , and all life , and the thought that I had been tried in that ship and had come out pretty well . 
The old bark lumbered on , heavy with her age and the burden of her cargo , while I lived the life of youth in ignorance and hope . 
Then we entered the Indian Ocean and steered north erly for Java Head . 
She crawled on , do or die , and people at home began to think of posting us as overdue . 
One Saturday evening , I being off duty , the men asked me to give them an extra bucket of water or so for washing clothes . 
The smell down below was as unexpected as it was frightful . 
One would have thought hundreds of par affin lamps had been flaring and smoking in that hole for days . 
I was glad to get out . 
The man with me coughed and said , 'Funny smell , sir . 
I answered negli gently , 'It's good for the health , they say , and walked aft . 
The first thing I did was to put my head down the square of the midship ventilator . 
As I lifted the lid a visible breath , something like a thin fog , a puff of faint haze , rose from the opening . 
The ascending air was hot , and had a heavy , sooty , paraffiny smell . 
I gave one sniff , and put down the lid gently . 
It was no use choking my self . 
The cargo was on fire . 
Next day she began to smoke in earnest . 
Then it had been wetted more than once . 
It rained all the time we were taking it back from the hulk , and now with this long passage it got heated , and there was another case of spontaneous combustion . 
The captain called us into the cabin . 
He had a chart spread on the table , and looked unhappy . 
He said , 'The coast of West Australia is near , but I mean to proceed to our destination . 
It is the hurricane month too but we will just keep her head for Bankok , and fight the fire . 
No more putting back anywhere , if we all get roasted . 
We will try first to stifle this 'ere damned combustion by want of air . 
We battened down everything , and still she smoked . 
It made its way into the cabin , into the forecastle it poisoned the sheltered places on the deck , it could be sniffed as high as the mainyard . 
It was clear that if the smoke came out the air came in . 
This combustion refused to be stifled . 
We resolved to try water , and took the hatches off . 
Enormous volumes of smoke , whitish , yellowish , thick , greasy , misty , choking , ascended as high as the trucks . 
All hands cleared out aft . 
Then the poisonous cloud blew away , and we went back to work in a smoke that was no thicker now than that of an ordinary factory chimney . 
We rigged the force pump , got the hose along , and by and by it burst . 
Well , it was as old as the ship a prehistoric hose , and past repair . 
Then we pumped with the feeble head pump , drew water with buckets , and in this way managed in time to pour lots of Indian Ocean into the main hatch . 
The bright stream flashed in sun shine , fell into a layer of white crawling smoke , and van ished on the black surface of coal . 
Steam ascended mingling with the smoke . 
We poured salt water as into a barrel without a bottom . 
And she crawled on , do or die , in the serene weather . 
The sky was a miracle of purity , a miracle of azure . 
All this time of course we saw no fire . 
The cargo smoldered at the bottom somewhere . 
Wouldn't it ? I remarked irrelevantly , 'Do you remember the rats ? We fought the fire and sailed the ship too as carefully as though nothing had been the matter . 
The steward cooked and attended on us . 
Of the other twelve men , eight worked while four rested . 
Everyone took his turn , captain included . 
There was equality , and if not exactly fraternity , then a deal of good feeling . 
Some times a man , as he dashed a bucketful of water down the hatchway , would yell out , 'Hurrah for Bankok ! and the rest laughed . 
But generally we were taciturn and seri ous and thirsty . 
Oh ! how thirsty ! And we had to be careful with the water . 
The ship smoked , the sun blazed . 
We even made an attempt to dig down to the fire . 
No good , of course . 
No man could remain more than a minute below . 
Mahon , who went first , fainted there , and the man who went to fetch him out did likewise . 
We lugged them out on deck . 
Then I leaped down to show how easily it could be done . 
They had learned wisdom by that time , and contented themselves by fishing for me with a chain hook tied to a broom handle , I believe . 
I did not offer to go and fetch up my shovel , which was left down below . 
Things began to look bad . 
We put the long boat into the water . 
The second boat was ready to swing out . 
We had also another , a fourteen foot thing , on davits aft , where it was quite safe . 
Then behold , the smoke suddenly decreased . 
We re doubled our efforts to flood the bottom of the ship . 
In two days there was no smoke at all . 
Everybody was on the broad grin . 
This was on a Friday . 
On Saturday no work , but sailing the ship of course was done . 
The men washed their clothes and their faces for the first time in a fortnight , and had a special dinner given them . 
They spoke of spontaneous combustion with contempt , and implied THEY were the boys to put out combustions . 
Some how we all felt as though we each had inherited a large fortune . 
But a beastly smell of burning hung about the ship . 
Captain Beard had hollow eyes and sunken cheeks . 
I had never noticed so much before how twisted and bowed he was . 
He and Mahon prowled soberly about hatches and ventilators , sniffing . 
It struck me suddenly poor Mahon was a very , very old chap . 
As to me , I was as pleased and proud as though I had helped to win a great naval battle . 
O ! Youth ! The night was fine . 
Next day it was my watch on deck from eight to twelve . 
At breakfast the captain observed , 'It's wonder ful how that smell hangs about the cabin . 
About ten , the mate being on the poop , I stepped down on the main deck for a moment . 
The carpenter's bench stood abaft the mainmast I leaned against it sucking at my pipe , and the carpenter , a young chap , came to talk to me . 
He remarked , 'I think we have done very well , haven't we ? and then I perceived with annoyance the fool was try ing to tilt the bench . 
I said curtly , 'Don't , Chips , and immediately became aware of a queer sensation , of an absurd delusion , I seemed somehow to be in the air . 
I heard all round me like a pent up breath released as if a thousand giants simultaneously had said Phoo ! and felt a dull concussion which made my ribs ache sud denly . 
No doubt about it I was in the air , and my body was describing a short parabola . 
The coal dust suspended in the air of the hold had glowed dull red at the moment of the explosion . 
In the twinkling of an eye , in an infinitesimal fraction of a second since the first tilt of the bench , I was sprawling full length on the cargo . 
I picked myself up and scram bled out . 
It was quick like a rebound . 
I thought , The masts will be toppling over directly and to get out of the way bolted on all fours towards the poop ladder . 
The first person I saw was Mahon , with eyes like saucers , his mouth open , and the long white hair standing straight on end round his head like a silver halo . 
He was just about to go down when the sight of the main deck stirring , heaving up , and changing into splinters before his eyes , petrified him on the top step . 
I stared at him in unbelief , and he stared at me with a queer kind of shocked curiosity . 
I had lost my cap , one of my slippers , and my shirt was torn to rags . 
Of all this I was not aware . 
I was amazed to see the ship still afloat , the poop deck whole and , most of all , to see anybody alive . 
Also the peace of the sky and the serenity of the sea were istinctly surprising . 
I suppose I expected to see them convulsed with horror . 
There was a voice hailing the ship from somewhere in the air , in the sky I couldn't tell . 
Presently I saw the captain and he was mad . 
He asked me eagerly , 'Where's the cabin table ? and to hear such a question was a frightful shock . 
I had just been blown up , you understand , and vibrated with that experience , I wasn't quite sure whether I was alive . 
It was like an absurd dream . 
Do you know what he wanted next ? Well , he wanted to trim the yards . 
Very placidly , and as if lost in thought , he insisted on having the foreyard squared . 
'I don't know if there's anybody alive , said Mahon , almost tearfully . 
'Surely , he said gently , 'there will be enough left to square the foreyard . 
The old chap , it seems , was in his own berth , wind ing up the chronometers , when the shock sent him spin ning . 
Immediately it occurred to him as he said after wards that the ship had struck something , and he ran out into the cabin . 
There , he saw , the cabin table had vanished somewhere . 
The deck being blown up , it had fallen down into the lazarette of course . 
Where we had our breakfast that morning he saw only a great hole in the floor . 
This appeared to him so awfully mysterious , and impressed him so immensely , that what he saw and heard after he got on deck were mere trifles in com parison . 
Bankok ! That's what he was after . 
I tell you this quiet , bowed , bandy legged , almost deformed little man was immense in the singleness of his idea and in his placid ignorance of our agitation . 
He motioned us forward with a com manding gesture , and went to take the wheel him self . 
Yes that was the first thing we did trim the yards of that wreck ! No one was killed , or even disabled , but everyone was more or less hurt . 
Others , of the watch below , awakened by being shot out from their collapsing bunks , shivered incessantly , and kept on groaning even as we went about our work . 
That crew of Liverpool hard cases had in them the right stuff . 
It's my experience they always have . 
It is the sea that gives it the vastness , the lone liness surrounding their dark stolid souls . 
Ah ! Well ! we stumbled , we crept , we fell , we barked our shins on the wreckage , we hauled . 
The masts stood , but we did not know how much they might be charred down below . 
It was nearly calm , but a long swell ran from the west and made her roll . 
They might go at any moment . 
We looked at them with apprehension . 
One could not fore see which way they would fall . 
Then we retreated aft and looked about us . 
The deck was a tangle of planks on edge , of planks on end , of splinters , of ruined woodwork . 
The masts rose from that chaos like big trees above a matted undergrowth . 
The interstices of that mass of wreckage were full of something whitish , sluggish , stirring of something that was like a greasy fog . 
The smoke of the invisible fire was coming up again , was trailing , like a poisonous thick mist in some valley choked with dead wood . 
Already lazy wisps were beginning to curl upwards amongst the mass of splinters . 
Here and there a piece of timber , stuck upright , resembled a post . 
Half of a fife rail had been shot through the foresail , and the sky made a patch of glorious blue in the ignobly soiled canvas . 
And still the air , the sky a ghost , something invisible was hailing the ship . 
Someone had the sense to look over , and there was the helmsman , who had impulsively jumped overboard , anxious to come back . 
He yelled and swam lustily like a merman , keeping up with the ship . 
We threw him a rope , and presently he stood amongst us streaming with water and very crest fallen . 
The captain had surren dered the wheel , and apart , elbow on rail and chin in hand , gazed at the sea wistfully . 
We asked ourselves , What next ? I thought , Now , this is something like . 
I wonder what will happen . 
O youth ! Suddenly Mahon sighted a steamer far astern . 
Cap tain Beard said , 'We may do something with her yet . 
We hoisted two flags , which said in the international language of the sea , 'On fire . 
The steamer grew bigger rapidly , and by and by spoke with two flags on her foremast , 'I am coming to your assistance . 
In half an hour she was abreast , to windward , within hail , and rolling slightly , with her engines stopped . 
We lost our composure , and yelled all together with excite ment , 'We've been blown up . 
One of the boats dropped in the water , and walked towards us upon the sea with her long oars . 
Four Calashes pulled a swinging stroke . 
This was my first sight of Malay seamen . 
I thought people who had been blown up deserved more attention . 
A little man , dry like a chip and agile like a monkey , clambered up . 
It was the mate of the steamer . 
He gave one look , and cried , 'O boys you had better quit . 
He talked apart with the captain for a time , seemed to argue with him . 
Then they went away together to the steamer . 
'We will do it yet , he said to Mahon , fiercely . 
He shook his fist at the sky . 
Nobody else said a word . 
At noon the steamer began to tow . 
We went aloft to furl the sails . 
We coughed on the yards , and were careful about the bunts . 
From aloft we could not see the ship for smoke , and they worked carefully , passing the gaskets with even turns . 
'Harbor furl aloft there ! cried Mahon from below . 
You understand this ? I don't think one of those chaps expected to get down in the usual way . 
When we did I heard them saying to each other , 'Well , I thought we would come down overboard , in a lump sticks and all blame me if I didn't . 
'That's what I was thinking to myself , would answer wearily another battered and bandaged scarecrow . 
And , mind , these were men without the drilled in habit of obedience . 
To an onlooker they would be a lot of profane scallywags without a redeeming point . 
It wasn't a sense of duty they all knew well enough how to shirk , and laze , and dodge when they had a mind to it and mostly they had . 
Was it the two pounds ten a month that sent them there ? They didn't think their pay half good enough . 
No it was something in them , something inborn and subtle and everlasting . 
I don't say posi tively that the crew of a French or German merchant man wouldn't have done it , but I doubt whether it would have been done in the same way . 
It was that night at ten that , for the first time since we had been fighting it , we saw the fire . 
The speed of the towing had fanned the smoldering destruction . 
A blue gleam appeared forward , shining below the wreck of the deck . 
It wavered in patches , it seemed to stir and creep like the light of a glowworm . 
I saw it first , and told Mahon . 
'Then the game's up , he said . 
'We had better stop this towing , or she will burst out suddenly fore and aft before we can clear out . 
We set up a yell rang bells to attract their attention they towed on . 
At last Mahon and I had to crawl forward and cut the rope with an ax . 
There was no time to cast off the lashings . 
Red tongues could be seen licking the wilderness of splinters under our feet as we made our way back to the poop . 
Of course they very soon found out in the steamer that the rope was gone . 
She gave a loud blast of her whistle , her lights were seen sweeping in a wide circle , she came up ranging close alongside , and stopped . 
We were all in a tight group on the poop looking at her . 
Every man had saved a little bundle or a bag . 
Captain Beard had been sitting on the gratings still and mute for hours , but now he rose slowly and advanced in front of us , to the mizzen shrouds . 
Captain Nash hailed 'Come along ! Look sharp . 
I have mail bags on board . 
I will take you and your boats to Singapore . 
'Thank you ! No ! said our skipper . 
'We must see the last of the ship . 
'I can't stand by any longer , shouted the other . 
'Ay ! ay ! We are all right . 
'Very well ! I'll report you in Singapore . 
Good by ! He waved his hand . 
Our men dropped their bundles quietly . 
The steamer moved ahead , and passing out of the circle of light , vanished at once from our sight , daz zled by the fire which burned fiercely . 
And then I knew that I would see the East first as commander of a small boat . 
I thought it fine and the fidelity to the old ship was fine . 
We should see the last of her . 
The old man warned us in his gentle and inflexible way that it was part of our duty to save for the under writers as much as we could of the ship's gear . 
Accord ing we went to work aft , while she blazed forward to give us plenty of light . 
We lugged out a lot of rubbish . 
There were various stores , bolts of canvas , coils of rope the poop looked like a marine bazaar , and the boats were lumbered to the gunwales . 
One would have thought the old man wanted to take as much as he could of his first command with him . 
He was very very quiet , but off his balance evidently . 
Would you believe it ? He wanted to take a length of old stream cable and a kedge anchor with him in the long boat . 
We said , 'Ay , ay , sir , deferentially , and on the quiet let the thing slip overboard . 
The heavy medicine chest went that way , two bags of green coffee , tins of paint fancy , paint ! a whole lot of things . 
Then I was ordered with two hands into the boats to make a stowage and get them ready against the time it would be proper for us to leave the ship . 
We put everything straight , stepped the long boat's mast for our skipper , who was in charge of her , and I was not sorry to sit down for a moment . 
My face felt raw , every limb ached as if broken , I was aware of all my ribs , and would have sworn to a twist in the back bone . 
The boats , fast astern , lay in a deep shadow , and all around I could see the circle of the sea lighted by the fire . 
A gigantic flame arose forward straight and clear . 
It flared there , with noises like the whir of wings , with rumbles as of thunder . 
There were cracks , detonations , and from the cone of flame the sparks flew upwards , as man is born to trouble , to leaky ships , and to ships that burn . 
We could not see those on board , nor could we imagine what caused the delay . 
At last I hailed 'On deck there , and someone looked over . 
'We're ready here , I said . 
The head disap peared , and very soon popped up again . 
'The captain says , All right , sir , and to keep the boats well clear of the ship . 
The cat heads had burned away , and the two red hot anchors had gone to the bottom , tearing out after them two hundred fathom of red hot chain . 
The ship trembled , the mass of flame swayed as if ready to collapse , and the fore top gallant mast fell . 
It darted down like an arrow of fire , shot under , and instantly leaping up within an oar's length of the boats , floated quietly , very black on the luminous sea . 
I hailed the deck again . 
For a long time I heard nothing but the whir and roar of the fire . 
There were also whistling sounds . 
I couldn't stand it any longer , and swarming up a rope , clambered aboard over the stern . 
It was as bright as day . 
Coming up like this , the sheet of fire facing me , was a terrifying sight , and the heat seemed hardly bearable at first . 
On a settee cushion dragged out of the cabin , Captain Beard , with his legs drawn up and one arm under his head , slept with the light playing on him . 
Do you know what the rest were busy about ? They were sitting on deck right aft , round an open case , eating bread and cheese and drinking bottled stout . 
On the background of flames twisting in fierce tongues above their heads they seemed at home like salamanders , and looked like a band of desperate pirates . 
The fire sparkled in the whites of their eyes , gleamed on patches of white skin seen through the torn shirts . 
'The last meal on board , he explained solemnly . 
'We had nothing to eat all day , and it was no use leaving all this . 
He flourished the bottle and indicated the sleeping skipper . 
'There will be no boats by and by if you fool about much longer , I said , indignantly . 
I walked up to the skipper and shook him by the shoulder . 
At last he opened his eyes , but did not move . 
'Time to leave her , sir , I said , quietly . 
'Youngest first , he said . 
And the ordinary seaman , wiping his mouth with the back of his hand , got up , clambered over the taffrail , and vanished . 
One , on the point of going over , stopped short to drain his bottle , and with a great swing of his arm flung it at the fire . 
'Take this ! he cried . 
The skipper lingered disconsolately , and we left him to commune alone for awhile with his first command . 
Then I went up again and brought him away at last . 
The ironwork on the poop was hot to the touch . 
Then the painter of the long boat was cut , and the three boats , tied together , drifted clear of the ship . 
It was just sixteen hours after the explosion when we aban doned her . 
Mahon had charge of the second boat , and I had the smallest the foot thing . 
I had two men with me , a bag of biscuits , a few tins of meat , and a breaker of water . 
I was ordered to keep close to the long boat , that in case of bad weather we might be taken into her . 
And do you know what I thought ? I thought I would part company as soon as I could . 
I wanted to have my first command all to myself . 
I wasn't going to sail in a squadron if there were a chance for independ ent cruising . 
I would make land by myself . 
I would beat the other boats . 
Youth ! All youth ! The silly , charming , beautiful youth . 
But we did not make a start at once . 
We must see the last of the ship . 
And so the boats drifted about that night , heaving and setting on the swell . 
The men dozed , waked , sighed , groaned . 
I looked at the burning ship . 
A high , clear flame , an immense and lonely flame , ascended from the ocean , and from its sum mit the black smoke poured continuously at the sky . 
She burned furiously , mournful and imposing like a funeral pile kindled in the night , surrounded by the sea , watched over by the stars . 
A magnificent death had come like a grace , like a gift , like a reward to that old ship at the end of her laborious days . 
The surrender of her weary ghost to the keeping of stars and sea was stirring like the sight of a glorious triumph . 
At daylight she was only a charred shell , float ing still under a cloud of smoke and bearing a glowing mass of coal within . 
Then the oars were got out , and the boats forming in a line moved round her remains as if in procession the long boat leading . 
As we pulled across her stern a slim dart of fire shot out viciously at us , and suddenly she went down , head first , in a great hiss of steam . 
We made our way north . 
A breeze sprang up , and about noon all the boats came together for the last time . 
She was certainly over masted , but I had the satisfaction of knowing that with the wind aft I could beat the other two . 
I had to wait for them . 
Then we all had a look at the captain's chart , and , after a sociable meal of hard bread and water , got our last instructions . 
These were simple steer north , and keep together as much as possible . 
Next day I sat steering my cockle shell my first command with nothing but water and sky around me . 
I did sight in the afternoon the upper sails of a ship far away , but said nothing , and my men did not notice her . 
You see I was afraid she might be homeward bound , and I had no mind to turn back from the portals of the East . 
I was steering for Java another blessed name like Bankok , you know . 
I need not tell you what it is to be knocking about in an open boat . 
I remember nights and days of calm when we pulled , we pulled , and the boat seemed to stand still , as if bewitched within the circle of the sea horizon . 
, and I remember sixteen hours on end with a mouth dry as a cinder and a steering oar over the stern to keep my first command head on to a breaking sea . 
I did not know how good a man I was till then . 
And this is how I see the East . 
I have the feel of the oar in my hand , the vision of a scorching blue sea in my eyes . 
And I see a bay , a wide bay , smooth as glass and polished like ice , shimmering in the dark . 
A red light burns far off upon the gloom of the land , and the night is soft and warm . 
That I can never forget . 
It was impalpable and enslaving , like a charm , like a whispered promise of mysterious delight . 
We had been pulling this finishing spell for eleven hours . 
Two pulled , and he whose turn it was to rest sat at the tiller . 
We had made out the red light in that bay and steered for it , guessing it must mark some small coasting port . 
We were blind with fatigue . 
My men dropped the oars and fell off the thwarts as if dead . 
I made fast to a pile . 
The scented obscurity of the shore was grouped into vast masses , a density of colossal clumps of vegetation , prob ably mute and fantastic shapes . 
And at their foot the semicircle of a beach gleamed faintly , like an illusion . 
There was not a light , not a stir , not a sound . 
The mys terious East faced me , perfumed like a flower , silent like death , dark like a grave . 
And I sat weary beyond expression , exulting like a conqueror , sleepless and entranced as if before a pro found , a fateful enigma . 
A splashing of oars , a measured dip reverberating on the level of water , intensified by the silence of the shore into loud claps , made me jump up . 
A boat , a European boat , was coming in . 
I invoked the name of the dead I hailed Judea ahoy ! A thin shout an swered . 
I had beaten the flagship by three hours , and I was glad to hear the old man's voice , tremu lous and tired . 
'Is it you , Marlow ? 'Mind the end of that jetty , sir , I cried . 
He approached cautiously , and brought up with the deep sea lead line which we had saved for the under writers . 
I eased my painter and fell alongside . 
He sat , a broken figure at the stern , wet with dew , his hands clasped in his lap . 
His men were asleep already . 
'I had a terrible time of it , he murmured . 
'Mahon is be hind not very far . 
We conversed in whispers , in low whispers , as if afraid to wake up the land . 
Guns , thun der , earthquakes would not have awakened the men just then . 
Looking around as we talked , I saw away at sea a bright light traveling in the night . 
'There's a steamer passing the bay , I said . 
She was not passing , she was entering , and she even came close and anchored . 
'I wish , said the old man , 'you would find out whether she is English . 
Perhaps they could give us a passage some where . 
There was a murmur of voices in her , metallic hollow clangs of the engine room , footsteps on the deck . 
Her ports shone , round like dilated eyes . 
Shapes moved about , and there was a shadowy man high up on the bridge . 
And then , before I could open my lips , the East spoke to me , but it was in a Western voice . 
The voice swore and cursed violently it riddled the solemn peace of the bay by a volley of abuse . 
It began by calling me Pig , and from that went crescendo into unmentionable adjectives in English . 
I could hardly see him , but began to think he would work himself into a fit . 
Suddenly he ceased , and I could hear him snorting and blowing like a porpoise . 
I said 'What steamer is this , pray ? 'Eh ? What's this ? And who are you ? 'Castaway crew of an English bark burnt at sea . 
We came here to night . 
I am the second mate . 
The captain is in the long boat , and wishes to know if you would give us a passage somewhere . 
'Oh , my goodness ! I say . 
This is the Celestial from Singapore on her return trip . 
I'll arrange with your captain in the morning , . 
did you hear me just now ? 'I should think the whole bay heard you . 
'I thought you were a shore boat . 
Now , look here this infernal lazy scoundrel of a caretaker has gone to sleep again curse him . 
The light is out , and I nearly ran foul of the end of this damned jetty . 
This is the third time he plays me this trick . 
Now , I ask you , can anybody stand this kind of thing ? It's enough to drive a man out of his mind . 
I'll get the Assistant Resident to give him the sack , by . 
It's out , isn't it ? I take you to witness the light's out . 
There should be a light , you know . 
A red light on the 'There was a light , I said , mildly . 
I'll kick him from end to end of his miserable wharf . 
You'll see if I don't . 
I will 'So I may tell my captain you'll take us ? I broke in . 
'Yes , I'll take you . 
Good night , he said , brusquely . 
I pulled back , made fast again to the jetty , and then went to sleep at last . 
I had faced the silence of the East . 
I had heard some of its languages . 
But when I opened my eyes again the silence was as complete as though it had never been broken . 
I was lying in a flood of light , and the sky had never looked so far , so high , before . 
I opened my eyes and lay without moving . 
And then I saw the men of the East they were looking at me . 
The whole length of the jetty was full of people . 
I saw brown , bronze , yellow faces , the black eyes , the glitter , the color of an Eastern crowd . 
And all these beings stared without a mur mur , without a sigh , without a movement . 
They stared down at the boats , at the sleeping men who at night had come to them from the sea . 
The fronds of palms stood still against the sky . 
This was the East of the ancient navigators , so old , so mysterious , resplendent and somber , living and unchanged , full of danger and prom ise . 
And these were the men . 
They slept thrown across the thwarts , curled on bottom boards , in the care less attitudes of death . 
The head of the old skipper , leaning back in the stern of the long boat , had fallen on his breast , and he looked as though he would never wake . 
The East looked at them without a sound . 
But for me all the East is contained in that vision of my youth . 
It is all in that moment when I opened my young eyes on it . 
I came upon it from a tussle with the sea and I was young and I saw it looking at me . 
And this is all that is left of it ! Only a moment a moment of strength , of romance , of glamour of youth ! . 
A flick of sunshine upon a strange shore , the time to re member , the time for a sigh , and good by ! Night Good by . 
Ah ! The good old time the good old time . 
Glamour and the sea ! The good , strong sea , the salt , bitter sea , that could whisper to you and roar at you and knock your breath out of you . 
