My dear Rose , I answered , laying down my egg spoon , why in the world should I do anything ? My position is a comfortable one . 
, I enjoy an enviable social position I am brother to Lord Burlesdon , and brother in law to that charming lady , his countess . 
Behold , it is enough ! You are nine and twenty , she observed , and you've done nothing but Knock about ? It is true . 
Our family doesn't need to do things . 
that , pretty and accomplished as she herself is , her family is hardly of the same standing as the Rassendylls . 
Besides her attractions , she possessed a large fortune , and my brother Robert was wise enough not to mind about her ancestry . 
Ancestry is , in fact , a matter concerning which the next observation of Rose's has some truth . 
Good families are generally worse than any others , she said . 
Upon this I stroked my hair I knew quite well what she meant . 
I'm so glad Robert's is black ! she cried . 
He glanced at his wife her cheek was slightly flushed he patted it caressingly . 
What's the matter , my dear ? he asked . 
She objects to my doing nothing and having red hair , said I , in an injured tone . 
Oh ! of course he can't help his hair , admitted Rose . 
It generally crops out once in a generation , said my brother . 
Rudolf has got them both . 
I wish they didn't crop out , said Rose , still flushed . 
I rather like them myself , said I , and , rising , I bowed to the portrait of Countess Amelia . 
My brother's wife uttered an exclamation of impatience . 
I wish you'd take that picture away , Robert , said she . 
My dear ! he cried . 
Good heavens ! I added . 
Then it might be forgotten , she continued . 
Hardly with Rudolf about , said Robert , shaking his head . 
Why should it be forgotten ? I asked . 
Rudolf ! exclaimed my brother's wife , blushing very prettily . 
I laughed , and went on with my egg . 
At least I had shelved the question of what I ought to do . 
When I read a story , I skip the explanations yet the moment I begin to write one , I find that I must have an explanation . 
For it is manifest that I must explain why my sister in law was vexed with my nose and hair , and why I ventured to call myself an Elphberg . 
He stayed some months in England , where he was most courteously received yet , in the end , he left rather under a cloud . 
with a nobleman , well known in the society of the day , not only for his own merits , but as the husband of a very beautiful wife . 
In that duel Prince Rudolf received a severe wound , and , recovering therefrom , was adroitly smuggled off by the Ruritanian ambassador , who had found him a pretty handful . 
Well , be that as it may , I had picked up a good deal of pleasure and a good deal of knowledge . 
I was , I believe , a strong , though hardly fine swordsman and a good shot . 
I could ride anything that had a back to sit on and my head was as cool a one as you could find , for all its flaming cover . 
speaks on a platform , and oftener still as if she were on one , is that he recognizes the duties of his position , and you see the opportunities of yours . 
To a man of spirit , my dear Rose , I answered , opportunities are duties . 
Nonsense ! said she , tossing her head and after a moment she went on Now , here's Sir Jacob Borrodaile offering you exactly what you might be equal to . 
A thousand thanks ! I murmured . 
He's to have an Embassy in six months , and Robert says he is sure that he'll take you as an attache . 
Do take it , Rudolf to please me . 
Moreover , I thought it possible that I could pass the time in the position suggested with some tolerable amusement . 
Madame , said I , for your sake I'll go , if it's no more than a beggarly Legation . 
When I do a thing , I don't do it by halves . 
, I cast about for some desirable mode of spending them . 
And it occurred to me suddenly that I would visit Ruritania . 
But the moment Ruritania had come into my head I was eaten up with a curiosity to see it . 
At once I made up my mind to be present , and began my preparations . 
Perhaps , I hinted darkly , there may be an outcome of the expedition . 
What do you mean ? she asked . 
Well , said I carelessly , there seems a gap that might be filled by an exhaustive work on Oh ! will you write a book ? she cried , clapping her hands . 
Burlesdon on Ancient Theories and Modern Facts and The Ultimate Outcome , by a Political Student , are both works of recognized eminence . 
I believe you are right , Bob , my boy , said I. Now promise you'll do it , said Rose earnestly . 
No , I won't promise but if I find enough material , I will . 
That's fair enough , said Robert . 
Oh , material doesn't matter ! she said , pouting . 
But this time she could get no more than a qualified promise out of me . 
To tell the truth , I would have wagered a handsome sum that the story of my expedition that summer would stain no paper and spoil not a single pen . 
Neither would it , I fear , please Lady Burlesdon , if I were to submit it to her critical eye a step which I have no intention of taking . 
CHAPTER Concerning the Colour of Men's Hair It was a maxim of my Uncle William's that no man should pass through Paris without spending four and twenty hours there . 
He had a very comfortable suite of rooms , and we found some pleasant fellows smoking and talking . 
It struck me , however , that Bertram himself was absent and in low spirits , and when everybody except ourselves had gone , I rallied him on his moping preoccupation . 
He fenced with me for a while , but at last , flinging himself on a sofa , he exclaimed Very well have it your own way . 
I am in love infernally in love ! Oh , you'll write the better poetry , said I , by way of consolation . 
He ruffled his hair with his hand and smoked furiously . 
George Featherly , standing with his back to the mantelpiece , smiled unkindly . 
If it's the old affair , said he , you may as well throw it up , Bert . 
I know that , snapped Bertram . 
Not that it would make any difference if she stayed , pursued the relentless George . 
She flies higher than the paper trade , my boy ! Hang her ! said Bertram . 
It would make it more interesting for me , I ventured to observe , if I knew who you were talking about . 
Antoinette Mauban , said George . 
De Mauban , growled Bertram . 
Oho ! said I , passing by the question of the de' . 
You don't mean to say , Bert ? Can't you let me alone ? Where's she going to ? I asked , for the lady was something of a celebrity . 
George jingled his money , smiled cruelly at poor Bertram , and answered pleasantly Nobody knows . 
By the way , Bert , I met a great man at her house the other night at least , about a month ago . 
Did you ever meet him the Duke of Strelsau ? Yes , I did , growled Bertram . 
An extremely accomplished man , I thought him . 
She was a widow , rich , handsome , and , according to repute , ambitious . 
His mother had been of good , but not exalted , birth . 
He's not in Paris now , is he ? I asked . 
Oh no ! He's gone back to be present at the King's coronation a ceremony which , I should say , he'll not enjoy much . 
But , Bert , old man , don't despair ! He won't marry the fair Antoinette at least , not unless another plan comes to nothing . 
The next day George Featherly went with me to the station , where I took a ticket for Dresden . 
Going to see the pictures ? asked George , with a grin . 
I was , therefore , about to return an evasive answer , when he saved my conscience by leaving me suddenly and darting across the platform . 
Following him with my eyes , I saw him lift his hat and accost a graceful , fashionably dressed woman who had just appeared from the booking office . 
She was , perhaps , a year or two over thirty , tall , dark , and of rather full figure . 
and wearing a soft travelling hat pulled down to my ears , I must be looking very far from my best . 
A moment later , George rejoined me . 
You've got a charming travelling companion , he said . 
That's poor Bert Bertrand's goddess , Antoinette de Mauban , and , like you , she's going to Dresden also , no doubt , to see the pictures . 
It's very queer , though , that she doesn't at present desire the honour of your acquaintance . 
I didn't ask to be introduced , I observed , a little annoyed . 
Well , I offered to bring you to her but she said , Another time . 
I can speak for her as confidently as for myself for when , after a night's rest in Dresden , I continued my journey , she got into the same train . 
, I bought the papers , and found in them news which affected my movements . 
The whole country seemed in a stir about it , and it was evident that Strelsau was thronged . 
Rooms were all let and hotels overflowing there would be very little chance of my obtaining a lodging , and I should certainly have to pay an exorbitant charge for it . 
I made up my mind to stop at Zenda , a small town fifty miles short of the capital , and about ten from the frontier . 
I smiled to think how surprised George Featherly would have been to know that she and I had been fellow travellers for so long . 
I was very kindly received at the hotel it was really no more than an inn kept by a fat old lady and her two daughters . 
They were good , quiet people , and seemed very little interested in the great doings at Strelsau . 
The old lady , indeed , did not hesitate to express regret that the duke was not on the throne , instead of his brother . 
We know Duke Michael , said she . 
He has always lived among us every Ruritanian knows Duke Michael . 
But the King is almost a stranger he has been so much abroad , not one in ten knows him even by sight . 
And now , chimed in one of the young women , they say he has shaved off his beard , so that no one at all knows him . 
Shaved his beard ! exclaimed her mother . 
Who says so ? Johann , the duke's keeper . 
He has seen the King . 
The King , sir , is now at the duke's hunting lodge in the forest here from here he goes to Strelsau to be crowned on Wednesday morning . 
I was interested to hear this , and made up my mind to walk next day in the direction of the lodge , on the chance of coming across the King . 
are all he loves , they say and suffer our duke to be crowned on Wednesday . 
That I wish , and I don't care who knows it . 
Hush , mother ! urged the daughters . 
Oh , there's many to think as I do ! cried the old woman stubbornly . 
I threw myself back in my deep armchair , and laughed at her zeal . 
Many a man has cursed their red hair before now , muttered the old lady and I remembered James , fifth Earl of Burlesdon . 
But never a woman ! cried the girl . 
Ay , and women , when it was too late , was the stern answer , reducing the girl to silence and blushes . 
How comes the King here ? I asked , to break an embarrassed silence . 
It is the duke's land here , you say . 
The duke invited him , sir , to rest here till Wednesday . 
The duke is at Strelsau , preparing the King's reception . 
Then they're friends ? None better , said the old lady . 
Upon my word , said I , I begin to be sorry for your duke . 
And then I thought also of Antoinette de Mauban and her journey to Strelsau . 
You'll not tell of me , Johann ? she said . 
See where your chatter leads , said the old lady . 
The man who had spoken came forward . 
We have company , Johann , said my hostess , and the fellow plucked off his cap . 
A moment later he saw me , and , to my amazement , he started back a step , as though he had seen something wonderful . 
What ails you , Johann ? asked the elder girl . 
This is a gentleman on his travels , come to see the coronation . 
The man had recovered himself , but he was staring at me with an intense , searching , almost fierce glance . 
It's not the colour we see most of here in Zenda . 
I crave your pardon , sir , stammered the fellow , with puzzled eyes . 
I expected to see no one . 
Give him a glass to drink my health in and I'll bid you good night , and thanks to you , ladies , for your courtesy and pleasant conversation . 
So speaking , I rose to my feet , and with a slight bow turned to the door . 
The young girl ran to light me on the way , and the man fell back to let me pass , his eyes still fixed on me . 
He said no more , but I felt his eyes following me till the door closed behind me . 
My saucy conductor , looking over her shoulder at me as she preceded me upstairs , said There's no pleasing Master Johann for one of your colour , sir . 
He prefers yours , maybe ? I suggested . 
I meant , sir , in a man , she answered , with a coquettish glance . 
What , asked I , taking hold of the other side of the candlestick , does colour matter in a man ? Nay , but I love yours it's the Elphberg red . 
Colour in a man , said I , is a matter of no more moment than that ! and I gave her something of no value . 
God send the kitchen door be shut ! said she . 
Amen ! said I , and left her . 
In fact , however , as I now know , colour is sometimes of considerable moment to a man . 
next morning would have disarmed me . 
He had gladly accepted , but now found that his duties would not permit of his absence . 
lodgings would satisfy me , I would take his place . 
He pledged his sister's acquiescence , and urged the inconvenience and crowding to which I should be subject in my journeys to and from Strelsau the next day . 
I accepted his offer without a moment's hesitation , and he went off to telegraph to his sister , while I packed up and prepared to take the next train . 
Doubtless the good lady would waste no anxiety on my account . 
Half an hour's leisurely walking brought me to the Castle . 
It had been a fortress in old days , and the ancient keep was still in good preservation and very imposing . 
, and nothing short of a regiment and a train of artillery could fetch him out . 
Soon I entered the forest , and walked on for an hour or more in its cool sombre shade . 
The great trees enlaced with one another over my head , and the sunshine stole through in patches as bright as diamonds , and hardly bigger . 
inhaled as much beauty as I could , I went off into the most delightful sleep , regardless of my train to Strelsau and of the fast waning afternoon . 
To remember a train in such a spot would have been rank sacrilege . 
someone exclaim , in rough strident tones . 
I opened my eyes , and found two men regarding me with much curiosity . 
Both wore shooting costumes and carried guns . 
One was rather short and very stoutly built , with a big bullet shaped head , a bristly grey moustache , and small pale blue eyes , a trifle bloodshot . 
The other was a slender young fellow , of middle height , dark in complexion , and bearing himself with grace and distinction . 
I set the one down as an old soldier the other for a gentleman accustomed to move in good society , but not unused to military life either . 
It turned out afterwards that my guess was a good one . 
The elder man approached me , beckoning the younger to follow . 
He did so , courteously raising his hat . 
I rose slowly to my feet . 
He's the height , too ! I heard the elder murmur , as he surveyed my six feet two inches of stature . 
The young man stepped forward with a pleasant smile . 
This , said he , is Colonel Sapt , and I am called Fritz von Tarlenheim we are both in the service of the King of Ruritania . 
I bowed and , baring my head , answered I am Rudolf Rassendyll . 
I am a traveller from England and once for a year or two I held a commission from her Majesty the Queen . 
Then we are all brethren of the sword , answered Tarlenheim , holding out his hand , which I took readily . 
Rassendyll , Rassendyll ! muttered Colonel Sapt then a gleam of intelligence flitted across his face . 
By Heaven ! he cried , you're of the Burlesdons ? My brother is now Lord Burlesdon , said I. Thy head betrayeth thee , he chuckled , pointing to my uncovered poll . 
Why , Fritz , you know the story ? The young man glanced apologetically at me . 
He felt a delicacy which my sister in law would have admired . 
To put him at his ease , I remarked with a smile Ah ! the story is known here as well as among us , it seems . 
If you stay here , the deuce a man in all Ruritania will doubt of it or a woman either . 
I began to feel uncomfortable . 
Had I realized what a very plainly written pedigree I carried about with me , I should have thought long before I visited Ruritania . 
However , I was in for it now . 
Then a young man jumped out from behind the trunk of a tree and stood beside us . 
As I looked at him , I uttered an astonished cry and he , seeing me , drew back in sudden wonder . 
For an instant we stood motionless , looking at one another . 
Then I bared my head again and bowed respectfully . 
The King towered over Sapt , and , as he listened , his eyes now and again sought mine . 
I looked at him long and carefully . 
The likeness was certainly astonishing , though I saw the points of difference also . 
which was to be gathered from my close shutting lips . 
But , for all that , and above all minor distinctions , the likeness rose striking , salient , wonderful . 
Sapt ceased speaking , and the King still frowned . 
, his eyes twinkled , and , behold ! he burst into the merriest fit of irrepressible laughter , which rang through the woods and proclaimed him a jovial soul . 
Well met , cousin ! he cried , stepping up to me , clapping me on the back , and laughing still . 
You must forgive me if I was taken aback . 
Where are you travelling to ? To Strelsau , sire to the coronation . 
The King looked at his friends he still smiled , though his expression hinted some uneasiness . 
But the humorous side of the matter caught him again . 
Fritz , Fritz ! he cried , a thousand crowns for a sight of brother Michael's face when he sees a pair of us ! and the merry laugh rang out again . 
Seriously , observed Fritz von Tarlenheim , I question Mr. Rassendyll's wisdom in visiting Strelsau just now . 
The King lit a cigarette . 
Well , Sapt ? said he , questioningly . 
He mustn't go , growled the old fellow . 
Enough , sire , said I. I'll leave Ruritania today . 
No , by thunder , you shan't and that's sans phrase , as Sapt likes it . 
For you shall dine with me tonight , happen what will afterwards . 
Come , man , you don't meet a new relation every day ! We dine sparingly tonight , said Fritz von Tarlenheim . 
Not we with our new cousin for a guest ! cried the King and , as Fritz shrugged his shoulders , he added Oh ! I'll remember our early start , Fritz . 
So will I tomorrow morning , said old Sapt , pulling at his pipe . 
O wise old Sapt ! cried the King . 
Come , Mr. Rassendyll by the way , what name did they give you ? Your Majesty's , I answered , bowing . 
Well , that shows they weren't ashamed of us , he laughed . 
We walked for more than half an hour , and the King smoked cigarettes and chattered incessantly . 
You have to visit your disreputable cousin on the sly , have you ? said he . 
Suddenly emerging from the wood , we came on a small and rude hunting lodge . 
It was a one storey building , a sort of bungalow , built entirely of wood . 
As we approached it , a little man in a plain livery came out to meet us . 
The only other person I saw about the place was a fat elderly woman , whom I afterwards discovered to be the mother of Johann , the duke's keeper . 
Well , is dinner ready , Josef ? asked the King . 
The little servant informed us that it was , and we soon sat down to a plentiful meal . 
The fare was plain enough the King ate heartily , Fritz von Tarlenheim delicately , old Sapt voraciously . 
I played a good knife and fork , as my custom is the King noticed my performance with approval . 
We're all good trenchermen , we Elphbergs , said he . 
Remember tomorrow ! said Fritz . 
Ay tomorrow ! said old Sapt . 
Now , be the meat what it might , the wine we drank was beyond all price or praise , and we did it justice . 
Fritz ventured once to stay the King's hand . 
What ? cried the King . 
Remember you start before I do , Master Fritz you must be more sparing by two hours than I. Fritz saw that I did not understand . 
Hang that same guard ! growled Sapt . 
Oh ! it's very civil of my brother to ask the honour for his regiment , said the King . 
Come , cousin , you need not start early . 
Another bottle , man ! I had another bottle or , rather , a part of one , for the larger half travelled quickly down his Majesty's throat . 
We all talked at once , and followed to the letter Sapt's exhortation to let the morrow take care of itself . 
At last the King set down his glass and leant back in his chair . 
I have drunk enough , said he . 
Far be it from me to contradict the King , said I. Indeed , his remark was most absolutely true so far as it went . 
While I yet spoke , Josef came and set before the King a marvellous old wicker covered flagon . 
It had lain so long in some darkened cellar that it seemed to blink in the candlelight . 
Well done , Black Michael ! said the King . 
Out with the cork , Josef . 
Hang him ! Did he think I'd flinch from his bottle ? The bottle was opened , and Josef filled the King's glass . 
, everything is yours to the half of Ruritania . 
But ask me not for a single drop of this divine bottle , which I will drink to the health of that that sly knave , my brother , Black Michael . 
And the King seized the bottle and turned it over his mouth , and drained it and flung it from him , and laid his head on his arms on the table . 
And we drank pleasant dreams to his Majesty and that is all I remember of the evening . 
CHAPTER The King Keeps His Appointment Whether I had slept a minute or a year I knew not . 
On the table by him sat Fritz von Tarlenheim , pale as a ghost and black as a crow under the eyes . 
I leapt to my feet in anger . 
Your joke goes too far , sir ! I cried . 
Tut , man , we've no time for quarrelling . 
Nothing else would rouse you . 
I'll thank you , Colonel Sapt I began again , hot in spirit , though I was uncommonly cold in body . 
Rassendyll , interrupted Fritz , getting down from the table and taking my arm , look here . 
The King lay full length on the floor . 
His face was red as his hair , and he breathed heavily . 
Sapt , the disrespectful old dog , kicked him sharply . 
He did not stir , nor was there any break in his breathing . 
I saw that his face and head were wet with water , as were mine . 
We've spent half an hour on him , said Fritz . 
He drank three times what either of you did , growled Sapt . 
I knelt down and felt his pulse . 
It was alarmingly languid and slow . 
We three looked at one another . 
Was it drugged that last bottle ? I asked in a whisper . 
I don't know , said Sapt . 
We must get a doctor . 
There's none within ten miles , and a thousand doctors wouldn't take him to Strelsau today . 
I know the look of it . 
He'll not move for six or seven hours yet . 
But the coronation ! I cried in horror . 
Fritz shrugged his shoulders , as I began to see was his habit on most occasions . 
We must send word that he's ill , he said . 
I suppose so , said I. Old Sapt , who seemed as fresh as a daisy , had lit his pipe and was puffing hard at it . 
If he's not crowned today , said he , I'll lay a crown he's never crowned . 
But heavens , why ? The whole nation's there to meet him half the army ay , and Black Michael at the head . 
Shall we send word that the King's drunk ? That he's ill , said I , in correction . 
Ill ! echoed Sapt , with a scornful laugh . 
They know his illnesses too well . 
He's been ill before ! Well , we must chance what they think , said Fritz helplessly . 
I'll carry the news and make the best of it . 
Tell me , said he . 
Do you think the King was drugged ? I do , said I. And who drugged him ? That damned hound , Black Michael , said Fritz between his teeth . 
Ay , said Sapt , that he might not come to be crowned . 
Rassendyll here doesn't know our pretty Michael . 
We could carry him there , said I. And a very pretty picture he makes , sneered Sapt . 
Fritz von Tarlenheim buried his face in his hands . 
The King breathed loudly and heavily . 
Sapt stirred him again with his foot . 
Fate sends you now to Strelsau . 
I staggered back , murmuring Good God ! Fritz looked up with an eager , bewildered gaze . 
It's a risk against a certainty , said Sapt . 
If you shave , I'll wager you'll not be known . 
Are you afraid ? Sir ! Come , lad , there , there but it's your life , you know , if you're known and mine and Fritz's here . 
But , if you don't go , I swear to you Black Michael will sit tonight on the throne , and the King lie in prison or his grave . 
The King would never forgive it , I stammered . 
Are we women ? Who cares for his forgiveness ? The clock ticked fifty times , and sixty and seventy times , as I stood in thought . 
Tonight , Sapt went on in a hasty whisper , we are to lodge in the Palace . 
The moment they leave us you and I will mount our horses Fritz must stay there and guard the King's room and ride here at a gallop . 
The King will be ready Josef will tell him and he must ride back with me to Strelsau , and you ride as if the devil were behind you to the frontier . 
I took it all in in a second , and nodded my head . 
There's a chance , said Fritz , with his first sign of hopefulness . 
If I escape detection , said I. If we're detected , said Sapt . 
I'll send Black Michael down below before I go myself , so help me heaven ! Sit in that chair , man . 
He darted from the room , calling Josef ! Josef ! In three minutes he was back , and Josef with him . 
The latter carried a jug of hot water , soap and razors . 
He was trembling as Sapt told him how the land lay , and bade him shave me . 
Suddenly Fritz smote on his thigh But the guard ! They'll know ! they'll know ! Pooh ! We shan't wait for the guard . 
We'll ride to Hofbau and catch a train there . 
When they come , the bird'll be flown . 
But the King ? The King will be in the wine cellar . 
I'm going to carry him there now . 
If they find him ? They won't . 
How should they ? Josef will put them off . 
But Sapt stamped his foot . 
We're not playing , he roared . 
My God ! don't I know the risk ? If they do find him , he's no worse off than if he isn't crowned today in Strelsau . 
So speaking , he flung the door open and , stooping , put forth a strength I did not dream he had , and lifted the King in his hands . 
And as he did so , the old woman , Johann the keeper's mother , stood in the doorway . 
For a moment she stood , then she turned on her heel , without a sign of surprise , and clattered down the passage . 
Has she heard ? cried Fritz . 
I'll shut her mouth ! said Sapt grimly , and he bore off the King in his arms . 
Josef will look after them both later on . 
Then I burst out laughing , and even old Sapt grimly smiled . 
I fancy , said he , that when Josef tells them the King is gone they'll think it is because we smelt a rat . 
For you may swear Black Michael doesn't expect to see him in Strelsau today . 
I put the King's helmet on my head . 
Old Sapt handed me the King's sword , looking at me long and carefully . 
Thank God , he shaved his beard ! he exclaimed . 
Why did he ? I asked . 
Because Princess Flavia said he grazed her cheek when he was graciously pleased to give her a cousinly kiss . 
Come though , we must ride . 
Is all safe here ? Nothing's safe anywhere , said Sapt , but we can make it no safer . 
Fritz now rejoined us in the uniform of a captain in the same regiment as that to which my dress belonged . 
In four minutes Sapt had arrayed himself in his uniform . 
Josef called that the horses were ready . 
We jumped on their backs and started at a rapid trot . 
What would the issue of it be ? The cool morning air cleared my head , and I was able to take in all Sapt said to me . 
By the way , he said , you're a Catholic , I suppose ? Not I , I answered . 
Lord , he's a heretic ! groaned Sapt , and forthwith he fell to a rudimentary lesson in the practices and observances of the Romish faith . 
Luckily , said he , you won't be expected to know much , for the King's notoriously lax and careless about such matters . 
But you must be as civil as butter to the Cardinal . 
We hope to win him over , because he and Michael have a standing quarrel about their precedence . 
We were by now at the station . 
Fritz had recovered nerve enough to explain to the astonished station master that the King had changed his plans . 
We got into a first class carriage , and Sapt , leaning back on the cushions , went on with his lesson . 
I looked at my watch the King's watch it was , of course . 
I wonder if they've gone to look for us , I said . 
I hope they won't find the King , said Fritz nervously , and this time it was Sapt who shrugged his shoulders . 
The train travelled well , and at half past nine , looking out of the window , I saw the towers and spires of a great city . 
Your capital , my liege , grinned old Sapt , with a wave of his hand , and , leaning forward , he laid his finger on my pulse . 
A little too quick , said he , in his grumbling tone . 
I'm not made of stone ! I exclaimed . 
You'll do , said he , with a nod . 
We must say Fritz here has caught the ague . 
Drain your flask , Fritz , for heaven's sake , boy ! Fritz did as he was bid . 
We're an hour early , said Sapt . 
We'll send word forward for your Majesty's arrival , for there'll be no one here to meet us yet . 
And meanwhile Meanwhile , said I , the King'll be hanged if he doesn't have some breakfast . 
Old Sapt chuckled , and held out his hand . 
You're an Elphberg , every inch of you , said he . 
Then he paused , and looking at us , said quietly , God send we may be alive tonight ! Amen ! said Fritz von Tarlenheim . 
Fritz and Sapt leapt out , uncovered , and held the door for me . 
I choked down a lump that rose in my throat , settled my helmet firmly on my head , and breathed a short prayer to God . 
Then I stepped on the platform of the station at Strelsau . 
King Rudolf the Fifth was in his good city of Strelsau ! And they shouted outside God save the King ! Old Sapt's mouth wrinkled into a smile . 
God save 'em both ! he whispered . 
Courage , lad ! and I felt his hand press my knee . 
CHAPTER The Adventures of an Understudy With Fritz von Tarlenheim and Colonel Sapt close behind me , I stepped out of the buffet on to the platform . 
The last thing I did was to feel if my revolver were handy and my sword loose in the scabbard . 
A gay group of officers and high dignitaries stood awaiting me , at their head a tall old man , covered with medals , and of military bearing . 
He wore the yellow and red ribbon of the Red Rose of Ruritania which , by the way , decorated my unworthy breast also . 
Marshal Strakencz , whispered Sapt , and I knew that I was in the presence of the most famous veteran of the Ruritanian army . 
Just behind the Marshal stood a short spare man , in flowing robes of black and crimson . 
The Chancellor of the Kingdom , whispered Sapt . 
The Marshal greeted me in a few loyal words , and proceeded to deliver an apology from the Duke of Strelsau . 
I expressed my concern , accepted the Marshal's excuses very suavely , and received the compliments of a large number of distinguished personages . 
No one betrayed the least suspicion , and I felt my nerve returning and the agitated beating of my heart subsiding . 
But Fritz was still pale , and his hand shook like a leaf as he extended it to the Marshal . 
Presently we formed procession and took our way to the door of the station . 
Here I mounted my horse , the Marshal holding my stirrup . 
The city of Strelsau is partly old and partly new . 
Spacious modern boulevards and residential quarters surround and embrace the narrow , tortuous , and picturesque streets of the original town . 
These social and local divisions corresponded , as I knew from Sapt's information , to another division more important to me . 
The New Town was for the King but to the Old Town Michael of Strelsau was a hope , a hero , and a darling . 
The scene was very brilliant as we passed along the Grand Boulevard and on to the great square where the Royal Palace stood . 
Here I was in the midst of my devoted adherents . 
Every house was hung with red and bedecked with flags and mottoes . 
The streets were lined with raised seats on each side , and I passed along , bowing this way and that , under a shower of cheers , blessings , and waving handkerchiefs . 
The balconies were full of gaily dressed ladies , who clapped their hands and curtsied and threw their brightest glances at me . 
A torrent of red roses fell on me one bloom lodged in my horse's mane , and I took it and stuck it in my coat . 
I had stolen some glances at his face , but he was too impassive to show me whether his sympathies were with me or not . 
The red rose for the Elphbergs , Marshal , said I gaily , and he nodded . 
I have written gaily , and a strange word it must seem . 
But the truth is , that I was drunk with excitement . 
And I , collecting myself , met her eyes full and square , while again I felt my revolver . 
We were leaving my quarter and entering Duke Michael's , and this action of the Marshal's showed me more clearly than words what the state of feeling in the town must be . 
But if Fate made me a King , the least I could do was to play the part handsomely . 
Why this change in our order , Marshal ? said I. The Marshal bit his white moustache . 
It is more prudent , sire , he murmured . 
Let those in front ride on , said I , till they are fifty yards ahead . 
But do you , Marshal , and Colonel Sapt and my friends , wait here till I have ridden fifty yards . 
And see that no one is nearer to me . 
I will have my people see that their King trusts them . 
Sapt laid his hand on my arm . 
Am I not understood ? said I and , biting his moustache again , he gave the orders . 
I saw old Sapt smiling into his beard , but he shook his head at me . 
If I had been killed in open day in the streets of Strelsau , Sapt's position would have been a difficult one . 
Perhaps I ought to say that I was dressed all in white , except my boots . 
I wore a silver helmet with gilt ornaments , and the broad ribbon of the Rose looked well across my chest . 
I should be paying a poor compliment to the King if I did not set modesty aside and admit that I made a very fine figure . 
It was more interesting riding thus alone , for I heard the comments of the crowd . 
He looks paler than his wont , said one . 
You'd look pale if you lived as he does , was the highly disrespectful retort . 
He's a bigger man than I thought , said another . 
So he had a good jaw under that beard after all , commented a third . 
The pictures of him aren't handsome enough , declared a pretty girl , taking great care that I should hear . 
No doubt it was mere flattery . 
I was quite glad that he had been spared the unpleasant sight . 
He was a man of quick temper , and perhaps he would not have taken it so placidly as I did . 
At last we were at the Cathedral . 
Everything was in a mist as I dismounted . 
I saw the Marshal and Sapt dimly , and dimly the throng of gorgeously robed priests who awaited me . 
And my eyes were still dim as I walked up the great nave , with the pealing of the organ in my ears . 
I saw nothing of the brilliant throng that filled it , I hardly distinguished the stately figure of the Cardinal as he rose from the archiepiscopal throne to greet me . 
And when he saw me his red cheeks went pale all in a moment , and his helmet fell with a clatter on the floor . 
Till that moment I believe that he had not realized that the King was in very truth come to Strelsau . 
Of what followed next I remember nothing . 
I knelt before the altar and the Cardinal anointed my head . 
I received the Holy Sacrament there before them all . 
The portrait of the King is very good . 
Then the lady with the pale face and the glorious hair , her train held by two pages , stepped from her place and came to where I stood . 
And a herald cried Her Royal Highness the Princess Flavia ! She curtsied low , and put her hand under mine and raised my hand and kissed it . 
And for an instant I thought what I had best do . 
I think we were both glad when that was over ! But neither in the face of the princess nor in that of any other did I see the least doubt or questioning . 
Yet , had I and the King stood side by side , she could have told us in an instant , or , at least , on a little consideration . 
But neither she nor anyone else dreamed or imagined that I could be other than the King . 
Thank heaven , the old man was as blind as a bat , and did not claim my acquaintance . 
Now I felt in a difficulty , because I had forgotten to ask Sapt the state of my affections , or how far matters had gone between the princess and myself . 
Frankly , had I been the King , the further they had gone the better should I have been pleased . 
For I am not a slow blooded man , and I had not kissed Princess Flavia's cheek for nothing . 
Do you know , Rudolf , said she , you look somehow different today ? The fact was not surprising , but the remark was disquieting . 
You look , she went on , more sober , more sedate you're almost careworn , and I declare you're thinner . 
Surely it's not possible that you've begun to take anything seriously ? The princess seemed to hold of the King much the same opinion that Lady Burlesdon held of me . 
I braced myself up to the conversation . 
Would that please you ? I asked softly , Oh , you know my views , said she , turning her eyes away . 
Whatever pleases you I try to do , I said and , as I saw her smile and blush , I thought that I was playing the King's hand very well for him . 
She smiled brightly , but in an instant grew grave again , and whispered Did you notice Michael ? Yes , said I , adding , he wasn't enjoying himself . 
Do be careful ! she went on . 
You don't indeed you don't keep enough watch on him . 
You know I know , said I , that he wants what I've got . 
Guns were firing and trumpets blowing . 
Behind my chair stood Sapt and at the end of the table , I saw Fritz von Tarlenheim drain to the bottom his glass of champagne rather sooner than he decently should . 
I wondered what the King of Ruritania was doing . 
CHAPTER The Secret of a Cellar We were in the King's dressing room Fritz von Tarlenheim , Sapt , and I. I flung myself exhausted into an armchair . 
He uttered no congratulations on the marvellous success of our wild risk , but his whole bearing was eloquent of satisfaction . 
The triumph , aided perhaps by good wine , had made a new man of Fritz . 
What a day for you to remember ! he cried . 
Gad , I'd like to be King for twelve hours myself ! But , Rassendyll , you mustn't throw your heart too much into the part . 
I don't wonder Black Michael looked blacker than ever you and the princess had so much to say to one another . 
How beautiful she is ! I exclaimed . 
Never mind the woman , growled Sapt . 
Are you ready to start ? Yes , said I , with a sigh . 
It was five o'clock , and at twelve I should be no more than Rudolf Rassendyll . 
I remarked on it in a joking tone . 
You'll be lucky , observed Sapt grimly , if you're not the late Rudolf Rassendyll . 
By Heaven ! I feel my head wobbling on my shoulders every minute you're in the city . 
Do you know , friend , that Michael has had news from Zenda ? He went into a room alone to read it and he came out looking like a man dazed . 
I'm ready , said I , this news making me none the more eager to linger . 
I must write us an order to leave the city . 
Michael's Governor , you know , and we must be prepared for hindrances . 
You must sign the order . 
My dear colonel , I've not been bred a forger ! Out of his pocket Sapt produced a piece of paper . 
There's the King's signature , he said , and here , he went on , after another search in his pocket , is some tracing paper . 
If you can't manage a Rudolf in ten minutes , why I can . 
Your education has been more comprehensive than mine , said I. You write it . 
And a very tolerable forgery did this versatile hero produce . 
Now , Fritz , said he , the King goes to bed . 
No one is to see him till nine o'clock tomorrow . 
You understand no one ? I understand , answered Fritz . 
Michael may come , and claim immediate audience . 
You'll answer that only princes of the blood are entitled to it . 
That'll annoy Michael , laughed Fritz . 
You quite understand ? asked Sapt again . 
If the door of this room is opened while we're away , you're not to be alive to tell us about it . 
I need no schooling , colonel , said Fritz , a trifle haughtily . 
Here , wrap yourself in this big cloak , Sapt continued to me , and put on this flat cap . 
My orderly rides with me to the hunting lodge tonight . 
There's an obstacle , I observed . 
The horse doesn't live that can carry me forty miles . 
Oh , yes , he does two of him one here one at the lodge . 
Now , are you ready ? I'm ready , said I. Fritz held out his hand . 
In case , said he and we shook hands heartily . 
Damn your sentiment ! growled Sapt . 
He went , not to the door , but to a panel in the wall . 
In the old King's time , said he , I knew this way well . 
I followed him , and we walked , as I should estimate , near two hundred yards along a narrow passage . 
Then we came to a stout oak door . 
We passed through , and found ourselves in a quiet street that ran along the back of the Palace gardens . 
A man was waiting for us with two horses . 
One was a magnificent bay , up to any weight the other a sturdy brown . 
Sapt signed to me to mount the bay . 
Without a word to the man , we mounted and rode away . 
The town was full of noise and merriment , but we took secluded ways . 
My cloak was wrapped over half my face the capacious flat cap hid every lock of my tell tale hair . 
By Sapt's directions , I crouched on my saddle , and rode with such a round back as I hope never to exhibit on a horse again . 
Down a long narrow lane we went , meeting some wanderers and some roisterers and , as we rode , we heard the Cathedral bells still clanging out their welcome to the King . 
It was half past six , and still light . 
At last we came to the city wall and to a gate . 
Have your weapon ready , whispered Sapt . 
We must stop his mouth , if he talks . 
I put my hand on my revolver . 
The stars fought for us ! A little girl of fourteen tripped out . 
Please , sir , father's gone to see the King . 
He'd better have stayed here , said Sapt to me , grinning . 
But he said I wasn't to open the gate , sir . 
Did he , my dear ? said Sapt , dismounting . 
Then give me the key . 
The key was in the child's hand . 
Sapt gave her a crown . 
Here's an order from the King . 
Show it to your father . 
Orderly , open the gate ! I leapt down . 
Between us we rolled back the great gate , led our horses out , and closed it again . 
I shall be sorry for the doorkeeper if Michael finds out that he wasn't there . 
Now then , lad , for a canter . 
We mustn't go too fast while we're near the town . 
It was a fine night , and presently the moon appeared . 
We talked little on the way , and chiefly about the progress we were making . 
I wonder what the duke's despatches told him , said I , once . 
Ay , I wonder ! responded Sapt . 
We stopped for a draught of wine and to bait our horses , losing half an hour thus . 
I dared not go into the inn , and stayed with the horses in the stable . 
Then we went ahead again , and had covered some five and twenty miles , when Sapt abruptly stopped . 
Away , far behind us , in the still of the evening it was just half past nine we heard the beat of horses' hoofs . 
The wind blowing strong behind us , carried the sound . 
Come on ! he cried , and spurred his horse into a gallop . 
When we next paused to listen , the hoof beats were not audible , and we relaxed our pace . 
Then we heard them again . 
Sapt jumped down and laid his ear to the ground . 
There are two , he said . 
They're only a mile behind . 
Thank God the road curves in and out , and the wind's our way . 
We seemed to be holding our own . 
Another half hour brought us to a divide of the road . 
To the right is our road , he said . 
To the left , to the Castle . 
But they'll be on us ! I cried . 
Get down ! he repeated brusquely and I obeyed . 
The wood was dense up to the very edge of the road . 
We led our horses into the covert , bound handkerchiefs over their eyes , and stood beside them . 
You want to see who they are ? I whispered . 
Ay , and where they're going , he answered . 
I saw that his revolver was in his hand . 
Nearer and nearer came the hoofs . 
The moon shone out now clear and full , so that the road was white with it . 
The ground was hard , and we had left no traces . 
Here they come ! whispered Sapt . 
It's the duke ! I thought so , he answered . 
They were up to us the duke reined up . 
I saw Sapt's finger curl lovingly towards the trigger . 
I laid my hand on his arm . 
He nodded reassuringly he was always ready to sacrifice inclination to duty . 
Which way ? asked Black Michael . 
To the Castle , your Highness , urged his companion . 
There we shall learn the truth . 
For an instant the duke hesitated . 
I thought I heard hoofs , said he . 
I think not , your Highness . 
Why shouldn't we go to the lodge ? I fear a trap . 
If all is well , why go to the lodge ? If not , it's a snare to trap us . 
Suddenly the duke's horse neighed . 
In an instant we folded our cloaks close round our horses' heads , and , holding them thus , covered the duke and his attendant with our revolvers . 
If they had found us , they had been dead men , or our prisoners . 
Michael waited a moment longer . 
Then he cried To Zenda , then ! and setting spurs to his horse , galloped on . 
Sapt raised his weapon after him , and there was such an expression of wistful regret on his face that I had much ado not to burst out laughing . 
For ten minutes we stayed where we were . 
You see , said Sapt , they've sent him news that all is well . 
What does that mean ? I asked . 
God knows , said Sapt , frowning heavily . 
But it's brought him from Strelsau in a rare puzzle . 
Then we mounted , and rode as fast as our weary horses could lay their feet to the ground . 
For those last eight miles we spoke no more . 
Our minds were full of apprehension . 
What did it mean ? Was all well with the King ? At last the lodge came in sight . 
Spurring our horses to a last gallop , we rode up to the gate . 
All was still and quiet . 
Not a soul came to meet us . 
Suddenly Sapt caught me by the arm . 
Look there ! he said , pointing to the ground . 
At my feet lay five or six silk handkerchiefs , torn and slashed and rent . 
I turned to him questioningly . 
They're what I tied the old woman up with , said he . 
Fasten the horses , and come along . 
The handle of the door turned without resistance . 
We passed into the room which had been the scene of last night's bout . 
It was still strewn with the remnants of our meal and with empty bottles . 
Come on , cried Sapt , whose marvellous composure had at last almost given way . 
We rushed down the passage towards the cellars . 
The door of the coal cellar stood wide open . 
They found the old woman , said I. You might have known that from the handkerchiefs , he said . 
Then we came opposite the door of the wine cellar . 
It looked in all respects as it had looked when we left it that morning . 
Come , it's all right , said I. A loud oath from Sapt rang out . 
His face turned pale , and he pointed again at the floor . 
From under the door a red stain had spread over the floor of the passage and dried there . 
Sapt sank against the opposite wall . 
Where's Josef ? muttered Sapt . 
Where's the King ? I responded . 
Sapt took out a flask and put it to his lips . 
I ran back to the dining room , and seized a heavy poker from the fireplace . 
In my terror and excitement I rained blows on the lock of the door , and I fired a cartridge into it . 
It gave way , and the door swung open . 
Give me a light , said I but Sapt still leant against the wall . 
He was , of course , more moved than I , for he loved his master . 
Afraid for himself he was not no man ever saw him that but to think what might lie in that dark cellar was enough to turn any man's face pale . 
I came to the door of the cellar . 
The red stain turning more and more to a dull brown , stretched inside . 
I walked two yards into the cellar , and held the candle high above my head . 
I walked to him and knelt down beside him , and commended to God the soul of a faithful man . 
For it was the body of Josef , the little servant , slain in guarding the King . 
I felt a hand on my shoulders , and , turning , saw Sapt , eyes glaring and terror struck , beside me . 
The King ? My God ! the King ? he whispered hoarsely . 
I threw the candle's gleam over every inch of the cellar . 
For ten minutes or more we sat silent in the dining room . 
Then old Sapt rubbed his knuckles into his eyes , gave one great gasp , and was himself again . 
They must have sent it before news of your arrival at Strelsau reached Zenda I suppose it came from Zenda . 
And he's carried it about all day ! I exclaimed . 
We must get back , I said , and rouse every soldier in Strelsau . 
We ought to be in pursuit of Michael before midday . 
Old Sapt pulled out his pipe and carefully lit it from the candle which guttered on the table . 
The King may be murdered while we sit here ! I urged . 
Sapt smoked on for a moment in silence . 
That cursed old woman ! he broke out . 
She must have attracted their attention somehow . 
They came up to kidnap the King , and as I say somehow they found him . 
If you hadn't gone to Strelsau , you and I and Fritz had been in heaven by now ! And the King ? Who knows where the King is now ? he asked . 
Come , let's be off ! said I but he sat still . 
And suddenly he burst into one of his grating chuckles By Jove , we've shaken up Black Michael ! Come , come ! I repeated impatiently . 
Ay , lad , we'll go back to Strelsau . 
The King shall be in his capital again tomorrow . 
The King ? The crowned King ! You're mad ! I cried . 
Mine will be Black Michael's version . 
He rose , came to me , and laid his hand on my shoulder . 
Lad , he said , if you play the man , you may save the King yet . 
Go back and keep his throne warm for him . 
But the duke knows the villains he has employed know Ay , but they can't speak ! roared Sapt in grim triumph . 
We've got 'em ! How can they denounce you without denouncing themselves ? This is not the King , because we kidnapped the King and murdered his servant . 
Can they say that ? The position flashed on me . 
Whether Michael knew me or not , he could not speak . 
I must be found out , I urged . 
Perhaps but every hour's something . 
And then I was a young man and I loved action , and I was offered such a hand in such a game as perhaps never man played yet . 
I shall be found out , I said . 
Come ! to Strelsau ! We shall be caught like rats in a trap if we stay here . 
Sapt , I cried , I'll try it ! Well played ! said he . 
I hope they've left us the horses . 
We must bury that poor fellow , said I. No time , said Sapt . 
Hang you ! he grinned . 
I make you a King , and Well , do it . 
Go and fetch him , while I look to the horses . 
He can't lie very deep , but I doubt if he'll care about that . 
Poor little Josef ! He was an honest bit of a man . 
He went out , and I went to the cellar . 
I raised poor Josef in my arms and bore him into the passage and thence towards the door of the house . 
Just inside I laid him down , remembering that I must find spades for our task . 
At this instant Sapt came up . 
The horses are all right there's the own brother to the one that brought you here . 
But you may save yourself that job . 
I'll not go before he's buried . 
Not I , Colonel Sapt not for all Ruritania . 
You fool ! said he . 
He drew me to the door . 
The moon was sinking , but about three hundred yards away , coming along the road from Zenda , I made out a party of men . 
They'll save you the trouble , said Sapt . 
The approaching party must , beyond doubt , be Duke Michael's men , come to remove the traces of their evil work . 
I hesitated no longer , but an irresistible desire seized me . 
I must have a slap at 'em , said I. Sapt wavered . 
He cautiously closed the open chink of the door . 
Then we retreated through the house and made our way to the back entrance . 
Here our horses were standing . 
A carriage drive swept all round the lodge . 
Revolver ready ? asked Sapt . 
No steel for me , said I. Gad , you're thirsty tonight , chuckled Sapt . 
We mounted , drawing our swords , and waited silently for a minute or two . 
Then we heard the tramp of men on the drive the other side of the house . 
They came to a stand , and one cried Now then , fetch him out ! Now ! whispered Sapt . 
Driving the spurs into our horses , we rushed at a gallop round the house , and in a moment we were among the ruffians . 
Sapt told me afterwards that he killed a man , and I believe him but I saw no more of him . 
With a cut , I split the head of a fellow on a brown horse , and he fell to the ground . 
Then I found myself opposite a big man , and I was half conscious of another to my right . 
It was too warm to stay , and with a simultaneous action I drove my spurs into my horse again and my sword full into the big man's breast . 
His bullet whizzed past my ear I could almost swear it touched it . 
I wrenched at the sword , but it would not come , and I dropped it and galloped after Sapt , whom I now saw about twenty yards ahead . 
I waved my hand in farewell , and dropped it a second later with a yell , for a bullet had grazed my finger and I felt the blood . 
Old Sapt turned round in the saddle . 
Someone fired again , but they had no rifles , and we were out of range . 
That's one to me and two to you , with decent luck , said he . 
Little Josef will have company . 
Ay , they'll be a partie carree , said I. My blood was up , and I rejoiced to have killed them . 
Well , a pleasant night's work to the rest ! said he . 
Then we rode on , asking of our good horses all that was in them . 
The excitement of the fight and of our great resolve died away , and we rode in gloomy silence . 
Day broke clear and cold . 
We found a farmer just up , and made him give us sustenance for ourselves and our horses . 
I , feigning a toothache , muffled my face closely . 
Then ahead again , till Strelsau lay before us . 
It was eight o'clock or nearing nine , and the gates were all open , as they always were save when the duke's caprice or intrigues shut them . 
We rode in by the same way as we had come out the evening before , all four of us the men and the horses wearied and jaded . 
The streets were even quieter than when we had gone everyone was sleeping off last night's revelry , and we met hardly a soul till we reached the little gate of the Palace . 
There Sapt's old groom was waiting for us . 
Is all well , sir ? he asked . 
All's well , said Sapt , and the man , coming to me , took my hand to kiss . 
The King's hurt ! he cried . 
It's nothing , said I , as I dismounted I caught my finger in the door . 
Remember silence ! said Sapt . 
Ah ! but , my good Freyler , I do not need to tell you that ! The old fellow shrugged his shoulders . 
All young men like to ride abroad now and again , why not the King ? said he and Sapt's laugh left his opinion of my motives undisturbed . 
You should always trust a man , observed Sapt , fitting the key in the lock , just as far as you must . 
We went in and reached the dressing room . 
Flinging open the door , we saw Fritz von Tarlenheim stretched , fully dressed , on the sofa . 
He seemed to have been sleeping , but our entry woke him . 
He leapt to his feet , gave one glance at me , and with a joyful cry , threw himself on his knees before me . 
Thank God , sire ! thank God , you're safe ! he cried , stretching his hand up to catch hold of mine . 
I confess that I was moved . 
This King , whatever his faults , made people love him . 
For a moment I could not bear to speak or break the poor fellow's illusion . 
But tough old Sapt had no such feeling . 
He slapped his hand on his thigh delightedly . 
Bravo , lad ! cried he . 
We shall do ! Fritz looked up in bewilderment . 
I held out my hand . 
You're wounded , sire ! he exclaimed . 
It's only a scratch , said I , but I paused . 
He rose to his feet with a bewildered air . 
Holding my hand , he looked me up and down , and down and up . 
Then suddenly he dropped my hand and reeled back . 
Where's the King ? Where's the King ? he cried . 
Hush , you fool ! hissed Sapt . 
Not so loud ! Here's the King ! A knock sounded on the door . 
Sapt seized me by the hand . 
Here , quick , to the bedroom ! Off with your cap and boots . 
I did as I was bid . 
My best thanks , sir , to my cousin , said I and tell her Royal Highness that I was never better in my life . 
, has slept without a break all night . 
The farce was over , and Fritz von Tarlenheim's pale face recalled us to reality though , in faith , the farce had to be reality for us now . 
Is the King dead ? he whispered . 
Then , at last , I was left alone . 
, had a brandy and soda brought to me , and observed to Sapt that I trusted that I might now have a rest . 
Fritz von Tarlenheim was standing by . 
By heaven ! he cried , we waste time . 
Aren't we going to throw Black Michael by the heels ? Gently , my son , gently , said Sapt , knitting his brows . 
It would be a pleasure , but it might cost us dear . 
For I can't expose Michael without exposing myself And the King , put in Sapt . 
And , hang me if Michael won't expose himself , if he tries to expose me ! It's very pretty , said old Sapt . 
He'll kill the King , said Fritz . 
Not he , said Sapt . 
Half of the Six are in Strelsau , said Fritz . 
Only half ? You're sure ? asked Sapt eagerly . 
Then the King's alive , for the other three are guarding him ! cried Sapt . 
Yes you're right ! exclaimed Fritz , his face brightening . 
If the King were dead and buried , they'd all be here with Michael . 
They are six gentlemen whom Michael maintains in his household they belong to him body and soul . 
There are three Ruritanians then there's a Frenchman , a Belgian , and one of your countrymen . 
They'd all cut a throat if Michael told them , said Fritz . 
Perhaps they'll cut mine , I suggested . 
Nothing more likely , agreed Sapt . 
Who are here , Fritz ? De Gautet , Bersonin , and Detchard . 
The foreigners ! It's as plain as a pikestaff . 
He's brought them , and left the Ruritanians with the King that's because he wants to commit the Ruritanians as deep as he can . 
They were none of them among our friends at the lodge , then ? I asked . 
I wish they had been , said Sapt wistfully . 
They had been , not six , but four , by now . 
I had already developed one attribute of royalty a feeling that I need not reveal all my mind or my secret designs even to my intimate friends . 
I had fully resolved on my course of action . 
I meant to make myself as popular as I could , and at the same time to show no disfavour to Michael . 
By these means I hoped to allay the hostility of his adherents , and make it appear , if an open conflict came about , that he was ungrateful and not oppressed . 
Yet an open conflict was not what I hoped for . 
, I rode to the residence of the Princess Flavia , and asked if she would receive me . 
This step created much interest , and was met with shouts of approval . 
The Chancellor , of course , did not understand the difficulties which lay in the way of following his loyal and excellent advice . 
I had to keep the princess devoted to me and yet indifferent to me I had to show affection for her and not feel it . 
I had to make love for another , and that to a girl who princess or no princess was the most beautiful I had ever seen . 
Well , I braced myself to the task , made no easier by the charming embarrassment with which I was received . 
How I succeeded in carrying out my programme will appear hereafter . 
You are gaining golden laurels , she said . 
You are like the prince in Shakespeare who was transformed by becoming king . 
But I'm forgetting you are King , sire . 
I ask you to speak nothing but what your heart tells you and to call me nothing but my name . 
She looked at me for a moment . 
Then I'm glad and proud , Rudolf , said she . 
Why , as I told you , your very face is changed . 
I acknowledged the compliment , but I disliked the topic so I said My brother is back , I hear . 
He made an excursion , didn't he ? Yes , he is here , she said , frowning a little . 
He can't stay long from Strelsau , it seems , I observed , smiling . 
Well , we are all glad to see him . 
The nearer he is , the better . 
The princess glanced at me with a gleam of amusement in her eyes . 
Some people say so for you . 
There are many insolent people , she said , with delightful haughtiness . 
Really , I wished that I had been the King . 
You don't care where cousin Michael Ah , cousin Michael ! I call him the Duke of Strelsau . 
You call him Michael when you meet him ? Yes by the orders of your father . 
And now by mine ? If those are your orders . 
Oh , decidedly ! We must all be pleasant to our dear Michael . 
You order me to receive his friends , too , I suppose ? The Six ? You call them that , too ? To be in the fashion , I do . 
But I order you to receive no one unless you like . 
Except yourself ? I pray for myself . 
As I spoke , there came a cheer from the street . 
The princess ran to the window . 
It is he ! she cried . 
It is the Duke of Strelsau ! I smiled , but said nothing . 
She returned to her seat . 
For a few moments we sat in silence . 
The noise outside subsided , but I heard the tread of feet in the ante room . 
I began to talk on general subjects . 
This went on for some minutes . 
I wondered what had become of Michael , but it did not seem to be for me to interfere . 
My dear cousin , I don't want to keep him Well , then , is he to come in ? Of course , if you wish it . 
She looked at me curiously . 
How funny you are , she said . 
Of course no one could be announced while I was with you . 
Here was a charming attribute of royalty ! An excellent etiquette ! I cried . 
But I had clean forgotten it and if I were alone with someone else , couldn't you be announced ? You know as well as I do . 
I could be , because I am of the Blood and she still looked puzzled . 
I never could remember all these silly rules , said I , rather feebly , as I inwardly cursed Fritz for not posting me up . 
But I'll repair my fault . 
I jumped up , flung open the door , and advanced into the ante room . 
Michael was sitting at a table , a heavy frown on his face . 
Everyone else was standing , save that impudent young dog Fritz , who was lounging easily in an armchair , and flirting with the Countess Helga . 
He leapt up as I entered , with a deferential alacrity that lent point to his former nonchalance . 
I had no difficulty in understanding that the duke might not like young Fritz . 
I held out my hand , Michael took it , and I embraced him . 
Then I drew him with me into the inner room . 
Brother , I said , if I had known you were here , you should not have waited a moment before I asked the princess to permit me to bring you to her . 
He thanked me , but coldly . 
The man had many qualities , but he could not hide his feelings . 
, Michael could not believe that . 
, and you know , brother , such have uncertain tempers . 
He smiled sourly , and his dark eyes rested on me for a moment . 
But is there no danger from the bite ? cried Flavia anxiously . 
None from this , said I. If I gave him a chance to bite deeper , it would be different , cousin . 
But surely he has been destroyed ? said she . 
We're waiting to see if his bite is harmful . 
And if it is ? asked Michael , with his sour smile . 
He'll be knocked on the head , brother , said I. You won't play with him any more ? urged Flavia . 
Doubtless he'll try , said I , smiling . 
, I began to compliment him on the magnificent condition of his regiment , and of their loyal greeting to me on the day of my coronation . 
Thence I passed to a rapturous description of the hunting lodge which he had lent me . 
But he rose suddenly to his feet . 
His temper was failing him , and , with an excuse , he said farewell . 
However , as he reached the door he stopped , saying Three friends of mine are very anxious to have the honour of being presented to you , sire . 
They are here in the ante chamber . 
I joined him directly , passing my arm through his . 
The look on his face was honey to me . 
We entered the ante chamber in fraternal fashion . 
Michael beckoned , and three men came forward . 
On the last ground as much as the first , said I , I am very pleased to see them . 
and last , the Englishman , Detchard , a narrow faced fellow , with close cut fair hair and a bronzed complexion . 
He was a finely made man , broad in the shoulder and slender in the hips . 
A good fighter , but a crooked customer , I put him down for . 
I spoke to him in English , with a slight foreign accent , and I swear the fellow smiled , though he hid the smile in an instant . 
So Mr. Detchard is in the secret , thought I. Having got rid of my dear brother and his friends , I returned to make my adieu to my cousin . 
She was standing at the door . 
I bade her farewell , taking her hand in mine . 
Rudolf , she said , very low , be careful , won't you ? Of what ? You know I can't say . 
But think what your life is to Well to ? To Ruritania . 
Was I right to play the part , or wrong to play the part ? I know not evil lay both ways , and I dared not tell her the truth . 
Only to Ruritania ? I asked softly . 
A sudden flush spread over her incomparable face . 
To your friends , too , she said . 
Friends ? And to your cousin , she whispered , and loving servant . 
I kissed her hand , and went out cursing myself . 
Outside I found Master Fritz , quite reckless of the footmen , playing at cat's cradle with the Countess Helga . 
Hang it ! said he , we can't always be plotting . 
I'm inclined to think he does , said I and Fritz , who had been by my side , dropped respectfully behind . 
I intend to do neither of these things . 
I need only say that the secret of my imposture defied detection . 
I had bad minutes it needed all the tact and graciousness whereof I was master to smooth over some apparent lapses of memory and unmindfulness of old acquaintances of which I was guilty . 
But I escaped , and I attribute my escape , as I have said before , most of all , to the very audacity of the enterprise . 
One day Sapt came into my room . 
He threw me a letter , saying That's for you a woman's hand , I think . 
But I've some news for you first . 
What's that ? The King's at the Castle of Zenda , said he . 
How do you know ? , Because the other half of Michael's Six are there . 
I had enquiries made , and they're all there Lauengram , Krafstein , and young Rupert Hentzau three rogues , too , on my honour , as fine as live in Ruritania . 
Well ? Well , Fritz wants you to march to the Castle with horse , foot , and artillery . 
And drag the moat ? 'I asked . 
That would be about it , grinned Sapt , and we shouldn't find the King's body then . 
You think it's certain he's there ? Very probable . 
Besides the fact of those three being there , the drawbridge is kept up , and no one goes in without an order from young Hentzau or Black Michael himself . 
We must tie Fritz up . 
I'll go to Zenda , said I. You're mad . 
You'll very likely stay there though , if you do . 
That may be , my friend , said I carelessly . 
His Majesty looks sulky , observed Sapt . 
How's the love affair ? Damn you , hold your tongue ! I said . 
He looked at me for a moment , then he lit his pipe . 
It was quite true that I was in a bad temper , and I went on perversely Wherever I go , I'm dodged by half a dozen fellows . 
I know you are I send 'em , he replied composedly . 
What for ? Well , said Sapt , puffing away , it wouldn't be exactly inconvenient for Black Michael if you disappeared . 
With you gone , the old game that we stopped would be played or he'd have a shot at it . 
I can take care of myself . 
At the end of the New Avenue there stands a house in large grounds . 
The house has a portico , with a statue of a nymph on it . 
A wall encloses the garden there is a gate in the wall at the back . 
If he mounts and enters , he will find someone who will tell him what touches most dearly his life and his throne . 
This is written by a faithful friend . 
If he neglects the invitation his life will be in danger . 
Let him show this to no one , or he will ruin a woman who loves him Black Michael does not pardon . 
No , observed Sapt , as I ended , but he can dictate a very pretty letter . 
I had arrived at the same conclusion , and was about to throw the letter away , when I saw there was more writing on the other side . 
Hallo ! there's some more . 
If you hesitate , the writer continued , consult Colonel Sapt Eh , exclaimed that gentleman , genuinely astonished . 
Does she take me for a greater fool than you ? I waved to him to be silent . 
Sapt laid down his pipe . 
Antoinette de Mauban , by heaven ! I cried . 
How do you know ? 'asked Sapt . 
I told him what I knew of the lady , and how I knew it . 
It's so far true that she's had a great row with Michael , said he , thoughtfully . 
If she would , she could be useful , I said . 
I believe , though , that Michael wrote that letter . 
So do I , but I mean to know for certain . 
I shall go , Sapt . 
No , I shall go , said he . 
You may go as far as the gate . 
I shall go to the summer house . 
I'm hanged if you shall ! I rose and leant my back against the mantelpiece . 
Sapt , I believe in that woman , and I shall go . 
I don't believe in any woman , said Sapt , and you shan't go . 
I either go to the summer house or back to England , said I. Sapt began to know exactly how far he could lead or drive , and when he must follow . 
We're playing against time , I added . 
Every day we leave the King where he is there is fresh risk . 
Every day I masquerade like this , there is fresh risk . 
Sapt , we must play high we must force the game . 
So be it , he said , with a sigh . 
To cut the story short , at half past eleven that night Sapt and I mounted our horses . 
Fritz was again left on guard , our destination not being revealed to him . 
It was a very dark night . 
I wore no sword , but I carried a revolver , a long knife , and a bull's eye lantern . 
We arrived outside the gate . 
Sapt held out his hand . 
I shall wait here , he said . 
If I hear a shot , I'll Stay where you are it's the King's only chance . 
You mustn't come to grief too . 
Good luck ! I pressed the little gate . 
It yielded , and I found myself in a wild sort of shrubbery . 
There was a grass grown path and , turning to the right as I had been bidden , I followed it cautiously . 
My lantern was closed , the revolver was in my hand . 
I heard not a sound . 
Presently a large dark object loomed out of the gloom ahead of me . 
It was the summer house . 
Reaching the steps , I mounted them and found myself confronted by a weak , rickety wooden door , which hung upon the latch . 
I pushed it open and walked in . 
A woman flew to me and seized my hand . 
Shut the door , she whispered . 
I obeyed and turned the light of my lantern on her . 
She was in evening dress , arrayed very sumptuously , and her dark striking beauty was marvellously displayed in the glare of the bull's eye . 
Don't talk , she said . 
Listen ! I know you , Mr. Rassendyll . 
I wrote that letter at the duke's orders . 
So I thought , said I. In twenty minutes three men will be here to kill you . 
Three the three ? Yes . 
You must be gone by then . 
If not , tonight you'll be killed Or they will . 
Listen , listen ! When you're killed , your body will be taken to a low quarter of the town . 
It will be found there . 
Michael will at once arrest all your friends Colonel Sapt and Captain von Tarlenheim first proclaim a state of siege in Strelsau , and send a messenger to Zenda . 
The other three will murder the King in the Castle , and the duke will proclaim either himself or the princess himself , if he is strong enough . 
Anyhow , he'll marry her , and become king in fact , and soon in name . 
Do you see ? It's a pretty plot . 
But why , madame , do you ? Say I'm a Christian or say I'm jealous . 
Three men follow you as a guard . 
Is it not so ? Well , three follow them Michael's three are never two hundred yards from you . 
Your life is not worth a moment if ever they find you alone . 
Stay , the gate will be guarded by now . 
Go down softly , go past the summer house , on for a hundred yards , and you'll find a ladder against the wall . 
Get over it , and fly for your life . 
And you ? I asked . 
I have my game to play too . 
If he finds out what I have done , we shall not meet again . 
If not , I may yet But never mind . 
But what will you tell him ? That you never came that you saw through the trick . 
I took her hand and kissed it . 
Madame , said I , you have served the King well tonight . 
Where is he in the Castle ? She sank her voice to a fearful whisper . 
Across the drawbridge you come to a heavy door behind that lies Hark ! What's that ? There were steps outside . 
They're coming ! They're too soon ! Heavens ! they're too soon ! and she turned pale as death . 
They seem to me , said I , to be in the nick of time . 
See , there's a chink in the door . 
Can you see them ? I put my eye to the chink . 
On the lowest step I saw three dim figures . 
Antoinette hastily laid her hand on mine . 
You may kill one , said she . 
But what then ? A voice came from outside a voice that spoke perfect English . 
Mr. Rassendyll , it said . 
We want to talk to you . 
Will you promise not to shoot till we've done ? Have I the pleasure of addressing Mr. Detchard ? I said . 
I've an offer for you . 
I still had my eye to the chink . 
The three had mounted two steps more three revolvers pointed full at the door . 
Will you let us in ? We pledge our honour to observe the truce . 
Don't trust them , whispered Antoinette . 
We can speak through the door , said I. But you might open it and fire , objected Detchard and though we should finish you , you might finish one of us . 
Will you give your honour not to fire while we talk ? Don't trust them , whispered Antoinette again . 
A sudden idea struck me . 
I considered it for a moment . 
I give my honour not to fire before you do , said I but I won't let you in . 
That's sensible , he said . 
The three mounted the last step , and stood just outside the door . 
I laid my ear to the chink . 
H'm ! Private communications , thought I. Then I said aloud Well , gentlemen , what's the offer ? A safe conduct to the frontier , and fifty thousand pounds English . 
No , no , whispered Antoinette in the lowest of whispers . 
That seems handsome , said I , reconnoitring through the chink . 
They were all close together , just outside the door now . 
I had probed the hearts of the ruffians , and I did not need Antoinette's warning . 
They meant to rush me as soon as I was engaged in talk . 
Give me a minute to consider , said I and I thought I heard a laugh outside . 
Stand up close to the wall , out of the line of fire from the door , I whispered . 
What are you going to do ? she asked in fright . 
You'll see , said I. I took up the little iron table . 
It was not very heavy for a man of my strength , and I held it by the legs . 
The top , protruding in front of me , made a complete screen for my head and body . 
I fastened my closed lantern to my belt and put my revolver in a handy pocket . 
Suddenly I saw the door move ever so slightly perhaps it was the wind , perhaps it was a hand trying it outside . 
I drew back as far as I could from the door , holding the table in the position that I have described . 
Then I called out Gentlemen , I accept your offer , relying on your honour . 
If you will open the door Open it yourself , said Detchard . 
It opens outwards , said I. Stand back a little , gentlemen , or I shall hit you when I open it . 
I went and fumbled with the latch . 
Then I stole back to my place on tiptoe . 
I can't open it ! I cried . 
Tut ! I'll open it ! cried Detchard . 
Nonsense , Bersonin , why not ? Are you afraid of one man ? I smiled to myself . 
An instant later the door was flung back . 
The gleam of a lantern showed me the three close together outside , their revolvers levelled . 
With a shout , I charged at my utmost pace across the summer house and through the doorway . 
Three shots rang out and battered into my shield . 
Antoinette de Mauban shrieked , but I rose to my feet , laughing aloud . 
De Gautet and Bersonin lay like men stunned . 
Detchard was under the table , but , as I rose , he pushed it from him and fired again . 
I heard steps behind me , and turning round I fired again for luck . 
Please God , said I , she told me the truth about the ladder ! for the wall was high and topped with iron spikes . 
Yes , there it was . 
I was up and over in a minute . 
Doubling back , I saw the horses then I heard a shot . 
He had heard us , and was battling and raging with the locked gate , hammering it and firing into the keyhole like a man possessed . 
He had quite forgotten that he was not to take part in the fight . 
Whereat I laughed again , and said , as I clapped him on the shoulder Come home to bed , old chap . 
I've got the finest tea table story that ever you heard ! He started and cried You're safe ! and wrung my hand . 
Moreover , you will observe that I had honourably kept my word , and not fired till they did . 
Since I had been in Strelsau , Sapt had been in the habit of reading the report and telling me any items of interest which it might contain . 
On the day after my adventure in the summer house , he came in as I was playing a hand of ecarte with Fritz von Tarlenheim . 
The report is rather full of interest this afternoon , he observed , sitting down . 
Do you find , I asked , any mention of a certain fracas ? He shook his head with a smile . 
, accompanied by several of his household . 
His destination is believed to be the Castle of Zenda , but the party travelled by road and not by train . 
MM De Gautet , Bersonin , and Detchard followed an hour later , the last named carrying his arm in a sling . 
The cause of his wound is not known , but it is suspected that he has fought a duel , probably incidental to a love affair . 
That is remotely true , I observed , very well pleased to find that I had left my mark on the fellow . 
Then we come to this , pursued Sapt Madame de Mauban , whose movements have been watched according to instructions , left by train at midday . 
She took a ticket for Dresden It's an old habit of hers , said I. The Dresden train stops at Zenda . 
An acute fellow , this . 
And finally listen to this The state of feeling in the city is not satisfactory . 
for taking no steps about his marriage . 
From enquiries among the entourage of the Princess Flavia , her Royal Highness is believed to be deeply offended by the remissness of his Majesty . 
The common people are coupling her name with that of the Duke of Strelsau , and the duke gains much popularity from the suggestion . 
I have caused the announcement that the King gives a ball tonight in honour of the princess to be widely diffused , and the effect is good . 
That is news to me , said I. Oh , the preparations are all made ! laughed Fritz . 
Sapt turned to me and said , in a sharp , decisive voice You must make love to her tonight , you know . 
Look here , I hate telling you this , but I must . 
The Countess Helga told me that the princess had become most attached to the King . 
Since the coronation , her feelings have undergone a marked development . 
It's quite true that she is deeply wounded by the King's apparent neglect . 
Here's a kettle of fish ! I groaned . 
Tut , tut ! said Sapt . 
I suppose you've made pretty speeches to a girl before now ? That's all she wants . 
Fritz , himself a lover , understood better my distress . 
He laid his hand on my shoulder , but said nothing . 
I think , though , pursued that cold blooded old Sapt , that you'd better make your offer tonight . 
Good heavens ! Or , any rate , go near it and I shall send a semi official to the papers . 
I'll do nothing of the sort no more will you ! said I. I utterly refuse to take part in making a fool of the princess . 
Sapt looked at me with his small keen eyes . 
A slow cunning smile passed over his face . 
All right , lad , all right , said he . 
We mustn't press you too hard . 
Soothe her down a bit , if you can , you know . 
Now for Michael ! Oh , damn Michael ! said I. He'll do tomorrow . 
Here , Fritz , come for a stroll in the garden . 
His rough manner covered a wonderful tact and as I came to recognize more and more , a remarkable knowledge of human nature . 
He must have seen the unhappiness he might bring on the princess but that went for nothing with him . 
Can I say , confidently , that he was wrong ? If the King were restored , the princess must turn to him , either knowing or not knowing the change . 
And if the King were not restored to us ? It was a subject that we had never yet spoken of . 
But I had an idea that , in such a case , Sapt meant to seat me on the throne of Ruritania for the term of my life . 
He would have set Satan himself there sooner than that pupil of his , Black Michael . 
The ball was a sumptuous affair . 
I opened it by dancing a quadrille with Flavia then I waltzed with her . 
Curious eyes and eager whispers attended us . 
In a tumult of applause I sat down I saw Sapt smiling over his wine , and Fritz frowning . 
The rest of the meal passed in silence neither Flavia nor I could speak . 
Fritz touched me on the shoulder , and I rose , gave her my arm , and walked down the hall into a little room , where coffee was served to us . 
The gentlemen and ladies in attendance withdrew , and we were alone . 
The little room had French windows opening on the gardens . 
The night was fine , cool , and fragrant . 
Flavia sat down , and I stood opposite her . 
I was struggling with myself if she had not looked at me , I believe that even then I should have won my fight . 
Ah , if you had seen her ! I forgot the King in Zenda . 
I forgot the King in Strelsau . 
She was a princess and I an impostor . 
Do you think I remembered that ? I threw myself on my knee and seized her hands in mine . 
Why should I ? The soft sounds of the night set my wooing to a wordless melody , as I pressed my kisses on her lips . 
I I never did before . 
It was I Rudolf Rassendyll who had won her ! I caught her round the waist . 
You didn't love me before ? I asked . 
She looked up into my face , smiling , as she whispered It must have been your Crown . 
I felt it first on the Coronation Day . 
Never before ? I asked eagerly . 
You speak as if you would be pleased to hear me say Yes to that , she said . 
Would Yes be true ? Yes , I just heard her breathe , and she went on in an instant Be careful , Rudolf be careful , dear . 
He will be mad now . 
What , Michael ? If Michael were the worst What worse is there ? There was yet a chance for me . 
Controlling myself with a mighty effort , I took my hands off her and stood a yard or two away . 
I remember now the note of the wind in the elm trees outside . 
If I were not the King , I began , if I were only a private gentleman Before I could finish , her hand was in mine . 
If you were a convict in the prison of Strelsau , you would be my King , she said . 
I don't deserve it I don't deserve to be doubted . 
Ah , Rudolf ! does a woman who marries without love look on the man as I look on you ? And she hid her face from me . 
A little cry burst from Flavia , as she sprang back from me . 
My half finished sentence died on my lips . 
Sapt stood there , bowing low , but with a stern frown on his face . 
A thousand pardons , sire , said he , but his Eminence the Cardinal has waited this quarter of an hour to offer his respectful adieu to your Majesty . 
I met his eye full and square and I read in it an angry warning . 
How long he had been a listener I knew not , but he had come in upon us in the nick of time . 
She said nothing , but no man could have missed her meaning , who had ever seen a woman in the exultation of love . 
Forced to receive adieus , I was separated from Flavia everyone , when they left me , went to her . 
Sapt was out and in of the throng , and where he had been , glances , smiles , and whispers were rife . 
I doubted not that , true to his relentless purpose , he was spreading the news that he had learnt . 
To uphold the Crown and beat Black Michael that was his one resolve . 
Flavia , myself ay , and the real King in Zenda , were pieces in his game and pawns have no business with passions . 
What could I do ? Had I spoken then , they would have refused to believe that I was not the King they might have believed that the King had run mad . 
I faced all Strelsau that night as the King and the accepted suitor of the Princess Flavia . 
I sat like a man dazed , staring into the fire he puffed at his pipe Fritz was gone to bed , having almost refused to speak to me . 
On the table by me lay a rose it had been in Flavia's dress , and , as we parted , she had kissed it and given it to me . 
Sapt advanced his hand towards the rose , but , with a quick movement , I shut mine down upon it . 
That's mine , I said , not yours nor the King's either . 
We struck a good blow for the King tonight , said he . 
I turned on him fiercely . 
What's to prevent me striking a blow for myself ? I said . 
I know what's in your mind , he said . 
Yes , lad but you're bound in honour . 
Have you left me any honour ? Oh , come , to play a little trick on a girl You can spare me that . 
We must act , and quickly ! You saw tonight you heard tonight I did , said he . 
Your cursed acuteness told you what I should do . 
Well , leave me here a week and there's another problem for you . 
Do you find the answer ? Yes , I find it , he answered , frowning heavily . 
But if you did that , you'd have to fight me first and kill me . 
It's gospel truth , he said thanks to my advice you could . 
I could marry the princess , and send Michael and his brother together to I'm not denying it , lad , said he . 
The old fellow stood and looked at me for full a minute . 
And the princess ? he said . 
I bowed my head to meet my hands , and crushed the rose between my fingers and my lips . 
I felt his hand on my shoulder , and his voice sounded husky as he whispered low in my ear Before God , you're the finest Elphberg of them all . 
But I have eaten of the King's bread , and I am the King's servant . 
Come , we will go to Zenda ! And I looked up and caught him by the hand . 
And the eyes of both of us were wet . 
CHAPTER Hunting a Very Big Boar The terrible temptation which was assailing me will now be understood . 
I could so force Michael's hand that he must kill the King . 
Yet , unless he sets up as a saint , he need not hate himself for them . 
It was a fine bright morning when I walked , unattended , to the princess's house , carrying a nosegay in my hand . 
I found Fritz's inamorata , the Countess Helga , gathering blooms in the garden for her mistress's wear , and prevailed on her to take mine in their place . 
And that , she said , with a mischievous smile , your Majesty has made of no moment . 
Madame ! cried the countess merrily , and Flavia herself looked out . 
I bared my head and bowed . 
She wore a white gown , and her hair was loosely gathered in a knot . 
She kissed her hand to me , crying Bring the King up , Helga I'll give him some coffee . 
The countess , with a gay glance , led the way , and took me into Flavia's morning room . 
And , left alone , we greeted one another as lovers are wont . 
Then the princess laid two letters before me . 
I threw the letter down in disgust , and Flavia laughed at me . 
Then , growing grave again , she pointed to the other sheet . 
I don't know who that comes from , she said . 
I knew in a moment . 
There was no signature at all this time , but the handwriting was the same as that which had told me of the snare in the summer house it was Antoinette de Mauban's . 
I have no cause to love you , it ran , but God forbid that you should fall into the power of the duke . 
Accept no invitations of his . 
Go nowhere without a large guard a regiment is not too much to make you safe . 
Show this , if you can , to him who reigns in Strelsau . 
Why doesn't it say the King ? asked Flavia , leaning over my shoulder , so that the ripple of her hair played on my cheek . 
Is it a hoax ? As you value life , and more than life , my queen , I said , obey it to the very letter . 
A regiment shall camp round your house today . 
See that you do not go out unless well guarded . 
An order , sire ? she asked , a little rebellious . 
Yes , an order , madame if you love me . 
Ah ! she cried and I could not but kiss her . 
You know who sent it ? she asked . 
I guess , said I. It is from a good friend and I fear , an unhappy woman . 
You must be ill , Flavia , and unable to go to Zenda . 
Make your excuses as cold and formal as you like . 
So you feel strong enough to anger Michael ? she said , with a proud smile . 
I had seen something of the old general , and I liked and trusted him . 
Sapt was less enthusiastic , but I had learnt by now that Sapt was best pleased when he could do everything , and jealousy played some part in his views . 
The Marshal received me with most loyal kindness . 
To some extent , I took him into my confidence . 
You may be right , sire , said he , shaking his grey head sadly . 
I have known better men than the duke do worse things than that for love . 
I could quite appreciate the remark , but I said There's something beside love , Marshal . 
Love's for the heart is there nothing my brother might like for his head ? I pray that you wrong him , sire . 
Marshal , I'm leaving Strelsau for a few days . 
Every evening I will send a courier to you . 
If for three days none comes , you will publish an order which I will give you , depriving Duke Michael of the governorship of Strelsau and appointing you in his place . 
You will declare a state of siege . 
Then you will send word to Michael that you demand an audience of the King You follow me ? Ay , sire . 
, then the King is dead , and you will proclaim the next heir . 
You know who that is ? The Princess Flavia . 
I hope that no life more precious than mine may be demanded , said I , rising . 
Then I held out my hand to him . 
Marshal , I said , in days to come , it may be I know not that you will hear strange things of the man who speaks to you now . 
I have known many of the Elphbergs , said he , and I have seen you . 
Be that my epitaph , said I , when the time comes that another sits on the throne of Ruritania . 
God send a far day , and may I not see it ! said he . 
I was much moved , and the Marshal's worn face twitched . 
I sat down and wrote my order . 
I can hardly yet write , said I my finger is stiff still . 
Indeed , sire , he said , it differs a little from your ordinary handwriting . 
It is unfortunate , for it may lead to a suspicion of forgery . 
Marshal , said I , with a laugh , what use are the guns of Strelsau , if they can't assuage a little suspicion ? He smiled grimly , and took the paper . 
Colonel Sapt and Fritz von Tarlenheim go with me , I continued . 
You go to seek the duke ? he asked in a low tone . 
Yes , the duke , and someone else of whom I have need , and who is at Zenda , I replied . 
I wish I could go with you , he cried , tugging at his white moustache . 
I'd like to strike a blow for you and your crown . 
I leave you what is more than my life and more than my crown , said I , because you are the man I trust more than all other in Ruritania . 
I will deliver her to you safe and sound , said he , and , failing that , I will make her queen . 
We parted , and I returned to the Palace and told Sapt and Fritz what I had done . 
Sapt had a few faults to find and a few grumbles to utter . 
Fritz , too , was ready though he , poor fellow , risked more than Sapt did , for he was a lover , and his happiness hung in the scale . 
he passed his arm through mine , saying It's hard for you . 
Don't think I don't trust you I know you have nothing but true thoughts in your heart . 
But I turned away from him , thankful that he could not see what my heart held , but only be witness to the deeds that my hands were to do . 
Yet even he did not understand , for he had not dared to lift his eyes to the Princess Flavia , as I had lifted mine . 
Our plans were now all made , even as we proceeded to carry them out , and as they will hereafter appear . 
The next morning we were to start on the hunting excursion . 
I had made all arrangements for being absent , and now there was only one thing left to do the hardest , the most heart breaking . 
As evening fell , I drove through the busy streets to Flavia's residence . 
I was recognized as I went and heartily cheered . 
I played my part , and made shift to look the happy lover . 
In spite of my depression , I was almost amused at the coolness and delicate hauteur with which my sweet lover received me . 
She had heard that the King was leaving Strelsau on a hunting expedition . 
I regret that we cannot amuse your Majesty here in Strelsau , she said , tapping her foot lightly on the floor . 
I would have offered you more entertainment , but I was foolish enough to think Well , what ? I asked , leaning over her . 
I'm going after a very big boar , said I and , because I could not help it , I began to play with her hair , but she moved her head away . 
Are you offended with me ? I asked , in feigned surprise , for I could not resist tormenting her a little . 
I had never seen her angry , and every fresh aspect of her was a delight to me . 
What right have I to be offended ? True , you said last night that every hour away from me was wasted . 
But a very big boar ! that's a different thing . 
Perhaps the boar will hunt me , I suggested . 
Perhaps , Flavia , he'll catch me . 
You are not touched even by that danger ? Still she said nothing and I , stealing round , found her eyes full of tears . 
I go to seek Michael in his lair . 
She had turned very pale . 
So , you see , sweet , I was not so poor a lover as you thought me . 
I shall not be long gone . 
You will write to me , Rudolf ? I was weak , but I could not say a word to stir suspicion in her . 
I'll send you all my heart every day , said I. And you'll run no danger ? None that I need not . 
And when will you be back ? Ah , how long will it be ! When shall I be back ? I repeated . 
Yes , yes ! Don't be long , dear , don't be long . 
I shan't sleep while you're away . 
I don't know when I shall be back , said I. Soon , Rudolf , soon ? God knows , my darling . 
But , if never Hush , hush ! and she pressed her lips to mine . 
If never , I whispered , you must take my place you'll be the only one of the House then . 
You must reign , and not weep for me . 
For a moment she drew herself up like a very queen . 
Yes , I will ! she said . 
I will do my part though all my life will be empty and my heart dead yet I'll do it ! She paused , and sinking against me again , wailed softly . 
I dared not ask her to forget , she would have found it an insult . 
I could not tell her then who and what I was . 
She was weeping , and I had but to dry her tears . 
You won't let Michael hurt you ? No , sweetheart . 
Or keep you from me ? No , sweetheart . 
Nor anyone else ? And again I answered No , sweetheart . 
Yet there was one not Michael who , if he lived , must keep me from her and for whose life I was going forth to stake my own . 
Count Stanislas himself was a student and a recluse . 
He seldom visited the house , and had , on Fritz's request , very readily and courteously offered me its hospitality for myself and my party . 
, really because it brought us within striking distance of the Duke of Strelsau's more magnificent dwelling on the other side of the town . 
We were a gallant party . 
They were told a part of the truth the attempt on my life in the summer house was revealed to them , as a spur to their loyalty and an incitement against Michael . 
They were also informed that a friend of the King's was suspected to be forcibly confined within the Castle of Zenda . 
Enough that the King commanded their services , and would rely on their devotion when occasion arose to call for it . 
Thus the scene was shifted from Strelsau to the chateau of Tarlenheim and Castle of Zenda , which frowned at us across the valley . 
I tried to shift my thoughts also , to forget my love , and to bend all my energies to the task before me . 
It was to get the King out of the Castle alive . 
Force was useless in some trick lay the chance and I had already an inkling of what we must do . 
But I was terribly hampered by the publicity which attended my movements . 
Michael must know by now of my expedition and I knew Michael too well to suppose that his eyes would be blinded by the feint of the boar hunt . 
He would understand very well what the real quarry was . 
That , however , must be risked that and all it might mean for Sapt , no less than myself , recognized that the present state of things had become unendurable . 
And there was one thing that I dared to calculate on not , as I now know , without warrant . 
It was this that Black Michael would not believe that I meant well by the King . 
He could not appreciate I will not say an honest man , for the thoughts of my own heart have been revealed but a man acting honestly . 
, in his way he loved her he would think that Sapt and Fritz could be bribed , so the bribe was large enough . 
Thinking thus , would he kill the King , my rival and my danger ? Ay , verily , that he would , with as little compunction as he would kill a rat . 
Musing on all this as I rode along , I took courage . 
Michael knew of my coming , sure enough . 
I had not been in the house an hour , when an imposing Embassy arrived from him . 
A fine , strapping trio they were , splendidly horsed and admirably equipped . 
If my brother has scarlet fever , said I , he is nearer my complexion than he is wont to be , my lord . 
I trust he does not suffer ? He is able to attend to his affairs , sire . 
I hope all beneath your roof are not sick . 
What of my good friends , De Gautet , Bersonin , and Detchard ? I heard the last had suffered a hurt . 
Lauengram and Krafstein looked glum and uneasy , but young Rupert's smile grew broader . 
He hopes soon to find a medicine for it , sire , he answered . 
And I burst out laughing , for I knew what medicine Detchard longed for it is called Revenge . 
You will dine with us , gentlemen ? I asked . 
Young Rupert was profuse in apologies . 
They had urgent duties at the Castle . 
Then , said I , with a wave of my hand , to our next meeting , gentlemen . 
May it make us better acquainted . 
It makes your sin no worse , as I conceive , to do it a la mode and stylishly . 
There was little danger in the excursion the evenings were long and light , and the road this side of Zenda well frequented . 
So off we rode , with a groom behind us . 
I muffled myself up in a big cloak . 
Fritz , said I , as we entered the town , there's an uncommonly pretty girl at this inn . 
How do you know ? he asked . 
Because I've been there , said I. Since ? he began . 
No. Before , said I. But they'll recognize you ? Well , of course they will . 
Now , don't argue , my good fellow , but listen to me . 
We're two gentlemen of the King's household , and one of us has a toothache . 
The other will order a private room and dinner , and , further , a bottle of the best wine for the sufferer . 
And if he be as clever a fellow as I take him for , the pretty girl and no other will wait on us . 
What if she won't ? objected Fritz . 
My dear Fritz , said I , if she won't for you , she will for me . 
We were at the inn . 
Nothing of me but my eyes was visible as I walked in . 
Dinner and the wine were ordered . 
I sat down in the private room . 
A minute later Fritz came in . 
She's coming , he said . 
If she were not , I should have to doubt the Countess Helga's taste . 
I gave her time to set the wine down I didn't want it dropped . 
Fritz poured out a glass and gave it to me . 
Is the gentleman in great pain ? the girl asked , sympathetically . 
The gentleman is no worse than when he saw you last , said I , throwing away my cloak . 
She started , with a little shriek . 
Then she cried It was the King , then ! I told mother so the moment I saw his picture . 
Oh , sir , forgive me ! Faith , you gave me nothing that hurt much , said I. But the things we said ! I forgive them for the thing you did . 
I must go and tell mother . 
Stop , said I , assuming a graver air . 
We are not here for sport tonight . 
Go and bring dinner , and not a word of the King being here . 
She came back in a few minutes , looking grave , yet very curious . 
Well , how is Johann ? I asked , beginning my dinner . 
Oh , that fellow , sir my lord King , I mean ! Sir will do , please . 
How is he ? We hardly see him now , sir . 
And why not ? I told him he came too often , sir , said she , tossing her head . 
So he sulks and stays away ? Yes , sir . 
But you could bring him back ? I suggested with a smile . 
Perhaps I could , said she . 
I know your powers , you see , said I , and she blushed with pleasure . 
It's not only that , sir , that keeps him away . 
He's very busy at the Castle . 
But there's no shooting on now . 
No , sir but he's in charge of the house . 
Johann turned housemaid ? The little girl was brimming over with gossip . 
Well , there are no others , said she . 
There's not a woman there not as a servant , I mean . 
They do say but perhaps it's false , sir . 
Let's have it for what it's worth , said I. Indeed , I'm ashamed to tell you , sir . 
Oh , see , I'm looking at the ceiling . 
They do say there is a lady there , sir but , except for her , there's not a woman in the place . 
And Johann has to wait on the gentlemen . 
Poor Johann ! He must be overworked . 
Yet I'm sure he could find half an hour to come and see you . 
It would depend on the time , sir , perhaps . 
Do you love him ? I asked . 
And you wish to serve the King ? Yes , sir . 
Then tell him to meet you at the second milestone out of Zenda tomorrow evening at ten o'clock . 
Say you'll be there and will walk home with him . 
Do you mean him harm , sir ? Not if he will do as I bid him . 
But I think I've told you enough , my pretty maid . 
See that you do as I bid you . 
And , mind , no one is to know that the King has been here . 
Then we dined , and , wrapping my cloak about my face , with Fritz leading the way , we went downstairs to our horses again . 
It was but half past eight , and hardly yet dark the streets were full for such a quiet little place , and I could see that gossip was all agog . 
With the King on one side and the duke on the other , Zenda felt itself the centre of all Ruritania . 
We jogged gently through the town , but set our horses to a sharper pace when we reached the open country . 
You want to catch this fellow Johann ? asked Fritz . 
Ay , and I fancy I've baited the hook right . 
Our little Delilah will bring our Samson . 
It is not enough , Fritz , to have no women in a house , though brother Michael shows some wisdom there . 
If you want safety , you must have none within fifty miles . 
None nearer than Strelsau , for instance , said poor Fritz , with a lovelorn sigh . 
We reached the avenue of the chateau , and were soon at the house . 
As the hoofs of our horses sounded on the gravel , Sapt rushed out to meet us . 
Thank God , you're safe ! he cried . 
Have you seen anything of them ? Of whom ? I asked , dismounting . 
He drew us aside , that the grooms might not hear . 
Lad , he said to me , you must not ride about here , unless with half a dozen of us . 
You know among our men a tall young fellow , Bernenstein by name ? I knew him . 
He was a fine strapping young man , almost of my height , and of light complexion . 
He lies in his room upstairs , with a bullet through his arm . 
He had no weapon , and he started at a run back towards the house . 
But one of them fired , and he was hit , and had much ado to reach here before he fainted . 
By good luck , they feared to pursue him nearer the house . 
He paused and added Lad , the bullet was meant for you . 
It is very likely , said I , and it's first blood to brother Michael . 
I wonder which three it was , said Fritz . 
Well , Sapt , I said , I went out tonight for no idle purpose , as you shall hear . 
But there's one thing in my mind . 
What's that ? he asked . 
Why this , I answered . 
It is well , he rejoined . 
Come , we are alone , Rassendyll I rose to a sitting posture . 
What's the matter ? he asked . 
I was about to call one of my gentlemen to bring your horse , my lord . 
If you do not know how to address the King , my brother must find another messenger . 
Why keep up the farce ? he asked , negligently dusting his boot with his glove . 
Because it is not finished yet and meanwhile I'll choose my own name . 
Oh , so be it ! Yet I spoke in love for you for indeed you are a man after my own heart . 
Saving my poor honesty , said I , maybe I am . 
But that I keep faith with men , and honour with women , maybe I am , my lord . 
He darted a glance at me a glance of anger . 
Is your mother dead ? said I. Ay , she's dead . 
She may thank God , said I , and I heard him curse me softly . 
Well , what's the message ? I continued . 
The duke offers you more than I would , he growled . 
A halter for you , sire , was my suggestion . 
But he offers you safe conduct across the frontier and a million crowns . 
I prefer your offer , my lord , if I am bound to one . 
You refuse ? Of course . 
I told Michael you would and the villain , his temper restored , gave me the sunniest of smiles . 
The fact is , between ourselves , he continued , Michael doesn't understand a gentleman . 
And you ? I asked . 
I do , he said . 
Well , well , the halter be it . 
I'm sorry you won't live to see it , I observed . 
Has his Majesty done me the honour to fasten a particular quarrel on me ? I would you were a few years older , though . 
Oh , God gives years , but the devil gives increase , laughed he . 
I can hold my own . 
How is your prisoner ? I asked . 
The K ? Your prisoner . 
I forgot your wishes , sire . 
Well , he is alive . 
He rose to his feet I imitated him . 
I sprang a step towards him , clenching my hand . 
He did not move an inch , and his lip curled in insolent amusement . 
Go , while your skin's whole ! I muttered . 
He had repaid me with interest my hit about his mother . 
Then came the most audacious thing I have known in my life . 
My friends were some thirty yards away . 
Rupert called to a groom to bring him his horse , and dismissed the fellow with a crown . 
I stood still , suspecting nothing . 
Rupert made as though to mount then he suddenly turned to me his left hand resting in his belt , his right outstretched Shake hands , he said . 
I bowed , and did as he had foreseen I put my hands behind me . 
With a cry , I staggered back . 
My friends surrounded me , and then I fainted . 
And the queer thing is , pursued Fritz , that I fancy he's not altogether sorry to find himself here . 
This idea argued a shrewdness in our captive which led me to build hopes on his assistance . 
I ordered him to be brought in at once . 
Sapt conducted him , and set him in a chair by my bedside . 
Moreover , when he came in his hands were bound , but that I would not suffer . 
The outer of the two had no windows , but was always lighted with candles the inner had one square window , which gave upon the moat . 
Thus , before the outer door were stormed , the King would be dead . 
And his body ? For his body would be evidence as damning as himself . 
Nay , sir , said Johann , his Highness has thought of that . 
While the two hold the outer room , the one who has killed the King unlocks the bars in the square window . 
till it is level with the mouth of the pipe . 
He inserts the feet in the pipe , and pushes the body down . 
Silently , without splash or sound , it falls into the water and thence to the bottom of the moat , which is twenty feet deep thereabouts . 
That , sir , is the plan of his Highness for the disposal of the King in case of need . 
and he had confined him there , as he conceived he , as Lord of Zenda , had right to do . 
The visitors , baffled , would retire , and Michael could , at his leisure , dispose of the body of the King . 
Sapt , Fritz , and I in my bed , looked round on one another in horror and bewilderment at the cruelty and cunning of the plan . 
If Michael were stronger and overcame my party , there would be an end . 
But if I were stronger , I should have no way to punish him , no means of proving any guilt in him without proving my own guilt also . 
and it would be for the future to witness the final struggle between him and me . 
He seemed to have made triumph possible and ruin impossible . 
Does the King know this ? I asked . 
I and my brother , answered Johann , put up the pipe , under the orders of my Lord of Hentzau . 
He was on guard that day , and the King asked my lord what it meant . 
We thought it not meet that your Majesty should go , in case , sire , you must go , by the common route . 
So we have made you a pretty private passage where the vulgar cannot stare at you or incommode your passage . 
That , sire , is the meaning of that pipe . 
And he laughed and bowed , and prayed the King's leave to replenish the King's glass for the King was at supper . 
But if any asks who the prisoner is , do not answer . 
For all my promises will not save you if any man here learns from you the truth as to the prisoner of Zenda . 
I'll kill you like a dog if the thing be so much as breathed within the house ! Then , when he was gone , I looked at Sapt . 
I lay back on my pillows . 
There seems to me , I observed , to be two ways by which the King can come out of Zenda alive . 
One is by treachery in the duke's followers . 
You can leave that out , said Sapt . 
This , from Rupert , Johann deeply resented , and the duke's approval of it did more to bind the keeper to my side than all my promises . 
On Flavia's arrival I cannot dwell . 
And when I had wasted two days , the Duke of Strelsau arranged a hunting party . 
The stroke was near now . 
For Strakencz urged on me the need of a speedy marriage , and my own inclinations seconded him with such terrible insistence that I feared for my resolution . 
I do not believe that I should have done the deed I dreamt of but I might have come to flight , and my flight would have ruined the cause . 
, and worse still might have happened . 
Yet such was the struggle that began now between Zenda and Tarlenheim . 
When I look back on the time , I seem to myself to have been half mad . 
Late next night I rose from table , where Flavia had sat by me , and conducted her to the door of her apartments . 
There I kissed her hand , and bade her sleep sound and wake to happy days . 
Then I changed my clothes and went out . 
Sapt and Fritz were waiting for me with six men and the horses . 
Over his saddle Sapt carried a long coil of rope , and both were heavily armed . 
I had with me a short stout cudgel and a long knife . 
Making a circuit , we avoided the town , and in an hour found ourselves slowly mounting the hill that led to the Castle of Zenda . 
The night was dark and very stormy gusts of wind and spits of rain caught us as we breasted the incline , and the great trees moaned and sighed . 
When we came to a thick clump , about a quarter of a mile from the Castle , we bade our six friends hide there with the horses . 
Sapt had a whistle , and they could rejoin us in a few moments if danger came but , up to now , we had met no one . 
I hoped that Michael was still off his guard , believing me to be safe in bed . 
A tree stood on the edge of the bank , and Sapt , silently and diligently , set to make fast the rope . 
I stripped off my boots , took a pull at a flask of brandy , loosened the knife in its sheath , and took the cudgel between my teeth . 
Then I shook hands with my friends , not heeding a last look of entreaty from Fritz , and laid hold of the rope . 
I was going to have a look at Jacob's Ladder . 
Gently I lowered myself into the water . 
Though the night was wild , the day had been warm and bright , and the water was not cold . 
I struck out , and began to swim round the great walls which frowned above me . 
I could see only three yards ahead I had then good hopes of not being seen , as I crept along close under the damp , moss grown masonry . 
There were lights from the new part of the Castle on the other side , and now and again I heard laughter and merry shouts . 
I fancied I recognized young Rupert Hentzau's ringing tones , and pictured him flushed with wine . 
Recalling my thoughts to the business in hand , I rested a moment . 
If Johann's description were right , I must be near the window now . 
Very slowly I moved and out of the darkness ahead loomed a shape . 
It was the pipe , curving from the window to the water about four feet of its surface were displayed it was as big round as two men . 
I was about to approach it , when I saw something else , and my heart stood still . 
The nose of a boat protruded beyond the pipe on the other side and listening intently , I heard a slight shuffle as of a man shifting his position . 
The foundations of the Castle extended some fifteen inches , making a ledge and I stood on it , out of water from my armpits upwards . 
Then I crouched and peered through the darkness under the pipe , where , curving , it left a space . 
There was a man in the boat . 
A rifle lay by him I saw the gleam of the barrel . 
Here was the sentinel ! He sat very still . 
I listened he breathed heavily , regularly , monotonously . 
By heaven , he slept ! Kneeling on the shelf , I drew forward under the pipe till my face was within two feet of his . 
He was a big man , I saw . 
It was Max Holf , the brother of Johann . 
My hand stole to my belt , and I drew out my knife . 
Of all the deeds of my life , I love the least to think of this , and whether it were the act of a man or a traitor I will not ask . 
I said to myself It is war and the King's life is the stake . 
And I raised myself from beneath the pipe and stood up by the boat , which lay moored by the ledge . 
Holding my breath , I marked the spot and raised my arm . 
He opened his eyes wide , wider . 
He grasped in terror at my face and clutched at his rifle . 
And I heard the chorus of a love song from the opposite bank . 
Leaving him where he lay , a huddled mass , I turned to Jacob's Ladder . 
This fellow's turn of watching might be over directly , and relief would come . 
There was no break in it , no chink . 
Dropping on my knees , I tested the under side . 
The chink widened a very , very little , and hastily I desisted I had done enough to show that the pipe was not fixed in the masonry at the lower side . 
It was Detchard ! I caught the English accent in a moment . 
Have you anything to ask , sire , before we part ? The King's voice followed . 
It was his , though it was faint and hollow different from the merry tones I had heard in the glades of the forest . 
Pray my brother , said the King , to kill me . 
I am dying by inches here . 
May you dream of paradise ! said the ruffian . 
I heard the bolts of the door run home . 
And then I heard the sobs of the King . 
He was alone , as he thought . 
Who dares mock at him ? I did not venture to speak to him . 
The risk of some exclamation escaping him in surprise was too great . 
I dared do nothing that night and my task now was to get myself away in safety , and to carry off the carcass of the dead man . 
To leave him there would tell too much . 
Casting loose the boat , I got in . 
The wind was blowing a gale now , and there was little danger of oars being heard . 
I rowed swiftly round to where my friends waited . 
I had just reached the spot , when a loud whistle sounded over the moat behind me . 
Hullo , Max ! I heard shouted . 
I hailed Sapt in a low tone . 
I tied it round the corpse , and then went up it myself . 
Whistle you too , I whispered , for our men , and haul in the line . 
They hauled up the body . 
Just as it reached the road , three men on horseback swept round from the front of the Castle . 
We saw them but , being on foot ourselves , we escaped their notice . 
But we heard our men coming up with a shout . 
The devil , but it's dark ! cried a ringing voice . 
A moment later , shots rang out . 
Our people had met them . 
I started forward at a run , Sapt and Fritz following me . 
Thrust , thrust ! cried Rupert again , and a loud groan following told that he himself was not behind hand . 
I'm done , Rupert ! cried a voice . 
Save yourself ! I ran on , holding my cudgel in my hand . 
Suddenly a horse came towards me . 
A man was on it , leaning over his shoulder . 
Are you cooked too , Krafstein ? he cried . 
I sprang to the horse's head . 
At last ! I cried . 
For we seemed to have him . 
He had only his sword in his hand . 
My men were hot upon him Sapt and Fritz were running up . 
I had outstripped them but if they got close enough to fire , he must die or surrender . 
At last ! I cried . 
It's the play actor ! cried he , slashing at my cudgel . 
He cut it clean in two and , judging discretion better than death , I ducked my head and scampered for my life . 
With one gleam of moonlight we should have riddled him with balls but , in the darkness , he won to the corner of the Castle , and vanished from our sight . 
The deuce take him ! grinned Sapt . 
It's a pity , said I , that he's a villain . 
And , in our midst , went the bodies of three gallant gentlemen . 
For my own part , I was vexed and angry that I had killed no man in open fight , but only stabbed a knave in his sleep . 
And I did not love to hear Rupert call me a play actor . 
Duels were frequent among all the upper classes , and private quarrels between great men kept the old habit of spreading to their friends and dependents . 
Nevertheless , after the affray which I have just related , such reports began to circulate that I felt it necessary to be on my guard . 
The death of the gentlemen involved could not be hidden from their relatives . 
, and forbidding it save in the gravest cases . 
He , as well as I , was a play actor' , and , hating one another , we combined to dupe public opinion . 
Unfortunately , however , the necessity for concealment involved the necessity of delay the King might die in his prison , or even be spirited off somewhere else it could not be helped . 
Wait till we are married , said I , smiling . 
As I rode along , I met a dignified looking person driving in a two horsed carriage . 
He stopped his horses , got out , and approached me , bowing low . 
I recognized the Head of the Strelsau Police . 
Your Majesty's ordinance as to duelling is receiving our best attention , he assured me . 
If the best attention involved his presence in Zenda , I determined at once to dispense with it . 
Is that what brings you to Zenda , Prefect ? I asked . 
Why no , sire I am here because I desired to oblige the British Ambassador . 
What's the British Ambassador doing dans cette galere ? said I , carelessly . 
A young countryman of his , sire a man of some position is missing . 
His friends have not heard from him for two months , and there is reason to believe that he was last seen in Zenda . 
Flavia was paying little attention . 
I dared not look at Sapt . 
What was his name ? Rassendyll , sire , he answered and I saw that the name meant nothing to him . 
But , glancing at Flavia , he lowered his voice , as he went on It is thought that he may have followed a lady here . 
Has your Majesty heard of a certain Madame de Mauban ? Why , yes , said I , my eye involuntarily travelling towards the Castle . 
She arrived in Ruritania about the same time as this Rassendyll . 
I caught the Prefect's glance he was regarding me with enquiry writ large on his face . 
Sapt , said I , I must speak a word to the Prefect . 
If he were in love with the lady ? he whispered . 
Nothing has been heard of him for two months and this time it was the eye of the Prefect which travelled towards the Castle . 
Yes , the lady is there , I said quietly . 
But I don't suppose Mr. Rassendyll is that the name ? is . 
The duke , he whispered , does not like rivals , sire . 
You're right there , said I , with all sincerity . 
But surely you hint at a very grave charge ? He spread his hands out in apology . 
I whispered in his ear This is a grave matter . 
Go back to Strelsau But , sire , if I have a clue here ? Go back to Strelsau , I repeated . 
Tell the Ambassador that you have a clue , but that you must be left alone for a week or two . 
Meanwhile , I'll charge myself with looking into the matter . 
The Ambassador is very pressing , sir . 
Come , sir you see that if your suspicions are correct , it is an affair in which we must move with caution . 
We can have no scandal . 
He promised to obey me , and I rode on to rejoin my companions , a little easier in my mind . 
Enquiries after me must be stopped at all hazards for a week or two and this clever official had come surprisingly near the truth . 
His impression might be useful some day , but if he acted on it now it might mean the worse to the King . 
Heartily did I curse George Featherly for not holding his tongue . 
Well , asked Flavia , have you finished your business ? Most satisfactorily , said I. Come , shall we turn round ? We are almost trenching on my brother's territory . 
We were , in fact , at the extreme end of the town , just where the hills begin to mount towards the Castle . 
We cast our eyes up , admiring the massive beauty of the old walls , and we saw a cortege winding slowly down the hill . 
Let us go back , said Sapt . 
I should like to stay , said Flavia and I reined my horse beside hers . 
We could distinguish the approaching party now . 
There came first two mounted servants in black uniforms , relieved only by a silver badge . 
Sapt uncovered , and we stood waiting , Flavia keeping by me and laying her hand on my arm . 
It is one of the gentlemen killed in the quarrel , I expect , she said . 
I beckoned to a groom . 
Ride and ask whom they escort , I ordered . 
He rode up to the servants , and I saw him pass on to the gentleman who rode behind . 
It's Rupert of Hentzau , whispered Sapt . 
Rupert it was , and directly afterwards , waving to the procession to stand still , Rupert trotted up to me . 
He was in a frock coat , tightly buttoned , and trousers . 
He wore an aspect of sadness , and he bowed with profound respect . 
Your Majesty asks whom we escort , said Rupert . 
It is my dear friend , Albert of Lauengram . 
Sir , said I , no one regrets the unfortunate affair more than I. My ordinance , which I mean to have obeyed , is witness to it . 
Poor fellow ! , said Flavia softly , and I saw Rupert's eyes flash at her . 
Whereat I grew red for , if I had my way , Rupert Hentzau should not have defiled her by so much as a glance . 
Yet he did it and dared to let admiration be seen in his look . 
Your Majesty's words are gracious , he said . 
I grieve for my friend . 
Yet , sire , others must soon lie as he lies now . 
It is a thing we all do well to remember , my lord , I rejoined . 
Even kings , sire , said Rupert , in a moralizing tone and old Sapt swore softly by my side . 
It is true , said I. How fares my brother , my lord ? He is better , sire . 
He hopes soon to leave for Strelsau , when his health is secured . 
He is only convalescent then ? There remain one or two small troubles , answered the insolent fellow , in the mildest tone in the world . 
Express my earnest hope , said Flavia , that they may soon cease to trouble him . 
Your Royal Highness's wish is , humbly , my own , said Rupert , with a bold glance that brought a blush to Flavia's cheek . 
I bowed and Rupert , bowing lower , backed his horse and signed to his party to proceed . 
With a sudden impulse , I rode after him . 
He turned swiftly , fearing that , even in the presence of the dead and before a lady's eyes , I meant him mischief . 
You fought as a brave man the other night , I said . 
Come , you are young , sir . 
If you will deliver your prisoner alive to me , you shall come to no hurt . 
He looked at me with a mocking smile but suddenly he rode nearer to me . 
I'm unarmed , he said and our old Sapt there could pick me off in a minute . 
I'm not afraid , said I. No , curse you ! he answered . 
Look here , I made you a proposal from the duke once . 
I'll hear nothing from Black Michael , said I. Then hear one from me . 
He lowered his voice to a whisper . 
Let Sapt and Tarlenheim lead . 
Go on , said I. Arrange the time with me . 
I have such confidence in you , my lord ! Tut ! I'm talking business now . 
Surely , I exclaimed , while you're above ground , hell wants its master ! Well , think it over , he said . 
And , look you , it would take more than a scruple or two to keep me from yonder girl , and his evil eye flashed again at her I loved . 
Get out of my reach ! said I and yet in a moment I began to laugh for the very audacity of it . 
Would you turn against your master ? I asked . 
A lady ? I asked negligently . 
Ay , and a beauty , he nodded . 
And the duke interferes ? Well , said Rupert meditatively , that's hardly a fair way of putting it , perhaps . 
I went back to Flavia and Sapt , pondering on the strangeness of the man . 
Wicked men I have known in plenty , but Rupert Hentzau remains unique in my experience . 
And if there be another anywhere , let him be caught and hanged out of hand . 
So say I ! He's very handsome , isn't he ? said Flavia . 
Well , of course , she didn't know him as I did yet I was put out , for I thought his bold glances would have made her angry . 
But my dear Flavia was a woman , and so she was not put out . 
On the contrary , she thought young Rupert very handsome as , beyond question , the ruffian was . 
And how sad he looked at his friend's death ! said she . 
He'll have better reason to be sad at his own , observed Sapt , with a grim smile . 
Why are you angry ? It was something that fellow said to me , said I , but I was smiling as we reached the door and dismounted . 
There a servant handed me a note it was unaddressed . 
Is it for me ? I asked . 
Yes , sire a boy brought it . 
I tore it open Johann carries this for me . 
CHAPTER A Desperate Plan As I had ridden publicly in Zenda , and had talked there with Rupert Hentzau , of course all pretence of illness was at an end . 
I marked the effect on the garrison of Zenda they ceased to be seen abroad and any of my men who went near the Castle reported that the utmost vigilance prevailed there . 
Touched as I was by Madame de Mauban's appeal , I seemed as powerless to befriend her as I had proved to help the King . 
And this with Flavia sitting by me I was forced to do , setting a date a fortnight ahead , and appointing the Cathedral in Strelsau as the place . 
He had been waiting on the duke when the tidings came . 
, but not a bit did Rupert care for he rallied the duke on having made a better King than had reigned for years past in Ruritania . 
For the King was very sick Johann had seen him , and he was wasted and hardly able to move . 
There could be no thought of taking another for him now . 
Yet his life hung in the balance and I was still strong and whole and free . 
Wherefore great gloom reigned at Zenda and save when they quarrelled , to which they were very prone , they hardly spoke . 
because the duke always set Detchard to guard the King when Madame de Mauban was in the cell which precaution was , indeed , not unwise in my careful brother . 
Thus Johann told his tale and seized his crowns . 
And how do they guard the King now ? I asked , remembering that two of the Six were dead , and Max Holf also . 
Detchard and Bersonin watch by night , Rupert Hentzau and De Gautet by day , sir , he answered . 
Only two at a time ? Ay , sir but the others rest in a room just above , and are within sound of a cry or a whistle . 
A room just above ? I didn't know of that . 
Is there any communication between it and the room where they watch ? No , sir . 
You must go down a few stairs and through the door by the drawbridge , and so to where the King is lodged . 
And that door is locked ? Only the four lords have keys , sir . 
I drew nearer to him . 
And have they keys of the grating ? I asked in a low whisper . 
I think , sir , only Detchard and Rupert . 
Where does the duke lodge ? In the chateau , on the first floor . 
His apartments are on the right as you go towards the drawbridge . 
And Madame de Mauban ? Just opposite , on the left . 
But her door is locked after she has entered . 
To keep her in ? Doubtless , sir . 
Perhaps for another reason ? It is possible . 
And the duke , I suppose , has the key ? Yes . 
And where do you sleep ? In the entrance hall of the chateau , with five servants . 
Armed ? They have pikes , sir , but no firearms . 
The duke will not trust them with firearms . 
Then at last I took the matter boldly in my hands . 
I had failed once at Jacob's Ladder I should fail again there . 
I must make the attack from the other side . 
I have promised you twenty thousand crowns , said I. You shall have fifty thousand if you will do what I ask of you tomorrow night . 
But , first , do those servants know who your prisoner is ? No , sir . 
They believe him to be some private enemy of the duke's . 
And they would not doubt that I am the King ? How should they ? he asked . 
Look to this , then . 
Tomorrow , at two in the morning exactly , fling open the front door of the chateau . 
Don't fail by an instant . 
Shall you be there , sir ? Ask no questions . 
Do what I tell you . 
Say the hall is close , or what you will . 
That is all I ask of you . 
And may I escape by the door , sir , when I have opened it ? Yes , as quick as your legs will carry you . 
The man was trembling but I had to trust to what he had of courage and to what he had of honesty . 
I dared not wait , for I feared that the King would die . 
When the fellow was gone , I called Sapt and Fritz to me , and unfolded the plan that I had formed . 
Sapt shook his head over it . 
Why can't you wait ? he asked . 
Michael will be forced to act before that . 
Then , said I , the King may live . 
Well , and if he does ? For a fortnight ? I asked simply . 
And Sapt bit his moustache . 
Suddenly Fritz von Tarlenheim laid his hand on my shoulder . 
Let us go and make the attempt , said he . 
I mean you to go don't be afraid , said I. Ay , but do you stay here , and take care of the princess . 
A gleam came into old Sapt's eye . 
It is true , said Fritz . 
You shall go , lad , said Sapt . 
Here is the plan I had made . 
A strong party under Sapt's command was to steal up to the door of the chateau . 
If discovered prematurely , they were to kill anyone who found them with their swords , for I wanted no noise of firing . 
If all went well , they would be at the door when Johann opened it . 
They were to rush in and secure the servants if their mere presence and the use of the King's name were not enough . 
At the same moment and on this hinged the plan a woman's cry was to ring out loud and shrill from Antoinette de Mauban's chamber . 
Again and again she was to cry Help , help ! Michael , help ! and then to utter the name of young Rupert Hentzau . 
Then , as we hoped , Michael , in fury , would rush out of his apartments opposite , and fall alive into the hands of Sapt . 
De Gautet might or might not come with him that must be left to chance . 
They dead , two men only would remain and for them we must trust to the confusion we had created and to a sudden rush . 
We should have the keys of the door that led to the all important rooms . 
Perhaps they would rush out . 
For though Detchard was a cool man , relentless , and no coward , he had neither the dash nor the recklessness of Rupert . 
Strakencz would be there , and he was to conceal our departure , if he could , from Flavia . 
And , to say truth , this was what I thought most likely to happen . 
For I had great doubts whether either the King or Black Michael or I had more than a day to live . 
It was late when we rose from conference , and I betook me to the princess's apartments . 
I was wearing the King's ring but I had also on my little finger a plain band of gold engraved with the motto of our family Nil Quae Feci . 
This I took off and put on her , and signed to her to let me go . 
And she , understanding , stood away and watched me with dimmed eyes . 
Wear that ring , even though you wear another when you are queen , I said . 
Whatever else I wear , this I will wear till I die and after , said she , as she kissed the ring . 
CHAPTER Young Rupert's Midnight Diversions The night came fine and clear . 
I had prayed for dirty weather , such as had favoured my previous voyage in the moat , but Fortune was this time against me . 
Still I reckoned that by keeping close under the wall and in the shadow I could escape detection from the windows of the chateau that looked out on the scene of my efforts . 
If they searched the moat , indeed , my scheme must fail but I did not think they would . 
They had made Jacob's Ladder secure against attack . 
Johann had himself helped to fix it closely to the masonry on the under side , so that it could not now be moved from below any more than from above . 
An assault with explosives or a long battering with picks alone could displace it , and the noise involved in either of these operations put them out of the question . 
There , I said to Sapt , was the real danger . 
And there , I added , you shall be . 
Doesn't that content you ? But it did not . 
Dearly would he have liked to come with me , had I not utterly refused to take him . 
At twelve o'clock , Sapt's command left the chateau of Tarlenheim and struck off to the right , riding by unfrequented roads , and avoiding the town of Zenda . 
If all went well , they would be in front of the Castle by about a quarter to two . 
Leaving their horses half a mile off , they were to steal up to the entrance and hold themselves in readiness for the opening of the door . 
If the door were not opened by two , they were to send Fritz von Tarlenheim round to the other side of the Castle . 
I would meet him there if I were alive , and we would consult whether to storm the Castle or not . 
If I were not there , they were to return with all speed to Tarlenheim , rouse the Marshal , and march in force to Zenda . 
For if not there , I should be dead and I knew that the King would not be alive five minutes after I ceased to breathe . 
I must now leave Sapt and his friends , and relate how I myself proceeded on this eventful night . 
I went out on the good horse which had carried me , on the night of the coronation , back from the hunting lodge to Strelsau . 
I carried a revolver in the saddle and my sword . 
I was covered with a large cloak , and under this I wore a warm , tight fitting woollen jersey , a pair of knickerbockers , thick stockings , and light canvas shoes . 
I had rubbed myself thoroughly with oil , and I carried a large flask of whisky . 
Also I tied round my body a length of thin but stout cord , and I did not forget my ladder . 
I , starting after Sapt , took a shorter route , skirting the town to the left , and found myself in the outskirts of the forest at about half past twelve . 
Here I unwound my rope from about my waist , bound it securely round the trunk of a tree on the bank , and let myself down . 
Thus voyaging , I came to my old friend , Jacob's Ladder , and felt the ledge of the masonry under me . 
I crouched down in the shadow of the great pipe I tried to stir it , but it was quite immovable and waited . 
The drawbridge was still in its place . 
I saw its airy , slight framework above me , some ten yards to my right , as I crouched with my back against the wall of the King's cell . 
I made out a window two yards my side of it and nearly on the same level . 
That , if Johann spoke true , must belong to the duke's apartments and on the other side , in about the same relative position , must be Madame de Mauban's window . 
Women are careless , forgetful creatures . 
I prayed that she might not forget that she was to be the victim of a brutal attempt at two o'clock precisely . 
Suddenly the duke's window grew bright . 
The shutters were not closed , and the interior became partially visible to me as I cautiously raised myself till I stood on tiptoe . 
Thus placed , my range of sight embraced a yard or more inside the window , while the radius of light did not reach me . 
The window was flung open and someone looked out . 
I marked Antoinette de Mauban's graceful figure , and , though her face was in shadow , the fine outline of her head was revealed against the light behind . 
I longed to cry softly , Remember ! but I dared not and happily , for a moment later a man came up and stood by her . 
He tried to put his arm round her waist , but with a swift motion she sprang away and leant against the shutter , her profile towards me . 
I made out who the newcomer was it was young Rupert . 
A low laugh from him made me sure , as he leant forward , stretching out his hand towards her . 
Gently , gently ! I murmured . 
You're too soon , my boy ! His head was close to hers . 
It looks cold , said he . 
Being spared the temptation , I merely added this new score to his account . 
Though , faith , said Rupert , it's little he cares . 
He's mad about the princess , you know . 
He talks of nothing but cutting the play actor's throat . 
Could I leave the lady alone ? The newcomer must be Black Michael . 
I saw him directly , as he advanced towards the window . 
He caught young Rupert by the arm . 
The moat would hold more than the King ! said he , with a significant gesture . 
Does your Highness threaten me ? asked Rupert . 
A threat is more warning than most men get from me . 
Yet , observed Rupert , Rudolf Rassendyll has been much threatened , and yet lives ! Am I in fault because my servants bungle ? asked Michael scornfully . 
Your Highness has run no risk of bungling ! sneered Rupert . 
It was telling the duke that he shirked danger as plain as ever I have heard a man told . 
Black Michael had self control . 
Are Detchard and Bersonin at their posts ? They are , sir . 
I need you no more . 
Nay , I'm not oppressed with fatigue , said Rupert . 
Pray , sir , leave us , said Michael , more impatiently . 
In ten minutes the drawbridge will be drawn back , and I presume you have no wish to swim to your bed . 
I heard the door open and shut again . 
Michael and Antoinette de Mauban were left together . 
To my chagrin , the duke laid his hand on the window and closed it . 
He stood talking to Antoinette for a moment or two . 
She shook her head , and he turned impatiently away . 
The door sounded again , and Black Michael closed the shutters . 
De Gautet , De Gautet , man ! sounded from the drawbridge . 
Unless you want a bath before your bed , come along ! It was Rupert's voice , coming from the end of the drawbridge . 
A moment later he and De Gautet stepped out on the bridge . 
Rupert's arm was through De Gautet's , and in the middle of the bridge he detained his companion and leant over . 
I dropped behind the shelter of Jacob's Ladder . 
Then Master Rupert had a little sport . 
He took from De Gautet a bottle which he carried , and put it to his lips . 
Hardly a drop ! he cried discontentedly , and flung it in the moat . 
It fell , as I judged from the sound and the circles on the water , within a yard of the pipe . 
And Rupert , taking out his revolver , began to shoot at it . 
The first two shots missed the bottle , but hit the pipe . 
The third shattered the bottle . 
'Ware bridge ! a voice cried , to my relief . 
Rupert and De Gautet cried , A moment ! and ran across . 
The bridge was drawn back , and all became still . 
The clock struck a quarter past one . 
I rose and stretched myself and yawned . 
I think some ten minutes had passed when I heard a slight noise to my right . 
I peered over the pipe , and saw a dark figure standing in the gateway that led to the bridge . 
By the careless , graceful poise , I guessed it to be Rupert again . 
He held a sword in his hand , and he stood motionless for a minute or two . 
Wild thoughts ran through me . 
In an instant I saw that there must be steps in the wall it was plain . 
They were cut into or affixed to the wall , at intervals of about eighteen inches . 
Rupert set his foot on the lower one . 
Then he placed his sword between his teeth , turned round , and noiselessly let himself into the water . 
Had it been a matter of my life only , I would have swum to meet him . 
Dearly would I have loved to fight it out with him then and there with steel , on a fine night , and none to come between us . 
But there was the King ! I restrained myself , but I could not bridle my swift breathing , and I watched him with the intensest eagerness . 
He swam leisurely and quietly across . 
There were more steps up on the other side , and he climbed them . 
When he set foot in the gateway , standing on the drawn back bridge , he felt in his pocket and took something out . 
I heard him unlock the door . 
I could hear no noise of its closing behind him . 
He vanished from my sight . 
Abandoning my ladder I saw I did not need it now I swam to the side of the bridge and climbed half way up the steps . 
There I hung with my sword in my hand , listening eagerly . 
The duke's room was shuttered and dark . 
There was a light in the window on the opposite side of the bridge . 
Not a sound broke the silence , till half past one chimed from the great clock in the tower of the chateau . 
There were other plots than mine afoot in the Castle that night . 
CHAPTER The Forcing of the Trap The position wherein I stood does not appear very favourable to thought yet for the next moment or two I thought profoundly . 
I had , I told myself , scored one point . 
Be Rupert Hentzau's errand what it might , and the villainy he was engaged on what it would , I had scored one point . 
He was on the other side of the moat from the King , and it would be by no fault of mine if ever he set foot on the same side again . 
I had three left to deal with two on guard and De Gautet in his bed . 
Ah , if I had the keys ! I would have risked everything and attacked Detchard and Bersonin before their friends could join them . 
I must wait till the coming of my friends enticed someone to cross the bridge someone with the keys . 
And I waited , as it seemed , for half an hour , really for about five minutes , before the next act in the rapid drama began . 
All was still on the other side . 
The duke's room remained inscrutable behind its shutters . 
The light burnt steadily in Madame de Mauban's window . 
Then I heard the faintest , faintest sound it came from behind the door which led to the drawbridge on the other side of the moat . 
It but just reached my ear , yet I could not be mistaken as to what it was . 
It was made by a key being turned very carefully and slowly . 
But I did not know what door it was , nor on which of his favourite pursuits young Rupert was spending the hours of that night . 
It sounded as though someone had flung down a lamp and the window went dark and black . 
At the same instant a cry rang out , shrill in the night Help , help ! Michael , help ! and was followed by a shriek of utter terror . 
I was tingling in every nerve . 
I stood on the topmost step , clinging to the threshold of the gate with my right hand and holding my sword in my left . 
Suddenly I perceived that the gateway was broader than the bridge there was a dark corner on the opposite side where a man could stand . 
I darted across and stood there . 
Thus placed , I commanded the path , and no man could pass between the chateau and the old Castle till he had tried conclusions with me . 
Then a door was flung open and clanged against the wall , and I heard the handle of a door savagely twisted . 
Open the door ! In God's name , what's the matter ? cried a voice the voice of Black Michael himself . 
He was answered by the very words I had written in my letter . 
Help , Michael Hentzau ! A fierce oath rang out from the duke , and with a loud thud he threw himself against the door . 
At the same moment I heard a window above my head open , and a voice cried What's the matter ? and I heard a man's hasty footsteps . 
If De Gautet came my way , the Six would be less by one more . 
Then I heard the clash of crossed swords and a tramp of feet and I cannot tell the thing so quickly as it happened , for all seemed to come at once . 
There was an angry cry from madame's room , the cry of a wounded man the window was flung open young Rupert stood there sword in hand . 
He turned his back , and I saw his body go forward to the lunge . 
Help ! cried the duke's voice , faint and husky . 
I heard a step on the stairs above me and I heard a stir down to my left , in the direction of the King's cell . 
But , before anything happened on my side of the moat , I saw five or six men round young Rupert in the embrasure of madame's window . 
Three or four times he lunged with incomparable dash and dexterity . 
For an instant they fell back , leaving a ring round him . 
He leapt on the parapet of the window , laughing as he leapt , and waving his sword in his hand . 
He was drunk with blood , and he laughed again wildly as he flung himself headlong into the moat . 
I dropped on my knees by him . 
At last I had them . 
Seizing the largest , I felt the lock of the door that led to the cell . 
I fitted in the key . 
I drew the door close behind me and locked it as noiselessly as I could , putting the key in my pocket . 
I found myself at the top of a flight of steep stone stairs . 
An oil lamp burnt dimly in the bracket . 
I took it down and held it in my hand and I stood and listened . 
What in the devil can it be ? I heard a voice say . 
It came from behind a door that faced me at the bottom of the stairs . 
And another answered Shall we kill him ? I strained to hear the answer , and could have sobbed with relief when Detchard's voice came grating and cold Wait a bit . 
There'll be trouble if we strike too soon . 
There was a moment's silence . 
Then I heard the bolt of the door cautiously drawn back . 
Instantly I put out the light I held , replacing the lamp in the bracket . 
It's dark the lamp's out . 
Have you a light ? said the other voice Bersonin's . 
No doubt they had a light , but they should not use it . 
It was come to the crisis now , and I rushed down the steps and flung myself against the door . 
Bersonin had unbolted it and it gave way before me . 
The Belgian stood there sword in hand , and Detchard was sitting on a couch at the side of the room . 
In astonishment at seeing me , Bersonin recoiled Detchard jumped to his sword . 
I rushed madly at the Belgian he gave way before me , and I drove him up against the wall . 
He was no swordsman , though he fought bravely , and in a moment he lay on the floor before me . 
I turned Detchard was not there . 
Faithful to his orders , he had not risked a fight with me , but had rushed straight to the door of the King's room , opened it and slammed it behind him . 
Even now he was at his work inside . 
And surely he would have killed the King , and perhaps me also , had it not been for one devoted man who gave his life for the King . 
Detchard and the doctor were together in the middle of the room and the doctor had flung himself on the murderer , pinning his hands to his sides for an instant . 
Then Detchard wrenched himself free from the feeble grip , and , as I entered , drove his sword through the hapless man . 
Then he turned on me , crying At last ! We were sword to sword . 
By blessed chance , neither he nor Bersonin had been wearing their revolvers . 
Yes , we were man to man and we began to fight , silently , sternly , and hard . 
And I saw a smile on his face , and he wounded me in the left arm . 
No glory do I take for that contest . 
Come on ! I cried . 
Come on ! Drive it against his legs . 
Detchard replied with a savage thrust . 
He all but had me . 
Come on ! Come on , man ! I cried . 
Come and share the fun ! And the King laughed gleefully , and came on , pushing his chair before him . 
With an oath Detchard skipped back , and , before I knew what he was doing , had turned his sword against the King . 
He made one fierce cut at the King , and the King , with a piteous cry , dropped where he stood . 
The stout ruffian turned to face me again . 
But his own hand had prepared his destruction for in turning he trod in the pool of blood that flowed from the dead physician . 
Like a dart I was upon him . 
Was the King dead ? It was my first thought . 
I rushed to where he lay . 
Ay , it seemed as if he were dead , for he had a great gash across his forehead , and he lay still in a huddled heap on the floor . 
I dropped on my knees beside him , and leant my ear down to hear if he breathed . 
But before I could there was a loud rattle from the outside . 
I knew the sound the drawbridge was being pushed out . 
A moment later it rang home against the wall on my side of the moat . 
I should be caught in a trap and the King with me , if he yet lived . 
He must take his chance , to live or die . 
I took my sword , and passed into the outer room . 
Who were pushing the drawbridge out my men ? If so , all was well . 
My eye fell on the revolvers , and I seized one and paused to listen in the doorway of the outer room . 
To listen , say I ? Yes , and to get my breath and I tore my shirt and twisted a strip of it round my bleeding arm and stood listening again . 
I would have given the world to hear Sapt's voice . 
For I was faint , spent , and weary . 
And that wild cat Rupert Hentzau was yet at large in the Castle . 
What was the sound ? Again a strange one for the place and time . 
An easy , scornful , merry laugh the laugh of young Rupert Hentzau ! I could scarcely believe that a sane man would laugh . 
Yet the laugh told me that my men had not come for they must have shot Rupert ere now , if they had come . 
Well , it would be true before they got there . 
Was not Rupert laughing in triumph ? For a moment , I sank , unnerved , against the door . 
Then I started up alert again , for Rupert cried scornfully Well , the bridge is there ! Come over it ! And in God's name , let's see Black Michael . 
Keep back , you curs ! Michael , come and fight for her ! If it were a three cornered fight , I might yet bear my part . 
I turned the key in the door and looked out . 
But soon the scene grew clear and it was a strange scene . 
The bridge was in its place . 
At the far end of it stood a group of the duke's servants two or three carried the lights which had dazzled me , three or four held pikes in rest . 
They were huddled together their weapons were protruded before them their faces were pale and agitated . 
By marvellous chance , I was master . 
The cravens would oppose me no more than they dared attack Rupert . 
I had but to raise my revolver , and I sent him to his account with his sins on his head . 
He did not so much as know that I was there . 
I did nothing why , I hardly know to this day . 
I had killed one man stealthily that night , and another by luck rather than skill perhaps it was that . 
Again , villain as the man was , I did not relish being one of a crowd against him perhaps it was that . 
But stronger than either of these restrained feelings came a curiosity and a fascination which held me spellbound , watching for the outcome of the scene . 
Michael , you dog ! Michael ! If you can stand , come on ! cried Rupert and he advanced a step , the group shrinking back a little before him . 
I struck better than I knew ! and he laughed triumphantly . 
First , there arose a distant sound , as of shouts and knockings from the other side of the chateau . 
It must be my men , come by a happy disobedience to seek me . 
The noise continued , but none of the rest seemed to heed it . 
Their attention was chained by what now happened before their eyes . 
The group of servants parted and a woman staggered on to the bridge . 
In her shaking hand she held a revolver , and , as she tottered forward , she fired it at Rupert Hentzau . 
The ball missed him , and struck the woodwork over my head . 
With a wonderful effort , she calmed herself till she stood still and rigid . 
Then very slowly and deliberately she began to raise her arm again , taking most careful aim . 
He would be mad to risk it . 
He must rush on her , chancing the bullet , or retreat towards me . 
I covered him with my weapon . 
He swam swiftly and easily . 
I was weary and half crippled with my wounded arm . 
I could not gain on him . 
He was under the bank now , searching , as I guessed , for a spot that he could climb . 
I knew there to be none but there was my rope , which would still be hanging where I had left it . 
He would come to where it was before I could . 
Perhaps he would miss it perhaps he would find it and if he drew it up after him , he would get a good start of me . 
I put forth all my remaining strength and pressed on . 
At last I began to gain on him for he , occupied with his search , unconsciously slackened his pace . 
Ah , he had found it ! A low shout of triumph came from him . 
He laid hold of it and began to haul himself up . 
Hullo ! who's here ? he cried in startled tones . 
I laid hold of the rope , but I paused . 
He stood on the bank , sword in hand , and he could cut my head open or spit me through the heart as I came up . 
I let go the rope . 
Never mind , said I but as I am here , I think I'll stay . 
He smiled down on me . 
These women are the deuce he began when suddenly the great bell of the Castle started to ring furiously , and a loud shout reached us from the moat . 
Rupert smiled again , and waved his hand to me . 
I should like a turn with you , but it's a little too hot ! said he , and he disappeared from above me . 
In an instant , without thinking of danger , I laid my hand to the rope . 
I saw him thirty yards off , running like a deer towards the shelter of the forest . 
For once Rupert Hentzau had chosen discretion for his part . 
I laid my feet to the ground and rushed after him , calling to him to stand . 
It was three o'clock now , and day was dawning . 
I was on a long straight grass avenue , and a hundred yards ahead ran young Rupert , his curls waving in the fresh breeze . 
I was weary and panting he looked over his shoulder and waved his hand again to me . 
He was mocking me , for he saw he had the pace of me . 
I was forced to pause for breath . 
A moment later , Rupert turned sharply to the right and was lost from my sight . 
I thought all was over , and in deep vexation sank on the ground . 
But I was up again directly , for a scream rang through the forest a woman's scream . 
Putting forth the last of my strength , I ran on to the place where he had turned out of my sight , and , turning also , I saw him again . 
But alas ! I could not touch him . 
He was in the act of lifting a girl down from her horse doubtless it was her scream that I heard . 
She looked like a small farmer's or a peasant's daughter , and she carried a basket on her arm . 
Probably she was on her way to the early market at Zenda . 
Her horse was a stout , well shaped animal . 
Master Rupert lifted her down amid her shrieks the sight of him frightened her but he treated her gently , laughed , kissed her , and gave her money . 
Then he jumped on the horse , sitting sideways like a woman and then he waited for me . 
I , on my part , waited for him . 
Presently he rode towards me , keeping his distance , however . 
He lifted up his hand , saying What did you in the Castle ? I killed three of your friends , said I. What ! You got to the cells ? Yes . 
And the King ? He was hurt by Detchard before I killed Detchard , but I pray that he lives . 
You fool ! said Rupert , pleasantly . 
One thing more I did . 
And what's that ? I spared your life . 
I was behind you on the bridge , with a revolver in my hand . 
No ? Faith , I was between two fires ! Get off your horse , I cried , and fight like a man . 
Before a lady ! said he , pointing to the girl . 
Fie , your Majesty ! Then in my rage , hardly knowing what I did , I rushed at him . 
For a moment he seemed to waver . 
Then he reined his horse in and stood waiting for me . 
On I went in my folly . 
I seized the bridle and I struck at him . 
He parried and thrust at me . 
I fell back a pace and rushed at him again and this time I reached his face and laid his cheek open , and darted back almost before he could strike me . 
He seemed almost dazed at the fierceness of my attack otherwise I think he must have killed me . 
I sank on my knee panting , expecting him to ride at me . 
He was riding hard , and he carried a revolver in his hand . 
It was Fritz von Tarlenheim , my faithful friend . 
Rupert saw him , and knew that the game was up . 
He checked his rush at me and flung his leg over the saddle , but yet for just a moment he waited . 
And I watched him go down the long avenue , riding as though he rode for his pleasure and singing as he went , for all there was that gash in his cheek . 
Once again he turned to wave his hand , and then the gloom of thickets swallowed him and he was lost from our sight . 
Thus he vanished reckless and wary , graceful and graceless , handsome , debonair , vile , and unconquered . 
And I flung my sword passionately on the ground and cried to Fritz to ride after him . 
But Fritz stopped his horse , and leapt down and ran to me , and knelt , putting his arm about me . 
And indeed it was time , for the wound that Detchard had given me was broken forth afresh , and my blood was staining the ground . 
Then give me the horse ! I cried , staggering to my feet and throwing his arms off me . 
And the strength of my rage carried me so far as where the horse stood , and then I fell prone beside it . 
And Fritz knelt by me again . 
Ay , friend dear friend ! he said , tender as a woman . 
Is the King alive ? He took his handkerchief and wiped my lips , and bent and kissed me on the forehead . 
He was a man of strong passions , but of stronger will , and his cool head ruled both . 
He was content to take all and give nothing . 
As I say , he took and gave not . 
Simultaneously , Antoinette found herself entangled in his audacious schemes . 
Hence the letters of warning she had written . 
Whether the lines she sent to Flavia were inspired by good or bad feeling , by jealousy or by pity , I do not know but here also she served us well . 
loved Michael , and trusted to gain his life , if not his pardon , from the King , as the reward for her assistance . 
His triumph she did not desire , for she loathed his crime , and loathed yet more fiercely what would be the prize of it his marriage with his cousin , Princess Flavia . 
At Zenda new forces came into play the lust and daring of young Rupert . 
He was caught by her beauty , perhaps perhaps it was enough for him that she belonged to another man , and that she hated him . 
For many days there had been quarrels and ill will between him and the duke , and the scene which I had witnessed in the duke's room was but one of many . 
On this night , then , Rupert had determined to have his will . 
When she had gone to her room , he , having furnished himself with a key to it , had made his entrance . 
The duke's blood , spurting out , had stained his opponent's shirt but Rupert , not knowing that he had dealt Michael his death , was eager to finish the encounter . 
How he meant to deal with the other three of the band , I know not . 
I dare say he did not think , for the killing of Michael was not premeditated . 
Me she had not seen , nor did she till I darted out of my ambush , and leapt after Rupert into the moat . 
The same moment found my friends on the scene . 
They had reached the chateau in due time , and waited ready by the door . 
Till nearly half past two Sapt waited then , following my orders , he had sent Fritz to search the banks of the moat . 
And all she cried was , that I had been at the end of the bridge and leapt off . 
What of the prisoner ? asked Sapt but she shook her head . 
They felt him and found him dead . 
and going back to Michael's body , pushing aside Antoinette , who prayed by it , they found a key to the door which I had locked , and opened the door . 
The staircase was dark , and they would not use a torch at first , lest they should be more exposed to fire . 
But soon Fritz cried The door down there is open ! See , there is light ! So they went on boldly , and found none to oppose them . 
And when they came to the outer room and saw the Belgian , Bersonin , lying dead , they thanked God , Sapt saying Ay , he has been here . 
Then rushing into the King's cell , they found Detchard lying dead across the dead physician , and the King on his back with his chair by him . 
And Sapt , seeing I had been there , and having heard Antoinette's story , sent Fritz to search the moat and then the forest . 
He dared send no one else . 
And Fritz found my horse , and feared the worst . 
Then , as I have told , he found me , guided by the shout with which I had called on Rupert to stop and face me . 
Yet , had Fritz killed him , I should have grudged it . 
The enterprise of the King's rescue being thus prosperously concluded , it lay on Colonel Sapt to secure secrecy as to the King ever having been in need of rescue . 
The princess was enjoined to remain at Tarlenheim , and there await her cousin's coming or his further injunctions . 
Thus the King would come to his own again , having wrought brave deeds , and escaped , almost by a miracle , the treacherous assault of his unnatural brother . 
This ingenious arrangement of my long headed old friend prospered in every way , save where it encountered a force that often defeats the most cunning schemes . 
I mean nothing else than the pleasure of a woman . 
Thus the Princess Flavia came to Zenda . 
I had revived from my swoon , and walked , resting on Fritz's arm and looking out from the cover of the trees , I saw the princess . 
Suddenly understanding from a glance at my companion's face that we must not meet her , I sank on my knees behind a clump of bushes . 
Yes , sir , he's wounded , I know but he's there with Count Fritz and not at the Castle , she persisted . 
Is he in two places , or are there two Kings ? asked Flavia , bewildered . 
, and she smiled and gave the girl money . 
I will go and see this gentleman , and she rose to alight from the carriage . 
In the Castle ? she asked . 
Where else , madame ? said he , bowing . 
But this girl says he is yonder with Count Fritz . 
Sapt turned his eyes on the child with an incredulous smile . 
Every fine gentleman is a King to such , said he . 
Why , he's as like the King as one pea to another , madame ! cried the girl , a little shaken but still obstinate . 
The old Marshal's face asked unspoken questions . 
Flavia's glance was no less eloquent . 
I'll ride myself and see this man , said Sapt hastily . 
Nay , I'll come myself , said the princess . 
Then come alone , he whispered . 
And when I saw them coming , I sat in a sad heap on the ground , and buried my face in my hands . 
I could not look at her . 
Fritz knelt by me , laying his hand on my shoulder . 
It is the King ! she said . 
Pray , Colonel Sapt , tell me where lay the wit of the joke you played on me ? We answered none of us we three were silent before her . 
Regardless of them , she threw her arms round my neck and kissed me . 
Then Sapt spoke in a low hoarse whisper It is not the King . 
Don't kiss him he's not the King . 
It was the sob that told her no comedy was afoot . 
He is the King ! she cried . 
It is the King's face the King's ring my ring ! It is my love ! Your love , madame , said old Sapt , but not the King . 
The King is there in the Castle . 
This gentleman Look at me , Rudolf ! look at me ! she cried , taking my face between her hands . 
Why do you let them torment me ? Tell me what it means ! Then I spoke , gazing into her eyes . 
God forgive me , madame ! I said . 
I am not the King ! I felt her hands clutch my cheeks . 
She gazed at me as never man's face was scanned yet . 
And I , silent again , saw wonder born , and doubt grow , and terror spring to life as she looked . 
Sapt laid his hand on my arm . 
I looked up in his face . 
And I laid her softly on the ground , and stood up , looking on her , cursing heaven that young Rupert's sword had spared me for this sharper pang . 
CHAPTER If love were all ! It was night , and I was in the cell wherein the King had lain in the Castle of Zenda . 
The great pipe that Rupert of Hentzau had nicknamed Jacob's Ladder was gone , and the lights in the room across the moat twinkled in the darkness . 
All was still the din and clash of strife were gone . 
I had spent the day hidden in the forest , from the time when Fritz had led me off , leaving Sapt with the princess . 
Under cover of dusk , muffled up , I had been brought to the Castle and lodged where I now lay . 
Though three men had died there two of them by my hand I was not troubled by ghosts . 
He told me that the King was doing well , that he had seen the princess that she and he , Sapt and Fritz , had been long together . 
Habit grows so quick , that only by an effort did I recollect that it floated no longer for me . 
Presently Fritz von Tarlenheim came into the room . 
I was standing then by the window the glass was opened , and I was idly fingering the cement which clung to the masonry where Jacob's Ladder had been . 
He told me briefly that the King wanted me , and together we crossed the drawbridge and entered the room that had been Black Michael's . 
The King was lying there in bed our doctor from Tarlenheim was in attendance on him , and whispered to me that my visit must be brief . 
The King held out his hand and shook mine . 
Fritz and the doctor withdrew to the window . 
I took the King's ring from my finger and placed it on his . 
I have tried not to dishonour it , sire , said I. I can't talk much to you , he said , in a weak voice . 
I have had a great fight with Sapt and the Marshal for we have told the Marshal everything . 
But they tell me I must not , and that the secret must be kept if kept it can be . 
They are right , sire . 
My work here is done . 
Yes , it is done , as no man but you could have done it . 
When they see me again , I shall have my beard on I shall yes , faith , I shall be wasted with sickness . 
They will not wonder that the King looks changed in face . 
Cousin , I shall try to let them find him changed in nothing else . 
You have shown me how to play the King . 
Sire , said I. I can take no praise from you . 
It is by the narrowest grace of God that I was not a worse traitor than your brother . 
He turned inquiring eyes on me but a sick man shrinks from puzzles , and he had no strength to question me . 
His glance fell on Flavia's ring , which I wore . 
I thought he would question me about it but , after fingering it idly , he let his head fall on his pillow . 
I don't know when I shall see you again , he said faintly , almost listlessly . 
If I can ever serve you again , sire , I answered . 
Fritz came with the doctor . 
I kissed the King's hand , and let Fritz lead me away . 
I have never seen the King since . 
Where are we going ? I asked . 
Looking away from me , Fritz answered She has sent for you . 
When it is over , come back to the bridge . 
I'll wait for you there . 
What does she want ? said I , breathing quickly . 
Does she know everything ? Yes , everything . 
He opened a door , and gently pushing me in , closed it behind me . 
I found myself in a drawing room , small and richly furnished . 
At first I thought that I was alone , for the light that came from a pair of shaded candles on the mantelpiece was very dim . 
But presently I discerned a woman's figure standing by the window . 
I knew it was the princess , and I walked up to her , fell on one knee , and carried the hand that hung by her side to my lips . 
She neither moved nor spoke . 
Then she darted to me , taking hold of me . 
How hot your head is , she said , sinking on her knees by me . 
With all my life and heart , said I , as she clung to me . 
Always , from the first moment I saw you in the Cathedral ! There has been but one woman in the world to me and there will be no other . 
Ah , no , no ! she cried . 
Not tonight ! I must go tonight , before more people have seen me . 
And how would you have me stay , sweetheart , except ? If I could come with you ! she whispered very low . 
My God ! said I roughly , don't talk about that ! and I thrust her a little back from me . 
Why not ? I love you . 
You are as good a gentleman as the King ! Then I was false to all that I should have held by . 
For I caught her in my arms and prayed her , in words that I will not write , to come with me , daring all Ruritania to take her from me . 
And for a while she listened , with wondering , dazzled eyes . 
But as her eyes looked on me , I grew ashamed , and my voice died away in broken murmurs and stammerings , and at last I was silent . 
So we rested a long time . 
I am mad ! I said sullenly . 
I love your madness , dear , she answered . 
Her face was away from me , but I caught the sparkle of a tear on her cheek . 
I clutched the sofa with my hand and held myself there . 
Is love the only thing ? she asked , in low , sweet tones that seemed to bring a calm even to my wrung heart . 
It gives me shame now to think that I would not help her . 
She came near me and laid her hand on my shoulder . 
I put my hand up and held hers . 
I know people write and talk as if it were . 
Perhaps , for some , Fate lets it be . 
Ah , if I were one of them ! But if love had been the only thing , you would have let the King die in his cell . 
Honour binds a woman too , Rudolf . 
My honour lies in being true to my country and my House . 
I don't know why God has let me love you but I know that I must stay . 
But you must go and I must stay . 
Perhaps I must do what it kills me to think of doing . 
I knew what she meant , and a shiver ran through me . 
But I could not utterly fail her . 
I rose and took her hand . 
Do what you will , or what you must , I said . 
I think God shows His purposes to such as you . 
My part is lighter for your ring shall be on my finger and your heart in mine , and no touch save of your lips will ever be on mine . 
So , may God comfort you , my darling ! There struck on our ears the sound of singing . 
The priests in the chapel were singing masses for the souls of those who lay dead . 
They seemed to chant a requiem over our buried joy , to pray forgiveness for our love that would not die . 
The soft , sweet , pitiful music rose and fell as we stood opposite one another , her hands in mine . 
My queen and my beauty ! said I. My lover and true knight ! she said . 
Perhaps we shall never see one another again . 
Rapidly I walked down to the bridge . 
Sapt and Fritz were waiting for me . 
The train was not quite due , and I walked with them in a meadow by a little brook while we waited for it . 
They promised to send me all news they overwhelmed me with kindness even old Sapt was touched to gentleness , while Fritz was half unmanned . 
I listened in a kind of dream to all they said . 
Rudolf ! Rudolf ! Rudolf ! still rang in my ears a burden of sorrow and of love . 
Then I held out a hand to each of them . 
We are all but half men this morning , said I , smiling . 
But we have been men , eh , Sapt and Fritz , old friends ? We have run a good course between us . 
We have defeated traitors and set the King firm on his throne , said Sapt . 
The devil has his share in most things , said he . 
The people at the station looked curiously at the tall man with the muffled face , but we took no notice of their glances . 
I stood with my two friends and waited till the train came up to us . 
They would have been disappointed to know that . 
Yet had they known all they would have looked more curiously still . 
As soon as I had reached my quarters , I sent an apparently careless postcard to my brother , announcing my good health and prospective return . 
That would serve to satisfy the inquiries as to my whereabouts , which were probably still vexing the Prefect of the Police of Strelsau . 
The lady , it appeared , was back in Paris , but was living in great seclusion a fact for which gossip found no difficulty in accounting . 
But it's coming on very well again . 
What ? Then I wasn't so far out ! If not the fair Antoinette , there was a charmer ? There is always a charmer , said I , sententiously . 
an absolutely imaginary love affair , attended with the proper soupcon of scandal , which had kept me all this time in the peaceful regions of the Tyrol . 
, as to the true course of events in Ruritania , the plots and counterplots . 
a woman disguised as a man and that strife between the King and his brother for this imaginary lady's favour was at the bottom of their quarrel . 
Perhaps it was Madame de Mauban herself , I suggested . 
No ! said George decisively , Antoinette de Mauban was jealous of her , and betrayed the duke to the King for that reason . 
And , to confirm what I say , it's well known that the Princess Flavia is now extremely cold to the King , after having been most affectionate . 
At this point I changed the subject , and escaped from George's inspired delusions . 
But if diplomatists never know anything more than they had succeeded in finding out in this instance , they appear to me to be somewhat expensive luxuries . 
While in Paris I wrote to Antoinette , though I did not venture to call upon her . 
She expressed the intention of settling in the country , and withdrawing herself entirely from society . 
I had one more battle left to fight a battle that would , I knew , be severe , and was bound to end in my complete defeat . 
It may be supposed , then , that I presented myself in Park Lane in a shamefaced , sheepish fashion . 
On the whole , my reception was not so alarming as I had feared . 
It turned out that I had done , not what Rose wished , but the next best thing what she prophesied . 
She had declared that I should make no notes , record no observations , gather no materials . 
My brother , on the other hand , had been weak enough to maintain that a serious resolve had at length animated me . 
We've wasted a lot of time trying to find you , she said . 
I know you have , said I. Half our ambassadors have led weary lives on my account . 
George Featherly told me so . 
But why should you have been anxious ? I can take care of myself . 
Oh , it wasn't that , she cried scornfully , but I wanted to tell you about Sir Jacob Borrodaile . 
You know , he's got an Embassy at least , he will have in a month and he wrote to say he hoped you would go with him . 
Where's he going to ? He's going to succeed Lord Topham at Strelsau , said she . 
You couldn't have a nicer place , short of Paris . 
Strelsau ! H'm ! said I , glancing at my brother . 
Oh , THAT doesn't matter ! exclaimed Rose impatiently . 
Now , you will go , won't you ? I don't know that I care about it ! Oh , you're too exasperating ! And I don't think I can go to Strelsau . 
My dear Rose , would it be suitable ? Oh , nobody remembers that horrid old story now . 
Upon this , I took out of my pocket a portrait of the King of Ruritania . 
It had been taken a month or two before he ascended the throne . 
Don't you think they might recall the story , if I appeared at the Court of Ruritania ? My sister in law looked at the portrait , and then at me . 
Good gracious ! she said , and flung the photograph down on the table . 
What do you say , Bob ? I asked . 
Burlesdon got up , went to a corner of the room , and searched in a heap of newspapers . 
Presently he came back with a copy of the Illustrated London News . 
Opening the paper , he displayed a double page engraving of the Coronation of Rudolf V at Strelsau . 
The photograph and the picture he laid side by side . 
I sat at the table fronting them and , as I looked , I grew absorbed . 
Long I looked and eagerly . 
I was roused by my brother's hand on my shoulder . 
He was gazing down at me with a puzzled expression . 
It's a remarkable likeness , you see , said I. I really think I had better not go to Ruritania . 
Rose , though half convinced , would not abandon her position . 
It's just an excuse , she said pettishly . 
You don't want to do anything . 
Why , you might become an ambassador ! I don't think I want to be an ambassador , said I. It's more than you ever will be , she retorted . 
That is very likely true , but it is not more than I have been . 
The idea of being an ambassador could scarcely dazzle me . 
I had been a king ! So pretty Rose left us in dudgeon and Burlesdon , lighting a cigarette , looked at me still with that curious gaze . 
That picture in the paper he said . 
Well , what of it ? It shows that the King of Ruritania and your humble servant are as like as two peas . 
My brother shook his head . 
I suppose so , he said . 
But I should know you from the man in the photograph . 
My brother is a good man and true so that , for all that he is a married man and mighty fond of his wife , he should know any secret of mine . 
But this secret was not mine , and I could not tell it to him . 
I don't think it's so much like me as the photograph , said I boldly . 
But , anyhow , Bob , I won't go to Strelsau . 
No , don't go to Strelsau , Rudolf , said he . 
And whether he suspects anything , or has a glimmer of the truth , I do not know . 
If he has , he keeps it to himself , and he and I never refer to it . 
And we let Sir Jacob Borrodaile find another attache . 
Since all these events whose history I have set down happened I have lived a very quiet life at a small house which I have taken in the country . 
The ordinary ambitions and aims of men in my position seem to me dull and unattractive . 
I have little fancy for the whirl of society , and none for the jostle of politics . 
Lady Burlesdon utterly despairs of me my neighbours think me an indolent , dreamy , unsociable fellow . 
Such is the tissue of my thoughts as , with gun or rod in hand , I wander through the woods or by the side of the stream . 
Thus led , my broodings leave the future , and turn back on the past . 
wickedness , yet turns women's hearts to softness and men's to fear and hate . 
One break comes every year in my quiet life . 
Then I go to Dresden , and there I am met by my dear friend and companion , Fritz von Tarlenheim . 
Last time , his pretty wife Helga came , and a lusty crowing baby with her . 
And the like I send back by him . 
That message , and the wearing of the rings , are all that now bind me and the Queen of Ruritania . 
Shall I see her face again the pale face and the glorious hair ? Of that I know nothing Fate has no hint , my heart no presentiment . 
In this world , perhaps nay , it is likely never . 
