ALICE'S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND Lewis Carroll THE MILLENNIUM FULCRUM EDITION . 
In another moment down went Alice after it , never once considering how in the world she was to get out again . 
Down , down , down . 
Would the fall NEVER come to an end ! I wonder how many miles I've fallen by this time ? she said aloud . 
I must be getting somewhere near the centre of the earth . 
but I shall have to ask them what the name of the country is , you know . 
And what an ignorant little girl she'll think me for asking ! No , it'll never do to ask perhaps I shall see it written up somewhere . 
Down , down , down . 
There was nothing else to do , so Alice soon began talking again . 
I hope they'll remember her saucer of milk at tea time . 
Oh , how I wish I could shut up like a telescope ! I think I could , if I only know how to begin . 
For , you see , so many out of the way things had happened lately , that Alice had begun to think that very few things indeed were really impossible . 
and round the neck of the bottle was a paper label , with the words DRINK ME' beautifully printed on it in large letters . 
It was all very well to say Drink me , but the wise little Alice was not going to do THAT in a hurry . 
she very soon finished it off . 
What a curious feeling ! said Alice I must be shutting up like a telescope . 
So she set to work , and very soon finished off the cake . 
And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it . 
HEARTHRUG , NEAR THE FENDER , . 
After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the distance , and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming . 
How CAN I have done that ? she thought . 
I must be growing small again . 
Her first idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea , and in that case I can go back by railway , she said to herself . 
However , she soon made out that she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when she was nine feet high . 
I wish I hadn't cried so much ! said Alice , as she swam about , trying to find her way out . 
So she began again Ou est ma chatte ? which was the first sentence in her French lesson book . 
The Mouse gave a sudden leap out of the water , and seemed to quiver all over with fright . 
Oh , I beg your pardon ! cried Alice hastily , afraid that she had hurt the poor animal's feelings . 
I quite forgot you didn't like cats . 
Not like cats ! cried the Mouse , in a shrill , passionate voice . 
Would YOU like cats if you were me ? Well , perhaps not , said Alice in a soothing tone don't be angry about it . 
And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah I think you'd take a fancy to cats if you could only see her . 
We won't talk about her any more if you'd rather not . 
We indeed ! cried the Mouse , who was trembling down to the end of his tail . 
Alice led the way , and the whole party swam to the shore . 
Alice kept her eyes anxiously fixed on it , for she felt sure she would catch a bad cold if she did not get dry very soon . 
Ahem ! said the Mouse with an important air , are you all ready ? This is the driest thing I know . 
Edwin and Morcar , the earls of Mercia and Northumbria Ugh ! said the Lory , with a shiver . 
I beg your pardon ! said the Mouse , frowning , but very politely Did you speak ? Not I ! said the Lory hastily . 
I thought you did , said the Mouse . 
Edwin and Morcar , the earls of Mercia and Northumbria , declared for him and even Stigand , the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury , found it advisable Found WHAT ? said the Duck . 
Found IT , the Mouse replied rather crossly of course you know what it means . 
I know what it means well enough , when I find a thing , said the Duck it's generally a frog or a worm . 
William's conduct at first was moderate . 
But the insolence of his Normans How are you getting on now , my dear ? it continued , turning to Alice as it spoke . 
As wet as ever , said Alice in a melancholy tone it doesn't seem to dry me at all . 
What I was going to say , said the Dodo in an offended tone , was , that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus race . 
Why , said the Dodo , the best way to explain it is to do it . 
and then all the party were placed along the course , here and there . 
, while the rest waited in silence . 
At last the Dodo said , EVERYBODY has won , and all must have prizes . 
But who is to give the prizes ? quite a chorus of voices asked . 
, and handed them round as prizes . 
There was exactly one a piece all round . 
But she must have a prize herself , you know , said the Mouse . 
Of course , the Dodo replied very gravely . 
What else have you got in your pocket ? he went on , turning to Alice . 
Only a thimble , said Alice sadly . 
Hand it over here , said the Dodo . 
However , it was over at last , and they sat down again in a ring , and begged the Mouse to tell them something more . 
Mine is a long and a sad tale ! said the Mouse , turning to Alice , and sighing . 
Come , I'll take no denial We must have a trial For really this morning I've nothing to do . 
Said the mouse to the cur , Such a trial , dear Sir , With no jury or judge , would be wasting our breath . 
I'll be judge , I'll be jury , Said cunning old Fury I'll try the whole cause , and condemn you to death . 
You are not attending ! said the Mouse to Alice severely . 
A knot ! said Alice , always ready to make herself useful , and looking anxiously about her . 
Oh , do let me help to undo it ! I shall do nothing of the sort , said the Mouse , getting up and walking away . 
You insult me by talking such nonsense ! I didn't mean it ! pleaded poor Alice . 
But you're so easily offended , you know ! The Mouse only growled in reply . 
You're enough to try the patience of an oyster ! I wish I had our Dinah here , I know I do ! said Alice aloud , addressing nobody in particular . 
She'd soon fetch it back ! And who is Dinah , if I might venture to ask the question ? said the Lory . 
Alice replied eagerly , for she was always ready to talk about her pet Dinah's our cat . 
I wish I hadn't mentioned Dinah ! she said to herself in a melancholy tone . 
He took me for his housemaid , she said to herself as she ran . 
How surprised he'll be when he finds out who I am ! But I'd better take him his fan and gloves that is , if I can find them . 
As she said this , she came upon a neat little house , on the door of which was a bright brass plate with the name W. RABBIT' engraved upon it . 
There was no label this time with the words DRINK ME , but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it to her lips . 
I know SOMETHING interesting is sure to happen , she said to herself , whenever I eat or drink anything so I'll just see what this bottle does . 
It was much pleasanter at home , thought poor Alice , when one wasn't always growing larger and smaller , and being ordered about by mice and rabbits . 
Mary Ann ! Mary Ann ! said the voice . 
Fetch me my gloves this moment ! Then came a little pattering of feet on the stairs . 
Alice heard it say to itself Then I'll go round and get in at the window . 
This time there were TWO little shrieks , and more sounds of broken glass . 
What a number of cucumber frames there must be ! thought Alice . 
scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close above her then , saying to herself This is Bill , she gave one sharp kick , and waited to see what would happen next . 
We must burn the house down ! said the Rabbit's voice and Alice called out as loud as she could , If you do . 
After a minute or two , they began moving about again , and Alice heard the Rabbit say , A barrowful will do , to begin with . 
I'll put a stop to this , she said to herself , and shouted out , You'd better not do that again ! which produced another dead silence . 
Alice noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all turning into little cakes as they lay on the floor , and a bright idea came into her head . 
So she swallowed one of the cakes , and was delighted to find that she began shrinking directly . 
As soon as she was small enough to get through the door , she ran out of the house , and found quite a crowd of little animals and birds waiting outside . 
The poor little Lizard , Bill , was in the middle , being held up by two guinea pigs , who were giving it something out of a bottle . 
They all made a rush at Alice the moment she appeared but she ran off as hard as she could , and soon found herself safe in a thick wood . 
I think that will be the best plan . 
An enormous puppy was looking down at her with large round eyes , and feebly stretching out one paw , trying to touch her . 
Who are YOU ? said the Caterpillar . 
This was not an encouraging opening for a conversation . 
What do you mean by that ? said the Caterpillar sternly . 
Explain yourself ! I can't explain MYSELF , I'm afraid , sir' said Alice , because I'm not myself , you see . 
I don't see , said the Caterpillar . 
It isn't , said the Caterpillar . 
Well , perhaps your feelings may be different , said Alice all I know is , it would feel very queer to ME . 
You ! said the Caterpillar contemptuously . 
Who are YOU ? Which brought them back again to the beginning of the conversation . 
Why ? said the Caterpillar . 
Come back ! the Caterpillar called after her . 
I've something important to say ! This sounded promising , certainly Alice turned and came back again . 
Keep your temper , said the Caterpillar . 
Is that all ? said Alice , swallowing down her anger as well as she could . 
No , said the Caterpillar . 
Alice thought she might as well wait , as she had nothing else to do , and perhaps after all it might tell her something worth hearing . 
Well , I've tried to say HOW DOTH THE LITTLE BUSY BEE , but it all came different ! Alice replied in a very melancholy voice . 
Repeat , YOU ARE OLD , FATHER WILLIAM , said the Caterpillar . 
Not QUITE right , I'm afraid , said Alice , timidly some of the words have got altered . 
It is wrong from beginning to end , said the Caterpillar decidedly , and there was silence for some minutes . 
The Caterpillar was the first to speak . 
What size do you want to be ? it asked . 
Oh , I'm not particular as to size , Alice hastily replied only one doesn't like changing so often , you know . 
I DON'T know , said the Caterpillar . 
Alice said nothing she had never been so much contradicted in her life before , and she felt that she was losing her temper . 
Are you content now ? said the Caterpillar . 
Well , I should like to be a LITTLE larger , sir , if you wouldn't mind , said Alice three inches is such a wretched height to be . 
But I'm not used to it ! pleaded poor Alice in a piteous tone . 
This time Alice waited patiently until it chose to speak again . 
In a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth and yawned once or twice , and shook itself . 
One side of WHAT ? The other side of WHAT ? thought Alice to herself . 
Of the mushroom , said the Caterpillar , just as if she had asked it aloud and in another moment it was out of sight . 
However , at last she stretched her arms round it as far as they would go , and broke off a bit of the edge with each hand . 
What CAN all that green stuff be ? said Alice . 
Serpent ! screamed the Pigeon . 
I'm NOT a serpent ! said Alice indignantly . 
I'm a I'm a Well ! WHAT are you ? said the Pigeon . 
A likely story indeed ! said the Pigeon in a tone of the deepest contempt . 
I don't believe it , said the Pigeon but if they do , why then they're a kind of serpent , that's all I can say . 
Well , be off , then ! said the Pigeon in a sulky tone , as it settled down again into its nest . 
and rapped loudly at the door with his knuckles . 
She felt very curious to know what it was all about , and crept a little way out of the wood to listen . 
An invitation from the Queen to play croquet . 
The Frog Footman repeated , in the same solemn tone , only changing the order of the words a little , From the Queen . 
An invitation for the Duchess to play croquet . 
Then they both bowed low , and their curls got entangled together . 
Alice went timidly up to the door , and knocked . 
There's no sort of use in knocking , said the Footman , and that for two reasons . 
First , because I'm on the same side of the door as you are secondly , because they're making such a noise inside , no one could possibly hear you . 
For instance , if you were INSIDE , you might knock , and I could let you out , you know . 
He was looking up into the sky all the time he was speaking , and this Alice thought decidedly uncivil . 
But perhaps he can't help it , she said to herself his eyes are so VERY nearly at the top of his head . 
But at any rate he might answer questions . 
How am I to get in ? she repeated , aloud . 
or next day , maybe , the Footman continued in the same tone , exactly as if nothing had happened . 
How am I to get in ? asked Alice again , in a louder tone . 
ARE you to get in at all ? said the Footman . 
That's the first question , you know . 
It was , no doubt only Alice did not like to be told so . 
It's really dreadful , she muttered to herself , the way all the creatures argue . 
It's enough to drive one crazy ! The Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for repeating his remark , with variations . 
I shall sit here , he said , on and off , for days and days . 
But what am I to do ? said Alice . 
Anything you like , said the Footman , and began whistling . 
Oh , there's no use in talking to him , said Alice desperately he's perfectly idiotic ! And she opened the door and went in . 
There's certainly too much pepper in that soup ! Alice said to herself , as well as she could for sneezing . 
There was certainly too much of it in the air . 
Even the Duchess sneezed occasionally and as for the baby , it was sneezing and howling alternately without a moment's pause . 
The only things in the kitchen that did not sneeze , were the cook , and a large cat which was sitting on the hearth and grinning from ear to ear . 
They all can , said the Duchess and most of 'em do . 
I don't know of any that do , Alice said very politely , feeling quite pleased to have got into a conversation . 
You don't know much , said the Duchess and that's a fact . 
Alice did not at all like the tone of this remark , and thought it would be as well to introduce some other subject of conversation . 
Oh , PLEASE mind what you're doing ! cried Alice , jumping up and down in an agony of terror . 
Oh , there goes his PRECIOUS nose' as an unusually large saucepan flew close by it , and very nearly carried it off . 
If everybody minded their own business , the Duchess said in a hoarse growl , the world would go round a deal faster than it does . 
Which would NOT be an advantage , said Alice , who felt very glad to get an opportunity of showing off a little of her knowledge . 
Wow ! wow ! wow ! Here ! you may nurse it a bit , if you like ! the Duchess said to Alice , flinging the baby at her as she spoke . 
I must go and get ready to play croquet with the Queen , and she hurried out of the room . 
The cook threw a frying pan after her as she went out , but it just missed her . 
she carried it out into the open air . 
Don't grunt , said Alice that's not at all a proper way of expressing yourself . 
The baby grunted again , and Alice looked very anxiously into its face to see what was the matter with it . 
But perhaps it was only sobbing , she thought , and looked into its eyes again , to see if there were any tears . 
No , there were no tears . 
If you're going to turn into a pig , my dear , said Alice , seriously , I'll have nothing more to do with you . 
, and they went on for some while in silence . 
So she set the little creature down , and felt quite relieved to see it trot away quietly into the wood . 
If it had grown up , she said to herself , it would have made a dreadfully ugly child but it makes rather a handsome pig , I think . 
The Cat only grinned when it saw Alice . 
It looked good natured , she thought still it had VERY long claws and a great many teeth , so she felt that it ought to be treated with respect . 
Cheshire Puss , she began , rather timidly , as she did not at all know whether it would like the name however , it only grinned a little wider . 
Come , it's pleased so far , thought Alice , and she went on . 
Would you tell me , please , which way I ought to go from here ? That depends a good deal on where you want to get to , said the Cat . 
I don't much care where said Alice . 
Then it doesn't matter which way you go , said the Cat . 
so long as I get SOMEWHERE , Alice added as an explanation . 
Oh , you're sure to do that , said the Cat , if you only walk long enough . 
Alice felt that this could not be denied , so she tried another question . 
Visit either you like they're both mad . 
But I don't want to go among mad people , Alice remarked . 
Oh , you can't help that , said the Cat we're all mad here . 
How do you know I'm mad ? said Alice . 
You must be , said the Cat , or you wouldn't have come here . 
You grant that ? I suppose so , said Alice . 
Well , then , the Cat went on , you see , a dog growls when it's angry , and wags its tail when it's pleased . 
Now I growl when I'm pleased , and wag my tail when I'm angry . 
I call it purring , not growling , said Alice . 
Call it what you like , said the Cat . 
Do you play croquet with the Queen to day ? I should like it very much , said Alice , but I haven't been invited yet . 
You'll see me there , said the Cat , and vanished . 
Alice was not much surprised at this , she was getting so used to queer things happening . 
While she was looking at the place where it had been , it suddenly appeared again . 
By the bye , what became of the baby ? said the Cat . 
I'd nearly forgotten to ask . 
It turned into a pig , Alice quietly said , just as if it had come back in a natural way . 
I thought it would , said the Cat , and vanished again . 
As she said this , she looked up , and there was the Cat again , sitting on a branch of a tree . 
Did you say pig , or fig ? said the Cat . 
I said pig , replied Alice and I wish you wouldn't keep appearing and vanishing so suddenly you make one quite giddy . 
Very uncomfortable for the Dormouse , thought Alice only , as it's asleep , I suppose it doesn't mind . 
The table was a large one , but the three were all crowded together at one corner of it No room ! No room ! they cried out when they saw Alice coming . 
There's PLENTY of room ! said Alice indignantly , and she sat down in a large arm chair at one end of the table . 
Have some wine , the March Hare said in an encouraging tone . 
Alice looked all round the table , but there was nothing on it but tea . 
I don't see any wine , she remarked . 
There isn't any , said the March Hare . 
Then it wasn't very civil of you to offer it , said Alice angrily . 
It wasn't very civil of you to sit down without being invited , said the March Hare . 
I didn't know it was YOUR table , said Alice it's laid for a great many more than three . 
Your hair wants cutting , said the Hatter . 
He had been looking at Alice for some time with great curiosity , and this was his first speech . 
You should learn not to make personal remarks , Alice said with some severity it's very rude . 
I'm glad they've begun asking riddles . 
I believe I can guess that , she added aloud . 
Do you mean that you think you can find out the answer to it ? said the March Hare . 
Exactly so , said Alice . 
Then you should say what you mean , the March Hare went on . 
I do , Alice hastily replied at least at least I mean what I say that's the same thing , you know . 
Not the same thing a bit ! said the Hatter . 
The Hatter was the first to break the silence . 
Alice considered a little , and then said The fourth . 
Two days wrong ! sighed the Hatter . 
I told you butter wouldn't suit the works ! he added looking angrily at the March Hare . 
It was the BEST butter , the March Hare meekly replied . 
Yes , but some crumbs must have got in as well , the Hatter grumbled you shouldn't have put it in with the bread knife . 
Alice had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity . 
What a funny watch ! she remarked . 
It tells the day of the month , and doesn't tell what o'clock it is ! Why should it ? muttered the Hatter . 
Does YOUR watch tell you what year it is ? Of course not , Alice replied very readily but that's because it stays the same year for such a long time together . 
Which is just the case with MINE , said the Hatter . 
The Hatter's remark seemed to have no sort of meaning in it , and yet it was certainly English . 
I don't quite understand you , she said , as politely as she could . 
The Dormouse is asleep again , said the Hatter , and he poured a little hot tea upon its nose . 
The Dormouse shook its head impatiently , and said , without opening its eyes , Of course , of course just what I was going to remark myself . 
Have you guessed the riddle yet ? the Hatter said , turning to Alice again . 
No , I give it up , Alice replied what's the answer ? I haven't the slightest idea , said the Hatter . 
Nor I , said the March Hare . 
I think you might do something better with the time , she said , than waste it in asking riddles that have no answers . 
If you knew Time as well as I do , said the Hatter , you wouldn't talk about wasting IT . 
I don't know what you mean , said Alice . 
Of course you don't ! the Hatter said , tossing his head contemptuously . 
I dare say you never even spoke to Time ! Perhaps not , Alice cautiously replied but I know I have to beat time when I learn music . 
Ah ! that accounts for it , said the Hatter . 
Now , if you only kept on good terms with him , he'd do almost anything you liked with the clock . 
That would be grand , certainly , said Alice thoughtfully but then I shouldn't be hungry for it , you know . 
Not at first , perhaps , said the Hatter but you could keep it to half past one as long as you liked . 
Is that the way YOU manage ? Alice asked . 
The Hatter shook his head mournfully . 
Not I ! he replied . 
It goes on , you know , the Hatter continued , in this way Up above the world you fly , Like a tea tray in the sky . 
And ever since that , the Hatter went on in a mournful tone , he won't do a thing I ask ! It's always six o'clock now . 
A bright idea came into Alice's head . 
Is that the reason so many tea things are put out here ? she asked . 
Yes , that's it , said the Hatter with a sigh it's always tea time , and we've no time to wash the things between whiles . 
Then you keep moving round , I suppose ? said Alice . 
Exactly so , said the Hatter as the things get used up . 
But what happens when you come to the beginning again ? Alice ventured to ask . 
Suppose we change the subject , the March Hare interrupted , yawning . 
I'm getting tired of this . 
I vote the young lady tells us a story . 
I'm afraid I don't know one , said Alice , rather alarmed at the proposal . 
Then the Dormouse shall ! they both cried . 
Wake up , Dormouse ! And they pinched it on both sides at once . 
The Dormouse slowly opened his eyes . 
I wasn't asleep , he said in a hoarse , feeble voice I heard every word you fellows were saying . 
Tell us a story ! said the March Hare . 
Yes , please do ! pleaded Alice . 
And be quick about it , added the Hatter , or you'll be asleep again before it's done . 
They lived on treacle , said the Dormouse , after thinking a minute or two . 
They couldn't have done that , you know , Alice gently remarked they'd have been ill . 
So they were , said the Dormouse VERY ill . 
I've had nothing yet , Alice replied in an offended tone , so I can't take more . 
You mean you can't take LESS , said the Hatter it's very easy to take MORE than nothing . 
Nobody asked YOUR opinion , said Alice . 
Who's making personal remarks now ? the Hatter asked triumphantly . 
Alice did not quite know what to say to this so she helped herself to some tea and bread and butter , and then turned to the Dormouse , and repeated her question . 
Why did they live at the bottom of a well ? The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it , and then said , It was a treacle well . 
No , please go on ! Alice said very humbly I won't interrupt again . 
I dare say there may be ONE . 
One , indeed ! said the Dormouse indignantly . 
However , he consented to go on . 
And so these three little sisters they were learning to draw , you know What did they draw ? said Alice , quite forgetting her promise . 
Treacle , said the Dormouse , without considering at all this time . 
I want a clean cup , interrupted the Hatter let's all move one place on . 
He moved on as he spoke , and the Dormouse followed him the March Hare moved into the Dormouse's place , and Alice rather unwillingly took the place of the March Hare . 
Alice did not wish to offend the Dormouse again , so she began very cautiously But I don't understand . 
Of course they were' , said the Dormouse well in . 
This answer so confused poor Alice , that she let the Dormouse go on for some time without interrupting it . 
Why not ? said the March Hare . 
At any rate I'll never go THERE again ! said Alice as she picked her way through the wood . 
That's very curious ! she thought . 
I think I may as well go in at once . 
Once more she found herself in the long hall , and close to the little glass table . 
Now , I'll manage better this time , she said to herself , and began by taking the little golden key , and unlocking the door that led into the garden . 
On which Seven looked up and said , That's right , Five ! Always lay the blame on others ! YOU'D better not talk ! said Five . 
I heard the Queen say only yesterday you deserved to be beheaded ! What for ? said the one who had spoken first . 
That's none of YOUR business , Two ! said Seven . 
Yes , it IS his business ! said Five , and I'll tell him it was for bringing the cook tulip roots instead of onions . 
Would you tell me , said Alice , a little timidly , why you are painting those roses ? Five and Seven said nothing , but looked at Two . 
There was a sound of many footsteps , and Alice looked round , eager to see the Queen . 
After these came the royal children there were ten of them , and the little dears came jumping merrily along hand in hand , in couples they were all ornamented with hearts . 
Then followed the Knave of Hearts , carrying the King's crown on a crimson velvet cushion and , last of all this grand procession , came THE KING AND QUEEN OF HEARTS . 
How should I know ? said Alice , surprised at her own courage . 
It's no business of MINE . 
Leave off that ! screamed the Queen . 
Off with their heads ! and the procession moved on , three of the soldiers remaining behind to execute the unfortunate gardeners , who ran to Alice for protection . 
You shan't be beheaded ! said Alice , and she put them into a large flower pot that stood near . 
The three soldiers wandered about for a minute or two , looking for them , and then quietly marched off after the others . 
Are their heads off ? shouted the Queen . 
Their heads are gone , if it please your Majesty ! the soldiers shouted in reply . 
That's right ! shouted the Queen . 
Can you play croquet ? The soldiers were silent , and looked at Alice , as the question was evidently meant for her . 
Come on , then ! roared the Queen , and Alice joined the procession , wondering very much what would happen next . 
It's it's a very fine day ! said a timid voice at her side . 
She was walking by the White Rabbit , who was peeping anxiously into her face . 
Very , said Alice where's the Duchess ? Hush ! Hush ! said the Rabbit in a low , hurried tone . 
He looked anxiously over his shoulder as he spoke , and then raised himself upon tiptoe , put his mouth close to her ear , and whispered She's under sentence of execution . 
What for ? said Alice . 
Did you say What a pity ! ? the Rabbit asked . 
No , I didn't , said Alice I don't think it's at all a pity . 
I said What for ? She boxed the Queen's ears the Rabbit began . 
Alice gave a little scream of laughter . 
Oh , hush ! the Rabbit whispered in a frightened tone . 
How are you getting on ? said the Cat , as soon as there was mouth enough for it to speak with . 
Alice waited till the eyes appeared , and then nodded . 
It's no use speaking to it , she thought , till its ears have come , or at least one of them . 
The Cat seemed to think that there was enough of it now in sight , and no more of it appeared . 
The Queen smiled and passed on . 
Who ARE you talking to ? said the King , going up to Alice , and looking at the Cat's head with great curiosity . 
It's a friend of mine a Cheshire Cat , said Alice allow me to introduce it . 
I don't like the look of it at all , said the King however , it may kiss my hand if it likes . 
I'd rather not , the Cat remarked . 
Don't be impertinent , said the King , and don't look at me like that ! He got behind Alice as he spoke . 
A cat may look at a king , said Alice . 
I've read that in some book , but I don't remember where . 
Off with his head ! she said , without even looking round . 
I'll fetch the executioner myself , said the King eagerly , and he hurried off . 
Alice thought she might as well go back , and see how the game was going on , as she heard the Queen's voice in the distance , screaming with passion . 
So she went in search of her hedgehog . 
So she tucked it away under her arm , that it might not escape again , and went back for a little more conversation with her friend . 
The King's argument was , that anything that had a head could be beheaded , and that you weren't to talk nonsense . 
The Queen's argument was , that if something wasn't done about it in less than no time she'd have everybody executed , all round . 
Alice could think of nothing else to say but It belongs to the Duchess you'd better ask HER about it . 
She's in prison , the Queen said to the executioner fetch her here . 
And the executioner went off like an arrow . 
, I won't have any pepper in my kitchen AT ALL . 
You're thinking about something , my dear , and that makes you forget to talk . 
I can't tell you just now what the moral of that is , but I shall remember it in a bit . 
Perhaps it hasn't one , Alice ventured to remark . 
Tut , tut , child ! said the Duchess . 
Everything's got a moral , if only you can find it . 
And she squeezed herself up closer to Alice's side as she spoke . 
However , she did not like to be rude , so she bore it as well as she could . 
The game's going on rather better now , she said , by way of keeping up the conversation a little . 
How fond she is of finding morals in things ! Alice thought to herself . 
Shall I try the experiment ? HE might bite , Alice cautiously replied , not feeling at all anxious to have the experiment tried . 
Very true , said the Duchess flamingoes and mustard both bite . 
And the moral of that is Birds of a feather flock together . 
Only mustard isn't a bird , Alice remarked . 
Right , as usual , said the Duchess what a clear way you have of putting things ! It's a mineral , I THINK , said Alice . 
Of course it is , said the Duchess , who seemed ready to agree to everything that Alice said there's a large mustard mine near here . 
And the moral of that is The more there is of mine , the less there is of yours . 
Oh , I know ! exclaimed Alice , who had not attended to this last remark , it's a vegetable . 
It doesn't look like one , but it is . 
I think I should understand that better , Alice said very politely , if I had it written down but I can't quite follow it as you say it . 
That's nothing to what I could say if I chose , the Duchess replied , in a pleased tone . 
Pray don't trouble yourself to say it any longer than that , said Alice . 
Oh , don't talk about trouble ! said the Duchess . 
I make you a present of everything I've said as yet . 
A cheap sort of present ! thought Alice . 
I'm glad they don't give birthday presents like that ! But she did not venture to say it out loud . 
Thinking again ? the Duchess asked , with another dig of her sharp little chin . 
I've a right to think , said Alice sharply , for she was beginning to feel a little worried . 
Alice looked up , and there stood the Queen in front of them , with her arms folded , frowning like a thunderstorm . 
A fine day , your Majesty ! the Duchess began in a low , weak voice . 
Let's go on with the game , the Queen said to Alice and Alice was too much frightened to say a word , but slowly followed her back to the croquet ground . 
Then the Queen left off , quite out of breath , and said to Alice , Have you seen the Mock Turtle yet ? No , said Alice . 
I don't even know what a Mock Turtle is . 
It's the thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from , said the Queen . 
I never saw one , or heard of one , said Alice . 
Come , THAT'S a good thing ! she said to herself , for she had felt quite unhappy at the number of executions the Queen had ordered . 
They very soon came upon a Gryphon , lying fast asleep in the sun . 
Up , lazy thing ! said the Queen , and take this young lady to see the Mock Turtle , and to hear his history . 
I must go back and see after some executions I have ordered' and she walked off , leaving Alice alone with the Gryphon . 
The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes then it watched the Queen till she was out of sight then it chuckled . 
What fun ! said the Gryphon , half to itself , half to Alice . 
What IS the fun ? said Alice . 
Why , SHE , said the Gryphon . 
It's all her fancy , that they never executes nobody , you know . 
Come on ! So they went up to the Mock Turtle , who looked at them with large eyes full of tears , but said nothing . 
This here young lady , said the Gryphon , she wants for to know your history , she do . 
I'll tell it her , said the Mock Turtle in a deep , hollow tone sit down , both of you , and don't speak a word till I've finished . 
So they sat down , and nobody spoke for some minutes . 
Alice thought to herself , I don't see how he can EVEN finish , if he doesn't begin . 
Once , said the Mock Turtle at last , with a deep sigh , I was a real Turtle . 
These words were followed by a very long silence , broken only by an occasional exclamation of Hjckrrh ! from the Gryphon , and the constant heavy sobbing of the Mock Turtle . 
When we were little , the Mock Turtle went on at last , more calmly , though still sobbing a little now and then , we went to school in the sea . 
The master was an old Turtle we used to call him Tortoise Why did you call him Tortoise , if he wasn't one ? Alice asked . 
You did , said the Mock Turtle . 
Hold your tongue ! added the Gryphon , before Alice could speak again . 
The Mock Turtle went on . 
With extras ? asked the Mock Turtle a little anxiously . 
Yes , said Alice , we learned French and music . 
And washing ? said the Mock Turtle . 
Certainly not ! said Alice indignantly . 
Ah ! then yours wasn't a really good school , said the Mock Turtle in a tone of great relief . 
Now at OURS they had at the end of the bill , French , music , AND WASHING extra . 
You couldn't have wanted it much , said Alice living at the bottom of the sea . 
I couldn't afford to learn it . 
said the Mock Turtle with a sigh . 
I only took the regular course . 
What was that ? inquired Alice . 
Reeling and Writhing , of course , to begin with , the Mock Turtle replied and then the different branches of Arithmetic Ambition , Distraction , Uglification , and Derision . 
I never heard of Uglification , Alice ventured to say . 
What is it ? The Gryphon lifted up both its paws in surprise . 
What ! Never heard of uglifying ! it exclaimed . 
You know what to beautify is , I suppose ? Yes , said Alice doubtfully it means to make anything prettier . 
Well , then , the Gryphon went on , if you don't know what to uglify is , you ARE a simpleton . 
What was THAT like ? said Alice . 
Well , I can't show it you myself , the Mock Turtle said I'm too stiff . 
And the Gryphon never learnt it . 
Hadn't time , said the Gryphon I went to the Classics master , though . 
He was an old crab , HE was . 
I never went to him , the Mock Turtle said with a sigh he taught Laughing and Grief , they used to say . 
So he did , so he did , said the Gryphon , sighing in his turn and both creatures hid their faces in their paws . 
And how many hours a day did you do lessons ? said Alice , in a hurry to change the subject . 
Ten hours the first day , said the Mock Turtle nine the next , and so on . 
What a curious plan ! exclaimed Alice . 
That's the reason they're called lessons , the Gryphon remarked because they lessen from day to day . 
This was quite a new idea to Alice , and she thought it over a little before she made her next remark . 
Then the eleventh day must have been a holiday ? Of course it was , said the Mock Turtle . 
And how did you manage on the twelfth ? Alice went on eagerly . 
That's enough about lessons , the Gryphon interrupted in a very decided tone tell her something about the games now . 
CHAPTER X The Lobster Quadrille The Mock Turtle sighed deeply , and drew the back of one flapper across his eyes . 
He looked at Alice , and tried to speak , but for a minute or two sobs choked his voice . 
Same as if he had a bone in his throat , said the Gryphon and it set to work shaking him and punching him in the back . 
so you can have no idea what a delightful thing a Lobster Quadrille is ! No , indeed , said Alice . 
What sort of a dance is it ? Why , said the Gryphon , you first form into a line along the sea shore Two lines ! cried the Mock Turtle . 
Seals , turtles , salmon , and so on then , when you've cleared all the jelly fish out of the way THAT generally takes some time , interrupted the Gryphon . 
you advance twice Each with a lobster as a partner ! cried the Gryphon . 
Of course , the Mock Turtle said advance twice , set to partners change lobsters , and retire in same order , continued the Gryphon . 
Then , you know , the Mock Turtle went on , you throw the The lobsters ! shouted the Gryphon , with a bound into the air . 
as far out to sea as you can Swim after them ! screamed the Gryphon . 
Turn a somersault in the sea ! cried the Mock Turtle , capering wildly about . 
Change lobster's again ! yelled the Gryphon at the top of its voice . 
It must be a very pretty dance , said Alice timidly . 
Would you like to see a little of it ? said the Mock Turtle . 
Very much indeed , said Alice . 
Come , let's try the first figure ! said the Mock Turtle to the Gryphon . 
We can do without lobsters , you know . 
Which shall sing ? Oh , YOU sing , said the Gryphon . 
There's a porpoise close behind us , and he's treading on my tail . 
Would not , could not , would not , could not , would not join the dance . 
Would not , could not , would not , could not , could not join the dance . 
What matters it how far we go ? his scaly friend replied . 
There is another shore , you know , upon the other side . 
The further off from England the nearer is to France Then turn not pale , beloved snail , but come and join the dance . 
I don't know where Dinn may be , said the Mock Turtle , but if you've seen them so often , of course you know what they're like . 
I believe so , Alice replied thoughtfully . 
They have their tails in their mouths and they're all over crumbs . 
You're wrong about the crumbs , said the Mock Turtle crumbs would all wash off in the sea . 
But they HAVE their tails in their mouths and the reason is here the Mock Turtle yawned and shut his eyes . 
Tell her about the reason and all that , he said to the Gryphon . 
The reason is , said the Gryphon , that they WOULD go with the lobsters to the dance . 
So they got thrown out to sea . 
So they had to fall a long way . 
So they got their tails fast in their mouths . 
So they couldn't get them out again . 
Thank you , said Alice , it's very interesting . 
I never knew so much about a whiting before . 
I can tell you more than that , if you like , said the Gryphon . 
Do you know why it's called a whiting ? I never thought about it , said Alice . 
Why ? IT DOES THE BOOTS AND SHOES . 
the Gryphon replied very solemnly . 
Does the boots and shoes ! she repeated in a wondering tone . 
Why , what are YOUR shoes done with ? said the Gryphon . 
I mean , what makes them so shiny ? Alice looked down at them , and considered a little before she gave her answer . 
They're done with blacking , I believe . 
Boots and shoes under the sea , the Gryphon went on in a deep voice , are done with a whiting . 
And what are they made of ? Alice asked in a tone of great curiosity . 
Soles and eels , of course , the Gryphon replied rather impatiently any shrimp could have told you that . 
Wouldn't it really ? said Alice in a tone of great surprise . 
I mean what I say , the Mock Turtle replied in an offended tone . 
And the Gryphon added Come , let's hear some of YOUR adventures . 
I could tell you my adventures beginning from this morning , said Alice a little timidly but it's no use going back to yesterday , because I was a different person then . 
Explain all that , said the Mock Turtle . 
No , no ! The adventures first , said the Gryphon in an impatient tone explanations take such a dreadful time . 
So Alice began telling them her adventures from the time when she first saw the White Rabbit . 
It's all about as curious as it can be , said the Gryphon . 
It all came different ! the Mock Turtle repeated thoughtfully . 
I should like to hear her try and repeat something now . 
He looked at the Gryphon as if he thought it had some kind of authority over Alice . 
Stand up and repeat 'TIS THE VOICE OF THE SLUGGARD , said the Gryphon . 
How the creatures order one about , and make one repeat lessons ! thought Alice I might as well be at school at once . 
As a duck with its eyelids , so he with his nose Trims his belt and his buttons , and turns out his toes . 
That's different from what I used to say when I was a child , said the Gryphon . 
Well , I never heard it before , said the Mock Turtle but it sounds uncommon nonsense . 
Alice said nothing she had sat down with her face in her hands , wondering if anything would EVER happen in a natural way again . 
I should like to have it explained , said the Mock Turtle . 
She can't explain it , said the Gryphon hastily . 
Go on with the next verse . 
But about his toes ? the Mock Turtle persisted . 
How COULD he turn them out with his nose , you know ? It's the first position in dancing . 
Alice said but was dreadfully puzzled by the whole thing , and longed to change the subject . 
Go on with the next verse , the Gryphon repeated impatiently it begins I passed by his garden . 
Shall we try another figure of the Lobster Quadrille ? the Gryphon went on . 
Come on ! cried the Gryphon , and , taking Alice by the hand , it hurried off , without waiting for the end of the song . 
That's the judge , she said to herself , because of his great wig . 
he did not look at all comfortable , and it was certainly not becoming . 
I suppose they are the jurors . 
However , jury men' would have done just as well . 
The twelve jurors were all writing very busily on slates . 
What are they doing ? Alice whispered to the Gryphon . 
They can't have anything to put down yet , before the trial's begun . 
They're putting down their names , the Gryphon whispered in reply , for fear they should forget them before the end of the trial . 
A nice muddle their slates'll be in before the trial's over ! thought Alice . 
One of the jurors had a pencil that squeaked . 
This of course , Alice could not stand , and she went round the court and got behind him , and very soon found an opportunity of taking it away . 
Herald , read the accusation ! said the King . 
Not yet , not yet ! the Rabbit hastily interrupted . 
He came in with a teacup in one hand and a piece of bread and butter in the other . 
I beg pardon , your Majesty , he began , for bringing these in but I hadn't quite finished my tea when I was sent for . 
You ought to have finished , said the King . 
When did you begin ? The Hatter looked at the March Hare , who had followed him into the court , arm in arm with the Dormouse . 
Fourteenth of March , I think it was , he said . 
Fifteenth , said the March Hare . 
Sixteenth , added the Dormouse . 
Take off your hat , the King said to the Hatter . 
It isn't mine , said the Hatter . 
Stolen ! the King exclaimed , turning to the jury , who instantly made a memorandum of the fact . 
I keep them to sell , the Hatter added as an explanation I've none of my own . 
Here the Queen put on her spectacles , and began staring at the Hatter , who turned pale and fidgeted . 
Give your evidence , said the King and don't be nervous , or I'll have you executed on the spot . 
I wish you wouldn't squeeze so . 
said the Dormouse , who was sitting next to her . 
I can't help it , said Alice very meekly I'm growing . 
You've no right to grow here , said the Dormouse . 
Don't talk nonsense , said Alice more boldly you know you're growing too . 
Yes , but I grow at a reasonable pace , said the Dormouse not in that ridiculous fashion . 
And he got up very sulkily and crossed over to the other side of the court . 
Give your evidence , the King repeated angrily , or I'll have you executed , whether you're nervous or not . 
It began with the tea , the Hatter replied . 
Of course twinkling begins with a T ! said the King sharply . 
You did ! said the Hatter . 
I deny it ! said the March Hare . 
He denies it , said the King leave out that part . 
After that , continued the Hatter , I cut some more bread and butter But what did the Dormouse say ? one of the jury asked . 
That I can't remember , said the Hatter . 
You MUST remember , remarked the King , or I'll have you executed . 
The miserable Hatter dropped his teacup and bread and butter , and went down on one knee . 
I'm a poor man , your Majesty , he began . 
You're a very poor speaker , said the King . 
Here one of the guinea pigs cheered , and was immediately suppressed by the officers of the court . 
I'm glad I've seen that done , thought Alice . 
If that's all you know about it , you may stand down , continued the King . 
I can't go no lower , said the Hatter I'm on the floor , as it is . 
Then you may SIT down , the King replied . 
Here the other guinea pig cheered , and was suppressed . 
Come , that finished the guinea pigs ! thought Alice . 
Now we shall get on better . 
I'd rather finish my tea , said the Hatter , with an anxious look at the Queen , who was reading the list of singers . 
You may go , said the King , and the Hatter hurriedly left the court , without even waiting to put his shoes on . 
and just take his head off outside , the Queen added to one of the officers but the Hatter was out of sight before the officer could get to the door . 
Call the next witness ! said the King . 
The next witness was the Duchess's cook . 
Give your evidence , said the King . 
Shan't , said the cook . 
The King looked anxiously at the White Rabbit , who said in a low voice , Your Majesty must cross examine THIS witness . 
Treacle , said a sleepy voice behind her . 
Collar that Dormouse , the Queen shrieked out . 
Never mind ! said the King , with an air of great relief . 
And he added in an undertone to the Queen , Really , my dear , YOU must cross examine the next witness . 
What do you know about this business ? the King said to Alice . 
Nothing WHATEVER ? persisted the King . 
Nothing whatever , said Alice . 
That's very important , the King said , turning to the jury . 
Some of the jury wrote it down important , and some unimportant . 
Alice could see this , as she was near enough to look over their slates but it doesn't matter a bit , she thought to herself . 
At this moment the King , who had been for some time busily writing in his note book , cackled out Silence ! and read out from his book , Rule Forty two . 
ALL PERSONS MORE THAN A MILE HIGH TO LEAVE THE COURT . 
I'M not a mile high , said Alice . 
You are , said the King . 
Nearly two miles high , added the Queen . 
Well , I shan't go , at any rate , said Alice besides , that's not a regular rule you invented it just now . 
It's the oldest rule in the book , said the King . 
Then it ought to be Number One , said Alice . 
The King turned pale , and shut his note book hastily . 
Consider your verdict , he said to the jury , in a low , trembling voice . 
There's more evidence to come yet , please your Majesty , said the White Rabbit , jumping up in a great hurry this paper has just been picked up . 
What's in it ? said the Queen . 
I haven't opened it yet , said the White Rabbit , but it seems to be a letter , written by the prisoner to to somebody . 
It must have been that , said the King , unless it was written to nobody , which isn't usual , you know . 
Who is it directed to ? said one of the jurymen . 
It isn't directed at all , said the White Rabbit in fact , there's nothing written on the OUTSIDE . 
He unfolded the paper as he spoke , and added It isn't a letter , after all it's a set of verses . 
Are they in the prisoner's handwriting ? asked another of they jurymen . 
No , they're not , said the White Rabbit , and that's the queerest thing about it . 
He must have imitated somebody else's hand , said the King . 
Please your Majesty , said the Knave , I didn't write it , and they can't prove I did there's no name signed at the end . 
If you didn't sign it , said the King , that only makes the matter worse . 
You MUST have meant some mischief , or else you'd have signed your name like an honest man . 
There was a general clapping of hands at this it was the first really clever thing the King had said that day . 
That PROVES his guilt , said the Queen . 
It proves nothing of the sort ! said Alice . 
Why , you don't even know what they're about ! Read them , said the King . 
The White Rabbit put on his spectacles . 
Where shall I begin , please your Majesty ? he asked . 
Begin at the beginning , the King said gravely , and go on till you come to the end then stop . 
If I or she should chance to be Involved in this affair , He trusts to you to set them free , Exactly as we were . 
An obstacle that came between Him , and ourselves , and it . 
Don't let him know she liked them best , For this must ever be A secret , kept from all the rest , Between yourself and me . 
I don't believe there's an atom of meaning in it . 
The jury all wrote down on their slates , SHE doesn't believe there's an atom of meaning in it , but none of them attempted to explain the paper . 
If there's no meaning in it , said the King , that saves a world of trouble , you know , as we needn't try to find any . 
SAID I COULD NOT SWIM you can't swim , can you ? he added , turning to the Knave . 
The Knave shook his head sadly . 
Do I look like it ? he said . 
Why , there they are ! said the King triumphantly , pointing to the tarts on the table . 
Nothing can be clearer than THAT . 
Then again BEFORE SHE HAD THIS FIT you never had fits , my dear , I think ? he said to the Queen . 
Never ! said the Queen furiously , throwing an inkstand at the Lizard as she spoke . 
Then the words don't FIT you , said the King , looking round the court with a smile . 
There was a dead silence . 
No , no ! said the Queen . 
Stuff and nonsense ! said Alice loudly . 
The idea of having the sentence first ! Hold your tongue ! said the Queen , turning purple . 
I won't ! said Alice . 
Off with her head ! the Queen shouted at the top of her voice . 
So Alice got up and ran off , thinking while she ran , as well she might , what a wonderful dream it had been . 
to the confused clamour of the busy farm yard while the lowing of the cattle in the distance would take the place of the Mock Turtle's heavy sobs . 
