This Project Gutenberg Etext Prepared by Ng E Ching yisheng singnet . 
sg Allan Quatermain by H. Rider Haggard INTRODUCTION December 'I have just buried my boy , my poor handsome boy of whom I was so proud , and my heart is broken . 
It is very hard having only one son to lose him thus , but God's will be done . 
'Poor Harry to go so soon ! just when his life was opening to him . 
He was doing so well at the hospital , he had passed his last examination with honours , and I was proud of them , much prouder than he was , I think . 
And then he must needs go to that smallpox hospital . 
But the rest has come to him before the labour . 
It was a dreary December afternoon , and the sky was heavy with snow , but not much was falling . 
The coffin was put down by the grave , and a few big flakes lit upon it . 
But that was not all . 
A robin redbreast came as bold as could be and lit upon the coffin and began to sing . 
The above , signed 'Allan Quatermain' , is an extract from my diary written two years and more ago . 
If not , well it does not matter . 
Harry is there and I am here , and yet somehow I cannot help feeling that I am not far off Harry . 
On all the four walls of this vestibule were placed pairs of horns about a hundred pairs altogether , all of which I had shot myself . 
In the centre of the room , however , over the wide fireplace , there was a clear space left on which I had fixed up all my rifles . 
Some of them I have had for forty years , old muzzle loaders that nobody would look at nowadays . 
And many an elephant have I shot with that old gun . 
She always took a handful of black powder and a three ounce ball , and kicked like the very deuce . 
The thirst for the wilderness was on me I could tolerate this place no more I would go and die as I had lived , among the wild game and the savages . 
The ruling passion is strong in death , they say , and my heart was dead that night . 
It is a depressing conclusion , but in all essentials the savage and the child of civilization are identical . 
There , I might go on for ever , but what is the good ? Civilization is only savagery silver gilt . 
A vainglory is it , and like a northern light , comes but to fade and leave the sky more dark . 
Do not let me , however , be understood as decrying our modern institutions , representing as they do the gathered experience of humanity applied for the good of all . 
Of course they have great advantages hospitals for instance but then , remember , we breed the sickly people who fill them . 
In a savage land they do not exist . 
I make no apology for this digression , especially as this is an introduction which all young people and those who never like to think will naturally skip . 
It seems to me very desirable that we should sometimes try to understand the limitations of our nature , so that we may not be carried away by the pride of knowledge . 
Man's cleverness is almost indefinite , and stretches like an elastic band , but human nature is like an iron ring . 
It is the one fixed unchangeable thing fixed as the stars , more enduring than the mountains , as unalterable as the way of the Eternal . 
But the composing elements remain the same , nor will there be one more bit of coloured glass nor one less for ever and ever . 
It is on the nineteen rough serviceable savage portions that we fall back on emergencies , not on the polished but unsubstantial twentieth . 
Civilization should wipe away our tears , and yet we weep and cannot be comforted . 
Warfare is abhorrent to her , and yet we strike out for hearth and home , for honour and fair fame , and can glory in the blow . 
And so on , through everything . 
So , when the heart is stricken , and the head is humbled in the dust , civilization fails us utterly . 
There , perhaps , I should be able to learn to think of poor Harry lying in the churchyard , without feeling as though my heart would break in two . 
And now there is an end of this egotistical talk , and there shall be no more of it . 
Going down the steps I opened it myself , and in came my old friends Sir Henry Curtis and Captain John Good , RN . 
They entered the vestibule and sat themselves down before the wide hearth , where , I remember , a particularly good fire of logs was burning . 
'It is very kind of you to come round , I said by way of making a remark 'it must have been heavy walking in the snow . 
They said nothing , but Sir Henry slowly filled his pipe and lit it with a burning ember . 
Nor did his form belie his face . 
I have never seen wider shoulders or a deeper chest . 
Indeed , Sir Henry's girth is so great that , though he is six feet two high , he does not strike one as a tall man . 
As I looked at him I could not help thinking what a curious contrast my little dried up self presented to his grand face and form . 
I say stout , but it is a mild term I regret to state that of late years Good has been running to fat in a most disgraceful way . 
Sir Henry tells him that it comes from idleness and over feeding , and Good does not like it at all , though he cannot deny it . 
Next , I opened a cupboard in the wainscoting and got a bottle of whisky and some tumblers and water . 
I always like to do these things for myself it is irritating to me to have somebody continually at my elbow , as though I were an eighteen month old baby . 
Before a bad storm the game always herd together , but they cease their calling . 
They sat and smoked and drank whisky and water , and I stood by the fire also smoking and looking at them . 
'Old friends , I said , 'how long is it since we got back from Kukuanaland ? 'Three years , said Good . 
'Why do you ask ? 'I ask because I think that I have had a long enough spell of civilization . 
I am going back to the veldt . 
Sir Henry laid his head back in his arm chair and laughed one of his deep laughs . 
'How very odd , he said , 'eh , Good ? Good beamed at me mysteriously through his eyeglass and murmured , 'Yes , odd very odd . 
'I don't quite understand , said I , looking from one to the other , for I dislike mysteries . 
'Don't you , old fellow ? said Sir Henry 'then I will explain . 
As Good and I were walking up here we had a talk . 
'If Good was there you probably did , I put in sarcastically , for Good is a great hand at talking . 
'And what may it have been about ? 'What do you think ? asked Sir Henry . 
It was not likely that I should know what Good might be talking about . 
He talks about so many things . 
'Well , it was about a little plan that I have formed namely , that if you were willing we should pack up our traps and go off to Africa on another expedition . 
I fairly jumped at his words . 
'You don't say so ! I said . 
'Yes I do , though , and so does Good don't you , Good ? 'Rather , said that gentleman . 
'Listen , old fellow , went on Sir Henry , with considerable animation of manner . 
'I'm tired of it too , dead tired of doing nothing more except play the squire in a country that is sick of squires . 
For a year or more I have been getting as restless as an old elephant who scents danger . 
I am always dreaming of Kukuanaland and Gagool and King Solomon's Mines . 
I can assure you I have become the victim of an almost unaccountable craving . 
I am sick of shooting pheasants and partridges , and want to have a go at some large game again . 
There , you know the feeling when one has once tasted brandy and water , milk becomes insipid to the palate . 
That year we spent together up in Kukuanaland seems to me worth all the other years of my life put together . 
I dare say that I am a fool for my pains , but I can't help it I long to go , and , what is more , I mean to go . 
He paused , and then went on again . 
'And , after all , why should I not go ? I have no wife or parent , no chick or child to keep me . 
If anything happens to me the baronetcy will go to my brother George and his boy , as it would ultimately do in any case . 
I am of no importance to any one . 
'Ah ! I said , 'I thought you would come to that sooner or later . 
And now , Good , what is your reason for wanting to trek have you got one ? 'I have , said Good , solemnly . 
'I never do anything without a reason and it isn't a lady at least , if it is , it's several . 
I looked at him again . 
Good is so overpoweringly frivolous . 
'What is it ? I said . 
'Well , if you really want to know , though I'd rather not speak of a delicate and strictly personal matter , I'll tell you I'm getting too fat . 
'Shut up , Good ! said Sir Henry . 
'And now , Quatermain , tell us , where do you propose going to ? I lit my pipe , which had gone out , before answering . 
'Have you people ever heard of Mt Kenia ? I asked . 
'Don't know the place , said Good . 
'Did you ever hear of the Island of Lamu ? I asked again . 
Stop , though isn't it a place about miles north of Zanzibar ? 'Yes . 
What I have to propose is this . 
What do you say to that , my hearties ? 'It's a big order , said Sir Henry , reflectively . 
'You are right , I answered , 'it is but I take it that we are all three of us in search of a big order . 
We want a change of scene , and we are likely to get one a thorough change . 
All my life I have longed to visit those parts , and I mean to do it before I die . 
My poor boy's death has broken the last link between me and civilization , and I'm off to my native wilds . 
If you fellows like to come , well and good if not , I'll go alone . 
'I'm your man , though I don't believe in your white race , said Sir Henry Curtis , rising and placing his arm upon my shoulder . 
'I'll go into training at once . 
By all means let's go to Mt Kenia and the other place with an unpronounceable name , and look for a white race that does not exist . 
It's all one to me . 
'When do you propose to start ? asked Sir Henry . 
'This day month , I answered , 'by the British India steamboat and don't you be so certain that things have no existence because you do not happen to have heard of them . 
Remember King Solomon's mines ! Some fourteen weeks or so had passed since the date of this conversation , and this history goes on its way in very different surroundings . 
This conclusion we arrived at from information given to us by a German trader whom we met upon the steamer at Aden . 
I think that he was the dirtiest German I ever knew but he was a good fellow , and gave us a great deal of valuable information . 
'Lamu , said he , 'you goes to Lamu oh ze beautiful place ! and he turned up his fat face and beamed with mild rapture . 
'One year and a half I live there and never change my shirt never at all . 
Lamu is a very curious place , but the things which stand out most clearly in my memory in connection with it are its exceeding dirtiness and its smells . 
These last are simply awful . 
Just below the Consulate is the beach , or rather a mud bank that is called a beach . 
It is left quite bare at low tide , and serves as a repository for all the filth , offal , and refuse of the town . 
As this process has been going on for generations , the condition of the shore can be better imagined than described . 
No wonder people get fever at Lamu . 
And yet the place was not without a certain quaintness and charm of its own , though possibly indeed probably it was one which would quickly pall . 
'Well , where are you gentlemen steering for ? asked our friend the hospitable Consul , as we smoked our pipes after dinner . 
'We propose to go to Mt Kenia and then on to Mt Lekakisera , answered Sir Henry . 
'Quatermain has got hold of some yarn about there being a white race up in the unknown territories beyond . 
The Consul looked interested , and answered that he had heard something of that , too . 
'What have you heard ? I asked . 
'Have you the letter ? I asked . 
Sir Henry and I looked at each other . 
'I think that we will go to Mr Mackenzie's , I said . 
Your best plan will be to choose a few picked men for personal servants and hunters , and to hire bearers from village to village . 
Fortunately there were at Lamu at this time a part of Wakwafi Askari . 
They are also great hunters . 
Poor fellow , he had died of fever when on his return journey , and within a day's march of Mombasa . 
It does seem hard that he should have gone off thus when within a few hours of safety , and after having survived so many perils , but so it was . 
His hunters buried him , and then came on to Lamu in a dhow . 
In due course we found them in a mud hut on the outskirts of the town . 
Three of the men were sitting outside the hut , and fine frank looking fellows they were , having a more or less civilized appearance . 
To them we cautiously opened the object of our visit , at first with very scant success . 
They declared that they could not entertain any such idea , that they were worn and weary with long travelling , and that their hearts were sore at the loss of their master . 
They meant to go back to their homes and rest awhile . 
This did not sound very promising , so by way of effecting a diversion I asked where the remainder of them were . 
I was told there were six , and I saw but three . 
But the men should be awakened . 
He was a very tall , broad man , quite six foot three , I should say , but gaunt , with lean , wiry looking limbs . 
My first glance at him told me that he was no Wakwafi he was a pure bred Zulu . 
Till he is in a position to wear a ring he is looked on as a boy , though he may be thirty five years of age , or even more . 
A. Q. and that he had a great three cornered hole in his forehead . 
I knew my man at once , although I had not seen him for twelve years . 
'How do you do , Umslopogaas ? I said quietly in Zulu . 
started , and almost let the long handled battleaxe he held in his hand fall in his astonishment . 
Next second he had recognized me , and was saluting me in an outburst of sonorous language which made his companions the Wakwafi stare . 
Koos ! Baba ! Wise is the voice of our people that says , Mountain never meets with mountain , but at daybreak or at even man shall meet again with man . 
Behold ! a messenger came up from Natal , Macumazahn is dead ! cried he . 
The land knows Macumazahn no more . 
And now , behold , now in this strange place of stinks I find Macumazahn , my friend . 
There is no room for doubt . 
, and his grim face grew sad . 
, and he glanced at the Wakwafi Askari 'it is for thine own ear . 
A. Q. and there breathes not the man who , by running , can touch me again when once I have bounded from his side . 
On I sped , and after me came the messengers of death , and their voice was as the voice of dogs that hunt . 
From my own kraal I flew , and , as I passed , she who had betrayed me was drawing water from the spring . 
I fleeted by her like the shadow of Death , and as I went I smote with mine axe , and lo ! her head fell it fell into the water pan . 
And nought have I brought with me . 
Nought have I brought save this mine axe of all my belongings this remains alone . 
They have divided my cattle they have taken my wives and my children know my face no more . 
Yet with this axe' and he swung the formidable weapon round his head , making the air hiss as he clove it 'will I cut another path to fortune . 
I shook my head at him . 
'Umslopogaas , I said , 'I know thee from of old . 
Ever ambitious , ever plotting to be great , I fear me that thou hast overreached thyself at last . 
Years ago , when thou wouldst have plotted against Cetywayo , son of Panda , I warned thee , and thou didst listen . 
But now , when I was not by thee to stay thy hand , thou hast dug a pit for thine own feet to fall in . 
Is it not so ? But what is done is done . 
Let it be forgotten ! 'And now , behold , Umslopogaas , I know thee for a great warrior and a brave man , faithful to the death . 
Even in Zululand , where all the men are brave , they called thee the Slaughterer , and at night told stories round the fire of thy strength and deeds . 
And thou seest this one also him with the round stomach , the shining eye , and the pleasant face . 
is his name , and a good man is he and a true , being of a curious tribe who pass their life upon the water , and live in floating kraals . 
, and far into the unknown beyond . 
We know not what we shall find there we go to hunt and seek adventures , and new places , being tired of sitting still , with the same old things around us . 
Wilt thou come with us ? To thee shall be given command of all our servants but what shall befall thee , that I know not . 
, each of , plumed warriors , waiting on his word . 
How it shall go with thee , I know not mayhap death awaits thee and us . 
Wilt thou throw thyself to Fortune and come , or fearest thou , Umslopogaas ? The great man smiled . 
So we are going to see something like the old times again , Macumazahn , when we fought and hunted in Zululand ? Ay , I will come . 
'See the hole in my head the brains gushed out therefrom , yet did I slay him who smote , and live . 
They have a superstition that , if this is not done , as the body of their enemy swells up so will the bodies of those who killed him swell up . 
A. Q. nor have I reckoned those whom another man had struck . 
'Be silent , I said , for I saw that he was getting the blood fever on him 'be silent well art thou called the Slaughterer . 
We would not hear of thy deeds of blood . 
Remember , if thou comest with us , we fight not save in self defence . 
Listen , we need servants . 
These men , and I pointed to the Wakwafi , who had retired a little way during our 'indaba' , 'say they will not come . 
Hast thou forgotten how I served thy brother ? 'Nay , we will come with the white man , gasped the man . 
'So ! said Umslopogaas , in a quiet voice , as he suddenly released his hold , so that the man fell backward . 
'That man Umslopogaas seems to have a curious MORAL ascendency over his companions , Good afterwards remarked thoughtfully . 
At this particular place we discovered on a mound , covered up with rank growth and rubbish , two of the most beautiful stone doorways that it is possible to conceive . 
The carving on them was simply exquisite , and I only regret that we had no means of getting them away . 
Gone ! quite gone ! the way that everything must go . 
That is the inexorable law . 
In this ruined and forgotten place the moralist may behold a symbol of the universal destiny . 
In the result he threatened to set the Masai about whom more anon on to us . 
That night he , with all our hired bearers , ran away , stealing most of the goods which had been entrusted to them to carry . 
After that , it was clear to us that we had had enough of caravans and of bearers . 
Indeed , we had not much left for a caravan to carry . 
And yet , how were we to get on ? It was Good who solved the question . 
'Here is water , he said , pointing to the Tana River 'and yesterday I saw a party of natives hunting hippopotami in canoes . 
I understand that Mr Mackenzie's mission station is on the Tana River . 
For these two canoes we had to pay nearly all our remaining cloth , and also many other articles . 
On the day following our purchase of the two canoes we effected a start . 
In the first canoe were Good , Sir Henry , and three of our Wakwafi followers in the second myself , Umslopogaas , and the other two Wakwafis . 
And certainly he worked us . 
On shore Good is a gentle , mild mannered man , and given to jocosity but , as we found to our cost , Good in a boat was a perfect demon . 
To begin with , he knew all about it , and we didn't . 
But the current ran very strong against us , and at the best we were not able to make more than twenty miles a day . 
Our plan was to start at dawn , and paddle along till about half past ten , by which time the sun got too hot to allow of further exertion . 
I , with Sir Henry and Umslopogaas , would go out to shoot something for the pot . 
Generally this was an easy task , for all sorts of game abounded on the banks of the Tana . 
managed to kill a fine fat eland with a Martini I had lent him . 
Three days after our start an ominous incident occurred . 
One glance was sufficient although I was personally unacquainted with the tribe to tell me that he was a Masai Elmoran , or young warrior . 
On his left arm was a large and well made elliptical shield of buffalo hide , on which were painted strange heraldic looking devices . 
'Hulloa ! holloaed Sir Henry from the other boat 'our friend the caravan leader has been as good as his word , and set the Masai after us . 
Thereupon we landed and , having posted a sentry , proceeded to cook and eat our evening meal . 
This done , we took the situation into our serious consideration . 
On the contrary , what did seem probable was that the part was after us and awaiting a favourable opportunity to attack us . 
This being so , there were two things that we could do one of which was to go on , and the other to go back . 
Near the banks , however , it was very dark , and the night wind sighed sadly in the reeds . 
Then after a pause I caught sight of the massive form of His Majesty the Lion , coming down to drink his fill after meat . 
It was the head of a hippopotamus . 
Down it went without a sound , only to rise again within five yards of where I sat . 
This was decidedly too near to be comfortable , more especially as the hippopotamus was evidently animated by intense curiosity to know what on earth our canoes were . 
Indeed , I had half a mind to give him a ball from my eight bore , but on reflection determined to let him alone unless he actually charged the boat . 
Presently he sank again as noiselessly as before , and I saw no more of him . 
Just then , on looking towards the bank on our right , I fancied that I caught sight of a dark figure flitting between the tree trunks . 
I have very keen sight , and I was almost sure that I saw something , but whether it was bird , beast , or man I could not say . 
At the moment , however , a dark cloud passed over the moon , and I saw no more of it . 
Just then , too , although all the other sounds of the forest had ceased , a species of horned owl with which I was well acquainted began to hoot with great persistency . 
After that , save for the rustling of trees and reeds when the wind caught them , there was complete silence . 
But somehow , in the most unaccountable way , I had suddenly become nervous . 
There was no particular reason why I should be , beyond the ordinary reasons which surround the Central African traveller , and yet I undoubtedly was . 
I would not give way to it , however , although I felt the cold perspiration stand out upon my forehead . 
I would not arouse the others . 
, only turning my face so as to command a view of Umslopogaas and the two Wakwafi who were sleeping alongside of and beyond me . 
In the distance I heard a hippopotamus splash faintly , then the owl hooted again in a kind of unnatural screaming note , No doubt this owl was a wingless bird . 
I afterwards learnt that the hooting of an owl is a favourite signal among the Masai tribes . 
A. Q. and the wind began to moan plaintively through the trees , making a heart chilling music . 
Above was the black bosom of the cloud , and beneath me swept the black flood of the water , and I felt as though I and Death were utterly alone between them . 
Suddenly my blood seemed to freeze in my veins , and my heart to stand still . 
Was it fancy , or were we moving ? I turned my eyes to look for the other canoe which should be alongside of us . 
I could not see it , but instead I saw a lean and clutching black hand lifting itself above the gunwale of the little boat . 
, and something warm spurted into my face . 
In an instant the spell was broken I knew that it was no nightmare , but that we were attacked by swimming Masai . 
The blow fell upon a man's arm , and , catching it against the thick wooden gunwale of the canoe , completely severed it from the body just above the wrist . 
As for its owner , he uttered no sound or cry . 
, where no doubt a party of Masai were waiting to dig their shovel headed spears into us . 
But at last we fetched up , and were thankful to find that they had not been molested at all . 
At last it came , and I have not often been more grateful to see the light , though so far as my canoe was concerned it revealed a ghastly sight . 
There in the bottom of the little boat lay the unfortunate Askari , the sime , or sword , in his bosom , and the severed hand gripping the handle . 
Alas ! when our time comes , most of us like him leave nothing but bubbles behind , to show that we have been , and the bubbles soon burst . 
The hand of his murderer we threw into the stream , where it slowly sank . 
, I kept and used as a hunting knife , and very useful it proved . 
We did not dare to wander about to search for game . 
At two o'clock we got off again , taking a supply of broiled fish with us , and shortly afterwards the rain came on harder than ever . 
Mackenzie's hospitable roof that night a prospect that did not tend to enliven us . 
we reckoned that we were still quite ten miles below the station . 
This being so , we set to work to make the best arrangements we could for the night . 
Fortunately , however , we espied a little rocky islet , not more than fifteen miles of so square , situated nearly in the middle of the river . 
For this we paddled , and , making fast the canoes , landed and made ourselves as comfortable as circumstances would permit , which was very uncomfortable indeed . 
It seemed absolutely endless , and once or twice I feared that two of the Askari would have died of the wet , cold , and exposure . 
At any rate , we saw nothing of them . 
Benumbed , and utterly exhausted , we dragged ourselves to our feet , and went and stood in the bright rays , and were thankful for them . 
I can quite understand how it is that primitive people become sun worshippers , especially if their conditions of life render them liable to exposure . 
In half an hour more we were once again making fair progress with the help of a good wind . 
Our spirits had returned with the sunshine , and we were ready to laugh at difficulties and dangers that had been almost crushing on the previous day . 
And so we went on cheerily till about eleven o'clock . 
I was the first to see the house , and could not restrain myself from giving a hearty cheer , in which the others , including the natives , joined lustily . 
There was no thought of halting now . 
'How do you do , sirs , said Mr Mackenzie , a grey haired , angular man , with a kindly face and red cheeks 'I hope I see you very well . 
My natives told me an hour ago they spied two canoes with white men in them coming up the river so we have just come down to meet you . 
'And it is very glad that we are to see a white face again , let me tell you , put in the lady a charming and refined looking person . 
We took off our hats in acknowledgment , and proceeded to introduce ourselves . 
'And now , said Mr Mackenzie , 'you must all be hungry and weary so come on , gentlemen , come on , and right glad we are to see you . 
The last white who visited us was Alphonse you will see Alphonse presently and that was a year ago . 
Through the centre of the gardens ran the roadway up which we were walking . 
And what a garden it was ! I have always loved a good garden , and I could have thrown up my hands for joy when I saw Mr Mackenzie's . 
, and melons and cucumbers , and , indeed , every sort of vegetable and fruit . 
'Well , you have something like a garden ! I said , overpowered with admiration not untouched by envy . 
'Yes , answered the missionary , 'it is a very good garden , and has well repaid my labour but it is the climate that I have to thank . 
If you stick a peach stone into the ground it will bear fruit the fourth year , and a rose cutting with bloom in a year . 
It is a lovely clime . 
The house itself , a massively built single storied building , was roofed with slabs of stone , and had a handsome veranda in front . 
'What a beautiful tree ! exclaimed Sir Henry . 
'Yes , you are right it is a beautiful tree . 
There is not another like it in all the country round , that I know of , answered Mr Mackenzie . 
'I call it my watch tower . 
But you must be hungry , and I am sure the dinner is cooked . 
Come in , my friends it is but a rough place , but well enough for these savage parts and I can tell you what , we have got a French cook . 
And he led the way on to the veranda . 
'Madame bids me for to say that dinnar is sarved . 
Messieurs , my compliments then suddenly perceiving Umslopogaas , who was loitering along after us and playing with his battleaxe , he threw up his hands in astonishment . 
'Ah , mais quel homme ! he ejaculated in French , 'quel sauvage affreux ! Take but note of his huge choppare and the great pit in his head . 
'Parbleu ! said Alphonse , 'he is angered he makes the grimace . 
I like not his air . 
And he did with considerable rapidity . 
Mr Mackenzie joined heartily in the shout of laughter which we indulged in . 
'He is a queer character Alphonse , he said . 
'By and by I will tell you his history in the meanwhile let us try his cooking . 
He had got into some trouble in France , and fled to Zanzibar , where he found an application had been made by the French Government for his extradition . 
You should get him to tell you the story . 
When dinner was over we lit our pipes , and Sir Henry proceeded to give our host a description of our journey up here , over which he looked very grave . 
'It is evident to me , he said , 'that those rascally Masai are following you , and I am very thankful that you have reached this house in safety . 
I do not think that they will dare to attack you here . 
It is unfortunate , though , that nearly all my men have gone down to the coast with ivory and goods . 
There are two hundred of them in the caravan , and the consequence is that I have not more than twenty men available for defensive purposes in case they should attack us . 
The man listened , and then saluted and departed . 
'I am sure I devoutly hope that we shall bring no such calamity upon you , said I , anxiously , when he had taken his seat again . 
'Rather than bring those bloodthirsty villains about your ears , we will move on and take our chance . 
'You will do nothing of the sort . 
If the Masai come , they come , and there is an end on it and I think we can give them a pretty warm greeting . 
I would not show any man the door for all the Masai in the world . 
Mr Mackenzie , by way of answer , went out of the room and returned , bringing with him a most curious sword . 
Since I saw the above I have examined hundreds of these swords , but have never been able to discover how the gold plates were inlaid in the fretwork . 
The armourers who make them in Zu vendis bind themselves by oath not to reveal the secret . 
A. Q. 'There , said Mr Mackenzie , 'did you ever see a sword like that ? We all examined it and shook our heads . 
Look here I will tell you all that I know about the matter , which is not much . 
One afternoon , just before sunset , I was sitting on the veranda , when a poor , miserable , starved looking man came limping up and squatted down before me . 
But somehow he did live , and at last by slow degrees made his way south and reached this place . 
What the details of his journey were I never learnt , for I told him to return on the morrow , bidding one of my headmen look after him for the night . 
What do you think , Mr Quatermain ? I shook my head , and answered , 'I don't know . 
There are so many queer things hidden away in the heart of this great continent that I should be sorry to assert that there was no truth in it . 
Anyhow , we mean to try and find out . 
'You are very venturesome people , said Mr Mackenzie , with a smile , and the subject dropped . 
We then returned to the veranda , where we found Umslopogaas taking advantage of this favourable opportunity to clean all the rifles thoroughly . 
He had a name for each gun . 
It was very curious to hear him addressing each gun as he cleaned it , as though it were an individual , and in a vein of the quaintest humour . 
By a piece of grim humour , he had named this axe 'Inkosi kaas' , which is the Zulu word for chieftainess . 
I took up the axe and closely examined this formidable weapon . 
It was , as I have said , of the nature of a pole axe . 
Just above where the haft entered the head were scored a number of little nicks , each nick representing a man killed in battle with the weapon . 
It was not very heavy , the head weighing two and a half pounds , as nearly as I could judge . 
I think he considered the punch a neater and more sportsmanlike tool , and it was from his habit of pecking at his enemy with it that he got his name of 'Woodpecker' . 
Certainly in his hands it was a terribly efficient one . 
Such was Umslopogaas' axe , Inkosi kaas , the most remarkable and fatal hand to hand weapon that I ever saw , and one which he cherished as much as his own life . 
It scarcely ever left his hand except when he was eating , and then he always sat with it under his leg . 
This lily , which the natives say blooms only once in ten years , flourishes in the most arid soil . 
Compared to the size of the bloom , the bulb is small , generally weighing about four pounds . 
, I know not how to describe its beauty and splendour , or the indescribable sweetness of its perfume . 
Then comes the bloom itself , a single dazzling arch of white enclosing another cup of richest velvety crimson , from the heart of which rises a golden coloured pistil . 
I have never seen anything to equal this bloom in beauty or fragrance , and as I believe it is but little known , I take the liberty to describe it at length . 
Looking at it for the first time I well remember that I realized how even in a flower there dwells something of the majesty of its Maker . 
After that I fell to asking her if she was not lonely up here among all these savage people and without any companions of her own age . 
'Oh , indeed no ! I am as happy as the day is long , and besides I have my own companions . 
Everybody thinks them a trouble , and they have to do what their schoolmistress likes . 
Oh ! it would break my heart to be put in a cage like that and not to be free free as the air . 
'Would you not like to learn ? I asked . 
Father teaches me Latin and French and arithmetic . 
'And are you never afraid among all these wild men ? 'Afraid ? Oh no ! they never interfere with me . 
because I am so white and have fair hair . 
Once I shot a leopard that jumped upon my donkey as I was riding along . 
It frightened me very much , but I shot it in the ear and it fell dead , and I have its skin upon my bed . 
I looked , and for the first time there burst upon my sight the glory of Mount Kenia . 
The solemn majesty and beauty of this white peak are together beyond the power of my poor pen to describe . 
There it rose straight and sheer a glittering white glory , its crest piercing the very blue of heaven . 
Yes , such things of beauty are indeed a joy for ever , and I can well understand what little Flossie meant when she talked of Kenia as her companion . 
'Slay what , you old bloodhound ? I asked . 
This rather puzzled him , but at length he answered 'The other shadows . 
'So thou wouldst continue thy murdering even after death ? I said . 
'I murder not , he answered hotly 'I kill in fair fight . 
Man is born to kill . 
He who kills not when his blood is hot is a woman , and no man . 
The people who kill not are slaves . 
I say I kill in fair fight and when I am in the shadow , as you white men say , I hope to go on killing in fair fight . 
Mr Mackenzie gave a sigh of relief when he heard this , and so indeed did we , for we had had quite enough of the Masai to last us for some time . 
How ill judged that view was the sequel will show . 
'My grandfather , he began , 'was a soldier of the Guard , and served under Napoleon . 
He was in the retreat from Moscow , and lived for ten days on his own leggings and a pair he stole from a comrade . 
He used to get drunk he died drunk , and I remember playing at drums on his coffin . 
My father Here we suggested that he might skip his ancestry and come to the point . 
'Bien , messieurs ! replied this comical little man , with a polite bow . 
'I did only wish to demonstrate that the military principle is not hereditary . 
My grandfather was a splendid man , six feet two high , broad in proportion , a swallower of fire and gaiters . 
Also he was remarkable for his moustache . 
To me there remains the moustache and nothing more . 
'I am , messieurs , a cook , and I was born at Marseilles . 
In that dear town I spent my happy youth . 
For years and years I washed the dishes at the Hotel Continental . 
Ah , those were golden days ! and he sighed . 
Need I say , messieurs , that I admire beauty ? Nay , I adore the fair . 
Messieurs , we admire all the roses in a garden , but we pluck one . 
I plucked one , and alas , messieurs , it pricked my finger . 
I loved to desperation , I adored her to despair . 
She transported me in every sense she inspired me . 
when Annette , my adored Annette , smiled on me . 
Never' and here his manly voice broke into a sob 'never shall I cook so well again . 
Here he melted into tears . 
'Come , cheer up ! said Sir Henry in French , smacking him smartly on the back . 
'There's no knowing what may happen , you know . 
To judge from your dinner today , I should say you were in a fair way to recovery . 
Alphonse stopped weeping , and began to rub his back . 
'Monsieur , he said , 'doubtless means to console , but his hand is heavy . 
To continue we loved , and were happy in each other's love . 
The birds in their little nest could not be happier than Alphonse and his Annette . 
Then came the blow sapristi ! when I think of it . 
Messieurs will forgive me if I wipe away a tear . 
Mine was an evil number I was drawn for the conscription . 
Fortune would be avenged on me for having won the heart of Annette . 
'The evil moment came I had to go . 
I tried to run away , but I was caught by brutal soldiers , and they banged me with the butt end of muskets till my mustachios curled with pain . 
I had a cousin a linen draper , well to do , but very ugly . 
He had drawn a good number , and sympathized when they thumped me . 
To thee , my cousin , I said , to thee , in whose veins flows the blue blood of our heroic grandparent , to thee I consign Annette . 
Watch over her whilst I hunt for glory in the bloody field . 
Make your mind easy , said he I will . 
As the sequel shows , he did ! 'I went . 
I lived in barracks on black soup . 
I am a refined man and a poet by nature , and I suffered tortures from the coarse horror of my surroundings . 
There was a drill sergeant , and he had a cane . 
Ah , that cane , how it curled ! Alas , never can I forget it ! 'One morning came the news my battalion was ordered to Tonquin . 
The drill sergeant and the other coarse monsters rejoiced . 
I I made enquiries about Tonquin . 
In Tonquin are savage Chinese who rip you open . 
My artistic tastes for I am also an artist recoiled from the idea of being ripped open . 
The great man makes up his mind quickly . 
I made up my mind . 
I determined not to be ripped open . 
'I reached Marseilles disguised as an old man . 
I went to the house of my cousin he in whom runs my grandfather's heroic blood and there sat Annette . 
It was the season of cherries . 
They took a double stalk . 
At each end was a cherry . 
My cousin put one into his mouth , Annette put the other in hers . 
Then they drew the stalks in till their eyes met and alas , alas that I should have to say it ! they kissed . 
The game was a pretty one , but it filled me with fury . 
The heroic blood of my grandfather boiled up in me . 
I rushed into the kitchen . 
I struck my cousin with the old man's crutch . 
He fell I had slain him . 
Alas , I believe that I did slay him . 
I hid aboard a vessel . 
The vessel put to sea . 
The captain found me and beat me . 
He posted a letter from a foreign port to the police . 
He did not put me ashore because I cooked so well . 
I cooked for him all the way to Zanzibar . 
When I asked for payment he kicked me . 
The blood of my heroic grandfather boiled within me , and I shook my fist in his face and vowed to have my revenge . 
At Zanzibar there was a telegram . 
I cursed the man who invented telegraphs . 
Now I curse him again . 
I was to be arrested for desertion , for murder , and que sais je ? I escaped from the prison . 
I fled , I starved . 
I met the men of Monsieur le Cure . 
I am full of woe . 
But I return not to France . 
Better to risk my life in these horrible places than to know the Bagne . 
He paused , and we nearly choked with laughter , having to turn our faces away . 
'Ah ! you weep , messieurs , he said . 
'No wonder it is a sad story . 
'Perhaps , said Sir Henry , 'the heroic blood of your grandparent will triumph after all perhaps you will still be great . 
At any rate we shall see . 
And now I vote we go to bed . 
I am dead tired , and we had not much sleep on that confounded rock last night . 
And so we did , and very strange the tidy rooms and clean white sheets seemed to us after our recent experiences . 
CHAPTER V UMSLOPOGAAS MAKES A PROMISE Next morning at breakfast I missed Flossie and asked where she was . 
'I hope she will be all right , I said , a little anxiously 'I never meant her to trouble after the flower . 
'Ah , Flossie can look after herself , said her mother 'she often goes off in this way like a true child of the wilderness . 
But Mr Mackenzie , who came in just then and saw the note for the first time , looked rather grave , though he said nothing . 
'I fear it would be of no use , he answered . 
'She may be fifteen miles off by now , and it is impossible to say what path she has taken . 
As for the view , it was simply glorious . 
It is a glorious country , and only wants the hand of civilized man to make it a most productive one . 
But look as we would , we could see no signs of Flossie and her donkey , so at last we had to come down disappointed . 
On reaching the veranda I found Umslopogaas sitting there , slowly and lightly sharpening his axe with a small whetstone he always carried with him . 
'What doest thou , Umslopogaas ? I asked . 
'I smell blood , was the answer and I could get no more out of him . 
After dinner we again went up the tree and searched the surrounding country with a spyglass , but without result . 
When we came down Umslopogaas was still sharpening Inkosi kaas , although she already had an edge like a razor . 
Standing in front of him , and regarding him with a mixture of fear and fascination , was Alphonse . 
'Oh , the monster , the horrible man ! said the little French cook , lifting his hands in amazement . 
For a moment Umslopogaas looked up from his sharpening , and a sort of evil light played in his dark eyes . 
'What does the little buffalo heifer so named by Umslopogaas , on account of his mustachios and feminine characteristics say ? Let him be careful , or I will cut his horns . 
Beware , little man monkey , beware ! Unfortunately Alphonse , who was getting over his fear of him , went on laughing at 'ce drole d'un monsieur noir' . 
Then followed the most extraordinary display of sword , or rather of axemanship , that I ever saw . 
For a minute or more this went on , till suddenly I saw the moving brightness travel down the side of Alphonse's face , and then outwards and stop . 
As it did so a tuft of something black fell to the ground it was the tip of one of the little Frenchman's curling mustachios . 
'Inkosi kaas is sharp enough , he shouted 'the blow that clipped the buffalo heifer's horn would have split a man from the crown to the chin . 
Few could have struck it but I none could have struck it and not taken off the shoulder too . 
Look , thou little heifer ! Am I a good man to laugh at , thinkest thou ? For a space hast thou stood within a hair's breadth of death . 
Laugh not again , lest the hair's breadth be wanting . 
'What meanest thou by such mad tricks ? I asked of Umslopogaas , indignantly . 
Twenty times didst thou go near to slaying the man . 
'And yet , Macumazahn , I slew not . 
Thrice as Inkosi kaas flew the spirit entered into me to end him , and send her crashing through his skull but I did not . 
Before the battle hast thou not seen the vulture grow of a sudden in the sky ? They smell the blood , Macumazahn , and my scent is more keen than theirs . 
There is a dry ox hide down yonder I go to make a shield . 
'That is an uncomfortable retainer of yours , said Mr Mackenzie , who had witnessed this extraordinary scene . 
'I don't think that he will ever laugh at le monsieur noir again . 
'Yes , answered I , 'it is ill jesting with such as he . 
When he is roused he is like a fiend , and yet he has a kind heart in his own fierce way . 
I remember years ago seeing him nurse a sick child for a week . 
He is a strange character , but true as steel , and a strong stick to rest on in danger . 
'He says he smells blood , said Mr Mackenzie . 
'I only trust he is not right . 
I am getting very fearful about my little girl . 
She must have gone far , or she would be home by now . 
It is half past three o'clock . 
They had , however , scoured the country far and wide , but without success . 
After this the afternoon wore drearily on , and towards evening , there still being no signs of Flossie , our anxiety grew very keen . 
As for the poor mother , she was quite prostrated by her fears , and no wonder , but the father kept his head wonderfully well . 
Everything that could be done was done people were sent out in all directions , shots were fired , and a continuous outlook kept from the great tree , but without avail . 
And then it grew dark , and still no sign of fair haired little Flossie . 
At eight o'clock we had supper . 
It was but a sorrowful meal , and Mrs Mackenzie did not appear at it . 
When supper was nearly at an end I made an excuse to leave the table . 
I wanted to get outside and think the situation over . 
I had been sitting there perhaps six or seven minutes when I thought I heard the door move . 
I looked in that direction and I listened , but , being unable to make out anything , concluded that I must have been mistaken . 
It was a darkish night , the moon not having yet risen . 
Another minute passed , when suddenly something round fell with a soft but heavy thud upon the stone flooring of the veranda , and came bounding and rolling along past me . 
For a moment I did not rise , but sat wondering what it could be . 
Finally , I concluded it must have been an animal . 
Just then , however , another idea struck me , and I got up quick enough . 
The thing lay quite still a few feet beyond me . 
I put down my hand towards it and it did not move clearly it was not an animal . 
It was soft and warm and heavy . 
Hurriedly I lifted it and held it up against the faint starlight . 
IT WAS A NEWLY SEVERED HUMAN HEAD ! I am an old hand and not easily upset , but I own that that ghastly sight made me feel sick . 
How had the thing come there ? Whose was it ? I put it down and ran to the little doorway . 
I could see nothing , hear nobody . 
Then I returned to the veranda , and in as careless a voice as I could command called Curtis . 
I fear , however , that my tones must have betrayed me , for not only Sir Henry but also Good and Mackenzie rose from the table and came hurrying out . 
'What is it ? said the clergyman , anxiously . 
Then I had to tell them . 
Mr Mackenzie turned pale as death under his red skin . 
We were standing opposite the hall door , and there was a light in it so that I could see . 
He snatched the head up by the hair and held it against the light . 
'It is the head of one of the men who accompanied Flossie , he said with a gasp . 
'Thank God it is not hers ! We all stood and stared at each other aghast . 
He was one of the spies who had been sent out . 
My father , make strong thy heart ! In the midst of them I saw the white ass , and on it sat the Water lily Flossie . 
An Elmoran young warrior led the ass , and by its side walked the nurse weeping . 
The men who went with her in the morning I saw not . 
'Was the child alive ? asked Mr Mackenzie , hoarsely . 
'She was white as the snow , but well , my father . 
They passed quite close to me , and looking up from where I lay hid I saw her face against the sky . 
'God help her and us ! groaned the clergyman . 
'How many are there of them ? I asked . 
'More than two hundred two hundred and half a hundred . 
Once more we looked one on the other . 
What was to be done ? Just then there rose a loud insistent cry outside the wall . 
'Open the door , white man open the door ! A herald a herald to speak with thee . 
Umslopogaas ran to the wall , and , reaching with his long arms to the coping , lifted his head above it and gazed over . 
'I see but one man , he said . 
'He is armed , and carries a basket in his hand . 
'Open the door , I said . 
'Umslopogaas , take thine axe and stand thereby . 
If another follows , slay . 
In the shadow of the wall stood Umslopogaas , his axe raised above his head to strike . 
Just then the moon came out . 
The moonlight shone bright upon his great spear as he walked . 
He was physically a splendid man , apparently about thirty five years of age . 
Indeed , none of the Masai that I saw were under six feet high , though mostly quite young . 
When he got opposite to us he halted , put down the basket , and stuck the spike of his spear into the ground , so that it stood upright . 
'Let us talk , he said . 
'Say on , said Mr Mackenzie . 
'I am the Lygonani war captain of a part of the Masai of the Guasa Amboni . 
I and my men followed these three white men , and he pointed to Sir Henry , Good , and myself , 'but they were too clever for us , and escaped hither . 
We have a quarrel with them , and are going to kill them . 
'Are you , my friend ? said I to myself . 
'In following these men we this morning caught two black men , one black woman , a white donkey , and a white girl . 
One of the black men we killed there is his head upon the pavement the other ran away . 
The black woman , the little white girl , and the white ass we took and brought with us . 
In proof thereof have I brought this basket that she carried . 
Is it not thy daughter's basket ? Mr Mackenzie nodded , and the warrior went on . 
The Masai Elmoran or young warriors can own no property , so all the booty they may win in battle belongs to their fathers alone . 
A. Q. Here Mr Mackenzie gave a groan , as he greatly valued this herd of cattle , which he bred with much care and trouble . 
'So , save for the cattle , thou mayst go free more especially , he added frankly , glancing at the wall , 'as this place would be a difficult one to take . 
But as to these men it is otherwise we have followed them for nights and days , and must kill them . 
Were we to return to our kraal without having done so , all the girls would make a mock of us . 
So , however troublesome it may be , they must die . 
'Now I have a proposition for thee . 
We would not harm the little girl she is too fair to harm , and has besides a brave spirit . 
Give us one of these three men a life for a life and we will let her go , and throw in the black woman with her also . 
This is a fair offer , white man . 
We ask but for one , not for the three we must take another opportunity to kill the other two . 
I do not even pick my man , though I should prefer the big one , pointing to Sir Henry 'he looks strong , and would die more slowly . 
'And if I say I will not yield the man ? said Mr Mackenzie . 
'Nay , say not so , white man , answered the Masai , 'for then thy daughter dies at dawn , and the woman with her says thou hast no other child . 
Were she older I would take her for a servant but as she is so young I will slay her with my own hand ay , with this very spear . 
Thou canst come and see , an' thou wilt . 
I give thee a safe conduct and the fiend laughed aloud as his brutal jest . 
Meanwhile I had been thinking rapidly , as one does in emergencies , and had come to the conclusion that I would exchange myself against Flossie . 
I scarcely like to mention the matter for fear it should be misunderstood . 
Pray do not let any one be misled into thinking that there was anything heroic about this , or any such nonsense . 
It was merely a matter of common sense and common justice . 
My life was an old and worthless one , hers was young and valuable . 
Her death would pretty well kill her father and mother also , whilst nobody would be much the worse for mine indeed , several charitable institutions would have cause to rejoice thereat . 
It was indirectly through me that the dear little girl was in her present position . 
Lastly , a man was better fitted to meet death in such a peculiarly awful form than a sweet young girl . 
All this and more went through my mind in very few seconds . 
'Eh ? said Sir Henry and Good simultaneously . 
'No , no , said Mr Mackenzie . 
'I will have no man's blood upon my hands . 
If it please God that my daughter should die this awful death , His will be done . 
and a noble man , Quatermain , but you shall not go . 
'If nothing else turns up I shall go , I said decidedly . 
'This is an important matter , said Mackenzie , addressing the Lygonani , 'and we must think it over . 
You shall have our answer at dawn . 
It is not wise , white man , he added with a laugh , 'to keep so small a garrison for you boma kraal . 
Well , good night , and good night to you also , other white men , whose eyelids I shall soon close once and for all . 
At dawn thou wilt bring me word . 
If not , remember it shall be as I have said . 
Then turning to Umslopogaas , who had all the while been standing behind him and shepherding him as it were , 'Open the door for me , fellow , quick now . 
This was too much for the old chief's patience . 
For the last ten minutes his lips had been , figuratively speaking , positively watering over the Masai Lygonani , and this he could not stand . 
Placing his long hand on the Elmoran's shoulder he gripped it and gave him such a twist as brought him face to face with himself . 
'And seest thou this ? and he held Inkosi kaas before his eyes . 
Well for thee that thou art a herald , or even now would I strew thy members about the grass . 
'Thou shalt stand against me man to man , be not afraid , replied Umslopogaas , still in the same ominous voice . 
Ay , laugh on , laugh on ! tomorrow night shall the jackals laugh as they crunch thy ribs . 
When the Lygonani had gone , one of us thought of opening the basket he had brought as a proof that Flossie was really their prisoner . 
I tried to escape but could not . 
They killed Tom the other man ran away . 
They have not hurt nurse and me , but say that they mean to exchange us against one of Mr Quatermain's party . 
I WILL HAVE NOTHING OF THE SORT . 
Do not let anybody give his life for me . 
Try and attack them at night they are going to feast on three bullocks they have stolen and killed . 
I have my pistol , and if no help comes by dawn I will shoot myself . 
They shall not kill me . 
If so , remember me always , dearest father and mother . 
I am very frightened , but I trust in God . 
I dare not write any more as they are beginning to notice . 
Scrawled across the outside of this was 'Love to Mr Quatermain . 
They are going to take the basket , so he will get the lily . 
Then eagerly , quickly , almost fiercely , we fell to discussing the situation . 
'It is , I said at last , 'absolutely necessary that an effort of some sort should be made before the morning . 
'Then let us attack them with what force we can muster , and take our chance , said Sir Henry . 
'Ay , ay , growled Umslopogaas , in Zulu 'spoken like a man , Incubu . 
Listen now , Macumazahn , thou who art very clever and old in war . 
What says the maid ? These men eat and make merry let it be their funeral feast . 
What said the dog whom I hope to hew down at daybreak ? That he feared no attack because we were so few . 
Why , Incubu , thou and I with axes will hold it against an hundred men striving to break out ! Look , now thus shall the battle go . 
Let them silently slay the sentry there so that he makes no sound , and stand ready . 
It is there that the rush will come . 
That will leave sixteen men . 
Then shall Bougwan at the far end and his ten men raise the war cry , and , springing over the wall , put the Masai there to the sword . 
Such is my plan , Macumazahn if thou hast a better , name it . 
'Ay , ay , Macumazahn , he answered . 
'For thirty years have I been a warrior , and have seen many things . 
It will be a good fight . 
I smell blood I tell thee , I smell blood . 
Other lads and even women were stationed at intervals along the wall in order to guard against the possibility of surprise . 
Indeed , it formed a very impressive scene one not likely to be forgotten by anybody who witnessed it . 
Next to him was his poor wife , who , seated on a chair , had her face hidden in her hand . 
Ye have seen my child the Water lily , as ye call her grow year by year , from tenderest infancy to tender childhood , and from childhood on towards maidenhood . 
She has been your children's playmate , she has helped to tend you when sick , and ye have loved her . 
'We have , said a deep voice , 'and we will die to save her . 
'I thank you from my heart I thank you . 
Think , too , of your own wives and children . 
I am , as ye well know , a man of peace . 
'Say no more , my father , said the same deep voice , that belonged to a stalwart elder of the Mission 'we swear it . 
We swear ! 'Ay , thus say we all , chimed in the others . 
'Thus say we all , said I. 'It is well , went on Mr Mackenzie . 
'Ye are true men and not broken reeds to lean on . 
And he knelt down , an example that we all followed except Umslopogaas , who still stood in the background , grimly leaning on Inkosi kaas . 
The fierce old Zulu had no gods and worshipped nought , unless it were his battleaxe . 
When we go forth into the shadow of death , make Thou us strong to conquer . 
Go forth , oh Father , go forth with us into the battle , as with the Israelites of old . 
Oh God of battle , hear Thou our prayer ! He ceased , and after a moment's silence we all rose , and then began our preparations in good earnest . 
As Umslopogaas said , it was time to stop 'talking' and get to business . 
The men who were to form each little party were carefully selected , and still more carefully and minutely instructed as to what was to be done . 
We had with us four Winchester repeating rifles , besides half a dozen Martinis . 
Mr Mackenzie took another , and the two remaining ones were given to two of his men who understood the use of them and were noted shots . 
As for Umslopogaas , we know how he was armed with an axe . 
Of course , for such a purpose as this guns were useless . 
Therefore Sir Henry and the Askari proceeded to arm themselves in like fashion . 
It so happened that Mr Mackenzie had in his little store a selection of the very best and English made hammer backed axe heads . 
Sir Henry selected one of these weighing about two and a half pounds and very broad in the blade , and the Askari took another a size smaller . 
The result of this was to swell the wood in the socket in such a fashion that nothing short of burning would get it out again . 
The workmanship was exceedingly fine , the web being composed of thousands upon thousands of stout but tiny rings of the best steel made . 
Sir Henry had two , one of the ordinary make , viz . 
With these shirts were what looked like four brown cloth travelling caps with ear pieces . 
Each of these caps was , however , quilted with steel links so as to afford a most valuable protection for the head . 
He readily consented , and called the Zulu , who came bearing Sir Henry's axe , which he had now fixed up to his satisfaction , with him . 
And indeed , although made for Sir Henry , it fitted the great Zulu like a skin . 
Umslopogaas had , comparatively speaking , thin arms , but they were as strong as wire ropes . 
Her feet were bound with a rope , and warriors were lying about all round her . 
As there was absolutely nothing further that could be done then we all took some supper , and went to lie down for a couple of hours . 
I could not help admiring the way in which old Umslopogaas flung himself upon the floor , and , unmindful of what was hanging over him , instantly sank into a deep sleep . 
I do not know how it was with the others , but I could not do as much . 
The bed whereon I lay indulging in these uncomfortable reflections was near an open window that looked on to the veranda , through which came an extraordinary sound of groaning and weeping . 
For a time I could not make out what it was , but at last I got up and , putting my head out of the window , stared about . 
Presently I saw a dim figure kneeling on the end of the veranda and beating his breast in which I recognized Alphonse . 
Not being able to understand his French talk or what on earth he was at , I called to him and asked him what he was doing . 
'Ah , monsieur , he sighed , 'I do make prayer for the souls of those whom I shall slay tonight . 
'Indeed , I said , 'then I wish that you would do it a little more quietly . 
Alphonse retreated , and I heard no more of his groans . 
'Three o'clock , he said 'we must begin to move at half past . 
'Ah , my friend , he said , seeing me staring at his belt , 'you are looking at my carver . 
I thought it might come in handy if we came to close quarters it is excellent steel , and many is the pig I have killed with it . 
By this time everybody was up and dressing . 
I put on a light Norfolk jacket over my mail shirt in order to have a pocket handy to hold my cartridges , and buckled on my revolver . 
His revolver he strapped on round his middle outside the armoured shirt . 
Meanwhile Umslopogaas was mustering the men in the square under the big tree and going the rounds to see that each was properly armed , etc . 
At the last moment we made one change . 
CHAPTER VII A SLAUGHTER GRIM AND GREAT Then there was a pause , and we stood there in the chilly silent darkness waiting till the moment came to start . 
It was , perhaps , the most trying time of all that slow , slow quarter of an hour . 
Only Umslopogaas , leaning as usual upon Inkosi kaas and taking an occasional pinch of snuff , was to all appearance perfectly and completely unmoved . 
Nothing could touch his iron nerves . 
For a long while she had been getting nearer and nearer to the horizon . 
Now she finally sank and left the world in darkness save for a faint grey tinge in the eastern sky that palely heralded the dawn . 
Mr Mackenzie stood , watch in hand , his wife clinging to his arm and striving to stifle her sobs . 
'Twenty minutes to four , he said , 'it ought to be light enough to attack at twenty minutes past four . 
Captain Good had better be moving , he will want three or four minutes' start . 
Then the rest of us took the road . 
First came the guide , then Sir Henry , Umslopogaas , the Wakwafi Askari , and Mr Mackenzie's two mission natives armed with long spears and shields . 
I followed immediately after with Alphonse and five natives all armed with guns , and Mr Mackenzie brought up the rear with the six remaining natives . 
'If you don't stop that I will kill you , I whispered savagely for the idea of having all our lives sacrificed to a tooth chattering cook was too much for me . 
I began to fear that he would betray us , and heartily wished we had left him behind . 
'But , monsieur , I cannot help it , he answered , 'it is the cold . 
Here was a dilemma , but fortunately I devised a plan . 
In the pocket of the coat I had on was a small piece of dirty rag that I had used some time before to clean a gun with . 
'Put this in your mouth , I whispered again , giving him the rag 'and if I hear another sound you are a dead man . 
I knew that that would stifle the clatter of his teeth . 
I must have looked as if I meant what I said , for he instantly obeyed me , and continued his journey in silence . 
Then we crept on again . 
At last we were within fifty yards of the kraal . 
Between us and it was an open space of sloping grass with only one mimosa bush and a couple of tussocks of a sort of thistle for cover . 
We were still hidden in fairly thick bush . 
It was beginning to grow light . 
The stars had paled and a sickly gleam played about the east and was reflected on the earth . 
We could see the outline of the kraal clearly enough , and could also make out the faint glimmer of the dying embers of the Masai camp fires . 
We halted and watched , for the sentry we knew was posted at the opening . 
Presently he appeared , a fine tall fellow , walking idly up and down within five paces of the thorn stopped entrance . 
We had hoped to catch him napping , but it was not to be . 
He seemed particularly wide awake . 
If we could not kill that man , and kill him silently , we were lost . 
There we crouched and watched him . 
The unconscious sentry commenced to hum a little tune , and Umslopogaas crept on . 
He reached the shelter of the mimosa bush unperceived and there waited . 
Still the sentry walked up and down . 
Presently he turned and looked over the wall into the camp . 
Instantly the human snake who was stalking him glided on ten yards and got behind one of the tussocks of the thistle like plant , reaching it as the Elmoran turned again . 
As he did so his eye fell upon this patch of thistles , and it seemed to strike him that it did not look quite right . 
He advanced a pace towards it halted , yawned , stooped down , picked up a little pebble and threw it at it . 
It hit Umslopogaas upon the head , luckily not upon the armour shirt . 
Had it done so the clink would have betrayed us . 
Luckily , too , the shirt was browned and not bright steel , which would certainly have been detected . 
Apparently satisfied that there was nothing wrong , he then gave over his investigations and contented himself with leaning on his spear and standing gazing idly at the tuft . 
I could hear Alphonse's teeth going like anything on the oiled rag , and turning my head round made an awful face at him . 
At last the ordeal came to an end . 
The moment his back was turned the long black snake glided on again , and reached the other thistle tuft , which was within a couple of paces of his return beat . 
Back came the sentry and strolled right past the tuft , utterly unconscious of the presence that was crouching behind it . 
Had he looked down he could scarcely have failed to see , but he did not do so . 
He passed , and then his hidden enemy erected himself , and with outstretched hand followed in his tracks . 
Umslopogaas had put out all his iron strength and broken the warrior's neck . 
So much the better for us , I reflected the more obstruction there was the slower would they be able to come through . 
I and my men crept on up the right side of the kraal , which was about fifty paces long . 
When I was two thirds up I halted , and placed my men at distances of four paces from one another , keeping Alphonse close to me , however . 
Then I peeped for the first time over the wall . 
Round her lay many warriors , sleeping . 
At distances all over the surface of the kraal were the remains of fires , round each of which slept some five and twenty Masai , for the most part gorged with food . 
Now and then a man would raise himself , yawn , and look at the east , which was turning primrose but none got up . 
The rag had dropped out in the agitation of his mind . 
Instantly a Masai within three paces of us woke , and , sitting up , gazed about him , looking for the cause of the sound . 
Moved beyond myself , I brought the butt end of my rifle down on to the pit of the Frenchman's stomach . 
This stopped his chattering but , as he doubled up , he managed to let off his gun in such a manner that the bullet passed within an inch of my head . 
There was no need for a signal now . 
As they went we kept pouring our fire with terrible effect into the thickening mob as fast as we could load . 
I had emptied my repeater of the ten shots it contained and was just beginning to slip in some more when I bethought me of little Flossie . 
Looking up , I saw that the white donkey was lying kicking , having been knocked over either by one of our bullets or a Masai spear thrust . 
There were no living Masai near , but the black nurse was on her feet and with a spear cutting the rope that bound Flossie's feet . 
Next second she ran to the wall of the kraal and began to climb over it , an example which the little girl followed . 
The first fellow came up just as the poor little girl , after a desperate effort to climb the wall , fell back into the kraal . 
Up flashed the great spear , and as it did so a bullet from my rifle found its home in the holder's ribs , and over he went like a shot rabbit . 
I turned my head aside and felt sick as death . 
I could not bear to see him stab her . 
Glancing up again , to my surprise I saw the Masai's spear lying on the ground , while the man himself was staggering about with both hands to his head . 
Suddenly I saw a puff of smoke proceeding apparently from Flossie , and the man fell down headlong . 
Then I remembered the Derringer pistol she carried , and saw that she had fired both barrels of it at him , thereby saving her life . 
All this takes time to tell , but I do not suppose that it took more than fifteen seconds to enact . 
Faster and more furious grew the fighting . 
Presently there was a great swing of the axe , a crashing sound , and another dead Masai . 
That is , if the man was engaged with Sir Henry . 
If it was Umslopogaas that he fought with the result indeed would be the same , but it would be differently attained . 
I could never make out why he was called so until I saw him in action with Inkosi kaas , when I at once recognized the resemblance . 
A. Q. pecks at rotten wood . 
He never used the broad blade of the axe except when hard pressed , or when striking at a shield . 
He told me afterwards that he did not consider it sportsmanlike . 
And now it was that we began to lose men fast . 
For a moment I feared the fight was lost certainly it trembled in the balance . 
I shouted to my men to cast down their rifles , and to take spears and throw themselves into the meleee . 
They obeyed , their blood being now thoroughly up , and Mr Mackenzie's people followed their example . 
This move had a momentary good result , but still the fight hung in the balance . 
Our people fought magnificently , hurling themselves upon the dark mass of Elmoran , hewing , thrusting , slaying , and being slain . 
Even Umslopogaas , man of iron that he was , was hard pressed . 
I myself did not go into the melee , but hovered outside like the swift 'back' in a football scrimmage , putting a bullet through a Masai whenever I got a chance . 
I was more use so . 
I fired forty nine cartridges that morning , and I did not miss many shots . 
Presently , do as we would , the beam of the balance began to rise against us . 
We had not more than fifteen or sixteen effectives left now , and the Masai had at least fifty . 
Still by now many individuals were fighting with their normal courage and discretion , and this alone was sufficient to defeat us . 
To make matters worse just then , when Mackenzie's rifle was empty , a brawny savage armed with a 'sime' , or sword , made a rush for him . 
, they closed in desperate struggle . 
To and fro surged the fight , slowly turning round like the vortex of a human whirlpool , and the matter began to look very bad for us . 
Just then , however , a fortunate thing happened . 
Umslopogaas , either by accident or design , broke out of the ring and engaged a warrior at some few paces from it . 
I cut short his career with a bullet , and Umslopogaas brained his man , and then the panic spread to the others . 
'BEWITCHED , BEWITCHED ! they cried , and tried to escape in every direction , utterly demoralized and broken spirited , for the most part even throwing down their shields and spears . 
On the last scene of that dreadful fight I need not dwell . 
It was a slaughter great and grim , in which no quarter was asked or given . 
One incident , however , is worth detailing . 
Finding that , run as he would , his pursuer was gaining on him , the man halted and turned round to give battle . 
Behold , I will do it even now ! The Masai ground his teeth with fury , and charged at the Zulu with his spear . 
'OU ! ejaculated Umslopogaas , contemplating the corpse of his foe 'I have kept my word . 
It was a good stroke . 
CHAPTER VIII ALPHONSE EXPLAINS And so the fight was ended . 
Now some fifteen paces back from the kraal wall stood a very ancient tree of the banyan species . 
So ancient was it that all the inside had in the course of ages decayed away , leaving nothing but a shell of bark . 
'Alphonse , I called , as I walked down the wall . 
'Alphonse ! 'Oui , monsieur , answered a voice . 
'Here am I. I looked round but could see nobody . 
'Here am I , monsieur , in the tree . 
Then , for the first time , I realized what I had suspected before namely , that Alphonse was an arrant coward . 
I walked up to him . 
'Come out of that hole , I said . 
'So , monsieur , then my prayers have prevailed ? I emerge , and he did . 
Off went Alphonse with a howl of terror , and after him flew the Masai , bent upon doing some execution before he died . 
But just then he tripped and fell flat , and the body of the Masai fell right on the top of him , moving convulsively in the death struggle . 
Thereupon there arose such a series of piercing howls that I concluded that before he died the savage must have managed to stab poor Alphonse . 
I ran up in a hurry and pulled the Masai off , and there beneath him lay Alphonse covered with blood and jerking himself about like a galvanized frog . 
Poor fellow ! thought I , he is done for , and kneeling down by him I began to search for his wound as well as his struggles would allow . 
'Oh , the hole in my back ! he yelled . 
Oh , Annette ! I searched again , but could see no wound . 
Then the truth dawned on me the man was frightened , not hurt . 
'Get up ! I shouted , 'Get up . 
Aren't you ashamed of yourself ? You are not touched . 
Thereupon he rose , not a penny the worse . 
'But , monsieur , I thought I was , he said apologetically 'I did not know that I had conquered . 
But there , fate puts us sometimes into very comical positions ! At the kraal entrance the scene was a strange one . 
The slaughter was over by now , and the wounded men had been put out of their pain , for no quarter had been given . 
The bush closed entrance was trampled flat , and in place of bushes it was filled with the bodies of dead men . 
were wounded , two mortally . 
Of those who held the entrance , Curtis and the Zulu alone remained . 
Good had lost five men killed , I had lost two killed , and Mackenzie no less than five out of the six with him . 
'Ah , Macumazahn ! he said to me as I limped up , feeling very sick , 'I told thee that it would be a good fight , and it has . 
Never have I seen a better , or one more bravely fought . 
As for this iron shirt , surely it is tagati bewitched nothing could pierce it . 
Had it not been for the garment I should have been THERE , and he nodded towards the great pile of dead men beneath him . 
'I give it thee thou art a brave man , said Sir Henry , briefly . 
'Koos ! answered the Zulu , deeply pleased both at the gift and the compliment . 
'Thou , too , Incubu , didst bear thyself as a man , but I must give thee some lessons with the axe thou dost waste thy strength . 
Just then Mackenzie asked about Flossie , and we were all greatly relieved when one of the men said he had seen her flying towards the house with the nurse . 
At the gate of the wall stood Mrs Mackenzie waiting for us . 
she came up to me and solemnly kissed me on the forehead . 
'God bless you all , Mr Quatermain you have saved my child's life , she said simply . 
Mackenzie's , however , were serious , though fortunately the spear had not severed any large artery . 
As Good said , the whole thing seemed more as though one had had a bad nightmare just before being called , than as a deed done . 
When we were finishing our breakfast the door opened , and in came little Flossie , very pale and tottery , but quite unhurt . 
She kissed us all and thanked us . 
I congratulated her on the presence of mind she had shown in shooting the Masai with her Derringer pistol , and thereby saving her own life . 
I advised her to go to bed and get some sleep , which she did , and awoke in the evening quite recovered , so far as her strength was concerned . 
Poor Flossie ! I fear that her nerves will not get over that night in the Masai camp for many a long year . 
It was an awful resolution to have to take , but she meant to act on it , and I have little doubt but what she would have done so . 
On reaching the spot we disturbed thousands upon thousands of vultures and a sort of brown bush eagle , which had been flocking to the feast from miles and miles away . 
Often have I watched these great and repulsive birds , and marvelled at the extraordinary speed with which they arrive on a scene of slaughter . 
A buck falls to your rifle , and within a minute high in the blue ether appears a speck that gradually grows into a vulture , then another , and another . 
I have heard many theories advanced to account for the wonderful power of perception nature has given these birds . 
Presently one of them spies food , and instantly begins to sink towards it . 
Thereon his next neighbour in the airy heights sailing leisurely through the blue gulf , at a distance perhaps of some miles , follows his example , knowing that food has been sighted . 
Down he goes , and all the vultures within sight of him follow after , and so do all those in sight of them . 
In this way the vultures for twenty miles round can be summoned to the feast in a few minutes . 
, as he was generally allowed to possess the best voice and most impressive manner . 
It was melancholy in the extreme , but , as Good said , it might have been worse , for we might have had 'to bury ourselves' . 
I pointed out that this would have been a difficult feat , but I knew what he meant . 
We loaded the wagon five times , about fifty bodies to the load , and emptied it into the Tana . 
From this it was evident that very few of the Masai could have escaped . 
The crocodiles must have been well fed that night . 
One of the last bodies we picked up was that of the sentry at the upper end . 
I asked Good how he managed to kill him , and he told me that he had crept up much as Umslopogaas had done , and stabbed him with his sword . 
He groaned a good deal , but fortunately nobody heard him . 
As Good said , it was a horrible thing to have to do , and most unpleasantly like cold blooded murder . 
And so with the last body that floated away down the current of the Tana ended the incident of our attack on the Masai camp . 
The spears and shields and other arms we took up to the Mission , where they filled an outhouse . 
One incident , however , I must not forget to mention . 
As we were returning from performing the obsequies of our Masai friends we passed the hollow tree where Alphonse had secreted himself in the morning . 
It so happened that the little man himself was with us assisting in our unpleasant task with a far better will than he had shown where live Masai were concerned . 
Indeed , for each body that he handled he found an appropriate sarcasm . 
Alphonse throwing Masai into the Tana was a very different creature from Alphonse flying for dear life from the spear of a live Masai . 
In short , thinking that he wanted taking down a peg , I suggested holding a court martial on him for his conduct in the morning . 
But if we expected to find Alphonse at a loss and put him to open shame we were destined to be disappointed . 
But he did nothing of the sort he determined to keep it there till , alas ! his stomach 'revolted' , and the rag was ejected in an access of involuntary sickness . 
'And what have you to say about getting into the hollow tree ? asked Sir Henry , keeping his countenance with difficulty . 
I watched whilst recovering myself from monsieur's cruel blow then , messieurs , I felt the heroic blood of my grandfather boil up in my veins . 
The sight made me mad . 
I ground my teeth ! Fire flashed from my eyes ! I shouted En avant ! and longed to slay . 
Their gore was not upon my head . 
'You see , Quatermain , he said , 'I made up my mind to it , this very morning , when we were creeping down those benighted savages . 
If we live through this and rescue Flossie alive , I said to myself , I will go home to England I have had enough of savages . 
Another such time would kill my poor wife . 
'I congratulate you on your decision , answered I , 'for two reasons . 
The other is , that as sure as I am standing here , sooner or later the Masai will try to avenge the slaughter inflicted on them today . 
It might be delayed for a year , but sooner or later it will come . 
Therefore , if only for that reason , I should go . 
When once they have learnt that you are no longer here they may perhaps leave the place alone . 
These are , I believe , the first white people who are known to have fallen victims to this cruel tribe . 
'You are quite right , answered the clergyman . 
'I will turn my back upon this place in a month . 
But it will be a wrench , it will be a wrench . 
Mr Mackenzie's caravan of men had also returned from the coast , so that the station was now amply garrisoned . 
should from their own pleasure start out upon a wild goose chase , from which the chances were they never would return . 
'Adventurer' he that goes out to meet whatever may come . 
Not that we three can expect to be numbered with such as these , yet have we done something enough , perhaps , to throw a garment over the nakedness of our folly . 
The reason , however , soon appeared . 
Mr Mackenzie was going down to the coast , and thence on to England . 
Now , if he went down country , Alphonse was persuaded that he would be seized , extradited , sent to France , and to penal servitude . 
This was the idea that haunted him , as King Charles's head haunted Mr Dick , and he brooded over it till his imagination exaggerated the danger ten times . 
After listening to what he had to say , we consulted among ourselves , and finally agreed , with Mr Mackenzie's knowledge and consent , to accept his offer . 
Of course , his being so pronounced a coward was a great drawback to him , but now that we knew his weakness we could more or less guard against it . 
We also promised to give him wages at the rate of ten pounds a month should he ever return to a civilized country to receive them . 
To all of this he agreed with alacrity , and retired to write a letter to his Annette , which Mr Mackenzie promised to post when he got down country . 
He read it to us afterwards , Sir Henry translating , and a wonderful composition it was . 
Well , the morrow came , and by seven o'clock the donkeys were all loaded , and the time of parting was at hand . 
It was a melancholy business , especially saying goodbye to dear little Flossie . 
'Oh , Mr Quatermain , she cried , throwing her arms round my neck and bursting into tears , 'I can't bear to say goodbye to you . 
I wonder when we shall meet again ? 'I don't know , my dear little girl , I said , 'I am at one end of life and you are at the other . 
And now I have given you a lot of old fashioned advice , and so I am going to give you something to sweeten it with . 
You see this little piece of paper . 
It is what is called a cheque . 
When we are gone give it to your father with this note not before , mind . 
Poor little Flossie cried very much , and gave me a lock of her bright hair in return , which I still have . 
at parting with his master and mistress and I was not sorry for it at all , for I hate those goodbyes . 
Perhaps the most affecting thing of all was to witness Umslopogaas' distress at parting with Flossie , for whom the grim old warrior had conceived a strong affection . 
And that was the last we saw of the pleasant Mission house a true oasis in the desert and of European civilization . 
But I often think of the Mackenzies , and wonder how they got down country , and if they are now safe and well in England , and will ever see these words . 
And so goodbye to Flossie . 
There we rested a fortnight , and then started out into the trackless and uninhabited forest of a vast district called Elgumi . 
In this forest alone there are more elephants than I ever met with or heard with before . 
So we let the great beasts be , only shooting one or two in self protection . 
Occasionally , when the inspection did not prove satisfactory , the staring ended in a trumpet and a charge , but this did not often happen . 
When it did we had to use our rifles . 
Nor were elephants the only wild beasts in the great Elgumi forest . 
All sorts of large game abounded , including lions confound them ! I have always hated the sight of a lion since one bit my leg and lamed me for life . 
As a consequence , another thing that abounded was the dreadful tsetse fly , whose bite is death to domestic animals . 
Thence we pushed on nearly a month's journey over great rolling uplands , something like those in the Transvaal , but diversified by patches of bush country . 
All this time we were continually ascending at the rate of about one hundred feet every ten miles . 
Indeed , for the first three days of our stay there we saw little or nothing of the scenery on account of an unmistakable Scotch mist which prevailed . 
It was this rain that set the tsetse poison working in our remaining donkeys , so that they all died . 
This disaster left us in a very awkward position , as we had now no means of transport whatever , though on the other hand we had not much to carry . 
Ammunition , too , was very short , amounting to but one hundred and fifty rounds of rifle cartridges and some fifty shot gun cartridges . 
How to get on we did not know indeed it seemed to us that we had about reached the end of our tether . 
Whilst we were speculating about this , Sir Henry pointed out a flock of large white swans , which were feeding on the drift some little way ahead of us . 
Now I had already noticed swans flying about this lake , and , having never come across them before in Africa , was exceedingly anxious to obtain a specimen . 
Next I asked them if they had ever heard of white people like ourselves living on the farther side of the mountains and the thorn forest , whereat they laughed . 
Little did I guess in what an almost miraculous way my desire was to be gratified . 
Up rose the rest , thirty or more of them , with a mighty splashing and , as they did so , he gave them the other barrel . 
Down came one fellow with a broken wing , and I saw the leg of another drop and a few feathers start out of his back but he went on quite strong . 
Towards this arch our poor servant was being sucked with frightful rapidity . 
He was not more than ten fathoms from it , and we were about twenty when I saw it , and with little help from us the canoe flew along after him . 
At the same moment I felt our canoe seized as with a mighty hand , and propelled with resistless force towards the rock . 
We realized our danger now and rowed , or rather paddled , furiously in our attempt to get out of the vortex . 
In vain in another second we were flying straight for the arch like an arrow , and I thought that we were lost . 
In another instant there was a grinding noise , and the boat was pushed down till the water began to trickle over the sides , and I thought that we were gone . 
But no , suddenly the grinding ceased , and we could again feel the canoe flying along . 
I turned my head a little I dared not lift it and looked up . 
By the feeble light that yet reached the canoe , I could make out that a dense arch of rock hung just over our heads , and that was all . 
One only other sound could I hear , and that was Alphonse's intermittent howl of terror coming from the centre of the canoe , and even that seemed faint and unnatural . 
Indeed , the whole thing overpowered my brain , and I began to believe that I was the victim of some ghastly spirit shaking nightmare . 
Taking up a paddle I managed to drive it into his ribs , whereon he , thinking that the end had come , howled louder than ever . 
Then I slowly and cautiously raised myself on my knees and stretched my hand upwards , but could touch no roof . 
Next I took the paddle and lifted it above my head as high as I could , but with the same result . 
I also thrust it out laterally to the right and left , but could touch nothing except water . 
Then I bethought me that there was in the boat , amongst our other remaining possessions , a bull's eye lantern and a tin of oil . 
As for the other three , Good was lying on the flat of his back , his eyeglass still fixed in his eye , and gazing blankly into the upper darkness . 
Sir Henry had his head resting on the thwarts of the canoe , and with his hand was trying to test the speed of the water . 
But when the beam of light fell upon old Umslopogaas I could really have laughed . 
I think I have said that we had put a roast quarter of water buck into the canoe . 
Thereupon he coolly cut off a chop with Inkosi kaas , and was now employed in eating it with every appearance of satisfaction . 
As he afterwards explained , he thought that he was going 'on a long journey' , and preferred to start on a full stomach . 
It reminded me of the people who are going to be hanged , and who are generally reported in the English daily papers to have made 'an excellent breakfast' . 
It was clear to us that we were in an underground river or , as Alphonse defined it , 'main drain' , which carried off the superfluous waters of the lake . 
Such rivers are well known to exist in many parts of the world , but it has not often been the evil fortune of explorers to travel by them . 
Umslopogaas , having already dined , took the first turn . 
This was absolutely , with one exception , all that we could do towards preserving our safety . 
'We have come out of so many queer scrapes together , that somehow I almost fancy we shall come out of this , he added . 
This was excellent advice , and we proceeded to take it each in our separate way that is , except Alphonse , who had by now sunk into a sort of terrified stupor . 
Good was at the helm and Umslopogaas in the bows , so there was nothing left for Sir Henry and myself to do except to lie down in the canoe and think . 
And how dark it was ! The feeble ray from our little lamp did but serve to show the darkness . 
There in the bows sat old Umslopogaas , like Pleasure in the poem , Mr Allan Quatermain misquotes Pleasure sat at the helm . 
'Well , well , thought I , 'you have come in search of adventures , Allan my boy , and you have certainly got them . 
At first , however , I am bound to say that the strain upon the nerves was very great . 
at two , having agreed that it should be of a duration of five hours . 
Of course I only give the solution of the mystery for what it is worth , which perhaps is not much . 
When I had been for three hours or so at the helm , I began to notice a decided change in the temperature , which was getting warmer . 
'Noticed it ! he answered 'I should think so . 
I am in a sort of Turkish bath . 
Just about then the others woke up gasping , and were obliged to begin to discard their clothes . 
Here Umslopogaas had the advantage , for he did not wear any to speak of , except a moocha . 
Hotter it grew , and hotter yet , till at last we could scarcely breathe , and the perspiration poured out of us . 
Half an hour more , and though we were all now stark naked , we could hardly bear it . 
The place was like an antechamber of the infernal regions proper . 
I dipped my hand into the water and drew it out almost with a cry it was nearly boiling . 
We consulted a little thermometer we had the mercury stood at degrees . 
From the surface of the water rose a dense cloud of steam . 
Alphonse groaned out that we were already in purgatory , which indeed we were , though not in the sense that he meant it . 
Our sufferings for some time after this really pass my powers of description . 
We no longer perspired , for all the perspiration had been sweated out of us . 
Our skins began to crack , and the blood to throb in our heads like the beating of a steam engine . 
Indeed this awful gas jet resembled nothing so much as a great flaming flower rising out of the black water . 
Below was the straight stalk , a foot or more thick , and above the dreadful bloom . 
And as for the fearfulness of it and its fierce and awesome beauty , who can describe it ? Certainly I cannot . 
On we rushed towards this pillar of fire , which gleamed fiercer than any furnace ever lit by man . 
'Keep the boat to the right , Quatermain to the right , shouted Sir Henry , and a minute afterwards I saw him fall forward senseless . 
Good was the next to go . 
There they lay as though dead only Umslopogaas and I kept our senses . 
We were within fifty yards of it now , and I saw the Zulu's head fall forward on his hands . 
He had gone too , and I was alone . 
I could not breathe the fierce heat dried me up . 
For yards and yards round the great rose of fire the rock roof was red hot . 
The wood of the boat was almost burning . 
I saw the feathers on one of the dead swans begin to twist and shrivel up but I would not give in . 
I knew that if I did we should pass within three or four yards of the gas jet and perish miserably . 
I set the paddle so as to turn the canoe as far from it as possible , and held on grimly . 
My eyes seemed to be bursting from my head , and through my closed lids I could see the fierce light . 
We were nearly opposite now it roared like all the fires of hell , and the water boiled furiously around it . 
We were past I heard the roar behind me . 
Then I too fell senseless . 
The next thing that I recollect is feeling a breath of air upon my face . 
My eyes opened with great difficulty . 
Far , far above me there was light , though around me was great gloom . 
Then I remembered and looked . 
The canoe still floated down the river , and in the bottom of it lay the naked forms of my companions . 
'Were they dead ? I wondered . 
'Was I left alone in this awful place ? I knew not . 
Next I became conscious of a burning thirst . 
I put my hand over the edge of the boat into the water and drew it up again with a cry . 
No wonder nearly all the skin was burnt off the back of it . 
The water , however , was cold , or nearly so , and I drank pints and splashed myself all over . 
My body seemed to suck up the fluid as one may see a brick wall suck up rain after a drought but where I was burnt the touch of it caused intense pain . 
Next they drank , absorbing water like so many sponges . 
Then , feeling chilly a queer contrast to our recent sensations we began as best we could to get into our clothes . 
As we did so Good pointed to the port side of the canoe it was all blistered with heat , and in places actually charred . 
How it first became ignited is , of course , impossible to say probably , I should think , from some spontaneous explosion of mephitic gases . 
As soon as we had got some things together and shaken ourselves together a little , we set to work to make out where we were now . 
I have said that there was light above , and on examination we found that it came from the sky . 
Up on either side rose the great straight cliffs , grim and forbidding , till the eye grew dizzy with trying to measure their sheer height . 
The little space of sky that marked where they ended lay like a thread of blue upon their soaring blackness , which was unrelieved by any tree or creeper . 
Here and there , however , grew ghostly patches of a long grey lichen , hanging motionless to the rock as the white beard to the chin of a dead man . 
It seemed as though only the dregs or heavier part of the light had sunk to the bottom of this awful place . 
No bright winged sunbeam could fall so low they died far , far above our heads . 
And here , on this beach , we determined to land , in order to rest ourselves a little after all that we had gone through and to stretch our limbs . 
It was a dreadful place , but it would give an hour's respite from the terrors of the river , and also allow of our repacking and arranging the canoe . 
Accordingly we selected what looked like a favourable spot , and with some little difficulty managed to beach the canoe and scramble out on to the round , inhospitable pebbles . 
'My word , called out Good , who was on shore the first , 'what an awful place ! It's enough to give one a fit . 
Instantly a thundering voice took up his words , magnifying them a hundred times . 
'Oh , mon Dieu ! yelled Alphonse , startled quite out of such self command as he possessed . 
'MON DIEU ! MON DIEU ! MON DIEU ! the Titanic echoes thundered , shrieked , and wailed in every conceivable tone . 
'Ah , said Umslopogaas calmly , 'I clearly perceive that devils live here . 
Well , the place looks like it . 
I tried to explain to him that the cause of all the hubbub was a very remarkable and interesting echo , but he would not believe it . 
'Ah , he said , 'I know an echo when I hear one . 
There was one lived opposite my kraal in Zululand , and the Intombis maidens used to talk with it . 
But if what we hear is a full grown echo , mine at home can only have been a baby . 
No , no they are devils up there . 
But I don't think much of them , though , he added , taking a pinch of snuff . 
But even our whispers ran up the rocks in mysterious murmurs till at last they died away in long drawn sighs of sound . 
Echoes are delightful and romantic things , but we had more than enough of them in that dreadful gulf . 
As soon as we had settled ourselves a little on the round stones , we went on to wash and dress our burns as well as we could . 
It was a curious meal . 
The gloom was so intense that we could scarcely see the way to cut our food and convey it to our mouths . 
This hideous and loathsome looking animal had projecting eyes that seemed to glare at one , very long and flexible antennae or feelers , and gigantic claws . 
Nor was I especially favoured with its company . 
Some were already quite close to us . 
Seizing whatever weapons were handy , such as stones or paddles , we commenced a war upon the monsters whose numbers were increasing by leaps and bounds , and whose stench was overpowering . 
So fast as we cracked their armour others seized the injured ones and devoured them , foaming at the mouth , and screaming as they did so . 
Nor did the brutes stop at that . 
When they could they nipped hold of us and awful nips they were or tried to steal the meat . 
One enormous fellow got hold of the swan we had skinned and began to drag it off . 
Instantly a score of others flung themselves upon the prey , and then began a ghastly and disgusting scene . 
They were so dreadfully courageous and intelligent , and they looked as if they UNDERSTOOD . 
The whole scene might have furnished material for another canto of Dante's 'Inferno' , as Curtis said . 
'I say , you fellows , let's get out of this or we shall all go off our heads , sung out Good and we were not slow to take the hint . 
'Those are the devils of the place , said Umslopogaas with the air of one who has solved a problem , and upon my word I felt almost inclined to agree with him . 
Umslopogaas' remarks were like his axe very much to the point . 
'What's to be done next ? said Sir Henry blankly . 
'Drift , I suppose , I answered , and we drifted accordingly . 
Suddenly it vanished , the darkness became intense , and a familiar murmuring sound filled the air . 
'Underground again , I said with a groan , holding up the lamp . 
Yes , there was no doubt about it . 
I could just make out the roof . 
The chasm had come to an end and the tunnel had recommenced . 
And then there began another long , long night of danger and horror . 
However , at last we got off , and went upon the uneven tenor of our way . 
And so the hours passed till it was nearly three o'clock . 
Another minute , and the breath of sweet open air fanned my face , and I felt that we had emerged from the tunnel and were floating upon clear water . 
I say felt , for I could see nothing , the darkness being absolutely pitchy , as it often is just before the dawn . 
But even this could scarcely damp my joy . 
We were out of that dreadful river , and wherever we might have got to this at least was something to be thankful for . 
And so I sat down and inhaled the sweet night air and waited for the dawn with such patience as I could command . 
till at length the east turned grey , and huge misty shapes moved over the surface of the water like ghosts of long forgotten dawns . 
They were the vapours rising from their watery bed to greet the sun . 
Then the grey turned to primrose , and the primrose grew to red . 
Presently , too , I , or rather Umslopogaas , who woke up just then , discovered another indication , and a very unpleasant one it was . 
His appearance also was dreadful , for he bore traces of having touched the pillar of fire one arm being completely shrivelled up and all his hair being burnt off . 
At length these , too , were gone , and that was an end of our poor servant . 
Umslopogaas thoughtfully watched the body vanish . 
'What did he follow us for ? he asked . 
''Tis an ill omen for thee and me , Macumazahn . 
I turned on him angrily , for I dislike these unpleasant suggestions . 
If people have such ideas , they ought in common decency to keep them to themselves . 
Just then , however , the others woke up and began to rejoice exceedingly at finding that we were out of that dreadful river and once more beneath the blue sky . 
, having abandoned all that remained of our provisions to those horrible freshwater crabs , we determined to make for the shore . 
But a new difficulty arose . 
This done , we devoured the remnants of our biltong , washed down with the sweet lake water , and then lit our pipes and awaited whatever might turn up . 
This bit of news , which we were very shortly able to verify with our own eyes , threw us into a considerable flutter . 
That the natives of this unknown lake should understand the art of sailing seemed to suggest that they possessed some degree of civilization . 
In a few more minutes it became evident that the occupant or occupants of the advancing boat had made us out . 
For a moment or two she hung in the wind as though in doubt , and then came tacking towards us with great swiftness . 
But our attention was soon diverted from the boat to her crew , which consisted of a man and a woman , NEARLY AS WHITE AS OURSELVES . 
We stared at each other in amazement , thinking that we must be mistaken but no , there was no doubt about it . 
It was a patent fact . 
So it was true , after all and , mysteriously led by a Power beyond our own , we had discovered this wonderful people . 
The man in the boat was of a good but not particularly fine physique , and possessed straight black hair , regular aquiline features , and an intelligent face . 
He was dressed in a brown cloth garment , something like a flannel shirt without the sleeves , and in an unmistakable kilt of the same material . 
The legs and feet were bare . 
Round the right arm and left leg he wore thick rings of yellow metal that I judged to be gold . 
The woman had a sweet face , wild and shy , with large eyes and curling brown hair . 
A more becoming dress , especially when , as in the present case , the wearer was young and pretty , it is quite impossible to conceive . 
was greatly struck with it , and so indeed was I. It was so simple and yet so effective . 
Meanwhile , if we had been astonished at the appearance of the man and woman , it was clear that they were far more astonished at us . 
As for the man , he appeared to be overcome with fear and wonder , and for a while hovered round our canoe , but would not approach . 
As she passed across our bows the man turned to attend to the large sail , and Good promptly took the opportunity to kiss his hand to the young lady . 
'Ah ! said I. 'It seems that we have at last found a language that the people of this country understand . 
'In which case , said Sir Henry , 'Good will prove an invaluable interpreter . 
I frowned , for I do not approve of Good's frivolities , and he knows it , and I turned the conversation to more serious subjects . 
'The question is how will they receive us ? said Sir Henry . 
As for Good he made no remark , but began to extract a small square tin case that had accompanied us in all our wanderings from under a pile of baggage . 
'What on earth are you going to do , Good ? asked Sir Henry . 
We said no more , but watched his proceedings with breathless interest . 
His first step was to get Alphonse , who was thoroughly competent in such matters , to trim his hair and beard in the most approved fashion . 
I think that if he had had some hot water and a cake of soap at hand he would have shaved off the latter but he had not . 
We watched this undoing with the tenderest interest and much speculation . 
One at least of us ought to be decently dressed . 
We said no more we were simply dumbfounded , especially when we considered the artful way in which Good had concealed the contents of that box for all these months . 
Only one suggestion did we make namely , that he should wear his mail shirt next his skin . 
He replied that he feared it would spoil the set of his coat , now carefully spread in the sun to take the creases out , but finally consented to this precautionary measure . 
The most amusing part of the affair , however , was to see old Umslopogaas's astonishment and Alphonse's delight at Good's transformation . 
'Oh , Bougwan ! he said . 
Surely , Bougwan , it hurts my eyes to look at thee . 
As for Alphonse , he was quite delighted . 
'Ah ! but Monsieur has the beautiful air the air of the warrior . 
It is the ladies who will say so when we come to get ashore . 
Monsieur is complete he puts me in mind of my heroic grand Here we stopped Alphonse . 
As we gazed upon the beauties thus revealed by Good , a spirit of emulation filled our breasts , and we set to work to get ourselves up as well as we could . 
Alphonse also got himself up to kill , giving an extra turn to his enormous moustaches . 
Then he put on the mail shirt Sir Henry had given him and his 'moocha' , and , having cleaned up Inkosi kaas a little , stood forth complete . 
One of these was propelled by twenty four oars , and most of the rest sailed . 
The other boats were apparently occupied by people brought out by curiosity , and were rowing or sailing towards us as quickly as they could . 
There were four of the animals , a big bull , a cow , and two young ones , one three parts grown . 
When the advancing boats were about five hundred yards away , Sir Henry opened the ball by firing at the three parts grown young one . 
The heavy bullet struck it fair between the eyes , and , crashing through the skull , killed it , and it sank , leaving a long train of blood behind it . 
At the same moment I fired at the cow , and Good at the old bull . 
Good , who is an execrable shot , missed the head of the bull altogether , the bullet merely cutting the side of his face as it passed . 
We all fired , and hit him in various places , and down he went . 
We all fired , and hit him in various places , and down he went , badly wounded . 
Just then the great brute rose again within ten yards of their base , and instantly with a roar of fury made at it open mouthed . 
The woman shrieked , and the man tried to give the boat way , but without success . 
In another second I saw the huge red jaws and gleaming ivories close with a crunch on the frail craft , taking an enormous mouthful out of its side and capsizing it . 
Down went the boat , leaving its occupants struggling in the water . 
Lifting my rifle just as the grinding jaws were about to close on her , I fired over her head right down the hippopotamus's throat . 
Over he went , and commenced turning round and round , snorting , and blowing red streams of blood through his nostrils . 
Before he could recover himself , however , I let him have the other barrel in the side of the throat , and that finished him . 
He never moved or struggled again , but instantly sank . 
considerably exhausted and frightened , but otherwise unhurt . 
Meanwhile the boats had gathered together at a distance , and we could see that the occupants , who were evidently much frightened , were consulting what to do . 
Most of the craft retreated as we advanced , but a few held their ground , while the big row boat came on to meet us . 
Presently we were alongside , and I could see that our appearance and especially Good's and Umslopogaas's filled the venerable looking commander with astonishment , not unmixed with awe . 
He was dressed after the same fashion as the man we first met , except that his shirt was not made of brown cloth , but of pure white linen hemmed with purple . 
The kilt , however , was identical , and so were the thick rings of gold around the arm and beneath the left knee . 
The rowers wore only a kilt , their bodies being naked to the waist . 
This last Alphonse , being to the manner born , did to perfection , and in so polite a way that nobody could take any offence . 
The row boat then took us in tow , and went with great rapidity towards the mouth of the river , accompanied by all the other boats . 
In about twenty minutes more we reached the entrance to the harbour , which was crowded with boats full of people who had come out to see us . 
We observed that all the occupants were more or less of the same type , though some were fairer than others . 
Indeed , we noticed certain ladies whose skin was of a most dazzling whiteness and the darkest shade of colour which we saw was about that of a rather swarthy Spaniard . 
This imposing place we afterwards discovered was the palace of the queen , or rather of the queens . 
At the back of the palace the town sloped gently upwards to a flashing building of white marble , crowned by the golden dome which we had already observed . 
The city was , with the exception of this one building , entirely built of red granite , and laid out in regular blocks with splendid roadways between . 
But right in front of us was the wonder and glory of Milosis the great staircase of the palace , the magnificence of which took our breath away . 
This staircase with its supports was , indeed , a work of which any living man might have been proud , both on account of its magnitude and its surpassing beauty . 
If he failed he was to be hurled from the precipice he had undertaken to scale if he succeeded , he was to be rewarded by the hand of the king's daughter . 
Five years was given to him to complete the work , and an unlimited supply of labour and material . 
Three times did his arch fall , till at last , seeing failure to be inevitable , he determined to commit suicide on the morrow of the third collapse . 
Such was the great stair of Milosis , and such the city beyond . 
No wonder they named it the 'Frowning City' , for certainly those mighty works in solid granite did seem to frown down upon our littleness in their sombre splendour . 
The last to leave the canoe was the girl we had picked out of the water , for whom her companion was waiting . 
At any rate , she was going to kiss Good's hand as well as mine , when the young man interfered and led her off . 
This done , he turned to the right and led the way to a small house , which was , as I afterwards discovered , an inn . 
Entering into a good sized room , we saw that a wooden table was already furnished with food , presumably in preparation for us . 
Here our guide motioned us to be seated on a bench that ran the length of the table . 
This wine was peculiarly soft and good , having something of the flavour of Burgundy . 
Twenty minutes after we sat down at that hospitable board we rose from it , feeling like new men . 
After all that we had gone through we needed two things , food and rest , and the food of itself was a great blessing to us . 
Two girls of the same charming cast of face as the first whom we had seen waited on us while we ate , and very nicely they did it . 
I afterwards found out that this was the national dress , and regulated by an iron custom , though of course subject to variations . 
This also applies to the 'shirts' or tunics worn by the men , which varied in material and colour but the kilts were always the same except as regards quality . 
People of high rank also wore a torque of gold round the neck , and I observed that our guide had one on . 
But Alphonse did not care about it . 
Then we passed on up the stair till at last we reached the top , where we found a large standing space to which there were three entrances , all of small size . 
The third entrance consisted of a flight of ten curved black marble steps leading to a doorway cut in the palace wall . 
To this doorway our guide led us . 
The sword instantly attracted our attention it was practically identical with the one in the possession of Mr Mackenzie which he had obtained from the ill starred wanderer . 
There was no mistaking the gold lined fretwork cut in the thickness of the blade . 
So the man had told the truth after all . 
This was about forty yards square , and laid out in flower beds full of lovely shrubs and plants , many of which were quite new to me . 
Through the centre of this garden ran a broad walk formed of powdered shells brought from the lake in the place of gravel . 
Following this we came to another doorway with a round heavy arch , which is hung with thick curtains , for there are no doors in the palace itself . 
Then came another short passage , and we were in the great hall of the palace , and once more stood astonished at the simple and yet overpowering grandeur of the place . 
The hall is , as we afterwards learnt , one hundred and fifty feet long by eighty wide , and has a magnificent arched roof of carved wood . 
One arm is carelessly thrown over the side of this couch , and his head reposes upon the other , its curling locks partially hiding it . 
Bending over him , her hand resting on his forehead , is a draped female form of such white loveliness as to make the beholder's breath stand still . 
And as for the calm glory that shines upon her perfect face well , I can never hope to describe it . 
But there it rests like the shadow of an angel's smile and power , love , and divinity all have their part in it . 
You can see that an inspiration is breaking in upon the darkness of the man's soul as the dawn breaks in upon the darkness of night . 
It is a glorious piece of statuary , and none but a genius could have conceived it . 
In the exact centre of the hall was a solid mass of black marble about the size of a baby's arm chair , which it rather resembled in appearance . 
As the stone , however , looked remarkably solid , the native princes seemed to have a fair chance of keeping their own for many a long year . 
At the end of the hall is a dais spread with rich carpets , on which two thrones are set side by side . 
These thrones are shaped like great chairs , and made of solid gold . 
The seats are richly cushioned , but the backs are left bare , and on each is carved the emblem of the sun , shooting out his fiery rays in all directions . 
The footstools are golden lions couchant , with yellow topazes set in them for eyes . 
There are no other gems about them . 
Such is a brief description of this splendid hall in which we now found ourselves , compiled of course from our subsequent knowledge of it . 
To judge from the dignity of their appearance , they seemed one and all to be individuals of very great importance . 
Behind each of these great men stood a small knot of followers and attendants . 
Seated by themselves , in a little group to the left of the throne , were six men of a different stamp . 
They were all men of mature age and of a severe and impressive cast of features , which was rendered still more imposing by the long beards they wore . 
The personality of one individual among them , however , impressed us at once . 
He seemed to stand out among his fellows and refuse to be overlooked . 
He was very old eighty at least and extremely tall , with a long snow white beard that hung nearly to his waist . 
His features were aquiline and deeply cut , and his eyes were grey and cold looking . 
Then soft footed attendants advanced from between the pillars , bearing seats , which were placed in a line in front of the thrones . 
We three sat down , Alphonse and Umslopogaas standing behind us . 
Scarcely had we done so when there came a blare of trumpets from some passage to the right , and a similar blare from the left . 
Both were young perhaps five and twenty years of age both were tall and exquisitely formed but there the likeness stopped . 
And as for her sweet face , all I can say is , that it was one that few men could look on and forget . 
Her twin sister , Sorais , was of a different and darker type of beauty . 
Her figure , like her sister's , was almost perfect in its curves and outlines , but a trifle more rounded , and her dress was absolutely the same . 
Royal they were in every way in form , in grace , and queenly dignity , and in the barbaric splendour of their attendant pomp . 
But methought that they needed no guards or gold to proclaim their power and bind the loyalty of wayward men . 
But after all they were women first and queens afterwards , and therefore not devoid of curiosity . 
As they passed to their seats I saw both of them glance swiftly in our direction . 
I saw , too , that their eyes passed by me , seeing nothing to charm them in the person of an insignificant and grizzled old man . 
Then they looked with evident astonishment on the grim form of old Umslopogaas , who raised his axe in salutation . 
And why it was I know not , but I saw the swift blood run up Nyleptha's skin as the pink lights run up the morning sky . 
I glanced at Sir Henry . 
He , too , had coloured up to the eyes . 
'Oh , my word ! thought I to myself , 'the ladies have come on the stage , and now we may look to the plot to develop itself . 
And I sighed and shook my head , knowing that the beauty of a woman is like the beauty of the lightning a destructive thing and a cause of desolation . 
By the time that I had finished my reflections both the Queens were on the thrones , for all this had happened in about six seconds . 
Once more the unseen trumpets blared out , and then the Court seated itself , and Queen Sorais motioned to us to do likewise . 
Having made obeisance he proceeded to address the Queens , evidently describing to them the way and place where we had been found . 
It was most amusing to watch the astonishment , not unmixed with fear , reflected upon their faces as they listened to his tale . 
Clearly they could not understand how we had reached the lake and been found floating on it , and were inclined to attribute our presence to supernatural causes . 
Mr Quatermain does not seem to have been aware that it is common for animal worshipping people to annually sacrifice the beasts they adore . 
When we shot them I thought that the brutes were suspiciously tame , and this was , as we afterwards ascertained , the cause of it . 
Thus it came about that in attempting to show off we had committed sacrilege of a most aggravated nature . 
I did not like the look of his cold grey eye as he fixed it on us . 
Then Nyleptha spoke in liquid accents . 
Little did we know that she was pleading for our lives . 
Afterwards we learnt that he was an aspirant for the hand of this Queen in marriage , which accounted for it . 
Then suddenly Nyleptha made a sign , the trumpets blew again , and everybody rose to leave the hall save ourselves and the guards , whom she motioned to stay . 
The difficulty was how to explain , but at last an idea struck me . 
I had my large pocket book in my pocket and a pencil . 
Taking it out , I made a little sketch of a lake , and then as best I could I drew the underground river and the lake at the other end . 
When I had done this I advanced to the steps of the throne and gave it to her . 
She understood it at once and clapped her hands with delight , and then descending from the throne took it to her sister Sorais , who also evidently understood . 
Then followed a most alarming picture of a dreadful fiery furnace and of the same figure , Agon , poking us into it with a forked stick . 
To all of these Sorais , who I saw was employed in carefully taking us all in especially Curtis signified her approval by nodding . 
I am glad to say that I was not implicated in these proceedings neither of them gave ME her hand to kiss . 
and richly carpeted and strewn with couches . 
On a table in the centre of the room was set a profusion of food and fruit , and , what is more , flowers . 
There was a delicious wine also in ancient looking sealed earthenware flagons , and beautifully chased golden and ivory cups to drink it from . 
In two minutes I was just dropping off when I was aroused by Good's voice . 
'Oh , I don't know , I yawned 'I didn't notice them much I suppose they are good eyes , and again I dropped off . 
Five minutes or so elapsed , and I was once more awakened . 
'I say , Quatermain , said the voice . 
'Well , I answered testily , 'what is it now ? 'Did you notice her ankle ? The shape This was more than I could stand . 
By my bed stood the veldtschoons I had been wearing . 
Moved quite beyond myself , I took them up and threw them straight at Good's head and hit it . 
Afterwards I slept the sleep of the just , and a very heavy sleep it must be . 
As for Good , I don't know if he went to sleep or if he continued to pass Sorais' beauties in mental review , and , what is more , I don't care . 
CHAPTER XIII ABOUT THE ZU VENDI PEOPLE And now the curtain is down for a few hours , and the actors in this novel drama are plunged in dewy sleep . 
The name of this country , to begin at the beginning , is Zu Vendis , from Zu , 'yellow' , and Vendis , 'place or country' . 
Why it is called the Yellow Country I have never been able to ascertain accurately , nor do the inhabitants themselves know . 
Three reasons are , however , given , each of which would suffice to account for it . 
The first is that the name owes its origin to the great quantity of gold that is found in the land . 
Indeed , in this respect Zu Vendis is a veritable Eldorado , the precious metal being extraordinarily plentiful . 
But other diggings of a similar nature are known to exist , and I have besides seen great veins of gold bearing quartz . 
In Zu Vendis gold is a much commoner metal than silver , and thus it has curiously enough come to pass that silver is the legal tender of the country . 
As a consequence the climate is , comparatively speaking , a cold one , being very similar to that of southern England , only brighter and not so rainy . 
Coal is found in great abundance , and in many places crops out from the surface and so is pure marble , both black and white . 
The same may be said of almost every metal except silver , which is scarce , and only to be obtained from a range of mountains in the north . 
This range forms the chief watershed of the land . 
The population of this favoured land is , comparatively speaking , dense , numbering at a rough estimate from ten to twelve millions . 
It is almost purely agricultural in its habits , and divided into great classes as in civilized countries . 
There is a territorial nobility , a considerable middle class , formed principally of merchants , officers of the army , etc . 
but the great bulk of the people are well to do peasants who live upon the lands of the lords , from whom they hold under a species of feudal tenure . 
As to their descent I can give no certain information . 
Their written records , which extend back for about a thousand years , give no hint of it . 
In short , the origin of the Zu Vendi is lost in the mists of time . 
Whence they came or of what race they are no man knows . 
Again , their appearance and some of their habits are rather Jewish but here again it seems hardly conceivable that they should have utterly lost all traces of the Jewish religion . 
Still , for aught I know , they may be one of the lost ten tribes whom people are so fond of discovering all over the world , or they may not . 
There are Persian tombs at Kilwa , on the east coast , still in good repair , which bear dates showing them to be just seven hundred years old . 
The cradle of the Phoenician race is supposed to have been have been on the western shore of the Persian Gulf . 
This habit of theirs is largely fostered by the political condition of the country . 
I will now pass on to the question of the Zu Vendi religion , which is nothing more or less than sun worship of a pronounced and highly developed character . 
Around this sun worship is grouped the entire social system of the Zu Vendi . 
It sends its roots through every institution and custom of the land . 
From the cradle to the grave the Zu Vendi follows the sun in every sense of the saying . 
And so on , down life's long pathway till the last mile is travelled , and he comes again armed indeed , and with dignity , but no longer a man . 
The priests of the Sun do not marry , but are recruited by young men specially devoted to the work by their parents and supported by the State . 
In Zu Vendis only a few of the upper classes can read and write , but nearly all the priests have this knowledge , and are therefore looked upon as learned men . 
The law of the country is , on the whole , mild and just , but differs in several respects from our civilized law . 
For instance , the law of England is much more severe upon offences against property than against the person , as becomes a people whose ruling passion is money . 
For murder the punishment is death , for treason death , for defrauding the orphan and the widow , for sacrilege , and for attempting to quit the country death . 
In each case the method of execution is the same , and a rather awful one . 
The culprit is thrown alive into the fiery furnace beneath one of the altars to the Sun . 
The social system of the Zu Vendi allows considerable liberty to the individual , provided he does not offend against the laws and customs of the country . 
They are polygamous in theory , though most of them have only one wife on account of the expense . 
By law a man is bound to provide a separate establishment for each wife . 
The first wife also is the legal wife , and her children are said to be 'of the house of the Father' . 
The children of the other wives are of the houses of their respective mothers . 
This does not , however , imply any slur upon either mother or children . 
Again , a first wife can , on entering into the married state , make a bargain that her husband shall marry no other wife . 
The Zu Vendi are on the whole a very kindly , pleasant , and light hearted people . 
They are not great traders and care little about money , only working to earn enough to support themselves in that class of life in which they were born . 
They are exceedingly conservative , and look with disfavour upon changes . 
Their legal tender is silver , cut into little squares of different weights gold is the baser coin , and is about of the same value as our silver . 
It is , however , much prized for its beauty , and largely used for ornaments and decorative purposes . 
Most of the trade , however , is carried on by means of sale and barter , payment being made in kind . 
Agriculture is the great business of the country , and is really well understood and carried out , most of the available acreage being under cultivation . 
Great attention is also given to the breeding of cattle and horses , the latter being unsurpassed by any I have ever seen either in Europe or Africa . 
on a system of half profits with his immediate lord . 
The taxes are very heavy . 
The State takes a third of a man's total earnings , and the priesthood about five per cent on the remainder . 
But on the other hand , if a man through any cause falls into bona fide misfortune the State supports him in the position of life to which he belongs . 
If he is idle , however , he is sent to work on the Government undertakings , and the State looks after his wives and children . 
The State also makes all the roads and builds all town houses , about which great care is shown , letting them out to families at a small rent . 
It also keeps up a standing army of about twenty thousand men , and provides watchmen , etc . 
Some of the temples also possess private property , but priests as individuals cannot hold property . 
And now comes a question which I find some difficulty in answering . 
Are the Zu Vendi a civilized or barbarous people ? Sometimes I think the one , sometimes the other . 
In some branches of art they have attained the very highest proficiency . 
Take for instance their buildings and their statuary . 
But , on the other hand , they are totally ignorant of many other arts . 
A water clock is their nearest approach to a watch indeed , ours delighted them exceedingly . 
They know nothing about steam , electricity , or gunpowder , and mercifully for themselves nothing about printing or the penny post . 
Thus they are spared many evils , for of a truth our age has learnt the wisdom of the old world saying , 'He who increaseth knowledge , increaseth sorrow . 
They also call him the 'hope of eternity' , but here again the meaning is vague , and I doubt if the phrase conveys any very clear impression to their minds . 
There are now only two more matters to which I need allude namely , the language and the system of calligraphy . 
As for the former , it is soft sounding , and very rich and flexible . 
Sir Henry says that it sounds something like modern Greek , but of course it has no connection with it . 
Long before we mastered the language , we could frequently make out what was meant by the ring of the sentence . 
It is on this account that the language lends itself so well to poetical declamation , of which these remarkable people are very fond . 
Whether this is a fact I cannot say , not being learned in such matters . 
The whole affair is , however , clumsy and puzzling . 
Ah , what a blessed thing is sleep ! and what a difference twelve hours of it or so makes to us after days and nights of toil and danger . 
It is like going to bed one man and getting up another . 
'I say , Quatermain , he commenced sure enough , 'did you observe her skin ? It is as smooth as the back of an ivory hairbrush . 
We gladly consented , and were conducted to a delightful marble chamber , with a pool of running crystal water in the centre of it , into which we gaily plunged . 
After breakfast we lounged round and admired the tapestries and carpets and some pieces of statuary that were placed about , wondering the while what was going to happen next . 
Indeed , by this time our minds were in such a state of complete bewilderment that we were , as a matter of fact , ready for anything that might arrive . 
As for our sense of astonishment , it was pretty well obliterated . 
These gates are very large and massive , and an extraordinarily beautiful work in metal . 
Between them for one set is placed at the entrance to an interior , and one at that of the exterior wall is a fosse , forty five feet in width . 
This fosse is filled with water and spanned by a drawbridge , which when lifted makes the palace nearly impregnable to anything except siege guns . 
As we stood gazing at this splendid sight , of which more anon , there suddenly dashed up to the gateway four chariots , each drawn by two white horses . 
These chariots are two wheeled , and made of wood . 
They are fitted with a stout pole , the weight of which is supported by leathern girths that form a portion of the harness . 
The wheels are made with four spokes only , are tired with iron , and quite innocent of springs . 
In the front of the chariot , and immediately over the pole , is a small seat for the driver , railed round to prevent him from being jolted off . 
Inside the machine itself are three low seats , one at each side , and one with the back to the horses , opposite to which is the door . 
The whole vehicle is lightly and yet strongly made , and , owing to the grace of the curves , though primitive , not half so ugly as might be expected . 
But if the chariots left something to be desired , the horses did not . 
I have often and often wondered whence this breed , which presents many distinct characteristics , came , but like that of its owners , it history is obscure . 
Like the people the horses have always been there . 
The first and last of these chariots were occupied by guards , but the centre two were empty , except for the driver , and to these we were conducted . 
Alphonse and I got into the first , and Sir Henry , Good , and Umslopogaas into the one behind , and then suddenly off we went . 
As for the wretched Alphonse , he clung with a despairing face to the side of what he called this 'devil of a fiacre' , thinking that every moment was his last . 
Presently it occurred to him to ask where we were going , and I told him that , as far as I could ascertain , we were going to be sacrificed by burning . 
You should have seen his face as he grasped the side of the vehicle and cried out in his terror . 
But the wild looking charioteer only leant forward over his flying steeds and shouted and the air , as it went singing past , bore away the sound of Alphonse's lamentations . 
The wealth , and skill , and labour of generations had been given to the building of this wonderful place , which had been only finally completed within the last fifty years . 
, or a total of six hundred feet from the rounded extremity of one ray or petal to the extremity of the opposite one . 
It is a marvellous sight this golden flower upborne upon the cool white marble walls , and I doubt if the world can show such another . 
Advancing to the central altar you look upon as beautiful a sight as the imagination of man can conceive . 
At the east and the west are other altars , and other beams of light stab the sacred twilight to the heart . 
Light was also admitted by sliding shutters under the eaves of the dome and in the roof . 
It is of marble overlaid with pure gold , in shape round like the sun , four feet in height , and thirty six in circumference . 
Here also , hinged to the foundations of the altar , are twelve petals of beaten gold . 
Standing in semicircles at equal distances from each other on the north and south of the sacred place are ten golden angels , or female winged forms , exquisitely shaped and draped . 
The eastern and western altars , which are semicircular in shape , and placed against the wall of the building , are much less imposing , and are not enfolded in golden petals . 
They are , however , also of gold , the sacred fire burns on each , and a golden winged figure stands on either side of them . 
In the same way at night the last rays of the sinking sun rest for a while on the eastern altar before they die away into darkness . 
It is the promise of the dawn to the evening and the evening to the dawn . 
But I cannot , so it is useless talking more about it . 
It is vulgarly put , but perhaps it conveys my meaning more clearly than any polished utterance . 
Today the sacrifice was to take place at about eight minutes past twelve . 
For some thirty feet around the golden winged figures the space was roped off , and the multitudes stood outside the ropes . 
His was the only covered head in that vast assemblage . 
Then came a pause , and I looked around to see if there was any sign of the two Queens , Nyleptha and Sorais , but they were not there . 
To the right of us , however , was a bare space that I guessed was reserved for them . 
We waited , and presently a far off trumpet blew , apparently high up in the dome . 
Then came another murmur from the multitude , and up a long lane , leading to the open space to our right , we saw the two Queens walking side by side . 
Behind them were some nobles of the Court , among whom I recognized the great lord Nasta , and behind them again a body of about fifty guards . 
These last I was very glad to see . 
Then came another silence , and Nyleptha looked up and caught my eye it seemed to me that there was meaning in her glance , and I watched it narrowly . 
From my eye it travelled down to the brazen flooring , on the outer edge of which we stood . 
Then followed a slight and almost imperceptible sidelong movement of the head . 
I did not understand it , and it was repeated . 
Then I guessed that she meant us to move back off the brazen floor . 
One more glance and I was sure of it there was danger in standing on the floor . 
Sir Henry was placed on one side of me , Umslopogaas on the other . 
Then I glanced again at Nyleptha , and saw that , by an almost imperceptible nod , she indicated approval . 
She lies enshrouded in mists like a corpse in the grave clothes , And stretches her pale hands to the East . 
Lo ! away in the farthest East there is the shadow of a light The Earth seeth and lifts herself . 
She looks out from beneath the hollow of her hand . 
Then thy great angels fly forth from the Holy Place , oh Sun , They shoot their fiery swords into the darkness and shrivel it up . 
The wide heavens are thy pathway thou rollest o'er them as a chariot . 
The Earth is thy bride . 
Thou dost embrace her and she brings forth children Yea , Thou favourest her , and she yields her increase . 
Thou art the All Father and the giver of life , oh Sun . 
The young children stretch out their hands and grow in thy brightness The old men creep forth and seeing remember their strength . 
Only the dead forget Thee , oh Sun ! When Thou art wroth then Thou dost hide Thy face Thou drawest around Thee a thick curtain of shadows . 
'Taia' , the word used here , has a very indeterminate meaning , and signifies essence , vital principle , spirit , or even God . 
None did place Thee on high , for Thou was the Beginning . 
Thou shalt not be ended when thy children are forgotten Nay , Thou shalt never end , for thy hours are eternal . 
Thou sittest on high within thy golden house and measurest out the centuries . 
Down from on high flashed a splendid living ray of light , cleaving the twilight like a sword of fire . 
Full upon the closed petals it fell and ran shimmering down their golden sides , and then the glorious flower opened as though beneath the bright influence . 
As it vanished , the mellow notes of the trumpets rolled out once more . 
Again the old priest flung up his hands and called aloud WE SACRIFICE TO THEE , OH SUN ! Once more I caught Nyleptha's eye it was fixed upon the brazen flooring . 
'Look out , I said , aloud and as I said it , I saw Agon bend forward and touch something on the altar . 
As he did so , the great white sea of faces around us turned red and then white again , and a deep breath went up like a universal sigh . 
Nyleptha leant forward , and with an involuntary movement covered her eyes with her hand . 
Instantly there arose the most fearful hubbub , and we four got back to back , Alphonse dodging frantically round our little circle in his attempts to take shelter under our legs . 
We all had our revolvers on for though we had been politely disarmed of our guns on leaving the palace , of course these people did not know what a revolver was . 
Next second , the priests , baffled of their prey , had drawn swords from beneath their white robes and were leaping on us like hounds upon a stag at bay . 
The last yell of the burning priest had died away , the fire had finished him , and a great silence fell upon the place . 
Then the High Priest Agon turned , and his face was as the face of a devil . 
'Let the sacrifice be sacrificed , he cried to the Queens . 
Beware how ye lift an impious hand against it ! Let the sacrifice be sacrificed , oh Queens . 
But it is thou who wouldst lift an impious hand against the justice of thy God . 
Bethink thee the midday sacrifice is accomplished the Sun hath claimed his priest as a sacrifice . 
This was a novel idea , and the people applauded it . 
'Bethink thee what are these men ? They are strangers found floating on the bosom of a lake . 
To bind up his wounds , and find a pillow for his head , and food for him to eat . 
But thy pillow is the fiery furnace , and thy food the hot savour of the flame . 
'Ho ! place there , she cried 'place , I say make way for the Queens , and those whom the Queens cover with their kaf . 
'And if I refuse , oh Queen ? said Agon between his teeth . 
'Then will I cut a path with my guards , was the proud answer 'ay , even in the presence of thy sanctuary , and through the bodies of thy priests . 
Agon turned livid with baffled fury . 
He glanced at the people as though meditating an appeal to them , but saw clearly that their sympathies were all the other way . 
Agon saw this and hesitated , and then for the first time Nyleptha spoke in her soft sweet voice . 
'Bethink thee , Agon , she said , 'as my sister Queen has said , these men may also be servants of the Sun . 
For themselves they cannot speak , for their tongues are tied . 
Let the matter be adjourned till such time as they have learnt our language . 
Who can be condemned without a hearing ? When these men can plead for themselves , then it will be time to put them to the proof . 
Here was a clever loophole of escape , and the vindictive old priest took it , little as he liked it . 
'So be it , oh Queens , he said . 
'Let the men go in peace , and when they have learnt our tongue then let them speak . 
And I , even I , will make humble supplication at the altar lest pestilence fall on the land by cause of the sacrilege . 
These words were received with a murmur of applause , and in another minute we were marching out of the temple surrounded by the royal guards . 
Had it not been for their strenuous efforts to protect us we should have been slain even before we set foot in the Temple of the Sun . 
The attempt to drop us bodily into the fiery pit as an offering was a last artifice to attain this end when several others quite unsuspected by us had already failed . 
CHAPTER XV SORAIS' SONG After our escape from Agon and his pious crew we returned to our quarters in the palace and had a very good time . 
The two Queens , the nobles and the people vied with each other in doing us honour and showering gifts upon us . 
As for that painful little incident of the hippopotami it sank into oblivion , where we were quite content to leave it . 
Every day deputations and individuals waited on us to examine our guns and clothing , our chain shirts , and our instruments , especially our watches , with which they were much delighted . 
One day , indeed , a deputation waited on us and , as usual , Good donned his full dress uniform for the occasion . 
This deputation seemed somehow to be a different class to those who generally came to visit us . 
Good was much flattered at the time , not suspecting that he had to deal with the six leading tailors of Milosis . 
I shall never forget his face of astonishment and disgust . 
Meanwhile we pursued our study of the language steadily and made very good progress . 
So , with the exception of Umslopogaas , we all buckled to with a will , doing four hours a day . 
As for Umslopogaas , he would have none of that either . 
Thus we spent our mornings in useful occupation which grew more and more interesting as we proceeded , and the afternoons were given up to recreation . 
This is not to be wondered at , seeing that the royal stables were at our command , in addition to which we had four splendid saddle horses given to us by Nyleptha . 
When attacked by the hawk this bird appears to lose its head , and , instead of seeking cover , flies high into the sky , thus offering wonderful sport . 
I have seen one of these partridges soar up almost out of sight when followed by the hawk . 
The zigzagging of the great snipe and the lightning rapidity of the flight and movements of the red tailed hawk make the pastime a delightful one . 
Still finer is the spectacle when the eagle takes the buck running . 
On other days we would pay visits to the country seats at some of the great lords' beautiful fortified places , and the villages clustering beneath their walls . 
Here we saw vineyards and corn fields and well kept park like grounds , with such timber in them as filled me with delight , for I do love a good tree . 
There it stands so strong and sturdy , and yet so beautiful , a very type of the best sort of man . 
And I am bound to say that those little suppers were quite the most charming things of their sort that I ever had to do with . 
How true is the saying that the very highest in rank are always the most simple and kindly . 
I really think that Nyleptha's greatest charm is her sweet simplicity , and her kindly genuine interest even in little things . 
For instance , never shall I forget that scene when I for the first time was sure that she was really in love with Curtis . 
It came about in this way all through Good's weakness for ladies' society . 
All of this the old gentlemen swallowed open mouthed . 
Consequently it was probable that we might absorb the Zu Vendi tongue a little faster if suitable teachers could be found . 
Another thing was that , as the female sex was naturally loquacious , good practice would be gained in the viva voce department of our studies . 
I was overwhelmed , and appealed to Sir Henry for advice in such a crisis . 
That day everything went very well the young ladies were certainly very clever , and they only smiled when we blundered . 
I never saw Good so attentive to his books before , and even Sir Henry appeared to tackle Zu Vendi with a renewed zest . 
Then we had a little singing that was really charming , so natural and unaffected . 
The Zu Vendi love songs are most touching . 
On the third day we were all quite intimate . 
Good narrated some of his previous love affairs to his fair teacher , and so moved was she that her sighs mingled with his own . 
, though in a very modified or rather spiritualized form . 
Imagine then my shame my horror , and my distress when the door opened , and , attended by two guards only , in walked NYLEPTHA . 
, but I instantly and ineffectually tried to look as though I had not thrown it . 
Good ceased his sighing , and began to murder Zu Vendi at the top of his voice , and Sir Henry whistled and looked silly . 
As for the poor girls , they were utterly dumbfounded . 
And Nyleptha ! she drew herself up till her frame seemed to tower even above that of the tall guards , and her face went first red , and then pale as death . 
'Guards , she said in a quiet choked voice , and pointing at the fair but unconscious disciple of Wackford Squeers , 'slay me that woman . 
The men hesitated , as well they might . 
'Will ye do my bidding , she said again in the same voice , 'or will ye not ? Then they advanced upon the girl with uplifted spears . 
By this time Sir Henry had recovered himself , and saw that the comedy was likely to turn into a tragedy . 
'Stand back , he said in a voice of thunder , at the same time getting in front of the terrified girl . 
'Shame on thee , Nyleptha shame ! Thou shalt not kill her . 
'Doubtless thou hast good reason to try to protect her . 
Thou couldst hardly do less in honour , answered the infuriated Queen 'but she shall die she shall die , and she stamped her little foot . 
'It is well , he answered 'then will I die with her . 
I am thy servant , oh Queen do with me even as thou wilt . 
And he bowed towards her , and fixed his clear eyes contemptuously on her face . 
Mine was an exceedingly nice girl , and , overlooking the cockroach , I made her a present of my favourite lucky sixpence with a hole in it when she went away . 
After that our former masters resumed their course of instruction , needless to say to my great relief . 
That night , when in fear and trembling we attended the royal supper table , we found that Nyleptha was laid up with a bad headache . 
She supposed , she added with a touch of the humour that was common to her , that it was the sight of people working so hard which had affected her . 
Indeed , after supper was over Nyleptha condescended to put us through an examination to see what we had learnt , and to express herself well satisfied with the results . 
Indeed , she proceeded to give us , especially Sir Henry , a lesson on her own account , and very interesting we found it . 
I watched her keenly , and soon I found out that for all her apparent impassibility she was at heart bitterly jealous of Nyleptha . 
Another thing I found out , and the discovery filled me with dismay , and that was , that she ALSO was growing devoted to Sir Henry Curtis . 
But blue as the sky seemed , there was a cloud , and a big one , on the horizon . 
On the contrary , it was burning the more fiercely because it was necessarily suppressed , and what had perhaps begun in bigotry was ending in downright direct hatred born of jealousy . 
Hitherto , the priests had been the wise men of the land , and were on this account , as well as from superstitious causes , looked on with peculiar veneration . 
A still worse affront to them , however , was the favour with which we were regarded , and the trust that was reposed in us . 
All these things tended to make us excessively obnoxious to the great sacerdotal clan , the most powerful because the most united faction in the kingdom . 
But now all this had changed the coy Nyleptha smiled no more in his direction , and he was not slow to guess the cause . 
Infuriated and alarmed , he turned his attention to Sorais , only to find that he might as well try to woo a mountain side . 
With a bitter jest or two about his fickleness , that door was closed on him for ever . 
Sir Henry bit his lip , and do what he could to prevent it plainly showed his agitation . 
'And what answer will the Queen be pleased to give to the great Lord ? asked I , in a jesting manner . 
, she said , with a pretty shrug of her ivory shoulder . 
Just then we rose from the table to adjourn into another room . 
'Quatermain , a word , quick , said Sir Henry to me . 
I have never spoken about it , but surely you have guessed I love Nyleptha . 
'You must speak to Nyleptha tonight , I said . 
'Now is your time , now or never . 
In the sitting chamber get near to her , and whisper to her to meet you at midnight by the Rademas statue at the end of the great hall . 
I will keep watch for you there . 
Now or never , Curtis . 
We passed on into the other room . 
Nyleptha was sitting , her hands before her , and a sad anxious look upon her lovely face . 
A little way off was Sorais talking to Good in her slow measured tones . 
The time went on in another quarter of an hour I knew that , according to their habit , the Queens would retire . 
I racked my brains , and at last an idea came to me . 
It was a marvellous song , but I had not time to listen to it properly . 
However , I got the words of it afterwards , and here is a translation of its burden , so far as it admits of being translated at all . 
REFRAIN Oh , the world is fair at the dawning dawning dawning , But the red sun sinks in blood the red sun sinks in blood . 
I only wish that I could write down the music too . 
'Now , Curtis , now , I whispered , when she began the second verse , and turned my back . 
Say me not nay oh , say me not nay ! 'How can I speak with thee ? she answered , looking fixedly before her 'Queens are not like other people . 
I am surrounded and watched . 
'Listen , Nyleptha , thus . 
I will be before the statue of Rademas in the great hall at midnight . 
I have the countersign and can pass in . 
Macumazahn will be there to keep guard , and with him the Zulu . 
Oh come , my Queen , deny me not . 
'It is not seemly , she murmured , 'and tomorrow Just then the music began to die in the last wail of the refrain , and Sorais slowly turned her round . 
'I will be there , said Nyleptha , hurriedly 'on thy life see that thou fail me not . 
CHAPTER XVI BEFORE THE STATUE It was night dead night and the silence lay on the Frowning City like a cloud . 
Secretly , as evildoers , Sir Henry Curtis , Umslopogaas , and myself threaded our way through the passages towards a by entrance to the great Throne Chamber . 
Once we were met by the fierce rattling challenge of the sentry . 
I gave the countersign , and the man grounded his spear and let us pass . 
Also we were officers of the Queens' bodyguard , and in that capacity had a right to come and go unquestioned . 
We gained the hall in safety . 
It was an eerie spot , and it oppressed me . 
Here by the statue we took our stand , and waited . 
Sir Henry and I close together , Umslopogaas some paces off in the darkness , so that I could only just make out his towering outline leaning on the outline of an axe . 
So long did we wait that I almost fell asleep resting against the cold marble , but was suddenly aroused by hearing Curtis give a quick catching breath . 
Then from far away there came a little sound as though the statues that lined the walls were whispering to each other some message of the ages . 
It was the faint sweep of a lady's dress . 
Nearer it grew , and nearer yet . 
We could see a figure steal from patch to patch of moonlight , and even hear the soft fall of sandalled feet . 
Another second and I saw the black silhouette of the old Zulu raise its arm in mute salute , and Nyleptha was before us . 
There she stood radiant but half doubting , stately and yet so sweet . 
Low we bowed before her , and then she spoke . 
'I have come , she whispered , 'but it was at great risk . 
Ye know not how I am watched . 
Sorais watches me with those great eyes of hers . 
My very guards are spies upon me . 
Oh , let him be careful ! and she stamped her foot . 
'Let him be careful I am a woman , and therefore hard to drive . 
Ay , and I am a Queen , too , and can still avenge . 
'Doubtless it is about business of the State , for I know that thou art ever full of great ideas and plans for my welfare and my people's . 
So even as a Queen should I have come , though I greatly fear the dark alone , and again she laughed and gave him a glance from her grey eyes . 
So it came to pass that , however unwillingly , I heard all that passed . 
'Thou knowest , Nyleptha , said Sir Henry , 'that it was for none of these things that I asked thee to meet me at this lonely place . 
Nyleptha , waste not the time in pleasantry , but listen to me , for I love thee . 
As he said the words I saw her face break up , as it were , and change . 
'Oh ! she cried , with a sudden and thrilling change of voice , and modifying her dignified mode of address . 
Oh , Nyleptha , I will never leave thee here and now for thy dear sake I will forget my people and my father's house , yea , I renounce them all . 
By thy side will I live , Nyleptha , and at thy side will I die . 
He paused and gazed at her earnestly , but she hung her head like a lily , and said never a word . 
'Look ! he went on , pointing to the statue on which the moonlight played so brightly . 
Thou hast awakened my soul and called it forth , and now , Nyleptha , it is not mine , not mine , but THINE and thine only . 
There is no more for me to say in thy hands is my life . 
And he leaned back against the pedestal of the statue , looking very pale , and his eyes shining , but proud and handsome as a god . 
Then at last she spoke , low indeed , but clearly as a silver bell . 
'Of a truth , weak woman that I am , I do believe thee . 
Ill will be the day for thee and for me also if it be my fate to learn that I have believed a lie . 
And now hearken to me , oh man , who hath wandered here from far to steal my heart and make me all thine own . 
I found the old warrior leaning on Inkosi kaas as usual , and surveying the scene in the patch of moonlight with a grim smile of amusement . 
A. Q. like a man and have done with it ? It would save a deal of trouble , and we should have had our night's sleep . 
But there they go , talk , talk , talk , and kiss , kiss , kiss , like mad things . 
Next she lifted Umslopogaas' axe , and examined it curiously , saying significantly as she did so that he might soon have cause to use it in defence of her . 
After that she nodded prettily to us all , and casting on tender glance at her lover , glided off into the darkness like a beautiful vision . 
When we got back to our quarters , which we did without accident , Curtis asked me jocularly what I was thinking about . 
The fact of the matter , however , was that not only was Good rejoiced about the thing on its own merits but also for personal reasons . 
He adored Sorais quite as earnestly as Sir Henry adored Nyleptha , and his adoration had not altogether prospered . 
Indeed , it had seemed to him and to me also that the dark Cleopatra like queen favoured Curtis in her own curious inscrutable way much more than Good . 
Therefore it was a relief to him to learn that his unconscious rival was permanently and satisfactorily attached in another direction . 
This reading and signing of the laws took a long time , but at length it came to an end , the last one reciting that 'whereas distinguished strangers , etc . 
, and proceeding to confer on the three of us the rank of 'lords' , together with certain military commands and large estates bestowed by the Queen . 
They did not like the favour that was shown to us , which under all the circumstances was not perhaps unnatural . 
Then there came a pause , and Nasta stepped forward and bowing humbly , though with no humility in his eye , craved a boon at the hands of the Queen Nyleptha . 
of the office of the High Priest , and so on . 
Many of his arguments were undoubtedly valid , and there was , looking at it from a political point of view , everything to be said for the marriage . 
But unfortunately it is difficult to play the game of politics with the persons of young and lovely queens as though they were ivory effigies of themselves on a chessboard . 
Nyleptha's face , while Agon spouted away , was a perfect study she smiled indeed , but beneath the smile it set like a stone , and her eyes began to flash ominously . 
At last he stopped , and she prepared herself to answer . 
Nyleptha made no answer , and with a shrug and a smile Sorais leant back again and listened . 
Methinks that in another minute he would have wed us fast ere the bride had said her say . 
Again I thank thee , Nasta , and she made as though she would rise . 
The great lord's face turned almost as black as his beard with fury , for he knew that the words amounted to a final refusal of his suit . 
'Thanks be to the Queen for her gracious words , he said , restraining himself with difficulty and looking anything but grateful , 'my heart shall surely treasure them . 
'It is but a poor country and a rough , but we are a hardy race of mountaineers , and there shall be gathered thirty thousand swordsmen to shout a welcome to her . 
This speech , which was almost a declaration of rebellion , was received in complete silence , but Nyleptha flushed up and answered it with spirit . 
The trumpets blared out , the Queens rose , and the great assembly broke up in murmuring confusion , and for myself I went home with a heavy heart foreseeing civil war . 
After this there was quiet for a few weeks . 
I saw the storm drawing nearer and nearer and so , poor fellow , did he . 
A third sting in Sir Henry's honey was that he knew that Good was honestly and sincerely attached to the ominous looking but most attractive Lady of the Night . 
Poor Good , he really was very ludicrous in his distress , and went in for all sorts of absurdities , under the belief that he was advancing his suit . 
Then whole thing formed a laughable incident in a tragic business . 
How deeply thankful we ought to be that even the most serious matters have generally a silver lining about them in the shape of a joke , if only people could see it . 
The sense of humour is a very valuable possession in life , and ought to be cultivated in the Board schools especially in Scotland . 
Well , the more Sir Henry held off the more Sorais came on , as is not uncommon in such cases , till at last things got very queer indeed . 
Evidently she was , by some strange perversity of mind , quite blinded to the true state of the case and I , for one , greatly dreaded the moment of her awakening . 
Sorais was a dangerous woman to be mixed up with , either with or without one's consent . 
At last the evil moment came , as I saw it must come . 
'Oh my word ! groaned Sir Henry . 
'Can't you go instead , old fellow ? 'Not if I know it , I said with vigour . 
'I had rather face a wounded elephant with a shot gun . 
Take care of your own business , my boy . 
If you will be so fascinating you must take the consequences . 
I would not be in your place for an empire . 
'You remind me of when I was going to be flogged at school and the other boys came to console me , he said gloomily . 
'What right has this Queen to command my attendance , I should like to know ? I won't go . 
'But you must you are one of her officers and bound to obey her , and she knows it . 
And after all it will soon be over . 
'That's just what they used to say , he said again . 
'I only hope she won't put a knife into me . 
I believe that she is quite capable of it . 
And off he started very faintheartedly , and no wonder . 
I sat and waited , and at the end of about forty five minutes he returned , looking a good deal worse than when he went . 
'Give me something to drink , he said hoarsely . 
I got him a cup of wine , and asked what was the matter . 
'What is the matter ? Why if ever there was trouble there's trouble now . 
I stood before her , and for a while she took no notice of me , but kept on playing and singing a little , and very sweet music it was . 
At last she looked up and smiled . 
So thou art come , she said . 
I thought perchance thou hadst gone about the Queen Nyleptha's business . 
Thou art ever on her business , and I doubt not a good servant and a true . 
'To this I merely bowed , and said I was there to receive the Queen's word . 
Ah yes , I would talk with thee , but be thou seated . 
It is not meet , I said , that I should make myself equal with the Queen . 
I said be seated , was her answer , so I sat down , and she began to look at me with those dark eyes of hers . 
There she sat like an incarnate spirit of beauty , hardly talking at all , and when she did , very low , but all the while looking at me . 
There was a white flower in her black hair , and I tried to keep my eyes on it and count the petals , but it was of no use . 
At last , whether it was her gaze , or the perfume in her hair , or what I do not know , but I almost felt as though I was being mesmerized . 
At last she roused herself . 
Incubu , she said , lovest thou power ? 'I replied that I supposed all men loved power of one sort or another . 
Thou shalt have it , she said . 
Lovest thou wealth ? 'I said I liked wealth for what it brought . 
Thou shalt have it , she said . 
By this time my nerves were on such a stretch that I was shaking like a leaf . 
I knew that something awful was going to happen , but she held me under a kind of spell , and I could not help myself . 
Nay , peace and hear me . 
See , a crown lies at thy feet , my lord Incubu , and with that fortune a woman whom some have wished to woo . 
Now mayst thou answer , oh my chosen , and soft shall thy words fall upon mine ears . 
Oh Sorais , I said , I pray thee speak not thus you see I had not time to pick and choose my words for this thing cannot be . 
I am bethrothed to thy sister Nyleptha , oh Sorais , and I love her and her alone . 
'Next moment it struck me that I had said an awful thing , and I looked up to see the results . 
When I spoke , Sorais' face was hidden in her hands , and as my words reached her she slowly raised it , and I shrank back dismayed . 
It was ashy white , and her eyes were flaming . 
She rose to her feet and seemed to be choking , but the awful thing was that she was so quiet about it all . 
At last she spoke one word , and one only GO ! 'And I went , and glad enough I was to get out of it , and here I am . 
Give me another cup of wine , there's a good fellow , and tell me , what is to be done ? I shook my head , for the affair was indeed serious . 
'Nyleptha had better be told of this at once , I said , 'and perhaps I had better tell her she might receive your account with suspicion . 
'Who is captain of her guard tonight ? I went on . 
'Very well then , there will be no chance of her being got at . 
I don't think that her sister would stick at that . 
I suppose one must tell Good of what has happened . 
'Oh , I don't know , said Sir Henry . 
'It would hurt his feelings , poor fellow ! You see , he takes a lively personal interest in Sorais . 
'That's true and after all , perhaps there is no need to tell him . 
He will find out the truth soon enough . 
Look there ! and I pointed to two Court messengers , who were speeding away from the door of Sorais' private apartments . 
Presently , however , I spied a horseman riding furiously through the northern gate of the city , and in him I recognized the other messenger . 
'Ah ! I said , 'Sorais is a woman of spirit . 
She is acting at once , and will strike quick and hard . 
Well , I'm off to Nyleptha . 
Just you stop where you are , old fellow , and try to get your nerves straight again . 
You'll need them all , I can tell you , unless I have observed human nature in the rough for fifty years for nothing . 
And off I went accordingly . 
I gained audience of the Queen without trouble . 
She was expecting Curtis , and was not best pleased to see my mahogany coloured face instead . 
Oh , what a rage she flew into ! It was a sight to see her , she looked so lovely . 
'How darest thou come to me with such a tale ? she cried . 
'It is a lie to say that my Lord was making love to Sorais , my sister . 
'Pardon me , oh Queen , I answered , 'I said that Sorais was making love to thy lord . 
'Spin me no spiders' webs of words . 
She had not stooped so low had he not shown the way . 
Oh , truly hath the poet said that man is like a snake , whom to touch is poison , and whom none can hold . 
'The remark , oh Queen , is excellent , but methinks thou hast misread the poet . 
Nyleptha , I went on , 'thou knowest well that thy words are empty foolishness , and that this is no time for folly . 
'How darest thou ? she broke in , stamping her foot . 
The moments which thou dost waste in idle anger may well cost thee thy crown and all of us our lives . 
Already Sorais' horsemen go forth and call to arms . 
In thee days' time Nasta will rouse himself in his fastnesses like a lion in the evening , and his growling will be heard throughout the North . 
hath a sweet voice , and she will not sing in vain . 
The transformation was sudden but entire . 
'Thy words are very wise , Macumazahn . 
Ah , what a Queen I should be if only I had no heart ! To be heartless that is to conquer all . 
She shall not prevail against me . 
I , too , have my friends and my retainers . 
I will break her strength and scatter her armies . 
Eternal night shall be the portion of Sorais of the Night . 
Give me that parchment and the ink . 
Now summon the officer in the ante room . 
He is a trusty man . 
I did as I was bid ! and the man , a veteran and quiet looking gentleman of the guard , named Kara , entered , bowing low . 
Let none come in and none go out , or thy life shall pay the cost . 
The man looked startled , but he merely said , 'The Queen's word be done , and departed . 
Then Nyleptha sent a messenger to Sir Henry , and presently he arrived looking uncommonly uncomfortable . 
Just after Curtis arrived the officer returned , and reported that Sorais was GONE . 
We looked at each other significantly . 
The blow had fallen very soon . 
Then we set to work . 
, that Good had come back from his hawking and gone on duty . 
Before we did so , however , it occurred to Curtis to tell old Umslopogaas to keep a look out in the neighbourhood of Nyleptha's private apartments . 
His presence in the corridors would not , therefore , be likely to excite remark . 
Without any comment the Zulu took up his axe and departed , and we also departed to bed . 
I seemed to have been asleep but a few minutes when I was awakened by a peculiar sensation of uneasiness . 
'How long hast thou been there ? I asked testily , for it is not pleasant to be aroused in such a fashion . 
'Mayhap the half of an hour , Macumazahn . 
I have a word for thee . 
'Speak on , I said , now wide enough awake . 
There I waited for many hours , when suddenly I perceived a dark figure coming secretly towards me . 
It was the figure of a woman , and in her hand she held a dagger . 
Behind that figure crept another unseen by the woman . 
It was Bougwan following in her tracks . 
His shoes were off , and for so fat a man he followed very well . 
The woman passed me , and the starlight shone upon her face . 
'Who was it ? I asked impatiently . 
'The face was the face of the Lady of the Night , and of a truth she is well named . 
'I waited , and Bougwan passed me also . 
So we went slowly and without a sound up the long chamber . 
First the woman , then Bougwan , and then I and the woman saw not Bougwan , and Bougwan saw not me . 
At last the Lady of the Night came to the curtains that shut off the sleeping place of the White Queen , and put out her left hand to part them . 
I could hear her breathe , and see one white arm lying on the coverlid like a streak of snow on the dry grass . 
The Lady of the Night doubled herself thus , and with the long knife lifted crept towards the bed . 
So straight did she gaze thereat that she never thought to look behind her . 
When she was quite close Bougwan touched her on the arm , and she caught her breath and turned , and I saw the knife flash , and heard it strike . 
Well was it for Bougwan that he had the skin of iron on him , or he had been pierced . 
Then for the first time he saw who the woman was , and without a word he fell back astonished , and unable to speak . 
So close did she pass to me that her dress touched me , and I was nigh to slaying her as she went . 
In the first outer room she spoke to Bougwan in a whisper and , clasping her hands thus , she pleaded with him , but what she said I know not . 
And so they passed on to the second outer room , she pleading and he shaking his head , and saying , Nay , nay , nay . 
'Ay , gone , and there stood Bougwan staring at the wall like one asleep , and presently he went too , and I waited a while and came away also . 
'If I be , Macumazahn , behold what the dream left with me . 
The knife broke upon Bougwan's bosom and as I passed I picked this up in the sleeping place of the White Queen . 
It was a sight to watch Curtis' face as he heard it . 
'Great Heavens ! he said 'here have I been sleeping away while Nyleptha was nearly murdered and all through me , too . 
What a fiend that Sorais must be ! It would have served her well if Umslopogaas had cut her down in the act . 
'Ay , said the Zulu . 
'Fear not I should have slain her ere she struck . 
I was but waiting the moment . 
And , as the issue proved , I was right . 
After he had told his tale Umslopogaas went off unconcernedly to get his morning meal , and Sir Henry and I fell to talking . 
Indeed , he spoke in the most unmeasured terms on the matter . 
I let him run on awhile , reflecting to myself how easy we find it to be hard on the weaknesses of others , and how tender we are to our own . 
He listened to this jobation submissively , and then frankly acknowledged that he had spoken hardly . 
It is one of the best points in Sir Henry's character that he is always ready to admit it when he is in the wrong . 
A foul and wicked murder had been attempted , and he had let the murderess escape , and thereby , among other things , allowed her to gain a complete ascendency over himself . 
Hurrying out to see what was the matter , I was met by a ludicrous sight . 
The little Frenchman was running up the courtyard at an extraordinary speed , and after him sped Umslopogaas like a great greyhound . 
Then , satisfied with what he had done , the Zulu folded his arms and stood grimly contemplating the Frenchman's kicks , and listening to his yells , which were awful . 
'What art thou doing ? I said , running up . 
Never did I see such a sight as he presented , his clothes half torn off his back , and bleeding as he was in every direction from the sharp thorns . 
There he lay and yelled and rolled , and there was no getting anything out of him . 
At last I got to the truth of the matter . 
Accordingly he grated up a quantity of white fish very finely , and mixed it with the Zulu's porridge , who swallowed it nearly all down in ignorance of what he was eating . 
This incident was unimportant enough in itself , but I narrate it because it led to serious consequences . 
When he had gone I gave Umslopogaas a jobation and told him that I was ashamed of his behaviour . 
'Ah , well , Macumazahn , he said , 'you must be gentle with me , for here is not my place . 
I am weary of it , weary to death of eating and drinking , of sleeping and giving in marriage . 
I love not this soft life in stone houses that takes the heart out of a man , and turns his strength to water and his flesh to fat . 
I love not the white robes and the delicate women , the blowing of trumpets and the flying of hawks . 
'Ah , I said , 'that is thy complaint , is it ? Thou hast the blood sickness , hast thou ? And the Woodpecker wants a tree . 
And at thy age , too . 
Shame on thee ! Umslopogaas . 
'Ay , Macumazahn , mine is a red trade , yet is it better and more honest than some . 
Better is it to slay a man in fair fight than to suck out his heart's blood in buying and selling and usury after your white fashion . 
But there ! there ! thou hast thy ways , and I mine each to his own people and his own place . 
The high veldt ox will die in the fat bush country , and so is it with me , Macumazahn . 
I took the pinch of snuff with some emotion . 
It was quite true , I was much attached to the bloodthirsty old ruffian . 
Anyway , I was very fond of him , though I should never have thought of telling him so . 
'Ay , old wolf , I said , 'thine is a strange love . 
Thou wouldst split me to the chin if I stood in thy path tomorrow . 
'Thou speakest truth , Macumazahn , that would I if it came in the way of duty , but I should love thee all the same when the blow had gone fairly home . 
Is there any chance of some fighting here , Macumazahn ? he went on in an insinuating voice . 
'Methought that what I saw last night did show that the two great Queens were vexed one with another . 
Else had the Lady of the Night not brought that dagger with her . 
I agreed with him that it showed that more or less pique and irritation existed between the ladies , and told him how things stood , and that they were quarrelling over Incubu . 
'Ah , is it so ? he exclaimed , springing up in delight 'then will there be war as surely as the rivers rise in the rains war to the end . 
Women love the last blow as well as the last word , and when they fight for love they are pitiless as a wounded buffalo . 
See thou , Macumazahn , a woman will swim through blood to her desire , and think nought of it . 
With these eyes have I seen it once , and twice also . 
Ah , Macumazahn , we shall see this fine place of houses burning yet , and hear the battle cries come ringing up the street . 
After all , I have not wandered for nothing . 
Can this folk fight , think ye ? Just then Sir Henry joined us , and Good arrived , too , from another direction , looking very pale and hollow eyed . 
The moment Umslopogaas saw the latter he stopped his bloodthirsty talk and greeted him . 
'Ah , Bougwan , he cried , 'greeting to thee , Inkoos ! Thou art surely weary . 
But the man's brother had a favourite wife and loved not the woman , and he made a mock of her . 
And he knew it was a lie , yet because of his great love of the woman , who was very fair , did he listen to her words and made war . 
And after a time the woman came to him and said , I have lost the past , I will be thy wife . 
And in his heart he knew that it was a lie and that she thought the evil thing , yet because of his love did he take her to wife . 
Then did she slink back like a gorged lioness and place the thong of the red axe back upon his wrist and go her ways . 
'But death could not wipe out the evil she had done , and on him rested the weight of all her sin . 
Therefore is he an outcast and his name a scorn among his own people for on him , and him only , resteth the burden of her who betrayed . 
The old Zulu paused , and I saw that he was deeply agitated by his own story . 
Presently he lifted his head , which he had bowed to his breast , and went on 'I was the man , Bougwan . 
Listen ! When thou didst creep after the Lady of the Night I was hard upon thy track . 
Forgive me , my father , if my words are sharp , but out of a full heart are they spoken . 
See her no more , so shalt thou go down with honour to the grave . 
Else because of the beauty of a woman that weareth as a garment of fur shalt thou be even as I am , and perchance with more cause . 
And now , when at last he spoke , it was in a tone of humility quite foreign to him . 
I wonder if you fellows can understand how humiliated I feel , and the bitterest part of it is that I deserve it all . 
Of course I should have handed Sorais over to the guard , but I could not , and that is a fact . 
I let her go and I promised to say nothing , more is the shame to me . 
And now you can do what you like , I deserve it all . 
'Look here , old fellow , said Sir Henry , 'just stop a minute . 
I have a little tale to tell you too . 
And he went on to narrate what had taken place on the previous day between Sorais and himself . 
This was a finishing stroke to poor Good . 
On our way we were joined by Good , who was looking exceedingly depressed . 
Nor did she come alone . 
Preceding her was Agon , the High Priest , arrayed in his most gorgeous vestments , and on either side were other priests . 
The reason for their presence was obvious coming with them it would have been sacrilege to attempt to detain her . 
Behind her were a number of the great lords , and behind them a small body of picked guards . 
In her hand , too , she bore a toy spear , beautifully made and fashioned of solid silver . 
Up the hall she came , looking like a lioness in her conscious pride and beauty , and as she came the spectators fell back bowing and made a path for her . 
Fear not , I give thee safe conduct . 
Sorais answered with a haughty look , and swept on up the hall till she stood right before the thrones . 
'A boon , oh Queen ! she cried again . 
'Speak on , my sister what is there that I can give thee who hath half our kingdom ? 'Thou canst tell me a true word me and the people of Zu Vendis . 
Up she rose and , descending from the throne , swept in all the glory of her royal grace on to where her lover stood . 
There she stopped and untwined the golden snake that was wound around her arm . 
What , am I a Queen , and yet not free to choose the man whom I will love ? Then should I be lower than the meanest girl in all my provinces . 
I think I have said somewhere of her that she reminded me of the sea on a calm day , having the same aspect of sleeping power about her . 
Well , it was all awake now , and like the face of the furious ocean it awed and yet fascinated me . 
She lifted her white face , the teeth set , and there were purple rings beneath her glowing eyes . 
Thrice she tried to speak and thrice she failed , but at last her voice came . 
Raising her silver spear , she shook it , and the light gleamed from it and from the golden scales of her cuirass . 
And as for thee , Incubu , thou shalt die in yet another fashion that I will not tell thee now . 
She ceased , panting for breath , for her passion shook her like a storm , and a murmur , partly of horror and partly of admiration , ran through the hall . 
Sorais , I fear thee not . 
I weep for that which thou wilt bring upon our people and on thyself , but for myself I say I fear thee not . 
'It is NOT false , said I , producing the broken point of the dagger and holding it up . 
'Where is the haft from which this flew , oh Sorais ? 'It is not false , cried Good , determined at last to act like a loyal man . 
'I took the Lady of the Night by the White Queen's bed , and on my breast the dagger broke . 
'Who is on my side ? cried Sorais , shaking her silver spear , for she saw that public sympathy was turning against her . 
'What , Bougwan , thou comest not ? she said , addressing Good , who was standing close to her , in a low , concentrated voice . 
'WAR ! WAR ! WAR ! she cried . 
Who follows Sorais of the Night to victory and honour ? Instantly the whole concourse began to break up in indescribable confusion . 
Many present hastened to throw in their lot with the 'Lady of the Night' , but some came from her following to us . 
Amongst the former was an under officer of Nyleptha's own guard , who suddenly turned and made a run for the doorway through which Sorais' people were already passing . 
This was the first blood spilt in the war . 
'Shut the gates , I shouted , thinking that we might perhaps catch Sorais so , and not being troubled with the idea of committing sacrilege . 
This cunning and ferocious old man had not forgiven us for those hippopotami , or rather that was what he said . 
What he meant was that he would never brook the introduction of our wider ways of thought and foreign learning and influence while there was a possibility of stamping us out . 
Also he knew that we possessed a different system of religion , and no doubt was in daily terror of our attempting to introduce it into Zu Vendis . 
One day he asked me if we had any religion in our country , and I told him that so far as I could remember we had ninety five different ones . 
When we knew that Agon was caught , Nyleptha , Sir Henry , and I discussed what was to be done with him . 
I was for closely incarcerating him , but Nyleptha shook her head , saying that it would produce a disastrous effect throughout the country . 
I only wished that old Agon could have heard her , it would have frightened him . 
'Well , said Sir Henry , 'if we are not to imprison him , I suppose that we may as well let him go . 
He is of no use here . 
Nyleptha looked at him in a curious sort of way , and said in a dry little voice , 'Thinkest thou so , my lord ? 'Eh ? said Curtis . 
'No , I do not see what is the use of keeping him . 
She said nothing , but continued looking at him in a way that was as shy as it was sweet . 
Then at last he understood . 
'Forgive me , Nyleptha , he said , rather tremulously . 
'Mayhap , too , she went on , 'I shall lose my crown , and with my crown my life and thine also . 
Sorais is very strong and very bitter , and if she prevails she will not spare . 
Who can read the future ? Happiness is the world's White Bird , that alights seldom , and flies fast and far till one day he is lost in the clouds . 
Therefore should we hold him fast if by any chance he rests for a little space upon our hand . 
And she lifted her sweet face to him and smiled into his eyes , and once more I felt a curious pang of jealousy and turned and went away . 
Of course we said yes , and off we went to the chapel , where we found Agon looking as sulky as any High Priest possibly could , and no wonder . 
It appeared that he and Nyleptha had a slight difference of opinion about the coming ceremony . 
In Zu Vendis members of the Royal House can only be married by the High Priest or a formally appointed deputy . 
I gave it to my poor boy Harry years ago , and after his death I found it among his things and took it back again . 
It is a solemn step which you are taking , and I think that you ought , so far as circumstances will allow , to give it the sanction of your own religion . 
'I have thought of that , he said , 'and I wish you would . 
I do not feel half married yet . 
Then Sir Henry took a plain gold ring from his little finger and placed it on hers , and so on to the end . 
Indeed , he at once set me down as a rival High Priest , and hated me accordingly . 
However , in the end off he went , positively bristling with indignation , and I knew that we might look out for danger from his direction . 
And off went Good and I , and old Umslopogaas also , leaving the happy pair to themselves , and very low we all felt . 
Marriages are supposed to be cheerful things , but my experience is that they are very much the reverse to everybody , except perhaps the two people chiefly interested . 
It is always Nyleptha this and Nyleptha that Nyleptha , in short , from morning till night in one way or another , either expressed or understood . 
Yes , he would be angry if anybody said so , but it is a fact for all that . 
It may , perhaps , be remembered that , after his quarrel with Umslopogaas , Alphonse had gone off in an exceedingly ill temper to sulk over his scratches . 
When she caught sight of Alphonse , Sorais halted her train and called to him . 
At first I was much puzzled to know what object Sorais could have had in carrying off the poor little Frenchman . 
She could hardly stoop so low as to try to wreak her fury on one whom she knew was only a servant . 
At last , however , an idea occurred to me . 
Again , Sir Henry's magnificent personal appearance made a deep impression upon a race who possess a greater love of beauty than any other I have ever been acquainted with . 
Beauty may be prized in other countries , but in Zu Vendis it is almost worshipped , as indeed the national love of statuary shows . 
Now , from all this it will be seen that the outcry against us was to a considerable extent fictitious , and nobody knew it better than Sorais herself . 
I told Good that I thought that that was her plan , and his face was a sight to see he was so horrified at the idea . 
'What , he said , 'dress up that little wretch to represent me ? Why , I shall have to get out of the country ! My reputation will be ruined for ever . 
The messages and orders which had been despatched by Nyleptha two days before now began to take effect , and multitudes of armed men came pouring into the city . 
Men came in freely , and all the day long the great roads leading to Milosis were spotted with the banners of lords arriving from their distant places to rally round Nyleptha . 
But if our force was large , Sorais' was , according to the reports brought in day by day by our spies , much larger . 
Another mighty lord , named Belusha , who lived in the great horse breeding district , had come in with twelve thousand cavalry , and so on . 
Indeed , what between one thing and another , it seemed certain that she would gather a fully armed host of nearly one hundred thousand men . 
And then came news that Sorais was proposing to break up her camp and march on the Frowning City itself , desolating the country as she came . 
Thereon arose the question whether it would be best to meet her at Milosis or to go out and give her battle . 
When our opinion was asked upon the subject , Good and I unhesitatingly gave it in favour of an advance . 
If we were to shut ourselves up in the city and wait to be attacked , it seemed to us that our inaction would be set down to fear . 
Ardour for a cause will soon evaporate if the cause does not move but sits down to conquer . 
Therefore we cast our vote for moving out and giving battle in the open , instead of waiting till we were drawn from our walls like a badger from a hole . 
Sir Henry's opinion coincided with ours , and so , needless to say , did that of Nyleptha , who , like a flint , was always ready to flash out fire . 
A great map of the country was brought and spread out before her . 
I know the spot , here shalt thou meet them , and drive them before thee like dust before the storm . 
But Curtis looked grave and said nothing . 
CHAPTER XX THE BATTLE OF THE PASS It was on the third morning after this incident of the map that Sir Henry and I started . 
With the exception of a small guard , all the great host had moved on the night before , leaving the Frowning City very silent and empty . 
At the gate she reined in her horse and bade us farewell . 
And now today the same mood seemed to be on her . 
'Fare thee well , Macumazahn ! she said . 
'Remember , I trust to thy wits , which are as a needle to a spear handle compared to those of my people , to save us from Sorais . 
I know that thou wilt do thy duty . 
I bowed and explained to her my horror of fighting , and my fear lest I should lose my head , at which she laughed gently and turned to Curtis . 
'Fare thee well , my lord ! she said . 
'Come back with victory , and as a king , or on thy soldiers' spears . 
Alluding to the Zu Vendi custom of carrying dead officers on a framework of spears . 
Sir Henry said nothing , but turned his horse to go perhaps he had a bit of a lump in his throat . 
One gets over it afterwards , but these sort of partings are trying when one has only been married a week . 
'Here , added Nyleptha , 'will I greet thee when ye return in triumph . 
About a mile farther on , however , we heard galloping behind us , and looking round , saw a mounted soldier coming towards us , leading Nyleptha's matchless steed Daylight . 
Little did I guess at the time what service that noble horse would render in our sorest need . 
It is curious to look back and realize upon what trivial and apparently coincidental circumstances great events frequently turn as easily and naturally as a door on its hinges . 
By midday we overtook the rear guard of the great army of which Sir Henry then formally took over the command . 
It was a heavy responsibility , and it oppressed him very much , but the Queen's injunctions on the point were such as did not admit of being trifled with . 
He was beginning to find out that greatness has its responsibilities as well as its glories . 
Accordingly before dawn we sent forward fifteen hundred cavalry to seize the position . 
On the advance of our supports , however , Sorais' force drew off , carrying their dead and wounded with them . 
Our force of sixty thousand men was , roughly speaking , divided as follows . 
In the centre was a dense body of twenty thousand foot soldiers , armed with spears , swords , and hippopotamus hide shields , breast and back plates . 
The Zu Vendi people do not use bows . 
A. Q. These formed the chest of the army , and were supported by five thousand foot , and three thousand horse in reserve . 
This makes in all sixty thousand men . 
It was evident that the spies had not exaggerated we were outnumbered by at least a third . 
'My word , Good , said I , when I saw them , 'you will catch it tomorrow when those gentlemen charge ! whereat Good not unnaturally looked rather anxious . 
As the hours wore on , the silence gradually gathered more deeply over the opposing hosts . 
It was a very wearying night , for in addition to the endless things that had to be attended to , there was our gnawing suspense to reckon with . 
The fray which tomorrow would witness would be so vast , and the slaughter so awful , that stout indeed must the heart have been that was not overwhelmed at the prospect . 
It was a dreadful thought , and set one wondering about the responsibilities of the great ones of the earth . 
But as I realized then , it is useless to question that eternal Sphinx , the future . 
And so at length I gave up wondering , being forced humbly to leave the issue in the balancing hands of Providence and the morrow . 
And at last up came the red sun , and the huge camps awoke with a clash , and a roar , and gathered themselves together for battle . 
It was a beautiful and awe inspiring scene , and old Umslopogaas , leaning on his axe , contemplated it with grim delight . 
'Never have I seen the like , Macumazahn , never , he said . 
'The battles of my people are as the play of children to what this will be . 
Thinkest thou that they will fight it out ? 'Ay , I answered sadly , 'to the death . 
Content thyself , Woodpecker , for once shalt thou peck thy fill . 
Time went on , and still there was no sign of an attack . 
A force of cavalry crossed the brook , indeed , and rode slowly along our front , evidently taking stock of our position and numbers . 
With this we did not attempt to interfere , as our decision was to stand strictly on the defensive , and not to waste a single man . 
The men breakfasted and stood to their arms , and the hours wore on . 
Guessing that this was a prelude to the beginning of the battle , we remained still and made ready . 
We had not long to wait . 
This I did , remaining behind myself with the rest of my men . 
Off went the five thousand horsemen , drawn up in a wedge like form , and I must say that the general in command handled them very ably . 
I do not think it reached them more than two thirds as strong as it went out ten minutes before . 
I could also see that the opposing bodies of cavalry on our left wing were drawing back , but how the fight went with them I do not quite know . 
It is as much as I can do to describe what took place immediately around me . 
About the same time , too , an awful and heartshaking roar told me that the main battle had closed in on the centre and extreme left . 
To and fro swung the contending lines in that dread struggle , now giving way , now gaining a little in the mad yet ordered confusion of attack and defence . 
Nasta's wild swordsmen were now breaking in red waves against the sullen rock like squares . 
And so for four long hours the battle raged almost without a pause , and at the end of that time , if we had gained nothing we had lost nothing . 
At last the attacks slackened , and Sorais' army drew back , having , I began to think , had enough of it . 
On they came like an avalanche I saw her golden helm gleaming in the van our counter charges of cavalry entirely failing to check their forward sweep . 
As for Good's three squares , they were swept backwards like boats upon an incoming tide , and the foremost one was burst into and lost half its remaining men . 
But the effort was too fierce and terrible to last . 
Suddenly the battle came , as it were , to a turning point , and for a minute or two stood still . 
Then it began to move towards Sorais' camp . 
A few more minutes and it was broken , its streaming colours sank , and I lost sight of Good in the confused and hideous slaughter that ensued . 
Seeing me coming , and being warned by the thunder of my horses' hoofs , the majority of them faced round , and gave us a right warm welcome . 
Meanwhile I had to get along as best I could , for I was pretty well lost sight of by my men in the mad confusion of the moment . 
My voice , of course , could not be heard in the midst of the clanging of steel and the shrieks of rage and agony . 
Presently I found myself mixed up with the remnants of the square , which had formed round its leader Good , and was fighting desperately for existence . 
I stumbled against somebody , and glancing down , caught sight of Good's eyeglass . 
He had been beaten to his knee . 
Over him was a great fellow swinging a heavy sword . 
For a minute I fell on to my hands and knees among the dead and dying , and turned sick and faint . 
'Near go that , he shouted 'but all's well that ends well . 
I assented , but I could not help feeling that it had not ended well for me . 
In another minute or two the enemy was in slow and sullen retreat across the little stream , where they once more re formed . 
At last it was our turn to attack . 
On we moved , over the piled up masses of dead and dying , and were approaching the stream , when suddenly I perceived an extraordinary sight . 
It was impossible even then to mistake those curling mustachios . 
Ah yes ! they little thought it , but I was ensconced beneath a banner , and I heard it all . 
The guard will leave open the little gate leading from the great stair and go away , and Nasta and Agon's priests will come in and kill her . 
Themselves they would not kill her . 
Just as we reached him the advance began again . 
A bloody cloth was bound around his head , but I saw that his eye was as bright and keen as ever . 
Beside him was old Umslopogaas , his axe red with blood , but looking quite fresh and uninjured . 
'What's wrong , Quatermain ? he shouted . 
There is a plot to murder the Queen tomorrow at dawn . 
Alphonse here , who has just escaped from Sorais , has overheard it all , and I rapidly repeated to him what the Frenchman had told me . 
Curtis' face turned deadly pale and his jaw dropped . 
'At dawn , he gasped , 'and it is now sunset it dawns before four and we are nearly a hundred miles off nine hours at the outside . 
What is to be done ? An idea entered into my head . 
'Is that horse of yours fresh ? I said . 
'Yes , I have only just got on to him when my last was killed , and he has been fed . 
Get off him , and let Umslopogaas mount he can ride well . 
We will be at Milosis before dawn , or if we are not well , we cannot help it . 
No , no it is impossible for you to leave now . 
You would be seen , and it would turn the fate of the battle . 
It is not half won yet . 
The soldiers would think you were making a bolt of it . 
In a moment he was down , and at my bidding Umslopogaas sprang into the empty saddle . 
'Now farewell , I said . 
'Send a thousand horsemen with remounts after us in an hour if possible . 
Stay , despatch a general to the left wing to take over the command and explain my absence . 
'You will do your best to save her , Quatermain ? he said in a broken voice . 
'Ay , that I will . 
Go on you are being left behind . 
The distinguishing scenic effect from that distance was the countless distinct flashes of light reflected from the swords and spears , otherwise the panorama was not so grand as might have been expected . 
'But , he added , 'I do not think that they will fight again . 
We have fed them with too strong a meat . 
Ah ! it is well to have lived ! At last I have seen a fight worth seeing . 
Ay , by T'Chaka's head I swear it ! and he shook Inkosi kaas as he galloped . 
By now the darkness was closing in , but fortunately there would be a moon later , and the road was good . 
Down the side of slopes we galloped , across wide vales that stretched to the foot of far off hills . 
And so on , still on , without break or pause for hour after hour . 
At last I felt that even the splendid animal that I rode was beginning to give out . 
I looked at my watch it was nearly midnight , and we were considerably more than half way . 
Leaving Umslopogaas to hold the horses , I hobbled to the spring and drank deep of its sweet waters . 
Then , having laved my fevered head and hands , I returned , and the Zulu went and drank . 
But on the top she seemed to gather herself together , and rattled down the slope with long , convulsive strides , breathing in gasps . 
As I struggled to my feet the brave beast raised her head and looked at me with piteous bloodshot eyes , and then her head dropped with a groan and she was dead . 
Umslopogaas pulled up beside the carcase , and I looked at him in dismay . 
Without a single word he sprang from the saddle and began to hoist me into it . 
'What wilt thou do ? I asked . 
'Run , he answered , seizing my stirrup leather . 
Daylight sped along at a long stretching hand gallop , giving the gaunt Zulu a lift at every stride . 
It was a wonderful thing to see old Umslopogaas run mile after mile , his lips slightly parted and his nostrils agape like the horse's . 
Every five miles or so we stopped for a few minutes to let him get his breath , and then flew on again . 
It was the Temple of the Sun , now not more than five miles away . 
'I reach it or I die , he gasped . 
Oh , that last five miles ! The skin was rubbed from the inside of my legs , and every movement of my horse gave me anguish . 
Poor Daylight , too , was pretty nearly finished , and no wonder . 
'OPEN ! OPEN ! a messenger , a messenger with tidings of the war ! 'What news ? cried the guard . 
OPEN ! OPEN ! I bring tidings . 
The great gates ran back on their rollers , and the drawbridge fell with a rattling crash , and we dashed on through the one and over the other . 
'What news , my lord , what news ? cried the guard . 
'Incubu rolls Sorais back , as the wind a cloud , I answered , and was gone . 
On , clattering through the sleeping streets . 
We are passing the Flower Temple now one mile more , only one little mile hold on , keep your life in thee , see the houses run past of themselves . 
Up , good horse , up , there but fifty yards now . 
Ah ! you see your stables and stagger on gallantly . 
'Thank God , the palace at last ! and see , the first arrows of the dawn are striking on the Temple's golden dome . 
Of course , the roof of the Temple , being so high , caught the light some time before the breaking of the dawn . 
'Is it thou , Kara ? I cry 'I am Macumazahn . 
Bid the guard let down the bridge and throw wide the gate . 
Except Kara , there was nobody to be seen , and his look was wild , and his garments were all torn . 
'Where are the guard ? I gasped , fearing his answer as I never feared anything before . 
I fear , I greatly fear , that we are betrayed . 
His words gave me fresh energy . 
We reached the first ante room no guards the second , still no guards . 
'Who is it ? she cries . 
'I left Incubu wounded , but leading the advance against Sorais last night at sundown therefore let thy heart have rest . 
Sorais is beaten back all along her lines , and thy arms prevail . 
'I knew it , she cried in triumph . 
'Follow us and be silent , I said to them as they gazed with wondering eyes , clinging one to another . 
So we went into the first ante room . 
'Now , I said , 'give us wine to drink and food , if ye have it , for we are near to death . 
'Hark to me , Nyleptha , I said , as I put down the empty tankard . 
'Hast thou here among these thy waiting ladies any two of discretion ? 'Ay , she said , 'surely . 
Nay , question not do as I say , and quickly . 
Kara here will let out the maids . 
'Go swiftly and secretly go for your very lives , I added . 
Thither , too , Umslopogaas and I made our way , followed by the Queen and her women . 
We were in the courtyard now , and here my wound pained me so that I had to take Nyleptha's arm , while Umslopogaas rolled along after us , eating as he went . 
Now we were across it , and had reached the narrow doorway through the palace wall that opened on to the mighty stair . 
I looked through and stood aghast , as well I might . 
The door was gone , and so were the outer gates of bronze entirely gone . 
They had been taken from their hinges , and as we afterwards found , hurled from the stairway to the ground two hundred feet beneath . 
CHAPTER XXII HOW UMSLOPOGAAS HELD THE STAIR We looked at one another . 
'Thou seest , I said , 'they have taken away the door . 
Is there aught with which we may fill the place ? Speak quickly for they will be on us ere the daylight . 
'I have it , said Nyleptha , who , as usual with her , rose to the emergency in a wonderful way . 
Without delay we got some of the blocks on to the stretchers , and four of the girls carried them to the doorway . 
'Listen , Macumazahn , said Umslopogaas , 'if those low fellows come , it is I who will hold the stair against them till the door is built up . 
Nay , nay , it will be a man's death gainsay me not , old friend . 
It has been a good day , let it now be good night . 
At this time , I too was overcome , and was forced to sit down by the doorway , and content myself with directing operations . 
The girls brought the block , while Kara and Nyleptha built them up across the six foot wide doorway , a triple row of them , for less would be useless . 
The light was growing now , and presently , in the silence , we heard a commotion at the far bottom of the stair , and the faint clinking of armed men . 
As yet the wall was only two feet high , and we had been eight minutes at the building of it . 
We had been nearly a quarter of an hour at the work now , and it was almost three feet high . 
The great man rose , stretched himself , and swung Inkosi kaas round his head . 
'It is well , he said . 
'I feel as a young man once more . 
My strength has come back to me , ay , even as a lamp flares up before it dies . 
Fear not , I shall fight a good fight the wine and the sleep have put a new heart into me . 
'Macumazahn , I have dreamed a dream . 
The hour has come for us , old hunter . 
So be it we have had our time , but I would that in it I had seen some more such fights as yesterday's . 
'What , comest thou too ? laughed out the old warrior . 
'Welcome a welcome to thee , brave heart ! Ow ! for the man who can die like a man ow ! for the death grip and the ringing of steel . 
Ow ! we are ready . 
We wet our beaks like eagles , our spears flash in the sun we shake our assegais , and are hungry to fight . 
As he dropped , his round hippopotamus hide shield fell from his hand on to the marble , and the Zulu stooped down and seized it , still chanting as he did so . 
In another second the sturdy Kara had also slain a man , and then began a scene the like of which has not been known to me . 
And ever as the fight thickened , the old Zulu's eye seemed to get quicker and his arm stronger . 
Umslopogaas was alone now , but he never blenched or turned . 
I could do no more for I had lost my revolver in the battle . 
Only one man stayed , and he was the great lord Nasta , Nyleptha's suitor , and the father of the plot . 
Raising the sword again , Nasta sprang forward to make an end of him , but little he knew his foe . 
With a shake and a yell of fury , the Zulu gathered himself together and sprang straight at Nasta's throat , as I have sometimes seen a wounded lion spring . 
He struck him full as his foot was on the topmost stair , and his long arms closing round him like iron bands , down they rolled together struggling furiously . 
In a minute the end came . 
The man was a mass of wounds , and a glance at his wild eye told me that he was dying . 
Then suddenly he lifted up his voice and cried aloud 'I die , I die but it was a kingly fray . 
Where are they who came up the great stair ? I see them not . 
Next , as though a new thought had struck him , he lifted the red axe and kissed the blade . 
'Farewell , Inkosi kaas , he cried . 
Then , suddenly , with awful force he brought it down straight on to the crown of the mass of sacred stone . 
And thus the hero died . 
'Ay , said Nyleptha , with that quick wit which distinguishes her . 
'Ay , my people , he has shattered the stone , and behold the prophecy is fulfilled , for a stranger king rules in Zu Vendis . 
Incubu , my lord , hath beat Sorais back , and I fear her no more , and to him who hath saved the Crown it shall surely be . 
I , the Queen , have said it . 
And as I looked , to my astonishment he opened his eyes and , lifting his head a little , whinnied faintly . 
Then I went on and got off to bed , and was washed and had my mail shirt removed . 
They hurt me a great deal in getting it off , and no wonder , for on my left breast and side was a black bruise the size of a saucer . 
The next thing that I remember was the tramp of horsemen outside the palace wall , some ten hours later . 
When they left , the wreck of Sorais' army was in full retreat upon M'Arstuna , followed by all our effective cavalry . 
that Sorais had occupied the night before , and proposed marching to M'Arstuna on the morrow . 
Having heard this , I felt that I could die with a light heart , and then everything became a blank . 
When next I awoke the first thing I saw was the round disc of a sympathetic eyeglass , behind which was Good . 
'How are you getting on , old chap ? said a voice from the neighbourhood of the eyeglass . 
'What are you doing here ? I asked faintly . 
'You ought to be at M'Arstuna have you run away , or what ? 'M'Arstuna , he replied cheerfully . 
Israel made for his tents , I can tell you never saw such a sight in my life . 
'And Sorais ? I asked . 
'Sorais oh , Sorais is a prisoner they gave her up , the scoundrels , he added , with a change of tone 'sacrificed the Queen to save their skins , you see . 
She is being brought up here , and I don't know what will happen to her , poor soul ! and he sighed . 
'Where is Curtis ? I asked . 
She rode out to meet us today , and there was a grand to do , I can tell you . 
thought that he had better not come today . 
Just then I heard a familiar voice informing me that 'Monsieur must now couch himself , and looking up perceived Alphonse's enormous black mustachios curling away in the distance . 
'So you are here ? I said . 
'Mais oui , Monsieur the war is now finished , my military instincts are satisfied , and I return to nurse Monsieur . 
, a better or kinder nurse never lived . 
Poor Alphonse ! I hope he will always think of me as kindly as I think of him . 
It seemed to me that he had managed the thing exceedingly well , and showed great ability as a general . 
He was very pleased to see me , dear fellow that he is , and thanked me with tears in his eyes for the little that I had been able to do . 
I saw him , however , start violently when his eyes fell upon my face . 
As for Nyleptha , she was positively radiant now that 'her dear lord' had come back with no other injury than an ugly scar on his forehead . 
That is human nature , which the Positivists tell us is just perfection so no doubt it is all right . 
'And what art thou going to do with Sorais ? I asked her . 
Instantly her bright brow darkened to a frown . 
'Sorais , she said , with a little stamp of the foot 'ah , but Sorais ! Sir Henry hastened to turn the subject . 
'You will soon be about and all right again now , old fellow , he said . 
I shook my head and laughed . 
'Don't deceive yourselves , I said . 
'I may be about for a little , but I shall never be all right again . 
I am a dying man , Curtis . 
I may die slow , but die I must . 
Do you know I have been spitting blood all the morning ? I tell you there is something working away into my lung I can feel it . 
There , don't look distressed I have had my day , and am ready to go . 
Give me the mirror , will you ? I want to look at myself . 
I looked and put it down . 
My grizzled stubby hair was turned snow white , and my yellow face was shrunk like an aged woman's and had two deep purple rings painted beneath the eyes . 
Certainly they fear during the dark hours to pass the place where the hero is buried . 
She was , as usual , dressed in her royal 'kaf' , emblazoned with the emblem of the Sun , and in her right hand she still held the toy spear of silver . 
She coloured a little and then laughed bitterly . 
'At least , I replied , 'thou art still a lady , and therefore one to whom deference is due . 
Also , thou art in an evil case , and therefore it is doubly due . 
'Ay , and that little coward beside thee , she went on , pointing at Alphonse with the silver spear , whereat he looked very uncomfortable 'he escaped and betrayed my plans . 
, 'but it was of no avail . 
He hid beneath a banner in my tent and thus overheard my plans . 
I would that I had slain him , but , alas ! I held my hand . 
'And thou , Macumazahn , I have hard of what thou didst thou art brave , and hast a loyal heart . 
And the black one too , ah , he was a MAN . 
I would fain have seen him hurl Nasta from the stairway . 
'Thou art a strange woman , Sorais , I said 'I pray thee now plead with the Queen Nyleptha , that perchance she may show mercy unto thee . 
'I plead for mercy ! she said and at that moment the Queen entered , accompanied by Sir Henry and Good , and took her seat with an impassive face . 
As for poor Good , he looked intensely ill at ease . 
'Greeting , Sorais ! said Nyleptha , after a short pause . 
'It runs thus Thou didst strive to win the love of my lord Incubu . 
It is for this crime that my sister will slay me , not because I levied war . 
It is perchance happy for thee , Nyleptha , that I fixed my mind upon his love too late . 
'Listen , she went on , raising her voice . 
'I have nought to say save that I would I had won instead of lost . 
And she drew herself up and shot one angry glance at him from her deep fringed eyes , and then began to toy with her spear . 
Sir Henry bent towards Nyleptha and whispered something that I could not catch , and then the Queen spoke . 
'Sorais , ever have I been a good sister to thee . 
But now thou knowest in what sort thou hast repaid me , but I have prevailed , and thy life is forfeit , Sorais . 
'But not for that would I spare thy life , for thy offence has been too heavy it doth drag down the wide wings of my mercy even to the ground . 
Also , while thou dost live the land will never be at peace . 
Sorais flushed up to her eyes and said nothing , and I do not think that I ever saw a man look more miserable than did Sir Henry at that moment . 
Somehow , Nyleptha's way of putting the thing , though true and forcible enough , was not altogether pleasant . 
'I understand , stammered Curtis , looking at Good , 'I understood that he were attached eh attached to to the Queen Sorais . 
All eyes were now turned to Sorais , who stood with that same slow smile upon her beautiful face which I had noticed the first time that I ever saw her . 
May prosperity , peace and plenty deck the life path of one so merciful and so tender , even as flowers do . 
Long mayst thou reign , O great and glorious Queen , and hold thy husband's love in both thy hands , and many be the sons and daughters of thy beauty . 
Surely the act is worthy of thy greatness , my Lord Incubu . 
And now , lastly , I thank thee also , my Lord Bougwan , who in thy turn hast deigned to accept me and my poor beauty . 
And now that I have rendered thanks to all in turn' and again she smiled 'I will add one short word . 
Nyleptha shrieked , and poor Good almost fainted at the sight , while the rest of us rushed towards her . 
Well , they gave her a royal funeral , and there was an end of her . 
It was a month after the last act of the Sorais tragedy that a great ceremony was held in the Flower Temple , and Curtis was formally declared King Consort of Zu Vendis . 
These remarks , which he might fairly have resented , he was so good as to receive with patience , and even to thank me for making them . 
It was immediately after this ceremony that I caused myself to be moved to the house where I am now writing . 
It is a very pleasant country seat , situated about two miles from the Frowning City , on to which it looks . 
Thank God , however , there will not be much more of it . 
It is a week since I wrote the above , and now I take up my pen for the last time , for I know that the end is at hand . 
My brain is still clear and I can manage to write , though with difficulty . 
And so this is the end of it a brief space of troubling , a few restless , fevered , anguished years , and then the arms of that great Angel Death . 
Many times have I been near to them , and now it is my turn at last , and it is well . 
Twenty four hours more and the world will be gone from me , and with it all its hopes and all its fears . 
So is it with us all . 
Well , it is not a good world nobody can say that it is , save those who wilfully blind themselves to facts . 
But I should not wish to live again ! Everything is changing to me . 
The darkness draws near , and the light departs . 
And yet it seems to me that through that darkness I can already see the shining welcome of many a long lost face . 
Harry is there , and others one above all , to my mind the sweetest and most perfect woman that ever gladdened this grey earth . 
And now into the hands of Almighty God , who sent it , do I commit my spirit . 
'I HAVE SPOKEN , as the Zulus say . 
CHAPTER XXIV BY ANOTHER HAND A year has elapsed since our most dear friend Allan Quatermain wrote the words 'I HAVE SPOKEN' at the end of his record of our adventures . 
Nor should I have ventured to make any additions to the record had it not happened that by a most strange accident a chance has arisen of its being conveyed to England . 
, is about to be effectually closed . 
inasmuchas we have made up our minds never to return to Europe . 
Indeed , it would be impossible for us to leave Zu Vendis even if we wished to do so . 
The messenger who is to go and I wish him joy of his journey is Alphonse . 
For a long while he has been wearied to death of Zu Vendis and its inhabitants . 
'Oh , oui , c'est beau , he says , with an expressive shrug 'mais je m'ennuie ce n'est pas chic . 
Again , he complains dreadfully of the absence of cafes and theatres , and moans continually for his lost Annette , of whom he says he dreams three times a week . 
Even the little boys call out at him in the streets , thereby offending his pride and making his life unbearable . 
, rather than remain in ce triste pays . 
Anyhow , on the chance , I may as well add a word or two to dear old Quatermain's narrative . 
He died at dawn on the day following that on which he wrote the last words of the last chapter . 
Nyleptha , Good and myself were present , and a most touching and yet in its way beautiful scene it was . 
An hour before the daybreak it became apparent to us that he was sinking , and our distress was very keen . 
Good's emotion had , by loosening the muscles , naturally caused his eyeglass to fall from its accustomed place , and Quatermain , who always observed everything , observed this also . 
'At last , he gasped , with an attempt at a smile , 'I have seen Good without his eyeglass . 
After that he said no more till the day broke , when he asked to be lifted up to watch the rising of the sun for the last time . 
'In a very few minutes , he said , after gazing earnestly at it , 'I shall have passed through those golden gates . 
Ten minutes afterwards he raised himself and looked us fixedly in the face . 
'I am going a stranger journey than any we have ever taken together . 
Think of me sometimes , he murmured . 
I shall wait for you . 
And with a sigh he fell back dead . 
And so passed away a character that I consider went as near perfection as any it has ever been my lot to encounter . 
I never knew any one so competent to form an accurate judgment of men and their motives . 
'I have studied human nature all my life , he would say , 'and I ought to know something about it , and he certainly did . 
He had but two faults one was his excessive modesty , and the other a slight tendency which he had to be jealous of anybody on whom he concentrated his affections . 
As regards the first of these points , anybody who reads what he has written will be able to form his own opinion but I will add one last instance of it . 
As regards his jealousy , a single instance which I give in justice to myself and Nyleptha will suffice . 
Thus when he complains about my not coming to see him when he is ill , the fact was that , in spite of my entreaties , the doctors positively forbade it . 
But let it pass it is , after all , but one little weakness , which makes no great show among so many and such lovable virtues . 
We shall never see his like again if we live a hundred years . 
He was the ablest man , the truest gentleman , the firmest friend , the finest sportsman , and , I believe , the best shot in all Africa . 
And so ended the very remarkable and adventurous life of Hunter Quatermain . 
Since then things have gone very well with us . 
I hope , however , that he will in time make a suitable marriage and get that unhappy business out of his head . 
, a very fine imperial looking girl , but with too much of her father's intriguing , and yet haughty , spirit to suit my taste . 
But , of course , it is not all plain sailing , and I find the responsibilities very heavy . 
I yet hope to see the shadow of the Cross of Christ lying on the golden dome of the Flower Temple or , if I do not , that my successors may . 
There is one more thing that I intend to devote myself to , and that is the total exclusion of all foreigners from Zu Vendis . 
, have made mankind one whit the happier than they used to be , and I am certain that they have brought many evils in their train . 
presented me with a son and heir . 
H. C. NOTE BY GEORGE CURTIS , Esq . 
They have cut themselves off from old England and from their homes and their relations for ever , and perhaps , under the circumstances , they were right and wise to do so . 
He is always spoken of as 'Alphonse' , and there are so many Alphonses . 
The letters which my brother Henry says he is sending with the packet of manuscript have never arrived , so I presume that they are lost or destroyed . 
GEORGE CURTIS AUTHORITIES A novelist is not usually asked , like a historian , for his 'Quellen' . 
It is suggested to me that this book is The Cruise of the Falcon , with which work I am personally unacquainted . 
But if I remember right , the crabs in the book when irritated projected their eyes quite out of their heads . 
There is an underground river in 'Peter Wilkins' , but at the time of writing the foregoing pages I had not read that quaint but entertaining work . 
It has been pointed out to me that there exists a similarity between the scene of Umslopogaas frightening Alphonse with his axe and a scene in Far from the Madding Crowd . 
I regret this coincidence , and believe that the talented author of that work will not be inclined to accuse me of literary immorality on its account . 
