The Altar of the Dead by Henry James . 
Scanned and proofed by David Price email ccx coventry . 
Celebrations and suppressions were equally painful to him , and but one of the former found a place in his life . 
He had kept each year in his own fashion the date of Mary Antrim's death . 
It would be more to the point perhaps to say that this occasion kept HIM it kept him at least effectually from doing anything else . 
It took hold of him again and again with a hand of which time had softened but never loosened the touch . 
He waked to his feast of memory as consciously as he would have waked to his marriage morn . 
Marriage had had of old but too little to say to the matter for the girl who was to have been his bride there had been no bridal embrace . 
He had not been a man of numerous passions , and even in all these years no sense had grown stronger with him than the sense of being bereft . 
He had needed no priest and no altar to make him for ever widowed . 
He had done many things in the world he had done almost all but one he had never , never forgotten . 
She was most absent of all on the recurrent December day that his tenacity set apart . 
He had no arranged observance of it , but his nerves made it all their own . 
They drove him forth without mercy , and the goal of his pilgrimage was far . 
She had been buried in a London suburb , a part then of Nature's breast , but which he had seen lose one after another every feature of freshness . 
It was in truth during the moments he stood there that his eyes beheld the place least . 
They looked at another image , they opened to another light . 
Was it a credible future ? Was it an incredible past ? Whatever the answer it was an immense escape from the actual . 
It's true that if there weren't other dates than this there were other memories and by the time George Stransom was fifty five such memories had greatly multiplied . 
There were other ghosts in his life than the ghost of Mary Antrim . 
He had formed little by little the habit of numbering his Dead it had come to him early in life that there was something one had to do for them . 
They were there in their simplified intensified essence , their conscious absence and expressive patience , as personally there as if they had only been stricken dumb . 
They had no organised service , no reserved place , no honour , no shelter , no safety . 
Even ungenerous people provided for the living , but even those who were called most generous did nothing for the others . 
Every man HAD his own , and every man had , to meet this charity , the ample resources of the soul . 
He spared them the moments , he organised the charity . 
Gradually this question was straightened out for him it became clear to him that the religion instilled by his earliest consciousness had been simply the religion of the Dead . 
It suited his inclination , it satisfied his spirit , it gave employment to his piety . 
He had no imagination about these things but that they were accessible to any one who should feel the need of them . 
The poorest could build such temples of the spirit could make them blaze with candles and smoke with incense , make them flush with pictures and flowers . 
The cost , in the common phrase , of keeping them up fell wholly on the generous heart . 
HE had this year , on the eve of his anniversary , as happened , an emotion not unconnected with that range of feeling . 
Next him was a mumbling old woman , and beyond the old woman a gentleman with a lady on his arm . 
It was from him , from Paul Creston , the voice had proceeded he was talking with the lady of some precious object in the window . 
It lasted but the instant , only that space sufficed for the flash of a wild question . 
That son of affliction wasn't in mourning now he detached his arm from his companion's to grasp the hand of the older friend . 
He coloured as well as smiled in the strong light of the shop when Stransom raised a tentative hat to the lady . 
Stransom had just time to see she was pretty before he found himself gaping at a fact more portentous . 
My dear fellow , let me make you acquainted with my wife . 
They stood there and laughed and talked Stransom had instantly whisked the shock out of the way , to keep it for private consumption . 
He felt himself grimace , he heard himself exaggerate the proper , but was conscious of turning not a little faint . 
That new woman , that hired performer , Mrs. Creston ? Mrs. Creston had been more living for him than any woman but one . 
This lady had a face that shone as publicly as the jeweller's window , and in the happy candour with which she wore her monstrous character was an effect of gross immodesty . 
The character of Paul Creston's wife thus attributed to her was monstrous for reasons Stransom could judge his friend to know perfectly that he knew . 
The happy pair had just arrived from America , and Stransom hadn't needed to be told this to guess the nationality of the lady . 
Somehow it deepened the foolish air that her husband's confused cordiality was unable to conceal . 
Stransom recalled that he had heard of poor Creston's having , while his bereavement was still fresh , crossed the sea for what people in such predicaments call a little change . 
They were going into the shop , Mrs. Creston said , and she begged Mr. Stransom to come with them and help to decide . 
He felt quite determined , as he walked away , never in his life to go near her . 
She was perhaps a human being , but Creston oughtn't to have shown her without precautions , oughtn't indeed to have shown her at all . 
His precautions should have been those of a forger or a murderer , and the people at home would never have mentioned extradition . 
This was a wife for foreign service or purely external use a decent consideration would have spared her the injury of comparisons . 
HE could spend an evening with Kate Creston , if the man to whom she had given everything couldn't . 
He had known her twenty years , and she was the only woman for whom he might perhaps have been unfaithful . 
She was all cleverness and sympathy and charm her house had been the very easiest in all the world and her friendship the very firmest . 
Without accidents he had loved her , without accidents every one had loved her she had made the passions about her as regular as the moon makes the tides . 
It was to him her sentient spirit had turned , knowing it to be of her he would think . 
They had looks that survived had them as great poets had quoted lines . 
Before he went to bed he took it up , and this time , at the top of a paragraph , he was caught by five words that made him start . 
He had seen him after their rupture , but hadn't now seen him for years . 
Standing there before the fire he turned cold as he read what had befallen him . 
It had made the difference for him that friendship too was all over , but it had only made just that one . 
The shock of interests had been private , intensely so but the action taken by Hague had been in the face of men . 
To day it all seemed to have occurred merely to the end that George Stransom should think of him as Hague and measure exactly how much he himself could resemble a stone . 
He went cold , suddenly and horribly cold , to bed . 
THE next day , in the afternoon , in the great grey suburb , he knew his long walk had tired him . 
In the dreadful cemetery alone he had been on his feet an hour . 
Instinctively , coming back , they had taken him a devious course , and it was a desert in which no circling cabman hovered over possible prey . 
By day there was nothing , but by night there were lamps , and George Stransom was in a mood that made lamps good in themselves . 
It wasn't that they could show him anything , it was only that they could burn clear . 
He stopped and looked up , recognising the place as a church . 
The thought quickly came to him that since he was tired he might rest there so that after a moment he had in turn pushed up the leathern curtain and gone in . 
It was a temple of the old persuasion , and there had evidently been a function perhaps a service for the dead the high altar was still a blaze of candles . 
This was an exhibition he always liked , and he dropped into a seat with relief . 
More than it had ever yet come home to him it struck him as good there should be churches . 
Was it only the savour of the incense or was it something of larger intention ? He had at any rate quitted the great grey suburb and come nearer to the warm centre . 
He wished he could sink , like her , to the very bottom , be as motionless , as rapt in prostration . 
After a few moments he shifted his seat it was almost indelicate to be so aware of her . 
But Stransom subsequently quite lost himself , floating away on the sea of light . 
That shrine had begun in vague likeness to church pomps , but the echo had ended by growing more distinct than the sound . 
The sound now rang out , the type blazed at him with all its fires and with a mystery of radiance in which endless meanings could glow . 
The thing became as he sat there his appropriate altar and each starry candle an appropriate vow . 
He numbered them , named them , grouped them it was the silent roll call of his Dead . 
He wandered softly through the aisles , pausing in the different chapels , all save one applied to a special devotion . 
It was in this clear recess , lampless and unapplied , that he stood longest the length of time it took him fully to grasp the conception of gilding it with his bounty . 
Tended sacredly all the year , with the sanctifying church round it , it would always be ready for his offices . 
There would be difficulties , but from the first they presented themselves only as difficulties surmounted . 
Even for a person so little affiliated the thing would be a matter of arrangement . 
She passed him quickly , and he had only a glimpse of her pale face and her unconscious , almost sightless eyes . 
For that instant she looked faded and handsome . 
This was the origin of the rites more public , yet certainly esoteric , that he at last found himself able to establish . 
It took a long time , it took a year , and both the process and the result would have been for any who knew a vivid picture of his good faith . 
Stransom had of course at an early stage of his enquiry been referred to the Bishop , and the Bishop had been delightfully human , the Bishop had been almost amused . 
Success was within sight , at any rate from the moment the attitude of those whom it concerned became liberal in response to liberality . 
When the intention had taken complete effect the enjoyment became even greater than he had ventured to hope . 
He liked to think of this effect when far from it , liked to convince himself of it yet again when near . 
Even a loaded life might be easier when one had added a new necessity to it . 
Whoever bent a knee on the carpet he had laid down appeared to him to act in the spirit of his intention . 
Each of his lights had a name for him , and from time to time a new light was kindled . 
This was what he had fundamentally agreed for , that there should always be room for them all . 
To the treatment of time the malady of life begins at a given moment to succumb and these were doubtless the hours at which that truth most came home to him . 
The day was written for him there on which he had first become acquainted with death , and the successive phases of the acquaintance were marked each with a flame . 
The flames were gathering thick at present , for Stransom had entered that dark defile of our earthly descent in which some one dies every day . 
It was only yesterday that Kate Creston had flashed out her white fire yet already there were younger stars ablaze on the tips of the tapers . 
Various persons in whom his interest had not been intense drew closer to him by entering this company . 
He went over it , head by head , till he felt like the shepherd of a huddled flock , with all a shepherd's vision of differences imperceptible . 
He knew his candles apart , up to the colour of the flame , and would still have known them had their positions all been changed . 
In regard to those from whom one was separated by the long curves of the globe such a connexion could only be an improvement it brought them instantly within reach . 
There was a strange sanctification in death , but some characters were more sanctified by being forgotten than by being remembered . 
The greatest blank in the shining page was the memory of Acton Hague , of which he inveterately tried to rid himself . 
For Acton Hague no flame could ever rise on any altar of his . 
EVERY year , the day he walked back from the great graveyard , he went to church as he had done the day his idea was born . 
Given the time that had passed , his recollection of her was fresh enough to make him wonder . 
She used his altar for her own purpose he could only hope that sad and solitary as she always struck him , she used it for her own Dead . 
They worshipped side by side so often that there were moments when he wished he might be sure , so straight did their prospect stretch away of growing old together in their rites . 
She was younger than he , but she looked as if her Dead were at least as numerous as his candles . 
She had no colour , no sound , no fault , and another of the things about which he had made up his mind was that she had no fortune . 
Always black robed , she must have had a succession of sorrows . 
People weren't poor , after all , whom so many losses could overtake they were positively rich when they had had so much to give up . 
There were moreover friends who reminded him of this and side by side with whom he found himself sitting out concerts . 
On one of these winter afternoons , in St . 
She smiled as she said Oh yes , I recognise you yet in spite of this admission of long acquaintance it was the first he had seen of her smile . 
The effect of it was suddenly to contribute more to that acquaintance than all the previous meetings had done . 
He hadn't taken in , he said to himself , that she was so pretty . 
Later , that evening it was while he rolled along in a hansom on his way to dine out he added that he hadn't taken in that she was so interesting . 
His work in fact was blurred a little all that day by the sense of what had now passed between them . 
It wasn't much , but it had just made the difference . 
This omission struck him now as natural and then again as perverse . 
She mightn't in the least have allowed his warrant for speaking to her , and yet if she hadn't he would have judged her an underbred woman . 
His success , it was true , had been qualified by her quick escape , so that there grew up in him an absurd desire to put it to some better test . 
Save in so far as some other poor chance might help him , such a test could be only to meet her afresh at church . 
Left to himself he would have gone to church the very next afternoon , just for the curiosity of seeing if he should find her there . 
But he wasn't left to himself , a fact he discovered quite at the last , after he had virtually made up his mind to go . 
The influence that kept him away really revealed to him how little to himself his Dead EVER left him . 
He went only for THEM for nothing else in the world . 
It was absurd to weave a tangle about a matter so simple as a custom of devotion that might with ease have been daily or hourly yet the tangle got itself woven . 
He was sorry , he was disappointed it was as if a long happy spell had been broken and he had lost a familiar security . 
At the last , however , he asked himself if he was to stay away for ever from the fear of this muddle about motives . 
This indifference didn't prevent his at once noting that for the only time since he had first seen her she wasn't on the spot . 
He had now no scruple about giving her time to arrive , but she didn't arrive , and when he went away still missing her he was profanely and consentingly sorry . 
If her absence made the tangle more intricate , that was all her own doing . 
Three times in three months he had gone to church without finding her , and he felt he hadn't needed these occasions to show him his suspense had dropped . 
This happy advantage now served him anew , enabling him when she finally met his eyes it was after a fourth trial to predetermine quite fixedly his awaiting her retreat . 
He joined her in the street as soon as she had moved , asking her if he might accompany her a certain distance . 
With her placid permission he went as far as a house in the neighbourhood at which she had business she let him know it was not where she lived . 
She wasn't , the mourning niece , in her first youth , and her vanished freshness had left something behind that , for Stransom , represented the proof it had been tragically sacrificed . 
Whatever she gave him the assurance of she gave without references . 
She might have been a divorced duchess she might have been an old maid who taught the harp . 
CHAPTER V. THEY fell at last into the way of walking together almost every time they met , though for a long time still they never met but at church . 
He couldn't ask her to come and see him , and as if she hadn't a proper place to receive him she never invited her friend . 
As much as himself she knew the world of London , but from an undiscussed instinct of privacy they haunted the region not mapped on the social chart . 
On the return she always made him leave her at the same corner . 
These things made their whole relation so impersonal that they hadn't the rules or reasons people found in ordinary friendships . 
They didn't care for the things it was supposed necessary to care for in the intercourse of the world . 
They ended one day they never knew which of them expressed it first by throwing out the idea that they didn't care for each other . 
Over this idea they grew quite intimate they rallied to it in a way that marked a fresh start in their confidence . 
They felt it was coming very near to utter their thought at all . 
They never knew at least Stransom never knew how they had learned to be sure about each other . 
If it had been with each a question of what the other was there for , the certitude had come in some fine way of its own . 
If the following was for each but a following of one it had proved in the event sufficient . 
Her debt , however , of course was much greater than his , because while she had only given him a worshipper he had given her a splendid temple . 
He had wondered before at the coincidence of their losses , especially as from time to time a new candle was set up . 
On some occasion some accident led him to express this curiosity , and she answered as if in surprise that he hadn't already understood . 
Oh for me , you know , the more there are the better there could never be too many . 
I should like hundreds and hundreds I should like thousands I should like a great mountain of light . 
Then of course in a flash he understood . 
Your Dead are only One ? She hung back at this as never yet . 
Only One , she answered , colouring as if now he knew her guarded secret . 
It really made him feel he knew less than before , so difficult was it for him to reconstitute a life in which a single experience had so belittled all others . 
His own life , round its central hollow , had been packed close enough . 
After this she appeared to have regretted her confession , though at the moment she spoke there had been pride in her very embarrassment . 
He knew she couldn't one's relation to what one had loved and hated had been a relation too distinct from the relations of others . 
But this didn't affect the fact that they were growing old together in their piety . 
The most that happened was that his worship became paramount . 
Friend by friend dropped away till at last there were more emblems on his altar than houses left him to enter . 
She was more than any other the friend who remained , but she was unknown to all the rest . 
Once when she had discovered , as they called it , a new star , she used the expression that the chapel at last was full . 
It will be the tallest candle of all . 
Her mild wonder rested on him . 
What candle do you mean ? I mean , dear lady , my own . 
He had learned after a long time that she earned money by her pen , writing under a pseudonym she never disclosed in magazines he never saw . 
She knew too well what he couldn't read and what she couldn't write , and she taught him to cultivate indifference with a success that did much for their good relations . 
Lost , with her decayed relative , in her dim suburban world , she came to the surface for him in distant places . 
She was really the priestess of his altar , and whenever he quitted England he committed it to her keeping . 
She proved to him afresh that women have more of the spirit of religion than men he felt his fidelity pale and faint in comparison with hers . 
He had a great plan for that , which of course he told her too , a bequest of money to keep it up in undiminished state . 
Of the administration of this fund he would appoint her superintendent , and if the spirit should move her she might kindle a taper even for him . 
And who will kindle one even for me ? she then seriously asked . 
SHE was always in mourning , yet the day he came back from the longest absence he had yet made her appearance immediately told him she had lately had a bereavement . 
They met on this occasion as she was leaving the church , so that postponing his own entrance he instantly offered to turn round and walk away with her . 
She considered , then she said Go in now , but come and see me in an hour . 
Often , however , as he had gone to the beginning he had never gone beyond . 
It was an event , somehow and in all their long acquaintance there had never been an event . 
This one grew larger when , five minutes later , in the faint elegance of her little drawing room , she quavered out a greeting that showed the measure she took of it . 
It was true that after she had said You can always come now , you know , the thing he was there for seemed already to have happened . 
He asked her if it was the death of her aunt that made the difference to which she replied She never knew I knew you . 
I wished her not to . 
The beautiful clearness of her candour her faded beauty was like a summer twilight disconnected the words from any image of deceit . 
They might have struck him as the record of a deep dissimulation but she had always given him a sense of noble reasons . 
Yes , I shall have another . 
She was very kind to me . 
It's that that's the difference . 
It rather chilled him , for they had been happy together as they were . 
This was a joy to Stransom , because it had hitherto been equally impossible for him either to offer her presents or contentedly to stay his hand . 
It was too ugly to be at her side that way , abounding himself and yet not able to overflow a demonstration that would have been signally a false note . 
Even her better situation too seemed only to draw out in a sense the loneliness of her future . 
When they had sat a while in the pale parlour she got up This isn't my room let us go into mine . 
They had only to cross the narrow hall , as he found , to pass quite into another air . 
When she had closed the door of the second room , as she called it , he felt at last in real possession of her . 
The place had the flush of life it was expressive its dark red walls were articulate with memories and relics . 
These were simple things photographs and water colours , scraps of writing framed and ghosts of flowers embalmed but a moment sufficed to show him they had a common meaning . 
It was here she had lived and worked , and she had already told him she would make no change of scene . 
He read the reference in the objects about her the general one to places and times but after a minute he distinguished among them a small portrait of a gentleman . 
At a distance and without their glasses his eyes were only so caught by it as to feel a vague curiosity . 
Presently this impulse carried him nearer , and in another moment he was staring at the picture in stupefaction and with the sense that some sound had broken from him . 
He was further conscious that he showed his companion a white face when he turned round on her gasping Acton Hague ! She matched his great wonder . 
Did you know him ? He was the friend of all my youth of my early manhood . 
It was all for Acton Hague that she had kneeled every day at his altar . 
How extraordinary , he presently exclaimed , that we should never have known ! She gave a wan smile which seemed to Stransom stranger even than the fact itself . 
I never , never spoke of him . 
He looked again about the room . 
I never spoke of him , Stransom added in a moment , because he did me years ago an unforgettable wrong . 
She was silent , and with the full effect of his presence all about them it almost startled her guest to hear no protest escape her . 
She accepted his words , he turned his eyes to her again to see in what manner she accepted them . 
It was with rising tears and a rare sweetness in the movement of putting out her hand to take his own . 
Then turning round on him with her pale gaiety recovered , I've forgiven him ! she declared . 
I know what you've done , said Stransom I know what you've done for years . 
For a moment they looked at each other through it all with their long community of service in their eyes . 
He got up and How you must have loved him ! he cried . 
They can love even where they've suffered . 
Women are wonderful , said Stransom . 
But I assure you I've forgiven him too . 
If I had known of anything so strange I wouldn't have brought you here . 
So that we might have gone on in our ignorance to the last ? What do you call the last ? she asked , smiling still . 
At this he could smile back at her . 
You'll see when it comes . 
This is better perhaps but as we were it was good . 
He put her the question . 
But he's not one of mine . 
Mine are only the Dead who died possessed of me . 
They're mine in death because they were mine in life . 
HE was yours in life then , even if for a while he ceased to be . 
If you forgave him you went back to him . 
Those whom we've once loved Are those who can hurt us most , Stransom broke in . 
Ah it's not true you've NOT forgiven him ! she wailed with a passion that startled him . 
He looked at her as never yet . 
What was it he did to you ? Everything ! Then abruptly she put out her hand in farewell . 
He turned as cold as he had turned that night he read the man's death . 
But what's changed for you ? She waited in all the sharpness of a trouble that for the first time since he had known her made her splendidly stern . 
How can you understand now when you didn't understand before ? I didn't understand before only because I didn't know . 
Now that I know , I see what I've been living with for years , Stransom went on very gently . 
She looked at him with a larger allowance , doing this gentleness justice . 
You set up your altar , and when I wanted one most I found it magnificently ready . 
I used it with the gratitude I've always shown you , for I knew it from of old to be dedicated to Death . 
I told you long ago that my Dead weren't many . 
That , as you say , I perfectly knew , and I don't see why your intention shouldn't still sustain you . 
That's because you're generous you can imagine and think . 
But the spell is broken . 
It seemed to poor Stransom , in spite of his resistance , that it really was , and the prospect stretched grey and void before him . 
All he could say , however , was I hope you'll try before you give up . 
If I had known you had ever known him I should have taken for granted he had his candle , she presently answered . 
What's changed , as you say , is that on making the discovery I find he never has had it . 
That makes MY attitude she paused as thinking how to express it , then said simply all wrong . 
Come once again , he pleaded . 
Will you give him his candle ? she asked . 
He waited , but only because it would sound ungracious not because of a doubt of his feeling . 
I can't do that ! he declared at last . 
And she gave him her hand again . 
Yet he lingered lingered to see if she had no compromise to express , no attenuation to propose . 
But he only met her great lamenting eyes , in which indeed he read that she was as sorry for him as for any one else . 
This made him say At least , in any case , I may see you here . 
Oh yes , come if you like . 
But I don't think it will do . 
He looked round the room once more , knowing how little he was sure it would do . 
He felt also stricken and more and more cold , and his chill was like an ague in which he had to make an effort not to shake . 
Then he made doleful reply I must try on my side if you can't try on yours . 
She came out with him to the hall and into the doorway , and here he put her the question he held he could least answer from his own wit . 
Why have you never let me come before ? Because my aunt would have seen you , and I should have had to tell her how I came to know you . 
And what would have been the objection to that ? It would have entailed other explanations there would at any rate have been that danger . 
Surely she knew you went every day to church , Stransom objected . 
She didn't know what I went for . 
Of me then she never even heard ? You'll think I was deceitful . 
But I didn't need to be ! He was now on the lower door step , and his hostess held the door half closed behind him . 
Through what remained of the opening he saw her framed face . 
He made a supreme appeal . 
What DID he do to you ? It would have come out SHE would have told you . 
That fear at my heart that was my reason ! And she closed the door , shutting him out . 
HE had ruthlessly abandoned her that of course was what he had done . 
Stransom made it all out in solitude , at leisure , fitting the unmatched pieces gradually together and dealing one by one with a hundred obscure points . 
There were passages it was quite conceivable that even in moments of the tenderest expansion he should have withheld . 
A man in her place would have looked up the past would even have consulted old newspapers . 
Such as she sat there to day she was ineffaceably stamped with him . 
Beneficent , blameless as Stransom held her , he couldn't rid himself of the sense that he had been , as who should say , swindled . 
She had imposed upon him hugely , though she had known it as little as he . 
All this later past came back to him as a time grotesquely misspent . 
Such at least were his first reflexions after a while he found himself more divided and only , as the end of it , more troubled . 
He was sure this rare creature wouldn't have got off with the least . 
He was awestruck at the thought of such a surrender such a prostration . 
Moulded indeed she had been by powerful hands , to have converted her injury into an exaltation so sublime . 
The fellow had only had to die for everything that was ugly in him to be washed out in a torrent . 
It was vain to try to guess what had taken place , but nothing could be clearer than that she had ended by accusing herself . 
She absolved him at every point , she adored her very wounds . 
The passion by which he had profited had rushed back after its ebb , and now the tide of tenderness , arrested for ever at flood , was too deep even to fathom . 
Stransom sincerely considered that he had forgiven him but how little he had achieved the miracle that she had achieved ! His forgiveness was silence , but hers was mere unuttered sound . 
The light she had demanded for his altar would have broken his silence with a blare whereas all the lights in the church were for her too great a hush . 
She had been right about the difference she had spoken the truth about the change Stransom was soon to know himself as perversely but sharply jealous . 
HIS tide had ebbed , not flowed if he had forgiven Acton Hague , that forgiveness was a motive with a broken spring . 
He had never thought of himself as hard , but an exorbitant article might easily render him so . 
He moved round and round this one , but only in widening circles the more he looked at it the less acceptable it seemed . 
At the same time he had no illusion about the effect of his refusal he perfectly saw how it would make for a rupture . 
He left her alone a week , but when at last he again called this conviction was cruelly confirmed . 
In the interval he had kept away from the church , and he needed no fresh assurance from her to know she hadn't entered it . 
The change was complete enough it had broken up her life . 
Indeed it had broken up his , for all the fires of his shrine seemed to him suddenly to have been quenched . 
Neither did he know with how large a confidence he had counted on the final service that had now failed the mortal deception was that in this abandonment the whole future gave way . 
These days of her absence proved to him of what she was capable all the more that he never dreamed she was vindictive or even resentful . 
It was not in anger she had forsaken him it was in simple submission to hard reality , to the stern logic of life . 
This came home to him when he sat with her again in the room in which her late aunt's conversation lingered like the tone of a cracked piano . 
She tried to make him forget how much they were estranged , but in the very presence of what they had given up it was impossible not to be sorry for her . 
He had taken from her so much more than she had taken from him . 
It had doubtless been happiness enough for them to go on together so long . 
She was gentle , grateful , resigned but this was only the form of a deep immoveability . 
He would have hated to plunge again into that well of reminders , but he enjoyed quite as little the vacant alternative . 
After he had been with her three or four times it struck him that to have come at last into her house had had the horrid effect of diminishing their intimacy . 
He had known her better , had liked her in greater freedom , when they merely walked together or kneeled together . 
Now they only pretended before they had been nobly sincere . 
They had either strolled away as they came out or gone in to rest on the return . 
Stransom , besides , now faltered he couldn't walk as of old . 
The omission made everything false it was a dire mutilation of their lives . 
Our friend was frank and monotonous , making no mystery of his remonstrance and no secret of his predicament . 
For him indeed was no comfort even in complaint , since every allusion to what had befallen them but made the author of their trouble more present . 
Acton Hague was between them that was the essence of the matter , and never so much between them as when they were face to face . 
Then Stransom , while still wanting to banish him , had the strangest sense of striving for an ease that would involve having accepted him . 
Deeply disconcerted by what he knew , he was still worse tormented by really not knowing . 
He challenged himself , denounced himself , asked himself if he were in love with her that he should care so much what adventures she had had . 
He had never for a moment allowed he was in love with her therefore nothing could have surprised him more than to discover he was jealous . 
She told nothing , she judged nothing she accepted everything but the possibility of her return to the old symbols . 
Stransom divined that for her too they had been vividly individual , had stood for particular hours or particular attributes particular links in her chain . 
To provide for him on the very ground of having discovered another of his turpitudes was not to pity but to glorify him . 
The more Stransom thought the more he made out that whatever this relation of Hague's it could only have been a deception more or less finely practised . 
In one way or another this creature had been coldly sacrificed . 
That was why at the last as well as the first he must still leave him out and out . 
AND yet this was no solution , especially after he had talked again to his friend of all it had been his plan she should finally do for him . 
But even his faculty of analysis left the irritation standing , and this irritation proved perhaps the greatest misfortune that had ever overtaken him . 
There had been nothing yet that made him so much want to give up . 
He had of course by this time well reached the age of renouncement but it had not hitherto been vivid to him that it was time to give up everything . 
Practically , at the end of six months , he had renounced the friendship once so charming and comforting . 
His privation had two faces , and the face it had turned to him on the occasion of his last attempt to cultivate that friendship was the one he could look at least . 
This was the privation he inflicted the other was the privation he bore . 
The conditions she never phrased he used to murmur to himself in solitude One more , one more only just one . 
Certainly he was going down he often felt it when he caught himself , over his work , staring at vacancy and giving voice to that inanity . 
There was proof enough besides in his being so weak and so ill . 
His irritation took the form of melancholy , and his melancholy that of the conviction that his health had quite failed . 
His altar moreover had ceased to exist his chapel , in his dreams , was a great dark cavern . 
All the lights had gone out all his Dead had died again . 
Then he understood that it was essentially in his own soul the revival had taken place , and that in the air of this soul they were now unable to breathe . 
The candles might mechanically burn , but each of them had lost its lustre . 
The church had become a void it was his presence , her presence , their common presence , that had made the indispensable medium . 
If anything was wrong everything was her silence spoiled the tune . 
It was a relief to him , after a while , as he sat there , to feel they had still a virtue . 
None the less he returned yet again , returned several times , and finally , during six months , haunted the place with a renewal of frequency and a strain of impatience . 
In winter the church was unwarmed and exposure to cold forbidden him , but the glow of his shrine was an influence in which he could almost bask . 
He sat and wondered to what he had reduced his absent associate and what she now did with the hours of her absence . 
There were other churches , there were other altars , there were other candles in one way or another her piety would still operate he couldn't absolutely have deprived her of her rites . 
It was in the quiet sense of having saved his souls that his deep strange instinct rejoiced . 
By this time he had survived all his friends the last straight flame was three years old , there was no one to add to the list . 
Over and over he called his roll , and it appeared to him compact and complete . 
The refrain had grown old to them , that plea for just one more . 
There came a day when , for simple exhaustion , if symmetry should demand just one he was ready so far to meet symmetry . 
Symmetry was harmony , and the idea of harmony began to haunt him he said to himself that harmony was of course everything . 
He took , in fancy , his composition to pieces , redistributing it into other lines , making other juxtapositions and contrasts . 
He shifted this and that candle , he made the spaces different , he effaced the disfigurement of a possible gap . 
Finally , in this way , he arrived at a conception of the total , the ideal , which left a clear opportunity for just another figure . 
Just one more to round it off just one more , just one , continued to hum in his head . 
There was a strange confusion in the thought , for he felt the day to be near when he too should be one of the Others . 
He might perpetuate it on some other pretext , but his special meaning would have dropped . 
This meaning was to have lasted with the life of the one other person who understood it . 
In March he had an illness during which he spent a fortnight in bed , and when he revived a little he was told of two things that had happened . 
She was not at home but this gave him the opportunity , before his strength should fall again , to take his way to the church . 
He entered it alone he had declined , in a happy manner he possessed of being able to decline effectively , the company of his servant or of a nurse . 
The nameless lady was the clandestine connexion a fact nothing could have made clearer than his indecent haste to rejoin her . 
He sank on his knees before his altar while his head fell over on his hands . 
His weakness , his life's weariness overtook him . 
It seemed to him he had come for the great surrender . 
At first he asked himself how he should get away then , with the failing belief in the power , the very desire to move gradually left him . 
He had given himself to his Dead , and it was good this time his Dead would keep him . 
He couldn't rise from his knees he believed he should never rise again all he could do was to lift his face and fix his eyes on his lights . 
They looked unusually , strangely splendid , but the one that always drew him most had an unprecedented lustre . 
It was the central voice of the choir , the glowing heart of the brightness , and on this occasion it seemed to expand , to spread great wings of flame . 
She smiled at him from the glory of heaven she brought the glory down with her to take him . 
He bowed his head in submission and at the same moment another wave rolled over him . 
It suddenly made him contrast that very rapture with the bliss he had refused to another . 
This breath of the passion immortal was all that other had asked the descent of Mary Antrim opened his spirit with a great compunctious throb for the descent of Acton Hague . 
It was as if Stransom had read what her eyes said to him . 
After a moment he looked round in a despair that made him feel as if the source of life were ebbing . 
The church had been empty he was alone but he wanted to have something done , to make a last appeal . 
This idea gave him strength for an effort he rose to his feet with a movement that made him turn , supporting himself by the back of a bench . 
Behind him was a prostrate figure , a figure he had seen before a woman in deep mourning , bowed in grief or in prayer . 
He had seen her in other days the first time of his entrance there , and he now slightly wavered , looking at her again till she seemed aware he had noticed her . 
She raised her head and met his eyes the partner of his long worship had come back . 
She looked across at him an instant with a face wondering and scared he saw he had made her afraid . 
Then quickly rising she came straight to him with both hands out . 
Then you COULD come ? God sent you ! he murmured with a happy smile . 
You're very ill you shouldn't be here , she urged in anxious reply . 
God sent me too , I think . 
I was ill when I came , but the sight of you does wonders . 
He held her hands , which steadied and quickened him . 
I've something to tell you . 
Don't tell me ! she tenderly pleaded let me tell you . 
This afternoon , by a miracle , the sweetest of miracles , the sense of our difference left me . 
I was out I was near , thinking , wandering alone , when , on the spot , something changed in my heart . 
It's my confession there it is . 
To come back , to come back on the instant the idea gave me wings . 
It was as if I suddenly saw something as if it all became possible . 
I could come for what you yourself came for that was enough . 
It's not for my own that's over . 
But I'm here for THEM . 
And breathless , infinitely relieved by her low precipitate explanation , she looked with eyes that reflected all its splendour at the magnificence of their altar . 
They're here for you , Stransom said , they're present to night as they've never been . 
They speak for you don't you see ? in a passion of light they sing out like a choir of angels . 
Don't you hear what they say ? they offer the very thing you asked of me . 
He let himself go , resting on her he dropped upon the bench and she fell on her knees beside him , his own arm round her shoulder . 
So he remained an instant , staring up at his shrine . 
They say there's a gap in the array they say it's not full , complete . 
Just one more , he went on , softly isn't that what you wanted ? Yes , one more , one more . 
Ah no more no more ! she wailed , as with a quick new horror of it , under her breath . 
Yes , one more , he repeated , simply just one ! And with this his head dropped on her shoulder she felt that in his weakness he had fainted . 
But alone with him in the dusky church a great dread was on her of what might still happen , for his face had the whiteness of death . 
