The scene of my disaster was much as I had left it . 
The baccarat counters still strewed the table , with the empty glasses and the loaded ash trays . 
A window had been opened to let the smoke out , and was letting in the fog instead . 
Raffles himself had merely discarded his dining jacket for one of his innumerable blazers . 
Yet he arched his eyebrows as though I had dragged him from his bed . 
Forgotten something ? said he , when he saw me on his mat . 
No , said I , pushing past him without ceremony . 
And I led the way into his room with an impudence amazing to myself . 
Not come back for your revenge , have you ? Because I'm afraid I can't give it to you single handed . 
I was sorry myself that the others We were face to face by his fireside , and I cut him short . 
Raffles , said I , you may well be surprised at my coming back in this way and at this hour . 
I was never in your rooms before to night . 
But I fagged for you at school , and you said you remembered me . 
Certainly , my dear man , said he as many minutes as you like . 
Have a Sullivan and sit down . 
And he handed me his silver cigarette case . 
No , said I , finding a full voice as I shook my head no , I won't smoke , and I won't sit down , thank you . 
Nor will you ask me to do either when you've heard what I have to say . 
Really ? said he , lighting his own cigarette with one clear blue eye upon me . 
How do you know ? Because you'll probably show me the door , I cried bitterly and you will be justified in doing it ! But it's no use beating about the bush . 
You know I dropped over two hundred just now ? He nodded . 
I hadn't the money in my pocket . 
But I had my check book , and I wrote each of you a check at that desk . 
Well ? Not one of them was worth the paper it was written on , Raffles . 
I am overdrawn already at my bank ! Surely only for the moment ? No. I have spent everything . 
But somebody told me you were so well off . 
I heard you had come in for money ? So I did . 
It has been my curse now it's all gone every penny ! Yes , I've been a fool there never was nor will be such a fool as I've been . 
Isn't this enough for you ? Why don't you turn me out ? He was walking up and down with a very long face instead . 
Couldn't your people do anything ? he asked at length . 
Thank God , I cried , I have no people ! I was an only child . 
I came in for everything there was . 
My one comfort is that they're gone , and will never know . 
I cast myself into a chair and hid my face . 
Raffles continued to pace the rich carpet that was of a piece with everything else in his rooms . 
There was no variation in his soft and even footfalls . 
You used to be a literary little cuss , he said at length didn't you edit the mag . 
before you left ? Anyway I recollect fagging you to do my verses and literature of all sorts is the very thing nowadays any fool can make a living at it . 
Any fool couldn't write off my debts , said I. Then you have a flat somewhere ? he went on . 
Yes , in Mount Street . 
Well , what about the furniture ? I laughed aloud in my misery . 
But in his handsome , unmoved face I read my fate and death warrant and with every breath I cursed my folly and my cowardice in coming to him at all . 
There was as little of mercy as of sympathy in that curling nostril , that rigid jaw , that cold blue eye which never glanced my way . 
I caught up my hat . 
I blundered to my feet . 
I would have gone without a word but Raffles stood between me and the door . 
Where are you going ? said he . 
That's my business , I replied . 
I won't trouble YOU any more . 
Then how am I to help you ? I didn't ask your help . 
Then why come to me ? Why , indeed ! I echoed . 
Will you let me pass ? Not until you tell me where you are going and what you mean to do . 
Can't you guess ? I cried . 
And for many seconds we stood staring in each other's eyes . 
Have you got the pluck ? said he , breaking the spell in a tone so cynical that it brought my last drop of blood to the boil . 
You shall see , said I , as I stepped back and whipped the pistol from my overcoat pocket . 
Now , will you let me pass or shall I do it here ? The barrel touched my temple , and my thumb the trigger . 
It was the look that came instead which held my hand . 
Neither fear nor horror were in it only wonder , admiration , and such a measure of pleased expectancy as caused me after all to pocket my revolver with an oath . 
You devil ! I said . 
I believe you wanted me to do it ! Not quite , was the reply , made with a little start , and a change of color that came too late . 
To tell you the truth , though , I half thought you meant it , and I was never more fascinated in my life . 
I never dreamt you had such stuff in you , Bunny ! No , I'm hanged if I let you go now . 
And you'd better not try that game again , for you won't catch me stand and look on a second time . 
We must think of some way out of the mess . 
I had no idea you were a chap of that sort ! There , let me have the gun . 
One of his hands fell kindly on my shoulder , while the other slipped into my overcoat pocket , and I suffered him to deprive me of my weapon without a murmur . 
Nor was this simply because Raffles had the subtle power of making himself irresistible at will . 
He was beyond comparison the most masterful man whom I have ever known yet my acquiescence was due to more than the mere subjection of the weaker nature to the stronger . 
The forlorn hope which had brought me to the Albany was turned as by magic into an almost staggering sense of safety . 
God bless you ! I cried . 
I will tell you the truth . 
I DID think you might help me in my extremity , though I well knew that I had no claim upon you . 
Still for the old school's sake the sake of old times I thought you might give me another chance . 
His next words showed me my mistake . 
What a boy it is for jumping to conclusions ! I have my vices , Bunny , but backing and filling is not one of them . 
Sit down , my good fellow , and have a cigarette to soothe your nerves . 
Whiskey ? The worst thing for you here's some coffee that I was brewing when you came in . 
You speak of 'another chance . 
What do you mean ? Another chance at baccarat ? Not if I know it ! You think the luck must turn suppose it didn't ? We should only have made bad worse . 
No , my dear chap , you've plunged enough . 
Do you put yourself in my hands or do you not ? Very well , then you plunge no more , and I undertake not to present my check . 
Unfortunately there are the other men and still more unfortunately , Bunny , I'm as hard up at this moment as you are yourself ! It was my turn to stare at Raffles . 
You hard up ? How am I to sit here and believe that ? Did I refuse to believe it of you ? he returned , smiling . 
I have nothing but my wits to live on absolutely nothing else . 
It was as necessary for me to win some money this evening as it was for you . 
We're in the same boat , Bunny we'd better pull together . 
Together ! I jumped at it . 
I'll do anything in this world for you , Raffles , I said , if you really mean that you won't give me away . 
Think of anything you like , and I'll do it ! I was a desperate man when I came here , and I'm just as desperate now . 
I don't mind what I do if only I can get out of this without a scandal . 
Again I see him , leaning back in one of the luxurious chairs with which his room was furnished . 
I see his indolent , athletic figure his pale , sharp , clean shaven features his curly black hair his strong , unscrupulous mouth . 
And again I feel the clear beam of his wonderful eye , cold and luminous as a star , shining into my brain sifting the very secrets of my heart . 
I wonder if you mean all that ! he said at length . 
You do in your present mood but who can back his mood to last ? Still , there's hope when a chap takes that tone . 
Now I think of it , too , you were a plucky little devil at school you once did me rather a good turn , I recollect . 
Remember it , Bunny ? Well , wait a bit , and perhaps I'll be able to do you a better one . 
Give me time to think . 
Twice he stopped at my chair as though on the point of speaking , but each time he checked himself and resumed his stride in silence . 
Once he threw up the window , which he had shut some time since , and stood for some moments leaning out into the fog which filled the Albany courtyard . 
Meanwhile a clock on the chimney piece struck one , and one again for the half hour , without a word between us . 
Yet I not only kept my chair with patience , but I acquired an incongruous equanimity in that half hour . 
Insensibly I had shifted my burden to the broad shoulders of this splendid friend , and my thoughts wandered with my eyes as the minutes passed . 
The room was the good sized , square one , with the folding doors , the marble mantel piece , and the gloomy , old fashioned distinction peculiar to the Albany . 
It was charmingly furnished and arranged , with the right amount of negligence and the right amount of taste . 
What struck me most , however , was the absence of the usual insignia of a cricketer's den . 
The man might have been a minor poet instead of an athlete of the first water . 
Yet it was whispered in the school that he was in the habit of parading the town at night in loud checks and a false beard . 
It was whispered , and disbelieved . 
Well , one night he was over bold , and within an ace of ignominious expulsion in the hey day of his fame . 
But I cannot pretend to have forgotten it in throwing myself on this man's mercy in my desperation . 
And I was wondering how much of his leniency was owing to the fact that Raffles had not forgotten it either , when he stopped and stood over my chair once more . 
I've been thinking of that night we had the narrow squeak , he began . 
Why do you start ? I was thinking of it too . 
He smiled , as though he had read my thoughts . 
Well , you were the right sort of little beggar then , Bunny you didn't talk and you didn't flinch . 
You asked no questions and you told no tales . 
I wonder if you're like that now ? I don't know , said I , slightly puzzled by his tone . 
I've made such a mess of my own affairs that I trust myself about as little as I'm likely to be trusted by anybody else . 
Yet I never in my life went back on a friend . 
I will say that , otherwise perhaps I mightn't be in such a hole to night . 
We don't alter , Bunny . 
I suppose neither you nor I are really altered since you used to let down that rope and I used to come up it hand over hand . 
You would stick at nothing for a pal what ? At nothing in this world , I was pleased to cry . 
Not even at a crime ? said Raffles , smiling . 
I stopped to think , for his tone had changed , and I felt sure he was chaffing me . 
Yet his eye seemed as much in earnest as ever , and for my part I was in no mood for reservations . 
No , not even at that , I declared name your crime , and I'm your man . 
None the less we must have that money to night by hook or crook . 
To night , Raffles ? The sooner the better . 
Every hour after ten o'clock to morrow morning is an hour of risk . 
Let one of those checks get round to your own bank , and you and it are dishonored together . 
No , we must raise the wind to night and re open your account first thing to morrow . 
And I rather think I know where the wind can be raised . 
At two o'clock in the morning ? Yes . 
But how but where at such an hour ? From a friend of mine here in Bond Street . 
He must be a very intimate friend ! Intimate's not the word . 
I have the run of his place and a latch key all to myself . 
You would knock him up at this hour of the night ? If he's in bed . 
And it's essential that I should go in with you ? Absolutely . 
Then I must but I'm bound to say I don't like the idea , Raffles . 
Do you prefer the alternative ? asked my companion , with a sneer . 
No , hang it , that's unfair ! he cried apologetically in the same breath . 
But it would never do for you to stay outside . 
I tell you what , you shall have a peg before we start just one . 
There's the whiskey , here's a syphon , and I'll be putting on an overcoat while you help yourself . 
Well , I daresay I did so with some freedom , for this plan of his was not the less distasteful to me from its apparent inevitability . 
I must own , however , that it possessed fewer terrors before my glass was empty . 
When we come back , said he . 
Work first , play afterward . 
Do you see what day it is ? he added , tearing a leaflet from a Shakespearian calendar , as I drained my glass . 
'The Ides of March , the Ides of March , remember . 
So we went out together as the clock on the chimney piece was striking two . 
II Piccadilly was a trench of raw white fog , rimmed with blurred street lamps , and lined with a thin coating of adhesive mud . 
You see , I'm known to the police , laughed Raffles as we passed on . 
Raffles was gazing up at some windows across the road , windows barely discernible through the mist , and without the glimmer of a light to throw them out . 
They were over a jeweller's shop , as I could see by the peep hole in the shop door , and the bright light burning within . 
But the entire upper part , with the private street door next the shop , was black and blank as the sky itself . 
Better give it up for to night , I urged . 
Surely the morning will be time enough ! Not a bit of it , said Raffles . 
And seizing my right arm , he hurried me across the road , opened the door with his latch key , and in another moment had shut it swiftly but softly behind us . 
We stood together in the dark . 
Outside , a measured step was approaching we had heard it through the fog as we crossed the street now , as it drew nearer , my companion's fingers tightened on my arm . 
It may be the chap himself , he whispered . 
He's the devil of a night bird . 
Not a sound , Bunny ! We'll startle the life out of him . 
Ah ! The measured step had passed without a pause . 
Raffles drew a deep breath , and his singular grip of me slowly relaxed . 
But still , not a sound , he continued in the same whisper we'll take a rise out of him , wherever he is ! Slip off your shoes and follow me . 
Well , you may wonder at my doing so but you can never have met A. J. Raffles . 
Half his power lay in a conciliating trick of sinking the commander in the leader . 
And it was impossible not to follow one who led with such a zest . 
You might question , but you followed first . 
But obviously Raffles and he were on exceptional terms of intimacy , and I could not but infer that they were in the habit of playing practical jokes upon each other . 
We groped our way so slowly upstairs that I had time to make more than one note before we reached the top . 
The spread fingers of my right hand encountered nothing on the damp wall those of my left trailed through a dust that could be felt on the banisters . 
An eerie sensation had been upon me since we entered the house . 
It increased with every step we climbed . 
What hermit were we going to startle in his cell ? We came to a landing . 
The banisters led us to the left , and to the left again . 
Four steps more , and we were on another and a longer landing , and suddenly a match blazed from the black . 
I never heard it struck . 
Where have you brought me ? I cried . 
The house is unoccupied ! Hush ! Wait ! he whispered , and he led the way into one of the empty rooms . 
His match went out as we crossed the threshold , and he struck another without the slightest noise . 
Then he stood with his back to me , fumbling with something that I could not see . 
But , when he threw the second match away , there was some other light in its stead , and a slight smell of oil . 
I stepped forward to look over his shoulder , but before I could do so he had turned and flashed a tiny lantern in my face . 
What's this ? I gasped . 
What rotten trick are you going to play ? It's played , he answered , with his quiet laugh . 
On me ? I am afraid so , Bunny . 
Is there no one in the house , then ? No one but ourselves . 
So it was mere chaff about your friend in Bond Street , who could let us have that money ? Not altogether . 
It's quite true that Danby is a friend of mine . 
Danby ? The jeweller underneath . 
What do you mean ? I whispered , trembling like a leaf as his meaning dawned upon me . 
Are we to get the money from the jeweller ? Well , not exactly . 
What , then ? The equivalent from his shop . 
There was no need for another question . 
I understood everything but my own density . 
He had given me a dozen hints , and I had taken none . 
And there I stood staring at him , in that empty room and there he stood with his dark lantern , laughing at me . 
A burglar ! I gasped . 
You you ! I told you I lived by my wits . 
I wanted to tell you , said he . 
I was on the point of telling you more than once . 
You may remember how I sounded you about crime , though you have probably forgotten what you said yourself . 
I didn't think you meant it at the time , but I thought I'd put you to the test . 
Now I see you didn't , and I don't blame you . 
I only am to blame . 
Get out of it , my dear boy , as quick as you can leave it to me . 
But he set me free to leave him in the lurch . 
He would not blame me . 
He did not even bind me to secrecy he trusted me . 
He knew my weakness and my strength , and was playing on both with his master's touch . 
Not so fast , said I. Did I put this into your head , or were you going to do it in any case ? Not in any case , said Raffles . 
You mean it ? Yes for to night . 
I know the shop , he whispered , because I've got a few things there . 
I know this upper part too it's been to let for a month , and I got an order to view , and took a cast of the key before using it . 
The one thing I don't know is how to make a connection between the two at present there's none . 
We may make it up here , though I rather fancy the basement myself . 
If you wait a minute I'll tell you . 
That was our one chance , said he a back window above a back window but it's too dark to see anything , and we daren't show an outside light . 
Come down after me to the basement and remember , though there's not a soul on the premises , you can't make too little noise . 
There there listen to that ! It was the measured tread that we had heard before on the flagstones outside . 
Raffles darkened his lantern , and again we stood motionless till it had passed . 
Either a policeman , he muttered , or a watchman that all these jewellers run between them . 
The watchman's the man for us to watch he's simply paid to spot this kind of thing . 
We were now considerably below the level of the street , in a small space with as many doors as it had sides . 
Next moment I saw the door wide open , and Raffles standing within and beckoning me with a jimmy . 
Door number one , he whispered . 
Deuce knows how many more there'll be , but I know of two at least . 
We won't have to make much noise over them , either down here there's less risk . 
But this flight led to no open passage instead , a singularly solid mahogany door confronted us at the top . 
I thought so , muttered Raffles , handing me the lantern , and pocketing a bunch of skeleton keys , after tampering for a few minutes with the lock . 
It'll be an hour's work to get through that ! Can't you pick it ? No I know these locks . 
We must cut it out , and it'll take us an hour . 
It took us forty seven minutes by my watch or , rather , it took Raffles and never in my life have I seen anything more deliberately done . 
My part was simply to stand by with the dark lantern in one hand , and a small bottle of rock oil in the other . 
Raffles had produced a pretty embroidered case , intended obviously for his razors , but filled instead with the tools of his secret trade , including the rock oil . 
From this case he selected a bit , capable of drilling a hole an inch in diameter , and fitted it to a small but very strong steel brace . 
But first he oiled the bit to minimize the noise , and this he did invariably before beginning a fresh hole , and often in the middle of one . 
It took thirty two separate borings to cut around that lock . 
I was afraid so ! What is it ? An iron gate on the other side ! How on earth are we to get through that ? I asked in dismay . 
But there may be two . 
In that case they'll be top and bottom , and we shall have two fresh holes to make , as the door opens inwards . 
It won't open two inches as it is . 
The truth is that I was entering into our nefarious undertaking with an involuntary zeal of which I was myself quite unconscious at the time . 
The romance and the peril of the whole proceeding held me spellbound and entranced . 
My moral sense and my sense of fear were stricken by a common paralysis . 
And there I stood , shining my light and holding my phial with a keener interest than I had ever brought to any honest avocation . 
Now , whispered Raffles , if there's only one lock it'll be in the middle . 
Joy ! Here it is ! Only let me pick it , and we're through at last . 
He withdrew his arm , a skeleton key was selected from the bunch , and then back went his arm to the shoulder . 
It was a breathless moment . 
I heard the heart throbbing in my body , the very watch ticking in my pocket , and ever and anon the tinkle tinkle of the skeleton key . 
Then at last there came a single unmistakable click . 
We were now in a bare and roomy lobby behind the shop , but separated therefrom by an iron curtain , the very sight of which filled me with despair . 
Raffles , however , did not appear in the least depressed , but hung up his coat and hat on some pegs in the lobby before examining this curtain with his lantern . 
That's nothing , said he , after a minute's inspection we'll be through that in no time , but there's a door on the other side which may give us trouble . 
Another door ! I groaned . 
And how do you mean to tackle this thing ? Prise it up with the jointed jimmy . 
The weak point of these iron curtains is the leverage you can get from below . 
But it makes a noise , and this is where you're coming in , Bunny this is where I couldn't do without you . 
I must have you overhead to knock through when the street's clear . 
I'll come with you and show a light . 
Well , you may imagine how little I liked the prospect of this lonely vigil and yet there was something very stimulating in the vital responsibility which it involved . 
Hitherto I had been a mere spectator . 
Now I was to take part in the game . 
And the fresh excitement made me more than ever insensible to those considerations of conscience and of safety which were already as dead nerves in my breast . 
So I took my post without a murmur in the front room above the shop . 
The fixtures had been left for the refusal of the incoming tenant , and fortunately for us they included Venetian blinds which were already down . 
Once , indeed , my heart was in my mouth , but only once . 
It was when the watchman stopped and peered through the peep hole into the lighted shop . 
I waited for his whistle I waited for the gallows or the gaol ! But my signals had been studiously obeyed , and the man passed on in undisturbed serenity . 
Well done , my boy ! said he . 
You're the same good man in a pinch , and you shall have your reward . 
I've got a thousand pounds' worth if I've got a penn'oth . 
It's all in my pockets . 
And here's something else I found in this locker very decent port and some cigars , meant for poor dear Danby's business friends . 
Take a pull , and you shall light up presently . 
I've found a lavatory , too , and we must have a wash and brush up before we go , for I'm as black as your boot . 
The iron curtain was down , but he insisted on raising it until I could peep through the glass door on the other side and see his handiwork in the shop beyond . 
Here two electric lights were left burning all night long , and in their cold white rays I could at first see nothing amiss . 
He had confined himself entirely to the shop window . 
This was in three compartments , each secured for the night by removable panels with separate locks . 
Raffles had removed them a few hours before their time , and the electric light shone on a corrugated shutter bare as the ribs of an empty carcase . 
Every article of value was gone from the one place which was invisible from the little window in the door elsewhere all was as it had been left overnight . 
Had it in my head for long ? said Raffles , as we strolled through the streets towards dawn , for all the world as though we were returning from a dance . 
I had helped him to commit one burglary , therefore I was a burglar , too . 
Yet I could stand and warm myself by his fire , and watch him empty his pockets , as though we had done nothing wonderful or wicked ! My blood froze . 
How I had liked this villain ! How I had admired him ! Now my liking and admiration must turn to loathing and disgust . 
I waited for the change . 
I longed to feel it in my heart . 
But I longed and I waited in vain ! I saw that he was emptying his pockets the table sparkled with their hoard . 
Last of all came no gem , indeed , but my own revolver from an inner pocket . 
And that struck a chord . 
I suppose I said something my hand flew out . 
I can see Raffles now , as he looked at me once more with a high arch over each clear eye . 
I can see him pick out the cartridges with his quiet , cynical smile , before he would give me my pistol back again . 
You mayn't believe it , Bunny , said he , but I never carried a loaded one before . 
On the whole I think it gives one confidence . 
Don't look so distressed , my dear chap . 
I've never had those sensations , and I don't suppose I ever shall . 
But this much you have done before ? said I hoarsely . 
Before ? My dear Bunny , you offend me ! Did it look like a first attempt ? Of course I have done it before . 
Often ? Well no ! Not often enough to destroy the charm , at all events never , as a matter of fact , unless I'm cursedly hard up . 
Did you hear about the Thimbleby diamonds ? Well , that was the last time and a poor lot of paste they were . 
Then there was the little business of the Dormer house boat at Henley last year . 
That was mine also such as it was . 
I've never brought off a really big coup yet when I do I shall chuck it up . 
Yes , I remembered both cases very well . 
To think that he was their author ! It was incredible , outrageous , inconceivable . 
Then my eyes would fall upon the table , twinkling and glittering in a hundred places , and incredulity was at an end . 
How came you to begin ? I asked , as curiosity overcame mere wonder , and a fascination for his career gradually wove itself into my fascination for the man . 
Ah ! that's a long story , said Raffles . 
It was in the Colonies , when I was out there playing cricket . 
It's too long a story to tell you now , but I was in much the same fix that you were in to night , and it was my only way out . 
I never meant it for anything more but I'd tasted blood , and it was all over with me . 
Besides , you're not at it all the time . 
I'm sick of quoting Gilbert's lines to myself , but they're profoundly true . 
I only wonder if you'll like the life as much as I do ! Like it ? I cried out . 
Not I ! It's no life for me . 
Once is enough ! You wouldn't give me a hand another time ? Don't ask me , Raffles . 
I ought to let it end at this . 
But you're the very man for me , Bunny , the very man ! Just think how we got through to night . 
Not a scratch not a hitch ! There's nothing very terrible in it , you see there never would be , while we worked together . 
He was standing in front of me with a hand on either shoulder he was smiling as he knew so well how to smile . 
I turned on my heel , planted my elbows on the chimney piece , and my burning head between my hands . 
Next instant a still heartier hand had fallen on my back . 
All right , my boy ! You are quite right and I'm worse than wrong . 
I'll never ask it again . 
Go , if you want to , and come again about mid day for the cash . 
There was no bargain but , of course , I'll get you out of your scrape especially after the way you've stood by me to night . 
I was round again with my blood on fire . 
I'll do it again , I said , through my teeth . 
Not you , he said , smiling quite good humoredly on my insane enthusiasm . 
I will , I cried with an oath . 
I'll lend you a hand as often as you like ! What does it matter now ? I've been in it once . 
I'll be in it again . 
I've gone to the devil anyhow . 
I can't go back , and wouldn't if I could . 
Nothing matters another rap ! When you want me , I'm your man ! And that is how Raffles and I joined felonious forces on the Ides of March . 
A COSTUME PIECE London was just then talking of one whose name is already a name and nothing more . 
I was not at the banquet myself , but a member took Raffles , who told me all about it that very night . 
Most extraordinary show I ever went to in my life , said he . 
As for the man himself well , I was prepared for something grotesque , but the fellow fairly took my breath away . 
Drank like a fire engine , but only got drunk enough to make us a speech that I wouldn't have missed for ten pounds . 
I'm only sorry you weren't there , too , Bunny , old chap . 
I began to be sorry myself , for Raffles was anything but an excitable person , and never had I seen him so excited before . 
What did he say ? I inquired mechanically , divining some subtler explanation of this visit , and wondering what on earth it could be . 
He mentioned names , too , with the most charming freedom , and swore he was as good a man as the Old Country had to show PACE the Old Bohemians . 
If he did , he wouldn't have the pluck to wear them . 
But he had he'd tell us why . 
There was quite a panic for the moment one fellow was saying his prayers under the table , and the waiters bolted to a man . 
What a grotesque scene ! Grotesque enough , but I rather wish they had let him go the whole hog and blaze away . 
And Raffles leaned towards me with a sly , slow smile that made the hidden meaning of his visit only too plain to me at last . 
So you think of having a try for his diamonds yourself ? He shrugged his shoulders . 
It is horribly obvious , I admit . 
It is simply thrust upon one . 
I was fated to hear that challenge , Bunny , and I , for one , must take it up . 
I was only sorry I couldn't get on my hind legs and say so then and there . 
Well , I said , I don't see the necessity as things are with us but , of course , I'm your man . 
My tone may have been half hearted . 
I did my best to make it otherwise . 
But it was barely a month since our Bond Street exploit , and we certainly could have afforded to behave ourselves for some time to come . 
I thought we ought to know when we were well off , and could see no point in our running fresh risks before we were obliged . 
On the other hand , I was anxious not to show the least disposition to break the pledge that I had given a month ago . 
But it was not on my manifest disinclination that Raffles fastened . 
Art for art's sake is a vile catchword , but I confess it appeals to me . 
In this case my motives are absolutely pure , for I doubt if we shall ever be able to dispose of such peculiar stones . 
But if I don't have a try for them after to night I shall never be able to hold up my head again . 
His eye twinkled , but it glittered , too . 
We shall have our work cut out , was all I said . 
And do you suppose I should be keen on it if we hadn't ? cried Raffles . 
My dear fellow , I would rob St . 
Paul's Cathedral if I could , but I could no more scoop a till when the shopwalker wasn't looking than I could bag the apples out of an old woman's basket . 
Even that little business last month was a sordid affair , but it was necessary , and I think its strategy redeemed it to some extent . 
Now there's some credit , and more sport , in going where they boast they're on their guard against you . 
We know how Billy Purvis can fight . 
It'll be no soft thing , I grant you . 
Trust me for that , was his reply I'll see you through . 
After all I expect to find that the difficulties are nearly all on the surface . 
These fellows both drink like the devil , and that should simplify matters considerably . 
But we shall see , and we must take our time . 
There will probably turn out to be a dozen different ways in which the thing might be done , and we shall have to choose between them . 
That's to say , if you're really on ? Of course I am , I replied indignantly . 
But why should I give you a week ? Why shouldn't we watch the house together ? Because two eyes are as good as four and take up less room . 
Never hunt in couples unless you're obliged . 
But don't you look offended , Bunny there'll be plenty for you to do when the time comes , that I promise you . 
You shall have your share of the fun , never fear , and a purple diamond all to yourself if we're lucky . 
On the whole , however , this conversation left me less than lukewarm , and I still remember the depression which came upon me when Raffles was gone . 
I saw the folly of the enterprise to which I had committed myself the sheer , gratuitous , unnecessary folly of it . 
I admired the spirit of pure mischief in which he seemed prepared to risk his liberty and his life , but I did not find it an infectious spirit on calm reflection . 
Yet the thought of withdrawal was not to be entertained for a moment . 
It made it no better that this was characteristic of the man and of his attitude towards me . 
For a month we had been , I suppose , the thickest thieves in all London , and yet our intimacy was curiously incomplete . 
With all his charming frankness , there was in Raffles a vein of capricious reserve which was perceptible enough to be very irritating . 
He had the instinctive secretiveness of the inveterate criminal . 
He was consistently mysterious about that and other details , of which it seemed to me that I had already earned the right to know everything . 
I could not but remember how he had led me into my first felony , by means of a trick , while yet uncertain whether he could trust me or not . 
That I could no longer afford to resent , but I did resent his want of confidence in me now . 
I said nothing about it , but it rankled every day , and never more than in the week that succeeded the Rosenthall dinner . 
When I met Raffles at the club he would tell me nothing when I went to his rooms he was out , or pretended to be . 
Then and there , in my annoyance , I took my own decision . 
The house he was occupying is , I believe , quite the largest in the St . 
Quiet also was the great square house , in its garden of grass plots and shrubs the lights were low , the millionaire and his friends obviously spending their evening elsewhere . 
The garden walls were only a few feet high . 
I turned round and faced the dark scowl and the dirty clenched fists of a dilapidated tramp . 
You fool ! said he . 
A few moments I stood astounded , indignant , at a loss then I followed him . 
His feet trailed , his knees gave , his back was bowed , his head kept nodding it was the gait of a man eighty years of age . 
Presently he waited for me midway between two lamp posts . 
As I came up he was lighting rank tobacco , in a cutty pipe , with an evil smelling match , and the flame showed me the suspicion of a smile . 
You must forgive my heat , Bunny , but it really was very foolish of you . 
It's a costume piece , and in you rush in your ordinary clothes . 
I tell you they're on the lookout for us night and day . 
It's the toughest nut I ever tackled ! Well , said I , if you had told me so before I shouldn't have come . 
He looked hard at me from under the broken brim of a battered billycock . 
You're right , he said at length . 
It's become second nature with me when I've anything on . 
But here's an end of it , Bunny , so far as you're concerned . 
I'm going home now , and I want you to follow me but for heaven's sake keep your distance , and don't speak to me again till I speak to you . 
There give me a start . 
And he was off again , a decrepit vagabond , with his hands in his pockets , his elbows squared , and frayed coat tails swinging raggedly from side to side . 
I followed him to the Finchley Road . 
There he took an Atlas omnibus , and I sat some rows behind him on the top , but not far enough to escape the pest of his vile tobacco . 
Once more I felt the fascination of a comrade who was forever dazzling one with a fresh and unsuspected facet of his character . 
As we neared Piccadilly I wondered what he would do . 
Surely he was not going into the Albany like that ? No , he took another omnibus to Sloane Street , I sitting behind him as before . 
At Sloane Street we changed again , and were presently in the long lean artery of the King's Road . 
I was now all agog to know our destination , nor was I kept many more minutes in doubt . 
He crossed the road and disappeared up a dark turning . 
I pressed after him , and was in time to see his coat tails as he plunged into a still darker flagged alley to the right . 
He was holding himself up and stepping out like a young man once more also , in some subtle way , he already looked less disreputable . 
But I alone was there to see him , the alley was absolutely deserted , and desperately dark . 
At the further end he opened a door with a latch key , and it was darker yet within . 
Instinctively I drew back and heard him chuckle . 
We could no longer see each other . 
All right , Bunny ! There's no hanky panky this time . 
These are studios , my friend , and I'm one of the lawful tenants . 
Indeed , in another minute we were in a lofty room with skylight , easels , dressing cupboard , platform , and every other adjunct save the signs of actual labor . 
The first thing I saw , as Raffles lit the gas , was its reflection in his silk hat on the pegs beside the rest of his normal garments . 
Looking for the works of art ? continued Raffles , lighting a cigarette and beginning to divest himself of his rags . 
I'm afraid you won't find any , but there's the canvas I'm always going to make a start upon . 
I tell them I'm looking high and low for my ideal model . 
You never told me you went in for disguises , said I , watching him as he cleansed the grime from his face and hands . 
No , Bunny , I've treated you very shabbily all round . 
I have something to sleep on , as you perceive , in case of need , and , of course , my name is not Raffles in the King's Road . 
So you will see that one might bolt further and fare worse . 
Meanwhile you use the place as a dressing room ? It is my private pavilion , said Raffles . 
Then they're indispensable in dealing with the fences . 
I drive all my bargains in the tongue and raiment of Shoreditch . 
If I didn't there'd be the very devil to pay in blackmail . 
Now , this cupboard's full of all sorts of toggery . 
I tell the woman who cleans the room that it's for my models when I find 'em . 
By the way , I only hope I've got something that'll fit you , for you'll want a rig for to morrow night . 
To morrow night ! I exclaimed . 
Why , what do you mean to do ? The trick , said Raffles . 
There's nothing like putting the nervous players in first it's the sitting with their pads on that upsets their applecart that was another of my reasons for being so confoundedly close . 
You must try to forgive me . 
I couldn't help remembering how well you played up last trip , without any time to weaken on it beforehand . 
Mind you , I don't say this will be the tougher job all round we shall probably get in without any difficulty at all it's the getting out again that may flummox us . 
That's the worst of an irregular household ! cried Raffles , with quite a burst of virtuous indignation . 
I don't believe they ever get to bed at all poor devils ! No , I mean Rosenthall himself , and that pasty faced beast Purvis . 
They were up and drinking from midnight , when they came in , to broad daylight , when I cleared out . 
Even then I left them sober enough to slang each other . 
You know what an I. D. B. is ? Illicit Diamond Buyer ? Exactly . 
Well , it seems that Rosenthall was one . 
He must have let it out to Purvis in his cups . 
Anyhow , I heard Purvis taunting him with it , and threatening him with the breakwater at Capetown and I begin to think our friends are friend and foe . 
But about to morrow night there's nothing subtle in my plan . 
It's simply to get in while these fellows are out on the loose , and to lie low till they come back , and longer . 
If possible , we must doctor the whiskey . 
That would simplify the whole thing , though it's not a very sporting game to play still , we must remember Rosenthall's revolver we don't want him to sign his name on US . 
With all those Kaffirs about , however , it's ten to one on the whiskey , and a hundred to one against us if we go looking for it . 
A brush with the heathen would spoil everything , if it did no more . 
Besides , there are the ladies The deuce there are ! Ladies with an I , and the very voices for raising Cain . 
I fear , I fear the clamor ! It would be fatal to us . 
Au contraire , if we can manage to stow ourselves away unbeknownst , half the battle will be won . 
If Rosenthall turns in drunk , it's a purple diamond apiece . 
If he sits up sober , it may be a bullet instead . 
We will hope not , Bunny and all the firing wouldn't be on one side but it's on the knees of the gods . 
And so we left it when we shook hands in Picadilly not by any means as much later as I could have wished . 
Raffles would not ask me to his rooms that night . 
He said he made it a rule to have a long night before playing cricket and other games . 
His final word to me was framed on the same principle . 
Mind , only one drink to night , Bunny . 
I wondered whether I should ever see another , and was very hard on myself for that little expedition which I had made on my own wilful account . 
Our luck seemed to have deserted us the owner of the purple diamonds was dining at home and dining at undue length . 
I thought it was a dinner party . 
Raffles differed in the end he proved right . 
Let me make our position perfectly clear . 
We were over the wall , at the side of the house , but a few feet from the dining room windows . 
We saw Rosenthall come out saw the glimmer of his diamonds before anything . 
Then came the pugilist then a lady with a head of hair like a bath sponge then another , and the party was complete . 
Raffles ducked and pulled me down in great excitement . 
The ladies are going with them , he whispered . 
This is great ! That's better still . 
The Gardenia ! the millionaire had bawled . 
And that's best of all , said Raffles , standing upright as hoofs and wheels crunched through the gates and rattled off at a fine speed . 
Now what ? I whispered , trembling with excitement . 
Yes , here come their shadows . 
The drawing room windows open on the lawn . 
Bunny , it's the psychological moment . 
His own hands were firm and cool as he adjusted my mask for me , and then his own . 
By Jove , old boy , he whispered cheerily , you look about the greatest ruffian I ever saw ! These masks alone will down a nigger , if we meet one . 
But I'm glad I remembered to tell you not to shave . 
You'll pass for Whitechapel if the worst comes to the worst and you don't forget to talk the lingo . 
Better sulk like a mule if you're not sure of it , and leave the dialogue to me but , please our stars , there will be no need . 
Now , are you ready ? Quite . 
Got your gag ? Yes . 
In an instant we were over the wall , in another on the lawn behind the house . 
The very stars in their courses had veiled themselves for our benefit . 
I crept at my leader's heels to some French windows opening upon a shallow veranda . 
Luck again , he whispered nothing BUT luck ! Now for a light . 
And the light came ! A good score of electric burners glowed red for the fraction of a second , then rained merciless white beams into our blinded eyes . 
When we found our sight four revolvers covered us , and between two of them the colossal frame of Reuben Rosenthall shook with a wheezy laughter from head to foot . 
Good evening , boys , he hiccoughed . 
Glad to see ye at last . 
Shift foot or finger , you on the left , though , and you're a dead boy . 
I mean you , you greaser ! he roared out at Raffles . 
I've been waitin' for you . 
But you left the same tracks every day , you buggins , an' the same tracks every night , all round the blessed premises . 
All right , guv'nor , drawled Raffles don't excite . 
We don't sweat to know 'ow you brung it orf . 
On'y don't you go for to shoot , 'cos we 'int awmed , s'help me Gord ! Ah , you're a knowin' one , said Rosenthall , fingering his triggers . 
But you've struck a knowin'er . 
Ho , yuss , we know all abaht thet ! Set a thief to ketch a thief ho , yuss . 
I was looking beyond them at the doorway filled with quivering silk and plush , black faces , white eyeballs , woolly pates . 
But a sudden silence recalled my attention to the millionaire . 
And only his nose retained its color . 
What d'ye mean ? he whispered with a hoarse oath . 
Spit it out , or , by Christmas , I'll drill you ! Whort price thet brikewater ? drawled Raffles coolly . 
Eh ? Rosenthall's revolvers were describing widening orbits . 
Whort price thet brikewater old I. D. B. ? Where in hell did you get hold o' that ? asked Rosenthall , with a rattle in his thick neck , meant for mirth . 
You may well arst , says Raffles . 
It's all over the plice w'ere I come from . 
Who can have spread such rot ? I dunno , says Raffles arst the gen'leman on yer left p'r'aps 'E knows . 
The gentleman on his left had turned livid with emotion . 
Guilty conscience never declared itself in plainer terms . 
Out o' the light out o' the light ! yelled Rosenthall in a frenzy . 
I cannot have been many moments without my senses . 
When I recovered them there was a great to do in the garden , but I had the drawing room to myself . 
Rosenthall and Purvis were rushing about outside , cursing the Kaffirs and nagging at each other . 
Over THAT wall , I tell yer ! I tell you it was this one . 
Can't you whistle for the police ? Police be damned ! I've had enough of the blessed police . 
Then we'd better get back and make sure of the other rotter . 
Oh , make sure o' yer skin . 
That's what you'd better do . 
Jala , you black hog , if I catch YOU skulkin' . 
I never heard the threat . 
I was creeping from the drawing room on my hands and knees , my own revolver swinging by its steel ring from my teeth . 
For an instant I thought that the hall also was deserted . 
I was wrong , and I crept upon a Kaffir on all fours . 
Why I went upstairs in that decisive fashion , as though it were my only course , I cannot explain . 
But garden and ground floor seemed alive with men , and I might have done worse . 
I turned into the first room I came to . 
Then the wardrobe door was flung suddenly open they had stolen into the room without a sound and I was hauled downstairs , an ignominious captive . 
Gross scenes followed in the hall the ladies were now upon the stage , and at sight of the desperate criminal they screamed with one accord . 
In truth I must have given them fair cause , though my mask was now torn away and hid nothing but my left ear . 
Rosenthall answered their shrieks with a roar for silence the woman with the bath sponge hair swore at him shrilly in return the place became a Babel impossible to describe . 
I remember wondering how long it would be before the police appeared . 
Purvis and the ladies were for calling them in and giving me in charge without delay . 
Rosenthall would not hear of it . 
He swore that he would shoot man or woman who left his sight . 
He had had enough of the police . 
He was not going to have them coming there to spoil sport he was going to deal with me in his own way . 
With that he dragged me from all other hands , flung me against a door , and sent a bullet crashing through the wood within an inch of my ear . 
You drunken fool ! It'll be murder ! shouted Purvis , getting in the way a second time . 
Wha' do I care ? He's armed , isn't he ? I shot him in self defence . 
It'll be a warning to others . 
Will you stand aside , or d'ye want it yourself ? You're drunk , said Purvis , still between us . 
I saw you take a neat tumblerful since you come in , and it's made you drunk as a fool . 
Pull yourself together , old man . 
You ain't a going to do what you'll be sorry for . 
Then I won't shoot at him , I'll only shoot roun' an' roun' the beggar . 
You're quite right , ole feller . 
Some splinters lodged in my hair . 
Next instant the prize fighter disarmed him and I was safe from the devil , but finally doomed to the deep sea . 
A policeman was in our midst . 
He had entered through the drawing room window he was an officer of few words and creditable promptitude . 
In a twinkling he had the handcuffs on my wrists , while the pugilist explained the situation , and his patron reviled the force and its representative with impotent malignity . 
A fine watch they kept a lot of good they did coming in when all was over and the whole household might have been murdered in their sleep . 
The officer only deigned to notice him as he marched me off . 
We know all about YOU , sir , said he contemptuously , and he refused the sovereign Purvis proffered . 
You will be seeing me again , sir , at Marylebone . 
Shall I come now ? As you please , sir . 
I rather think the other gentleman requires you more , and I don't fancy this young man means to give much trouble . 
Oh , I'm coming quietly , I said . 
In silence we traversed perhaps a hundred yards . 
It must have been midnight . 
We did not meet a soul . 
At last I whispered How on earth did you manage it ? Purely by luck , said Raffles . 
I had the luck to get clear away through knowing every brick of those back garden walls , and the double luck to have these togs with the rest over at Chelsea . 
The helmet is one of a collection I made up at Oxford here it goes over this wall , and we'd better carry the coat and belt before we meet a real officer . 
I got them once for a fancy ball ostensibly and thereby hangs a yarn . 
I always thought they might come in useful a second time . 
My chief crux to night was getting rid of the hansom that brought me back . 
I sent him off to Scotland Yard with ten bob and a special message to good old Mackenzie . 
The whole detective department will be at Rosenthall's in about half an hour . 
Of course , I speculated on our gentleman's hatred of the police another huge slice of luck . 
If you'd got away , well and good if not , I felt he was the man to play with his mouse as long as possible . 
Yes , Bunny , it's been more of a costume piece than I intended , and we've come out of it with a good deal less credit . 
Himself a dangerous bat , a brilliant field , and perhaps the very finest slow bowler of his decade , he took incredibly little interest in the game at large . 
He never went up to Lord's without his cricket bag , or showed the slightest interest in the result of a match in which he was not himself engaged . 
Nor was this mere hateful egotism on his part . 
He professed to have lost all enthusiasm for the game , and to keep it up only from the very lowest motives . 
Cricket , said Raffles , like everything else , is good enough sport until you discover a better . 
As a source of excitement it isn't in it with other things you wot of , Bunny , and the involuntary comparison becomes a bore . 
Yes , perhaps there's some affinity between the two things after all . 
But I'd chuck up cricket to morrow , Bunny , if it wasn't for the glorious protection it affords a person of my proclivities . 
How so ? said I. It brings you before the public , I should have thought , far more than is either safe or wise . 
My dear Bunny , that's exactly where you make a mistake . 
To follow Crime with reasonable impunity you simply MUST have a parallel , ostensible career the more public the better . 
Fill the bill in some prominent part , and you'll never be suspected of doubling it with another of equal prominence . 
That's why I want you to cultivate journalism , my boy , and sign all you can . 
And it's the one and only reason why I don't burn my bats for firewood . 
Nevertheless , when he did play there was no keener performer on the field , nor one more anxious to do well for his side . 
I remember how he went to the nets , before the first match of the season , with his pocket full of sovereigns , which he put on the stumps instead of bails . 
Raffles's practice cost him either eight or nine sovereigns but he had absolutely first class bowling all the time and he made fifty seven runs next day . 
You might have seen us there , side by side , during the greater part of the Gentlemen's first innings against the Players on the second Monday in July . 
We were to be seen , but not heard , for Raffles had failed to score , and was uncommonly cross for a player who cared so little for the game . 
I was therefore much surprised when a young fellow of the exquisite type came and squeezed himself in between us , and met with a perfectly civil reception despite the liberty . 
Mystification reached its height when Raffles was informed that the other's father was anxious to meet him , and he instantly consented to gratify that whim . 
He's in the Ladies' Enclosure . 
Will you come round now ? With pleasure , says Raffles . 
Keep a place for me , Bunny . 
Young Crowley , said some voice further back . 
Worst man in the team . 
Stopped till he was twenty to get his colors . 
Oh , pretty , sir ! Very pretty ! The game was boring me . 
I only came to see old Raffles perform . 
Soon I was looking wistfully for his return , and at length I saw him beckoning me from the palings to the right . 
Want to introduce you to old Amersteth , he whispered , when I joined him . 
They've a cricket week next month , when this boy Crowley comes of age , and we've both got to go down and play . 
But I'm no cricketer ! Shut up , says Raffles . 
I've been lying for all I'm worth , he added sepulchrally as we reached the bottom of the steps . 
I trust to you not to give the show away . 
Lord Amersteth was a fine looking man with a short mustache and a double chin . 
He received me with much dry courtesy , through which , however , it was not difficult to read a less flattering tale . 
I was accepted as the inevitable appendage of the invaluable Raffles , with whom I felt deeply incensed as I made my bow . 
I have been bold enough , said Lord Amersteth , to ask one of the Gentlemen of England to come down and play some rustic cricket for us next month . 
Raffles gleamed approval through his eyelashes . 
Lord Amersteth bowed and shrugged . 
You're very good , I'm sure , said he . 
But I understand you're a cricketer yourself ? He was one at school , said Raffles , with infamous readiness . 
Not a real cricketer , I was stammering meanwhile . 
In the eleven ? said Lord Amersteth . 
I'm afraid not , said I. But only just out of it , declared Raffles , to my horror . 
Well , well , we can't all play for the Gentlemen , said Lord Amersteth slyly . 
My son Crowley only just scraped into the eleven at Harrow , and HE'S going to play . 
You shall flog a stream before breakfast and after dinner , if you like . 
Then that's settled , said Lord Amersteth , with the slightest suspicion of grimness . 
It's to be a little week , you know , when my son comes of age . 
We play the Free Foresters , the Dorsetshire Gentlemen , and probably some local lot as well . 
But Mr. Raffles will tell you all about it , and Crowley shall write . 
Another wicket ! By Jove , they're all out ! Then I rely on you both . 
And , with a little nod , Lord Amersteth rose and sidled to the gangway . 
Raffles rose also , but I caught the sleeve of his blazer . 
What are you thinking of ? I whispered savagely . 
I was nowhere near the eleven . 
I'm no sort of cricketer . 
I shall have to get out of this ! Not you , he whispered back . 
You needn't play , but come you must . 
If you wait for me after half past six I'll tell you why . 
But I could guess the reason and I am ashamed to say that it revolted me much less than did the notion of making a public fool of myself on a cricket field . 
My gorge rose at this as it no longer rose at crime , and it was in no tranquil humor that I strolled about the ground while Raffles disappeared in the pavilion . 
It may have been pure self consciousness on my part , but I could have sworn that the trouble was their inability to secure the great Raffles without his insignificant friend . 
Then the bell rang , and I climbed to the top of the pavilion to watch Raffles bowl . 
It was no mere exhibition of athletic prowess , it was an intellectual treat , and one with a special significance in my eyes . 
I saw the affinity between the two things , saw it in that afternoon's tireless warfare against the flower of professional cricket . 
It was not that Raffles took many wickets for few runs he was too fine a bowler to mind being hit and time was short , and the wicket good . 
It was all so characteristic of that other Raffles whom I alone knew ! I felt like bowling this afternoon , he told me later in the hansom . 
But I felt venomous ! Nothing riles me more than being asked about for my cricket as though I were a pro . 
Diamonds galore ! As a general rule nothing would induce me to abuse my position as a guest . 
I've never done it , Bunny . 
But in this case we're engaged like the waiters and the band , and by heaven we'll take our toll ! Let's have a quiet dinner somewhere and talk it over . 
It seems rather a vulgar sort of theft , I could not help saying and to this , my single protest , Raffles instantly assented . 
It is a vulgar sort , said he but I can't help that . 
We're getting vulgarly hard up again , and there's an end on 't . 
Besides , these people deserve it , and can afford it . 
We may come away with no more than a good working plan of the premises . 
Who knows ? In any case there's weeks of thinking in it for you and me . 
His reticence , however , was no longer an irritant . 
I began to accept it as a necessary convention of these little enterprises . 
There was another idea which Raffles kept to himself until he had got me down there . 
Then one day he produced a cricket ball in a meadow we were crossing , and threw me catches for an hour together . 
Incident began early on the Monday . 
We had sallied forth from a desolate little junction within quite a few miles of Milchester , had been caught in a shower , had run for shelter to a wayside inn . 
He assured me , however , that the odor of stale ale had almost knocked him down . 
And I had to make what I could of his speculative , downcast eyes and knitted brows . 
I confess I felt overpowered . 
I little knew what an ordeal it was to prove . 
I had taken in a much less formidable young lady than might have fallen to my lot . 
Indeed I began by blessing my good fortune in this respect . 
Miss Melhuish was merely the rector's daughter , and she had only been asked to make an even number . 
She informed me of both facts before the soup reached us , and her subsequent conversation was characterized by the same engaging candor . 
It exposed what was little short of a mania for imparting information . 
I had simply to listen , to nod , and to be thankful . 
I said I thought I might , whereupon another question followed , in still lower and more thrilling accents Are you afraid of burglars ? Burglars ! I was roused at last . 
I repeated it in horrified query . 
So I've found something to interest you at last ! said Miss Melhuish , in naive triumph . 
Yes burglars ! But don't speak so loud . 
It's supposed to be kept a great secret . 
I really oughtn't to tell you at all ! But what is there to tell ? I whispered with satisfactory impatience . 
You promise not to speak of it ? Of course ! Well , then , there are burglars in the neighborhood . 
Have they committed any robberies ? Not yet . 
Then how do you know ? They've been seen . 
Two well known London thieves ! Two ! I looked at Raffles . 
I had done so often during the evening , envying him his high spirits , his iron nerve , his buoyant wit , his perfect ease and self possession . 
I caught up my champagne and emptied the glass . 
Who has seen them ? I then asked calmly . 
They were traced down from town a few days ago . 
Oh ! so they are being watched ? Yes , by a detective who is down here on purpose . 
This is really quite exciting , Miss Melhuish , said I. May I ask how you come to know so much about it ? It's papa , was the confidential reply . 
Lord Amersteth consulted him , and he consulted me . 
But for goodness' sake don't let it get about ! I can't think WHAT tempted me to tell you ! You may trust me , Miss Melhuish . 
But aren't you frightened ? Miss Melhuish giggled . 
Not a bit ! They won't come to the rectory . 
There's nothing for them there . 
She sat on Lord Amersteth's right , flourishing her ear trumpet , and drinking champagne with her usual notorious freedom , as dissipated and kindly a dame as the world has ever seen . 
It was a necklace of diamonds and sapphires that rose and fell about her ample neck . 
They say it's worth five thousand pounds at least , continued my companion . 
and the old dear WILL wear them every night . 
Think what a haul they would be ! No we don't feel in immediate danger at the rectory . 
The opinion may smack of vanity , though , in reality , the very springs of conversation reside in that same human , universal itch to thrill the auditor . 
The peculiarity of Miss Melhuish was that she must be thrilling at all costs . 
And thrilling she had surely been . 
I spare you my feelings of the next two hours . 
I tried hard to get a word with Raffles , but again and again I failed . 
In the dining room he and Crowley lit their cigarettes with the same match , and had their heads together all the time . 
In the drawing room I had the mortification of hearing him talk interminable nonsense into the ear trumpet of Lady Melrose , whom he knew in town . 
, but to obtain for Lord Amersteth such a series of cricket photographs as had never been taken before whether as an amateur or a professional photographer I was unable to determine . 
I remember , however , seeking distraction in little bursts of resolute attention to the conversation of this bore . 
And so at last the long ordeal ended glasses were emptied , men said good night , and I followed Raffles to his room . 
It's all up ! I gasped , as he turned up the gas and I shut the door . 
We've been followed down from town . 
There's a detective here on the spot ! How do YOU know ? asked Raffles , turning upon me quite sharply , but without the least dismay . 
And I told him how I knew . 
Of course , I added , it was the fellow we saw in the inn this afternoon . 
The detective ? said Raffles . 
Do you mean to say you don't know a detective when you see one , Bunny ? If that wasn't the fellow , which is ? Raffles shook his head . 
To think that you've been talking to him for the last hour in the billiard room and couldn't spot what he was ! The Scotch photographer I paused aghast . 
Scotch he is , said Raffles , and photographer he may be . 
He is also Inspector Mackenzie of Scotland Yard the very man I sent the message to that night last April . 
But he's watching us ! Raffles looked at me with a pitying eye , and shook his head again before handing me his open cigarette case . 
I don't know whether smoking's forbidden in one's bedroom , but you'd better take one of these and stand tight , Bunny , because I'm going to say something offensive . 
I helped myself with a laugh . 
Say what you like , my dear fellow , if it really isn't you and I that Mackenzie's after . 
At least I don't think I am it would be interesting to see . 
The situation wasn't free from strain as it was , though I knew he wasn't thinking of us . 
Crowley told me all about it after dinner , you see , and then I'd seen one of the men for myself this afternoon . 
You thought it was a detective who made me turn tail at that inn . 
I really don't know why I didn't tell you at the time , but it was just the opposite . 
That loud , red faced brute is one of the cleverest thieves in London , and I once had a drink with him and our mutual fence . 
I was an Eastender from tongue to toe at the moment , but you will understand that I don't run unnecessary risks of recognition by a brute like that . 
He's not alone , I hear . 
By no means there's at least one other man with him and it's suggested that there may be an accomplice here in the house . 
Did Lord Crowley tell you so ? Crowley and the champagne between them . 
In confidence , of course , just as your girl told you but even in confidence he never let on about Mackenzie . 
He told me there was a detective in the background , but that was all . 
That's my reading of the situation , Bunny , and you will agree with me that it's infinitely more interesting than we could have imagined it would prove . 
But infinitely more difficult for us , said I , with a sigh of pusillanimous relief . 
Our hands are tied for this week , at all events . 
Not necessarily , my dear Bunny , though I admit that the chances are against us . 
Yet I'm not so sure of that either . 
There are all sorts of possibilities in these three cornered combinations . 
Gentlemen and Players at single wicket , by Jove ! His eyes were brighter than I had known them for many a day . 
They shone with the perverted enthusiasm which was roused in him only by the contemplation of some new audacity . 
Take a lesson from our last escape , and fly lower as you value our skins . 
You're quite right , Bunny . 
No , no , I won't . 
But I wonder how the professors think of going to work ? That's what one wants to know . 
And with that assurance I went off to my own room , and so to bed with an incredibly light heart . 
I had , however , one rather strong point . 
I possessed the gift of dismissing unpleasant considerations , not intimately connected with the passing moment , entirely from my mind . 
It is true that there were other factors in this pleasing disappointment . 
In the first place , mirabile dictu , there were one or two even greater duffers than I on the Abbey cricket field . 
The week was to end with a trumpery match on the Saturday , which two or three of us intended abandoning early in order to return to town that night . 
The match , however , was never played . 
In the small hours of the Saturday morning a tragedy took place at Milchester Abbey . 
Let me tell of the thing as I saw and heard it . 
My room opened upon the central gallery , and was not even on the same floor as that on which Raffles and I think all the other men were quartered . 
I had been put , in fact , into the dressing room of one of the grand suites , and my too near neighbors were old Lady Melrose and my host and hostess . 
A heavy thud had come against my door , and now I heard hard breathing and the dull stamp of muffled feet . 
I've got ye , muttered a voice . 
It was the Scotch detective , and a new fear turned me cold . 
There was no reply , but the hard breathing grew harder still , and the muffled feet beat the floor to a quicker measure . 
In sudden panic I sprang out of bed and flung open my door . 
A light burnt low on the landing , and by it I could see Mackenzie swaying and staggering in a silent tussle with some powerful adversary . 
Hold this man ! he cried , as I appeared . 
He was one of the footmen who waited at table and no sooner had I pinned him than the detective loosed his hold . 
Hang on to him , he cried . 
There's more of 'em below . 
And he went leaping down the stairs , as other doors opened and Lord Amersteth and his son appeared simultaneously in their pyjamas . 
At that my man ceased struggling but I was still holding him when Crowley turned up the gas . 
What the devil's all this ? asked Lord Amersteth , blinking . 
Who was that ran downstairs ? Mac Clephane ! said I hastily . 
Aha ! said he , turning to the footman . 
So you're the scoundrel , are you ? Well done ! Well done ! Where was he caught ? I had no idea . 
Here's Lady Melrose's door open , said Crowley . 
Lady Melrose ! Lady Melrose ! You forget she's deaf , said Lord Amersteth . 
Ah ! that'll be her maid . 
An inner door had opened next instant there was a little shriek , and a white figure gesticulated on the threshold . 
Ou donc est l'ecrin de Madame la Marquise ? La fenetre est ouverte . 
Il a disparu ! Window open and jewel case gone , by Jove ! exclaimed Lord Amersteth . 
Mais comment est Madame la Marquise ? Est elle bien ? Oui , milor . 
Sleeps through it all , said my lord . 
She's the only one , then ! What made Mackenzie Clephane bolt ? young Crowley asked me . 
Said there were more of them below . 
Why the devil couldn't you tell us so before ? he cried , and went leaping downstairs in his turn . 
He was followed by nearly all the cricketers , who now burst upon the scene in a body , only to desert it for the chase . 
Lord Amersteth had him in an instant but the fellow fought desperately , and it took the two of us to drag him downstairs , amid a terrified chorus from half open doors . 
I thought I heard a shot , he added . 
Didn't you ? I thought I heard three . 
And out we dashed into the darkness . 
I remember how the gravel pricked my feet , how the wet grass numbed them as we made for the sound of voices on an outlying lawn . 
Who's this ? he cried . 
What on earth's happened ? It's Clephane , said a man who knelt over him . 
He's got a bullet in him somewhere . 
Is he alive ? Barely . 
Good God ! Where's Crowley ? Here I am , called a breathless voice . 
It's no good , you fellows . 
There's nothing to show which way they've gone . 
Here's Raffles he's chucked it , too . 
And they ran up panting . 
Well , we've got one of them , at all events , muttered Lord Amersteth . 
The next thing is to get this poor fellow indoors . 
Take his shoulders , somebody . 
All together , now that's the way . 
Poor fellow ! Poor fellow ! His name isn't Clephane at all . 
He's a Scotland Yard detective , down here for these very villains ! Raffles was the first to express surprise but he had also been the first to raise the wounded man . 
Nor had any of them a stronger or more tender hand in the slow procession to the house . 
In a little we had the senseless man stretched on a sofa in the library . 
And there , with ice on his wound and brandy in his throat , his eyes opened and his lips moved . 
Lord Amersteth bent down to catch the words . 
Yes , yes , said he we've got one of them safe and sound . 
The brute you collared upstairs . 
An hour passed the sun was rising . 
It found a dozen young fellows on the settees in the billiard room , drinking whiskey and soda water in their overcoats and pyjamas , and still talking excitedly in one breath . 
A time table was being passed from hand to hand the doctor was still in the library . 
At last the door opened , and Lord Amersteth put in his head . 
It isn't hopeless , said he , but it's bad enough . 
There'll be no cricket to day . 
Another hour , and most of us were on our way to catch the early train between us we filled a compartment almost to suffocation . 
Raffles watched me under lowered lids . 
I , for one , have probably gained as much in experience as I have lost in other things . 
That lowering the jewel case out of the window was a very simple and effective expedient two of them had been waiting below for it for hours . 
How do you know ? I asked . 
I saw them from my own window , which was just above the dear old lady's . 
I was fretting for that necklace in particular , when I went up to turn in for our last night and I happened to look out of my window . 
In point of fact , I wanted to see whether the one below was open , and whether there was the slightest chance of working the oracle with my sheet for a rope . 
Of course I took the precaution of turning my light off first , and it was a lucky thing I did . 
right down below , and they never saw me . 
I saw a little tiny luminous disk just for an instant , and then again for an instant a few minutes later . 
Of course I knew what it was , for I have my own watch dial daubed with luminous paint it makes a lantern of sorts when you can get no better . 
But these fellows were not using theirs as a lantern . 
They were under the old lady's window . 
They were watching the time . 
The whole thing was arranged with their accomplice inside . 
Set a thief to catch a thief in a minute I had guessed what the whole thing proved to be . 
And you did nothing ! I exclaimed . 
On the contrary , I went downstairs and straight into Lady Melrose's room You did ? Without a moment's hesitation . 
And I was prepared to yell as much into her ear trumpet for all the house to hear . 
But the dear lady is too deaf and too fond of her dinner to wake easily . 
Well ? She didn't stir . 
LE PREMIER PAS That night he told me the story of his earliest crime . 
Raffles would plan a fresh enormity , or glory in the last , with the unmitigated enthusiasm of the artist . 
It was impossible to imagine one throb or twitter of compunction beneath those frankly egotistic and infectious transports . 
It's no use , I replied . 
I must imagine it for myself . 
How can you ? Oh , I begin to know your methods . 
You take it I went in with my eyes open , as I do now , eh ? I can't imagine your doing otherwise . 
My dear Bunny , it was the most unpremeditated thing I ever did in my life ! His chair wheeled back into the books as he sprang up with sudden energy . 
There was quite an indignant glitter in his eyes . 
I can't believe that , said I craftily . 
As a matter of fact I've been thinking of the thing myself last night's racket reminds me of it in one or two respects . 
I tell you what , though , this is an occasion in any case , and I'm going to celebrate it by breaking the one good rule of my life . 
The windows were wide open the sounds of Piccadilly floated in at first . 
Long before he finished , the last wheels had rattled , the last brawler was removed , we alone broke the quiet of the summer night . 
No , they do you very well , indeed . 
You pay for nothing but drinks , so to speak , but I'm afraid mine were of a comprehensive character . 
I wasn't the steady old stager I am now , Bunny my analysis was a confession in itself . 
But the others didn't know how hard up I was , and I swore they shouldn't . 
I tried the Jews , but they're extra fly out there . 
If he was a rich man , well and good , I would work him if not there would be no harm done . 
at the very moment when I happened to have a few days to myself . 
I was cut over on the hand , just before the big Christmas match , and couldn't have bowled a ball if they had played me . 
The surgeon who fixed me up happened to ask me if I was any relation of Raffles of the National Bank , and the pure luck of it almost took my breath away . 
'I'll do more , says the doctor . 
'I'll get you the name of the branch he's been promoted to , for I think I heard they'd moved him up one already . 
'He's a single man , and his initials are W. F. , said the doctor , who was certain enough of the immaterial points . 
'He left his old post several days ago , but it appears he's not due at the new one till the New Year . 
No doubt he'll go before then to take things over and settle in . 
You might find him up there and you might not . 
If I were you I should write . 
'Then , said the doctor , 'I should get a quiet horse and ride . 
You needn't use that hand . 
'Can't I go by train ? 'You can and you can't . 
You would still have to ride . 
I suppose you're a horseman ? 'Yes . 
'Then I should certainly ride all the way . 
It's a delightful road , through Whittlesea and over the Plenty Ranges . 
It'll give you some idea of the bush , Mr. Raffles , and you'll see the sources of the water supply of this city , sir . 
You'll see where every drop of it comes from , the pure Yan Yean ! I wish I had time to ride with you . 
'But where can I get a horse ? The doctor thought a moment . 
'I've a mare of my own that's as fat as butter for want of work , said he . 
'It would be a charity to me to sit on her back for a hundred miles or so , and then I should know you'd have no temptation to use that hand . 
'You're far too good ! I protested . 
'You're A. J. Raffles , he said . 
And if ever there was a prettier compliment , or a finer instance of even Colonial hospitality , I can only say , Bunny , that I never heard of either . 
He sipped his whiskey , threw away the stump of his cigarette , and lit another before continuing . 
They little knew the game I'd got on myself , but still less did I know the game I was going to play . 
Now it dipped into a gully and ran through a creek , and all the time the local color was inches thick gum trees galore and parrots all colors of the rainbow . 
In one place a whole forest of gums had been ring barked , and were just as though they had been painted white , without a leaf or a living thing for miles . 
Without thinking , I had a shot at heading him with the doctor's mare , and blocked him just enough to allow a man who came galloping after to do the rest . 
'Thank ye , mister , growled the man , a huge chap in a red checked shirt , with a beard like W. G. Grace , but the very devil of an expression . 
'Been an accident ? said I , reining up . 
'Yes , said he , scowling as though he defied me to ask any more . 
But I stared him out , and forced him to admit that it was blood on the twisted saddle , and after that he became quite tame . 
He told me exactly what had happened . 
As I've said already , Bunny , I wasn't the old stager that I am now in any respect and we parted good enough friends . 
Don't smile , Bunny ! I began by saying I was a child in those days . 
Of course , the short cut was the long way round and it was nearly dark when that unlucky mare and I saw the single street of Yea . 
I was looking for the bank when a fellow in a white suit ran down from the veranda . 
Raffles , said I , laughing as I shook his hand . 
'That all ? I'm relieved , he said . 
Yet there was much more sense in it than in his compliment to me , which was absolutely pointless . 
'I'm afraid you'll find things pretty rough , he resumed , when he had unstrapped my valise , and handed my reins to his man . 
'It's lucky you're a bachelor like myself . 
'Dinner will be ready in a quarter of an hour , said he as we entered . 
'I thought you might like a tub first , and you'll find all ready in the room at the end of the passage . 
Sing out if there's anything you want . 
Your luggage hasn't turned up yet , by the way , but here's a letter that came this morning . 
'Not for me ? 'Yes didn't you expect one ? 'I certainly did not ! 'Well , here it is . 
I could only stand with my own letter in my hands until he had the good taste to leave me by myself . 
How the other man would have laughed ! But I I could not laugh . 
I was in as big a hole as ever . 
What the devil was I to do ? I doubt if I have sufficiently impressed upon you the absolute necessity of my returning to Melbourne in funds . 
As a matter of fact it was less the necessity than my own determination which I can truthfully ascribe as absolute . 
Why should I tell him ? Suppose I left him to find out his mistake . 
would anything be gained ? Bunny , I give you my word that I went in to dinner without a definite intention in my head , or one premeditated lie upon my lips . 
I might do the decent , natural thing , and explain matters without loss of time on the other hand , there was no hurry . 
I had not opened the letter , and could always pretend I had not noticed the initials meanwhile something might turn up . 
I could wait a little and see . 
Tempted I already was , but as yet the temptation was vague , and its very vagueness made me tremble . 
'Bad news , I'm afraid ? said the manager , when at last I sat down at his table . 
'A mere annoyance , I answered I do assure you on the spur of the moment and nothing else . 
But my lie was told my position was taken from that moment onward there was no retreat . 
By implication , without realizing what I was doing , I had already declared myself W. F. Raffles . 
Therefore , W. F. Raffles I would be , in that bank , for that night . 
And the devil teach me how to use my lie ! Again he raised his glass to his lips I had forgotten mine . 
His cigarette case caught the gas light as he handed it to me . 
I shook my head without taking my eyes from his . 
The devil played up , continued Raffles , with a laugh . 
Before I tasted my soup I had decided what to do . 
I had determined to rob that bank instead of going to bed , and to be back in Melbourne for breakfast if the doctor's mare could do it . 
I would tell the old fellow that I had missed my way and been bushed for hours , as I easily might have been , and had never got to Yea at all . 
You are acquiring some experience in such matters , Bunny . 
I ask you , was there ever a better get out ? Last night's was something like it , only never such a certainty . 
You may depend I ascertained this before we had finished dinner . 
, nor was I careful enough to conceal their drift . 
'I should enjoy nothing better , myself besides , yours didn't go through . 
'I wish it had ! I was smart enough to cry . 
'Under the counter eh ? I was ass enough to say . 
So I looked down my nose and shook my head . 
'But the papers said you had ! he cried . 
'The regulation ! I said at length , in the most offensive tone at my command . 
Ewbank stared at me with open eyes and a five barred forehead , then down came his fist on the table . 
But I never saw a man change his mind more openly . 
He got out his best brandy , he made me throw away the cigar I was smoking , and opened a fresh box . 
, and from that moment I laid myself out to attack him on his convivial flank . 
But he wasn't a Rosenthall , Bunny he had a treble seamed , hand sewn head , and could have drunk me under the table ten times over . 
But he was a good chap , Ewbank , and don't you imagine he was at all intemperate . 
Convivial I called him , and I only wish he had been something more . 
It was when he went to fetch the revolver before turning in . 
I kept him out of his bed another twenty minutes , and I knew every inch of the business premises before I shook hands with Ewbank in my room . 
You won't guess what I did with myself for the next hour . 
I undressed and went to bed . 
I haven't told you of half the tight places I was in during a conversation that ran into hours and became dangerously intimate towards the end . 
You can imagine them for yourself , and then picture me spread out on my bed , getting my second wind for the big deed of the night . 
And I have still to hear the concert that I shall enjoy much more . 
The good fellow snored me out of the bank , and was still snoring when I again stood and listened under his open window . 
I have often wondered at the instinctive wisdom of the precaution unconsciously I was acting on what has been one of my guiding principles ever since . 
Pains and patience were required I had to get my saddle without waking the man , and I was not used to catching horses in a horse paddock . 
Then I distrusted the poor mare , and I went back to the stables for a hatful of oats , which I left with her in the clump , hat and all . 
And I had made a very natural point of asking him where he kept , and would recommend me to keep , the keys at night . 
Of course I thought he would take them with him to his room but no such thing he had a dodge worth two of that . 
What it was doesn't much matter , but no outsider would have found those keys in a month of Sundays . 
I , of course , had them in a few seconds , and in a few more I was in the strong room itself . 
I forgot to say that the moon had risen and was letting quite a lot of light into the bank . 
There was no window down there , and , though I could no longer hear old Ewbank snoring , I had not the slightest reason to anticipate disturbance from that quarter . 
I did think of locking myself in while I was at work , but , thank goodness , the iron door had no keyhole on the inside . 
Well , there were heaps of gold in the safe , but I only took what I needed and could comfortably carry , not much more than a couple of hundred altogether . 
Well , you think me too cautious still , but I was insanely cautious then . 
And so it was that , just as I was ready to go , whereas I might have been gone ten minutes , there came a violent knocking at the outer door . 
My mind was made up in an instant , and I was at the top of the strong room stairs , the knocking still continuing , when a second sound drove me back . 
It was the sound of bare feet coming along a corridor . 
My narrow stair was stone , I tumbled down it with little noise , and had only to push open the iron door , for I had left the keys in the safe . 
As I did so I heard a handle turn overhead , and thanked my gods that I had shut every single door behind me . 
You see , old chap , one's caution doesn't always let one in ! 'Who's that knocking ? said Ewbank up above . 
I could not make out the answer , but it sounded to me like the irrelevant supplication of a spent man . 
What I did hear , plainly , was the cocking of the bank revolver before the bolts were shot back . 
'But you have been ! What's done it ? 'Bushrangers . 
'Down the road ? 'This and Whittlesea tied to tree cock shots left me bleed to death . 
The weak voice failed , and the bare feet bolted . 
Now was my time if the poor devil had fainted . 
But I could not be sure , and there I crouched down below in the dark , at the half shut iron door , not less spellbound than imprisoned . 
It was just as well , for Ewbank wasn't gone a minute . 
'Drink this , I heard him say , and , when the other spoke again , his voice was stronger . 
'Now I begin to feel alive . 
'Don't talk ! 'It does me good . 
You don't know what it was , all those miles alone , one an hour at the outside ! I never thought I should come through . 
You must let me tell you in case I don't ! 'Well , have another sip . 
I said bushrangers of course , there are no such things nowadays . 
'You're delirious , he says at last . 
'Who in blazes do you think you are ? 'The new manager . 
'The new manager's in bed and asleep upstairs . 
'When did he arrive ? 'This evening . 
'Call himself Raffles ? '''Yes . 
'Well , I'm damned ! whispered the real man . 
'I thought it was just revenge , but now I see what it was . 
My dear sir , the man upstairs is an imposter if he's upstairs still ! He must be one of the gang . 
I tell you , Bunny , I was glad I'd brought that revolver . 
It looked as though it must be mine against his , muzzle to muzzle . 
'Better have a look down here , first , said the new manager . 
'While he gets through his window ? No , no , he's not down here . 
'It's easy to have a look . 
Bunny , if you ask me what was the most thrilling moment of my infamous career , I say it was that moment . 
The light was coming nearer and I didn't know ! I had to chance it . 
Every shred of light went out , except the streak underneath , and it brightened . 
just as gingerly as though my time had been my own . 
, and thanked my stars the bank was at that end of the township , in which I really hadn't set foot . 
The very last thing I heard was the two managers raising Cain and the coachman . 
And now , Bunny He stood up and stretched himself , with a smile that ended in a yawn . 
The black windows had faded through every shade of indigo they now framed their opposite neighbors , stark and livid in the dawn and the gas seemed turned to nothing in the globes . 
But that's not all ? I cried . 
I'm sorry to say it is , said Raffles apologetically . 
The thing should have ended with an exciting chase , I know , but somehow it didn't . 
But I wasn't to know all that , and I'm bound to say that there was plenty of excitement left for me . 
But I heard nothing not a thing but the mare's bellow and my own heart . 
I'm sorry , Bunny but if ever you write my memoirs , you won't have any difficulty in working up that chase . 
Play those dead gum trees for all they're worth , and let the bullets fly like hail . 
I'll turn round in my saddle to see Ewbank coming up hell to leather in his white suit , and I'll duly paint it red . 
Do it in the third person , and they won't know how it's going to end . 
But I don't know myself , I complained . 
The mare and her color was a coincidence luckily she was only a bay and I fancied the condition of the beast must have told a tale . 
The doctor's manner was certainly different . 
I'm inclined to think he suspected something , though not the right thing . 
I wasn't expecting him , and I fear my appearance may have increased his suspicions . 
I used to have rather a heavy moustache , said Raffles , but I lost it the day after I lost my innocence . 
WILFUL MURDER Of the various robberies in which we were both concerned , it is but the few , I find , that will bear telling at any length . 
Not that the others contained details which even I would hesitate to recount it is , rather , the very absence of untoward incident which renders them useless for my present purpose . 
that the chances of a hitch were invariably reduced to a minimum before we went to work . 
There was a sameness even in our spoil for , of course , only the most precious stones are worth the trouble we took and the risks we ran . 
The former , however , had a sequel that I would rather forget than all our burglaries put together . 
It was the evening after our return from Ireland , and I was waiting at my rooms for Raffles , who had gone off as usual to dispose of the plunder . 
Raffles had his own method of conducting this very vital branch of our business , which I was well content to leave entirely in his hands . 
way , and in reality a rascal as remarkable as Raffles himself . 
Only lately I also had been to the man , but in my proper person . 
So the original sinews and the final spoils of war came in this case from the self same source a circumstance which appealed to us both . 
But these same final spoils I was still to see , and I waited and waited with an impatience that grew upon me with the growing dusk . 
At my open window I had played Sister Ann until the faces in the street below were no longer distinguishable . 
In the dark ! said Raffles , as I dragged him in . 
Why , Bunny , what's wrong ? Nothing now you've come , said I , shutting the door behind him in a fever of relief and anxiety . 
Well ? Well ? What did they fetch ? Five hundred . 
Down ? Got it in my pocket . 
Good man ! I cried . 
You don't know what a stew I've been in . 
I'll switch on the light . 
I've been thinking of you and nothing else for the last hour . 
So you thought something had happened ? said Raffles , leaning back in my chair as he lit a cigarette , and looking much amused . 
What would you say if something had ? Sit tight , my dear chap ! It was nothing of the slightest consequence , and it's all over now . 
A stern chase and a long one , Bunny , but I think I'm well to windward this time . 
And suddenly I saw that his collar was limp , his hair matted , his boots thick with dust . 
The police ? I whispered aghast . 
Oh , dear , no only old Baird . 
Baird ! But wasn't it Baird who took the emeralds ? It was . 
Then how came he to chase you ? My dear fellow , I'll tell you if you give me a chance it's really nothing to get in the least excited about . 
Old Baird has at last spotted that I'm not quite the common cracksman I would have him think me . 
So he's been doing his best to run me to my burrow . 
And you call that nothing ! It would be something if he had succeeded but he has still to do that . 
I admit , however , that he made me sit up for the time being . 
It all comes of going on the job so far from home . 
There was the old brute with the whole thing in his morning paper . 
I did my best to get out of it swore I had a pal who was a real swell but I saw very plainly that I had given myself away . 
He paid my price as though he enjoyed doing it . 
But I FELT him following me when I made tracks though , of course , I didn't turn round to see . 
Why not ? My dear Bunny , it's the very worst thing you can do . 
As long as you look unsuspecting they'll keep their distance , and so long as they keep their distance you stand a chance . 
Once show that you know you're being followed , and it's flight or fight for all you're worth . 
I never even looked round and mind you never do in the same hole . 
However , the coast seemed clear enough , and thus far it was my mere idea that he would follow me there was nothing to show he had . 
I came to you first , because I thought you might be getting anxious . 
Come round with me , and I won't keep you long . 
You're certain you've given him the slip ? I said , as we put on our hats . 
Certain enough but we can make assurance doubly sure , said Raffles , and went to my window , where he stood for a moment or two looking down into the street . 
All right ? I asked him . 
All right , said he and we went downstairs forthwith , and so to the Albany arm in arm . 
But we were both rather silent on our way . 
I , for my part , was wondering what Raffles would do about the studio in Chelsea , whither , at all events , he had been successfully dogged . 
To me the point seemed one of immediate importance , but when I mentioned it he said there was time enough to think about that . 
to a young blood of our acquaintance who happened to be getting himself a bad name . 
Poor Jack Rutter ! said Raffles , with a sigh . 
Nothing's sadder than to see a fellow going to the bad like that . 
Then at last I saw Raffles looking at me with his lazy smile , and I knew that the morose fit was at an end . 
I daresay you wonder what I've been thinking about all this time ? said he . 
He's taken to drink we're as sober as we are solvent . 
His pals are beginning to cut him our difficulty is to keep the pal from the door . 
Enfin , he begs or borrows , which is stealing by halves and we steal outright and are done with it . 
Obviously ours is the more honest course . 
What more , said Raffles . 
Well , murder for one thing . 
Rot ! A matter of opinion , my dear Bunny I don't mean it for rot . 
You'd fill the bill for a few weeks , and then snuff out with a flourish of extra specials you wouldn't rust with a vile repose for seven or fourteen years . 
Good old Raffles ! I chuckled . 
I begin to forgive you for being in bad form at dinner . 
But I was never more earnest in my life . 
Go on ! I mean it . 
You know very well that you wouldn't commit a murder , whatever else you might do . 
They struck home to my slow wits their meaning was no longer in doubt . 
I , who knew the man , read murder in his clenched hands , and murder in his locked lips , but a hundred murders in those hard blue eyes . 
Baird ? I faltered , moistening my lips with my tongue . 
But you said it didn't matter about the room in Chelsea ? I told a lie . 
Anyway you gave him the slip afterwards ! That was another . 
And you never said a word about it ! I wasn't going to spoil your dinner , Bunny , and I wasn't going to let you spoil mine . 
But there he was as large as life , and , of course , he followed us to the Albany . 
Waiter ! Two Scotch whiskeys and sodas . 
I'm off at eleven , Bunny it's the only thing to be done . 
You know where he lives , then ? Yes , out Willesden way , and alone the fellow's a miser among other things . 
I long ago found out all about him . 
Again I looked round the room it was a young man's club , and young men were laughing , chatting , smoking , drinking , on every hand . 
One nodded to me through the smoke . 
Like a machine I nodded to him , and turned back to Raffles with a groan . 
Surely you will give him a chance ! I urged . 
The very sight of your pistol should bring him to terms . 
It wouldn't make him keep them . 
But you might try the effect ? I probably shall . 
Here's a drink for you , Bunny . 
But I must come ! An ugly gleam shot from the steel blue eyes . 
To interfere ? said Raffles . 
Not I. You give me your word ? I do . 
Bunny , if you break it You may shoot me , too ! I most certainly should , said Raffles , solemnly . 
Five minutes later I was waiting for him at the Piccadilly entrance to the Albany . 
I had a reason for remaining outside . 
I would not warn him of his danger but I would avert tragedy at all costs . 
And when no such encounter had taken place , and Raffles and I were fairly on our way to Willesden , that , I think , was still my honest resolve . 
I would not break my word if I could help it , but it was a comfort to feel that I could break it if I liked , on an understood penalty . 
Alas ! I fear my good intentions were tainted with a devouring curiosity , and overlaid by the fascination which goes hand in hand with horror . 
I have a poignant recollection of the hour it took us to reach the house . 
, and we had some minutes to wait for the last train to Willesden . 
, I remember , and Raffles was put out to find it did not go on to Kensal Rise . 
We had to get out at Willesden Junction and walk on through the streets into fairly open country that happened to be quite new to me . 
I could never find the house again . 
I remember , however , that we were on a dark footpath between woods and fields when the clocks began striking twelve . 
Surely , said I , we shall find him in bed and asleep ? I hope we do , said Raffles grimly . 
Then you mean to break in ? What else did you think ? I had not thought about it at all the ultimate crime had monopolized my mind . 
Beside it burglary was a bagatelle , but one to deprecate none the less . 
I saw obvious objections the man was au fait with cracksmen and their ways he would certainly have firearms , and might be the first to use them . 
I could wish nothing better , said Raffles . 
Then it will be man to man , and devil take the worst shot . 
You don't suppose I prefer foul play to fair , do you ? But die he must , by one or the other , or it's a long stretch for you and me . 
Better that than this ! Then stay where you are , my good fellow . 
I told you I didn't want you and this is the house . 
Coming after all ? Rather ! Take care , then the place is all bell wires and springs . 
It's no soft thing , this ! There stand still while I take off the corks . 
The garden was very small and new , with a grass plot still in separate sods , but a quantity of full grown laurels stuck into the raw clay beds . 
Bells in themselves , as Raffles whispered there's nothing else rustles so cunning old beast ! And we gave them a wide berth as we crept across the grass . 
He's gone to bed ! I don't think so , Bunny . 
I believe he's seen us . 
Why ? I saw a light . 
It reappeared like a gold thread under the lintel and vanished for good . 
We heard the stairs creak , creak , and cease , also for good . 
We neither saw nor heard any more , though we stood waiting on the grass till our feet were soaked with the dew . 
I'm going in , said Raffles at last . 
I don't believe he saw us at all . 
We trod gingerly on the path , but the gravel stuck to our wet soles , and grated horribly in a little tiled veranda with a glass door leading within . 
Nor did he dispense with my own assistance , though he may have accepted it as instinctively as it was proffered . 
What's that ? said Raffles , as something crunched beneath his feet on the very threshold . 
A pair of spectacles , I whispered , picking them up . 
I was still fingering the broken lenses and the bent rims when Raffles tripped and almost fell , with a gasping cry that he made no effort to restrain . 
Hush , man , hush ! I entreated under my breath . 
He'll hear you ! For answer his teeth chattered even his and I heard him fumbling with his matches . 
No , Bunny he won't hear us , whispered Raffles , presently and he rose from his knees and lit a gas as the match burnt down . 
A clock ticked noisily on the chimney piece for perhaps a hundred seconds there was no other sound . 
Raffles stood very still , staring down at the dead , as a man might stare into an abyss after striding blindly to its brink . 
His breath came audibly through wide nostrils he made no other sign , and his lips seemed sealed . 
That light ! said I , hoarsely the light we saw under the door ! With a start he turned to me . 
It's true ! I had forgotten it . 
It was in here I saw it first ! He must be upstairs still ! If he is we'll soon rout him out . 
Could we let the murderer go ? My answer was to bound up the creaking stairs and to overhaul Raffles on the landing . 
But three doors presented themselves the first opened into a bedroom with the bed turned down but undisturbed the second room was empty in every sense the third door was locked . 
Raffles lit the landing gas . 
He's in there , said he , cocking his revolver . 
JACK RUTTER ? The words came thick and slow with horror , and in horror I heard myself repeating them , while the cowering figure by the bathroom window rose gradually erect . 
You know you've seen but I'll tell you if you like . 
I've killed a robber that's all . 
I've killed a robber , a usurer , a jackal , a blackmailer , the cleverest and the cruellest villain unhung . 
I'm ready to hang for him . 
I'd kill him again ! And he looked us fiercely in the face , a fine defiance in his dissipated eyes his breast heaving , his jaw like a rock . 
Shall I tell you how it happened ? he went passionately on . 
He's made my life a hell these weeks and months past . 
A perfect hell ! Well , to night I met him in Bond Street . 
He seemed as keen as knives to know , I couldn't think why , and didn't care either , for I saw my chance . 
I said I'd tell him all about you if he'd give me a private interview . 
I had the whip hand of him then . 
I could dictate where the interview should be , and I made him take me home with him , still swearing to tell him all about you when we'd had our talk . 
Well , when we got here I made him give me something to eat , putting him off and off and about ten o'clock I heard the gate shut . 
I waited a bit , and then asked him if he lived alone . 
Of course there was no servant to come . 
I knew that , because I came to see him one night last week , and he interviewed me himself through the gate , but wouldn't open it . 
Well , when I had done yelling , and not a soul had come near us , he was as white as that ceiling . 
I gave him three minutes to write and sign a settlement of all his iniquitous claims against me , or have his brains beaten out over his own carpet . 
He thought a minute , and then went to his desk for pen and paper . 
In two seconds he was round like lightning with a revolver , and I went for him bald headed . 
And then I didn't care . 
I went through his desk looking for my own bills , and was coming away when you turned up . 
I knew to whom the impenitence would appeal when he had heard the story , and I was not mistaken . 
That's all rot , said Raffles , speaking after a pause we sha'n't let you give yourself up . 
You sha'n't stop me ! What would be the good ? The woman saw me it would only be a question of time and I can't face waiting to be taken . 
Think of it waiting for them to touch you on the shoulder ! No , no , no I'll give myself up and get it over . 
His speech was changed he faltered , floundered . 
It was as though a clearer perception of his position had come with the bare idea of escape from it . 
But listen to me , urged Raffles We're here at our peril ourselves . 
We broke in like thieves to enforce redress for a grievance very like your own . 
But don't you see ? We took out a pane did the thing like regular burglars . 
Regular burglars will get the credit of all the rest ! You mean that I sha'n't be suspected ? I do . 
But I don't want to get off scotfree , cried Rutter hysterically . 
But it was in self defence it wasn't murder . 
I must own up and take the consequences . 
I shall go mad if I don't ! His hands twitched his lips quivered the tears were in his eyes . 
Raffles took him roughly by the shoulder . 
I wish I was one ! Rutter sobbed . 
I wish I had his revolver to blow my own brains out . 
O my God , my God ! His knees knocked together the frenzy of reaction was at its height . 
We had to take him downstairs between us , and so through the front door out into the open air . 
All was still outside all but the smothered weeping of the unstrung wretch upon our hands . 
Raffles returned for a moment to the house then all was dark as well . 
The gate opened from within we closed it carefully behind us and so left the starlight shining on broken glass and polished spikes , one and all as we had found them . 
We escaped no need to dwell on our escape . 
Our murderer seemed set upon the scaffold drunk with his deed , he was more trouble than six men drunk with wine . 
Again and again we threatened to leave him to his fate , to wash our hands of him . 
But incredible and unmerited luck was with the three of us . 
But I alone went upstairs the other two proceeded to the Albany , and I saw no more of Raffles for forty eight hours . 
He was not at his rooms when I called in the morning he had left no word . 
When he reappeared the papers were full of the murder and the man who had committed it was on the wide Atlantic , a steerage passenger from Liverpool to New York . 
There was no arguing with him , so Raffles told me either he must make a clean breast of it or flee the country . 
So I rigged him up at the studio , and we took the first train to Liverpool . 
The police in possession there's a warrant out against him already ! The idiots think that window wasn't genuine , and the warrant's out . 
It won't be my fault if it's ever served ! Nor , after all these years , can I think it will be mine . 
NINE POINTS OF THE LAW Well , said Raffles , what do you make of it ? I read the advertisement once more before replying . 
Apply by telegram , Security , London . 
I think , said I , it's the most extraordinary advertisement that ever got into print ! Raffles smiled . 
Not quite all that , Bunny still , extraordinary enough , I grant you . 
Look at the figure ! It is certainly large . 
And the mission and the risk ! Yes the combination is frank , to say the least of it . 
My answer cost me five bob but then I prepaid another . 
You don't mean to say that you've applied ? Rather , said Raffles . 
I want two thousand pounds as much as any man . 
Put your own name ? Well no , Bunny , I didn't . 
In point of fact I smell something interesting and illegal , and you know what a cautious chap I am . 
I signed myself Glasspool , care of Hickey , , Conduit Street that's my tailor , and after sending the wire I went round and told him what to expect . 
He promised to send the reply along the moment it came . 
What do you think ? said he . 
Security's that fellow Addenbrooke , the police court lawyer , and he wants to see me INSTANTER ! Do you know him , then ? Merely by repute . 
I only hope he doesn't know me . 
He's the chap who got six weeks for sailing too close to the wind in the Sutton Wilmer case everybody wondered why he wasn't struck off the rolls . 
Instead of that he's got a first rate practice on the seamy side , and every blackguard with half a case takes it straight to Bennett Addenbrooke . 
He's probably the one man who would have the cheek to put in an advertisement like that , and the one man who could do it without exciting suspicion . 
It's simply in his line but you may be sure there's something shady at the bottom of it . 
The odd thing is that I have long made up my mind to go to Addenbrooke myself if accidents should happen . 
And you're going to him now ? This minute , said Raffles , brushing his hat and so are you . 
But I came in to drag you out to lunch . 
You shall lunch with me when we've seen this fellow . 
Come on , Bunny , and we'll choose your name on the way . 
Mine's Glasspool , and don't you forget it . 
Mr. Glasspool ? exclaimed the lawyer . 
My name , said Raffles , with dry effrontery . 
Not up at Lord's , however ! said the other , slyly . 
So you have bowled me out in my turn ? said he . 
Well , I don't think there's anything to explain . 
I am harder up than I wished to admit under my own name , that's all , and I want that thousand pounds reward . 
Two thousand , said the solicitor . 
And the man who is not above an alias happens to be just the sort of man I want so don't let that worry you , my dear sir . 
The matter , however , is of a strictly private and confidential character . 
And he looked very hard at me . 
Quite so , said Raffles . 
But there was something about a risk ? A certain risk is involved . 
Then surely three heads will be better than two . 
I said I wanted that thousand pounds my friend here wants the other . 
We are both cursedly hard up , and we go into this thing together or not at all . 
Must you have his name too ? I should give him my real one , Bunny . 
Mr. Addenbrooke raised his eyebrows over the card I found for him then he drummed upon it with his finger nail , and his embarrassment expressed itself in a puzzled smile . 
The fact is , I find myself in a difficulty , he confessed at last . 
We are adventurers , said Raffles gravely . 
But you respect the law ? The black eyes gleamed shrewdly . 
We are not professional rogues , if that's what you mean , said Raffles , smiling . 
But on our beam ends we are we would do a good deal for a thousand pounds apiece , eh , Bunny ? Anything , I murmured . 
The solicitor rapped his desk . 
I'll tell you what I want you to do . 
It's illegal , but it's illegality in a good cause that's the risk , and my client is prepared to pay for it . 
He will pay for the attempt , in case of failure the money is as good as yours once you consent to run the risk . 
My client is Sir Bernard Debenham , of Broom Hall , Esher . 
I know his son , I remarked . 
Raffles knew him too , but said nothing , and his eye drooped disapproval in my direction . 
Bennett Addenbrooke turned to me . 
Then , said he , you have the privilege of knowing one of the most complete young black guards about town , and the fons et origo of the whole trouble . 
As you know the son , you may know the father too , at all events by reputation and in that case I needn't tell you that he is a very peculiar man . 
He lives alone in a storehouse of treasures which no eyes but his ever behold . 
Nor can one deny that there has been considerable eccentricity in his treatment of his son . 
For years Sir Bernard paid his debts , and the other day , without the slightest warning , not only refused to do so any more , but absolutely stopped the lad's allowance . 
I got him off all right , and Sir Bernard paid me handsomely on the nail . 
And no more did I hear or see of either of them until one day last week . 
The lawyer drew his chair nearer ours , and leant forward with a hand on either knee . 
On Tuesday of last week I had a telegram from Sir Bernard I was to go to him at once . 
It was a long time before I could get a word out of him . 
Then at last he told me that that frame had contained one of the rarest and most valuable pictures in England in the world an original Velasquez . 
They say there that the picture is practically priceless . 
And young Debenham has sold it for five thousand pounds ! The deuce he has , said Raffles . 
I inquired who had bought it . 
A Queensland legislator of the name of Craggs the Hon . 
John Montagu Craggs , M. L. C. , to give him his full title . 
Not that we knew anything about him on Tuesday last we didn't even know for certain that young Debenham had stolen the picture . 
Indeed , when I hunted him up in town on the Tuesday night , he confessed as much in the most brazen manner imaginable . 
Exactly but not without an action and a public scandal , and that my client declines to face . 
He gives me carte blanche in the matter , and , I verily believe , would throw in a blank check if asked . 
So you put that advertisement in the paper ? said Raffles , in the dry tones he had adopted throughout the interview . 
And you wish us to STEAL this picture ? It was magnificently said the lawyer flushed from his hair to his collar . 
I knew you were not the men ! he groaned . 
I never thought of men of your stamp ! But it's not stealing , he exclaimed heatedly it's recovering stolen property . 
No , no it's an enterprise , an adventure , if you like but not stealing . 
You yourself mentioned the law , murmured Raffles . 
And the risk , I added . 
We pay for that , he said once more . 
But not enough , said Raffles , shaking his head . 
My good sir , consider what it means to us . 
Double your stakes , and I for one am your man . 
Do you think you could bring it off ? We could try . 
But you have no Experience ? Well , hardly ! And you would really run the risk for four thousand pounds ? Raffles looked at me . 
We would , said he , and blow the odds ! It's more than I can ask my client to pay , said Addenbrooke , growing firm . 
Then it's more than you can expect us to risk . 
You are in earnest ? God wot ! Say three thousand if you succeed ! Four is our figure , Mr. Addenbrooke . 
Then I think it should be nothing if you fail . 
Doubles or quits ? cried Raffles . 
Done ! Addenbrooke opened his lips , half rose , then sat back in his chair , and looked long and shrewdly at Raffles never once at me . 
I know your bowling , said he reflectively . 
I don't forget the last Gentleman and Players I was there . 
You're up to every trick every one . 
I'm inclined to think that if anybody could bowl out this old Australian . 
Damme , I believe you're my very man ! The bargain was clinched at the Cafe Royal , where Bennett Addenbrooke insisted on playing host at an extravagant luncheon . 
I can see him now , his eyes in his plate thinking thinking . 
I can see the solicitor glancing from him to me in an apprehension of which I did my best to disabuse him by reassuring looks . 
At the close Raffles apologized for his preoccupation , called for an A. B. C. time table , and announced his intention of catching the . 
You must excuse me , Mr. Addenbrooke , said he , but I have my own idea , and for the moment I should much prefer to keep it to myself . 
It may end in fizzle , so I would rather not speak about it to either of you just yet . 
And as usual Raffles had his way , though Bennett Addenbrooke showed some temper when he was gone , and I myself shared his annoyance to no small extent . 
More I dared not say , even to remove those chill misgivings with which I knew that the lawyer went his way . 
It had been sent off from Waterloo at . 
So Raffles was back in town at an earlier stage of our relations I should have hunted him up then and there , but now I knew better . 
His telegram meant that he had no desire for my society that night or the following forenoon that when he wanted me I should see him soon enough . 
And see him I did , towards one o'clock next day . 
I was watching for him from my window in Mount Street , when he drove up furiously in a hansom , and jumped out without a word to the man . 
I met him next minute at the lift gates , and he fairly pushed me back into my rooms . 
Five minutes , Bunny ! he cried . 
And he tore off his coat before flinging himself into the nearest chair . 
I'm fairly on the rush , he panted having the very devil of a time ! Not a word till I tell you all I've done . 
I settled my plan of campaign yesterday at lunch . 
The first thing was to get in with this man Craggs you can't break into a place like the Metropole , it's got to be done from the inside . 
Problem one , how to get at the fellow . 
Only one sort of pretext would do it must be something to do with this blessed picture , so that I might see where he'd got it and all that . 
But I saw my way before we got up . 
If I could only lay hold of a copy of the picture I might ask leave to go and compare it with the original . 
So down I went to Esher to find out if there was a copy in existence , and was at Broom Hall for one hour and a half yesterday afternoon . 
has allowed a couple to be made since the picture has been in his possession . 
Then you haven't seen Craggs yet ? Seen him and made friends with him , and if possible he's the funnier old cuss of the two but you should study 'em both . 
You should have seen his face when I told him that ! He grinned all round his wicked old head . 
'Did OLD Debenham admit the sale ? says he and when I said he had he chuckled to himself for about five minutes . 
I had the wax in the palm of my hand , and I shall make my duplicate this afternoon . 
Raffles looked at his watch and jumped up saying he had given me a minute too much . 
By the way , he added , you've got to dine with him at the Metropole to night ! I ? Yes don't look so scared . 
Both of us are invited I swore you were dining with me . 
I accepted for us both but I sha'n't be there . 
His clear eye was upon me , bright with meaning and with mischief . 
I implored him to tell me what his meaning was . 
You will dine in his private sitting room , said Raffles it adjoins his bedroom . 
You must keep him sitting as long as possible , Bunny , and talking all the time ! In a flash I saw his plan . 
You're going for the picture while we're at dinner ? I am . 
If he hears you ? He sha'n't . 
But if he does ! And I fairly trembled at the thought . 
If he does , said Raffles , there will be a collision , that's all . 
Revolver would be out of place in the Metropole , but I shall certainly take a life preserver . 
But it's ghastly ! I cried . 
To sit and talk to an utter stranger and to know that you're at work in the next room ! Two thousand apiece , said Raffles , quietly . 
Upon my soul I believe I shall give it away ! Not you , Bunny . 
I know you better than you know yourself . 
He put on his coat and his hat . 
What time have I to be there ? I asked him , with a groan . 
There will be a telegram from me saying I can't turn up . 
He's a terror to talk , you'll have no difficulty in keeping the ball rolling but head him off his picture for all you're worth . 
If he offers to show it to you , say you must go . 
He locked up the case elaborately this afternoon , and there's no earthly reason why he should unlock it again in this hemisphere . 
Where shall I find you when I get away ? I shall be down at Esher . 
I hope to catch the . 
But surely I can see you again this afternoon ? I cried in a ferment , for his hand was on the door . 
I'm not half coached up yet ! I know I shall make a mess of it ! Not you , he said again , but I shall if I waste any more time . 
I've got a deuce of a lot of rushing about to do yet . 
You won't find me at my rooms . 
By Jove ! he won't be able to do us too well if he's got his picture . 
If ! I groaned as he nodded his adieu and he left me limp with apprehension , sick with fear , in a perfectly pitiable condition of pure stage fright . 
I practiced that smile half the afternoon . 
I rehearsed putative parts in hypothetical conversations . 
I dipped in a book on Queensland at the club . 
And at last it was . 
, and I was making my bow to a somewhat elderly man with a small bald head and a retreating brow . 
So you're Mr. Raffles's friend ? said he , overhauling me rather rudely with his light small eyes . 
Seen anything of him ? Expected him early to show me something , but he's never come . 
No more , evidently , had his telegram , and my troubles were beginning early . 
Called out of town ! he grumbled . 
a gleam of suspicion in his crafty little eyes . 
Only in town , said I. I've never been to his place . 
Well , he growled , I suppose it can't be helped . 
Don't know why he couldn't come and have his dinner first . 
Like to see the death bed I'D go to without MY dinner it's a full skin billet , if you ask me . 
Well , must just dine without him , and he'll have to buy his pig in a poke after all . 
Mind touching that bell ? Suppose you know what he came to see me about ? Sorry I sha'n't see him again , for his own sake . 
I liked Raffles took to him amazingly . 
Rank bad form of his mother or his aunt , and I hope she will go and kick the bucket . 
I connect these specimens of his conversation , though they were doubtless detached at the time , and interspersed with remarks of mine here and there . 
They filled the interval until dinner was served , and they gave me an impression of the man which his every subsequent utterance confirmed . 
It was an impression which did away with all remorse for my treacherous presence at his table . 
He was that terrible type , the Silly Cynic , his aim a caustic commentary on all things and all men , his achievement mere vulgar irreverence and unintelligent scorn . 
Even now I cannot feel much compunction for my behavior by the Hon . 
I spilt my wine and laughed at the top of my voice at some coarse sally of my host's . 
And I heard nothing more , though my ears were on the strain . 
But later , to my horror , when the waiter had finally withdrawn , Craggs himself sprang up and rushed to his bedroom without a word . 
I sat like stone till he returned . 
Thought I heard a door go , he said . 
gave me quite a turn . 
Raffles tell you priceless treasure I got in there ? It was the picture at last up to this point I had kept him to Queensland and the making of his pile . 
I tried to get him back there now , but in vain . 
He was reminded of his great ill gotten possession . 
I said that Raffles had just mentioned it , and that set him off . 
With the confidential garrulity of a man who has dined too well , he plunged into his darling topic , and I looked past him at the clock . 
It was only a quarter to ten . 
In common decency I could not go yet . 
But even an epitome of his monologue would be so much weariness suffice it that it ended inevitably in the invitation I had dreaded all the evening . 
But you must see it . 
Isn't it packed up ? I inquired hastily . 
Pray don't trouble , I urged . 
Trouble be hanged ! said he . 
And all at once I saw that to resist him further would be to heap suspicion upon myself against the moment of impending discovery . 
It seemed an interminable age before the key was in the latter . 
Then the ward clicked , and my pulse stood still . 
By Jove ! I cried next instant . 
The canvas was in its place among the maps ! Thought it would knock you , said Craggs , drawing it out and unrolling it for my benefit . 
Why , this one's worth all the pictures in Colony o' Queensland put together . 
Worth fifty thousand pounds , my boy and I got it for five ! He dug me in the ribs , and seemed in the mood for further confidences . 
My appearance checked him , and he rubbed his hands . 
Struck speechless first by my relief , I continued silent from a very different cause . 
A new tangle of emotions tied my tongue . 
The flutter I was in as he closed the case ! For the last time , he went on , as his keys jingled back into his pocket . 
It goes straight into the strong room on board . 
I have no notion how long he talked , or what about . 
Whiskey and soda water became the order of the hour . 
I scarcely touched it , but he drank copiously , and before eleven I left him incoherent . 
And the last train for Esher was the . 
I took a hansom to my rooms . 
I was back at the hotel in thirteen minutes . 
Craggs never moved he was stretched on the sofa fast asleep . 
But not fast enough for me . 
I saturated my handkerchief with the chloroform I had brought , and laid it gently over his mouth . 
Two or three stertorous breaths , and the man was a log . 
I removed the handkerchief I extracted the keys from his pocket . 
In less than five minutes I put them back , after winding the picture about my body beneath my Inverness cape . 
I took some whiskey and soda water before I went . 
Then at last I sat back and lit a cigarette , and the lights of Waterloo reeled out behind . 
Some men were returning from the theatre . 
I can recall their conversation even now . 
They were disappointed with the piece they had seen . 
It was one of the later Savoy operas , and they spoke wistfully of the days of Pinafore and Patience . 
One of them hummed a stave , and there was an argument as to whether the air was out of Patience or the Mikado . 
They all got out at Surbiton , and I was alone with my triumph for a few intoxicating minutes . 
It left me without a conscientious qualm I had but robbed a robber , when all was said . 
And I had done it myself , single handed ipse egomet ! I pictured Raffles , his surprise , his delight . 
He would think a little more of me in future . 
And that future , it should be different . 
In a perfect fever I beheld Broom Hall , with the lower story still lit up , and saw the front door open as I climbed the steps . 
Thought it was you , said Raffles cheerily . 
There's a bed for you . 
Sir Bernard's sitting up to shake your hand . 
His good spirits disappointed me . 
But I knew the man he was one of those who wear their brightest smile in the blackest hour . 
I knew him too well by this time to be deceived . 
I've got it ! I cried in his ear . 
I've got it ! Got what ? he asked me , stepping back . 
The picture ! WHAT ? The picture . 
You had to go without it I saw that . 
So I determined to have it . 
Let's see , said Raffles grimly . 
I threw off my cape and unwound the canvas from about my body . 
While I was doing so an untidy old gentleman made his appearance in the hall , and stood looking on with raised eyebrows . 
Looks pretty fresh for an Old Master , doesn't she ? said Raffles . 
I could only suppose that he was jealous of my success . 
I hardly looked at it myself . 
Well , look now look closely . 
By Jove , I must have faked her better than I thought ! It's a copy ! I cried . 
It's THE copy , he answered . 
It's the copy I've been tearing all over the country to procure . 
It's the copy I faked back and front , so that , on your own showing , it imposed upon Craggs , and might have made him happy for life . 
And you go and rob him of that ! I could not speak . 
How did you manage it ? inquired Sir Bernard Debenham . 
Have you killed him ? asked Raffles sardonically . 
But as I spoke I became calmer , and I finished in mere bitterness , with the remark that another time Raffles might tell me what he meant to do . 
Another time ! he cried instantly . 
Let us hope our friend from Queensland will do as he said , and not open his map case till he gets back there . 
He will find my check awaiting him , and I shall be very much surprised if he troubles any of us again . 
Raffles and I did not speak till I was in the room which had been prepared for me . 
Nor was I anxious to do so then . 
But he followed me and took my hand . 
But it serves me right that you should have gone and undone one of the best things I ever did . 
As for YOUR handiwork , old chap , you won't mind my saying that I didn't think you had it in you . 
In future Don't talk to me about the future ! I cried . 
I hate the whole thing ! I'm going to chuck it up ! So am I , said Raffles , when I've made my pile . 
THE RETURN MATCH I had turned into Piccadilly , one thick evening in the following November , when my guilty heart stood still at the sudden grip of a hand upon my arm . 
I thought I was always thinking that my inevitable hour was come at last . 
It was only Raffles , however , who stood smiling at me through the fog . 
Well met ! said he . 
I've been looking for you at the club . 
I was just on my way there , I returned , with an attempt to hide my tremors . 
It was an ineffectual attempt , as I saw from his broader smile , and by the indulgent shake of his head . 
Come up to my place instead , said he . 
I've something amusing to tell you . 
I made excuses , for his tone foretold the kind of amusement , and it was a kind against which I had successfully set my face for months . 
Be sure I would deny it if I could the very thing I am to tell you would discredit such a boast . 
I made my excuses , as I have said . 
But his arm slid through mine , with his little laugh of light hearted mastery . 
And even while I argued we were on his staircase in the Albany . 
His fire had fallen low . 
He poked and replenished it after lighting the gas . 
As for me , I stood by sullenly in my overcoat until he dragged it off my back . 
What a chap you are ! said Raffles , playfully . 
He held the match to my cigarette he brought me a whiskey and soda . 
Then he went out into the lobby , and , just as I was beginning to feel happy , I heard a bolt shot home . 
It cost me an effort to remain in that chair next moment he was straddling another and gloating over my discomfiture across his folded arms . 
You remember Milchester , Bunny , old boy ? His tone was as bland as mine was grim when I answered that I did . 
We had a little match there that wasn't down on the card . 
Gentlemen and Players , if you recollect ? I don't forget it . 
Seeing that you never got an innings , so to speak , I thought you might . 
Well , the Gentlemen scored pretty freely , but the Players were all caught . 
Poor devils ! Don't be too sure . 
You remember the fellow we saw in the inn ? The florid , over dressed chap who I told you was one of the cleverest thieves in town ? I remember him . 
Crawshay his name turned out to be . 
Well , it was certainly the name he was convicted under , so Crawshay let it be . 
You needn't waste any pity on HIM , old chap he escaped from Dartmoor yesterday afternoon . 
Well done ! Raffles smiled , but his eyebrows had gone up , and his shoulders followed suit . 
You are perfectly right it was very well done indeed . 
I wonder you didn't see it in the paper . 
In a dense fog on the moor yesterday good old Crawshay made a bolt for it , and got away without a scratch under heavy fire . 
All honor to him , I agree a fellow with that much grit deserves his liberty . 
But Crawshay has a good deal more . 
They hunted him all night long couldn't find him for nuts and that was all you missed in the morning papers . 
He unfolded a Pall Mall , which he had brought in with him . 
But listen to this here's an account of the escape , with just the addition which puts the thing on a higher level . 
'The fugitive has been traced to Totnes , where he appears to have committed a peculiarly daring outrage in the early hours of this morning . 
He is reported to have entered the lodgings of the Rev . 
Meanwhile Crawshay had made good his second escape , though it is believed that so distinctive a guise will lead to his recapture during the day . 
What do you think of that , Bunny ? He is certainly a sportsman , said I , reaching for the paper . 
He's more , said Raffles , he's an artist , and I envy him . 
The curate , of all men ! Beautiful beautiful ! But that's not all . 
I saw just now on the board at the club that there's been an outrage on the line near Dawlish . 
Parson found insensible in the six foot way . 
Our friend again ! The telegram doesn't say so , but it's obvious he's simply knocked some other fellow out , changed clothes again , and come on gayly to town . 
He looked over his shoulder towards the lobby before replying . 
I believe , said he , that the beggar's on MY tracks ! And as he spoke he was himself again quietly amused cynically unperturbed characteristically enjoying the situation and my surprise . 
But look here , what do you mean ? said I. What does Crawshay know about you ? Not much but he suspects . 
He saw me once in town with old Baird . 
He must have seen me that day in the pub on the way to Milchester , as well as afterwards on the cricket field . 
As a matter of fact , I know he did , for he wrote and told me so before his trial . 
He wrote to you ! And you never told me ! The old shrug answered the old grievance . 
What was the good , my dear fellow ? It would only have worried you . 
And so on , with certain little proposals for the far future , which I fear may be the very near future indeed ! I'm only surprised he hasn't turned up yet . 
He looked again towards the lobby , which he had left in darkness , with the inner door shut as carefully as the outer one . 
I asked him what he meant to do . 
Let him knock if he gets so far . 
The porter is to say I'm out of town it will be true , too , in another hour or so . 
You're going off to night ? By the . 
I don't say much about my people , Bunny , but I have the best of sisters married to a country parson in the eastern counties . 
They always make me welcome , and let me read the lessons for the sake of getting me to church . 
I'm sorry you won't be there to hear me on Sunday , Bunny . 
I've figured out some of my best schemes in that parish , and I know of no better port in a storm . 
I thought I'd just let you know where I was going , and why , in case you cared to follow my example . 
Let me introduce you , Bunny , said he , to our distinguished colleague , Mr. Reginald Crawshay . 
But I noted nothing consciously at the time . 
I had jumped to my own conclusion , and I turned on Raffles with an oath . 
It's a trick ! I cried . 
It's another of your cursed tricks ! You got him here , and then you got me . 
Really , Bunny ! said Raffles , and turned his shoulder with a shrug . 
Lord love yer , cried Crawshay , E knew nothin' . 
'E didn't expect me 'E'S all right . 
And you're the cool canary , YOU are , he went on to Raffles . 
I knoo you were , but , do me proud , you're one after my own kidney ! And he thrust out a shaggy hand . 
After that , said Raffles , taking it , what am I to say ? But you must have heard my opinion of you . 
I am proud to make your acquaintance . 
How the deuce did you get in ? Never you mind , said Crawshay , loosening his collar let's talk about how I'm to get out . 
Lord love yer , but that's better ! There was a livid ring round his bull neck , that he fingered tenderly . 
Didn't know how much longer I might have to play the gent , he explained didn't know who you'd bring in . 
Drink whiskey and soda ? inquired Raffles , when the convict was in the chair from which I had leapt . 
No , I drink it neat , replied Crawshay , but I talk business first . 
You don't get over me like that , Lor' love yer ! Well , then , what can I do for you ? You know without me tellin' you . 
Clean heels , then that's what I want to show , and I leaves the way to you . 
We're brothers in arms , though I ain't armed this time . 
But brothers we are , and you'll see a brother through . 
Let's put it at that . 
You'll see me through in yer own way . 
I leaves it all to you . 
I hope you take a larger size than them , said he . 
I'd have had a see if you'd given me time . 
I wasn't in long afore you . 
And you won't tell me how you got in ? Wot's the use ? I can't teach YOU nothin' . 
Besides , I want out . 
I want out of London , an' England , an' bloomin' Europe too . 
That's all I want of you , mister . 
I don't arst how YOU go on the job . 
You know w'ere I come from , 'cos I 'eard you say you know w'ere I want to 'ead for , 'cos I've just told yer the details I leaves entirely to you . 
Well , said Raffles , we must see what can be done . 
We must , said Mr. Crawshay , and leaned back comfortably , and began twirling his stubby thumbs . 
Raffles turned to me with a twinkle in his eye but his forehead was scored with thought , and resolve mingled with resignation in the lines of his mouth . 
And he spoke exactly as though he and I were alone in the room . 
You seize the situation , Bunny ? If our friend here is 'copped , to speak his language , he means to 'blow the gaff' on you and me . 
He is considerate enough not to say so in so many words , but it's plain enough , and natural enough for that matter . 
I would do the same in his place . 
We had the bulge before he has it now it's perfectly fair . 
Nor shall he not if I can think of a way of getting him abroad . 
Any way you like , murmured Crawshay , with his eyes shut . 
I leaves the 'ole thing to you . 
But you'll have to wake up and tell us things . 
All right , mister but I'm fair on the rocks for a sleep ! And he stood up , blinking . 
Think you were traced to town ? Must have been . 
And here ? Not in this fog not with any luck . 
Raffles went into the bedroom , lit the gas there , and returned next minute . 
So you got in by the window ? That's about it . 
It was devilish smart of you to know which one it beats me how you brought it off in daylight , fog or no fog ! But let that pass . 
You don't think you were seen ? I don't think it , sir . 
Well , let's hope you are right . 
I shall reconnoitre and soon find out . 
And you'd better come too , Bunny , and have something to eat and talk it over . 
And what's to become o' me ? he cried out with an oath . 
No , you don't , he roared , and at a bound had his back to the door . 
You don't get round me like that , you cuckoos ! Raffles turned to me with a twitch of the shoulders . 
That's the worst of these professors , said he they never will use their heads . 
They see the pegs , and they mean to hit 'em but that's all they do see and mean , and they think we're the same . 
No wonder we licked them last time ! Don't talk through yer neck , snarled the convict . 
Talk out straight , curse you ! Right , said Raffles . 
I'll talk as straight as you like . 
You say you put yourself in my hands you leave it all to me yet you don't trust me an inch ! I know what's to happen if I fail . 
I take this thing on . 
Yet you think I'm going straight out to give you away and make you give me away in my turn . 
You're a fool , Mr. Crawshay , though you have broken Dartmoor you've got to listen to a better man , and obey him . 
I see you through in my own way , or not at all . 
If you won't if you're fool enough not to trust me there's the door . 
Go out and say what you like , and be damned to you ! Crawshay slapped his thigh . 
That's talking ! said he . 
Lord love yer , I know where I am when you talk like that . 
I know a man when he gets his tongue between his teeth you're all right . 
I only hope you gents ain't too stony And he touched his pockets with a rueful face . 
I only went for their togs , said he . 
You never struck two such stony broke cusses in yer life ! That's all right , said Raffles . 
We'll see you through properly . 
Leave it to us , and you sit tight . 
And I'll have a sleep time you're gone . 
Not such a bad chap , that professor , said Raffles on the stairs a real genius in his way , too , though his methods are a little elementary for my taste . 
But technique isn't everything to get out of Dartmoor and into the Albany in the same twenty four hours is a whole that justifies its parts . 
Good Lord ! We had passed a man in the foggy courtyard , and Raffles had nipped my arm . 
Do you think he's on Crawshay's track ? I don't know . 
And before I could remonstrate he had wheeled me round when I found my voice he merely laughed , and whispered that the bold course was the safe one every time . 
But it's madness Not it . 
Ye have the advantage o' me , sirs , said he . 
I hope you're fit again , said my companion . 
My name is Raffles , and we met at Milchester last year . 
Is that a fact ? cried the Scotchman , with quite a start . 
Yes , now I remember your face , and yours too , sir . 
Ay , yon was a bad business , but it ended vera well , an' that's the main thing . 
His native caution had returned to him . 
Yes , it ended splendidly , but for you , said he . 
But what about this escape of the leader of the gang , that fellow Crawshay ? What do you think of that , eh ? I havena the parteeculars , replied the Scot . 
We must see this out , whispered Raffles . 
Nothing more natural than a little curiosity on our part . 
Raffles asked him what was wrong . 
Nothing , sir , said the fellow glibly . 
That was Mackenzie , the detective . 
I've just been speaking to him . 
What's he here for ? Come on , my good fellow we won't give you away , if you've instructions not to tell . 
The man looked quaintly wistful , the temptation of an audience hot upon him a door shut upstairs , and he fell . 
It's like this , he whispered . 
An' that's all I know , sir straight . 
The coppers is up there now , and the tec , and the manager , and they think their gent is about the place somewhere still . 
Least , I reckon that's their idea but who he is , or what they want him for , I dunno . 
Jolly interesting ! said Raffles . 
I'm going up to inquire . 
Come on , Bunny there should be some fun . 
Beg yer pardon , Mr. Raffles , but you won't say nothing about me ? Not I you're a good fellow . 
I won't forget it if this leads to sport . 
Sport ! he whispered as we reached the landing . 
It looks like precious poor sport for you and me , Bunny ! What are you going to do ? I don't know . 
There's no time to think . 
This , to start with . 
And he thundered on the shut door a policeman opened it . 
Raffles strode past him with the air of a chief commissioner , and I followed before the man had recovered from his astonishment . 
The bare boards rang under us in the bedroom we found a knot of officers stooping over the window ledge with a constable's lantern . 
Mackenzie was the first to stand upright , and he greeted us with a glare . 
May I ask what you gentlemen want ? said he . 
We want to lend a hand , said Raffles briskly . 
We lent one once before , and it was my friend here who took over from you the fellow who split on all the rest , and held him tightly . 
I myself can only stop a few minutes , in any case . 
Then ye'll not see much , growled the detective , for he's not up here . 
Constable , go you and stand at the foot o' the stairs , and let no other body come up on any conseederation these gentlemen may be able to help us after all . 
That's kind of you , Mackenzie ! cried Raffles warmly . 
He's a man we want , said Mackenzie . 
He's concealed himself somewhere about these premises , or I'm vera much mistaken . 
D'ye reside in the Albany , Mr. Raffles ? I do . 
Will your rooms be near these ? On the next staircase but one . 
Ye'll just have left them ? Just . 
Been in all the afternoon , likely ? Not all . 
Then I may have to search your rooms , sir . 
I will leave you my key , said Raffles at once . 
I am dining out , but I'll leave it with the officer down below . 
I caught my breath in mute amazement . 
Here the window looked down into the courtyard it was still open and as we gazed out in apparent idleness , Raffles reassured me . 
It's all right , Bunny you do what I tell you and leave the rest to me . 
It's a tight corner , but I don't despair . 
What you've got to do is to stick to these chaps , especially if they search my rooms they mustn't poke about more than necessary , and they won't if you're there . 
But where will you be ? You're never going to leave me to be landed alone ? If I do , it will be to turn up trumps at the right moment . 
Besides , there are such things as windows , and Crawshay's the man to take his risks . 
You must trust me , Bunny you've known me long enough . 
Are you going now ? There's no time to lose . 
Stick to them , old chap don't let them suspect YOU , whatever else you do . 
His hand lay an instant on my shoulder then he left me at the window , and recrossed the room . 
Good luck , Mackenzie only wish I could stay . 
Good by , sir , came in a preoccupied voice , and many thanks . 
Mackenzie was still busy at his window , and I remained at mine , a prey to mingled fear and wrath , for all my knowledge of Raffles and of his infinite resource . 
By this time I felt that I knew more or less what he would do in any given emergency at least I could conjecture a characteristic course of equal cunning and audacity . 
He would return to his rooms , put Crawshay on his guard , and stow him away ? No there were such things as windows . 
Then why was Raffles going to desert us all ? I thought of many things lastly of a cab . 
We're on his track , said a voice behind me . 
He's got up on the leads , sure enough , though how he managed it from yon window is a myst'ry to me . 
We're going to lock up here and try what like it is from the attics . 
So you'd better come with us if you've a mind . 
Better let in all Piccadilly at a crown a head , said he . 
Here , my man , out you go on the roof to make one less , and have your truncheon handy . 
We crowded to the little window , which Mackenzie took care to fill and a minute yielded no sound but the crunch and slither of constabulary boots upon sooty slates . 
What now ? cried Mackenzie . 
Did it hang over a window ? Ask him that ! cried the manager . 
He can see by leaning over the parapet . 
The question was repeated by Mackenzie a pause , then Yes , it did . 
Ask him how many windows along ! shouted the manager in high excitement . 
Six , he says , said Mackenzie next minute and he drew in his head and shoulders . 
I should just like to see those rooms , six windows along . 
Mr. Raffles , announced the manager after a mental calculation . 
Is that a fact ? cried Mackenzie . 
Then we shall have no difficulty at all . 
He's left me his key down below . 
The words had a dry , speculative intonation , which even then I found time to dislike it was as though the coincidence had already struck the Scotchman as something more . 
Where is Mr. Raffles ? asked the manager , as we all filed downstairs . 
He's gone out to his dinner , said Mackenzie . 
Are you sure ? I saw him go , said I. My heart was beating horribly . 
I would not trust myself to speak again . 
A man was lying at full length before the fire on his back , with a little wound in the white forehead , and the blood draining into his eyes . 
And the man was Raffles himself ! Suicide , said Mackenzie calmly . 
No here's the poker looks more like murder . 
He went on his knees and shook his head quite cheerfully . 
I understood ye to say ye saw him go out ? said he sternly . 
I saw that long driving coat of course , I thought he was inside it . 
You'd think anything , some of you damned policemen , said he . 
By the God that made ye , P , if I lose him I'll hound ye from the forrce ! Working face shaking fist a calm man on fire . 
It was a new side of Mackenzie , and one to mark and to digest . 
Next moment he had flounced from our midst . 
Difficult thing to break your own head , said Raffles later infinitely easier to cut your own throat . 
Chloroform's another matter when you've used it on others , you know the dose to a nicety . 
And now we sink or swim with Crawshay , too , said I dolefully . 
Not we ! said Raffles with conviction . 
The incident would have been a godsend to the Press a few weeks later . 
I had let my flat in town , and taken inexpensive quarters at Thames Ditton , on the plea of a disinterested passion for the river . 
, lying back in the boat while I sculled and steered . 
I suppose they pay you pretty well for these , eh ? Not a penny . 
Nonsense , Bunny ! I thought they paid so well ? Give them time , and you'll get your check . 
Oh , no , I sha'n't , said I gloomily . 
I've got to be content with the honor of getting in the editor wrote to say so , in so many words , I added . 
But I gave the gentleman his distinguished name . 
You don't mean to say you've written for payment already ? No it was the last thing I had intended to admit . 
But I had done it . 
The murder was out there was no sense in further concealment . 
I had written for my money because I really needed it if he must know , I was cursedly hard up . 
Raffles nodded as though he knew already . 
I warmed to my woes . 
It was no easy matter to keep your end up as a raw freelance of letters for my part , I was afraid I wrote neither well enough nor ill enough for success . 
I suffered from a persistent ineffectual feeling after style . 
Verse I could manage but it did not pay . 
To personal paragraphs and the baser journalism I could not and I would not stoop . 
Raffles nodded again , this time with a smile that stayed in his eyes as he leant back watching me . 
I knew that he was thinking of other things I had stooped to , and I thought I knew what he was going to say . 
He had said it before so often he was sure to say it again . 
I had my answer ready , but evidently he was tired of asking the same question . 
His lids fell , he took up the paper he had dropped , and I sculled the length of the old red wall of Hampton Court before he spoke again . 
And they gave you nothing for these ! My dear Bunny , they're capital , not only qua verses but for crystallizing your subject and putting it in a nutshell . 
Certainly you've taught ME more about it than I knew before . 
But is it really worth fifty thousand pounds a single pearl ? A hundred , I believe but that wouldn't scan . 
A hundred thousand pounds ! said Raffles , with his eyes shut . 
And again I made certain what was coming , but again I was mistaken . 
If it's worth all that , he cried at last , there would be no getting rid of it at all it's not like a diamond that you can subdivide . 
But I beg your pardon , Bunny . 
My expectation had been half a hope , though I only knew it now . 
But neither did we touch again on what Raffles professed to have forgotten my apostasy , my lapse into virtue , as he had been pleased to call it . 
We were both a little silent , a little constrained , each preoccupied with his own thoughts . 
But as we waited for the train I saw those clear eyes peering at me under the station lamps , and when I met their glance Raffles shook his head . 
You don't look well on it , Bunny , said he . 
I never did believe in this Thames Valley . 
You want a change of air . 
I wished I might get it . 
What you really want is a sea voyage . 
And a winter at St . 
Moritz , or do you recommend Cannes or Cairo ? It's all very well , A. J. , but you forget what I told you about my funds . 
I merely don't want to hurt your feelings . 
But , look here , a sea voyage you shall have . 
I want a change myself , and you shall come with me as my guest . 
We'll spend July in the Mediterranean . 
But you're playing cricket Hang the cricket ! Well , if I thought you meant it Of course I mean it . 
Will you come ? Like a shot if you go . 
And I shook his hand , and waved mine in farewell , with the perfectly good humored conviction that I should hear no more of the matter . 
It was a passing thought , no more , no less . 
I soon wished it were more that week found me wishing myself out of England for good and all . 
I could but subsist on the difference between the rent I paid for my flat and the rent at which I had sublet it , furnished , for the season . 
And the season was near its end , and creditors awaited me in town . 
Was it possible to be entirely honest ? I had run no bills when I had money in my pocket , and the more downright dishonesty seemed to me the less ignoble . 
Arrange to leave Waterloo by North German Lloyd special , he wired , . 
A. M. Monday next will meet you Southampton aboard Uhlan with tickets am writing . 
It was a charming letter . 
I had never seen Italy the privilege of initiation should be his . 
No mistake was greater than to deem it an impossible country for the summer . 
The Bay of Naples was never so divine , and he wrote of faery lands forlorn , as though the poetry sprang unbidden to his pen . 
There was a hint of better reasons . 
I remember that I broke my last sovereign to get a box of Sullivan's cigarettes for Raffles to smoke on the voyage . 
But my heart was as light as my purse on the Monday morning , the fairest morning of an unfair summer , when the special whirled me through the sunshine to the sea . 
A tender awaited us at Southampton . 
Raffles was not on board , nor did I really look for him till we reached the liner's side . 
And then I looked in vain . 
His face was not among the many that fringed the rail his hand was not of the few that waved to friends . 
I climbed aboard in a sudden heaviness . 
I had no ticket , nor the money to pay for one . 
I did not even know the number of my room . 
My heart was in my mouth as I waylaid a steward and asked if a Mr. Raffles was on board . 
Thank heaven he was ! But where ? The man did not know , was plainly on some other errand , and a hunting I must go . 
Why he himself kept in the background , however , I could not conceive , and only sinister reasons would suggest themselves in explanation . 
So much I noted as he rose and quickly turned thereupon I could think of nothing but the swift grimace which preceded a start of well feigned astonishment . 
Why BUNNY ? cried Raffles . 
Where have YOU sprung from ? I stammered something as he pinched my hand . 
I felt myself blushing for us both , and I did not care . 
My address utterly deserted me , and I made no effort to recover it , to carry the thing off . 
All I would do was to mumble such words as Raffles actually put into my mouth , and that I doubt not with a thoroughly evil grace . 
So you saw my name in the list of passengers and came in search of me ? Good old Bunny I say , though , I wish you'd share my cabin . 
I've got a beauty on the promenade deck , but they wouldn't promise to keep me by myself . 
We ought to see about it before they shove in some alien . 
In any case we shall have to get out of this . 
It did not begin pleasantly between Raffles and me . 
On deck he had overborne my stubborn perplexity by dint of a forced though forceful joviality in his cabin the gloves were off . 
You idiot , he snarled , you've given me away again ! How have I given you away ? I ignored the separate insult in his last word . 
Then you should have let me know when you did decide . 
You lay your plans , and never say a word , and expect me to tumble to them by light of nature . 
How was I to know you had anything on ? I had turned the tables with some effect . 
Raffles almost hung his head . 
The fact is , Bunny , I didn't mean you to know . 
If you were afraid of writing , I pursued , it was your business to give me the tip the moment I set foot on board . 
I would have taken it all right . 
I am not so virtuous as all that . 
That , said he , was the very thing I meant to do to lie in wait in my room and get you as you passed . 
But You were better engaged ? Say otherwise . 
The charming Miss Werner ? She is quite charming . 
Most Australian girls are , said I. How did you know she was one ? he cried . 
Brute ! said Raffles , laughing she has no more twang than you have . 
Her people are German , she has been to school in Dresden , and is on her way out alone . 
Confound you ! he said , and , though he was laughing , I thought it was a point at which the subject might be changed . 
It won't send you off in the pilot's boat , Bunny ? Not quite . 
Then you remember the pearl you wrote the I did not wait for him to finish his sentence . 
You've got it ! I cried , my face on fire , for I caught sight of it that moment in the stateroom mirror . 
Not yet , said he but I mean to have it before we get to Naples . 
Is it on board ? Yes . 
But how where who's got it ? A little German officer , a whipper snapper with perpendicular mustaches . 
I saw him in the smoke room . 
That's the chap he's always there . 
Herr Captain Wilhelm von Heumann , if you look in the list . 
Well , he's the special envoy of the emperor , and he's taking the pearl out with him . 
You found this out in Bremen ? No , in Berlin , from a newspaper man I know there . 
I'm ashamed to tell you , Bunny , that I went there on purpose ! I burst out laughing . 
You are doing the very thing I was rather hoping you were going to propose the other day on the river . 
You were HOPING it ? said Raffles , with his eyes wide open . 
Indeed , it was his turn to show surprise , and mine to be much more ashamed than I felt . 
Yes , I answered , I was quite keen on the idea , but I wasn't going to propose it . 
And , while I was about it , I told him much more . 
It was the old story of the thief trying to turn honest man the thing was against nature , and there was an end of it . 
Raffles entirely disagreed with me . 
He shook his head over my conventional view . 
My conclusion he considered absurd . 
But you err in good company , Bunny , for all the cheap moralists who preach the same twaddle old Virgil was the first and worst offender of you all . 
I back myself to climb out of Avernus any day I like , and sooner or later I shall climb out for good . 
I suppose I can't very well turn myself into a Limited Liability Company . 
But I could retire and settle down and live blamelessly ever after . 
I doubt if the skipper himself knows that von Heumann has it on him . 
And he has ? Must have . 
Then we have only him to deal with ? He answered me without a word . 
Something white was fluttering past once more , and Raffles , stepping forth , made the promenaders three . 
This much at least let me have the grace to admit . 
It was no fault of anybody connected with the ship it was no fault of the weather , which was monotonously ideal . 
Not even in my own heart did the reason reside conscience and I were divorced at last , and the decree made absolute . 
With my scruples had fled all fear , and I was ready to revel between bright skies and sparkling sea with the light hearted detachment of Raffles himself . 
It was Raffles himself who prevented me , but not Raffles alone . 
It was Raffles and that Colonial minx on her way home from school . 
What he could see in her but that begs the question . 
I think I have admitted that the young person had points . 
Her eyes , I suppose , were really fine , and certainly the shape of the little brown face was charming , so far as mere contour can charm . 
I admit also more audacity than I cared about , with enviable health , mettle , and vitality . 
, and am therefore the more anxious to describe her without injustice . 
I confess to some little prejudice against her . 
I resented her success with Raffles , of whom , in consequence , I saw less and less each day . 
It is a mean thing to have to confess , but there must have been something not unlike jealousy rankling within me . 
Jealousy there was in another quarter crude , rampant , undignified jealousy . 
It was not as though von Heumann never had his innings . 
You'll make yourself disliked on board ! By von Heumann merely . 
But is that wise when he's the man we've got to diddle ? The wisest thing I ever did . 
To have chummed up with him would have been fatal the common dodge . 
I was consoled , encouraged , almost content . 
I had feared Raffles was neglecting things , and I told him so in a burst . 
Here we were near Gibraltar , and not a word since the Solent . 
He shook his head with a smile . 
Plenty of time , Bunny , plenty of time . 
We can do nothing before we get to Genoa , and that won't be till Sunday night . 
The voyage is still young , and so are we let's make the most of things while we can . 
It was after dinner on the promenade deck , and as Raffles spoke he glanced sharply fore and aft , leaving me next moment with a step full of purpose . 
I retired to the smoking room , to smoke and read in a corner , and to watch von Heumann , who very soon came to drink beer and to sulk in another . 
Few travellers tempt the Red Sea at midsummer the Uhlan was very empty indeed . 
She had , however , but a limited supply of cabins on the promenade deck , and there was just that excuse for my sharing Raffles's room . 
I could have had one to myself downstairs , but I must be up above . 
Raffles had insisted that I should insist on the point . 
So we were together , I think , without suspicion , though also without any object that I could see . 
On the Sunday afternoon I was asleep in my berth , the lower one , when the curtains were shaken by Raffles , who was in his shirt sleeves on the settee . 
Achilles sulking in his bunk ! What else is there to do ? I asked him as I stretched and yawned . 
I noted , however , the good humor of his tone , and did my best to catch it . 
I have found something else , Bunny . 
I daresay ! You misunderstand me . 
The whipper snapper's making his century this afternoon . 
I've had other fish to fry . 
I swung my legs over the side of my berth and sat forward , as he was sitting , all attention . 
The inner door , a grating , was shut and bolted , and curtained like the open porthole . 
We shall be at Genoa before sunset , continued Raffles . 
It's the place where the deed's got to be done . 
So you still mean to do it ? Did I ever say I didn't ? You have said so little either way . 
Advisedly so , my dear Bunny why spoil a pleasure trip by talking unnecessary shop ? But now the time has come . 
It must be done at Genoa or not at all . 
On land ? No , on board , to morrow night . 
To night would do , but to morrow is better , in case of mishap . 
But I don't anticipate any violence . 
Violence is a confession of terrible incompetence . 
I asked him how he proposed to enter von Heumann's state room unobserved , and even through the curtained gloom of ours his face lighted up . 
Climb into my bunk , Bunny , and you shall see . 
I did so , but could see nothing . 
Raffles reached across me and tapped the ventilator , a sort of trapdoor in the wall above his bed , some eighteen inches long and half that height . 
It opened outwards into the ventilating shaft . 
That , said he , is our door to fortune . 
Open it if you like you won't see much , because it doesn't open far but loosening a couple of screws will set that all right . 
The shaft , as you may see , is more or less bottomless you pass under it whenever you go to your bath , and the top is a skylight on the bridge . 
That's why this thing has to be done while we're at Genoa , because they keep no watch on the bridge in port . 
The ventilator opposite ours is von Heumann's . 
It again will only mean a couple of screws , and there's a beam to stand on while you work . 
But if anybody should look up from below ? It's extremely unlikely that anybody will be astir below , so unlikely that we can afford to chance it . 
No , I can't have you there to make sure . 
The great point is that neither of us should be seen from the time we turn in . 
Resist ! He won't get the chance . 
Von Heumann will be past sensation almost as soon as I get my hand through his ventilator . 
Not that Raffles anticipated a tiresome search . 
The pearl would be about von Heumann's person in fact , Raffles knew exactly where and in what he kept it . 
Naturally I asked how he could have come by such knowledge , and his answer led up to a momentary unpleasantness . 
It's a very old story , Bunny . 
I really forget in what Book it comes I'm only sure of the Testament . 
But Samson was the unlucky hero , and one Delilah the heroine . 
And he looked so knowing that I could not be in a moment's doubt as to his meaning . 
So the fair Australian has been playing Delilah ? said I. In a very harmless , innocent sort of way . 
He has even shown Amy the pearl . 
Amy , eh ! and she promptly told you ? Nothing of the kind . 
What makes you think so ? I had the greatest trouble in getting it out of her . 
His tone should have been a sufficient warning to me . 
I had not the tact to take it as such . 
At last I knew the meaning of his furious flirtation , and stood wagging my head and shaking my finger , blinded to his frowns by my own enlightenment . 
Wily worm ! said I. Now I see through it all how dense I've been ! Sure you're not still ? No now I understand what has beaten me all the week . 
I simply couldn't fathom what you saw in that little girl . 
I never dreamt it was part of the game . 
Do you think you would live happily ? I made bold to ask him . 
God knows ! he answered . 
And with that he left me , to marvel at his look and tone , and , more than ever , at the insufficiently exciting cause . 
Everything had been foreseen everything happened as I had been assured everything must . 
Nobody was about below , only the ship's boys on deck , and nobody on the bridge . 
We gloated over it when all was snug . 
We toasted it in whiskey and soda water laid in overnight in view of the great moment . 
But the moment was greater , more triumphant , than our most sanguine dreams . 
, so that we could stand the strictest search and yet take it ashore with us at Naples and this Raffles was doing when I turned in . 
I myself would have landed incontinently , that night , at Genoa and bolted with the spoil he would not hear of it , for a dozen good reasons which will be obvious . 
On the whole I do not think that anything was discovered or suspected before we weighed anchor but I cannot be sure . 
It is difficult to believe that a man could be chloroformed in his sleep and feel no tell tale effects , sniff no suspicious odor , in the morning . 
Nevertheless , von Heumann reappeared as though nothing had happened to him , his German cap over his eyes and his mustaches brushing the peak . 
But Raffles was moody and ill at ease . 
He had not the air of a successful man . 
I could but opine that the impending parting at Naples sat heavily on his spirit . 
He would neither talk to me , nor would he let me go . 
Stop where you are , Bunny . 
I've things to tell you . 
Can you swim ? A bit . 
Ten miles ? Ten ? I burst out laughing . 
Not one ! Why do you ask ? We shall be within a ten miles' swim of the shore most of the day . 
What on earth are you driving at , Raffles ? Nothing only I shall swim for it if the worst comes to the worst . 
I suppose you can't swim under water at all ? I did not answer his question . 
I scarcely heard it cold beads were bursting through my skin . 
Why should the worst come to the worst ? I whispered . 
We aren't found out , are we ? No. Then why speak as though we were ? We may be an old enemy of ours is on board . 
An old enemy ? Mackenzie . 
Never ! The man with the beard who came aboard last . 
Are you sure ? Sure ! I was only sorry to see you didn't recognize him too . 
I looked up and down the deck , but the old man was nowhere to be seen . 
That's the worst of it , said Raffles . 
I saw him go into the captain's cabin twenty minutes ago . 
But what can have brought him ? I cried miserably . 
Can it be a coincidence is it somebody else he's after ? Raffles shook his head . 
Then you think he's after you ? I've been afraid of it for some weeks . 
Yet there you stand ! What am I to do ? I don't want to swim for it before I must . 
I begin to wish I'd taken your advice , Bunny , and left the ship at Genoa . 
But I've not the smallest doubt that Mac was watching both ship and station till the last moment . 
That's why he ran it so fine . 
He took a cigarette and handed me the case , but I shook my head impatiently . 
I still don't understand , said I. Why should he be after you ? He couldn't come all this way about a jewel which was perfectly safe for all he knew . 
What's your own theory ? Simply that he's been on my track for some time , probably ever since friend Crawshay slipped clean through his fingers last November . 
There have been other indications . 
I am really not unprepared for this . 
But it can only be pure suspicion . 
He found out I'd gone abroad , and looked for a motive he found out about von Heumann and his mission , and there was his motive cut and dried . 
Great chance to nab me on a new job altogether . 
But he won't do it , Bunny mark my words , he'll search the ship and search us all , when the loss is known but he'll search in vain . 
There was something sinister in silence under such a loss , and the silence was sustained for hours during which Mackenzie never reappeared . 
But he was abroad during the luncheon hour he was in our cabin ! I had left my book in Raffles's berth , and in taking it after lunch I touched the quilt . 
It was warm from the recent pressure of flesh and blood , and on an instinct I sprang to the ventilator as I opened it the ventilator opposite was closed with a snap . 
All right ! Let him find the pearl . 
Have you dumped it overboard ? That's a question I shan't condescend to answer . 
He turned on his heel , and at subsequent intervals I saw him making the most of his last afternoon with the inevitable Miss Werner . 
I remember that she looked both cool and smart in quite a simple affair of brown holland , which toned well with her complexion , and was cleverly relieved with touches of scarlet . 
I quite admired her that afternoon , for her eyes were really very good , and so were her teeth , yet I had never admired her more directly in my own despite . 
So at last I gave it up . 
And I saw him next in the captain's cabin . 
They had summoned him first he had gone in smiling and smiling I found him when they summoned me . 
The state room was spacious , as befitted that of a commander . 
Von Heumann completed the party , his fingers busy with his mustache . 
This is a great joke ! he cried . 
You will recognize that loyal and patriotic voice , said Raffles . 
Mon , 'tis our auld acquaintance Mackenzie , o' Scoteland Yarrd an' Scoteland itsel' ! Dat is enough , cried the captain . 
Have you submid to be searge , or do I vorce you ? What you will , said Raffles , but it will do you no harm to give us fair play first . 
You accuse us of breaking into Captain von Heumann's state room during the small hours of this morning , and abstracting from it this confounded pearl . 
Well , I can prove that I was in my own room all night long , and I have no doubt my friend can prove the same . 
Most certainly I can , said I indignantly . 
The ship's boys can bear witness to that . 
Mackenzie laughed , and shook his head at his reflection in the polished mahogany . 
That was ver clever , said he , and like enough it would ha' served ye had I not stepped aboard . 
But I've just had a look at they ventilators , and I think I know how ye worrked it . 
Anyway , captain , it makes no matter . 
All right , said Raffles savagely to the mate . 
You can let go now . 
I won't try it again . 
Raffles raised his eyebrows as he perused the document his mouth hardened , but suddenly relaxed and it was with a smile and a shrug that he returned the paper . 
Wull that do for ye ? inquired Mackenzie . 
I congratulate you , Mackenzie it's a strong hand , at any rate . 
Two burglaries and the Melrose necklace , Bunny ! And he turned to me with a rueful smile . 
An' all easy to prove , said the Scotchman , pocketing the warrant . 
I've one o' these for you , he added , nodding to me , only not such a long one . 
Surely not ! exclaimed Raffles . 
You shall have it this minute if you guarantee no public indignity on board ! That I'll see to , said Mackenzie , as long as you behave yourselves . 
There now , where is't ? On the table under your nose . 
Ye're humbuggin' us , said Mackenzie . 
What's the use ? I'm doing nothing of the sort , laughed Raffles . 
Where's the harm ? It's here , joke apart ? On that table , by all my gods . 
Mackenzie opened the cigarette cases and shook each particular cigarette . 
Thereupon Raffles prayed to be allowed to smoke one , and , when his prayer was heard , observed that the pearl had been on the table much longer than the cigarettes . 
Mackenzie promptly caught up the Colt and opened the chamber in the butt . 
Not there , not there , said Raffles but you're getting hot . 
Mackenzie emptied them into his palm , and shook each one at his ear without result . 
After that you will perhaps show me such little consideration as is in your power . 
All I ask is that you do me one favor first . 
That shall debend on wad der vafour has been . 
Captain , I've done a worse thing aboard your ship than any of you know . 
He was not slow to follow it , however , with a vigorous protest against the proposed farewell but he was overruled , and the masterful prisoner had his way . 
, with their revolvers behind their backs . 
As we were moving from the cabin , in a body , he stopped and gripped my hand . 
So I 've let you in at last , Bunny at last and after all ! If you knew how sorry I am . 
But you won't get much I don't see why you should get anything at all . 
Engaged ? I could not believe it , cannot to this day . 
Suddenly an instant and the thing was done a thing I have never known whether to admire or to detest . 
He caught her he kissed her before us all then flung her from him so that she almost fell . 
It was that action which foretold the next . 
The mate sprang after him , and I sprang after the mate . 
Raffles was on the rail , but only just . 
Hold him , Bunny ! he cried . 
But one thing I must set down , believe it who will one more thing only and I am done . 
It was into a second class cabin , on the starboard side , that I was promptly thrust in irons , and the door locked upon me as though I were another Raffles . 
Meanwhile a boat was lowered , and the sea scoured to no purpose , as is doubtless on record elsewhere . 
But either the setting sun , flashing over the waves , must have blinded all eyes , or else mine were victims of a strange illusion . 
For the boat was back , the screw throbbing , and the prisoner peering through his porthole across the sunlit waters that he believed had closed for ever over his comrade's head . 
The bugle had blown for dinner it may well be that all save myself had ceased to strain an eye . 
And now I lost what I had found , now it rose , now sank , and now I gave it up utterly . 
And night fell before I knew whether it was a human head or not . 
