Project Gutenberg Edition of The Ambassadors , by Henry James . 
Prepared by Richard D. Hathaway hathawar matrix . 
Live all you can it's a mistake not to . 
It doesn't so much matter what you do in particular so long as you have your life . 
If you haven't had that what HAVE you had ? I'm too old too old at any rate for what I see . 
What one loses one loses make no mistake about that . 
Still , we have the illusion of freedom therefore don't , like me to day , be without the memory of that illusion . 
I was either , at the right time , too stupid or too intelligent to have it , and now I'm a case of reaction against the mistake . 
Do what you like so long as you don't make it . 
For it WAS a mistake . 
Nothing can exceed the closeness with which the whole fits again into its germ . 
That had been given me bodily , as usual , by the spoken word , for I was to take the image over exactly as I happened to have met it . 
I could even remember no occasion on which , so confronted , I had found it of a livelier interest to take stock , in this fashion , of suggested wealth . 
Then truly , I hold , one's theme may be said to shine , and that of The Ambassadors , I confess , wore this glow for me from beginning to end . 
The comparative case meanwhile would serve it was only on the minor scale that I had treated myself even to comparative cases . 
No dreadful old pursuit of the hidden slave with bloodhounds and the rag of association can ever , for excitement , I judge , have bettered it at its best . 
on the strength of any respectable hint . 
In which truth resides surely much of the interest of that admirable mixture for salutary application which we know as art . 
The process , that of the expression , the literal squeezing out , of value is another affair with which the happy luck of mere finding has little to do . 
The subject is found , and if the problem is then transferred to the ground of what to do with it the field opens out for any amount of doing . 
This is precisely the infusion that , as I submit , completes the strong mixture . 
It is on the other hand the part of the business that can least be likened to the chase with horn and hound . 
It's all a sedentary part involves as much ciphering , of sorts , as would merit the highest salary paid to a chief accountant . 
He sows his seed at the risk of too thick a crop wherefore yet again , like the gentlemen who audit ledgers , he must keep his head at any price . 
It depends so on what one means by that equivocal quantity . 
There is the story of one's hero , and then , thanks to the intimate connexion of things , the story of one's story itself . 
One hadn't been noting tones all one's life without recognising when one heard it the voice of the false position . 
The dear man in the Paris garden was then admirably and unmistakeably IN one which was no small point gained what next accordingly concerned us was the determination of THIS identity . 
One could only go by probabilities , but there was the advantage that the most general of the probabilities were virtual certainties . 
What the position would infallibly be , and why , on his hands , it had turned false these inductive steps could only be as rapid as they were distinct . 
I saw in a moment that , should this development proceed both with force and logic , my story would leave nothing to be desired . 
as to which what makes for it , with whatever headlong energy , may be said to pale before the energy with which it simply makes for itself . 
It probably does so , in truth , even when we most flatter ourselves that we negotiate with it by treaty . 
Never , positively , none the less , as the links multiplied , had I felt less stupid than for the determination of poor Strether's errand and for the apprehension of his issue . 
As the case completed itself he had in fact , from a good way behind , to catch up with them , breathless and a little flurried , as he best could . 
Yet here it was , at the same time , just here , that a shade for a moment fell across the scene . 
There was in fine the TRIVIAL association , one of the vulgarest in the world but which give me pause no longer , I think , simply because its vulgarity is so advertised . 
Another surrounding scene would have done as well for our show could it have represented a place in which Strether's errand was likely to lie and his crisis to await him . 
Strether's appointed stage , in fine , could be but Chad's most luckily selected one . 
I might , however , express every grain of it that there would be room for on condition of contriving a splendid particular economy . 
It enjoys the costly sacrifice and rejoices thereby in the very odour of difficulty even as ogres , with their Fee faw fum ! rejoice in the smell of the blood of Englishmen . 
As always since the charm never fails the retracing of the process from point to point brings back the old illusion . 
The old intentions bloom again and flower in spite of all the blossoms they were to have dropped by the way . 
as for the dreadful purpose of giving his creator no end to tell about him before which rigorous mission the serenest of creators might well have quailed . 
, I had simply nothing to do . 
The answer to which is , I think , that one makes that surrender only if one is prepared NOT to make certain precious discriminations . 
She is an enrolled , a direct , aid to lucidity she is in fine , to tear off her mask , the most unmitigated and abandoned of ficelles . 
is discriminated preparation , is the fusion and synthesis of picture . 
Since , however , all art is EXPRESSION , and is thereby vividness , one was to find the door open here to any amount of delightful dissimulation . 
Infinitely suggestive such an observation as this last on the whole delightful head , where representation is concerned , of possible variety , of effective expressional change and contrast . 
The book , however , critically viewed , is touchingly full of these disguised and repaired losses , these insidious recoveries , these intensely redemptive consistencies . 
Mixed with everything was the apprehension , already , on Strether's part , that it would , at best , throughout , prove the note of Europe in quite a sufficient degree . 
They formed a qualified draught of Europe , an afternoon and an evening on the banks of the Mersey , but such as it was he took his potion at least undiluted . 
He was burdened , poor Strether it had better be confessed at the outset with the oddity of a double consciousness . 
There was detachment in his zeal and curiosity in his indifference . 
Recognition at any rate appeared to prevail on her own side as well which would only have added to the mystery . 
Oh yes , he replied , my very well known friend . 
He's to meet me here , coming up from Malvern , and I supposed he'd already have arrived . 
But he doesn't come till later , and I'm relieved not to have kept him . 
Do you know him ? Strether wound up . 
I've met him at Milrose where I used sometimes , a good while ago , to stay I had friends there who were friends of his , and I've been at his house . 
I won't answer for it that he would know me , Strether's new acquaintance pursued but I should be delighted to see him . 
Perhaps , she added , I shall for I'm staying over . 
She paused while our friend took in these things , and it was as if a good deal of talk had already passed . 
They even vaguely smiled at it , and Strether presently observed that Mr. Waymarsh would , no doubt , be easily to be seen . 
This , however , appeared to affect the lady as if she might have advanced too far . 
She appeared to have no reserves about anything . 
Oh , she said , he won't care ! and she immediately thereupon remarked that she believed Strether knew the Munsters the Munsters being the people he had seen her with at Liverpool . 
Her qualification of the mentioned connexion had rather removed than placed a dish , and there seemed nothing else to serve . 
They moved along the hall together , and Strether's companion threw off that the hotel had the advantage of a garden . 
He wanted to look at the town , and they would forthwith look together . 
It was almost as if she had been in possession and received him as a guest . 
Her acquaintance with the place presented her in a manner as a hostess , and Strether had a rueful glance for the lady in the glass cage . 
It was as if this personage had seen herself instantly superseded . 
He was about to go up to London , so that hat and necktie might wait . 
She affected him as almost insolently young but an easily carried five and thirty could still do that . 
They had taken hold of him straightway measuring him up and down as if they knew how as if he were human material they had already in some sort handled . 
So far as he did suspect it he was on the contrary , after a short shake of his consciousness , as pleasantly passive as might be . 
He really had a sort of sense of what she knew . 
She knew even intimate things about him that he hadn't yet told her and perhaps never would . 
He wasn't unaware that he had told her rather remarkably many for the time , but these were not the real ones . 
Some of the real ones , however , precisely , were what she knew . 
They were to pass again through the hall of the inn to get into the street , and it was here she presently checked him with a question . 
Have you looked up my name ? He could only stop with a laugh . 
Have you looked up mine ? Oh dear , yes as soon as you left me . 
I went to the office and asked . 
Hadn't YOU better do the same ? He wondered . 
Find out who you are ? after the uplifted young woman there has seen us thus scrape acquaintance ! She laughed on her side now at the shade of alarm in his amusement . 
It was positively droll to him that he should already have Maria Gostrey , whoever she was of which he hadn't really the least idea in a place of safe keeping . 
He had somehow an assurance that he should carefully preserve the little token he had just tucked in . 
He gazed with unseeing lingering eyes as he followed some of the implications of his act , asking himself if he really felt admonished to qualify it as disloyal . 
It was prompt , it was possibly even premature , and there was little doubt of the expression of face the sight of it would have produced in a certain person . 
But if it was wrong why then he had better not have come out at all . 
At this , poor man , had he already and even before meeting Waymarsh arrived . 
He had believed he had a limit , but the limit had been transcended within thirty six hours . 
It hadn't been Europe at Liverpool no not even in the dreadful delightful impressive streets the night before to the extent his present companion made it so . 
I like , she observed , your name . 
Oh , he answered , you won't have heard of it ! Yet he had his reasons for not being sure but that she perhaps might . 
Ah it was but too visible ! She read it over again as one who had never seen it . 
Lewis Lambert Strether' she sounded it almost as freely as for any stranger . 
She repeated however that she liked it particularly the Lewis Lambert . 
It's the name of a novel of Balzac's . 
Oh I know that ! said Strether . 
But the novel's an awfully bad one . 
I know that too , Strether smiled . 
To which he added with an irrelevance that was only superficial I come from Woollett Massachusetts . 
It made her for some reason the irrelevance or whatever laugh . 
Balzac had described many cities , but hadn't described Woollett Massachusetts . 
You say that , she returned , as if you wanted one immediately to know the worst . 
Oh I think it's a thing , he said , that you must already have made out . 
I feel it so that I certainly must look it , speak it , and , as people say there , 'act' it . 
It sticks out of me , and you knew surely for yourself as soon as you looked at me . 
The worst , you mean ? Well , the fact of where I come from . 
There at any rate it IS so that you won't be able , if anything happens , to say I've not been straight with you . 
I see and Miss Gostrey looked really interested in the point he had made . 
Why that you should find me too hopeless . 
With which they walked on again together while she answered , as they went , that the most hopeless of her countryfolk were in general precisely those she liked best . 
Two or three , however , in truth , we should perhaps regret to lose . 
Too deep almost for words was the delight of these things to Strether yet as deeply mixed with it were certain images of his inward picture . 
It was with Waymarsh he should have shared it . 
and he was now accordingly taking from him something that was his due . 
He looked repeatedly at his watch , and when he had done so for the fifth time Miss Gostrey took him up . 
You're doing something that you think not right . 
It so touched the place that he quite changed colour and his laugh grew almost awkward . 
Am I enjoying it as much as THAT ? You're not enjoying it , I think , so much as you ought . 
I see he appeared thoughtfully to agree . 
Oh it's not your privilege ! It has nothing to do with me . 
It has to do with yourself . 
Ah there you are ! he laughed . 
It's the failure of Woollett . 
The failure to enjoy , Miss Gostrey explained , is what I mean . 
Woollett isn't sure it ought to enjoy . 
If it were it would . 
But it hasn't , poor thing , Strether continued , any one to show it how . 
Miss Gostrey lingered near him , full of an air , to which she more and more justified her right , of understanding the effect of things . 
And she added I wish you WOULD let me show you how ! Oh I'm afraid of you ! he cheerfully pleaded . 
She kept on him a moment , through her glasses and through his own , a certain pleasant pointedness . 
Ah no , you're not ! You're not in the least , thank goodness ! If you had been we shouldn't so soon have found ourselves here together . 
I think , she comfortably concluded , you trust me . 
I think I do ! but that's exactly what I'm afraid of . 
I shouldn't mind if I didn't . 
It's falling thus in twenty minutes so utterly into your hands . 
I dare say , Strether continued , it's a sort of thing you're thoroughly familiar with but nothing more extraordinary has ever happened to me . 
She watched him with all her kindness . 
That means simply that you've recognised me which IS rather beautiful and rare . 
You see what I am . 
As on this , however , he protested , with a good humoured headshake , a resignation of any such claim , she had a moment of explanation . 
If you'll only come on further as you HAVE come you'll at any rate make out . 
My own fate has been too many for me , and I've succumbed to it . 
I'm a general guide to 'Europe , don't you know ? I wait for people l put them through . 
I pick them up I set them down . 
I'm a sort of superior 'courier maid . 
I'm a companion at large . 
I take people , as I've told you , about . 
I never sought it it has come to me . 
It has been my fate , and one's fate one accepts . 
It's a dreadful thing to have to say , in so wicked a world , but I verily believe that , such as you see me , there's nothing I don't know . 
I know all the shops and the prices but I know worse things still . 
I bear on my back the huge load of our national consciousness , or , in other words for it comes to that of our nation itself . 
Of what is our nation composed but of the men and women individually on my shoulders ? I don't do it , you know , for any particular advantage . 
I don't do it , for instance some people do , you know for money . 
Strether could only listen and wonder and weigh his chance . 
And yet , affected as you are then to so many of your clients , you can scarcely be said to do it for love . 
How do we reward you ? She had her own hesitation , but You don't ! she finally returned , setting him again in motion . 
He looked at the hour without seeing it , and then , on something again said by his companion , had another pause . 
You're really in terror of him . 
He smiled a smile that he almost felt to be sickly . 
Now you can see why I'm afraid of you . 
Because I've such illuminations ? Why they're all for your help ! It's what I told you , she added , just now . 
You feel as if this were wrong . 
He fell back once more , settling himself against the parapet as if to hear more about it . 
Then get me out ! Her face fairly brightened for the joy of the appeal , but , as if it were a question of immediate action , she visibly considered . 
Out of waiting for him ? of seeing him at all ? Oh no not that , said poor Strether , looking grave . 
I've got to wait for him and I want very much to see him . 
But out of the terror . 
You did put your finger on it a few minutes ago . 
It's general , but it avails itself of particular occasions . 
That's what it's doing for me now . 
I'm always considering something else something else , I mean , than the thing of the moment . 
The obsession of the other thing is the terror . 
I'm considering at present for instance something else than YOU . 
She listened with charming earnestness . 
Oh you oughtn't to do that ! It's what I admit . 
Is it really an 'order' from you ? that I shall take the job ? WILL you give yourself up ? Poor Strether heaved his sigh . 
If I only could ! But that's the deuce of it that I never can . 
She wasn't , however , discouraged . 
But you want to at least ? Oh unspeakably ! Ah then , if you'll try ! and she took over the job , as she had called it , on the spot . 
It was at all events perhaps lucky that they arrived in sufficiently separate fashion within range of the hotel door . 
The young lady they had left in the glass cage watched as if she had come to await them on the threshold . 
It was already upon him even at that distance Mr. Waymarsh was for HIS part joyless . 
This added to his own sense of having gone far with her gave him an early illustration of a much shorter course . 
There was a certitude he immediately grasped a conviction that Waymarsh would quite fail , as it were , and on whatever degree of acquaintances to profit by her . 
On leaving him he repaired straight to his own room , but with the prompt effect of feeling the compass of that chamber resented by his condition . 
There he enjoyed at once the first consequence of their reunion . 
A place was too small for him after it that had seemed large enough before . 
It was late not till Strether had spent an hour upstairs with him that this subject consented to betake himself to doubtful rest . 
found the smoking room not quite what he wanted , and yet bed what he wanted less . 
His most frequent form of words was that he knew himself , and they were applied on this occasion to his certainty of not sleeping . 
He knew himself well enough to know that he should have a night of prowling unless he should succeed , as a preliminary , in getting prodigiously tired . 
With his long legs extended and his large back much bent , he nursed alternately , for an almost incredible time , his elbows and his beard . 
He really appeared at present to insist on that by just perching there with the gas in his eyes . 
This of itself somehow conveyed the futility of single rectifications in a multiform failure . 
He met you as if you had knocked and he had bidden you enter . 
Strether , who hadn't seen him for so long an interval , apprehended him now with a freshness of taste , and had perhaps never done him such ideal justice . 
The head was bigger , the eyes finer , than they need have been for the career but that only meant , after all , that the career was itself expressive . 
Alas nothing so little resembled floating as the rigour with which , on the edge of his bed , he hugged his posture of prolonged impermanence . 
It suggested to his comrade something that always , when kept up , worried him a person established in a railway coach with a forward inclination . 
It represented the angle at which poor Waymarsh was to sit through the ordeal of Europe . 
It was a province in which mystery reigned and as to which Waymarsh had never spoken the informing word . 
He WAS a success , Waymarsh , in spite of overwork , or prostration , of sensible shrinkage , of his wife's letters and of his not liking Europe . 
Strether would have reckoned his own career less futile had he been able to put into it anything so handsome as so much fine silence . 
One might one's self easily have left Mrs. Waymarsh and one would assuredly have paid one's tribute to the ideal in covering with that attitude the derision of having been left by her . 
Her husband had held his tongue and had made a large income and these were in especial the achievements as to which Strether envied him . 
I don't know as I quite see what you require it for . 
You don't appear sick to speak of . 
It was of Europe Waymarsh thus finally spoke . 
Well , said Strether , who fell as much as possible into step , I guess I don't FEEL sick now that I've started . 
But I had pretty well run down before I did start . 
Waymarsh raised his melancholy look . 
He had long since made a mental distinction though never in truth daring to betray it between the voice of Milrose and the voice even of Woollett . 
It was the former he felt , that was most in the real tradition . 
There had been occasions in his past when the sound of it had reduced him to temporary confusion , and the present , for some reason , suddenly became such another . 
It was nevertheless no light matter that the very effect of his confusion should be to make him again prevaricate . 
That description hardly does justice to a man to whom it has done such a lot of good to see YOU . 
I mean , his friend presently continued , that your appearance isn't as bad as I've seen it it compares favourably with what it was when I last noticed it . 
I'm afraid I have , Strether laughed one does fill out some with all one takes in , and I've taken in , I dare say , more than I've natural room for . 
I was dog tired when I sailed . 
It had the oddest sound of cheerfulness . 
I was dog tired , his companion returned , when I arrived , and it's this wild hunt for rest that takes all the life out of me . 
There ain't a country I've seen over here that DOES seem my kind . 
Oh I don't say but what there are plenty of pretty places and remarkable old things but the trouble is that I don't seem to feel anywhere in tune . 
That's one of the reasons why I suppose I've gained so little . 
I haven't had the first sign of that lift I was led to expect . 
With this he broke out more earnestly . 
Look here I want to go back . 
His eyes were all attached to Strether's now , for he was one of the men who fully face you when they talk of themselves . 
This enabled his friend to look at him hard and immediately to appear to the highest advantage in his eyes by doing so . 
That's a genial thing to say to a fellow who has come out on purpose to meet you ! Nothing could have been finer , on this , than Waymarsh's sombre glow . 
HAVE you come out on purpose ? Well very largely . 
I thought from the way you wrote there was something back of it . 
Back of my desire to be with you ? Back of your prostration . 
Strether , with a smile made more dim by a certain consciousness , shook his head . 
There are all the causes of it ! And no particular cause that seemed most to drive you ? Our friend could at last conscientiously answer . 
There IS a matter that has had much to do with my coming out . 
Too private to mention ? No , not too private for YOU . 
Well , said Waymarsh , who had waited again , I MAY lose my mind over here , but I don't know as I've done so yet . 
Oh you shall have the whole thing . 
Waymarsh seemed to sit stiffer and to hold his elbows tighter . 
Why not if I can't sleep ? Because , my dear man , I CAN ! Then where's your prostration ? Just in that that I can put in eight hours . 
Is she really after you ? Is that what's behind ? Strether felt an uneasiness at the direction taken by his companion's insight , but he played a little at uncertainty . 
Behind my coming out ? Behind your prostration or whatever . 
It's generally felt , you know , that she follows you up pretty close . 
Strether's candour was never very far off . 
Oh it has occurred to you that I'm literally running away from Mrs. Newsome ? Well , I haven't KNOWN but what you are . 
You're a very attractive man , Strether . 
You've seen for yourself , said Waymarsh what that lady downstairs makes of it . 
Unless indeed , he rambled on with an effect between the ironic and the anxious , it's you who are after HER . 
IS Mrs. Newsome OVER here ? He spoke as with a droll dread of her . 
It made his friend though rather dimly smile . 
Dear no she's safe , thank goodness as I think I more and more feel at home . 
She thought of coming , but she gave it up . 
I've come in a manner instead of her and come to that extent for you're right in your inference on her business . 
So you see there IS plenty of connexion . 
Waymarsh continued to see at least all there was . 
Involving accordingly the particular one I've referred to ? Strether took another turn about the room , giving a twitch to his companion's blanket and finally gaining the door . 
His feeling was that of a nurse who had earned personal rest by having made everything straight . 
Involving more things than I can think of breaking ground on now . 
But don't be afraid you shall have them from me you'll probably find yourself having quite as much of them as you can do with . 
I shall if we keep together very much depend on your impression of some of them . 
Waymarsh's acknowledgement of this tribute was characteristically indirect . 
But HE at least could be more definite . 
I'm going to take you right down to London . 
Oh I've been down to London ! Waymarsh more softly moaned . 
I've no use , Strether , for anything down there . 
Well , said Strether , good humouredly , I guess you've some use for me . 
So I've got to go ? Oh you've got to go further yet . 
Tell you ? Why what you've got on hand . 
Why it's such a matter as that even if I positively wanted I shouldn't be able to keep it from you . 
What does that mean then but that your trip is just FOR her ? For Mrs. Newsome ? Oh it certainly is , as I say . 
Then why do you also say it's for me ? Strether , in impatience , violently played with his latch . 
It's for both of you . 
Waymarsh at last turned over with a groan . 
Well , I won't marry you ! Neither , when it comes to that ! But the visitor had already laughed and escaped . 
She was surely not to break away at the very moment she had created a want . 
They want to go back . 
And you want them to go ! Strether gaily concluded . 
I always want them to go , and I send them as fast as I can . 
Oh I know you take them to Liverpool . 
Any port will serve in a storm . 
I'm with all my other functions an agent for repatriation . 
I want to re people our stricken country . 
What will become of it else ? I want to discourage others . 
Other people ? Other countries . 
I want to encourage our own . 
Not to come ? Why then do you 'meet' them since it doesn't appear to be to stop them ? Oh that they shouldn't come is as yet too much to ask . 
What I attend to is that they come quickly and return still more so . 
I meet them to help it to be over as soon as possible , and though I don't stop them I've my way of putting them through . 
That's my little system and , if you want to know , said Maria Gostrey , it's my real secret , my innermost mission and use . 
I only seem , you see , to beguile and approve but I've thought it all out and I'm working all the while underground . 
I can't perhaps quite give you my formula , but I think that practically I succeed . 
I send you back spent . 
Passed through my hands We don't turn up again ? The further she went the further he always saw himself able to follow . 
I don't want your formula I feel quite enough , as I hinted yesterday , your abysses . 
If that's how you're arranging so subtly to send me I thank you for the warning . 
Do you call it subtly ? It's a plain poor tale . 
Besides , you're a special case . 
She had made him breakfast like a gentleman , and it was nothing , she forcibly asserted , to what she would yet make him do . 
The three strolled and stared and gossiped , or at least the two did the case really yielding for their comrade , if analysed , but the element of stricken silence . 
This element indeed affected Strether as charged with audible rumblings , but he was conscious of the care of taking it explicitly as a sign of pleasant peace . 
He wouldn't appeal too much , for that provoked stiffness yet he wouldn't be too freely tacit , for that suggested giving up . 
When he met Strether's eye on such occasions he looked guilty and furtive , fell the next minute into some attitude of retractation . 
Our friend couldn't show him the right things for fear of provoking some total renouncement , and was tempted even to show him the wrong in order to make him differ with triumph . 
Primrose's fireside , was influenced by the high flights of the visitors from London . 
The smallest things so arrested and amused him that he repeatedly almost apologised brought up afresh in explanation his plea of a previous grind . 
It was by the oddest , the least admissible of laws demoralising him now and the way it boldly took was to make him want more wants . 
These first walks in Europe were in fact a kind of finely lurid intimation of what one might find at the end of that process . 
He pierced with his sombre detachment the plate glass of ironmongers and saddlers , while Strether flaunted an affinity with the dealers in stamped letter paper and in smart neckties . 
Strether was in fact recurrently shameless in the presence of the tailors , though it was just over the heads of the tailors that his countryman most loftily looked . 
This gave Miss Gostrey a grasped opportunity to back up Waymarsh at his expense . 
Miss Gostrey was such a woman of fashion as could make without a symptom of vulgar blinking an appointment for the Burlington Arcade . 
There was light for observation , however , in an incident that occurred just before they turned back to luncheon . 
There seemed moreover a direct connexion between some such inference and a sudden grim dash taken by Waymarsh to the opposite side . 
This movement was startlingly sudden , and his companions at first supposed him to have espied , to be pursuing , the glimpse of an acquaintance . 
The fact had somehow the note of a demonstration , and it left each of the others to show a face almost of fear . 
But Miss Gostrey broke into a laugh . 
What's the matter with him ? Well , said Strether , he can't stand it . 
But can't stand what ? Anything . 
Then how will that jeweller help him ? Strether seemed to make it out , from their position , between the interstices of arrayed watches , of close hung dangling gewgaws . 
Ah that's just what if he buys anything I'm afraid of that I shall see something rather dreadful . 
Strether studied the finer appearances . 
Then don't you think we ought to follow him ? Not for worlds . 
We exchange a long scared look , we publicly tremble . 
The thing is , you see , we 'realise . 
He has struck for freedom . 
She wondered but she laughed . 
Ah what a price to pay ! And I was preparing some for him so cheap . 
No , no , Strether went on , frankly amused now don't call it that the kind of freedom you deal in is dear . 
Then as to justify himself Am I not in MY way trying it ? It's this . 
Being here , you mean , with me ? '' Yes , and talking to you as I do . 
It's magnificent ! said Miss Gostrey to make an end of it . 
And you should hear , she added , the ease I take and I above all intend to take with Mr. Waymarsh . 
About ME ? Ah that's no equivalent . 
The equivalent would be Waymarsh's himself serving me up his remorseless analysis of me . 
And he'll never do that he was sadly clear . 
He'll never remorselessly analyse me . 
He quite held her with the authority of this . 
He'll never say a word to you about me . 
She took it in she did it justice yet after an instant her reason , her restless irony , disposed of it . 
For what do you take people , that they're able to say words about anything , able remorselessly to analyse ? There are not many like you and me . 
It will be only because he's too stupid . 
It stirred in her friend a sceptical echo which was at the same time the protest of the faith of years . 
Waymarsh stupid ? Compared with you . 
Strether had still his eyes on the jeweller's front , and he waited a moment to answer . 
He's a success of a kind that I haven't approached . 
Do you mean he has made money ? He makes it to my belief . 
And I , said Strether , though with a back quite as bent , have never made anything . 
I'm a perfectly equipped failure . 
She only , however , confirmed his assertion . 
Thank goodness you're a failure it's why I so distinguish you ! Anything else to day is too hideous . 
Look about you look at the successes . 
Would you BE one , on your honour ? Look , moreover , she continued , at me . 
For a little accordingly their eyes met . 
I see , Strether returned . 
You too are out of it . 
The superiority you discern in me , she concurred , announces my futility . 
If you knew , she sighed , the dreams of my youth ! But our realities are what has brought us together . 
We're beaten brothers in arms . 
He smiled at her kindly enough , but he shook his head . 
It doesn't alter the fact that you're expensive . 
You've cost me already ! But he had hung fire . 
Cost you what ? Well , my past in one great lump . 
But no matter , he laughed I'll pay with my last penny . 
Her attention had unfortunately now been engaged by their comrade's return , for Waymarsh met their view as he came out of his shop . 
I hope he hasn't paid , she said , with HIS last though I'm convinced he has been splendid , and has been so for you . 
Ah no not that ! Then for me ? Quite as little . 
Waymarsh was by this time near enough to show signs his friend could read , though he seemed to look almost carefully at nothing in particular . 
Then for himself ? For nobody . 
But what has freedom to do with it ? Strether's answer was indirect . 
To be as good as you and me . 
She had had time to take in their companion's face and with it , as such things were easy for her , she took in all . 
But better ! If Waymarsh was sombre he was also indeed almost sublime . 
He told them nothing , left his absence unexplained , and though they were convinced he had made some extraordinary purchase they were never to learn its nature . 
He only glowered grandly at the tops of the old gables . 
It was Strether who eventually contended that it did make him better than they . 
But by that time Miss Gostrey was convinced that she didn't want to be better than Strether . 
Questions as to what he had seen had on him indeed an effect only less favourable than questions as to what he hadn't . 
The manner in which Mrs. Newsome's throat WAS encircled suddenly represented for him , in an alien order , almost as many things as the manner in which Miss Gostrey's was . 
He had his association indeed with the ruche , but it was rather imperfectly romantic . 
All sorts of things in fact now seemed to come over him , comparatively few of which his chronicler can hope for space to mention . 
It came over him for instance that Miss Gostrey looked perhaps like Mary Stuart Lambert Strether had a candour of fancy which could rest for an instant gratified in such an antithesis . 
It came over him that never before no , literally never had a lady dined with him at a public place before going to the play . 
However he viewed his job it was types he should have to tackle . 
These made two exactly , even with the individual varieties . 
Strether felt himself on the whole not afraid of the yellow frock , but he was vaguely anxious over a certain kindness into which he found himself drifting for its victim . 
He hadn't come out , he reminded himself , to be too kind , or indeed to be kind at all , to Chadwick Newsome . 
would have likewise to be . 
This young man furthermore would have been much more easy to handle at least for HIM than appeared probable in respect to Chad . 
I seem with this freedom , you see , to have guessed Mr. Chad . 
You've accepted the mission of separating him from the wicked woman . 
Are you quite sure she's very bad for him ? Something in his manner showed it as quite pulling him up . 
Wouldn't YOU be ? Oh I don't know . 
One never does does one ? beforehand . 
One can only judge on the facts . 
Yours are quite new to me I'm really not in the least , as you see , in possession of them so it will be awfully interesting to have them from you . 
If you're satisfied , that's all that's required . 
I mean if you're sure you ARE sure sure it won't do . 
That he should lead such a life ? Rather ! Oh but I don't know , you see , about his life you've not told me about his life . 
She may be charming his life ! Charming ? Strether stared before him . 
She's base , venal out of the streets . 
And HE ? Chad , wretched boy ? Of what type and temper is he ? she went on as Strether had lapsed . 
It was as if for a moment he had been going to say more and had then controlled himself . 
That was scarce what she wished . 
Do you like him ? This time he was prompt . 
No. How CAN I ? Do you mean because of your being so saddled with him ? I'm thinking of his mother , said Strether after a moment . 
He has darkened her admirable life . 
He has worried her half to death . 
Oh that's of course odious . 
She had a pause as if for renewed emphasis of this truth , but it ended on another note . 
Is her life very admirable ? Extraordinarily . 
There was so much in the tone that Miss Gostrey had to devote another pause to the appreciation of it . 
But has he only his mother ? He has also a sister , older than himself and married and they're both remarkably fine women . 
Very handsome , you mean ? This promptitude almost , as he might have thought , this precipitation , gave him a brief drop but he came up again . 
Mrs. Newsome , I think , is handsome , though she's not of course , with a son of twenty eight and a daughter of thirty , in her very first youth . 
She married , however , extremely young . 
And is wonderful , Miss Gostrey asked , for her age ? Strether seemed to feel with a certain disquiet the pressure of it . 
I don't say she's wonderful . 
Or rather , he went on the next moment , I do say it . 
It's exactly what she IS wonderful . 
But I wasn't thinking of her appearance , he explained striking as that doubtless is . 
I was thinking well , of many other things . 
He seemed to look at these as if to mention some of them then took , pulling himself up , another turn . 
About Mrs. Pocock people may differ . 
Is that the daughter's name 'Pocock' ? That's the daughter's name , Strether sturdily confessed . 
And people may differ , you mean , about HER beauty ? About everything . 
But YOU admire her ? He gave his friend a glance as to show how he could bear this I'm perhaps a little afraid of her . 
Oh , said Miss Gostrey , I see her from here ! You may say then I see very fast and very far , but I've already shown you I do . 
The young man and the two ladies , she went on , are at any rate all the family ? Quite all . 
His father has been dead ten years , and there's no brother , nor any other sister . 
They'd do , said Strether , anything in the world for him . 
And you'd do anything in the world for THEM ? He shifted again she had made it perhaps just a shade too affirmative for his nerves . 
Oh I don't know ! You'd do at any rate this , and the 'anything' they'd do is represented by their MAKING you do it . 
Ah they couldn't have come either of them . 
They're very busy people and Mrs. Newsome in particular has a large full life . 
She's moreover highly nervous and not at all strong . 
You mean she's an American invalid ? He carefully distinguished . 
Consent to be an American in order to be an invalid ? No , said Strether , the other way round . 
She's at any rate delicate sensitive high strung . 
She puts so much of herself into everything Ah Maria knew these things ! That she has nothing left for anything else ? Of course she hasn't . 
To whom do you say it ? High strung ? Don't I spend my life , for them , jamming down the pedal ? I see moreover how it has told on you . 
Strether took this more lightly . 
Oh I jam down the pedal too ! Well , she lucidly returned , we must from this moment bear on it together with all our might . 
Have they money ? But it was as if , while her energetic image still held him , her enquiry fell short . 
Mrs. Newsome , he wished further to explain , hasn't moreover your courage on the question of contact . 
If she had come it would have been to see the person herself . 
The woman ? Ah but that's courage . 
No it's exaltation , which is a very different thing . 
Courage , he , however , accommodatingly threw out , is what YOU have . 
You say that only to patch me up to cover the nudity of my want of exaltation . 
I've neither the one nor the other . 
Strether looked amused at her notion of the simple , but he adopted her formula . 
Everything's too much for her . 
Ah then such a service as this of yours Is more for her than anything else ? Yes far more . 
But so long as it isn't too much for ME ! Her condition doesn't matter ? Surely not we leave her condition out we take it , that is , for granted . 
I see it , her condition , as behind and beneath you yet at the same time I see it as bearing you up . 
Oh it does bear me up ! Strether laughed . 
Well then as yours bears ME nothing more's needed . 
With which she put again her question . 
Has Mrs. Newsome money ? This time he heeded . 
That's the root of the evil . 
There's money , to very large amounts , in the concern . 
Chad has had the free use of a great deal . 
But if he'll pull himself together and come home , all the same , he'll find his account in it . 
She had listened with all her interest . 
And I hope to goodness you'll find yours ! He'll take up his definite material reward , said Strether without acknowledgement of this . 
He's at the parting of the ways . 
He can come into the business now he can't come later . 
Is there a business ? Lord , yes a big brave bouncing business . 
A great shop ? Yes a workshop a great production , a great industry . 
The concern's a manufacture and a manufacture that , if it's only properly looked after , may well be on the way to become a monopoly . 
It's a little thing they make make better , it appears , than other people can , or than other people , at any rate , do . 
It's a place in itself ? Well , quite a number of buildings almost a little industrial colony . 
But above all it's a thing . 
And what IS the article produced ? Strether looked about him as in slight reluctance to say then the curtain , which he saw about to rise , came to his aid . 
I'll tell you next time . 
His postponements , however , made her wonder wonder if the article referred to were anything bad . 
And she explained that she meant improper or ridiculous or wrong . 
But Strether , so far as that went , could satisfy her . 
Unmentionable ? Oh no , we constantly talk of it we are quite familiar and brazen about it . 
Right here therefore , with everything about us so grand ! In short he shrank . 
It's a false note ? Sadly . 
But surely not vulgarer than this . 
Then on his wondering as she herself had done Than everything about us . 
She seemed a trifle irritated . 
What do you take this for ? Why for comparatively divine ! This dreadful London theatre ? It's impossible , if you really want to know . 
'Rather ridiculous' ? Clothes pins ? Saleratus ? Shoe polish ? It brought him round . 
No you don't even 'burn . 
I don't think , you know , you'll guess it . 
How then can I judge how vulgar it is ? You'll judge when I do tell you and he persuaded her to patience . 
But it may even now frankly be mentioned that he in the sequel never WAS to tell her . 
In ignorance she could humour her fancy , and that proved a useful freedom . 
She could treat the little nameless object as indeed unnameable she could make their abstention enormously definite . 
There might indeed have been for Strether the portent of this in what she next said . 
There's appreciation in that I mean as to the allowance his mother has hitherto made him . 
The source of his grandfather's wealth and thereby of his own share in it was not particularly noble . 
And what source was it ? Strether cast about . 
In business ? Infamies ? He was an old swindler ? Oh , he said with more emphasis than spirit , I shan't describe HIM nor narrate his exploits . 
Miss Gostrey kept it up . 
Better ? Her friend for a moment hung fire . 
No. Her comment on his hesitation was scarce the less marked for being mute . 
NOW don't you see , she went on , why the boy doesn't come home ? He's drowning his shame . 
His shame ? What shame ? What shame ? Comment donc ? THE shame . 
She showed how she understood . 
I thought she was just what you COULD talk of . 
You DON'T trust me , Miss Gostrey after a moment declared . 
She really seemed to have her . 
She IS , in spite of everything , handsome . 
This at least enlivened him . 
What do you mean by everything ? Well , I mean YOU . 
With which she had one of her swift changes of ground . 
You say the concern needs looking after but doesn't Mrs. Newsome look after it ? So far as possible . 
She's wonderfully able , but it's not her affair , and her life's a good deal overcharged . 
She has many , many things . 
And you also ? Oh yes I've many too , if you will . 
But what I mean is , Miss Gostrey amended , do you also look after the business ? Oh no , I don't touch the business . 
Only everything else ? Well , yes some things . 
As for instance ? Strether obligingly thought . 
The Review ? you have a Review ? Certainly . 
Woollett has a Review which Mrs. Newsome , for the most part , magnificently pays for and which I , not at all magnificently , edit . 
My name's on the cover , Strether pursued , and I'm really rather disappointed and hurt that you seem never to have heard of it . 
She neglected for a moment this grievance . 
And what kind of a Review is it ? His serenity was now completely restored . 
Do you mean in political colour as they say here in thought ? No I mean the cover's green of the most lovely shade . 
And with Mrs. Newsome's name on it too ? He waited a little . 
Oh as for that you must judge if she peeps out . 
She's behind the whole thing but she's of a delicacy and a discretion ! Miss Gostrey took it all . 
She must be rather a swell . 
Oh yes , she's rather a swell ! A Woollett swell bon ! I like the idea of a Woollett swell . 
And you must be rather one too , to be so mixed up with her . 
Ah no , said Strether , that's not the way it works . 
But she had already taken him up . 
The way it works you needn't tell me ! is of course that you efface yourself . 
With my name on the cover ? he lucidly objected . 
Ah but you don't put it on for yourself . 
I beg your pardon that's exactly what I do put it on for . 
It's exactly the thing that I'm reduced to doing for myself . 
On this she looked at him as to say many things , but what she at last simply said was She likes to see it there . 
You're the bigger swell of the two , she immediately continued , because you think you're not one . 
She thinks she IS one . 
However , Miss Gostrey added , she thinks you're one too . 
You're at all events the biggest she can get hold of . 
She embroidered , she abounded . 
Therefore close with her ! Close with her ? he asked as she seemed to hang poised . 
Before you lose your chance . 
Their eyes met over it . 
What do you mean by closing ? And what do I mean by your chance ? I'll tell you when you tell me all the things YOU don't . 
Is it her GREATEST fad ? she briskly pursued . 
The Review ? He seemed to wonder how he could best describe it . 
This resulted however but in a sketch . 
It's her tribute to the ideal . 
You go in for tremendous things . 
We go in for the unpopular side that is so far as we dare . 
And how far DO you dare ? Well , she very far . 
I don't begin to have her faith . 
She provides , said Strether , three fourths of that . 
And she provides , as I've confided to you , ALL the money . 
It evoked somehow a vision of gold that held for a little Miss Gostrey's eyes , and she looked as if she heard the bright dollars shovelled in . 
I hope then you make a good thing I NEVER made a good thing ! he at once returned . 
Don't you call it a good thing to be loved ? Oh we're not loved . 
We're only just sweetly ignored . 
You don't trust me ! she once more repeated . 
You don't sell ? Oh I'm glad of THAT ! After which however , and before he could protest , she was off again . 
She's just a MORAL swell . 
He accepted gaily enough the definition . 
Yes I really think that describes her . 
But it had for his friend the oddest connexion . 
How does she do her hair ? He laughed out . 
Beautifully ! Ah that doesn't tell me . 
However , it doesn't matter I know . 
It's tremendously neat a real reproach quite remarkably thick and without , as yet , a single strand of white . 
There ! He blushed for her realism , but gaped at her truth . 
What else SHOULD I be ? It was as the very deuce I pounced on you . 
With which , on a single sweep of her wing , she resumed . 
You assist her to expiate which is rather hard when you've yourself not sinned . 
It's she who hasn't sinned , Strether replied . 
Ah , Miss Gostrey cynically laughed , what a picture of HER ! Have you robbed the widow and the orphan ? I've sinned enough , said Strether . 
Enough for whom ? Enough for what ? Well , to be where I am . 
They made out from the lobby that the night had turned to rain yet Miss Gostrey let her friend know that he wasn't to see her home . 
This was her great time , she intimated , for pulling herself together . 
Here Strether's comrade resumed that free handling of the subject to which his own imagination of it already owed so much . 
Does your young friend in Paris like you ? It had almost , after the interval , startled him . 
Oh I hope not ! Why SHOULD he ? Why shouldn't he ? Miss Gostrey asked . 
That you're coming down on him need have nothing to do with it . 
You see more in it , he presently returned , than I. Of course I see you in it . 
Well then you see more in 'me' ! Than you see in yourself ? Very likely . 
What I was thinking of , she explained , is the possible particular effect on him of his milieu . 
Oh his milieu ! Strether really felt he could imagine it better now than three hours before . 
Do you mean it can only have been so lowering ? Why that's my very starting point . 
Yes , but you start so far back . 
What do his letters say ? Nothing . 
He practically ignores us or spares us . 
But there are all the same , she went on , two quite distinct things that given the wonderful place he's in may have happened to him . 
One is that he may have got brutalised . 
The other is that he may have got refined . 
Strether stared this WAS a novelty . 
Refined ? Oh , she said quietly , there ARE refinements . 
The way of it made him , after looking at her , break into a laugh . 
YOU have them ! As one of the signs , she continued in the same tone , they constitute perhaps the worst . 
He thought it over and his gravity returned . 
Is it a refinement not to answer his mother's letters ? She appeared to have a scruple , but she brought it out . 
Oh I should say the greatest of all . 
This appeared to strike her . 
How do you know it ? Oh I'm sure of it . 
I feel it in my bones . 
Feel he CAN do it ? Feel that he believes he can . 
It may come to the same thing ! Strether laughed . 
She wouldn't , however , have this . 
Nothing for you will ever come to the same thing as anything else . 
And she understood what she meant , it seemed , sufficiently to go straight on . 
You say that if he does break he'll come in for things at home ? Quite positively . 
He'll come in for a particular chance a chance that any properly constituted young man would jump at . 
His mother has kept it for him , holding out against strong pressure , till the last possible moment . 
That's what I mean by his chance . 
If he misses it he comes in , as you say , for nothing . 
And to see that he doesn't miss it is , in a word , what I've come out for . 
She let it all sink in . 
What you've come out for then is simply to render him an immense service . 
Well , poor Strether was willing to take it so . 
He stands , as they say , if you succeed with him , to gain Oh a lot of advantages . 
Strether had them clearly at his fingers' ends . 
By which you mean of course a lot of money . 
I'm acting with a sense for him of other things too . 
Consideration and comfort and security the general safety of being anchored by a strong chain . 
He wants , as I see him , to be protected . 
Protected I mean from life . 
Ah voila ! her thought fitted with a click . 
What you REALLY want to get him home for is to marry him . 
Well , that's about the size of it . 
Of course , she said , it's rudimentary . 
But to any one in particular ? He smiled at this , looking a little more conscious . 
For a moment again their eyes met . 
You put everything in ! He acknowledged the tribute by telling her . 
She wondered then gravely , even exquisitely , as if to make the oddity also fit His own niece ? Oh you must yourself find a name for the relation . 
His brother in law's sister . 
Mrs. Jim's sister in law . 
It seemed to have on Miss Gostrey a certain hardening effect . 
And who in the world's Mrs. Jim ? Chad's sister who was Sarah Newsome . 
She's married didn't I mention it ? to Jim Pocock . 
Ah yes , she tacitly replied but he had mentioned things ! Then , however , with all the sound it could have , Who in the world's Jim Pocock ? she asked . 
That's the only way we distinguish people at Woollett , he good humoredly explained . 
And is it a great distinction being Sally's husband ? He considered . 
I think there can be scarcely a greater unless it may become one , in the future , to be Chad's wife . 
Then how do they distinguish YOU ? They DON'T except , as I've told you , by the green cover . 
Once more their eyes met on it , and she held him an instant . 
The green cover won't nor will ANY cover avail you with ME . 
You're of a depth of duplicity ! Still , she could in her own large grasp of the real condone it . 
Is Mamie a great parti ? Oh the greatest we have our prettiest brightest girl . 
Miss Gostrey seemed to fix the poor child . 
I know what they CAN be . 
And with money ? Not perhaps with a great deal of that but with so much of everything else that we don't miss it . 
We DON'T miss money much , you know , Strether added , in general , in America , in pretty girls . 
No , she conceded but I know also what you do sometimes miss . 
I supposed that at Woollett you wanted them what shall I call it ? blameless . 
I mean your young men for your pretty girls . 
So did I ! Strether confessed . 
But you strike there a curious fact the fact that Woollett too accommodates itself to the spirit of the age and the increasing mildness of manners . 
Everything changes , and I hold that our situation precisely marks a date . 
We SHOULD prefer them blameless , but we have to make the best of them as we find them . 
Since the spirit of the age and the increasing mildness send them so much more to Paris You've to take them back as they come . 
Bon ! Once more she embraced it all , but she had a moment of thought . 
Oh but with Mamie's aid . 
Unless indeed you mean , he added , that I shall effect so much more with yours ! It made her at last again look at him . 
You'll do more as you're so much better than all of us put together . 
I think I'm only better since I've known YOU ! Strether bravely returned . 
But this left them a few minutes more , which she was clearly in no mood not to use . 
You've spoken to me of what by your success Mr. Chad stands to gain . 
But you've not spoken to me of what you do . 
Oh I've nothing more to gain , said Strether very simply . 
She took it as even quite too simple . 
You mean you've got it all 'down' ? You've been paid in advance ? Ah don't talk about payment ! he groaned . 
Something in the tone of it pulled her up , but as their messenger still delayed she had another chance and she put it in another way . 
What by failure do you stand to lose ? He still , however , wouldn't have it . 
Nothing ! he exclaimed , and on the messenger's at this instant reappearing he was able to sink the subject in their responsive advance . 
You won't take me with you ? Not for the world . 
In the rain ? I like the rain , said Strether . 
Good night ! She kept him a moment , while his hand was on the door , by not answering after which she answered by repeating her question . 
What do you stand to lose ? Why the question now affected him as other he couldn't have said he could only this time meet it otherwise . 
And to that end I'm yours Ah , dear lady ! he kindly breathed . 
Till death ! said Maria Gostrey . 
They had hastened to the Rue Scribe on the morrow of their arrival , but Strether had not then found the letters the hope of which prompted this errand . 
His idea was to begin business immediately , and it did much for him the rest of his day that the beginning of business awaited him . 
He did happen to have a scruple a scruple about taking no definite step till he should get letters but this reasoning carried it off . 
Waymarsh , who had had letters yesterday , had had them again to day , and Waymarsh suggested in this particular no controlled impulses . 
The last one he was at all events likely to be observed to struggle with was clearly that of bringing to a premature close any visit to the Rue Scribe . 
Strether had left him there yesterday he wanted to see the papers , and he had spent , by what his friend could make out , a succession of hours with the papers . 
This restlessness became therefore his temporary law he knew he should recognise as soon as see it the best place of all for settling down with his chief correspondent . 
In the garden of the Tuileries he had lingered , on two or three spots , to look it was as if the wonderful Paris spring had stayed him as he roamed . 
But his drift was , for reasons , to the other side , and it floated him unspent up the Rue de Seine and as far as the Luxembourg . 
But a week had elapsed since he quitted the ship , and there were more things in his mind than so few days could account for . 
More than once , during the time , he had regarded himself as admonished but the admonition this morning was formidably sharp . 
It took as it hadn't done yet the form of a question the question of what he was doing with such an extraordinary sense of escape . 
This sense was sharpest after he had read his letters , but that was also precisely why the question pressed . 
If he had begun yesterday with a small grievance he had therefore an opportunity to begin to day with its opposite . 
He read the letters successively and slowly , putting others back into his pocket but keeping these for a long time afterwards gathered in his lap . 
He had to make sure of them to put his scruple to rest . 
He would have come round and back to her bravely , but he would have had first to pull himself together . 
It filled for him , this tone of hers , all the air yet it struck him at the same time as the hum of vain things . 
This latter effect was what he tried to justify and with the success that , grave though the appearance , he at last lighted on a form that was happy . 
He arrived at it by the inevitable recognition of his having been a fortnight before one of the weariest of men . 
What he wanted most was some idea that would simplify , and nothing would do this so much as the fact that he was done for and finished . 
If it had been in such a light that he had just detected in his cup the dregs of youth , that was a mere flaw of the surface of his scheme . 
He was so distinctly fagged out that it must serve precisely as his convenience , and if he could but consistently be good for little enough he might do everything he wanted . 
Everything he wanted was comprised moreover in a single boon the common unattainable art of taking things as they came . 
He could easily see that from the moment he should accept the notion of his foredoomed collapse the last thing he would lack would be reasons and memories . 
It had not been , so much achievement missed , a light yoke nor a short load . 
sic It was at present as if the backward picture had hung there , the long crooked course , grey in the shadow of his solitude . 
Waymarsh was one of these , and the fact struck him just now as marking the record . 
Mrs. Newsome was another , and Miss Gostrey had of a sudden shown signs of becoming a third . 
He had incurred the ridicule of having to have his explanation explained . 
He was Lambert Strether because he was on the cover , whereas it should have been , for anything like glory , that he was on the cover because he was Lambert Strether . 
He judged the quantity as small because it WAS small , and all the more egregiously since it couldn't , as he saw the case , so much as thinkably have been larger . 
Buried for long years in dark corners at any rate these few germs had sprouted again under forty eight hours of Paris . 
The process of yesterday had really been the process of feeling the general stirred life of connexions long since individually dropped . 
If the playhouse wasn't closed his seat had at least fallen to somebody else . 
It twinkled and trembled and melted together , and what seemed all surface one moment seemed all depth the next . 
It will have been sufficiently seen that he was not a man to neglect any good chance for reflexion . 
Was it at all possible for instance to like Paris enough without liking it too much ? He luckily however hadn't promised Mrs. Newsome not to like it at all . 
He was ready to recognise at this stage that such an engagement WOULD have tied his hands . 
The Luxembourg Gardens were incontestably just so adorable at this hour by reason in addition to their intrinsic charm of his not having taken it . 
The only engagement he had taken , when he looked the thing in the face , was to do what he reasonably could . 
It upset him a little none the less and after a while to find himself at last remembering on what current of association he had been floated so far . 
It became at once vivid to him that he had originally had , for a few days , an almost envious vision of the boy's romantic privilege . 
of the American bars and banks roundabout the Opera . 
But the very next thing that happened had been a dark drop of the curtain . 
The light refreshment of these vain appearances had not accordingly carried any of them very far . 
There had been three months he had sufficiently figured it out in which Chad had wanted to try . 
He HAD tried , though not very hard he had had his little hour of good faith . 
The weakness of this principle in him was that almost any accident attestedly bad enough was stronger . 
Such had at any rate markedly been the case for the precipitation of a special series of impressions . 
Omnes vulnerant , ultima necat they had all morally wounded , the last had morally killed . 
The last had been longest in possession in possession , that is , of whatever was left of the poor boy's finer mortality . 
He pulled himself then at last together for his own progress back not with the feeling that he had taken his walk in vain . 
He prolonged it a little , in the immediate neighbourhood , after he had quitted his chair and the upshot of the whole morning for him was that his campaign had begun . 
He had wanted to put himself in relation , and he would be hanged if he were NOT in relation . 
He was that at no moment so much as while , under the old arches of the Odeon , he lingered before the charming open air array of literature classic and casual . 
He wasn't there to dip , to consume he was there to reconstruct . 
He wasn't there for his own profit not , that is , the direct he was there on some chance of feeling the brush of the wing of the stray spirit of youth . 
Surely it WAS a privilege to have been young and happy just there . 
Well , the best thing Strether knew of him was that he had had such a dream . 
He HAD announced himself six months before had written out at least that Chad wasn't to be surprised should he see him some day turn up . 
Not the least of this lady's high merits for him was that he could absolutely rest on her word . 
She was the only woman he had known , even at Woollett , as to whom his conviction was positive that to lie was beyond her art . 
Another was that the balcony in question didn't somehow show as a convenience easy to surrender . 
Poor Strether had at this very moment to recognise the truth that wherever one paused in Paris the imagination reacted before one could stop it . 
This perpetual reaction put a price , if one would , on pauses but it piled up consequences till there was scarce room to pick one's steps among them . 
His arrival contributed , in its order , to keeping Strether in position the result of which in turn was that Strether soon felt himself noticed . 
The young man began to look at him as in acknowledgement of his being himself in observation . 
This was interesting so far as it went , but the interest was affected by the young man's not being Chad . 
Strether wondered at first if he were perhaps Chad altered , and then saw that this was asking too much of alteration . 
The young man was light bright and alert with an air too pleasant to have been arrived at by patching . 
Strether had conceived Chad as patched , but not beyond recognition . 
He was in presence , he felt , of amendments enough as they stood it was a sufficient amendment that the gentleman up there should be Chad's friend . 
When he did move it was fairly to escape that alternative . 
Taking his way over the street at last and passing through the porte cochere of the house was like consciously leaving Waymarsh out . 
However , he would tell him all about it . 
The mention to his companion of the sacrifice was moreover exactly what introduced his recital or , as he would have called it with more confidence in his interlocutor , his confession . 
His confession was that he had been captured and that one of the features of the affair had just failed to be his engaging himself on the spot to dinner . 
As by such a freedom Waymarsh would have lost him he had obeyed his scruple and he had likewise obeyed another scruple which bore on the question of his himself bringing a guest . 
Waymarsh looked gravely ardent , over the finished soup , at this array of scruples Strether hadn't yet got quite used to being so unprepared for the consequences of the impression he produced . 
It was comparatively easy to explain , however , that he hadn't felt sure his guest would please . 
Everything was there that he wanted , everything that could make the moment an occasion , that would do beautifully everything but what Waymarsh might give . 
He was affected after a minute , face to face with his actual comrade , by the impulse to overcolour . 
There had already been things in respect to which he knew himself tempted by this perversity . 
If Waymarsh thought them bad he should at least have his reason for his discomfort so Strether showed them as worse . 
Still , he was now , in his way , sincerely perplexed . 
I found his friend in fact there keeping the place warm , as he called it , for him Chad himself being , as appears , in the south . 
He went a month ago to Cannes and though his return begins to be looked for it can't be for some days . 
I might , you see , perfectly have waited a week might have beaten a retreat as soon as I got this essential knowledge . 
But I beat no retreat I did the opposite I stayed , I dawdled , I trifled above all I looked round . 
I saw , in fine and I don't know what to call it I sniffed . 
It's a detail , but it's as if there were something something very good TO sniff . 
Waymarsh's face had shown his friend an attention apparently so remote that the latter was slightly surprised to find it at this point abreast with him . 
Do you mean a smell ? What of ? A charming scent . 
Waymarsh gave an inferential grunt . 
Does he live there with a woman ? I don't know . 
Waymarsh waited an instant for more , then resumed . 
Has he taken her off with him ? And will he bring her back ? Strether fell into the enquiry . 
But he wound it up as before . 
It was somehow enlarging and the air of that amplitude was now doubtless more or less and all for Waymarsh to feel in his further response . 
That's what I found out from the young man . 
But I thought you said you found out nothing . 
Nothing but that that I don't know anything . 
And what good does that do you ? It's just , said Strether , what I've come to you to help me to discover . 
I mean anything about anything over here . 
I FELT that , up there . 
It regularly rose before me in its might . 
The young man moreover Chad's friend as good as told me so . 
As good as told you you know nothing about anything ? Waymarsh appeared to look at some one who might have as good as told HIM . 
How old is he ? Well , I guess not thirty . 
Yet you had to take that from him ? Oh I took a good deal more since , as I tell you , I took an invitation to dejeuner . 
And are you GOING to that unholy meal ? If you'll come with me . 
He wants you too , you know . 
I told him about you . 
He gave me his card , Strether pursued , and his name's rather funny . 
It's John Little Bilham , and he says his two surnames are , on account of his being small , inevitably used together . 
Well , Waymarsh asked with due detachment from these details , what's he doing up there ? His account of himself is that he's 'only a little artist man . 
That seemed to me perfectly to describe him . 
But he's yet in the phase of study this , you know , is the great art school to pass a certain number of years in which he came over . 
And he's a great friend of Chad's , and occupying Chad's rooms just now because they're so pleasant . 
HE'S very pleasant and curious too , Strether added though he's not from Boston . 
Waymarsh looked already rather sick of him . 
Where is he from ? Strether thought . 
I don't know that , either . 
But he's 'notoriously , as he put it himself , not from Boston . 
Well , Waymarsh moralised from dry depths , every one can't notoriously be from Boston . 
Why , he continued , is he curious ? Perhaps just for THAT for one thing ! But really , Strether added , for everything . 
When you meet him you'll see . 
Oh I don't want to meet him , Waymarsh impatiently growled . 
Why don't he go home ? Strether hesitated . 
Well , because he likes it over here . 
This appeared in particular more than Waymarsh could bear . 
He ought then to be ashamed of himself , and , as you admit that you think so too , why drag him in ? Strether's reply again took time . 
Perhaps I do think so myself though I don't quite yet admit it . 
I'm not a bit sure it's again one of the things I want to find out . 
I liked him , and CAN you like people ? But no matter . 
There's no doubt I want you to come down on me and squash me . 
But it presently broke out at a softer spot . 
Have they got a handsome place up there ? Oh a charming place full of beautiful and valuable things . 
I never saw such a place and Strether's thought went back to it . 
For a little artist man ! He could in fact scarce express it . 
But his companion , who appeared now to have a view , insisted . 
Well ? Well , life can hold nothing better . 
Besides , they're things of which he's in charge . 
Besides I didn't want to . 
Strether in short explained it at a stroke . 
You can't make out over here what people do know . 
Then what did you come over for ? Well , I suppose exactly to see for myself without their aid . 
Then what do you want mine for ? Oh , Strether laughed , you're not one of THEM ! I do know what you know . 
As , however , this last assertion caused Waymarsh again to look at him hard such being the latter's doubt of its implications he felt his justification lame . 
Which was still more the case when Waymarsh presently said Look here , Strether . 
Our friend smiled with a doubt of his own . 
Do you mean my tone ? No damn your tone . 
I mean your nosing round . 
Let them stew in their juice . 
You're being used for a thing you ain't fit for . 
People don't take a fine tooth comb to groom a horse . 
Am I a fine tooth comb ? Strether laughed . 
It's something I never called myself ! It's what you are , all the same . 
You ain't so young as you were , but you've kept your teeth . 
He acknowledged his friend's humour . 
Take care I don't get them into YOU ! You'd like them , my friends at home , Waymarsh , he declared you'd really particularly like them . 
And I know it was slightly irrelevant , but he gave it sudden and singular force I know they'd like you ! Oh don't work them off on ME ! Waymarsh groaned . 
Yet Strether still lingered with his hands in his pockets . 
It's really quite as indispensable as I say that Chad should be got back . 
Indispensable to whom ? To you ? Yes , Strether presently said . 
Because if you get him you also get Mrs. Newsome ? Strether faced it . 
And if you don't get him you don't get her ? It might be merciless , but he continued not to flinch . 
I think it might have some effect on our personal understanding . 
Chad's of real importance or can easily become so if he will to the business . 
And the business is of real importance to his mother's husband ? Well , I naturally want what my future wife wants . 
And the thing will be much better if we have our own man in it . 
If you have your own man in it , in other words , Waymarsh said , you'll marry you personally more money . 
She's already rich , as I understand you , but she'll be richer still if the business can be made to boom on certain lines that you've laid down . 
I haven't laid them down , Strether promptly returned . 
Mr. Newsome who knew extraordinarily well what he was about laid them down ten years ago . 
Oh well , Waymarsh seemed to indicate with a shake of his mane , THAT didn't matter ! You're fierce for the boom anyway . 
His friend weighed a moment in silence the justice of the charge . 
Waymarsh gave this proposition a long hard look . 
You're afraid yourself of being squared . 
But you're a humbug , he added , all the same . 
Oh ! Strether quickly protested . 
Yes , you ask me for protection which makes you very interesting and then you won't take it . 
If I'm squared where's my marriage ? If I miss my errand I miss that and if I miss that I miss everything I'm nowhere . 
Waymarsh but all relentlessly took this in . 
What do I care where you are if you're spoiled ? Their eyes met on it an instant . 
Thank you awfully , Strether at last said . 
But don't you think HER judgement of that ? Ought to content me ? No. It kept them again face to face , and the end of this was that Strether again laughed . 
You really MUST know her . 
He breakfasted with Mr. Bilham on the morrow , and , as inconsequently befell , with Waymarsh massively of the party . 
It was present to him that when the little business with Mr. Bilham should be over he would still have shining hours to use absolutely as he liked . 
Nothing was less to have been calculated in the business than that it should now be for him as if he and Waymarsh were comparatively quite at one . 
The latter was magnificent this at least was an assurance privately given him by Miss Barrace . 
Strether hadn't failed to ask what the right quarter might be , much as he required his presence of mind to meet such a change in their scheme . 
Oh the artist quarter and that kind of thing HERE already , for instance , as you see . 
He was in the trap still more than his companion and , unlike his companion , not making the best of it which was precisely what doubtless gave him his admirable sombre glow . 
Little did Miss Barrace know that what was behind it was his grave estimate of her own laxity . 
In this character it would have justified them in a proper insistence on discharging their score . 
Strether had never smoked , and he felt as if he flaunted at his friend that this had been only because of a reason . 
The reason , it now began to appear even to himself , was that he had never had a lady to smoke with . 
It was this lady's being there at all , however , that was the strange free thing perhaps , since she WAS there , her smoking was the least of her freedoms . 
That was the consequence of their being too bad to be talked about , and was the accompaniment , by the same token , of a deep conception of their badness . 
This , he was well aware , was a dreadful necessity but such was the stern logic , he could only gather , of a relation to the irregular life . 
It was the way the irregular life sat upon Bilham and Miss Barrace that was the insidious , the delicate marvel . 
They commended his munificence and approved his taste , and in doing so sat down , as it seemed to Strether , in the very soil out of which these things flowered . 
One thing was certain he saw he must make up his mind . 
He must approach Chad , must wait for him , deal with him , master him , but he mustn't dispossess himself of the faculty of seeing things as they were . 
He must bring him to HIM not go himself , as it were , so much of the way . 
He must at any rate be clearer as to what should he continue to do that for convenience he was still condoning . 
It was on the detail of this quantity and what could the fact be but mystifying ? that Bilham and Miss Barrace threw so little light . 
He recognised in an instant that there really , there only , he should find the boon with the vision of which he had first mounted Chad's stairs . 
Her compact and crowded little chambers , almost dusky , as they at first struck him , with accumulations , represented a supreme general adjustment to opportunities and conditions . 
Wherever he looked he saw an old ivory or an old brocade , and he scarce knew where to sit for fear of a misappliance . 
It was the innermost nook of the shrine as brown as a pirate's cave . 
But after a full look at his hostess he knew none the less what most concerned him . 
The circle in which they stood together was warm with life , and every question between them would live there as nowhere else . 
What in the name of all the Pococks have you managed to do ? Why exactly the wrong thing . 
I've made a frantic friend of little Bilham . 
Ah that sort of thing was of the essence of your case and to have been allowed for from the first . 
And it was only after this that , quite as a minor matter , she asked who in the world little Bilham might be . 
Should you mind my seeing him ? Only once , you know , she added . 
Oh the oftener the better he's amusing he's original . 
He doesn't shock you ? Miss Gostrey threw out . 
You must dine with me to meet him , Strether went on . 
Are you giving dinners ? Yes there I am . 
That you're spending too much money ? Dear no they seem to cost so little . 
But that I do it to THEM . 
I ought to hold off . 
She thought again she laughed . 
The money you must be spending to think it cheap ! But I must be out of it to the naked eye . 
He looked for a moment as if she were really failing him . 
Then you won't meet them ? It was almost as if she had developed an unexpected personal prudence . 
Who are they first ? Why little Bilham to begin with . 
He kept back for the moment Miss Barrace . 
And Chad when he comes you must absolutely see . 
When then does he come ? When Bilham has had time to write him , and hear from him about me . 
Bilham , however , he pursued , will report favourably favourably for Chad . 
That will make him not afraid to come . 
I want you the more therefore , you see , for my bluff . 
Oh you'll do yourself for your bluff . 
At the rate you've gone I'm quiet . 
Ah but I haven't , said Strether , made one protest . 
Haven't you been seeing what there's to protest about ? He let her , with this , however ruefully , have the whole truth . 
I haven't yet found a single thing . 
Isn't there any one WITH him then ? Of the sort I came out about ? Strether took a moment . 
How do I know ? And what do I care ? Oh oh ! and her laughter spread . 
He was struck in fact by the effect on her of his joke . 
He saw now how he meant it as a joke . 
SHE saw , however , still other things , though in an instant she had hidden them . 
You've got at no facts at all ? He tried to muster them . 
Well , he has a lovely home . 
Ah that , in Paris , she quickly returned , proves nothing . 
That is rather it DISproves nothing . 
They may very well , you see , the people your mission is concerned with , have done it FOR him . 
And it was on the scene of their doings then that Waymarsh and I sat guzzling . 
Oh if you forbore to guzzle here on scenes of doings , she replied , you might easily die of starvation . 
With which she smiled at him . 
Ah I've EVERYTHING before me . 
But on our hypothesis , you know , they must be wonderful . 
They ARE ! said Miss Gostrey . 
You're not therefore , you see , she added , wholly without facts . 
They've BEEN , in effect , wonderful . 
To have got at something comparatively definite appeared at last a little to help a wave by which moreover , the next moment , recollection was washed . 
My young man does admit furthermore that they're our friend's great interest . 
Is that the expression he uses ? Strether more exactly recalled . 
Something more vivid ? Less ? He had bent , with neared glasses , over a group of articles on a small stand and at this he came up . 
It was a mere allusion , but , on the lookout as I was , it struck me . 
'Awful , you know , as Chad is' those were Bilham's words . 
'Awful , you know' ? Oh ! and Miss Gostrey turned them over . 
She seemed , however , satisfied . 
Well , what more do you want ? He glanced once more at a bibelot or two , and everything sent him back . 
But it is all the same as if they wished to let me have it between the eyes . 
Quoi donc ? Why what I speak of . 
They can stun you with that as well as with anything else . 
Oh , she answered , you'll come round ! I must see them each , she went on , for myself . 
I mean Mr. Bilham and Mr. Newsome Mr. Bilham naturally first . 
Once only once for each that will do . 
But face to face for half an hour . 
What's Mr. Chad , she immediately pursued , doing at Cannes ? Decent men don't go to Cannes with the well , with the kind of ladies you mean . 
Don't they ? Strether asked with an interest in decent men that amused her . 
No , elsewhere , but not to Cannes . 
I mean it's all people you know when you do know them . 
And if HE does , why that's different too . 
He must have gone alone . 
She can't be with him . 
I haven't , Strether confessed in his weakness , the least idea . 
There seemed much in what she said , but he was able after a little to help her to a nearer impression . 
The fusion of these schemes presented no difficulty , and it was to strike him again that in little Bilham's company contrarieties in general dropped . 
This was the more grateful to him that he could think of the intelligence now serving him as an acquisition positively new . 
He wouldn't have known even the day before what she meant that is if she meant , what he assumed , that they were intense Americans together . 
He had just worked round and with a sharper turn of the screw than any yet to the conception of an American intense as little Bilham was intense . 
The young man was his first specimen the specimen had profoundly perplexed him at present however there was light . 
He wanted to be able to like his specimen with a clear good conscience , and this fully permitted it . 
What had muddled him was precisely the small artist man's way it was so complete of being more American than anybody . 
But it now for the time put Strether vastly at his ease to have this view of a new way . 
The amiable youth then looked out , as it had first struck Strether , at a world in respect to which he hadn't a prejudice . 
The one our friend most instantly missed was the usual one in favour of an occupation accepted . 
He referred to these things with an equal fond familiarity , and it was sufficiently clear that , as an outfit , they still served him . 
They twanged with a vengeance the aesthetic lyre they drew from it wonderful airs . 
This aspect of their life had an admirable innocence and he looked on occasion at Maria Gostrey to see to what extent that element reached her . 
The new evidence was to come , as it proved , in a day or two . 
But she had for that matter her community with little Bilham she too always , on the great issues , showed as having known in time . 
It made her constantly beforehand with him and gave him mainly the chance to ask himself how on the day of their settlement their account would stand . 
She hadn't dined with him , and it was characteristic of their relation that she had made him embrace her refusal without in the least understanding it . 
She ever caused her rearrangements to affect him as her tenderest touches . 
His temporary absence moreover seemed , as never yet , to make the right moment for Miss Gostrey . 
Strether had been waiting till tonight to get back from her in some mirrored form her impressions and conclusions . 
She had elected , as they said , to see little Bilham once but now she had seen him twice and had nevertheless not said more than a word . 
The glory was happily unobjectionable , and the little charges were candid for herself she had travelled that road and she merely waited on their innocence . 
But she referred in due time to their absent friend , whom it was clear they should have to give up . 
She spoke as if , with her look , it might have been Waymarsh who had written to the youth , and the latter's face showed a mixture of austerity and anguish . 
She went on however as if to meet this . 
He's far and away , you know , the best of them . 
They've all passed , year after year but there has been no one in particular I've ever wanted to stop . 
I feel don't YOU ? that I want to stop little Bilham he's so exactly right as he is . 
She continued to talk to Waymarsh . 
If he'll only not spoil it ! But they always WILL they always do they always have . 
I don't think Waymarsh knows , Strether said after a moment , quite what it's open to Bilham to spoil . 
It can't be a good American , Waymarsh lucidly enough replied for it didn't strike me the young man had developed much in THAT shape . 
It's such an order , really , that before we cook you the dish we must at least have your receipt . 
You're right about him she now took in Strether little Bilham has them to a charm , we must keep little Bilham along . 
Then she was all again for Waymarsh . 
The others have all wanted so dreadfully to do something , and they've gone and done it in too many cases indeed . 
It leaves them never the same afterwards the charm's always somehow broken . 
Now HE , I think , you know , really won't . 
He won't do the least dreadful little thing . 
We shall continue to enjoy him just as he is . 
He isn't a bit ashamed . 
He has every scrap of the courage of it that one could ask . 
Only think what he MIGHT do . 
One wants really for fear of some accident to keep him in view . 
One can never completely trust them . 
One's uneasy , and I think that's why I most miss him now . 
HE knew more or less what she meant but the fact wasn't a reason for her not pretending to Waymarsh that he didn't . 
It was craven of him perhaps , but he would , for the high amenity of the occasion , have liked Waymarsh not to be so sure of his wit . 
Her recognition of it gave him away and , before she had done with him or with that article , would give him worse . 
Well , the effect of it for Strether was an abrupt reaction , a final impatience of his own tendency to temporise . 
Where was that taking him anyway ? It was one of the quiet instants that sometimes settle more matters than the outbreaks dear to the historic muse . 
The only qualification of the quietness was the synthetic Oh hang it ! into which Strether's share of the silence soundlessly flowered . 
It represented , this mute ejaculation , a final impulse to burn his ships . 
I don't quite know how but it's in my bones . 
And she looked at him at last as if , little material as she yet gave him , he'd really understand . 
For an opinion THAT'S my opinion . 
He makes you out too well not to . 
Not to work for me to night ? Strether wondered . 
Then I hope he isn't doing anything very bad . 
They've got you , she portentously answered . 
Do you mean he IS ? They've got you , she merely repeated . 
Though she disclaimed the prophetic vision she was at this instant the nearest approach he had ever met to the priestess of the oracle . 
The light was in her eyes . 
You must face it now . 
He faced it on the spot . 
They HAD arranged ? Every move in the game . 
And they've been arranging ever since . 
He has had every day his little telegram from Cannes . 
It made Strether open his eyes . 
Do you KNOW that ? I do better . 
This was , before I met him , what I wondered whether I WAS to see . 
But as soon as I met him I ceased to wonder , and our second meeting made me sure . 
I took him all in . 
He was acting he is still on his daily instructions . 
So that Chad has done the whole thing ? Oh no not the whole . 
WE'VE done some of it . 
You and I and 'Europe . 
Europe yes , Strether mused . 
Dear old Paris , she seemed to explain . 
But there was more , and , with one of her turns , she risked it . 
You , she declared , have been a good bit of it . 
A good bit of what , ma'am ? Why of the wonderful consciousness of our friend here . 
You've helped too in your way to float him to where he is . 
And where the devil IS he ? She passed it on with a laugh . 
Where the devil , Strether , are you ? He spoke as if he had just been thinking it out . 
Well , quite already in Chad's hands , it would seem . 
And he had had with this another thought . 
Will that be just all through Bilham the way he's going to work it ? It would be , for him , you know , an idea . 
And Chad with an idea ! Well ? she asked while the image held him . 
Well , is Chad what shall I say ? monstrous ? Oh as much as you like ! But the idea you speak of , she said , won't have been his best . 
It won't be all through little Bilham that he'll work it . 
This already sounded almost like a hope destroyed . 
The door closed behind him , and , though their faces showed him his mistake , his air , which was striking , was all good confidence . 
He discreetly signed that he would wait , would stand , and these things and his face , one look from which she had caught , had suddenly worked for Miss Gostrey . 
She fitted to them all an answer for Strether's last question . 
The solid stranger was simply the answer as she now , turning to her friend , indicated . 
She brought it straight out for him it presented the intruder . 
Why , through this gentleman ! The gentleman indeed , at the same time , though sounding for Strether a very short name , did practically as much to explain . 
Strether gasped the name back then only had he seen Miss Gostrey had said more than she knew . 
They were in presence of Chad himself . 
It was truly the life of high pressure that Strether had seemed to feel himself lead while he sat there , close to Chad , during the long tension of the act . 
It had faced every contingency but that Chad should not BE Chad , and this was what it now had to face with a mere strained smile and an uncomfortable flush . 
It was a small source of peace moreover to be reduced to wondering how little he might know in such an event what a sum he was setting you . 
He couldn't absolutely not know , for you couldn't absolutely not let him . 
Perhaps he , Strether himself , was the only person after all aware of it . 
Even Miss Gostrey , with all her science , wouldn't be , would she ? and he had never seen any one less aware of anything than Waymarsh as he glowered at Chad . 
The social sightlessness of his old friend's survey marked for him afresh , and almost in an humiliating way , the inevitable limits of direct aid from this source . 
He was not certain , however , of not drawing a shade of compensation from the privilege , as yet untasted , of knowing more about something in particular than Miss Gostrey did . 
He derived during his half hour no assistance from her , and just this fact of her not meeting his eyes played a little , it must be confessed , into his predicament . 
He didn't quite see how he could so feel as one without somehow showing as one . 
The worst of that question moreover was that he knew it as a symptom the sense of which annoyed him . 
This sage consideration too , distinctly , seemed to leave untouched the fact that he WAS going to be conscious . 
He was conscious of everything but of what would have served him . 
He hadn't only not proposed it , but had lacked even the presence of mind to see it as possible . 
He had stuck there like a schoolboy wishing not to miss a minute of the show though for that portion of the show then presented he hadn't had an instant's real attention . 
He couldn't when the curtain fell have given the slightest account of what had happened . 
He had therefore , further , not at that moment acknowledged the amenity added by this acceptance of his awkwardness to Chad's general patience . 
He remembered the two absurdities that , if his presence of mind HAD failed , were the things that had had most to do with it . 
Here already then were abounding results he had on the spot and without the least trouble of intention taught Strether that even in so small a thing as that there were different ways . 
The ground had quite fallen away from it , yet no resemblance whatever to the mother had supervened . 
His highest ingenuity was in keeping the sky of life clear of them . 
Whether or no he had a grand idea of the lucid , he held that nothing ever was in fact for any one else explained . 
One went through the vain motions , but it was mostly a waste of life . 
A personal relation was a relation only so long as people either perfectly understood or , better still , didn't care if they didn't . 
It easily grew too fast , and the Atlantic cable now alone could race with it . 
That agency would each day have testified for him to something that was not what Woollett had argued . 
He was not at this moment absolutely sure that the effect of the morrow's or rather of the night's appreciation of the crisis wouldn't be to determine some brief missive . 
Have at last seen him , but oh dear ! some temporary relief of that sort seemed to hover before him . 
It hovered somehow as preparing them all yet preparing them for what ? If he might do so more luminously and cheaply he would tick out in four words Awfully old grey hair . 
To this particular item in Chad's appearance he constantly , during their mute half hour , reverted as if so very much more than he could have said had been involved in it . 
The most he could have said would have been If he's going to make me feel young ! which indeed , however , carried with it quite enough . 
If Strether was to feel young , that is , it would be because Chad was to feel old and an aged and hoary sinner had been no part of the scheme . 
He found too that he liked that idea , and he wished that , by the same token , Mrs. Newsome might have caught as well . 
He knew to the full , on what he had just extracted from Miss Gostrey , Chad's marks of alertness but they were a reason the more for not dawdling . 
If he was himself moreover to be treated as young he wouldn't at all events be so treated before he should have struck out at least once . 
His arms might be pinioned afterwards , but it would have been left on record that he was fifty . 
The importance of this he had indeed begun to feel before they left the theatre it had become a wild unrest , urging him to seize his chance . 
For Chad's receptive attitude was that of a person who had been gracefully quiet while the messenger at last reaching him has run a mile through the dust . 
During some seconds after he had spoken Strether felt as if HE had made some such exertion he was not even certain that the perspiration wasn't on his brow . 
It was the kind of consciousness for which he had to thank the look that , while the strain lasted , the young man's eyes gave him . 
Such a fear , any fear , was unpleasant . 
But everything was unpleasant it was odd how everything had suddenly turned so . 
This however was no reason for letting the least thing go . 
Strether had the next minute proceeded as roundly as if with an advantage to follow up . 
Yes it was knickerbockers , I'm busybody enough to remember that and that you had , for your age I speak of the first far away time tremendously stout legs . 
Well , we want you to break . 
Your mother's heart's passionately set upon it , but she has above and beyond that excellent arguments and reasons . 
I've not put them into her head I needn't remind you how little she's a person who needs that . 
But they exist you must take it from me as a friend both of hers and yours for myself as well . 
You had better know the worst at once . 
It's a question of an immediate rupture and an immediate return . 
I've been conceited enough to dream I can sugar that pill . 
I take at any rate the greatest interest in the question . 
I took it already before I left home , and I don't mind telling you that , altered as you are , I take it still more now that I've seen you . 
You're older and I don't know what to call it ! more of a handful but you're by so much the more , I seem to make out , to our purpose . 
Do I strike you as improved ? Strether was to recall that Chad had at this point enquired . 
He was really for a while to like thinking he had been positively hard . 
That however fell in perfectly with what Strether had said . 
There was indeed a signal particular in which he would distinctly be more so . 
But in spite of all he had put the flag at the window . 
It gave him really almost the sense of having already acted his part . 
What it came to was that with an absolutely new quantity to deal with one simply couldn't know . 
The new quantity was represented by the fact that Chad had been made over . 
That was all whatever it was it was everything . 
Strether had never seen the thing so done before it was perhaps a speciality of Paris . 
If one had been present at the process one might little by little have mastered the result but he was face to face , as matters stood , with the finished business . 
It had freely been noted for him that he might be received as a dog among skittles , but that was on the basis of the old quantity . 
He had originally thought of lines and tones as things to be taken , but these possibilities had now quite melted away . 
There was no computing at all what the young man before him would think or feel or say on any subject whatever . 
This intelligence Strether had afterwards , to account for his nervousness , reconstituted as he might , just as he had also reconstituted the promptness with which Chad had corrected his uncertainty . 
An extraordinarily short time had been required for the correction , and there had ceased to be anything negative in his companion's face and air as soon as it was made . 
Your engagement to my mother has become then what they call here a fait accompli ? it had consisted , the determinant touch , in nothing more than that . 
Well , that was enough , Strether had felt while his answer hung fire . 
He had felt at the same time , however , that nothing could less become him than that it should hang fire too long . 
Yes , he said brightly , it was on the happy settlement of the question that I started . 
You see therefore to what tune I'm in your family . 
Moreover , he added , I've been supposing you'd suppose it . 
Oh I've been supposing it for a long time , and what you tell me helps me to understand that you should want to do something . 
To do something , I mean , said Chad , to commemorate an event so what do they call it ? so auspicious . 
You want to make a bonfire in fact , he laughed , and you pitch me on . 
Thank you , thank you ! he laughed again . 
The shade of shyness was mere good taste . 
People with manners formed could apparently have , as one of their best cards , the shade of shyness too . 
In gleams , in glances , the past did perhaps peep out of it but such lights were faint and instantly merged . 
Chad was brown and thick and strong , and of old Chad had been rough . 
The effect of it was general it had retouched his features , drawn them with a cleaner line . 
He had formerly , with a great deal of action , expressed very little and he now expressed whatever was necessary with almost none at all . 
It was as if in short he had really , copious perhaps but shapeless , been put into a firm mould and turned successfully out . 
The phenomenon Strether kept eyeing it as a phenomenon , an eminent case was marked enough to be touched by the finger . 
He finally put his hand across the table and laid it on Chad's arm . 
If you'll promise me here on the spot and giving me your word of honour to break straight off , you'll make the future the real right thing for all of us alike . 
You'll ease off the strain of this decent but none the less acute suspense in which I've for so many days been waiting for you , and let me turn in to rest . 
I shall leave you with my blessing and go to bed in peace . 
Chad again fell back at this and , his hands pocketed , settled himself a little in which posture he looked , though he rather anxiously smiled , only the more earnest . 
Then Strether seemed to see that he was really nervous , and he took that as what he would have called a wholesome sign . 
The only mark of it hitherto had been his more than once taking off and putting on his wide brimmed crush hat . 
He had at this moment made the motion again to remove it , then had only pushed it back , so that it hung informally on his strong young grizzled crop . 
The observation was at any rate determined in him by some light too fine to distinguish from so many others , but it was none the less sharply determined . 
Chad looked unmistakeably during these instants well , as Strether put it to himself , all he was worth . 
Our friend had a sudden apprehension of what that would on certain sides be . 
That was then the way men marked out by women WERE and also the men by whom the women were doubtless in turn sufficiently distinguished . 
It affected Strether for thirty seconds as a relevant truth , a truth which , however , the next minute , had fallen into its relation . 
I'm here to answer everything . 
I think I can even tell you things , of the greatest interest to you , that you won't know enough to ask me . 
We'll take as many days to it as you like . 
But I want , Strether wound up , to go to bed now . 
Really ? Chad had spoken in such surprise that he was amused . 
Can't you believe it ? with what you put me through ? The young man seemed to consider . 
Oh I haven't put you through much yet . 
Do you mean there's so much more to come ? Strether laughed . 
All the more reason then that I should gird myself . 
And as if to mark what he felt he could by this time count on he was already on his feet . 
Chad , still seated , stayed him , with a hand against him , as he passed between their table and the next . 
All these things lacked was their not showing quite so much as the fruit of experience . 
Yes , experience was what Chad did play on him , if he didn't play any grossness of defiance . 
Of course experience was in a manner defiance but it wasn't , at any rate rather indeed quite the contrary ! grossness which was so much gained . 
He fairly grew older , Strether thought , while he himself so reasoned . 
Then with his mature pat of his visitor's arm he also got up and there had been enough of it all by this time to make the visitor feel that something WAS settled . 
Of course , Chad here abruptly began , of course Mother's making things out with you about me has been natural and of course also you've had a good deal to go upon . 
Still , you must have filled out . 
He had stopped , leaving his friend to wonder a little what point he wished to make and this it was that enabled Strether meanwhile to make one . 
Oh we've never pretended to go into detail . 
We weren't in the least bound to THAT . 
It was 'filling out' enough to miss you as we did . 
What I mean is you must have imagined . 
Imagined what ? Well horrors . 
It affected Strether horrors were so little superficially at least in this robust and reasoning image . 
But he was none the less there to be veracious . 
Yes , I dare say we HAVE imagined horrors . 
It was as if and how but anomalously ? he couldn't after all help thinking sufficiently well of these things to let them go for what they were worth . 
This description he quite jumped at it had a sound that gratified his mental ear , so that of a sudden he had already adopted it . 
Pagan yes , that was , wasn't it ? what Chad WOULD logically be . 
It was what he must be . 
It was what he was . 
The idea was a clue and , instead of darkening the prospect , projected a certain clearness . 
Strether made out in this quick ray that a Pagan was perhaps , at the pass they had come to , the thing most wanted at Woollett . 
They'd be able to do with one a good one he'd find an opening yes and Strether's imagination even now prefigured and accompanied the first appearance there of the rousing personage . 
He had only the slight discomfort of feeling , as the young man turned away from the lamp , that his thought had in the momentary silence possibly been guessed . 
Well , I've no doubt , said Chad , you've come near enough . 
The details , as you say , don't matter . 
It HAS been generally the case that I've let myself go . 
But I'm coming round I'm not so bad now . 
With which they walked on again to Strether's hotel . 
Of my going home ? Chad was clearly surprised . 
That's what if you're in anybody's hands may again happen . 
You don't answer my question he kept it up but if you aren't in anybody's hands so much the better . 
There's nothing then but what makes for your going . 
I don't answer your question ? He spoke quite without resenting it . 
Well , such questions have always a rather exaggerated side . 
One doesn't know quite what you mean by being in women's 'hands . 
One is when one isn't . 
One isn't when one is . 
And then one can't quite give people away . 
He seemed kindly to explain . 
I've NEVER got stuck so very hard and , as against anything at any time really better , I don't think I've ever been afraid . 
There was something in it that held Strether to wonder , and this gave him time to go on . 
He broke out as with a more helpful thought . 
Don't you know how I like Paris itself ? The upshot was indeed to make our friend marvel . 
Oh if THAT'S all that's the matter with you ! It was HE who almost showed resentment . 
Chad's smile of a truth more than met it . 
But isn't that enough ? Strether hesitated , but it came out . 
Not enough for your mother ! Spoken , however , it sounded a trifle odd the effect of which was that Chad broke into a laugh . 
Strether , at this , succumbed as well , though with extreme brevity . 
Permit us to have still our theory . 
But if you ARE so free and so strong you're inexcusable . 
I'll write in the morning , he added with decision . 
I'll say I've got you . 
This appeared to open for Chad a new interest . 
How often do you write ? Oh perpetually . 
And at great length ? Strether had become a little impatient . 
I hope it's not found too great . 
And you hear as often ? Again Strether paused . 
As often as I deserve . 
Mother writes , said Chad , a lovely letter . 
Strether , before the closed porte cochere , fixed him a moment . 
It's more , my boy , than YOU do ! But our suppositions don't matter , he added , if you're actually not entangled . 
Chad's pride seemed none the less a little touched . 
I never WAS that let me insist . 
I always had my own way . 
With which he pursued And I have it at present . 
He had appeared stupidly to misrepresent what they thought at Woollett but before he had time to rectify Chad again was upon him . 
It was a dig that , administered by himself and administered even to poor Mrs. Newsome was no more than salutary but administered by Chad and quite logically it came nearer drawing blood . 
They HADn't a low mind nor any approach to one yet incontestably they had worked , and with a certain smugness , on a basis that might be turned against them . 
It was exactly as if they had imputed to him a vulgarity that he had by a mere gesture caused to fall from him . 
The devil of the case was that Strether felt it , by the same stroke , as falling straight upon himself . 
He had been wondering a minute ago if the boy weren't a Pagan , and he found himself wondering now if he weren't by chance a gentleman . 
It didn't in the least , on the spot , spring up helpfully for him that a person couldn't at the same time be both . 
There was nothing at this moment in the air to challenge the combination there was everything to give it on the contrary something of a flourish . 
It struck Strether into the bargain as doing something to meet the most difficult of the questions though perhaps indeed only by substituting another . 
What it accordingly amounted to for him was that he had to take full in the face a fresh attribution of ignorance . 
He didn't know what was bad , and as others didn't know how little he knew it he could put up with his state . 
This last was in truth what Chad quite gracefully did . 
But he did it as with a simple thought that met the whole of the case . 
Oh I'm all right ! It was what Strether had rather bewilderedly to go to bed on . 
II It really looked true moreover from the way Chad was to behave after this . 
He was full of attentions to his mother's ambassador in spite of which , all the while , the latter's other relations rather remarkably contrived to assert themselves . 
He spoke of these facts , pleasantly and obligingly , as the whole story , and felt that he might qualify the alliance as funny if he remained sufficiently grave about it . 
a conception of carrying the war into the enemy's country by showing surprise at the enemy's ignorance . 
This tone was so far successful as that Chad quite appeared to recognise her as a person whose fame had reached him , but against his acquaintance with whom much mischance had worked . 
He hinted at his having more and more given way to a different principle of selection the moral of which seemed to be that he went about little in the colony . 
For the moment certainly he had quite another interest . 
It was deep , what he understood , and Strether , for himself , could only so observe it . 
He couldn't see as yet how deep . 
Might he not all too soon ! For there was really too much of their question that Chad had already committed himself to liking . 
He liked , to begin with , his prospective stepfather which was distinctly what had not been on the cards . 
His hating him was the untowardness for which Strether had been best prepared he hadn't expected the boy's actual form to give him more to do than his imputed . 
It gave him more through suggesting that he must somehow make up to himself for not being sure he was sufficiently disagreeable . 
That had really been present to him as his only way to be sure he was sufficiently thorough . 
The point was that if Chad's tolerance of his thoroughness were insincere , were but the best of devices for gaining time , it none the less did treat everything as tacitly concluded . 
Strether sought relief there were hours when he required it in repeating himself it was in truth not to be blinked that Chad had a way . 
The main question as yet was of what it was a way TO . 
It made vulgar questions no more easy but that was unimportant when all questions save those of his own asking had dropped . 
That he was free was answer enough , and it wasn't quite ridiculous that this freedom should end by presenting itself as what was difficult to move . 
Strether was at this period again and again thrown back on a felt need to remodel somehow his plan . 
He had once or twice , in secret , literally expressed the irritated wish that SHE would come out and find her . 
This echo as distinct over there in the dry thin air as some shrill heading above a column of print seemed to reach him even as he wrote . 
She had looked him in his conscious eyes even before he sailed , and that she didn't believe HE would find the woman had been written in her book . 
Her mother had , in a case her private judgement of which remained educative of Mrs. Pocock's critical sense , found the man . 
Give HER a free hand , would be the moral , and the woman would soon be found . 
His impression of Miss Gostrey after her introduction to Chad was meanwhile an impression of a person almost unnaturally on her guard . 
He repeatedly knocked at her door to let her have it afresh that Chad's case whatever else of minor interest it might yield was first and foremost a miracle almost monstrous . 
It was the alteration of the entire man , and was so signal an instance that nothing else , for the intelligent observer , could COULD it ? signify . 
It's a plot , he declared there's more in it than meets the eye . 
He gave the rein to his fancy . 
It's a plant ! His fancy seemed to please her . 
Whose then ? Well , the party responsible is , I suppose , the fate that waits for one , the dark doom that rides . 
What I mean is that with such elements one can't count . 
I've but my poor individual , my modest human means . 
It isn't playing the game to turn on the uncanny . 
All one's energy goes to facing it , to tracking it . 
One wants , confound it , don't you see ? he confessed with a queer face one wants to enjoy anything so rare . 
Call it then life he puzzled it out call it poor dear old life simply that springs the surprise . 
Nothing alters the fact that the surprise is paralysing , or at any rate engrossing all , practically , hang it , that one sees , that one CAN see . 
Her silences were never barren , nor even dull . 
Is that what you've written home ? He tossed it off . 
Oh dear , yes ! She had another pause while , across her carpets , he had another walk . 
If you don't look out you'll have them straight over . 
Oh but I've said he'll go back . 
And WILL he ? Miss Gostrey asked . 
The special tone of it made him , pulling up , look at her long . 
The air of it held him . 
Then you've all the while known ? I've known nothing but what I've seen and I wonder , she declared with some impatience , that you didn't see as much . 
It was enough to be with him there In the box ? Yes , he rather blankly urged . 
Sure of what ? She got up from her chair , at this , with a nearer approach than she had ever yet shown to dismay at his dimness . 
She even , fairly pausing for it , spoke with a shade of pity . 
Guess ! It was a shade , fairly , that brought a flush into his face so that for a moment , as they waited together , their difference was between them . 
That he has done what he liked most isn't , among any of us , a matter the least in dispute . 
There's equally little question at this time of day of what it is he does like most . 
But I'm not talking , he reasonably explained , of any mere wretch he may still pick up . 
I'm talking of some person who in his present situation may have held her own , may really have counted . 
That's exactly what I am ! said Miss Gostrey . 
But she as quickly made her point . 
I thought you thought or that they think at Woollett that that's what mere wretches necessarily do . 
Mere wretches necessarily DON'T ! she declared with spirit . 
There must , behind every appearance to the contrary , still be somebody somebody who's not a mere wretch , since we accept the miracle . 
What else but such a somebody can such a miracle be ? He took it in . 
Because the fact itself IS the woman ? A woman . 
It's one of the things that HAVE to be . 
But you mean then at least a good one . 
A good woman ? She threw up her arms with a laugh . 
I should call her excellent ! Then why does he deny her ? Miss Gostrey thought a moment . 
But isn't what we want that he shall account for HER ? Well , he does . 
What you have before you is his way . 
You must forgive him if it isn't quite outspoken . 
In Paris such debts are tacit . 
Strether could imagine but still ! Even when the woman's good ? Again she laughed out . 
Yes , and even when the man is ! There's always a caution in such cases , she more seriously explained for what it may seem to show . 
There's nothing that's taken as showing so much here as sudden unnatural goodness . 
Ah then you're speaking now , Strether said , of people who are NOT nice . 
I delight , she replied , in your classifications . 
Consider her and judge her only in Chad . 
He had the courage at least of his companion's logic . 
But is that what I came out for ? She had to confess indeed that it wasn't . 
But there was something else . 
Don't make up your mind . 
There are all sorts of things . 
You haven't seen him all . 
This on his side Strether recognised but his acuteness none the less showed him the danger . 
Yes , but if the more I see the better he seems ? Well , she found something . 
That may be but his disavowal of her isn't , all the same , pure consideration . 
It's the effort to sink her . 
Strether winced at the image . 
To 'sink' ? Well , I mean there's a struggle , and a part of it is just what he hides . 
Take time that's the only way not to make some mistake that you'll regret . 
He does really want to shake her off . 
Our friend had by this time so got into the vision that he almost gasped . 
After all she has done for him ? Miss Gostrey gave him a look which broke the next moment into a wonderful smile . 
He could perform before strangers , but relatives were fatal , and it was now as if , comparatively , Waymarsh were a relative . 
He seemed to hear him say Strike up then ! and to enjoy a foretaste of conscientious domestic criticism . 
His dip for duty's sake where was it worse than Waymarsh's own ? For HE needn't have stopped resisting and refusing , needn't have parleyed , at that rate , with the foe . 
Nothing , Strether had to recognise as he leaned back and smoked , could well less resemble a scene of violence than even the liveliest of these occasions . 
They were occasions of discussion , none the less , and Strether had never in his life heard so many opinions on so many subjects . 
There were opinions at Woollett , but only on three or four . 
No one had ever done that at Woollett , though Strether could remember times when he himself had been tempted to it without quite knowing why . 
He saw why at present he had but wanted to promote intercourse . 
When he asked himself if none would then , in connexion with it , ever come at all , he might almost have passed as wondering how to provoke it . 
What sort of a brute had he expected Chad to be , anyway ? Strether had occasion to make the enquiry but was careful to make it in private . 
There were echoes of it still in Mrs. Newsome's letters , and there were moments when these echoes made him exclaim on her want of tact . 
Her tact had to reckon with the Atlantic Ocean , the General Post Office and the extravagant curve of the globe . 
He had had full occasion to mention him as the other party , so oddly , to the only close personal alliance observation had as yet detected in Chad's existence . 
Something might possibly be extracted for the latter from the idea of his success with that lady , whose quick apprehension of what might amuse her had given Strether a free hand . 
He now showed his companion soon enough indeed how inadequate , as a general monitor , this last queer quantity could once more feel itself . 
Where do you see him come out ? Little Bilham , in meditation , looked at him with a kindness almost paternal . 
Don't you like it over here ? Strether laughed out for the tone was indeed droll he let himself go . 
What has that to do with it ? The only thing I've any business to like is to feel that I'm moving him . 
What creature do you mean ? It was on this that they did have for a little a mute interchange . 
Is it untrue that he's free ? How then , Strether asked wondering does he arrange his life ? Is the creature you mean Chad himself ? little Bilham said . 
Strether here , with a rising hope , just thought , We must take one of them at a time . 
IS there some woman ? Of whom he's really afraid of course I mean or who does with him what she likes . 
It's awfully charming of you , Bilham presently remarked , not to have asked me that before . 
Oh I'm not fit for my job ! The exclamation had escaped our friend , but it made little Bilham more deliberate . 
Chad's a rare case ! he luminously observed . 
He's awfully changed , he added . 
Then you see it too ? The way he has improved ? Oh yes I think every one must see it . 
But I'm not sure , said little Bilham , that I didn't like him about as well in his other state . 
Then this IS really a new state altogether ? Well , the young man after a moment returned , I'm not sure he was really meant by nature to be quite so good . 
It's like the new edition of an old book that one has been fond of revised and amended , brought up to date , but not quite the thing one knew and loved . 
However that may be at all events , he pursued , I don't think , you know , that he's really playing , as you call it , any game . 
I believe he really wants to go back and take up a career . 
He's capable of one , you know , that will improve and enlarge him still more . 
He won't then , little Bilham continued to remark , be my pleasant well rubbed old fashioned volume at all . 
But of course I'm beastly immoral . 
I'm afraid it would be a funny world altogether a world with things the way I like them . 
I ought , I dare say , to go home and go into business myself . 
Only I'd simply rather die simply . 
And I've not the least difficulty in making up my mind not to , and in knowing exactly why , and in defending my ground against all comers . 
All the same , he wound up , I assure you I don't say a word against it for himself , I mean to Chad . 
I seem to see it as much the best thing for him . 
You see he's not happy . 
DO I ? Strether stared . 
I've been supposing I see just the opposite an extraordinary case of the equilibrium arrived at and assured . 
Oh there's a lot behind it . 
Ah there you are ! Strether exclaimed . 
That's just what I want to get at . 
You speak of your familiar volume altered out of recognition . 
Well , who's the editor ? Little Bilham looked before him a minute in silence . 
He ought to get married . 
Wants to marry her ? Again little Bilham waited , and , with a sense that he had information , Strether scarce knew what was coming . 
He wants to be free . 
He isn't used , you see , the young man explained in his lucid way , to being so good . 
Then I may take it from you that he IS good ? His companion matched his pause , but making it up with a quiet fulness . 
DO take it from me . 
As the half hour meanwhile had ebbed Strether paid his score , and the waiter was presently in the act of counting out change . 
Our friend pushed back to him a fraction of it , with which , after an emphatic recognition , the personage in question retreated . 
You give too much , little Bilham permitted himself benevolently to observe . 
Oh I always give too much ! Strether helplessly sighed . 
But you don't , he went on as if to get quickly away from the contemplation of that doom , answer my question . 
Why isn't he free ? Little Bilham had got up as if the transaction with the waiter had been a signal , and had already edged out between the table and the divan . 
The effect of this was that a minute later they had quitted the place , the gratified waiter alert again at the open door . 
Strether had found himself deferring to his companion's abruptness as to a hint that he should be answered as soon as they were more isolated . 
This happened when after a few steps in the outer air they had turned the next comer . 
There our friend had kept it up . 
Why isn't he free if he's good ? Little Bilham looked him full in the face . 
Because it's a virtuous attachment . 
This had settled the question so effectually for the time that is for the next few days that it had given Strether almost a new lease of life . 
His imagination had in other words already dealt with his young friend's assertion of which it had made something that sufficiently came out on the very next occasion of his seeing Maria Gostrey . 
This occasion moreover had been determined promptly by a new circumstance a circumstance he was the last man to leave her for a day in ignorance of . 
They're the best friends he has in the world , and they take more interest than any one else in what concerns him . 
As I'm his next best he sees a thousand reasons why we should comfortably meet . 
He hasn't broached the question sooner because their return was uncertain seemed in fact for the present impossible . 
But he more than intimates that if you can believe it their desire to make my acquaintance has had to do with their surmounting difficulties . 
They're dying to see you ? Miss Gostrey asked . 
Of course , said Strether , they're the virtuous attachment . 
He had already told her about that had seen her the day after his talk with little Bilham and they had then threshed out together the bearing of the revelation . 
He had wanted from the first not to think too much of his dignity , but that was no reason for not allowing it any little benefit that might turn up . 
That had of course at the same time not deprived him of the further luxury of much private astonishment which however he had reduced to some order before communicating his knowledge . 
Didn't she believe the attachment was virtuous ? he had made sure of her again with the aid of that question . 
The tidings he brought her on this second occasion were moreover such as would help him to make surer still . 
She showed at first none the less as only amused . 
You say there are two ? An attachment to them both then would , I suppose , almost necessarily be innocent . 
Our friend took the point , but he had his clue . 
Mayn't he be still in the stage of not quite knowing which of them , mother or daughter , he likes best ? She gave it more thought . 
Oh it must be the daughter at his age . 
Yet what do we know , Strether asked , about hers ? She may be old enough . 
Old enough for what ? Why to marry Chad . 
That may be , you know , what they want . 
It was always the case for him in these counsels that each of his remarks , as it came , seemed to drop into a deeper well . 
He had at all events to wait a moment to hear the slight splash of this one . 
I don't see why if Mr. Newsome wants to marry the young lady he hasn't already done it or hasn't been prepared with some statement to you about it . 
And if he both wants to marry her and is on good terms with them why isn't he 'free' ? Strether , responsively , wondered indeed . 
Perhaps the girl herself doesn't like him . 
Then why does he speak of them to you as he does ? Strether's mind echoed the question , but also again met it . 
Perhaps it's with the mother he's on good terms . 
However , he went on , his marriage is what his mother most desires that is if it will help . 
And oughtn't ANY marriage to help ? They must want him he had already worked it out to be better off . 
Almost any girl he may marry will have a direct interest in his taking up his chances . 
It won't suit HER at least that he shall miss them . 
No you reason well ! But of course on the other hand there's always dear old Woollett itself . 
Oh yes , he mused there's always dear old Woollett itself . 
The young lady mayn't find herself able to swallow THAT quantity . 
She may think it's paying too much she may weigh one thing against another . 
Strether , ever restless in such debates , took a vague turn It will all depend on who she is . 
That of course the proved ability to deal with dear old Woollett , since I'm sure she does deal with it is what makes so strongly for Mamie . 
Mamie ? He stopped short , at her tone , before her then , though seeing that it represented not vagueness , but a momentary embarrassed fulness , let his exclamation come . 
You surely haven't forgotten about Mamie ! No , I haven't forgotten about Mamie , she smiled . 
There's no doubt whatever that there's ever so much to be said for her . 
Mamie's MY girl ! she roundly declared . 
Strether resumed for a minute his walk . 
She's really perfectly lovely , you know . 
Far prettier than any girl I've seen over here yet . 
That's precisely on what I perhaps most build . 
And she mused a moment in her friend's way . 
I should positively like to take her in hand ! He humoured the fancy , though indeed finally to deprecate it . 
Oh but don't , in your zeal , go over to her ! I need you most and can't , you know , be left . 
But she kept it up . 
Then he came out with the point he had wished after all most to make . 
It seems to give away now his game . 
This is what he has been doing keeping me along for . 
He has been waiting for them . 
Miss Gostrey drew in her lips . 
You see a good deal in it ! I doubt if I see as much as you . 
Do you pretend , he went on , that you don't see ? Well , what ? she pressed him as he paused . 
Why that there must be a lot between them and that it has been going on from the first even from before I came . 
She took a minute to answer . 
Who are they then if it's so grave ? It mayn't be grave it may be gay . 
But at any rate it's marked . 
Only I don't know , Strether had to confess , anything about them . 
Their name for instance was a thing that , after little Bilham's information , I found it a kind of refreshment not to feel obliged to follow up . 
Oh , she returned , if you think you've got off ! Her laugh produced in him a momentary gloom . 
I don't think I've got off . 
I only think I'm breathing for about five minutes . 
I dare say I SHALL have , at the best , still to get on . 
A look , over it all , passed between them , and the next minute he had come back to good humour . 
I don't meanwhile take the smallest interest in their name . 
Nor in their nationality ? American , French , English , Polish ? I don't care the least little 'hang , he smiled , for their nationality . 
It would be nice if they're Polish ! he almost immediately added . 
The transition kept up her spirits . 
So you see you do care . 
He did this contention a modified justice . 
I think I should if they WERE Polish . 
Yes , he thought there might be joy in THAT . 
Let us then hope for it . 
But she came after this nearer to the question . 
If the girl's of the right age of course the mother can't be . 
I mean for the virtuous attachment . 
If the girl's twenty and she can't be less the mother must be at least forty . 
So it puts the mother out . 
SHE'S too old for him . 
Strether , arrested again , considered and demurred . 
Do you think so ? Do you think any one would be too old for him ? I'M eighty , and I'm too young . 
But perhaps the girl , he continued , ISn't twenty . 
Perhaps she's only ten but such a little dear that Chad finds himself counting her in as an attraction of the acquaintance . 
Perhaps the mother's but five and twenty a charming young widow . 
Miss Gostrey entertained the suggestion . 
She IS a widow then ? I haven't the least idea ! They once more , in spite of this vagueness , exchanged a look a look that was perhaps the longest yet . 
It seemed in fact , the next thing , to require to explain itself which it did as it could . 
I only feel what I've told you that he has some reason . 
Miss Gostrey's imagination had taken its own flight . 
Perhaps she's NOT a widow . 
Strether seemed to accept the possibility with reserve . 
Then that's why the attachment if it's to her is virtuous . 
But she looked as if she scarce followed . 
Why is it virtuous if since she's free there's nothing to impose on it any condition ? He laughed at her question . 
He said nothing for a moment , and she soon went on . 
I dare say you're right , at any rate , about Mr. Newsome's little plan . 
He HAS been trying you has been reporting on you to these friends . 
Strether meanwhile had had time to think more . 
Then where's his straightness ? Well , as we say , it's struggling up , breaking out , asserting itself as it can . 
We can be on the side , you see , of his straightness . 
But he has made out , said Miss Gostrey , that you'll do . 
Do for what ? Why , for THEM for ces dames . 
He has watched you , studied you , liked you and recognised that THEY must . 
It's a great compliment to you , my dear man for I'm sure they're particular . 
You came out for a success . 
Well , she gaily declared , you're having it ! He took it from her with momentary patience and then turned abruptly away . 
It was always convenient to him that there were so many fine things in her room to look at . 
But the examination of two or three of them appeared soon to have determined a speech that had little to do with them . 
You don't believe in it ! In what ? In the character of the attachment . 
I don't pretend to know anything about it . 
See ? he echoed with a groan . 
Haven't we seen enough ? I haven't , she smiled . 
But do you suppose then little Bilham has lied ? You must find out . 
It made him almost turn pale . 
Find out any MORE ? He had dropped on a sofa for dismay but she seemed , as she stood over him , to have the last word . 
He had by this time , for all introductions and adventures , let himself recklessly go , cherishing the sense that whatever the young man showed him he was showing at least himself . 
He periodically assured himself for his reactions were sharp that he shouldn't reach the truth of anything till he had at least got rid of that . 
Never in fact had Strether in the mood into which the place had quickly launched him felt , for himself , less the need of an excuse . 
The day was so soft that the little party had practically adjourned to the open air but the open air was in such conditions all a chamber of state . 
The deep human expertness in Gloriani's charming smile oh the terrible life behind it ! was flashed upon him as a test of his stuff . 
Chad meanwhile , after having easily named his companion , had still more easily turned away and was already greeting other persons present . 
He liked Gloriani , but should never see him again of that he was sufficiently sure . 
Our friend hadn't come there only for this figure of Abel Newsome's son , but that presence threatened to affect the observant mind as positively central . 
Gloriani indeed , remembering something and excusing himself , pursued Chad to speak to him , and Strether was left musing on many things . 
One of them was the question of whether , since he had been tested , he had passed . 
Did the artist drop him from having made out that he wouldn't do ? He really felt just to day that he might do better than usual . 
If he had said to him on the instant what was uppermost he would have said HAVE I passed ? for of course I know one has to pass here . 
Oh they're every one all sorts and sizes of course I mean within limits , though limits down perhaps rather more than limits up . 
You can fancy his history on that side I believe it's fabulous they NEVER give him up . 
Yet he keeps them down no one knows how he manages it's too beautiful and bland . 
Never too many and a mighty good thing too just a perfect choice . 
But there are not in any way many bores it has always been so he has some secret . 
And you don't find it out . 
He's the same to every one . 
Ah doesn't he ? Strether laughed . 
Bilham met it with all his candour . 
How then should I be here ? Oh for what you tell me . 
You're part of the perfect choice . 
Well , the young man took in the scene . 
It seems rather good to day . 
Strether followed the direction of his eyes . 
Are they all , this time , femmes du monde ? Little Bilham showed his competence . 
This was a category our friend had a feeling for a light , romantic and mysterious , on the feminine element , in which he enjoyed for a little watching it . 
Are there any Poles ? His companion considered . 
I think I make out a 'Portuguee . 
Strether wondered , desiring justice . 
They seem all the women very harmonious . 
If you like it , you feel it , this way , that shows you're not in the least out But you always know things , he handsomely added , immediately . 
Strether liked it and felt it only too much so I say , don't lay traps for me ! he rather helplessly murmured . 
Well , his companion returned , he's wonderfully kind to us . 
To us Americans you mean ? Oh no he doesn't know anything about THAT . 
That's half the battle here that you can never hear politics . 
I mean to poor young wretches of all sorts . 
And yet it's always as charming as this it's as if , by something in the air , our squalor didn't show . 
It puts us all back into the last century . 
If I ask you about some of the ladies it can't be then that I may hope , as such a specimen of the rococo , to please them . 
You'll be secured ! It made Strether for a moment give himself again to contemplation . 
There were faces he scarce knew what to make of . 
Were they charming or were they only strange ? He mightn't talk politics , yet he suspected a Pole or two . 
The upshot was the question at the back of his head from the moment his friend had joined him . 
Have Madame de Vionnet and her daughter arrived ? I haven't seen them yet , but Miss Gostrey has come . 
She's in the pavilion looking at objects . 
One can see SHE'S a collector , little Bilham added without offence . 
Oh yes , she's a collector , and I knew she was to come . 
Is Madame de Vionnet a collector ? Strether went on . 
Rather , I believe almost celebrated . 
The young man met , on it , a little , his friend's eyes . 
I happen to know from Chad , whom I saw last night that they've come back but only yesterday . 
He wasn't sure up to the last . 
This , accordingly , little Bilham went on , will be if they ARE here their first appearance after their return . 
Strether , very quickly , turned these things over . 
Chad told you last night ? To me , on our way here , he said nothing about it . 
But did you ask him ? Strether did him the justice . 
Well , said little Bilham , you're not a person to whom it's easy to tell things you don't want to know . 
Though it is easy , I admit it's quite beautiful , he benevolently added , when you do want to . 
Strether looked at him with an indulgence that matched his intelligence . 
Is that the deep reasoning on which about these ladies you've been yourself so silent ? Little Bilham considered the depth of his reasoning . 
I spoke of them to you the other day , the day we sat together after Chad's tea party . 
Strether came round to it . 
They then are the virtuous attachment ? I can only tell you that it's what they pass for . 
Strether looked more widely round , and what he saw , from face to face , deepened the effect of his young friend's words . 
Is it so good ? Magnificent . 
The husband's dead ? Dear no . 
After which , as his companion laughed How then can it be so good ? You'll see for yourself . 
Chad's in love with the daughter ? That's what I mean . 
Then where's the difficulty ? Why , aren't you and I with our grander bolder ideas ? Oh mine ! Strether said rather strangely . 
But then as if to attenuate You mean they won't hear of Woollett ? Little Bilham smiled . 
Coming within sound of them she had already spoken , and she took again , through her long handled glass , all her amused and amusing possession . 
I've left him in the house with Miss Gostrey . 
Madame de Vionnet ? Oh , oh , oh ! Miss Barrace cried in a wonderful crescendo . 
There was more in it , our friend made out , than met the ear . 
Was it after all a joke that he should be serious about anything ? He envied Miss Barrace at any rate her power of not being . 
You could fairly hear , as she selected and pointed , the tap of her tortoise shell against the glass . 
It's certain that we do need seeing about only I'm glad it's not I who have to do it . 
One does , no doubt , begin that way then suddenly one finds that one has given it up . 
It's too much , it's too difficult . 
You're wonderful , you people , she continued to Strether , for not feeling those things by which I mean impossibilities . 
You face them with a fortitude that makes it a lesson to watch you . 
Ah but little Bilham put it with discouragement what do we achieve after all ? We see about you and report when we even go so far as reporting . 
Not even ! the young man woefully confessed they haven't gone through that form . 
They've simply the cannibals ! eaten me converted me if you like , but converted me into food . 
I'm but the bleached bones of a Christian . 
Well then there we are ! Only and Miss Barrace appealed again to Strether don't let it discourage you . 
You'll break down soon enough , but you'll meanwhile have had your moments . 
I always like to see you while you last . 
And I'll tell you who WILL last . 
Waymarsh ? he had already taken her up . 
She laughed out as at the alarm of it . 
He'll resist even Miss Gostrey so grand is it not to understand . 
He is indeed , Strether conceded . 
Then silently and secretly he turns up here with you . 
Do you call THAT 'lasting' ? Oh I hope it's lasting ! Miss Barrace said . 
But he only , at the best , bears with me . 
He doesn't understand not one little scrap . 
He's wonderful , she repeated . 
Michelangelesque ! little Bilham completed her meaning . 
Moses , on the ceiling , brought down to the floor overwhelming , colossal , but somehow portable . 
Certainly , if you mean by portable , she returned , looking so well in one's carriage . 
He's too funny beside me in his comer he looks like somebody , somebody foreign and famous , en exil so that people wonder it's very amusing whom I'm taking about . 
I show him Paris , show him everything , and he never turns a hair . 
He's like the Indian chief one reads about , who , when he comes up to Washington to see the Great Father , stands wrapt in his blanket and gives no sign . 
I might be the Great Father from the way he takes everything . 
She was delighted at this hit of her identity with that personage it fitted so her character she declared it was the title she meant henceforth to adopt . 
But he's wonderful , Miss Barrace once more insisted . 
He has never started anything yet . 
But he had also another reflexion . 
You've all of you here so much visual sense that you've somehow all 'run' to it . 
There are moments when it strikes one that you haven't any other . 
Any moral , little Bilham explained , watching serenely , across the garden , the several femmes du monde . 
But Miss Barrace has a moral distinction , he kindly continued speaking as if for Strether's benefit not less than for her own . 
HAVE you ? Strether , scarce knowing what he was about , asked of her almost eagerly . 
Oh not a distinction she was mightily amused at his tone Mr. Bilham's too good . 
But I think I may say a sufficiency . 
Have you supposed strange things of me ? and she fixed him again , through all her tortoise shell , with the droll interest of it . 
You ARE all indeed wonderful . 
I should awfully disappoint you . 
I do take my stand on my sufficiency . 
But I know , I confess , she went on , strange people . 
But how can it be helped ? We're all looking at each other and in the light of Paris one sees what things resemble . 
That's what the light of Paris seems always to show . 
It's the fault of the light of Paris dear old light ! Dear old Paris ! little Bilham echoed . 
Everything , every one shows , Miss Barrace went on . 
But for what they really are ? Strether asked . 
Oh I like your Boston 'reallys' ! But sometimes yes . 
Dear old Paris then ! Strether resignedly sighed while for a moment they looked at each other . 
Then he broke out Does Madame de Vionnet do that ? I mean really show for what she is ? Her answer was prompt . 
Then why did you a minute ago say 'Oh , oh , oh ! at her name ? She easily remembered . 
Why just because ! She's wonderful . 
Ah she too ? Strether had almost a groan . 
But Miss Barrace had meanwhile perceived relief . 
He has come to take you to her . 
II On which Strether saw that Chad was again at hand , and he afterwards scarce knew , absurd as it may seem , what had then quickly occurred . 
It was one of the connexions though really why it should be , after all , was none so apparent in which the whole change in him came out as most striking . 
Strether recalled as they approached the house that he had impressed him that first night as knowing how to enter a box . 
Well , he impressed him scarce less now as knowing how to make a presentation . 
Chad had left her in the house , but she had afterwards come halfway and then the next moment had joined them in the garden . 
There were precautions , he seemed indeed to see , only when there were really dangers . 
Later on he was to feel many more of them , but by that time he was to feel other things besides . 
It was indeed , after he had gone off , as if he had been partly serious too . 
The evidence as yet in truth was meagre which , for that matter , was perhaps a little why his expectation had had a drop . 
There was somehow not quite a wealth in her and a wealth was all that , in his simplicity , he had definitely prefigured . 
Still , it was too much to be sure already that there was but a poverty . 
They moved away from the house , and , with eyes on a bench at some distance , he proposed that they should sit down . 
I've heard a great deal about you , she said as they went but he had an answer to it that made her stop short . 
It hadn't at any rate been in the least his idea to spy on Chad's proper freedom . 
It was possibly , however , at this very instant and under the impression of Madame de Vionnet's pause , that going straight began to announce itself as a matter for care . 
She had only after all to smile at him ever so gently in order to make him ask himself if he weren't already going crooked . 
It might be going crooked to find it of a sudden just only clear that she intended very definitely to be what he would have called nice to him . 
This was what passed between them while , for another instant , they stood still he couldn't at least remember afterwards what else it might have been . 
The thing indeed really unmistakeable was its rolling over him as a wave that he had been , in conditions incalculable and unimaginable , a subject of discussion . 
He had been , on some ground that concerned her , answered for which gave her an advantage he should never be able to match . 
Something not as yet traceable , at all events . 
I didn't even know of her knowing you . 
Well , now she'll tell you all . 
I'm so glad you're in relation with her . 
This was one of the things the all Miss Gostrey would now tell him that , with every deference to present preoccupation , was uppermost for Strether after they had taken their seat . 
She did come out , and certainly to his relief , but she came out as the usual thing . 
There might be motives behind , but so could there often be even at Woollett . 
Ah she was neither Turk nor Pole ! which would be indeed flat once more for Mrs. Newsome and Mrs. Pocock . 
A lady and two gentlemen had meanwhile , however , approached their bench , and this accident stayed for the time further developments . 
of noses ? some such loose handful of bright flowers she seemed , fragrantly enough , to fling at him . 
Strether almost wondered at such a pace was he going if some divination of the influence of either party were what determined Madame de Vionnet's abstention . 
His French had quickly turned to equal English , and it occurred to Strether that he might well be one of the ambassadors . 
He sank again upon his bench and , while his eyes followed the party , reflected , as he had done before , on Chad's strange communities . 
He hadn't yet had so quiet a surrender he didn't in the least care if nobody spoke to him more . 
He replied with a Well ! intended to show that he wasn't floored in the least . 
It wasn't a descent to earth to say after an instant and in sustained response to the reference You're quite sure her husband's living ? Oh dear , yes . 
Ah then ! Ah then what ? Strether had after all to think . 
Well , I'm sorry for them . 
But it didn't for the moment matter more than that . 
He assured his young friend he was quite content . 
They wouldn't stir were all right as they were . 
He didn't want to be introduced had been introduced already about as far as he could go . 
It had consciously gathered to a head , but the reservoir had filled sooner than he knew , and his companion's touch was to make the waters spread . 
There were some things that had to come in time if they were to come at all . 
If they didn't come in time they were lost for ever . 
It was the general sense of them that had overwhelmed him with its long slow rush . 
All the same don't forget that you're young blessedly young be glad of it on the contrary and live up to it . 
Live all you can it's a mistake not to . 
It doesn't so much matter what you do in particular , so long as you have your life . 
I haven't done so enough before and now I'm old too old at any rate for what I see . 
Oh I DO see , at least and more than you'd believe or I can express . 
And it's as if the train had fairly waited at the station for me without my having had the gumption to know it was there . 
Now I hear its faint receding whistle miles and miles down the line . 
What one loses one loses make no mistake about that . 
Still , one has the illusion of freedom therefore don't be , like me , without the memory of that illusion . 
I was either , at the right time , too stupid or too intelligent to have it I don't quite know which . 
Of course at present I'm a case of reaction against the mistake and the voice of reaction should , no doubt , always be taken with an allowance . 
But that doesn't affect the point that the right time is now yours . 
The right time is ANY time that one is still so lucky as to have . 
You've plenty that's the great thing you're , as I say , damn you , so happily and hatefully young . 
Don't at any rate miss things out of stupidity . 
Of course I don't take you for a fool , or I shouldn't be addressing you thus awfully . 
Do what you like so long as you don't make MY mistake . 
For it was a mistake . 
Slowly and sociably , with full pauses and straight dashes , Strether had so delivered himself holding little Bilham from step to step deeply and gravely attentive . 
The end of all was that the young man had turned quite solemn , and that this was a contradiction of the innocent gaiety the speaker had wished to promote . 
Little Bilham continued to think , but at last had a smile . 
Well , you ARE amusing to ME . 
Impayable , as you say , no doubt . 
Yet it made him admire most of the two , made him envy , the glossy male tiger , magnificently marked . 
These absurdities of the stirred sense , fruits of suggestion ripening on the instant , were all reflected in his next words to little Bilham . 
He had just made out , in the now full picture , something and somebody else another impression had been superimposed . 
A young girl in a white dress and a softly plumed white hat had suddenly come into view , and what was presently clear was that her course was toward them . 
What was clearest of all indeed was something much more than this , something at the single stroke of which and wasn't it simply juxtaposition ? all vagueness vanished . 
It was the click of a spring he saw the truth . 
Oh Chad ! it was that rare youth he should have enjoyed being like . 
Chad brought her straight up to him , and Chad was , oh yes , at this moment for the glory of Woollett or whatever better still even than Gloriani . 
He had plucked this blossom he had kept it over night in water and at last as he held it up to wonder he did enjoy his effect . 
What young man had ever paraded about that way , without a reason , a maiden in her flower ? And there was nothing in his reason at present obscure . 
Her type sufficiently told of it they wouldn't , they couldn't , want her to go to Woollett . 
Poor Woollett , and what it might miss ! though brave Chad indeed too , and what it might gain ! Brave Chad however had just excellently spoken . 
This is a good little friend of mine who knows all about you and has moreover a message for you . 
She stood there quite pink , a little frightened , prettier and prettier and not a bit like her mother . 
There was in this last particular no resemblance but that of youth to youth and here was in fact suddenly Strether's sharpest impression . 
She has something important to say to you . 
She quite reproaches herself , Chad helpfully explained you were interesting her so much when she accidentally suffered you to be interrupted . 
Ah don't mention it ! Strether murmured , looking kindly from one to the other and wondering at many things . 
And I'm to ask you for myself , Jeanne continued with her hands clasped together as if in some small learnt prayer I'm to ask you for myself if you won't positively come . 
Leave it to me , dear I'll take care of it ! Chad genially declared in answer to this , while Strether himself almost held his breath . 
What was in the girl was indeed too soft , too unknown for direct dealing so that one could only gaze at it as at a picture , quite staying one's own hand . 
But with Chad he was now on ground Chad he could meet so pleasant a confidence in that and in everything did the young man freely exhale . 
There was the whole of a story in his tone to his companion , and he spoke indeed as if already of the family . 
It made Strether guess the more quickly what it might be about which Madame de Vionnet was so urgent . 
He already saw himself discussing with this lady the attractions of Woollett as a residence for Chad's companion . 
But there was no mistaking at last Chad's pride in the display of such a connexion . 
They would all meet again soon , and Strether was meanwhile to stay and amuse himself I'll pick you up again in plenty of time . 
They disappeared among the others and apparently into the house whereupon our friend turned round to give out to little Bilham the conviction of which he was full . 
III Chad was not in fact on this occasion to keep his promise of coming back but Miss Gostrey had soon presented herself with an explanation of his failure . 
There had been reasons at the last for his going off with ces dames and he had asked her with much instance to come out and take charge of their friend . 
She did so , Strether felt as she took her place beside him , in a manner that left nothing to desire . 
With the one she had now picked up in her hands there need be at least no waste of wonder . 
She's coming to see me that's for YOU , Strether's counsellor continued but I don't require it to know where I am . 
The waste of wonder might be proscribed but Strether , characteristically , was even by this time in the immensity of space . 
By which you mean that you know where SHE is ? She just hesitated . 
I mean that if she comes to see me I shall now that I've pulled myself round a bit after the shock not be at home . 
You call it your recognition a shock ? She gave one of her rare flickers of impatience . 
It was a surprise , an emotion . 
I wash my hands of her . 
She's impossible ? She's even more charming than I remembered her . 
Then what's the matter ? She had to think how to put it . 
He looked at her an instant . 
I see where you're coming out . 
Because I wish to keep out of the business . 
It provoked in him a weak wail . 
You're going to abandon me NOW ? No , I'm only going to abandon HER . 
She'll want me to help her with you . 
Twenty three years put them both on , no doubt and Madame de Vionnet though she had married straight after school couldn't be today an hour less than thirty eight . 
She would be of all mothers in law the most charming unless indeed , through some perversity as yet insupposeable , she should utterly belie herself in that relation . 
It was no test there when indeed WAS it a test there ? for Monsieur de Vionnet had been a brute . 
She was so amiable that nobody had had a word to say which was luckily not the case for her husband . 
He was so impossible that she had the advantage of all her merits . 
It was all special it was all , for Strether's imagination , more or less rich . 
You might confess to her with confidence in Roumelian , and even Roumelian sins . 
Therefore ! But Strether's narrator covered her implication with a laugh a laugh by which his betrayal of a sense of the lurid in the picture was also perhaps sufficiently protected . 
He had a moment of wondering , while his friend went on , what sins might be especially Roumelian . 
Miss Gostrey had understood enough to see , essentially , what had happened , and yet had beautifully dreamed that she was herself faultless . 
There were doubtless depths in her , but she was all right Strether would see if she wasn't . 
Her situation too had evidently cleared itself up there would have been all that was possible a judicial separation . 
She had settled in Paris , brought up her daughter , steered her boat . 
It was no very pleasant boat especially there to be in but Marie de Vionnet would have headed straight . 
She would have friends , certainly and very good ones . 
There she was at all events and it was very interesting . 
Her knowing Mr. Chad didn't in the least prove she hadn't friends what it proved was what good ones HE had . 
I saw that , said Miss Gostrey , that night at the Francais it came out for me in three minutes . 
I saw HER or somebody like her . 
And so , she immediately added , did you . 
Oh no not anybody like her ! Strether laughed . 
But you mean , he as promptly went on , that she has had such an influence on him ? Miss Gostrey was on her feet it was time for them to go . 
She has brought him up for her daughter . 
Their eyes , as so often , in candid conference , through their settled glasses , met over it long after which Strether's again took in the whole place . 
They were quite alone there now . 
Mustn't she rather in the time then have rushed it ? Ah she won't of course have lost an hour . 
But that's just the good mother the good French one . 
You must remember that of her that as a mother she's French , and that for them there's a special providence . 
It precisely however that she mayn't have been able to begin as far back as she'd have liked makes her grateful for aid . 
Strether took this in as they slowly moved to the house on their way out . 
She counts on me then to put the thing through ? Yes she counts on you . 
Oh and first of all of course , Miss Gostrey added , on her well , convincing you . 
Ah , her friend returned , she caught Chad young ! Yes , but there are women who are for all your 'times of life . 
They're the most wonderful sort . 
She had laughed the words out , but they brought her companion , the next thing , to a stand . 
Is what you mean that she'll try to make a fool of me ? Well , I'm wondering what she WILL with an opportunity make . 
What do you call , Strether asked , an opportunity ? My going to see her ? Ah you must go to see her Miss Gostrey was a trifle evasive . 
You can't not do that . 
You'd have gone to see the other woman . 
I mean if there had been one a different sort . 
It's what you came out for . 
It might be but Strether distinguished . 
I didn't come out to see THIS sort . 
She had a wonderful look at him now . 
Are you disappointed she isn't worse ? He for a moment entertained the question , then found for it the frankest of answers . 
If she were worse she'd be better for our purpose . 
But won't this be pleasanter ? Ah you know , he promptly replied , I didn't come out wasn't that just what you originally reproached me with ? for the pleasant . 
Therefore I say again what I said at first . 
You must take things as they come . 
Besides , Miss Gostrey added , I'm not afraid for myself . 
For yourself ? Of your seeing her . 
There's nothing she'll say about me . 
In fact there's nothing she CAN . 
Strether wondered little as he had thought of this . 
Oh you women ! There was something in it at which she flushed . 
But I risk her ! He gave himself a shake . 
Well then so do I ! But he added as they passed into the house that he would see Chad the first thing in the morning . 
This was the next day the more easily effected that the young man , as it happened , even before he was down , turned up at his hotel . 
Strether took his coffee , by habit , in the public room but on his descending for this purpose Chad instantly proposed an adjournment to what he called greater privacy . 
It was the first time Chad had to that extent given this personage away and Strether found himself wondering of what it was symptomatic . 
It was sufficiently flattering however that the real thing if this WAS at last the real thing should have been determined , as appeared , precisely by an accretion of Strether's importance . 
Madame de Vionnet wouldn't , couldn't rest till she should have some assurance from him that he WOULD consent again to see her . 
See here that was all he only for the moment said again See here . 
The young Pagan , while a long look passed between them , sufficiently understood . 
Strether scarce needed at last to say the rest I want to know where I am . 
But he said it , adding before any answer something more . 
I have no secret though I may have secrets ! I haven't at any rate that one . 
No. Then where's the hitch ? Do you mean why I haven't already started with you ? Chad , beginning his coffee and buttering his roll , was quite ready to explain . 
Nothing would have induced me nothing will still induce me not to try to keep you here as long as you can be made to stay . 
It's too visibly good for you . 
Strether had himself plenty to say about this , but it was amusing also to measure the march of Chad's tone . 
Chad kept it up beautifully . 
My idea voyons ! is simply that you should let Madame de Vionnet know you , simply that you should consent to know HER . 
I don't in the least mind telling you that , clever and charming as she is , she's ever so much in my confidence . 
All I ask of you is to let her talk to you . 
You've asked me about what you call my hitch , and so far as it goes she'll explain it to you . 
She's herself my hitch , hang it if you must really have it all out . 
But in a sense , he hastened in the most wonderful manner to add , that you'll quite make out for yourself . 
She's too good a friend , confound her . 
Too good , I mean , for me to leave without without It was his first hesitation . 
Without what ? Well , without my arranging somehow or other the damnable terms of my sacrifice . 
It WILL be a sacrifice then ? It will be the greatest loss I ever suffered . 
I owe her so much . 
It was beautiful , the way Chad said these things , and his plea was now confessedly oh quite flagrantly and publicly interesting . 
The moment really took on for Strether an intensity . 
What was this at bottom but what had been to be arrived at ? Strether sat there arriving at it while he munched toast and stirred his second cup . 
To do this with the aid of Chad's pleasant earnest face was also to do more besides . 
No , never before had he been so ready to take him as he was . 
What was it that had suddenly so cleared up ? It was just everybody's character that is everybody's but in a measure his own . 
Strether felt HIS character receive for the instant a smutch from all the wrong things he had suspected or believed . 
All of which was vivid enough to come and go quickly though indeed in the midst of it Strether could utter a question . 
Have I your word of honour that if I surrender myself to Madame de Vionnet you'll surrender yourself to me ? Chad laid his hand firmly on his friend's . 
My dear man , you have it . 
There was finally something in his felicity almost embarrassing and oppressive Strether had begun to fidget under it for the open air and the erect posture . 
Over was over the river , and over the river was where Madame de Vionnet lived , and five was that very afternoon . 
They got at last out of the place got out before he answered . 
He lighted , in the street , a cigarette , which again gave him more time . 
But it was already sharp for him that there was no use in time . 
What does she propose to do to me ? he had presently demanded . 
Are you afraid of her ? Oh immensely . 
Don't you see it ? Well , said Chad , she won't do anything worse to you than make you like her . 
It's just of that I'm afraid . 
Then it's not fair to me . 
It's fair to your mother . 
Oh , said Chad , are you afraid of HER ? Scarcely less . 
But is this lady against your interests at home ? Strether went on . 
Not directly , no doubt but she's greatly in favour of them here . 
And what 'here' does she consider them to be ? Well , good relations ! With herself ? With herself . 
And what is it that makes them so good ? What ? Well , that's exactly what you'll make out if you'll only go , as I'm supplicating you , to see her . 
Strether stared at him with a little of the wanness , no doubt , that the vision of more to make out could scarce help producing . 
I mean HOW good are they ? Oh awfully good . 
Again Strether had faltered , but it was brief . 
It was all very well , but there was nothing now he wouldn't risk . 
Excuse me , but I must really as I began by telling you know where I am . 
Is she bad ? 'Bad' ? Chad echoed it , but without a shock . 
What indeed was he talking about ? His stare had relaxed he looked now all round him . 
But something in him brought him back , though he still didn't know quite how to turn it . 
The two or three ways he thought of , and one of them in particular , were , even with scruples dismissed , too ugly . 
He none the less at last found something . 
The young man spoke so immensely to the point that the effect was practically of positive blandness . 
He'll interest you immensely and as for her , he declared to Strether , I assure you , if you're at all nervous , she's perfectly safe . 
He escaped it himself , to his surprise but he had grown used by this time to thinking of himself as brazen . 
She occupied , his hostess , in the Rue de Bellechasse , the first floor of an old house to which our visitors had had access from an old clean court . 
He seemed at the very outset to see her in the midst of possessions not vulgarly numerous , but hereditary cherished charming . 
His attention took them all tenderly into account . 
When she hadn't been quiet she had been moved at the most to some occult charity for some fallen fortune . 
There had been objects she or her predecessors might even conceivably have parted with under need , but Strether couldn't suspect them of having sold old pieces to get better ones . 
They would have felt no difference as to better or worse . 
He could but imagine their having felt perhaps in emigration , in proscription , for his sketch was slight and confused the pressure of want or the obligation of sacrifice . 
He guessed at intense little preferences and sharp little exclusions , a deep suspicion of the vulgar and a personal view of the right . 
The air of supreme respectability that was a strange blank wall for his adventure to have brought him to break his nose against . 
At bottom of it all for him was the sense of her rare unlikeness to the women he had known . 
This sense had grown , since the day before , the more he recalled her , and had been above all singularly fed by his talk with Chad in the morning . 
Everything in fine made her immeasurably new , and nothing so new as the old house and the old objects . 
On another table , across the room , he made out the great Revue but even that familiar face , conspicuous in Mrs. Newsome's parlours , scarce counted here as a modern note . 
He was sure on the spot and he afterwards knew he was right that this was a touch of Chad's own hand . 
Madame de Vionnet , while Strether sat there , wasn't to shift her posture by an inch . 
I don't think you seriously believe in what you're doing , she said but all the same , you know , I'm going to treat you quite as if I did . 
By which you mean , Strether directly replied , quite as if you didn't ! I assure you it won't make the least difference with me how you treat me . 
Well , she said , taking that menace bravely and philosophically enough , the only thing that really matters is that you shall get on with me . 
Ah but I don't ! he immediately returned . 
It gave her another pause which , however , she happily enough shook off . 
He might have been perched at his door step or at his window and she standing in the road . 
For a moment he let her stand and couldn't moreover have spoken . 
It had been sad , of a sudden , with a sadness that was like a cold breath in his face . 
She spoke at present , he saw , as if to take courageously ALL her risk . 
This is my own idea and a different thing . 
It gave poor Strether in truth uneasy as it made him too something of the thrill of a bold perception justified . 
Well , he answered kindly enough , I was sure a moment since that some idea of your own had come to you . 
She seemed still to look up at him , but now more serenely . 
I made out you were sure and that helped it to come . 
So you see , she continued , we do get on . 
Oh but it appears to me I don't at all meet your request . 
How can I when I don't understand it ? It isn't at all necessary you should understand it will do quite well enough if you simply remember it . 
Only feel I trust you and for nothing so tremendous after all . 
Just , she said with a wonderful smile , for common civility . 
Strether had a long pause while they sat again face to face , as they had sat , scarce less conscious , before the poor lady had crossed the stream . 
She was the poor lady for Strether now because clearly she had some trouble , and her appeal to him could only mean that her trouble was deep . 
He couldn't help it it wasn't his fault he had done nothing but by a turn of the hand she had somehow made their encounter a relation . 
You count upon me of course for something really much greater than it sounds . 
Oh it sounds great enough too ! she laughed at this . 
He found himself in time on the point of telling her that she was , as Miss Barrace called it , wonderful but , catching himself up , he said something else instead . 
What was it Chad's idea then that you should say to me ? Ah his idea was simply what a man's idea always is to put every effort off on the woman . 
The 'woman' ? Strether slowly echoed . 
The woman he likes and just in proportion as he likes her . 
In proportion too for shifting the trouble as she likes HIM . 
Strether followed it then with an abruptness of his own How much do you like Chad ? Just as much as THAT to take all , with you , on myself . 
But she got at once again away from this . 
That's at all events , clearly , he observed after an instant , the way I don't strike YOU . 
Well , she so far assented , as you haven't yet said you WON'T have the little patience with me I ask for You draw splendid conclusions ? Perfectly . 
But I don't understand them , Strether pursued . 
You seem to me to ask for much more than you need . 
What , at the worst for you , what at the best for myself , can I after all do ? I can use no pressure that I haven't used . 
You come really late with your request . 
I've already done all that for myself the case admits of . 
I've said my say , and here I am . 
Yes , here you are , fortunately ! Madame de Vionnet laughed . 
Mrs. Newsome , she added in another tone , didn't think you can do so little . 
He had an hesitation , but he brought the words out . 
Well , she thinks so now . 
Do you mean by that ? But she also hung fire . 
Do I mean what ? She still rather faltered . 
Has she given you up ? He was amazed afterwards to think how simply and quietly he had met it . 
It was almost as if he were a trifle disappointed had expected still more of her freedom . 
But he went straight on . 
Is that what Chad has told you will happen to me ? She was evidently charmed with the way he took it . 
If you mean if we've talked of it most certainly . 
And the question's not what has had least to do with my wishing to see you . 
To judge if I'm the sort of man a woman CAN ? Precisely , she exclaimed you wonderful gentleman ! I do judge I HAVE judged . 
You're safe with every right to be . 
You'd be much happier if you'd only believe it . 
Strether was silent a little then he found himself speaking with a cynicism of confidence of which even at the moment the sources were strange to him . 
I try to believe it . 
But it's a marvel , he exclaimed , how YOU already get at it ! Oh she was able to say . 
Remember how much I was on the way to it through Mr. Newsome before I saw you . 
He thinks everything of your strength . 
Well , I can bear almost anything ! our friend briskly interrupted . 
Deep and beautiful on this her smile came back , and with the effect of making him hear what he had said just as she had heard it . 
She certainly had been a fact of rapid growth but the world was wide , each day was more and more a new lesson . 
There were at any rate even among the stranger ones relations and relations . 
Of course I suit Chad's grand way , he quickly added . 
He hasn't had much difficulty in working me in . 
She seemed to deny a little , on the young man's behalf , by the rise of her eyebrows , an intention of any process at all inconsiderate . 
You must know how grieved he'd be if you were to lose anything . 
He believes you can keep his mother patient . 
Strether wondered with his eyes on her . 
THAT'S then what you really want of me . 
And how am I to do it ? Perhaps you'll tell me that . 
Simply tell her the truth . 
And what do you call the truth ? Well , any truth about us all that you see yourself . 
I leave it to you . 
I like , Strether laughed with a slight harshness , the way you leave things ! But she insisted kindly , gently , as if it wasn't so bad . 
All ? he oddly echoed . 
Tell her the simple truth , Madame de Vionnet again pleaded . 
But what is the simple truth ? The simple truth is exactly what I'm trying to discover . 
She looked about a while , but presently she came back to him . 
Tell her , fully and clearly , about US . 
Strether meanwhile had been staring . 
You and your daughter ? Yes little Jeanne and me . 
Tell her , she just slightly quavered , you like us . 
And what good will that do me ? Or rather he caught himself up what good will it do YOU ? She looked graver . 
None , you believe , really ? Strether debated . 
She didn't send me out to 'like' you . 
Oh , she charmingly contended , she sent you out to face the facts . 
He admitted after an instant that there was something in that . 
And he really doesn't want to himself ? She repeated the movement , but now with a strange light in her face . 
He likes her too much . 
We watch over her , and you must help us . 
You must see her again . 
Ah with pleasure she's so remarkably attractive . 
The mother's eagerness with which Madame de Vionnet jumped at this was to come back to him later as beautiful in its grace . 
The dear thing DID please you ? Then as he met it with the largest Oh ! of enthusiasm She's perfect . 
Well , I'm sure that if one were near her and saw more of her she'd be mine . 
Then , said Madame de Vionnet , tell Mrs. Newsome that ! He wondered the more . 
What good will that do you ? As she appeared unable at once to say , however , he brought out something else . 
Is your daughter in love with our friend ? Ah , she rather startlingly answered , I wish you'd find out ! He showed his surprise . 
I ? A stranger ? Oh you won't be a stranger presently . 
You shall see her quite , I assure you , as if you weren't . 
It remained for him none the less an extraordinary notion . 
It seems to me surely that if her mother can't Ah little girls and their mothers to day ! she rather inconsequently broke in . 
But she checked herself with something she seemed to give out as after all more to the point . 
Tell her I've been good for him . 
Don't you think I have ? It had its effect on him more than at the moment he quite measured . 
Yet he was consciously enough touched . 
Oh if it's all you ! Well , it may not be 'all , she interrupted , but it's to a great extent . 
Really and truly , she added in a tone that was to take its place with him among things remembered . 
He smiled at her from a face that he felt as strained , and her own face for a moment kept him so . 
At last she also got up . 
He heard himself use the exorbitant word , the very sound of which helped to determine his flight . 
I'll save you if I can . 
II In Chad's lovely home , however , one evening ten days later , he felt himself present at the collapse of the question of Jeanne de Vionnet's shy secret . 
The young man had put this to him as a favour I should like so awfully to know what you think of her . 
It will be an impression that whatever else you take you can carry home with you , where you'll find again so much to compare it with . 
He was as far as ever from making out exactly to what end but he was none the less constantly accompanied by a sense of the service he rendered . 
He failed quite to see how his situation could clear up at all logically except by some turn of events that would give him the pretext of disgust . 
He was building from day to day on the possibility of disgust , but each day brought forth meanwhile a new and more engaging bend of the road . 
He struck himself as a little nearer to it only when he asked himself what service , in such a life of utility , he was after all rendering Mrs. Newsome . 
When at rare moments and in the watches of the night he pounced on one it generally showed itself to be to a deeper scrutiny not quite truly of the essence . 
He had begged the young man would present his excuses and had trusted him to understand that it couldn't really strike one as quite the straight thing . 
What Chad had understood could only , in truth , be inferred from Chad's behaviour , which had been in this connexion as easy as in every other . 
Then he had remarked making the most of the advantage of his years that it frightened him quite enough to find himself dedicated to the entertainment of a little foreign girl . 
There were girls he wasn't afraid of he was quite bold with little Americans . 
Thus it was that she had defended herself to the end Oh but I'm almost American too . 
That's what mamma has wanted me to be I mean LIKE that for she has wanted me to have lots of freedom . 
She has known such good results from it . 
Little Jeanne wasn't , doubtless , to die young , but one couldn't , all the same , bear on her lightly enough . 
Odious really the question of a young man one didn't treat such a person as a maid servant suspected of a follower . 
And then young men , young men well , the thing was their business simply , or was at all events hers . 
She spoke the prettiest English , our friend thought , that he had ever heard spoken , just as he had believed her a few minutes before to be speaking the prettiest French . 
Only by this time he felt her flutter to have fortunately dropped and that she was more at her ease . 
She trusted him , liked him , and it was to come back to him afterwards that she had told him things . 
At the end of the ten minutes he was to spend with her his impression with all it had thrown off and all it had taken in was complete . 
She had been free , as she knew freedom , partly to show him that , unlike other little persons she knew , she had imbibed that ideal . 
She was delightfully quaint about herself , but the vision of what she had imbibed was what most held him . 
He couldn't of course on so short an acquaintance speak for her nature , but the idea of breeding was what she had meanwhile dropped into his mind . 
He had never yet known it so sharply presented . 
He has wonderful taste , notre jeune homme this was what Gloriani said to him on turning away from the inspection of a small picture suspended near the door of the room . 
Strether was conscious at this instant , for that matter , as he hadn't yet been , of how , round about him , quite without him , they WERE consistently settled . 
He threw out the bridge of a charming hollow civility on which Strether wouldn't have trusted his own full weight a moment . 
The point itself , no doubt , was what was antique , and the use she made of it what was modern . 
He stared a moment at the image of such a conjunction then , for Miss Barrace's benefit , he wondered . 
Is she too then under the charm ? No , not a bit Miss Barrace was prompt . 
She makes nothing of him . 
She won't help you with him . 
Oh , Strether laughed , she can't do everything . 
Of course not wonderful as she is . 
Besides , he makes nothing of HER . 
She won't take him from me though she wouldn't , no doubt , having other affairs in hand , even if she could . 
I've never , said Miss Barrace , seen her fail with any one before . 
And to night , when she's so magnificent , it would seem to her strange if she minded . 
So at any rate I have him all . 
Je suis tranquille ! '' Strether understood , so far as that went but he was feeling for his clue . 
She strikes you to night as particularly magnificent ? Surely . 
Almost as I've never seen her . 
Doesn't she you ? Why it's FOR you . 
He persisted in his candour . 
'For' me ? Oh , oh , oh ! cried Miss Barrace , who persisted in the opposite of that quality . 
Well , he acutely admitted , she IS different . 
She's gay ! Miss Barrace laughed . 
And she has beautiful shoulders though there's nothing different in that . 
No , said Strether , one was sure of her shoulders . 
His companion , with renewed mirth and the finest sense , between the puffs of her cigarette , of the drollery of things , appeared to find their conversation highly delightful . 
Yes , it isn't her shoulders . 
What then is it ? Strether earnestly enquired . 
Why , it's SHE simply . 
Of course it's her charm , but we're speaking of the difference . 
Well , Miss Barrace explained , she's just brilliant , as we used to say . 
Ah but only one Strether kept it clear at a time . 
But in fifty times ! Oh we shan't come to that , our friend declared and the next moment he had moved in another direction . 
Will you answer me a plain question ? Will she ever divorce ? Miss Barrace looked at him through all her tortoise shell . 
Why should she ? It wasn't what he had asked for , he signified but he met it well enough . 
Why should she marry Chad ? Because I'm convinced she's very fond of him . 
She has done wonders for him . 
The wonder is their doing such things without marrying . 
Strether considered a moment this proposition . 
You mean it's so beautiful for our friends simply to go on so ? But whatever he said made her laugh . 
And THAT because it's disinterested ? She was now , however , suddenly tired of the question . 
Yes then call it that . 
Besides , she'll never divorce . 
Don't , moreover , she added , believe everything you hear about her husband . 
He's not then , Strether asked , a wretch ? Oh yes . 
Do you know him ? I've met him . 
To every one but his wife ? Oh for all I know , to her too to any , to every woman . 
I hope you at any rate , she pursued with a quick change , appreciate the care I take of Mr. Waymarsh . 
But Strether was not yet in line . 
At all events , he roundly brought out , the attachment's an innocent one . 
Mine and his ? Ah , she laughed , don't rob it of ALL interest ! I mean our friend's here to the lady we've been speaking of . 
That was what he had settled to as an indirect but none the less closely involved consequence of his impression of Jeanne . 
That was where he meant to stay . 
It's innocent , he repeated I see the whole thing . 
He looked hard for an instant at Miss Barrace , but she had already gone on . 
All right with Mr. Newsome ? Why of course she is ! and she got gaily back to the question of her own good friend . 
I dare say you're surprised that I'm not worn out with all I see it being so much ! of Sitting Bull . 
But I'm not , you know I don't mind him I bear up , and we get on beautifully . 
I'm very strange I'm like that and often I can't explain . 
Then after she had smoked a moment , He's touching , you know , she said . 
'Know' ? Strether echoed don't I , indeed ? We must move you almost to tears . 
Oh but I don't mean YOU ! she laughed . 
You ought to then , for the worst sign of all as I must have it for you is that you can't help me . 
That's when a woman pities . 
Ah but I do help you ! she cheerfully insisted . 
Again he looked at her hard , and then after a pause No you don't ! Her tortoise shell , on its long chain , rattled down . 
I help you with Sitting Bull . 
Do you mean he talks of me ? So that I have to defend you ? No , never . 
I see , Strether mused . 
That's his only fault , she returned that everything , with him , is too deep . 
He has depths of silence which he breaks only at the longest intervals by a remark . 
She smoked again as she thus , with amused complacency , appreciated her acquisition . 
We keep clear of you . 
But I'll tell you what he does do , she continued he tries to make me presents . 
Presents ? poor Strether echoed , conscious with a pang that HE hadn't yet tried that in any quarter . 
But sometimes , for a change , he goes with me into the shops , and then I've all I can do to prevent his buying me things . 
He wants to 'treat' you ? Strether almost gasped at all he himself hadn't thought of . 
He had a sense of admiration . 
Oh he's much more in the real tradition than I. Yes , he mused , it's the sacred rage . 
The sacred rage , exactly ! and Miss Barrace , who hadn't before heard this term applied , recognised its bearing with a clap of her gemmed hands . 
Now I do know why he's not banal . 
But I do prevent him all the same and if you saw what he sometimes selects from buying . 
I save him hundreds and hundreds . 
Flowers ? Strether echoed again with a rueful reflexion . 
How many nosegays had her present converser sent ? Innocent flowers , she pursued , as much as he likes . 
And he sends me splendours he knows all the best places he has found them for himself he's wonderful . 
He hasn't told them to me , her friend smiled , he has a life of his own . 
But Strether had swung back to the consciousness that for himself after all it never would have done . 
Waymarsh hadn't Mrs. Waymarsh in the least to consider , whereas Lambert Strether had constantly , in the inmost honour of his thoughts , to consider Mrs. Newsome . 
He liked moreover to feel how much his friend was in the real tradition . 
Yet he had his conclusion . 
WHAT a rage it is ! He had worked it out . 
She followed , but at a distance . 
Yet to what ? Well , he thinks , you know , that I'VE a life of my own . 
And I haven't ! You haven't ? She showed doubt , and her laugh confirmed it . 
Oh , oh , oh ! No not for myself . 
I seem to have a life only for other people . 
Ah for them and WITH them ! Just now for instance with Well , with whom ? he asked before she had had time to say . 
His tone had the effect of making her hesitate and even , as he guessed , speak with a difference . 
What do you do for HER ? It really made him wonder . 
He could have compared her to a goddess still partly engaged in a morning cloud , or to a sea nymph waist high in the summer surge . 
Above all she suggested to him the reflexion that the femme du monde in these finest developments of the type was , like Cleopatra in the play , indeed various and multifold . 
She was an obscure person , a muffled person one day , and a showy person , an uncovered person the next . 
You see how I'm fixed , was what they appeared to convey yet how he was fixed was exactly what Strether didn't see . 
However , perhaps he should see now . 
Why has Maria so suddenly gone ? Do you know ? That was the question Madame de Vionnet had brought with her . 
Ah then she has been writing you ? Not since she went I had only a brief explanatory word before she started . 
I found her note when I got home . 
Madame de Vionnet listened with interest and with her eyes on Strether's face then her delicately decorated head had a small melancholy motion . 
She didn't write to ME . 
I went to see her , she added , almost immediately after I had seen you , and as I assured her I would do when I met her at Gloriani's . 
She hadn't then told me she was to be absent , and I felt at her door as if I understood . 
She's absent with all respect to her sick friend , though I know indeed she has plenty so that I may not see her . 
She doesn't want to meet me again . 
It was as if , for him , all the same , her softness and sadness were sincere . 
He felt that not less when she soon went on I'm extremely glad of her happiness . 
But it also left him mute sharp and fine though the imputation it conveyed . 
What it conveyed was that HE was Maria Gostrey's happiness , and for the least little instant he had the impulse to challenge the thought . 
He could have done so however only by saying What then do you suppose to be between us ? and he was wonderfully glad a moment later not to have spoken . 
Whatever he had come out for he hadn't come to go into that so that he absolutely took up nothing his interlocutress had now let drop . 
Yet , though he had kept away from her for days , had laid wholly on herself the burden of their meeting again , she hadn't a gleam of irritation to show him . 
Well , about Jeanne now ? she smiled it had the gaiety with which she had originally come in . 
He felt it on the instant to represent her motive and real errand . 
But he had been schooling her of a truth to say much in proportion to his little . 
Do you make out that she has a sentiment ? I mean for Mr. Newsome . 
Almost resentful , Strether could at last be prompt . 
How can I make out such things ? She remained perfectly good natured . 
Ah but they're beautiful little things , and you make out don't pretend everything in the world . 
Haven't you , she asked , been talking with her ? Yes , but not about Chad . 
Oh you don't require 'much' ! she reassuringly declared . 
But she immediately changed her ground . 
I hope you remember your promise of the other day . 
To 'save' you , as you called it ? I call it so still . 
You WILL ? she insisted . 
You haven't repented ? He wondered . 
No but I've been thinking what I meant . 
And not , a little , what I did ? No that's not necessary . 
It will be enough if I know what I meant myself . 
And don't you know , she asked , by this time ? Again he had a pause . 
I think you ought to leave it to me . 
But how long , he added , do you give me ? It seems to me much more a question of how long you give ME . 
Doesn't our friend here himself , at any rate , she went on , perpetually make me present to you ? Not , Strether replied , by ever speaking of you to me . 
He never does that ? Never . 
She considered , and , if the fact was disconcerting to her , effectually concealed it . 
The next minute indeed she had recovered . 
But do you NEED that ? Her emphasis was wonderful , and though his eyes had been wandering he looked at her longer now . 
I see what you mean . 
Of course you see what I mean . 
Her triumph was gentle , and she really had tones to make justice weep . 
I've before me what he owes you . 
Admit then that that's something , she said , yet still with the same discretion in her pride . 
He took in this note but went straight on . 
You've made of him what I see , but what I don't see is how in the world you've done it . 
Ah that's another question ! she smiled . 
The point is of what use is your declining to know me when to know Mr. Newsome as you do me the honour to find him IS just to know me . 
I see , he mused , still with his eyes on her . 
I shouldn't have met you to night . 
She raised and dropped her linked hands . 
Oh I shall be so easy for you ! And I'm glad at any rate you've seen my child . 
I'm glad too , he said but she does you no good . 
No good ? Madame de Vionnet had a clear stare . 
Why she's an angel of light . 
Don't try to find out . 
I mean , he explained , about what you spoke to me of the way she feels . 
Because one really won't ? Well , because I ask you , as a favour to myself , not to . 
She's the most charming creature I've ever seen . 
Don't know don't want to know . 
And moreover yes you won't . 
It was an appeal , of a sudden , and she took it in . 
As a favour to you ? Well since you ask me . 
Anything , everything you ask , she smiled . 
I shan't know then never . 
Thank you , she added with peculiar gentleness as she turned away . 
The sound of it lingered with him , making him fairly feel as if he had been tripped up and had a fall . 
There WOULD be some reason . 
Some reason for what ? Why for hanging on here . 
To offer my hand and fortune to Mademoiselle de Vionnet ? Well , Strether asked , to what lovelier apparition COULD you offer them ? She's the sweetest little thing I've ever seen . 
I mean she's the real thing . 
I believe the pale pink petals are folded up there for some wondrous efflorescence in time to open , that is , to some great golden sun . 
I'M unfortunately but a small farthing candle . 
What chance in such a field for a poor little painter man ? Oh you're good enough , Strether threw out . 
We're good enough , I consider , nous autres , for anything . 
They wouldn't look at me . 
Whom do you mean by 'they' ? She and her mother ? She and her mother . 
And she has a father too , who , whatever else he may be , certainly can't be indifferent to the possibilities she represents . 
Strether was silent a little . 
Ah but he doesn't care for her not , I mean , it appears , after all , in the sense I'm speaking of . 
He's NOT in love with her . 
No but he's her best friend after her mother . 
He's very fond of her . 
He has his ideas about what can be done for her . 
Well , it's very strange ! Strether presently remarked with a sighing sense of fulness . 
That's just the beauty of it . 
Well , you did me no end of good , and I'm doing my best . 
I DO make it out a situation . 
So do I ! Strether went on after a moment . 
But he had the next minute an inconsequent question . 
How comes Chad so mixed up , anyway ? Ah , ah , ah ! and little Bilham fell back on his cushions . 
It reminded our friend of Miss Barrace , and he felt again the brush of his sense of moving in a maze of mystic closed allusions . 
Yet he kept hold of his thread . 
Of course I understand really only the general transformation makes me occasionally gasp . 
The curious fact remains that Chad himself isn't . 
The situation doesn't make for it , but in a different one he could have her if he would . 
Yes , but that's only because he's rich and because there's a possibility of his being richer . 
They won't think of anything but a great name or a great fortune . 
Well , said Strether , he'll have no great fortune on THESE lines . 
He must stir his stumps . 
Is that , little Bilham enquired , what you were saying to Madame de Vionnet ? No I don't say much to her . 
Of course , however , Strether continued , he can make sacrifices if he likes . 
Little Bilham had a pause . 
Oh he's not keen for sacrifices or thinks , that is , possibly , that he has made enough . 
Well , it IS virtuous , his companion observed with some decision . 
That's exactly , the young man dropped after a moment , what I mean . 
It kept Strether himself silent a little . 
I've made it out for myself , he then went on I've really , within the last half hour , got hold of it . 
I understand it in short at last which at first when you originally spoke to me I didn't . 
Nor when Chad originally spoke to me either . 
Oh , said little Bilham , I don't think that at that time you believed me . 
Yes I did and I believed Chad too . 
It would have been odious and unmannerly as well as quite perverse if I hadn't . 
What interest have you in deceiving me ? The young man cast about . 
What interest have I ? Yes . 
But you ? Ah , ah , ah ! little Bilham exclaimed . 
I couldn't , without my own impression , realise . 
She's a tremendously clever brilliant capable woman , and with an extraordinary charm on top of it all the charm we surely all of us this evening know what to think of . 
It isn't every clever brilliant capable woman that has it . 
In fact it's rare with any woman . 
So there you are , Strether proceeded as if not for little Bilham's benefit alone . 
I understand what a relation with such a woman what such a high fine friendship may be . 
It can't be vulgar or coarse , anyway and that's the point . 
Yes , that's the point , said little Bilham . 
It can't be vulgar or coarse . 
And , bless us and save us , it ISn't ! It's , upon my word , the very finest thing I ever saw in my life , and the most distinguished . 
Strether , from beside him and leaning back with him as he leaned , dropped on him a momentary look which filled a short interval and of which he took no notice . 
He only gazed before him with intent participation . 
I've to take it as I find it . 
There he is ! little Bilham echoed . 
And it's really and truly she . 
I don't understand either , even with my longer and closer opportunity . 
But I'm like you , he added I can admire and rejoice even when I'm a little in the dark . 
You see I've watched it for some three years , and especially for this last . 
Still , you know , the young man in all fairness developed , there was room for her , and that's where she came in . 
She saw her chance and took it . 
That's what strikes me as having been so fine . 
But of course , he wound up , he liked her first . 
I mean that they first met somehow and somewhere I believe in some American house and she , without in the least then intending it , made her impression . 
Then with time and opportunity he made his and after THAT she was as bad as he . 
Strether vaguely took it up . 
As 'bad' ? She began , that is , to care to care very much . 
Alone , and in her horrid position , she found it , when once she had started , an interest . 
It was , it is , an interest , and it did it continues to do a lot for herself as well . 
She cares in fact , said little Bilham thoughtfully more . 
Strether's theory that it was none of his business was somehow not damaged by the way he took this . 
More , you mean , than he ? On which his companion looked round at him , and now for an instant their eyes met . 
More than he ? he repeated . 
Little Bilham , for as long , hung fire . 
Will you never tell any one ? Strether thought . 
Whom should I tell ? Why I supposed you reported regularly To people at home ? Strether took him up . 
Well , I won't tell them this . 
The young man at last looked away . 
Then she does now care more than he . 
Oh ! Strether oddly exclaimed . 
But his companion immediately met it . 
Haven't you after all had your impression of it ? That's how you've got hold of him . 
Ah but I haven't got hold of him ! Oh I say ! But it was all little Bilham said . 
It's at any rate none of my business . 
I mean , Strether explained , nothing else than getting hold of him is . 
It appeared , however , to strike him as his business to add The fact remains nevertheless that she has saved him . 
I thought that was what you were to do . 
But Strether had his answer ready . 
I'm speaking in connexion with her of his manners and morals , his character and life . 
I'm speaking of him as a person to deal with and talk with and live with speaking of him as a social animal . 
And isn't it as a social animal that you also want him ? Certainly so that it's as if she had saved him FOR us . 
It strikes you accordingly then , the young man threw out , as for you all to save HER ? Oh for us 'all' ! Strether could but laugh at that . 
It brought him back , however , to the point he had really wished to make . 
They've accepted their situation hard as it is . 
They're not free at least she's not but they take what's left to them . 
It's a friendship , of a beautiful sort and that's what makes them so strong . 
They're straight , they feel and they keep each other up . 
It's doubtless she , however , who , as you yourself have hinted , feels it most . 
Little Bilham appeared to wonder what he had hinted . 
Feels most that they're straight ? Well , feels that SHE is , and the strength that comes from it . 
She keeps HIM up she keeps the whole thing up . 
When people are able to it's fine . 
She has simply given him an immense moral lift , and what that can explain is prodigious . 
That's why I speak of it as a situation . 
It IS one , if there ever was . 
And Strether , with his head back and his eyes on the ceiling , seemed to lose himself in the vision of it . 
You state it much better than I could . 
Oh you see it doesn't concern you . 
I thought you said just now that it doesn't concern you either . 
Well , it doesn't a bit as Madame de Vionnet's affair . 
But as we were again saying just now , what did I come out for but to save him ? Yes to remove him . 
To save him by removal to win him over to HIMSELF thinking it best he shall take up business thinking he must immediately do therefore what's necessary to that end . 
Well , said little Bilham after a moment , you HAVE won him over . 
He does think it best . 
He has within a day or two again said to me as much . 
And that , Strether asked , is why you consider that he cares less than she ? Cares less for her than she for him ? Yes , that's one of the reasons . 
But other things too have given me the impression . 
A man , don't you think ? little Bilham presently pursued , CAN'T , in such conditions , care so much as a woman . 
It takes different conditions to make him , and then perhaps he cares more . 
Chad , he wound up , has his possible future before him . 
Are you speaking of his business future ? No on the contrary of the other , the future of what you so justly call their situation . 
M. de Vionnet may live for ever . 
So that they can't marry ? The young man waited a moment . 
Not being able to marry is all they've with any confidence to look forward to . 
A woman a particular woman may stand that strain . 
But can a man ? he propounded . 
Strether's answer was as prompt as if he had already , for himself , worked it out . 
Not without a very high ideal of conduct . 
But that's just what we're attributing to Chad . 
Then more bravely Wouldn't distance lessen the torment ? But before Strether could reply , The thing is , you see , Chad ought to marry ! he wound up . 
Strether , for a little , appeared to think of it . 
If you talk of torments you don't diminish mine ! he then broke out . 
The next moment he was on his feet with a question . 
He ought to marry whom ? Little Bilham rose more slowly . 
Well , some one he CAN some thoroughly nice girl Strether's eyes , as they stood together , turned again to Jeanne . 
Do you mean HER ? His friend made a sudden strange face . 
After being in love with her mother ? No. But isn't it exactly your idea that he ISn't in love with her mother ? His friend once more had a pause . 
Well , he isn't at any rate in love with Jeanne . 
How CAN he be with any other woman ? Oh that I admit . 
But being in love isn't , you know , here little Bilham spoke in friendly reminder thought necessary , in strictness , for marriage . 
And what torment to call a torment can there ever possibly be with a woman like that ? As if from the interest of his own question Strether had gone on without hearing . 
When it's for each other that people give things up they don't miss them . 
Then he threw off as with an extravagance of which he was conscious Let them face the future together ! Little Bilham looked at him indeed . 
You mean that after all he shouldn't go back ? I mean that if he gives her up ! Yes ? Well , he ought to be ashamed of himself . 
But Strether spoke with a sound that might have passed for a laugh . 
His great friend , for that matter , was still absent , as well as remarkably silent even at the end of three weeks Miss Gostrey hadn't come back . 
If furthermore she didn't burden him with letters it was frankly because of her sense of the other great commerce he had to carry on . 
That would be to tell her too much about himself it being at present just from himself he was trying to escape . 
He trod the long dim nave , sat in the splendid choir , paused before the cluttered chapels of the east end , and the mighty monument laid upon him its spell . 
I come often , she said . 
I love this place , but I'm terrible , in general , for churches . 
The old women who live in them all know me in fact I'm already myself one of the old women . 
It's like that , at all events , that I foresee I shall end . 
When people were so completely in possession they could be extraordinarily civil and our friend had indeed at this hour a kind of revelation of her heritage . 
This attitude fitted admirably into the stand he had privately taken about her connexion with Chad on the last occasion of his seeing them together . 
Unassailably innocent was a relation that could make one of the parties to it so carry herself . 
She haunted them for continued help , for strength , for peace sublime support which , if one were able to look at it so , she found from day to day . 
We'll presently , after we go , she said , walk round it again if you like . 
I'm not in a particular hurry , and it will be pleasant to look at it well with you . 
Out of proportion to what ? Well , to any other plunge . 
Yet he felt even as he spoke how at that instant he was plunging . 
People in difficulties held on by what was nearest , and he was perhaps after all not further off than sources of comfort more abstract . 
It was as to this he had made up his mind he had made it up , that is , to give her a sign . 
The sign would be that though it was her own affair he understood the sign would be that though it was her own affair she was free to clutch . 
Since she took him for a firm object much as he might to his own sense appear at times to rock he would do his best to BE one . 
She had heard of the happy spot , but she asked him in reply to a further question how in the world he could suppose her to have been there . 
He supposed himself to have supposed that Chad might have taken her , and she guessed this the next moment to his no small discomfort . 
It was more than kind of him to have thought of it though , frankly , if he asked whether she had time she hadn't a single minute . 
That however made no difference she'd throw everything over . 
Every duty at home , domestic , maternal , social , awaited her but it was a case for a high line . 
Their human questions became many before they had done many more , as one after the other came up , than our friend's free fancy had at all foreseen . 
If all the accidents were to fight on her side and by the actual showing they loomed large he could only give himself up . 
This was what he had done in privately deciding then and there to propose she should breakfast with him . 
To this tune and nothing less , accordingly , was his surrender made good . 
It sufficiently lighted up at least the folly of holding off . 
Ancient proverbs sounded , for his memory , in the tone of their words and the clink of their glasses , in the hum of the town and the plash of the river . 
It WAS clearly better to suffer as a sheep than as a lamb . 
One might as well perish by the sword as by famine . 
There were reasons that made him by no means sure , yet he nevertheless answered Tremendously which she took in as if it were all she had wished to prove . 
Then , A man in trouble MUST be possessed somehow of a woman , she said if she doesn't come in one way she comes in another . 
Why do you call me a man in trouble ? Ah because that's the way you strike me . 
She spoke ever so gently and as if with all fear of wounding him while she sat partaking of his bounty . 
AREn't you in trouble ? He felt himself colour at the question , and then hated that hated to pass for anything so idiotic as woundable . 
I'm not in trouble now . 
Well , I'm always so . 
But that you sufficiently know . 
She was a woman who , between courses , could be graceful with her elbows on the table . 
It was a posture unknown to Mrs. Newsome , but it was easy for a femme du monde . 
Yes I am 'now' ! There was a question you put to me , he presently returned , the night of Chad's dinner . 
I didn't answer it then , and it has been very handsome of you not to have sought an occasion for pressing me about it since . 
She was instantly all there . 
Of course I know what you allude to . 
I asked you what you had meant by saying , the day you came to see me , just before you left me , that you'd save me . 
And you then said at our friend's that you'd have really to wait to see , for yourself , what you did mean . 
Yes , I asked for time , said Strether . 
And it sounds now , as you put it , like a very ridiculous speech . 
Oh ! she murmured she was full of attenuation . 
But she had another thought . 
If it does sound ridiculous why do you deny that you're in trouble ? Ah if I were , he replied , it wouldn't be the trouble of fearing ridicule . 
What then do you ? Nothing now . 
And he leaned back in his chair . 
I like your 'now' ! she laughed across at him . 
Well , it's precisely that it fully comes to me at present that I've kept you long enough . 
I know by this time , at any rate , what I meant by my speech and I really knew it the night of Chad's dinner . 
Then why didn't you tell me ? Because it was difficult at the moment . 
I feel now , he went on , that it may go further than I thought . 
It's this answer that will represent , as I believe , the consequences . 
Patient and beautiful was her interest . 
I see the consequences of your speaking for me . 
And she waited as if not to hustle him . 
He acknowledged it by immediately going on . 
The question , you understand , was HOW I should save you . 
Well , I'm trying it by thus letting her know that I consider you worth saving . 
How can I thank you enough ? He couldn't tell her that , however , and she quickly pursued . 
You do really , for yourself , consider it ? His only answer at first was to help her to the dish that had been freshly put before them . 
I've written to her again since then I've left her in no doubt of what I think . 
I've told her all about you . 
'All about' me , she went on yes . 
All it seems to me you've done for him . 
Ah and you might have added all it seems to ME ! She laughed again , while she took up her knife and fork , as in the cheer of these assurances . 
But you're not sure how she'll take it . 
No , I'll not pretend I'm sure . 
And she waited a moment . 
I wish you'd tell me about her . 
Oh , said Strether with a slightly strained smile , all that need concern you about her is that she's really a grand person . 
Madame de Vionnet seemed to demur . 
Is that all that need concern me about her ? But Strether neglected the question . 
Hasn't Chad talked to you ? Of his mother ? Yes , a great deal immensely . 
But not from your point of view . 
He can't , our friend returned , have said any ill of her . 
He has given me , like you , the assurance that she's really grand . 
But her being really grand is somehow just what hasn't seemed to simplify our case . 
No woman ever enjoys such an obligation to another woman . 
This was a proposition Strether couldn't contradict . 
And yet what other way could I have expressed to her what I felt ? It's what there was most to say about you . 
Do you mean then that she WILL be good to me ? It's what I'm waiting to see . 
But I've little doubt she would , he added , if she could comfortably see you . 
It seemed to strike her as a happy , a beneficent thought . 
Oh then couldn't that be managed ? Wouldn't she come out ? Wouldn't she if you so put it to her ? DID you by any possibility ? she faintly quavered . 
Oh no he was prompt . 
It would be , much more , to give an account of you that since there's no question of YOUR paying the visit I should go home first . 
It instantly made her graver . 
And are you thinking of that ? Oh all the while , naturally . 
Stay with us stay with us ! she exclaimed on this . 
That's your only way to make sure . 
To make sure of what ? Why that he doesn't break up . 
You didn't come out to do that to him . 
You take for granted remarkable things . 
Yes , I do to the extent that I don't take for granted vulgar ones . 
You're perfectly capable of seeing that what you came out for wasn't really at all to do what you'd now have to do . 
Ah it's perfectly simple , Strether good humouredly pleaded . 
I've had but one thing to do to put our case before him . 
To put it as it could only be put here on the spot by personal pressure . 
My dear lady , he lucidly pursued , my work , you see , is really done , and my reasons for staying on even another day are none of the best . 
Chad's in possession of our case and professes to do it full justice . 
What remains is with himself . 
I've had my rest , my amusement and refreshment I've had , as we say at Woollett , a lovely time . 
Nothing in it has been more lovely than this happy meeting with you in these fantastic conditions to which you've so delightfully consented . 
I've a sense of success . 
My getting all this good is what Chad has waited for , and I gather that if I'm ready to go he's the same . 
She shook her head with a finer deeper wisdom . 
If you're ready why did you write to Mrs. Newsome in the sense you've mentioned to me ? Strether considered . 
I shan't go before I hear from her . 
You're too much afraid of her , he added . 
It produced between them a long look from which neither shrank . 
I don't think you believe that believe I've not really reason to fear her . 
She's capable of great generosity , Strether presently stated . 
Well then let her trust me a little . 
Let her recognise in spite of everything what I've done . 
Ah remember , our friend replied , that she can't effectually recognise it without seeing it for herself . 
Let Chad go over and show her what you've done , and let him plead with her there for it and , as it were , for YOU . 
She measured the depth of this suggestion . 
When she sees for herself what he is But she had already broken in . 
It's when she sees for herself what he is that she'll want to marry him most . 
Strether's attitude , that of due deference to what she said , permitted him to attend for a minute to his luncheon . 
I doubt if that will come off . 
It won't be easy to make it . 
It will be easy if he remains there and he'll remain for the money . 
The money appears to be , as a probability , so hideously much . 
Well , Strether presently concluded , nothing COULD really hurt you but his marrying . 
She gave a strange light laugh . 
Putting aside what may really hurt HIM . 
But her friend looked at her as if he had thought of that too . 
The question will come up , of course , of the future that you yourself offer him . 
She was leaning back now , but she fully faced him . 
Well , let it come up ! The point is that it's for Chad to make of it what he can . 
His being proof against marriage will show what he does make . 
If he IS proof , yes she accepted the proposition . 
But for myself , she added , the question is what YOU make . 
It's just there that , since you've taken it up and are committed to it , it most intensely becomes yours . 
You're not saving me , I take it , for your interest in myself , but for your interest in our friend . 
The one's at any rate wholly dependent on the other . 
You can't in honour not see me through , she wound up , because you can't in honour not see HIM . 
Strange and beautiful to him was her quiet soft acuteness . 
The thing that most moved him was really that she was so deeply serious . 
She had none of the portentous forms of it , but he had never come in contact , it struck him , with a force brought to so fine a head . 
Mrs. Newsome , goodness knew , was serious but it was nothing to this . 
He took it all in , he saw it all together . 
No , he mused , I can't in honour not see him . 
Her face affected him as with an exquisite light . 
You WILL then ? I will . 
At this she pushed back her chair and was the next moment on her feet . 
The golden nail she had then driven in pierced a good inch deeper . 
Yet he reflected that he himself had only meanwhile done what he had made up his mind to on the same occasion . 
So far as the essence of the matter went he had simply stood fast on the spot on which he had then planted his feet . 
It was the evening hour , but daylight was long now and Paris more than ever penetrating . 
He was to dine at home , as usual , with Waymarsh they had settled to that for thrift and simplicity and he now hung about before his friend came down . 
He read his telegram in the court , standing still a long time where he had opened it and giving five minutes afterwards to the renewed study of it . 
But the pilgrim from Milrose permitted himself still to observe the scene from behind the clear glass plate of that retreat . 
Strether ended , as he sat , by a fresh scrutiny of his compressed missive , which he smoothed out carefully again as he placed it on his table . 
There it remained for some minutes , until , at last looking up , he saw Waymarsh watching him from within . 
It was on this that their eyes met met for a moment during which neither moved . 
This note indeed , to Strether's sense , had lately taken a fuller tone , and it was his fancy to night that they had never quite so drawn it out . 
Yet it befell , none the less that he closed the door to confidence when his companion finally asked him if there were anything particular the matter with him . 
Nothing , he replied , more than usual . 
On the morrow , however , at an early hour , he found occasion to give an answer more in consonance with the facts . 
He had thereupon slept as if it had been in some measure thanks to that sacrifice the sleep of the just , and had prolonged his rest considerably beyond his custom . 
Thus it was that when , between nine and ten , the tap of the knob of a walking stick sounded on his door , he had not yet made himself altogether presentable . 
Chad Newsome's bright deep voice determined quickly enough none the less the admission of the visitor . 
Chad , looking about with careless and competent criticism , as he looked wherever he went immediately espied it and permitted himself to fix it for a moment rather hard . 
After which he turned his eyes to his host . 
It has come then at last ? Strether paused in the act of pinning his necktie . 
Then you know ? You've had one too ? No , I've had nothing , and I only know what I see . 
I see that thing and I guess . 
To take me ? Strether had turned again to his glass . 
Back , at last , as I promised . 
I'm ready I've really been ready this month . 
I've only been waiting for you as was perfectly right . 
But you're better now you're safe I see that for myself you've got all your good . 
You're looking , this morning , as fit as a flea . 
Strether , at his glass , finished dressing consulting that witness moreover on this last opinion . 
WAS he looking preternaturally fit ? There was something in it perhaps for Chad's wonderful eye , but he had felt himself for hours rather in pieces . 
Such a judgement , however , was after all but a contribution to his resolve it testified unwittingly to his wisdom . 
He was still firmer , apparently since it shone in him as a light than he had flattered himself . 
He had never struck Strether as personally such a success it was as if now , for his definite surrender , he had gathered himself vividly together . 
This , sharply and rather strangely , was the form in which he was to be presented to Woollett . 
I've had a cable , Strether said , from your mother . 
I dare say , my dear man . 
No she's not well , I'm sorry to have to tell you . 
Ah , said Chad , I must have had the instinct of it . 
All the more reason then that we should start straight off . 
Strether had now got together hat , gloves and stick , but Chad had dropped on the sofa as if to show where he wished to make his point . 
He kept observing his companion's things he might have been judging how quickly they could be packed . 
He might even have wished to hint that he'd send his own servant to assist . 
What do you mean , Strether enquired , by 'straight off' ? Oh by one of next week's boats . 
Everything at this season goes out so light that berths will be easy anywhere . 
Thanks , I'd rather not . 
Your correspondence with Mother's your own affair . 
I'm only WITH you both on it , whatever it is . 
Strether , at this , while their eyes met , slowly folded the missive and put it in his pocket after which , before he had spoken again , Chad broke fresh ground . 
Has Miss Gostrey come back ? But when Strether presently spoke it wasn't in answer . 
It's not , I gather , that your mother's physically ill her health , on the whole , this spring , seems to have been better than usual . 
But she's worried , she's anxious , and it appears to have risen within the last few days to a climax . 
We've tired out , between us , her patience . 
Oh it isn't YOU ! Chad generously protested . 
I beg your pardon it IS me . 
Strether was mild and melancholy , but firm . 
He saw it far away and over his companion's head . 
Well then all the more reason . 
Marchons , marchons ! said the young man gaily . 
His host , however , at this , but continued to stand agaze and he had the next thing repeated his question of a moment before . 
Has Miss Gostrey come back ? Yes , two days ago . 
Then you've seen her ? No I'm to see her to day . 
But Strether wouldn't linger now on Miss Gostrey . 
Your mother sends me an ultimatum . 
If I can't bring you I'm to leave you I'm to come at any rate myself . 
Ah but you CAN bring me now , Chad , from his sofa , reassuringly replied . 
I don't think I understand you . 
Why but because I knew how well she'd do it ? It was the way to keep you quiet and , to that extent , do you good . 
Besides , he happily and comfortably explained , I wanted you really to know her and to get the impression of her and you see the good that HAS done you . 
If you make nothing of that I don't see why you wanted me to listen to her . 
Chad stared , then gave a laugh . 
And isn't my signal to start just what you've been waiting for ? Strether debated he took another turn . 
This last month I've been awaiting , I think , more than anything else , the message I have here . 
You mean you've been afraid of it ? Well , I was doing my business in my own way . 
And I suppose your present announcement , Strether went on , isn't merely the result of your sense of what I've expected . 
Otherwise you wouldn't have put me in relation But he paused , pulling up . 
Ah HER wanting me not to go has nothing to do with it ! It's only because she's afraid afraid of the way that , over there , I may get caught . 
He had met again his companion's sufficiently searching look . 
Are you tired of her ? Chad gave him in reply to this , with a movement of the head , the strangest slow smile he had ever had from him . 
It had immediately , on Strether's imagination , so deep and soft an effect that our friend could only for the moment keep it before him . 
Never ? Never , Chad obligingly and serenely repeated . 
It made his companion take several more steps . 
Afraid to go ? Strether pulled up again . 
The young man looked brightly amazed . 
You want me now to 'stay' ? If I don't immediately sail the Pococks will immediately come out . 
That's what I mean , said Strether , by your mother's ultimatum . 
Chad showed a still livelier , but not an alarmed interest . 
She has turned on Sarah and Jim ? Strether joined him for an instant in the vision . 
Oh and you may be sure Mamie . 
THAT'S whom she's turning on . 
This also Chad saw he laughed out . 
Mamie to corrupt me ? Ah , said Strether , she's very charming . 
So you've already more than once told me . 
I should like to see her . 
See her then by all means . 
And consider too , Strether went on , that you really give your sister a lift in letting her come to you . 
Chad listened , but with all his own knowledge of the world . 
She has had it , the pretext , these several years , yet she has never taken it . 
Do you mean YOU ? Strether after an instant enquired . 
And whom do you mean ? said Chad . 
That is for it comes to the same thing I'm your mother's . 
Then why , Chad asked , doesn't Mother come herself ? His friend gave him a long look . 
Should you like her to ? And as he for the moment said nothing It's perfectly open to you to cable for her . 
Will she come if I do ? Quite possibly . 
But try , and you'll see . 
Why don't YOU try ? Chad after a moment asked . 
Because I don't want to . 
Don't desire her presence here ? Strether faced the question , and his answer was the more emphatic . 
Don't put it off , my dear boy , on ME ! Well I see what you mean . 
I'm sure you'd behave beautifully but you DON'T want to see her . 
So I won't play you that trick . 
Ah , Strether declared , I shouldn't call it a trick . 
You've a perfect right , and it would be perfectly straight of you . 
Then he added in a different tone You'd have moreover , in the person of Madame de Vionnet , a very interesting relation prepared for her . 
Their eyes , on this proposition , continued to meet , but Chad's pleasant and bold , never flinched for a moment . 
He got up at last and he said something with which Strether was struck . 
She wouldn't understand her , but that makes no difference . 
Madame de Vionnet would like to see her . 
She'd like to be charming to her . 
She believes she could work it . 
Strether thought a moment , affected by this , but finally turning away . 
She couldn't ! You're quite sure ? Chad asked . 
Well , risk it if you like ! Strether , who uttered this with serenity , had urged a plea for their now getting into the air but the young man still waited . 
Have you sent your answer ? No , I've done nothing yet . 
Were you waiting to see me ? No , not that . 
Only waiting and Chad , with this , had a smile for him to see Miss Gostrey ? No not even Miss Gostrey . 
I wasn't waiting to see any one . 
Have therefore a little more patience with me . 
Remember , Strether went on , that that's what you originally asked ME to have . 
I've had it , you see , and you see what has come of it . 
How much longer ? Well , till I make you a sign . 
I can't myself , you know , at the best , or at the worst , stay for ever . 
Let the Pococks come , Strether repeated . 
Because it gains you time ? Yes it gains me time . 
Chad , as if it still puzzled him , waited a minute . 
You don't want to get back to Mother ? Not just yet . 
You feel , Chad asked in a tone of his own , the charm of life over here ? Immensely . 
You've helped me so to feel it that that surely needn't surprise you . 
No , it doesn't surprise me , and I'm delighted . 
Well , to my having a certitude that has been tested that has passed through the fire . 
Well , we should have been over there by now . 
Chad looked amused and interested , yet still somewhat in the dark partly perhaps because Strether's estimate of fun had required of him from the first a good deal of elucidation . 
It wouldn't do if I left you ? Left me ? Strether remained blank . 
Only for a month or two time to go and come . 
Madame de Vionnet , Chad smiled , would look after you in the interval . 
Remember how long it is since I've seen Mother . 
Long indeed and that's exactly why I was originally so keen for moving you . 
Hadn't you shown us enough how beautifully you could do without it ? Oh but , said Chad wonderfully , I'm better now . 
There was an easy triumph in it that made his friend laugh out again . 
Oh if you were worse I SHOULD know what to do with you . 
In that case I believe I'd have you gagged and strapped down , carried on board resisting , kicking . 
How MUCH , Strether asked , do you want to see Mother ? How much ? Chad seemed to find it in fact difficult to say . 
Why as much as you've made me . 
I'd give anything to see her . 
And you've left me , Chad went on , in little enough doubt as to how much SHE wants it . 
Well then if those things are really your motive catch the French steamer and sail to morrow . 
Of course , when it comes to that , you're absolutely free to do as you choose . 
From the moment you can't hold yourself I can only accept your flight . 
I'll fly in a minute then , said Chad , if you'll stay here . 
I'll stay here till the next steamer then I'll follow you . 
And do you call that , Chad asked , accepting my flight ? Certainly it's the only thing to call it . 
The only way to keep me here , accordingly , Strether explained , is by staying yourself . 
All the more that I've really dished you , eh ? Dished me ? Strether echoed as inexpressively as possible . 
Why if she sends out the Pococks it will be that she doesn't trust you , and if she doesn't trust you , that bears upon well , you know what . 
Strether decided after a moment that he did know what , and in consonance with this he spoke . 
You see then all the more what you owe me . 
Well , if I do see , how can I pay ? By not deserting me . 
Oh I say ! But Chad , as they went downstairs , clapped a firm hand , in the manner of a pledge , upon his shoulder . 
They descended slowly together and had , in the court of the hotel , some further talk , of which the upshot was that they presently separated . 
Chad Newsome departed , and Strether , left alone , looked about , superficially , for Waymarsh . 
But Waymarsh hadn't yet , it appeared , come down , and our friend finally went forth without sight of him . 
III At four o'clock that afternoon he had still not seen him , but he was then , as to make up for this , engaged in talk about him with Miss Gostrey . 
Do you mean a letter to bring you home ? No a cable , which I have at this moment in my pocket a 'Come back by the first ship . 
Strether's hostess , it might have been made out , just escaped changing colour . 
Reflexion arrived but in time and established a provisional serenity . 
It was perhaps exactly this that enabled her to say with duplicity And you're going ? You almost deserve it when you abandon me so . 
She shook her head as if this were not worth taking up . 
My absence has helped you as I've only to look at you to see . 
It was my calculation , and I'm justified . 
You're not where you were . 
And the thing , she smiled , was for me not to be there either . 
You can go of yourself . 
Oh but I feel to day , he comfortably declared , that I shall want you yet . 
She took him all in again . 
Well , I promise you not again to leave you , but it will only be to follow you . 
You've got your momentum and can toddle alone . 
Yes I suppose I can toddle . 
It's the sight of that in fact that has upset Waymarsh . 
He can bear it the way I strike him as going no longer . 
That's only the climax of his original feeling . 
He wants me to quit and he must have written to Woollett that I'm in peril of perdition . 
Ah good ! she murmured . 
But is it only your supposition ? I make it out it explains . 
Because you're too disgusted ? You can't trust yourself ? He settled his glasses on his nose . 
Do I look in a great rage ? You look divine ! There's nothing , he went on , to be angry about . 
He has done me on the contrary a service . 
By bringing things to a head ? How well you understand ! he almost groaned . 
Waymarsh won't in the least , at any rate , when I have it out with him , deny or extenuate . 
He has acted from the deepest conviction , with the best conscience and after wakeful nights . 
We shall have at last , in the consequences of his act , something we can definitely talk about . 
She was silent a little . 
How wonderfully you take it ! But you're always wonderful . 
He had a pause that matched her own then he had , with an adequate spirit , a complete admission . 
I'm extremely wonderful just now . 
I dare say in fact I'm quite fantastic , and I shouldn't be at all surprised if I were mad . 
Then tell me ! she earnestly pressed . 
As he , however , for the time answered nothing , only returning the look with which she watched him , she presented herself where it was easier to meet her . 
What will Mr. Waymarsh exactly have done ? Simply have written a letter . 
One will have been quite enough . 
He has told them I want looking after . 
And DO you ? she was all interest . 
And I shall get it . 
By which you mean you don't budge ? I don't budge . 
You've cabled ? No I've made Chad do it . 
That you decline to come ? That HE declines . 
We had it out this morning and I brought him round . 
He had come in , before I was down , to tell me he was ready ready , I mean , to return . 
And he went off , after ten minutes with me , to say he wouldn't . 
Miss Gostrey followed with intensity . 
Then you've STOPPED him ? Strether settled himself afresh in his chair . 
That is for the time . 
That he gave it to her more vividly is where I am . 
I see , I see . 
But where's Mr. Newsome ? He was ready , she asked , to go ? All ready . 
It was an account of the matter Miss Gostrey could weigh . 
Does he think the conversion sudden ? Well , said Strether , I'm not altogether sure what he thinks . 
I'm not sure of anything that concerns him , except that the more I've seen of him the less I've found him what I originally expected . 
He's obscure , and that's why I'm waiting . 
But for what in particular ? For the answer to his cable . 
And what was his cable ? I don't know , Strether replied it was to be , when he left me , according to his own taste . 
I simply said to him 'I want to stay , and the only way for me to do so is for you to . 
That I wanted to stay seemed to interest him , and he acted on that . 
Miss Gostrey turned it over . 
He wants then himself to stay . 
That is he half wants to go . 
My original appeal has to that extent worked in him . 
Nevertheless , Strether pursued , he won't go . 
Not , at least , so long as I'm here . 
But you can't , his companion suggested , stay here always . 
Still , I want to see him a little further . 
He's not in the least the case I supposed , he's quite another case . 
And it's as such that he interests me . 
It was almost as if for his own intelligence that , deliberate and lucid , our friend thus expressed the matter . 
I don't want to give him up . 
Miss Gostrey but desired to help his lucidity . 
She had however to be light and tactful . 
Up , you mean a to his mother ? Well , I'm not thinking of his mother now . 
Miss Gostrey had a smile of the most genial criticism . 
I call it , all the same , immense fun , Maria Gostrey declared and to see you work it out will be one of the sensations of my life . 
It IS clear you can toddle alone ! He received this tribute without elation . 
I shan't be alone when the Pococks have come . 
The Pococks are coming ? That , I mean , is what will happen and happen as quickly as possible in consequence of Chad's cable . 
Sarah will come to speak for her mother with an effect different from MY muddle . 
Miss Gostrey more gravely wondered . 
SHE then will take him back ? Very possibly and we shall see . 
She must at any rate have the chance , and she may be trusted to do all she can . 
And do you WANT that ? Of course , said Strether , I want it . 
I want to play fair But she had lost for a moment the thread . 
If it devolves on the Pococks why do you stay ? Just to see that I DO play fair and a little also , no doubt , that they do . 
Strether was luminous as he had never been . 
I came out to find myself in presence of new facts facts that have kept striking me as less and less met by our old reasons . 
New reasons reasons as new as the facts themselves are wanted and of this our friends at Woollett Chad's and mine were at the earliest moment definitely notified . 
If any are producible Mrs. Pocock will produce them she'll bring over the whole collection . 
They'll be , he added with a pensive smile a part of the 'fun' you speak of . 
She was quite in the current now and floating by his side . 
It's Mamie so far as I've had it from you who'll be their great card . 
And then as his contemplative silence wasn't a denial she significantly added I think I'm sorry for her . 
I think I am ! and Strether sprang up , moving about a little as her eyes followed him . 
But it can't be helped . 
You mean her coming out can't be ? He explained after another turn what he meant . 
The only way for her not to come is for me to go home as I believe that on the spot I could prevent it . 
But the difficulty as to that is that if I do go home I see , I see she had easily understood . 
Mr. Newsome will do the same , and that's not she laughed out now to be thought of . 
Strether had no laugh he had only a quiet comparatively placid look that might have shown him as proof against ridicule . 
Yet he was answered still better when she said in a moment Will Mr. Newsome introduce his sister ? To Madame de Vionnet ? Strether spoke the name at last . 
I shall be greatly surprised if he doesn't . 
She seemed to gaze at the possibility . 
You mean you've thought of it and you're prepared . 
I've thought of it and I'm prepared . 
It was to her visitor now that she applied her consideration . 
His message to Mrs. Newsome , in answer to her own , had consisted of the words Judge best to take another month , but with full appreciation of all re enforcements . 
On those lines he could still be liberal , yet it was at best a sort of whistling in the dark . 
It was unmistakeable moreover that the sense of being in the dark now pressed on him more sharply creating thereby the need for a louder and livelier whistle . 
He whistled long and hard after sending his message he whistled again and again in celebration of Chad's news there was an interval of a fortnight in which this exercise helped him . 
The increase of his darkness , however , and the quickening , as I have called it , of his tune , resided in the fact that he was hearing almost nothing . 
He had for some time been aware that he was hearing less than before , and he was now clearly following a process by which Mrs. Newsome's letters could but logically stop . 
She wouldn't write till Sarah should have seen him and reported on him . 
It was strange , though it might well be less so than his own behaviour appeared at Woollett . 
When he went back to Maria Gostrey it was for the change to something else . 
And yet after all the change scarcely operated for he talked to her of Mrs. Newsome in these days as he had never talked before . 
He had hitherto observed in that particular a discretion and a law considerations that at present broke down quite as if relations had altered . 
His relation with Maria as well was , strangely enough , no longer quite the same this truth though not too disconcertingly had come up between them on the renewal of their meetings . 
He could toddle alone , and the difference that showed was extraordinary . 
It was the proportions that were changed , and the proportions were at all times , he philosophised , the very conditions of perception , the terms of thought . 
It would never be given to him certainly to inspire a greater kindness . 
She had decked him out for others , and he saw at this point at least nothing she would ever ask for . 
She only wondered and questioned and listened , rendering him the homage of a wistful speculation . 
She expressed it repeatedly he was already far beyond her , and she must prepare herself to lose him . 
There was but one little chance for her . 
Often as she had said it he met it for it was a touch he liked each time the same way . 
My coming to grief ? Yes then I might patch you up . 
Oh for my real smash , if it takes place , there will be no patching . 
But you surely don't mean it will kill you . 
It will make me old . 
Ah nothing can do that ! The wonderful and special thing about you is that you ARE , at this time of day , youth . 
She made him believe them , and they became thereby as impersonal as truth itself . 
It's just your particular charm . 
His answer too was always the same . 
Of course I'm youth youth for the trip to Europe . 
I began to be young , or at least to get the benefit of it , the moment I met you at Chester , and that's what has been taking place ever since . 
I never had the benefit at the proper time which comes to saying that I never had the thing itself . 
I'm having the benefit at this moment I had it the other day when I said to Chad 'Wait' I shall have it still again when Sarah Pocock arrives . 
I don't get drunk I don't pursue the ladies I don't spend money I don't even write sonnets . 
But nevertheless I'm making up late for what I didn't have early . 
I cultivate my little benefit in my own little way . 
It amuses me more than anything that has happened to me in all my life . 
They may say what they like it's my surrender , it's my tribute , to youth . 
One puts that in where one can it has to come in somewhere , if only out of the lives , the conditions , the feelings of other persons . 
Though they're young enough , my pair , I don't say they're , in the freshest way , their own absolutely prime adolescence for that has nothing to do with it . 
The point is that they're mine . 
Yes , they're my youth since somehow at the right time nothing else ever was . 
What I meant just now therefore is that it would all go go before doing its work if they were to fail me . 
On which , just here , Miss Gostrey inveterately questioned . 
What do you , in particular , call its work ? Well , to see me through . 
But through what ? she liked to get it all out of him . 
That was all that would come . 
It regularly gave her none the less the last word . 
Don't you remember how in those first days of our meeting it was I who was to see you through ? Remember ? Tenderly , deeply he always rose to it . 
You're just doing your part in letting me maunder to you thus . 
Ah don't speak as if my part were small since whatever else fails you YOU won't , ever , ever , ever ? he thus took her up . 
Oh I beg your pardon you necessarily , you inevitably WILL . 
Your conditions that's what I mean won't allow me anything to do for you . 
Let alone I see what you mean that I'm drearily dreadfully old . 
I AM , but there's a service possible for you to render that I know , all the same , I shall think of . 
And what will it be ? This , in fine , however , she would never tell him . 
You shall hear only if your smash takes place . 
As that's really out of the question , I won't expose myself'' a point at which , for reasons of his own , Strether ceased to press . 
He attached an added importance , as the days elapsed , to the arrival of the Pococks he had even a shameful sense of waiting for it insincerely and incorrectly . 
He had abundantly seen at home what they were in the habit of doing , and he had not at present the smallest ground . 
If he was by an inexorable logic to pay for it he was literally impatient to know the cost , and he held himself ready to pay in instalments . 
The first instalment would be precisely this entertainment of Sarah as a consequence of which moreover . 
he should know vastly better how he stood . 
Book Eighth I Strether rambled alone during these few days , the effect of the incident of the previous week having been to simplify in a marked fashion his mixed relations with Waymarsh . 
Strether felt that when he heard of the approach of the Pococks the impulse of pity quite sprang up in him beside the impulse of triumph . 
That was exactly why Waymarsh had looked at him with eyes in which the heat of justice was measured and shaded . 
Explicit resentment of his course would have made him take the floor , and the thump of his fist on the table would have affirmed him as consciously incorruptible . 
This made for independence on Strether's part , and he had in truth at no moment of his stay been so free to go and come . 
Strether wasn't otherwise concerned with it than for its so testifying a pleasant multitudinous image in which he took comfort . 
He took comfort , by the same stroke , in the swing of Chad's pendulum back from that other swing , the sharp jerk towards Woollett , so stayed by his own hand . 
He had the entertainment of thinking that if he had for that moment stopped the clock it was to promote the next minute this still livelier motion . 
He had already hovered more than once about that possibility , been aware of it , in the course of ostensible strolls , as lurking but round the corner . 
From the moment he actively pursued the charming associate of his adventure , from that moment his position weakened , for he was then acting in an interested way . 
It was only within a few days that he had fixed himself a limit he promised himself his consistency should end with Sarah's arrival . 
It was arguing correctly to feel the title to a free hand conferred on him by this event . 
If he wasn't to be let alone he should be merely a dupe to act with delicacy . 
If he wasn't to be trusted he could at least take his ease . 
If he was to be placed under control he gained leave to try what his position MIGHT agreeably give him . 
An ideal rigour would perhaps postpone the trial till after the Pococks had shown their spirit and it was to an ideal rigour that he had quite promised himself to conform . 
Suddenly , however , on this particular day , he felt a particular fear under which everything collapsed . 
He knew abruptly that he was afraid of himself and yet not in relation to the effect on his sensibilities of another hour of Madame de Vionnet . 
What he dreaded was the effect of a single hour of Sarah Pocock , as to whom he was visited , in troubled nights , with fantastic waking dreams . 
He saw himself , under her direction , recommitted to Woollett as juvenile offenders are committed to reformatories . 
It wasn't of course that Woollett was really a place of discipline but he knew in advance that Sarah's salon at the hotel would be . 
It was represented with supreme vividness by Madame de Vionnet , and that is why , in a word , he waited no longer . 
He had seen in a flash that he must anticipate Mrs. Pocock . 
He was accordingly much disappointed on now learning from the portress that the lady of his quest was not in Paris . 
She had gone for some days to the country . 
There was nothing in this accident but what was natural yet it produced for poor Strether a drop of all confidence . 
It was suddenly as if he should never see her again , and as if moreover he had brought it on himself by not having been quite kind to her . 
The only tone he aimed at with confidence was a full tone which was necessarily difficult in the absence of a full knowledge . 
The Pococks were a quantity as yet unmeasured , and , as he had practically brought them over , so this witness had to that extent exposed himself . 
He wanted to feel right about it , but could only , at the best , for the time , feel vague . 
They talked of him , the two others , as they drove , and Strether put Chad in possession of much of his own strained sense of things . 
For it's your mother's own boat that she's pulling . 
Ah , said Chad , Mother's worth fifty of Sally ! A thousand but when you presently meet her , all the same you'll be meeting your mother's representative just as I shall . 
I feel like the outgoing ambassador , said Strether , doing honour to his appointed successor . 
Chad had done exactly what he had promised him a fortnight previous had accepted without another question his plea for delay . 
He was waiting cheerfully and handsomely , but also inscrutably and with a slight increase perhaps of the hardness originally involved in his acquired high polish . 
He was neither excited nor depressed was easy and acute and deliberate unhurried unflurried unworried , only at most a little less amused than usual . 
The result at any rate was now to be offered to Sally which Strether , so far as that was concerned , was glad to be there to witness . 
Oh those were determinations she must herself arrive at since she wanted so much to see , let her see then and welcome . 
She had come out in the pride of her competence , yet it hummed in Strether's inner sense that she practically wouldn't see . 
That this was moreover what Chad shrewdly suspected was clear from a word that next dropped from him . 
They're children they play at life ! and the exclamation was significant and reassuring . 
Strether was still more sharply struck , hereupon , with Chad's lucidity . 
Why , isn't that exactly to get a sight of the company I keep what she has come out for ? Yes I'm afraid it is , Strether unguardedly replied . 
Chad's quick rejoinder lighted his precipitation . 
Why do you say you're afraid ? Well , because I feel a certain responsibility . 
It's my testimony , I imagine , that will have been at the bottom of Mrs. Pocock's curiosity . 
My letters , as I've supposed you to understand from the beginning , have spoken freely . 
I've certainly said my little say about Madame de Vionnet . 
All that , for Chad , was beautifully obvious . 
Yes , but you've only spoken handsomely . 
Never more handsomely of any woman . 
But it's just that tone ! That tone , said Chad , that has fetched her ? I dare say but I've no quarrel with you about it . 
And no more has Madame de Vionnet . 
Don't you know by this time how she likes you ? Oh ! and Strether had , with his groan , a real pang of melancholy . 
For all I've done for her ! Ah you've done a great deal . 
I've done THIS ! Well , this is all right . 
She likes , Chad comfortably remarked , to be liked . 
It gave his companion a moment's thought . 
And she's sure Mrs. Pocock WILL ? No , I say that for you . 
She likes your liking her it's so much , as it were , Chad laughed , to the good . 
However , she doesn't despair of Sarah either , and is prepared , on her own side , to go all lengths . 
In the way of appreciation ? Yes , and of everything else . 
In the way of general amiability , hospitality and welcome . 
She's under arms , Chad laughed again she's prepared . 
Strether took it in then as if an echo of Miss Barrace were in the air She's wonderful . 
It was in fact a fresh evocation and the evocation had before many minutes another consequence . 
Well , I shall see her oftener now . 
I shall see her as much as I like by your leave which is what I hitherto haven't done . 
It has been , said Chad , but without reproach , only your own fault . 
I tried to bring you together , and SHE , my dear fellow I never saw her more charming to any man . 
But you've got your extraordinary ideas . 
Well , I DID have , Strether murmured , while he felt both how they had possessed him and how they had now lost their authority . 
He couldn't have traced the sequence to the end , but it was all because of Mrs. Pocock . 
Mrs. Pocock might be because of Mrs. Newsome , but that was still to be proved . 
What came over him was the sense of having stupidly failed to profit where profit would have been precious . 
It had been open to him to see so much more of her , and he had but let the good days pass . 
What her visit of inquisition might achieve in other directions was as yet all obscure only not obscure that it would do supremely much to bring two earnest persons together . 
It was brave to Strether to hear him talk as if the line of wisdom they had struck out was to make things ravishing to the Pococks . 
No , if Madame de Vionnet compassed THAT , compassed the ravishment of the Pococks , Madame de Vionnet would be prodigious . 
It would be a beautiful plan if it succeeded , and it all came to the question of Sarah's being really bribeable . 
The precedent of his own case helped Strether perhaps but little to consider she might prove so it being distinct that her character would rather make for every possible difference . 
This idea of his own bribeability set him apart for himself with the further mark in fact that his case was absolutely proved . 
The only difficulty was that he couldn't quite have said with what . 
It was as if he had sold himself , but hadn't somehow got the cash . 
That , however , was what , characteristically , WOULD happen to him . 
It would naturally be his kind of traffic . 
She hasn't come out , you know , to be bamboozled . 
We may all be ravishing nothing perhaps can be more easy for us but she hasn't come out to be ravished . 
She has come out just simply to take you home . 
Oh well , with HER I'll go , said Chad good humouredly . 
I suppose you'll allow THAT . 
It was at this that Strether spoke . 
Ah there you are ! I think if you really wanted to go ! Well ? said Chad to bring it out . 
Well , you wouldn't trouble about our good time . 
You wouldn't care what sort of a time we have . 
Chad could always take in the easiest way in the world any ingenious suggestion . 
But can I help it ? I'm too decent . 
Yes , you're too decent ! Strether heavily sighed . 
And he felt for the moment as if it were the preposterous end of his mission . 
It ministered for the time to this temporary effect that Chad made no rejoinder . 
But he spoke again as they came in sight of the station . 
Do you mean to introduce her to Miss Gostrey ? As to this Strether was ready . 
No. But haven't you told me they know about her ? I think I've told you your mother knows . 
And won't she have told Sally ? That's one of the things I want to see . 
And if you find she HAS ? Will I then , you mean , bring them together ? Yes , said Chad with his pleasant promptness to show her there's nothing in it . 
I don't know that I care very much what she may think there's in it . 
Not if it represents what Mother thinks ? Ah what DOES your mother think ? There was in this some sound of bewilderment . 
But they were just driving up , and help , of a sort , might after all be quite at hand . 
Isn't that , my dear man , what we're both just going to make out ? II Strether quitted the station half an hour later in different company . 
His impression had been nothing but what was inevitable he said that to himself yet relief and reassurance had softly dropped upon him . 
Strether had seen Mrs. Newsome reserved he had literally heard her silent , though he had never known her unpleasant . 
It was the case with Mrs. Pocock that he had known HER unpleasant , even though he had never known her not affable . 
She had forms of affability that were in a high degree assertive nothing for instance had ever been more striking than that she was affable to Jim . 
Though this analogy dropped as soon as she was on the platform it had lasted long enough to make him feel all the advantage , as it were , of his relief . 
He had suddenly sounded the whole depth , had gasped at what he might have lost . 
He wasn't going to have Sarah write to her mother that night that he was in any way altered or strange . 
Even if she had come out to flash those lights more than yet appeared she wouldn't make much headway against mere pleasantness . 
He counted on being able to be merely pleasant to the end , and if only from incapacity moreover to formulate anything different . 
There were positively five minutes in which the last word seemed of necessity to abide with a Woollett represented by a Mamie . 
She was robust and conveniently tall just a trifle too bloodlessly fair perhaps , but with a pleasant public familiar radiance that affirmed her vitality . 
They were there to congratulate , these images , and Strether's renewed vision , on this hint , completed the idea . 
What Mamie was like was the happy bride , the bride after the church and just before going away . 
She wasn't the mere maiden , and yet was only as much married as that quantity came to . 
She was in the brilliant acclaimed festal stage . 
He had often , in spite of himself , wondered if Chad but too probably were not with Jeanne the object of a still and shaded flame . 
It was in the cab with Jim that impressions really crowded on Strether , giving him the strangest sense of length of absence from people among whom he had lived for years . 
Having them thus come out to him was as if he had returned to find them and the droll promptitude of Jim's mental reaction threw his own initiation far back into the past . 
Strether felt in it the intention of homage , but , with a curiosity otherwise occupied , postponed taking it up . 
Strether felt the confidence , and that , as the look between them was an exchange , what he himself gave back was relatively vague . 
This comparison of notes however could wait everything struck him as depending on the effect produced by Chad . 
He had before this had many moments of wondering if he himself weren't perhaps changed even as Chad was changed . 
Only what in Chad was conspicuous improvement well , he had no name ready for the working , in his own organism , of his own more timid dose . 
He should have to see first what this action would amount to . 
You're right we haven't quite known what you mean , Mother and I , but now we see . 
Chad's magnificent what can one want more ? If THIS is the kind of thing ! On which they might , as it were , have embraced and begun to work together . 
Possibly , no doubt , also , he made too much of Chad's display . 
It was more probably on the whole the former so that that would be the drawback of the bridling brightness . 
Yes , they would bridle and be bright they would make the best of what was before them , but their observation would fail it would be beyond them they simply wouldn't understand . 
He was nothing compared to Sally , and not so much by reason of Sally's temper and will as by that of her more developed type and greater acquaintance with the world . 
The impression he made on our friend was another of the things that marked our friend's road . 
Pocock was normally and consentingly though not quite wittingly out of the question . 
He seemed to say that there was a whole side of life on which the perfectly usual WAS for leading Woollett business men to be out of the question . 
He made no more of it than that , and Strether , so far as Jim was concerned , desired to make no more . 
This occasion indeed , whatever that fancy represented , was not a time of sensible exclusion for Jim , who was in a state of manifest response to the charm of his adventure . 
There were signs in him , though none of them plaintive , of always paying for others and the principal one perhaps was just this failure of type . 
Strether indulged him even while wondering if what Sally wanted her brother to go back for was to become like her husband . 
Why I want to come right out and live here myself . 
And I want to live while I AM here too . 
I feel with YOU oh you've been grand , old man , and I've twigged that it ain't right to worry Chad . 
I don't mean to persecute him I couldn't in conscience . 
It's thanks to you at any rate that I'm here , and I'm sure I'm much obliged . 
There were things in this speech that Strether let pass for the time . 
Where did he get his capacity , Jim asked , over here ? He didn't get it over here , and the wonderful thing is that over here he hasn't inevitably lost it . 
He has a natural turn for business , an extraordinary head . 
He comes by that , Strether explained , honestly enough . 
He's in that respect his father's son , and also for she's wonderful in her way too his mother's . 
He has other tastes and other tendencies but Mrs. Newsome and your wife are quite right about his having that . 
Well , I guess he is ! Jim Pocock comfortably sighed . 
Because , you see , I've greatly liked it . 
I've liked my Paris , I dare say I've liked it too much . 
Oh you old wretch ! Jim gaily exclaimed . 
But nothing's concluded , Strether went on . 
The case is more complex than it looks from Woollett . 
Oh well , it looks bad enough from Woollett ! Jim declared . 
Even after all I've written ? Jim bethought himself . 
Isn't it what you've written that has made Mrs. Newsome pack us off ? That at least and Chad's not turning up ? Strether made a reflexion of his own . 
That she should do something was , no doubt , inevitable , and your wife has therefore of course come out to act . 
Oh yes , Jim concurred to act . 
But Sally comes out to act , you know , he lucidly added , every time she leaves the house . 
She never comes out but she DOES act . 
She's acting moreover now for her mother , and that fixes the scale . 
Then he wound up , opening all his senses to it , with a renewed embrace of pleasant Paris . 
We haven't all the same at Woollett got anything like this . 
I'm bound to say for you all that you strike me as having arrived in a very mild and reasonable frame of mind . 
You don't show your claws . 
I felt just now in Mrs. Pocock no symptom of that . 
She isn't fierce , he went on . 
I'm such a nervous idiot that I thought she might be . 
They wear their fur the smooth side out the warm side in . 
Yes and Strether's concurrence had a positive precipitation they're about as intense as they can live . 
They don't lash about and shake the cage , said Jim , who seemed pleased with his analogy and it's at feeding time that they're quietest . 
But they always get there . 
They do indeed they always get there ! Strether replied with a laugh that justified his confession of nervousness . 
He disliked to be talking sincerely of Mrs. Newsome with Pocock he could have talked insincerely . 
It was as if a queer truth in his companion's metaphor had rolled over him with a rush . 
Jim meanwhile however , it was true , slipped characteristically into shallowness from the moment he ceased to speak out of the experience of a husband . 
But of course Chad has now the advantage of being there before her . 
If he doesn't work that for all it's worth ! He sighed with contingent pity at his brother in law's possible want of resource . 
If they were ALL going to see nothing ! Strether knew , as this came back to him , that he was also letting Pocock represent for him what Mrs. Newsome wouldn't see . 
Has Mrs. Newsome at all given way ? 'Given way' ? Jim echoed it with the practical derision of his sense of a long past . 
Under the strain , I mean , of hope deferred , of disappointment repeated and thereby intensified . 
Oh is she prostrate , you mean ? he had his categories in hand . 
Why yes , she's prostrate just as Sally is . 
But they're never so lively , you know , as when they're prostrate . 
Ah Sarah's prostrate ? Strether vaguely murmured . 
It's when they're prostrate that they most sit up . 
And Mrs. Newsome's sitting up ? All night , my boy for YOU ! And Jim fetched him , with a vulgar little guffaw , a thrust that gave relief to the picture . 
But he had got what he wanted . 
He felt on the spot that this WAS the real word from Woollett . 
So don't you go home ! Jim added while he alighted and while his friend , letting him profusely pay the cabman , sat on in a momentary muse . 
Strether wondered if that were the real word too . 
She was alone , he found himself assuming , with Sarah , and there was a bearing in that somehow beyond his control on his personal fate . 
Yet she was only saying something quite easy and independent the thing she had come , as a good friend of Chad's , on purpose to say . 
There isn't anything at all ? I should be so delighted . 
It was clear enough , when they were there before him , how she had been received . 
He saw this , as Sarah got up to greet him , from something fairly hectic in Sarah's face . 
He had , conspicuously , tact , besides a stiff general view and this was why he had left Mrs. Pocock to struggle alone . 
He would outstay the visitor he would unmistakeably wait to what had he been doomed for months past but waiting ? Therefore she was to feel that she had him in reserve . 
What support she drew from this was still to be seen , for , although Sarah was vividly bright , she had given herself up for the moment to an ambiguous flushed formalism . 
She had had to reckon more quickly than she expected but it concerned her first of all to signify that she was not to be taken unawares . 
Strether arrived precisely in time for her showing it . 
Oh you're too good but I don't think I feel quite helpless . 
I have my brother and these American friends . 
And then you know I've been to Paris . 
I KNOW Paris , said Sally Pocock in a tone that breathed a certain chill on Strether's heart . 
Ah but a woman , in this tiresome place where everything's always changing , a woman of good will , Madame de Vionnet threw off , can always help a woman . 
I'm sure you 'know' but we know perhaps different things . 
She too , visibly , wished to make no mistake but it was a fear of a different order and more kept out of sight . 
She struck him as dressed , as arranged , as prepared infinitely to conciliate with the very poetry of good taste in her view of the conditions of her early call . 
She was ready to advise about dressmakers and shops she held herself wholly at the disposition of Chad's family . 
Strether noticed her card on the table her coronet and her Comtesse and the imagination was sharp in him of certain private adjustments in Sarah's mind . 
She had never , he was sure , sat with a Comtesse before , and such was the specimen of that class he had been keeping to play on her . 
She looked much as she had looked to him that morning at Notre Dame he noted in fact the suggestive sameness of her discreet and delicate dress . 
It seemed to speak perhaps a little prematurely or too finely of the sense in which she would help Mrs. Pocock with the shops . 
The way that lady took her in , moreover , added depth to his impression of what Miss Gostrey , by their common wisdom , had escaped . 
He winced as he saw himself but for that timely prudence ushering in Maria as a guide and an example . 
There was however a touch of relief for him in his glimpse , so far as he had got it , of Sarah's line . 
Madame de Vionnet had , for that matter , lightly taken this up . 
Ah then you've a turn for that , an affinity that belongs to your family . 
Your brother , though his long experience makes a difference , I admit , has become one of us in a marvellous way . 
And she appealed to Strether in the manner of a woman who could always glide off with smoothness into another subject . 
To meet his fellow visitor's invocation and , with Sarah's brilliant eyes on him , answer , WAS quite sufficiently to step into her boat . 
During the rest of the time her visit lasted he felt himself proceed to each of the proper offices , successively , for helping to keep the adventurous skiff afloat . 
It rocked beneath him , but he settled himself in his place . 
He took up an oar and , since he was to have the credit of pulling , pulled . 
Oh I've not let myself go very far , Strether answered , feeling quite as if he had been called upon to hint to Mrs. Pocock how Parisians could talk . 
I'm only afraid of showing I haven't let myself go far enough . 
I've taken a good deal of time , but I must quite have had the air of not budging from one spot . 
What has really happened has been that , all the while , I've done what I came out for . 
Yet it only at first gave Madame de Vionnet a chance immediately to take him up . 
You've renewed acquaintance with your friend you've learnt to know him again . 
She spoke with such cheerful helpfulness that they might , in a common cause , have been calling together and pledged to mutual aid . 
Waymarsh , at this , as if he had been in question , straightway turned from the window . 
Oh yes , Countess he has renewed acquaintance with ME , and he HAS , I guess , learnt something about me , though I don't know how much he has liked it . 
It's for Strether himself to say whether he has felt it justifies his course . 
I was thinking of Mr. Newsome , of whom we think so much and with whom , precisely , Mrs. Pocock has given herself the opportunity to take up threads . 
What a pleasure for you both ! Madame de Vionnet , with her eyes on Sarah , bravely continued . 
Mrs. Pocock met her handsomely , but Strether quickly saw she meant to accept no version of her movements or plans from any other lips . 
I've never wanted for opportunities to see my brother . 
We've many things to think of at home , and great responsibilities and occupations , and our home's not an impossible place . 
We've plenty of reasons , Sarah continued a little piercingly , for everything we do and in short she wouldn't give herself the least little scrap away . 
But she added as one who was always bland and who could afford a concession I've come because well , because we do come . 
Ah then fortunately ! Madame de Vionnet breathed it to the air . 
I think it probable , said Mrs. Pocock , that I shall have the opportunity of going to my brother's I've no doubt it's very pleasant indeed . 
This left her free to reply only to what had been said . 
That the Boulevard Malesherbes may be common ground for us offers me the best prospect I see for the pleasure of meeting you again . 
Oh I shall come to see you , since you've been so good and Mrs. Pocock looked her invader well in the eyes . 
He quite took in , however , that she would really return her visitor's civility she wouldn't report again at Woollett without at least so much producible history as that in her pocket . 
I want extremely to be able to show you my little daughter . 
Madame de Vionnet went on and I should have brought her with me if I hadn't wished first to ask your leave . 
I was in hopes I should perhaps find Miss Pocock , of whose being with you I've heard from Mr. Newsome and whose acquaintance I should so much like my child to make . 
If I have the pleasure of seeing her and you do permit it I shall venture to ask her to be kind to Jeanne . 
Mr. Strether will tell you she beautifully kept it up that my poor girl is gentle and good and rather lonely . 
They've made friends , he and she , ever so happily , and he doesn't , I believe , think ill of her . 
As for Jeanne herself he has had the same success with her that I know he has had here wherever he has turned . 
It was as if he had positively waited in suspense for something from her that would let him in deeper , so that he might show her how he could take it . 
And what did in fact come as she drew out a little her farewell served sufficiently the purpose . 
When does one ever see you ? I wait at home and I languish . 
You'll have rendered me the service , Mrs. Pocock , at least , she wound up , of giving me one of my much too rare glimpses of this gentleman . 
I certainly should be sorry to deprive you of anything that seems so much , as you describe it , your natural due . 
Mr. Strether and I are very old friends , Sarah allowed , but the privilege of his society isn't a thing I shall quarrel about with any one . 
I should like much better , he laughed , to see you fight for me . 
But something admonished him now that it was too late unless indeed it were possibly too early and that he at any rate shouldn't have pleased Mrs. Pocock the more by it . 
Madame de Vionnet had already , however , come to his aid , and Waymarsh , as if for further participation , moved again back to them . 
The real truth is , you know , that you sacrifice one without mercy to dear old Maria . 
She leaves no room in your life for anybody else . 
Do you know , she enquired of Mrs. Pocock , about dear old Maria ? The worst is that Miss Gostrey is really a wonderful woman . 
Oh yes indeed , Strether answered for her , Mrs. Pocock knows about Miss Gostrey . 
Your mother , Sarah , must have told you about her your mother knows everything , he sturdily pursued . 
And I cordially admit , he added with his conscious gaiety of courage , that she's as wonderful a woman as you like . 
Well , he won't let you see her , you know , Madame de Vionnet sympathetically threw in . 
He never lets me old friends as we are I mean as I am with Maria . 
He reserves her for his best hours keeps her consummately to himself only gives us others the crumbs of the feast . 
Well , Countess , I'VE had some of the crumbs , Waymarsh observed with weight and covering her with his large look which led her to break in before he could go on . 
Comment donc , he shares her with YOU ? she exclaimed in droll stupefaction . 
I can post you about the lady , Mrs. Pocock , so far as you may care to hear . 
I've seen her quite a number of times , and I was practically present when they made acquaintance . 
I've kept my eye on her right along , but I don't know as there's any real harm in her . 
'Harm' ? Madame de Vionnet quickly echoed . 
Why she's the dearest and cleverest of all the clever and dear . 
Well , you run her pretty close , Countess , Waymarsh returned with spirit though there's no doubt she's pretty well up in things . 
She knows her way round Europe . 
Above all there's no doubt she does love Strether . 
Something deep something built on their old old relation passed , in this complexity , between them he got the side wind of a loyalty that stood behind all actual queer questions . 
Waymarsh's dry bare humour as it gave itself to be taken gloomed out to demand justice . 
The sombre glow stared it at him till it fairly sounded out to save you , poor old man , to save you to save you in spite of yourself . 
Yet it was somehow just this communication that showed him to himself as more than ever lost . 
Still another result of it was to put before him as never yet that between his comrade and the interest represented by Sarah there was already a basis . 
Beyond all question now , yes Waymarsh had been in occult relation with Mrs. Newsome out , out it all came in the very effort of his face . 
Our friend understood and approved he had the sense that they wouldn't otherwise speak of it . 
This would be all , and it would mark in himself a kind of intelligent generosity . 
It was with grim Sarah then Sarah grim for all her grace that Waymarsh had begun at ten o'clock in the morning to save him . 
I keep her to myself . 
But I hope I shan't miss her too much . 
Madame de Vionnet instantly rallied . 
And you know though it might occur to one it isn't in the least that he's ashamed of her . 
She's really in a way extremely good looking . 
Ah but extremely ! Strether laughed while he wondered at the odd part he found thus imposed on him . 
It continued to be so by every touch from Madame de Vionnet . 
Well , as I say , you know , I wish you would keep ME a little more to yourself . 
Couldn't you name some day for me , some hour and better soon than late ? I'll be at home whenever it best suits you . 
There I can't say fairer . 
Strether thought a moment while Waymarsh and Mrs. Pocock affected him as standing attentive . 
I did lately call on you . 
Last week while Chad was out of town . 
Yes and I was away , as it happened , too . 
You choose your moments well . 
But don't wait for my next absence , for I shan't make another , Madame de Vionnet declared , while Mrs. Pocock's here . 
That vow needn't keep you long , fortunately , Sarah observed with reasserted suavity . 
I shall be at present but a short time in Paris . 
I have my plans for other countries . 
I meet a number of charming friends and her voice seemed to caress that description of these persons . 
Ah then , her visitor cheerfully replied , all the more reason ! To morrow , for instance , or next day ? she continued to Strether . 
Tuesday would do for me beautifully . 
And at half past five ? or at six ? It was ridiculous , but Mrs. Pocock and Waymarsh struck him as fairly waiting for his answer . 
It was indeed as if they were arranged , gathered for a performance , the performance of Europe by his confederate and himself . 
Well , the performance could only go on . 
And now at last Madame de Vionnet must leave them , though it carried , for herself , the performance a little further . 
I DID hope so much also to see Miss Pocock . 
Mayn't I still ? Sarah hesitated , but she rose equal . 
She'll return your visit with me . 
She's at present out with Mr. Pocock and my brother . 
I see of course Mr. Newsome has everything to show them . 
He has told me so much about her . 
My great desire's to give my daughter the opportunity of making her acquaintance . 
I'm always on the lookout for such chances for her . 
If I didn't bring her to day it was only to make sure first that you'd let me . 
After which the charming woman risked a more intense appeal . 
This was beginning well for a first day in Paris and the thing might be amusing yet . 
But Madame de Vionnet's earnestness was meanwhile beautiful . 
You may think me indiscreet , but I've SUCH a desire my Jeanne shall know an American girl of the really delightful kind . 
You see I throw myself for it on your charity . 
Let me say then , dear lady , to back your plea , that Miss Mamie is of the most delightful kind of all is charming among the charming . 
Even Waymarsh , though with more to produce on the subject , could get into motion in time . 
Yes , Countess , the American girl's a thing that your country must at least allow ours the privilege to say we CAN show you . 
But her full beauty is only for those who know how to make use of her . 
Ah then , smiled Madame de Vionnet , that's exactly what I want to do . 
I'm sure she has much to teach us . 
It was wonderful , but what was scarce less so was that Strether found himself , by the quick effect of it , moved another way . 
Oh that may be ! But don't speak of your own exquisite daughter , you know , as if she weren't pure perfection . 
I at least won't take that from you . 
Mademoiselle de Vionnet , he explained , in considerable form , to Mrs. Pocock , IS pure perfection . 
Mademoiselle de Vionnet IS exquisite . 
It had been perhaps a little portentous , but Ah ? Sarah simply glittered . 
Waymarsh himself , for that matter , apparently recognised , in respect to the facts , the need of a larger justice , and he had with it an inclination to Sarah . 
Miss Jane's strikingly handsome in the regular French style . 
Madame de Vionnet meanwhile , however , made her point in her own way . 
But her last fine turn was for Strether . 
They simply won't give any , and as a policy , you know what you call a parti pris , a deep game that's positively remarkable . 
That the outlook , however given the point of exposure hadn't cleared up half so much as he had reckoned was the first warning she received from him on his arrival . 
She had replied with indulgence that he was in too great a hurry , and had remarked soothingly that if she knew how to be patient surely HE might be . 
By the time he had explained to her why his impressions , though multiplied , still baffled him , it was as if he had been familiarly talking for hours . 
They baffled him because Sarah well , Sarah was deep , deeper than she had ever yet had a chance to show herself . 
Sarah , to a certainty , would have begun herself to feel it in him and this naturally put it in her power to torment him the more . 
From the moment she knew he COULD be tormented ! But WHY can you be ? his companion was surprised at his use of the word . 
Because I'm made so I think of everything . 
Ah one must never do that , she smiled . 
One must think of as few things as possible . 
Then , he answered , one must pick them out right . 
But all I mean is for I express myself with violence that she's in a position to watch me . 
There's an element of suspense for me , and she can see me wriggle . 
But my wriggling doesn't matter , he pursued . 
Besides , I shall wriggle out . 
The picture at any rate stirred in her an appreciation that he felt to be sincere . 
I don't see how a man can be kinder to a woman than you are to me . 
Well , kind was what he wanted to be yet even while her charming eyes rested on him with the truth of this he none the less had his humour of honesty . 
Not , however , he went on , that I want to talk to you about that . 
It's my own little affair , and I mentioned it simply as part of Mrs. Pocock's advantage . 
The effect she produced of representing her mother had been produced and that was just the immense , the uncanny part of it without her having so much as mentioned that lady . 
She had brought no message , had alluded to no question , had only answered his enquiries with hopeless limited propriety . 
She had invented a way of meeting them as if he had been a polite perfunctory poor relation , of distant degree that made them almost ridiculous in him . 
He couldn't moreover on his own side ask much without appearing to publish how he had lately lacked news a circumstance of which it was Sarah's profound policy not to betray a suspicion . 
These things , all the same , he wouldn't breathe to Madame de Vionnet much as they might make him walk up and down . 
It ended in fact by being quite beautiful between them , the number of things they had a manifest consciousness of not saying . 
The way Madame de Vionnet affected him to day was in itself a kind of demonstration of the happy employment of gifts . 
He felt as if somehow Madame de Vionnet WAS . 
The great question meanwhile was what Chad thought of his sister which was naturally ushered in by that of Sarah's apprehension of Chad . 
THAT they could talk of , and with a freedom purchased by their discretion in other senses . 
The difficulty however was that they were reduced as yet to conjecture . 
He had given them in the day or two as little of a lead as Sarah , and Madame de Vionnet mentioned that she hadn't seen him since his sister's arrival . 
And does that strike you as such an age ? She met it in all honesty . 
Oh I won't pretend I don't miss him . 
Sometimes I see him every day . 
But he's perfectly right , she hastened to add , and I wouldn't have him fail in any way at present for the world . 
I'd sooner not see him for three months . 
I begged him to be beautiful to them , and he fully feels it for himself . 
Strether turned away under his quick perception she was so odd a mixture of lucidity and mystery . 
She fell in at moments with the theory about her he most cherished , and she seemed at others to blow it into air . 
She spoke now as if her art were all an innocence , and then again as if her innocence were all an art . 
Oh he's giving himself up , and he'll do so to the end . 
How can he but want , now that it's within reach , his full impression ? which is much more important , you know , than either yours or mine . 
But he's just soaking , Strether said as he came back he's going in conscientiously for a saturation . 
I'm bound to say he IS very good . 
Ah , she quietly replied , to whom do you say it ? And then more quietly still He's capable of anything . 
Strether more than reaffirmed Oh he's excellent . 
I more and more like , he insisted , to see him with them though the oddity of this tone between them grew sharper for him even while they spoke . 
The occasion almost forced upon him some question as to how she had managed and as to the appearance such miracles presented from her own singularly close place of survey . 
The moment in fact however passed , giving way to more present history , and he continued simply to mark his appreciation of the happy truth . 
It's a tremendous comfort to feel how one can trust him . 
And then again while for a little she said nothing as if after all to HER trust there might be a special limit I mean for making a good show to them . 
Yes , she thoughtfully returned but if they shut their eyes to it ! Strether for an instant had his own thought . 
Madame de Vionnet weighed it . 
She may be persuasive and caressing with him she may be eloquent beyond words . 
She may get hold of him , she wound up well , as neither you nor I have . 
Yes , she MAY and now Strether smiled . 
But he has spent all his time each day with Jim . 
He's still showing Jim round . 
Then how about Jim ? Strether took a turn before he answered . 
Hasn't he given you Jim ? Hasn't he before this 'done' him for you ? He was a little at a loss . 
Doesn't he tell you things ? She hesitated . 
No and their eyes once more gave and took . 
You somehow make me see them or at least feel them . 
And I haven't asked too much , she added I've of late wanted so not to worry him . 
Ah for that , so have I , he said with encouraging assent so that as if she had answered everything they were briefly sociable on it . 
It threw him back on his other thought , with which he took another turn stopping again , however , presently with something of a glow . 
You see Jim's really immense . 
I think it will be Jim who'll do it . 
Get hold of him ? No just the other thing . 
And he showed now , our friend , how far he had worked it out . 
Oh dear Jim ! Madame de Vionnet vaguely smiled . 
Yes , literally dear Jim ! He's awful . 
What HE wants , heaven forgive him , is to help us . 
You mean she was eager help ME ? Well , Chad and me in the first place . 
But he throws you in too , though without as yet seeing you much . 
Only , so far as he does see you if you don't mind he sees you as awful . 
'Awful' ? she wanted it all . 
A regular bad one though of course of a tremendously superior kind . 
Dreadful , delightful , irresistible . 
Ah dear Jim ! I should like to know him . 
But will it do ? You may , you know , Strether suggested , disappoint him . 
She was droll and humble about it . 
But my wickedness then , she went on , is my recommendation for him ? Your wickedness and the charms with which , in such a degree as yours , he associates it . 
He understands , you see , that Chad and I have above all wanted to have a good time , and his view is simple and sharp . 
It's an effect that a lifetime of Woollett has quite been observed as having and I thus give it to you , in Jim's view , for what it's worth . 
Besides , he added , I don't think he really wants Chad back . 
If Chad doesn't come He'll have Madame de Vionnet quite apprehended more of the free hand ? Well , Chad's the bigger man . 
So he'll work now , en dessous , to keep him quiet ? No he won't 'work' at all , and he won't do anything en dessous . 
He's very decent and won't be a traitor in the camp . 
A warning ? He met it almost with glee . 
With which , as , taking it in , she seemed , in her recurrent alarm , bravely to gaze at the possibility , he completed his statement . 
But it IS too late . 
Thanks to you ! It drew from her again one of her indefinite reflexions . 
Oh 'me' after all ! He stood before her so exhilarated by his demonstration that he could fairly be jocular . 
You she could but answer him are better than anything . 
But she had another thought . 
WILL Mrs. Pocock come to me ? Oh yes she'll do that . 
As soon , that is , as my friend Waymarsh HER friend now leaves her leisure . 
Is he so much her friend as that ? Why , didn't you see it all at the hotel ? Oh she was amused 'all' is a good deal to say . 
I don't know I forget . 
I lost myself in HER . 
You were splendid , Strether returned but 'all' isn't a good deal to say it's only a little . 
Yet it's charming so far as it goes . 
She wants a man to herself . 
And hasn't she got you ? Do you think she looked at me or even at you as if she had ? Strether easily dismissed that irony . 
Every one , you see , must strike her as having somebody . 
You've got Chad and Chad has got you . 
I see she made of it what she could . 
Well , he on his side accepted that . 
And Maria has got me . 
But Mr. Jim whom has he got ? Oh he has got or it's as IF he had the whole place . 
But for Mr. Waymarsh she recalled isn't Miss Barrace before any one else ? He shook his head . 
Miss Barrace is a raffinee , and her amusement won't lose by Mrs. Pocock . 
It will gain rather especially if Sarah triumphs and she comes in for a view of it . 
How well you know us ! Madame de Vionnet , at this , frankly sighed . 
No it seems to me it's we that I know . 
I know Sarah it's perhaps on that ground only that my feet are firm . 
Waymarsh will take her round while Chad takes Jim and I shall be , I assure you delighted for both of them . 
Sarah will have had what she requires she will have paid her tribute to the ideal and he will have done about the same . 
We shall feel at least that . 
To be , you mean , all right to her ? To pay her every attention as soon as he has polished off Jim . 
He wants what Jim can give him and what Jim really won't though he has had it all , and more than all , from me . 
He wants in short his own personal impression , and he'll get it strong . 
But as soon as he has got it Mamie won't suffer . 
Oh Mamie mustn't SUFFER ! Madame de Vionnet soothingly emphasised . 
But Strether could reassure her . 
As soon as he has done with Jim , Jim will fall to me . 
It was as if in a moment she saw already yet she still waited . 
Then Is she really quite charming ? she asked . 
He had got up with his last words and gathered in his hat and gloves . 
I don't know I'm watching . 
I'm studying the case , as it were and I dare say I shall be able to tell you . 
Is it a case ? Yes I think so . 
At any rate I shall see . 
But haven't you known her before ? Yes , he smiled but somehow at home she wasn't a case . 
She has become one since . 
It was as if he made it out for himself . 
She has become one here . 
So very very soon ? He measured it , laughing . 
Not sooner than I did . 
And you became one ? Very very soon . 
Her intelligent eyes showed her thought of it . 
Ah but the day you arrived you met Maria . 
Whom has Miss Pocock met ? He paused again , but he brought it out . 
Hasn't she met Chad ? Certainly but not for the first time . 
And how does she see him ? Strether gave it up . 
How can one tell how a deep little girl sees a deep young man ? Is every one so deep ? Is she too ? So it strikes me deeper than I thought . 
But wait a little between us we'll make it out . 
You'll judge for that matter yourself . 
Madame de Vionnet looked for the moment fairly bent on the chance . 
Then she WILL come with her ? I mean Mamie with Mrs. Pocock ? Certainly . 
Her curiosity , if nothing else , will in any case work that . 
But leave it all to Chad . 
But he fell back on his confidence . 
Trust him all the way . 
He became still more advisory . 
When they do come give them plenty of Miss Jeanne . 
Let Mamie see her well . 
She looked for a moment as if she placed them face to face . 
For Mamie to hate her ? He had another of his corrective headshakes . 
She looked at him hard , and then as if it were what she must always come back to It's you I trust . 
But I was sincere , she said , at the hotel . 
I did , I do , want my child Well ? Strether waited with deference while she appeared to hesitate as to how to put it . 
Well , to do what she can for me . 
Strether for a little met her eyes on it after which something that might have been unexpected to her came from him . 
Poor little duck ! Not more expected for himself indeed might well have been her echo of it . 
Poor little duck ! But she immensely wants herself , she said , to see our friend's cousin . 
Is that what she thinks her ? It's what we call the young lady . 
He thought again then with a laugh Well , your daughter will help you . 
And now at last he took leave of her , as he had been intending for five minutes . 
But she went part of the way with him , accompanying him out of the room and into the next and the next . 
Strether fancied them , liked them , and , passing through them with her more slowly now , met a sharp renewal of his original impression . 
They could easily make him irrelevant . 
The oddity , the originality , the poetry he didn't know what to call it of Chad's connexion reaffirmed for him its romantic side . 
They ought to see this , you know . 
The Pococks ? she looked about in deprecation she seemed to see gaps he didn't . 
Mamie and Sarah Mamie in particular . 
I wish Mrs. Newsome herself could have a look . 
She stared , missing a little his logic . 
It would make a difference ? Her tone was so earnest that as he continued to look about he laughed . 
It might ! But you've told her , you tell me All about you ? Yes , a wonderful story . 
But there's all the indescribable what one gets only on the spot . 
Thank you ! she charmingly and sadly smiled . 
It's all about me here , he freely continued . 
But she seemed doomed always to come back to doubt . 
No one feels so much as YOU . 
So much the worse then for every one . 
They were by this time in the antechamber , still alone together , as she hadn't rung for a servant . 
YOU would have been a friend . 
I ? it startled him a little . 
For the reason you say . 
And then abruptly , as if bringing it out were somehow founded on that fact We're marrying Jeanne . 
It affected him on the spot as a move in a game , and he was even then not without the sense that that wasn't the way Jeanne should be married . 
But he quickly showed his interest , though as quickly afterwards struck him with an absurd confusion of mind . 
If I must tell you all , it is he himself who has put us in the way . 
I mean in the way of an opportunity that , so far as I can yet see , is all I could possibly have dreamed of . 
But our friend , she asked , hasn't then told you ? He has told me nothing . 
Well , it has come with rather a rush all in a very few days and hasn't moreover yet taken a form that permits an announcement . 
It's only for you absolutely you alone that I speak I so want you to know . 
Monsieur de Vionnet will accept what he MUST accept . 
He has proposed half a dozen things each one more impossible than the other and he wouldn't have found this if he lives to a hundred . 
Chad found it , she continued with her lighted , faintly flushed , her conscious confidential face , in the quietest way in the world . 
Or rather it found HIM for everything finds him I mean finds him right . 
You'll think we do such things strangely but at my age , she smiled , one has to accept one's conditions . 
Our young man's people had seen her one of his sisters , a charming woman we know all about them had observed her somewhere with me . 
She had spoken to her brother turned him on and we were again observed , poor Jeanne and I , without our in the least knowing it . 
It was at the beginning of the winter it went on for some time it outlasted our absence it began again on our return and it luckily seems all right . 
The young man had met Chad , and he got a friend to approach him as having a decent interest in us . 
Mr. Newsome looked well before he leaped he kept beautifully quiet and satisfied himself fully then only he spoke . 
It's what has for some time past occupied us . 
It seems as if it were what would do really , really all one could wish . 
There are only two or three points to be settled they depend on her father . 
But this time I think we're safe . 
Strether , consciously gaping a little , had fairly hung upon her lips . 
I hope so with all my heart . 
And then he permitted himself Does nothing depend on HER ? Ah naturally everything did . 
But she's pleased comme tout . 
She has been perfectly free and he our young friend is really a combination . 
You mean your future son in law ? Future if we all bring it off . 
Ah well , said Strether decorously , I heartily hope you may . 
There seemed little else for him to say , though her communication had the oddest effect on him . 
Vaguely and confusedly he was troubled by it feeling as if he had even himself been concerned in something deep and dim . 
He had allowed for depths , but these were greater and it was as if , oppressively indeed absurdly he was responsible for what they had now thrown up to the surface . 
It was through something ancient and cold in it what he would have called the real thing . 
There were too many connexions missing to make it tolerable he should do anything else . 
He was prepared to suffer before his own inner tribunal for Chad he was prepared to suffer even for Madame de Vionnet . 
But he wasn't prepared to suffer for the little girl So now having said the proper thing , he wanted to get away . 
She held him an instant , however , with another appeal . 
Do I seem to you very awful ? Awful ? Why so ? But he called it to himself , even as he spoke , his biggest insincerity yet . 
Our arrangements are so different from yours . 
Mine ? Oh he could dismiss that too ! I haven't any arrangements . 
Then you must accept mine all the more that they're excellent . 
They're founded on a vieille sagesse . 
There will be much more , if all goes well , for you to hear and to know , and everything , believe me , for you to like . 
Don't be afraid you'll be satisfied . 
It was all a wonder and made the whole case larger . 
And do you suppose HE who loves her so would do anything reckless or cruel ? He wondered what he supposed . 
Do you mean your young man ? I mean yours . 
It flashed for Strether the next moment a finer light , and the light deepened as she went on . 
He takes , thank God , the truest tenderest interest in her . 
Oh I'm sure of that ! You were talking , she said , about one's trusting him . 
You see then how I do . 
He waited a moment it all came . 
He felt he really did see . 
He wouldn't hurt her for the world , nor assuming she marries at all risk anything that might make against her happiness . 
And willingly , at least he would never hurt ME . 
With the initiative she now attributed to Chad it all made a sense , and this sense a light , a lead , was what had abruptly risen before him . 
All that Strether had made out was , while the man opened the door and impersonally waited , summed up in his last word . 
I don't think , you know , Chad will tell me anything . 
And I won't as yet speak to him . 
Ah that's as you'll think best . 
She had finally given him her hand , which he held a moment . 
How MUCH I have to judge ! Everything , said Madame de Vionnet a remark that was indeed with the refined disguised suppressed passion of her face what he most carried away . 
He was sorry again , gratefully sorry she was so out of it she who had really put him in but she had fortunately always her appetite for news . 
The pure flame of the disinterested burned in her cave of treasures as a lamp in a Byzantine vault . 
It was just now , as happened , that for so fine a sense as hers a near view would have begun to pay . 
If the equilibrium might only prevail ! Sarah was out with Waymarsh , Mamie was out with Chad , and Jim was out alone . 
Later on indeed he himself was booked to Jim , was to take him that evening to the Varieties which Strether was careful to pronounce as Jim pronounced them . 
Miss Gostrey drank it in . 
What then to night do the others do ? Well , it has been arranged . 
Waymarsh takes Sarah to dine at Bignons . 
And what do they do after ? They can't come straight home . 
No , they can't come straight home at least Sarah can't . 
It's their secret , but I think I've guessed it . 
Then as she waited The circus . 
It made her stare a moment longer , then laugh almost to extravagance . 
There's no one like you ! Like ME ? he only wanted to understand . 
Like all of you together like all of us Woollett , Milrose and their products . 
Ah then may Mr. Chad enjoy it as I did ! But she saw so much in things . 
Do they spend their evenings , your young people , like that , alone together ? Well , they're young people but they're old friends . 
I see , I see . 
And do THEY dine for a difference at Brebant's ? Oh where they dine is their secret too . 
But I've my idea that it will be , very quietly , at Chad's own place . 
She'll come to him there alone ? They looked at each other a moment . 
He has known her from a child . 
Besides , said Strether with emphasis , Mamie's remarkable . 
Do you mean she expects to bring it off ? Getting hold of him ? No I think not . 
But that's what I mean by so describing her . 
It's IF she does that she's splendid . 
But we'll see , he wound up , where she comes out . 
They're ALL splendid ! he declared with a sudden strange sound of wistfulness and envy . 
Happy ? it appeared , with their various difficulties , to surprise her . 
Well I seem to myself among them the only one who isn't . 
With your constant tribute to the ideal ? He had a laugh at his tribute to the ideal , but he explained after a moment his impression . 
I've already had my rushing . 
But aren't you , she asked by way of cheer , waiting with ME ? He looked at her in all kindness . 
Yes if it weren't for that ! And you help me to wait , she said . 
However , she went on , I've really something for you that will help you to wait and which you shall have in a minute . 
Only there's something more I want from you first . 
So do I. If it weren't , he again amusedly sighed , for THAT ! Well , you owe more to women than any man I ever saw . 
We do seem to keep you going . 
Miss Gostrey had a pause . 
You mean she has fallen in love ? I mean she wonders if she hasn't and it serves all her purpose . 
It has indeed , Maria laughed , served women's purposes before ! Yes for giving in . 
But I doubt if the idea as an idea has ever up to now answered so well for holding out . 
That's HER tribute to the ideal we each have our own . 
It's her romance and it seems to me better on the whole than mine . 
To have it in Paris too , he explained on this classic ground , in this charged infectious air , with so sudden an intensity well , it's more than she expected . 
She has had in short to recognise the breaking out for her of a real affinity and with everything to enhance the drama . 
Jim for instance ? Jim . 
Jim was made to enhance . 
It's the crowning touch it supplies the colour . 
And she herself unfortunately isn't that supplies the colour too . 
Miss Gostrey was all there . 
But somehow ! Is HE in love ? Strether looked at her a long time then looked all about the room then came a little nearer . 
Will you never tell any one in the world as long as ever you live ? Never . 
He thinks Sarah really is . 
But he has no fear , Strether hastened to add . 
Of her being affected by it ? Of HIS being . 
He likes it , but he knows she can hold out . 
He's helping her , he's floating her over , by kindness . 
Maria rather funnily considered it . 
And the circus afterwards which is cheaper , but which he'll find some means of making as dear as possible that's also HIS tribute to the ideal . 
They won't talk of anything worse than you and me . 
Well , we're bad enough perhaps , thank heaven , she laughed . 
to upset them ! Mr. Waymarsh at any rate is a hideous old coquette . 
And the next moment she had dropped everything for a different pursuit . 
What you don't appear to know is that Jeanne de Vionnet has become engaged . 
She's to marry it has been definitely arranged young Monsieur de Montbron . 
Then if you know it it's 'out' ? Don't I often know things that are NOT out ? However , she said , this will be out to morrow . 
But I see I've counted too much on your possible ignorance . 
You've been before me , and I don't make you jump as I hoped . 
He gave a gasp at her insight . 
You never fail ! I've HAD my jump . 
I had it when I first heard . 
Then if you knew why didn't you tell me as soon as you came in ? Because I had it from her as a thing not yet to be spoken of . 
From Madame de Vionnet herself ? As a probability not quite a certainty a good cause in which Chad has been working . 
You need wait no longer , she returned . 
It reached me yesterday roundabout and accidental , but by a person who had had it from one of the young man's own people as a thing quite settled . 
I was only keeping it for you . 
You thought Chad wouldn't have told me ? She hesitated . 
Well , if he hasn't He hasn't . 
And yet the thing appears to have been practically his doing . 
There we are ! Maria candidly echoed . 
I jumped , he continued to explain , because it means , this disposition of the daughter , that there's now nothing else nothing else but him and the mother . 
It simplifies he fully concurred . 
But that's precisely where we are . 
It marks a stage in his relation . 
The act is his answer to Mrs. Newsome's demonstration . 
It tells , Maria asked , the worst ? The worst . 
But is the worst what he wants Sarah to know ? He doesn't care for Sarah . 
At which Miss Gostrey's eyebrows went up . 
He wants his good friend to know the best . 
I mean the measure of his attachment . 
She asked for a sign , and he thought of that one . 
A concession to her jealousy ? Strether pulled up . 
Make it lurid for that makes my problem richer . 
Certainly , let us have it lurid for I quite agree with you that we want none of our problems poor . 
But let us also have it clear . 
I think he can have thought it would be charming if he COULD care . 
Nicer than being tied up to Marie ? Yes than the discomfort of an attachment to a person he can never hope , short of a catastrophe , to marry . 
And he was quite right , said Strether . 
It would certainly have been nicer . 
Even when a thing's already nice there mostly is some other thing that would have been nicer or as to which we wonder if it wouldn't . 
But his question was all the same a dream . 
He COULDn't care in that way . 
He IS tied up to Marie . 
The relation is too special and has gone too far . 
It's the very basis , and his recent lively contribution toward establishing Jeanne in life has been his definite and final acknowledgement to Madame de Vionnet that he has ceased squirming . 
I doubt meanwhile , he went on , if Sarah has at all directly attacked him . 
But won't he wish for his own satisfaction to make his ground good to her ? No he'll leave it to me , he'll leave everything to me . 
I 'sort of' feel he worked it out that the whole thing will come upon me . 
Yes , I shall have every inch and every ounce of it . 
I shall be USED for it ! And Strether lost himself in the prospect . 
Then he fancifully expressed the issue . 
To the last drop of my blood . 
Maria , however , roundly protested . 
Ah you'll please keep a drop for ME . 
I shall have a use for it ! which she didn't however follow up . 
She had come back the next moment to another matter . 
Mrs. Pocock , with her brother , is trusting only to her general charm ? So it would seem . 
And the charm's not working ? Well , Strether put it otherwise , She's sounding the note of home which is the very best thing she can do . 
The best for Madame de Vionnet ? The best for home itself . 
The natural one the right one . 
Right , Maria asked , when it fails ? Strether had a pause . 
Jim's the note of home . 
Ah surely not the note of Mrs. Newsome . 
But he had it all . 
The note of the home for which Mrs. Newsome wants him the home of the business . 
Jim stands , with his little legs apart , at the door of THAT tent and Jim is , frankly speaking , extremely awful . 
And you in , you poor thing , for your evening with him ? Oh he's all right for ME ! Strether laughed . 
Any one's good enough for ME . 
But Sarah shouldn't , all the same , have brought him . 
His friend was amused with this statement of it . 
Doesn't know , you mean , how bad he is ? Strether shook his head with decision . 
Then doesn't Mrs. Newsome ? It made him frankly do the same . 
Well , no since you ask me . 
Not really either ? Not at all . 
She rates him rather high . 
With which indeed , immediately , he took himself up . 
Well , he IS good too , in his way . 
It depends on what you want him for . 
Miss Gostrey , however , wouldn't let it depend on anything wouldn't have it , and wouldn't want him , at any price . 
It suits my book , she said , that he should be impossible and it suits it still better , she more imaginatively added , that Mrs. Newsome doesn't know he is . 
Strether , in consequence , had to take it from her , but he fell back on something else . 
I'll tell you who does really know . 
Mr. Waymarsh ? Never ! Never indeed . 
I'm not ALWAYS thinking of Mr. Waymarsh in fact I find now I never am . 
Then he mentioned the person as if there were a good deal in it . 
His own sister ? Oddly enough it but let her down . 
What good will that do ? None perhaps . 
By staying , accordingly , he took it creeping softly and vaguely about and waiting for Sarah to come in . 
She WOULD come in if he stayed long enough , and he had now more than ever the sense of her success in leaving him a prey to anxiety . 
It wasn't to be denied that she had had a happy instinct , from the point of view of Woollett , in placing him thus at the mercy of her own initiative . 
He couldn't doubt that , should she only oblige him by surprising him just as he then was , a clarifying scene of some sort would result from the concussion . 
He humbly circulated in this spirit till he suddenly had a fresh arrest . 
If the person were Sarah he might on the spot therefore be served to his taste . 
There was fortunately no one at hand to observe in respect to his valour that even on this completed reasoning he still hung fire . 
It was apparently for Sarah to come more into view he was in that case there at her service . 
She did however , as meanwhile happened , come more into view only she luckily came at the last minute as a contradiction of Sarah . 
With her arms on the balustrade and her attention dropped to the street she allowed Strether to watch her , to consider several things , without her turning round . 
But the oddity was that when he HAD so watched and considered he simply stepped back into the room without following up his advantage . 
He revolved there again for several minutes , quite as with something new to think of and as if the bearings of the possibility of Sarah had been superseded . 
For frankly , yes , it HAD bearings thus to find the girl in solitary possession . 
Her companions were plainly scattered Sarah would be off somewhere with Waymarsh and Chad off somewhere with Jim . 
It had been at the most , this mystery , an obsession oh an obsession agreeable and it had just now fallen into its place as at the touch of a spring . 
It had represented the possibility between them of some communication baffled by accident and delay the possibility even of some relation as yet unacknowledged . 
There was always their old relation , the fruit of the Woollett years but that and it was what was strangest had nothing whatever in common with what was now in the air . 
a course of English Literature re enforced by exams and teas and once more , finally , as very much in advance . 
It was moreover something in which they all took an interest the strength of their interest was in truth just the reason of her prudence . 
All this then , for five minutes , was vivid to Strether , and it put before him that , poor child , she had now but her prudence to amuse her . 
She turned with a start at his voice preoccupied with him though she might be , she was just a scrap disappointed . 
Little Bilham since little Bilham was , somewhat incongruously , expected appeared behindhand a circumstance by which Strether was to profit . 
For she WAS charming , when all was said and none the less so for the visible habit and practice of freedom and fluency . 
she was happy to meet . 
The great thing now for her visitor was that this was exactly what he had done it made so extraordinary a mixture of the brief and crowded hour . 
She was in HIS interest and not in Sarah's , and some sign of that was precisely what he had been feeling in her , these last days , as imminent . 
There had been at first , as he sat there with her , a moment during which he wondered if she meant to break ground in respect to his prime undertaking . 
That door stood so strangely ajar that he was half prepared to be conscious , at any juncture , of her having , of any one's having , quite bounced in . 
They talked most conveniently as if they had had no chance yet about Woollett and that had virtually the effect of their keeping the secret more close . 
Their little interview was like a picnic on a coral strand they passed each other , with melancholy smiles and looks sufficiently allusive , such cupfuls of water as they had saved . 
Especially sharp in Strether meanwhile was the conviction that his companion really knew , as we have hinted , where she had come out . 
It was at a very particular place only THAT she would never tell him it would be above all what he should have to puzzle for himself . 
This was what he hoped for , because his interest in the girl wouldn't be complete without it . 
No more would the appreciation to which she was entitled so assured was he that the more he saw of her process the more he should see of her pride . 
She saw , herself , everything but she knew what she didn't want , and that it was that had helped her . 
What didn't she want ? there was a pleasure lost for her old friend in not yet knowing , as there would doubtless be a thrill in getting a glimpse . 
Gently and sociably she kept that dark to him , and it was as if she soothed and beguiled him in other ways to make up for it . 
At the sound of these names Strether almost blushed to feel that he couldn't have sounded them first and yet couldn't either have justified his squeamishness . 
Mamie made them easy as he couldn't have begun to do , and yet it could only have cost her more than he should ever have had to spend . 
She abounded in praise of them , and after the manner of Woollett which made the manner of Woollett a loveable thing again to Strether . 
Nothing , she said of Jeanne , ought ever to happen to her she's so awfully right as she is . 
Another touch will spoil her so she oughtn't to BE touched . 
Ah but things , here in Paris , Strether observed , do happen to little girls . 
And then for the joke's and the occasion's sake Haven't you found that yourself ? That things happen ? Oh I'm not a little girl . 
I'm a big battered blowsy one . 
I don't care , Mamie laughed , WHAT happens . 
He risked accordingly a different question though conscious , as soon as he had spoken , that he seemed to place it in relation to her last speech . 
But that Mademoiselle de Vionnet is to be married I suppose you've heard of THAT . 
For all , he then found , he need fear ! Dear , yes the gentleman was there Monsieur de Montbron , whom Madame de Vionnet presented to us . 
And was he nice ? Mamie bloomed and bridled with her best reception manner . 
Any man's nice when he's in love . 
He's perfectly gone and I couldn't have borne it for her if he hadn't been . 
And through being in love too ? On which with a smile that struck him as wonderful Mamie had a wonderful answer . 
She doesn't know if she is or not . 
It made him again laugh out . 
Oh but YOU do ! She was willing to take it that way . 
Oh yes , I know everything . 
Mamie would be fat , too fat , at thirty but she would always be the person who , at the present sharp hour , had been disinterestedly tender . 
And SHALL you ? Perfectly . 
I shall tell her the matter with her is that she wants only too much to do right . 
To do right for her , naturally , said Mamie , is to please . 
Her mother , do you mean ? Her mother first . 
And then ? Well , 'then' Mr. Newsome . 
There was something really grand for him in the serenity of this reference . 
And last only Monsieur de Montbron ? Last only she good humouredly kept it up . 
I think I can speak for myself . 
Admiration was of itself almost accusatory , but nothing less would serve to show her how nearly he understood . 
He put out his hand for good bye with a Splendid , splendid , splendid ! And he left her , in her splendour , still waiting for little Bilham . 
The present evening had a different stamp if the company was much more numerous , so , inevitably , were the ideas set in motion . 
It was on the other hand , however , now strongly marked that the talkers moved , in respect to such matters , round an inner , a protected circle . 
They knew at any rate what really concerned them to night , and Strether had begun by keeping his companion close to it . 
He hadn't enquired , he had averted his head , but Chad had put him a pair of questions that themselves smoothed the ground . 
He hadn't answered the questions , he had replied that they were the young man's own affair and he had then seen perfectly that the latter's direction was already settled . 
It was a brave blind alley , where to pass was impossible and where , unless they stuck fast , they would have which was always awkward publicly to back out . 
They were touching bottom assuredly tonight the whole scene represented the terminus of the cul de sac . 
So could things go when there was a hand to keep them consistent a hand that pulled the wire with a skill at which the elder man more and more marvelled . 
He had determined Chad to wait , he had determined him to see he was therefore not to quarrel with the time given up to the business . 
Frankly treating the whole occasion of the presence of his relatives as an opportunity for amusement , he left it , no doubt , but scant margin as an opportunity for anything else . 
He suggested , invented , abounded yet all the while with the loosest easiest rein . 
She would alight from her headlong course more or less directly upon him it would be appointed to him , unquestionably , to receive her entire weight . 
Signs and portents of the experience thus in reserve for him had as it happened , multiplied even through the dazzle of Chad's party . 
However , as we have said , it worked just now for them equally to have found a corner a little apart . 
What particularly kept it apart was the circumstance that the music in the salon was admirable , with two or three such singers as it was a privilege to hear in private . 
Their presence gave a distinction to Chad's entertainment , and the interest of calculating their effect on Sarah was actually so sharp as to be almost painful . 
Those eyes during the wonderful dinner itself he hadn't once met having confessedly perhaps a little pusillanimously arranged with Chad that he should be on the same side of the table . 
But there was no use in having arrived now with little Bilham at an unprecedented point of intimacy unless he could pitch everything into the pot . 
But she wants him to show it THERE . 
He has no right to waste it on the likes of us . 
She wants him to move the whole thing over ? The whole thing with an important exception . 
Everything he has 'picked up' and the way he knows how . 
She sees no difficulty in that . 
She'd run the show herself , and she'll make the handsome concession that Woollett would be on the whole in some ways the better for it . 
Not that it wouldn't be also in some ways the better for Woollett . 
The people there are just as good . 
Just as good as you and these others ? Ah that may be . 
But such an occasion as this , whether or no , Strether said , isn't the people . 
It's what has made the people possible . 
Well then , his friend replied , there you are I give you my impression for what it's worth . 
Mrs. Pocock has SEEN , and that's to night how she sits there . 
If you were to have a glimpse of her face you'd understand me . 
She has made up her mind to the sound of expensive music . 
Strether took it freely in . 
Ah then I shall have news of her . 
I don't want to frighten you , but I think that likely . 
No one's of the least . 
With which , to mark how gaily he could take it , he patted his companion's knee . 
I must meet my fate alone , and I SHALL oh you'll see ! And yet , he pursued the next moment , you CAN help me too . 
You once said to me he followed this further that you held Chad should marry . 
I didn't see then so well as I know now that you meant he should marry Miss Pocock . 
Do you still consider that he should ? Because if you do he kept it up I want you immediately to change your mind . 
You can help me that way . 
Help you by thinking he should NOT marry ? Not marry at all events Mamie . 
And who then ? Ah , Strether returned , that I'm not obliged to say . 
But Madame de Vionnet I suggest when he can . 
Oh ! said little Bilham with some sharpness . 
Oh precisely ! But he needn't marry at all I'm at any rate not obliged to provide for it . 
Whereas in your case I rather feel that I AM . 
Obliged to provide for my marrying ? Yes after all I've done to you ! The young man weighed it . 
Have you done as much as that ? Well , said Strether , thus challenged , of course I must remember what you've also done to ME . 
We may perhaps call it square . 
But all the same , he went on , I wish awfully you'd marry Mamie Pocock yourself . 
Why it was only the other night , in this very place , that you were proposing to me a different union altogether . 
''Mademoiselle de Vionnet ? Well , Strether easily confessed it . 
That , I admit , was a vain image . 
She likes you , you know . 
Little Bilham stared as a delicate appetite stares at an overheaped plate . 
What do I console her for ? It just made his friend impatient . 
I don't know what you want more . 
Little Bilham after a moment found it . 
Only just to know what proves to you that I like HER . 
Oh if what I've just mentioned isn't enough to make you do it , you're a stony hearted little fiend . 
Besides Strether encouraged his fancy's flight you showed your inclination in the way you kept her waiting , kept her on purpose to see if she cared enough for you . 
His companion paid his ingenuity the deference of a pause . 
I didn't keep her waiting . 
I came at the hour . 
I wouldn't have kept her waiting for the world , the young man honourably declared . 
Better still then there you are ! And Strether , charmed , held him the faster . 
Even if you didn't do her justice , moreover , he continued , I should insist on your immediately coming round to it . 
I want awfully to have worked it . 
I want and our friend spoke now with a yearning that was really earnest at least to have done THAT . 
I haven't many , unfortunately , but you shall have them all . 
And Miss Pocock , I think , has a few . 
I want , Strether went on , to have been at least to that extent constructive even expiatory . 
I've been sacrificing so to strange gods that I feel I want to put on record , somehow , my fidelity fundamentally unchanged after all to our own . 
I feel as if my hands were embrued with the blood of monstrous alien altars of another faith altogether . 
There it is it's done . 
And then he further explained . 
It took hold of me because the idea of getting her quite out of the way for Chad helps to clear my ground . 
The young man , at this , bounced about , and it brought them face to face in admitted amusement . 
You want me to marry as a convenience to Chad ? No , Strether debated HE doesn't care whether you marry or not . 
It's as a convenience simply to my own plan FOR him . 
'Simply' ! and little Bilham's concurrence was in itself a lively comment . 
But I thought , he continued , you had exactly NO plan 'for' him . 
Well then call it my plan for myself which may be well , as you say , to have none . 
His situation , don't you see ? is reduced now to the bare facts one has to recognise . 
Mamie doesn't want him , and he doesn't want Mamie so much as that these days have made clear . 
It's a thread we can wind up and tuck in . 
But little Bilham still questioned . 
YOU can since you seem so much to want to . 
But why should I ? Poor Strether thought it over , but was obliged of course to admit that his demonstration did superficially fail . 
Seriously , there is no reason . 
It's my affair I must do it alone . 
I've only my fantastic need of making my dose stiff . 
What do you call your dose ? Why what I have to swallow . 
I want my conditions unmitigated . 
Little Bilham's eyes rested on him a moment with some intensity then suddenly , as if everything had cleared up , he gave a happy laugh . 
I'll do anything in the world for you ! Well , Strether smiled , anything in the world is all I want . 
It was somehow so the note I needed her staying at home to receive him . 
It was Chad of course , said little Bilham , who asked the next young man I like your name for me ! to call . 
So I supposed all of which , thank God , is in our innocent and natural manners . 
But do you know , Strether asked , if Chad knows ? And then as this interlocutor seemed at a loss Why where she has come out . 
Little Bilham , at this , met his face with a conscious look it was as if , more than anything yet , the allusion had penetrated . 
Do you know yourself ? Strether lightly shook his head . 
Oh , odd as it may appear to you , there ARE things I don't know . 
I only got the sense from her of something very sharp , and yet very deep down , that she was keeping all to herself . 
I had thought she possibly might with ME but I saw then that I was only half in her confidence . 
Half an hour later I was in possession of all the rest of it . 
You know what has happened . 
He looked at his young friend hard then he felt sure . 
For all you say , you're up to your eyes . 
Little Bilham after an instant pulled half round . 
I assure you she hasn't told me anything . 
The young man faced this blast after which he pulled round the rest of the way . 
I haven't in the least said she hasn't been nice to me . 
But not too proud for that . 
It's just her pride that has made her . 
Chad , little Bilham loyally went on , has really been as kind to her as possible . 
It's awkward for a man when a girl's in love with him . 
Ah but she isn't now . 
Little Bilham sat staring before him then he sprang up as if his friend's penetration , recurrent and insistent , made him really after all too nervous . 
It isn't in the least , he went on , Chad's fault . 
I mean he would have been willing . 
But she came over with ideas . 
Those she had got at home . 
They had been her motive and support in joining her brother and his wife . 
She was to SAVE our friend . 
Ah like me , poor thing ? Strether also got to his feet . 
Exactly she had a bad moment . 
It was very soon distinct to her , to pull her up , to let her down , that , alas , he was , he IS , saved . 
There's nothing left for her to do . 
Not even to love him ? She would have loved him better as she originally believed him . 
Strether wondered Of course one asks one's self what notion a little girl forms , where a young man's in question , of such a history and such a state . 
Well , this little girl saw them , no doubt , as obscure , but she saw them practically as wrong . 
The wrong for her WAS the obscure . 
Too late for the miracle . 
Yes his companion saw enough . 
Still , if the worst fault of his condition is that it may be all there for her to profit by ? Oh she doesn't want to 'profit , in that flat way . 
She doesn't want to profit by another woman's work she wants the miracle to have been her own miracle . 
THAT'S what she's too late for . 
Strether quite felt how it all fitted , yet there seemed one loose piece . 
I'm bound to say , you know , that she strikes one , on these lines , as fastidious what you call here difficile . 
Little Bilham tossed up his chin . 
Mamie is one of the real and the right . 
And what it comes to then , Strether went on , is that poor awful Chad is simply too good for her . 
Ah too good was what he was after all to be but it was she herself , and she herself only , who was to have made him so . 
It hung beautifully together , but with still a loose end . 
Wouldn't he do for her even if he should after all break With his actual influence ? Oh little Bilham had for this enquiry the sharpest of all his controls . 
How can he 'do' on any terms whatever when he's flagrantly spoiled ? Strether could only meet the question with his passive , his receptive pleasure . 
The most he could further say to himself as his young friend turned away was that the charge encountered for the moment no renewed denial . 
He knew in advance the first note she would sound , and took in as she approached all her need of sounding it . 
She played her long handle , which shifted her observation she saw in an instant all the absences that left them free . 
But Miss Gostrey at least to night has left you alone , hasn't she ? With which she again looked about as if Maria might still lurk . 
Oh yes , said Strether she's only sitting up for me at home . 
And then as this elicited from his companion her gay Oh , oh , oh ! he explained that he meant sitting up in suspense and prayer . 
We thought it on the whole better she shouldn't be present and either way of course it's a terrible worry for her . 
He abounded in the sense of his appeal to the ladies , and they might take their choice of his doing so from humility or from pride . 
Yet she inclines to believe I shall come out . 
Oh I incline to believe too you'll come out ! Miss Barrace , with her laugh , was not to be behind . 
Oh , he replied , it was really her own idea . 
I should have wished it . 
And isn't that a new thing for her ? To dread it ? No doubt no doubt . 
But her nerve has given way . 
Miss Barrace looked at him a moment . 
She has too much at stake . 
Then less gravely Mine , luckily for me , holds out . 
Luckily for me too Strether came back to that . 
My own isn't so firm , MY appetite for responsibility isn't so sharp , as that I haven't felt the very principle of this occasion to be 'the more the merrier . 
If we ARE so merry it's because Chad has understood so well . 
He has understood amazingly , said Miss Barrace . 
It's wonderful Strether anticipated for her . 
It's wonderful ! she , to meet it , intensified so that , face to face over it , they largely and recklessly laughed . 
But she presently added Oh I see the principle . 
If one didn't one would be lost . 
Mrs. Pocock's built in , or built out whichever you call it she's packed so tight she can't move . 
She's in splendid isolation Miss Barrace embroidered the theme . 
Strether followed , but scrupulous of justice . 
Yet with every one in the place successively introduced to her . 
Wonderfully but just so that it does build her out . 
She's bricked up , she's buried alive ! Strether seemed for a moment to look at it but it brought him to a sigh . 
Oh but she's not dead ! It will take more than this to kill her . 
His companion had a pause that might have been for pity . 
No , I can't pretend I think she's finished or that it's for more than to night . 
She remained pensive as if with the same compunction . 
It's only up to her chin . 
Then again for the fun of it She can breathe . 
She can breathe ! he echoed it in the same spirit . 
It's literally all I hear . 
She focussed him with her clink of chains . 
Well ! she breathed ever so kindly . 
Well , what ? She IS free from her chin up , she mused and that WILL be enough for her . 
It will be enough for me ! Strether ruefully laughed . 
Waymarsh has really , he then asked , brought her to see you ? Yes but that's the worst of it . 
I could do you no good . 
And yet I tried hard . 
And how did you try ? Why I didn't speak of you . 
Then what would have been worse ? For speaking or silent , she lightly wailed , I somehow 'compromise . 
And it has never been any one but you . 
That shows he was magnanimous that it's something not in you , but in one's self . 
She was silent a little . 
No , it's Mr. Waymarsh's . 
It's the fault of his having brought her . 
Ah then , said Strether good naturedly , why DID he bring her ? He couldn't afford not to . 
I compromise him as hard as I can . 
But for Mr. Waymarsh it isn't fatal . 
It's so far as his wonderful relation with Mrs. Pocock is concerned favourable . 
Strether saw , but as if his path was still strewn with surprises . 
It's 'from' you then that she has got him ? She was amused at his momentary muddle . 
You can fancy my fight ! She believes in her triumph . 
I think it has been part of her joy . 
Oh her joy ! Strether sceptically murmured . 
Well , she thinks she has had her own way . 
And what's to night for her but a kind of apotheosis ? Her frock's really good . 
Good enough to go to heaven in ? For after a real apotheosis , Strether went on , there's nothing BUT heaven . 
For Sarah there's only to morrow . 
And you mean that she won't find to morrow heavenly ? Well , I mean that I somehow feel to night on her behalf too good to be true . 
She has had her cake that is she's in the act now of having it , of swallowing the largest and sweetest piece . 
There won't be another left for her . 
It can only , at the best , be Chad . 
He continued to make it out as for their common entertainment . 
He may have one , as it were . 
Of course I won't pretend now , she added , not to know what it's a question of . 
Yes isn't it indeed funny ? Miss Barrace quite rose to it . 
That's the way we ARE in Paris . 
She was always pleased with a new contribution to that queerness . 
It's wonderful ! But , you know , she declared , it all depends on you . 
I don't want to turn the knife in your vitals , but that's naturally what you just now meant by our all being on top of you . 
We know you as the hero of the drama , and we're gathered to see what you'll do . 
Strether looked at her a moment with a light perhaps slightly obscured . 
I think that must be why the hero has taken refuge in this corner . 
He's scared at his heroism he shrinks from his part . 
Ah but we nevertheless believe he'll play it . 
That's why , Miss Barrace kindly went on , we take such an interest in you . 
We feel you'll come up to the scratch . 
And then as he seemed perhaps not quite to take fire Don't let him do it . 
Don't let Chad go ? Yes , keep hold of him . 
With all this and she indicated the general tribute he has done enough . 
We love him here he's charming . 
It's beautiful , said Strether , the way you all can simplify when you will . 
But she gave it to him back . 
It's nothing to the way you will when you must . 
He winced at it as at the very voice of prophecy , and it kept him a moment quiet . 
He detained her , however , on her appearing about to leave him alone in the rather cold clearance their talk had made . 
There positively isn't a sign of a hero to night the hero's dodging and shirking , the hero's ashamed . 
Therefore , you know , I think , what you must all REALLY be occupied with is the heroine . 
Miss Barrace took a minute . 
The heroine ? The heroine . 
I've treated her , said Strether , not a bit like a hero . 
Oh , he sighed , I don't do it well ! She eased him off . 
You do it as you can . 
And then after another hesitation I think she's satisfied . 
I haven't been near her . 
I haven't looked at her . 
Ah then you've lost a good deal ! He showed he knew it . 
She's more wonderful than ever ? Than ever . 
Madame de Vionnet with Jim ? Madame de Vionnet with 'Jim . 
And what's she doing with him ? Ah you must ask HIM ! Strether's face lighted again at the prospect . 
It WILL be amusing to do so . 
Yet he continued to wonder . 
But she must have some idea . 
Of course she has she has twenty ideas . 
She has in the first place , said Miss Barrace , swinging a little her tortoise shell , that of doing her part . 
Her part is to help YOU . 
It came out as nothing had come yet links were missing and connexions unnamed , but it was suddenly as if they were at the heart of their subject . 
Ah she has courage ! Miss Barrace quite agreed and it was as if for a moment they saw the quantity in each other's face . 
But indeed the whole thing was present . 
How much she must care ! Ah there it is . 
Why of course it's the whole point . 
Voila ! Miss Barrace smiled . 
It's why one came out , Strether went on . 
And it's why one has stayed so long . 
And it's also he abounded why one's going home . 
It's why , it's why It's why everything ! she concurred . 
It's why she might be to night for all she looks and shows , and for all your friend 'Jim' does about twenty years old . 
That's another of her ideas to be for him , and to be quite easily and charmingly , as young as a little girl . 
Strether assisted at his distance . 
'For him' ? For Chad ? For Chad , in a manner , naturally , always . 
But in particular to night for Mr. Pocock . 
And then as her friend still stared Yes , it IS of a bravery But that's what she has her high sense of duty . 
It was more than sufficiently before them . 
When Mr. Newsome has his hands so embarrassed with his sister It's quite the least Strether filled it out that she should take his sister's husband ? Certainly quite the least . 
So she has taken him . 
It was all Miss Barrace had meant . 
That of course essentially went with it . 
But it brought them back . 
How indeed then she must cared In answer to which Strether's entertainer dropped a comprehensive Ah ! expressive perhaps of some impatience for the time he took to get used to it . 
She herself had got used to it long before . 
II When one morning within the week he perceived the whole thing to be really at last upon him Strether's immediate feeling was all relief . 
He now sat there , for the most part , to sigh softly , while he vaguely tilted his carafe , over the vision of how much better Waymarsh was occupied . 
That was really his success by the common measure to have led this companion so on and on . 
They wouldn't be the same terms of course but they might have the advantage that he himself probably should be able to make none at all . 
He was dressed in the garments of summer and save that his white waistcoat was redundant and bulging these things favoured , they determined , his expression . 
He wore a straw hat such as his friend hadn't yet seen in Paris , and he showed a buttonhole freshly adorned with a magnificent rose . 
He wondered , this pilgrim , if he had originally looked to Waymarsh so brave and well , so remarkably launched , as it was at present the latter's privilege to appear . 
And it was others who looked abstemious and he who looked greedy it was he somehow who finally paid , and it was others who mainly partook . 
Yes , he should go to the scaffold yet for he wouldn't know quite whom . 
He almost , for that matter , felt on the scaffold now and really quite enjoying it . 
It worked out as BECAUSE he was anxious there it worked out as for this reason that Waymarsh was so blooming . 
It was HIS trip for health , for a change , that proved the success which was just what Strether , planning and exerting himself , had desired it should be . 
That truth already sat full blown on his companion's lips benevolence breathed from them as with the warmth of active exercise , and also a little as with the bustle of haste . 
She wants to see you she has something to say or considers , I believe , that you may have so that I asked her myself why she shouldn't come right round . 
She hasn't BEEN round yet to see our place and I took upon myself to say that I was sure you'd be glad to have her . 
The thing's therefore , you see , to keep right here till she comes . 
The announcement was sociably , even though , after Waymarsh's wont , somewhat solemnly made but Strether quickly felt other things in it than these light features . 
He had finished his breakfast he pushed it away and was on his feet . 
There were plenty of elements of surprise , but only one of doubt . 
The thing's for YOU to keep here too ? Waymarsh had been slightly ambiguous . 
He wasn't ambiguous , however , after this enquiry and Strether's understanding had probably never before opened so wide and effective a mouth as it was to open during the next five minutes . 
He had thought , and had let her know it , that Strether possibly would think she might have been round before . 
At any rate , as turned out , she had been wanting herself , quite a while , to come . 
I told her , said Waymarsh , that it would have been a bright idea if she had only carried it out before . 
Strether pronounced it so bright as to be almost dazzling . 
But why HASn't she carried it out before ? She has seen me every day she had only to name her hour . 
I've been waiting and waiting . 
Well , I told her you had . 
And she has been waiting too . 
He lacked only time for full persuasion , and Strether was to see in a moment why . 
Meantime , however , our friend perceived , he was announcing a step of some magnanimity on Mrs. Pocock's part , so that he could deprecate a sharp question . 
It was his own high purpose in fact to have smoothed sharp questions to rest . 
He looked his old comrade very straight in the eyes , and he had never conveyed to him in so mute a manner so much kind confidence and so much good advice . 
Everything that was between them was again in his face , but matured and shelved and finally disposed of . 
At any rate , he added , she's coming now . 
Considering how many pieces had to fit themselves , it all fell , in Strether's brain , into a close rapid order . 
He saw on the spot what had happened , and what probably would yet and it was all funny enough . 
It was perhaps just this freedom of appreciation that wound him up to his flare of high spirits . 
He was not that was the beauty of it to be asked to deflect too much from his dignity . 
No wonder the old boy bloomed in this bland air of his own distillation . 
Strether felt for a moment as if Sarah were actually walking up and down outside . 
He had never so much known what any one meant as , in the light of this demonstration , he knew what Mrs. Newsome did . 
It had reached Waymarsh from Sarah , but it had reached Sarah from her mother , and there was no break in the chain by which it reached HIM . 
'Unexpected' ? He had a brief hesitation then , however , he was firm . 
Leaving ? That IS sudden . 
Waymarsh showed a different opinion . 
Less so than it may seem . 
The purpose of Mrs. Pocock's visit is to explain to you in fact that it's NOT . 
He wondered it was amusing if he felt as the impudent feel . 
I shall take great pleasure , I assure you , in any explanation . 
I shall be delighted to receive Sarah . 
The sombre glow just darkened in his comrade's eyes but he was struck with the way it died out again . 
It was too mixed with another consciousness it was too smothered , as might be said , in flowers . 
I'm not leaving for the United States direct . 
Mr. and Mrs. Pocock and Miss Mamie are thinking of a little trip before their own return , and we've been talking for some days past of our joining forces . 
We've settled it that we do join and that we sail together the end of next month . 
But we start to morrow for Switzerland . 
Mrs. Pocock wants some scenery . 
She hasn't had much yet . 
He was brave in his way too , keeping nothing back , confessing all there was , and only leaving Strether to make certain connexions . 
Is what Mrs. Newsome had cabled her daughter an injunction to break off short ? The grand manner indeed at this just raised its head a little . 
I know nothing about Mrs. Newsome's cables . 
Their eyes met on it with some intensity during the few seconds of which something happened quite out of proportion to the time . 
It happened that Strether , looking thus at his friend , didn't take his answer for truth and that something more again occurred in consequence of THAT . 
Vivid not less was his memory of what , during his long observation of her , some of her attainments of that high pitch had cost her . 
Distinctly she was at the highest now , and Waymarsh , who imagined himself an independent performer , was really , forcing his fine old natural voice , an overstrained accompanist . 
It was as manful as possible , but it was still the false note as it had to be to convey so sorry a statement . 
He knew everything , Strether more and more felt , that he thus disclaimed , and his little punishment was just in this doom to a second fib . 
What falser position given the man could the most vindictive mind impose ? He ended by squeezing through a passage in which three months before he would certainly have stuck fast . 
Mrs Pocock will probably be ready herself to answer any enquiry you may put to her . 
But , he continued , BUT ! He faltered on it . 
But what ? Don't put her too many ? Waymarsh looked large , but the harm was done he couldn't , do what he would , help looking rosy . 
Don't do anything you'll be sorry for . 
It was an attenuation , Strether guessed , of something else that had been on his lips it was a sudden drop to directness , and was thereby the voice of sincerity . 
He had fallen to the supplicating note , and that immediately , for our friend , made a difference and reinstated him . 
Only the amount of response Waymarsh had then taken for granted was doubled , decupled now . 
This came out when he presently said Of course I needn't assure you I hope you'll come with us . 
Then it was that his implications and expectations loomed up for Strether as almost pathetically gross . 
I shall see you again of course before you go but I'm meanwhile much obliged to you for arranging so conveniently for what you've told me . 
Leave me with her without fear , he laughed I assure you I shan't hurt her . 
I don't think either she'll hurt ME I'm in a situation in which damage was some time ago discounted . 
We weren't , it seemed , all right as we were before and we've got over the ground , all things considered , quickly . 
I hope you'll have a lovely time in the Alps . 
Waymarsh fairly looked up at him as from the foot of them . 
I don't know as I OUGHT really to go . 
LET yourself , on the contrary , go in all agreeable directions . 
These are precious hours at our age they mayn't recur . 
Don't have it to say to yourself at Milrose , next winter , that you hadn't courage for them . 
And then as his comrade queerly stared Live up to Mrs. Pocock . 
Live up to her ? You're a great help to her . 
Waymarsh looked at it as at one of the uncomfortable things that were certainly true and that it was yet ironical to say . 
It's more then than you are . 
That's exactly your own chance and advantage . 
Besides , said Strether , I do in my way contribute . 
I know what I'm about . 
Waymarsh had kept on his great panama , and , as he now stood nearer the door , his last look beneath the shade of it had turned again to darkness and warning . 
So do I ! See here , Strether . 
I know what you're going to say . 
'Quit this' ? Quit this ! But it lacked its old intensity nothing of it remained it went out of the room with him . 
It was as if he alluded of course to the grand manner the dear man had sacrificed it to some other advantage which would be of course only for himself to measure . 
It might be simply that he was physically so much more sound than on his first coming out this was all prosaic , comparatively cheerful and vulgar . 
And fortunately , if one came to that , his improvement in health was really itself grander than any manner it could be conceived as having cost him . 
The doubt had been as to whether he mightn't take her as not having smoothed it and the admonition had possibly come from Waymarsh's more detached spirit . 
Waymarsh had at any rate , certainly , thrown his weight into the scale he had pointed to the importance of depriving their friend of a grievance . 
She had done justice to the plea , and it was to set herself right with a high ideal that she actually sat there in her state . 
Doubt ceased to be possible from the moment he had taken in that she had arrived with no proposal whatever that her concern was simply to show what she had come to receive . 
She had come to receive his submission , and Waymarsh was to have made it plain to him that she would expect nothing less . 
He saw fifty things , her host , at this convenient stage but one of those he most saw was that their anxious friend hadn't quite had the hand required of him . 
The difficulty was that if he was mild he wasn't , for her purpose , conscious . 
If she wished him conscious as everything about her cried aloud that she did she must accordingly be at costs to make him so . 
Conscious he was , for himself but only of too many things so she must choose the one she required . 
Practically , however , it at last got itself named , and when once that had happened they were quite at the centre of their situation . 
It was , in their contracted quarters , as much there between them as if it had been something suddenly spilled with a crash and a splash on the floor . 
The form of his submission was to be an engagement to acquit himself within the twenty four hours . 
She wasn't at all funny at last she was really fine and he felt easily where she was strong strong for herself . 
It hadn't yet so come home to him that she was nobly and appointedly officious . 
She would be held up she would be strengthened he needn't in the least be anxious for her . 
It wasn't perhaps that he felt he was dealing with her straight , but it was certainly as if she had been dealing straight with HIM . 
Something has clearly passed between you and Chad , he presently said , that I think I ought to know something more about . 
Chad I mean's all right in having said to you well anything he may have said . 
I'll TAKE it all what he does put on me . 
Only I must see him before I see you again . 
She hesitated , but she brought it out . 
Is it absolutely necessary you should see me again ? Certainly , if I'm to give you any definite word about anything . 
Is it your idea then , she returned , that I shall keep on meeting you only to be exposed to fresh humiliation ? He fixed her a longer time . 
You know perfectly what your own were , and you can judge for yourself of what it can do for you to have made what you have of them . 
You can perfectly see , at any rate , I'll go so far as to say , that if I wish not to expose myself I must wish still less to expose HER . 
He now indeed felt the high importance of his having it . 
It was rather much to deal with at once not only the question itself , but the sore abysses it revealed . 
Of course they're totally different kinds of duty . 
The missile made him to that extent catch his breath which however he presently recovered . 
I don't think there's anything I've done in any such calculated way as you describe . 
Everything has come as a sort of indistinguishable part of everything else . 
Your coming out belonged closely to my having come before you , and my having come was a result of our general state of mind . 
Everything , at the stage they had reached , directly helped her , because everything betrayed in him such a basis of intention . 
He saw the odd way things came out ! that he would have been held less monstrous had he only been a little wilder . 
What exposed him was just his poor old trick of quiet inwardness , what exposed him was his THINKING such offence . 
He hadn't in the least however the desire to irritate that Sarah imputed to him , and he could only at last temporise , for the moment , with her indignant view . 
She was altogether more inflamed than he had expected , and he would probably understand this better when he should learn what had occurred for her with Chad . 
Till then her view of his particular blackness , her clear surprise at his not clutching the pole she held out , must pass as extravagant . 
I leave you to flatter yourself , she returned , that what you speak of is what YOU'VE beautifully done . 
When a thing has been already described in such a lovely way ! But she caught herself up , and her comment on his description rang out sufficiently loud . 
It was so much so much and she treated it , poor lady , as so little . 
He grew conscious , as he was now apt to do , of a strange smile , and the next moment he found himself talking like Miss Barrace . 
She has struck me from the first as wonderful . 
I've been thinking too moreover that , after all , she would probably have represented even for yourself something rather new and rather good . 
He was to have given Mrs. Pocock with this , however , but her best opportunity for a sound of derision . 
He had at all events not served his cause , for she sprang at its exposed side . 
She has confided to my judgement and my tenderness the expression of her personal sense of everything , and the assertion of her personal dignity . 
They were the very words of the lady of Woollett he would have known them in a thousand her parting charge to her child . 
Mrs. Pocock accordingly spoke to this extent by book , and the fact immensely moved him . 
If she does really feel as you say it's of course very very dreadful . 
I've given sufficient proof , one would have thought , he added , of my deep admiration for Mrs. Newsome . 
And pray what proof would one have thought you'd CALL sufficient ? That of thinking this person here so far superior to her ? He wondered again he waited . 
Yet he knew it to be perhaps the most positive declaration he had ever made in his life , and his visitor's reception of it virtually gave it that importance . 
That's exactly what I'm delighted to do . 
God knows WE don't want her ! You take good care not to meet , she observed in a still higher key , my question about their life . 
I think tremendously well of her , at the same time that I seem to feel her 'life' to be really none of my business . 
Still , he could always speak for the woman he had so definitely promised to save . 
I find in her more merits than you would probably have patience with my counting over . 
I don't , you must allow me to say , see how you can with any pretence to candour get rid of the side nearest you . 
Near me THAT sort of thing ? And Sarah gave a jerk back of her head that well might have nullified any active proximity . 
It kept her friend himself at his distance , and he respected for a moment the interval . 
Then with a last persuasive effort he bridged it . 
You don't , on your honour , appreciate Chad's fortunate development ? Fortunate ? she echoed again . 
And indeed she was prepared . 
It rang out so loud as to produce for the time the hush of everything else . 
Strether quite , as an effect of it , breathed less bravely he could acknowledge it , but simply enough . 
Oh if you think THAT ! Then all's at an end ? So much the better . 
She made for it with decision , and the manner of her break , the sharp shaft of her rejoinder , had an intensity by which Strether was at first kept in arrest . 
She had let fly at him as from a stretched cord , and it took him a minute to recover from the sense of being pierced . 
It was not the penetration of surprise it was that , much more , of certainty his case being put for him as he had as yet only put it to himself . 
He stopped halfway he stood there in the court only seeing her go and noting that she gave him no other look . 
The way he had put it to himself was that all quite MIGHT be at an end . 
Each of her movements , in this resolute rupture , reaffirmed , re enforced that idea . 
Sarah passed out of sight in the sunny street while , planted there in the centre of the comparatively grey court , he continued merely to look before him . 
It probably WAS all at an end . 
Book Eleventh Note In the New York Edition the following two chapters were placed in the reverse of the order appearing below . 
Since , most scholars have agreed , because of the internal evidence of the two chapters , that an editorial error caused them to be printed in reverse order . 
This Etext , like other editions of the past four decades , corrects the apparent error . 
Chad hadn't come in and had left no intimation he had affairs , apparently , at this juncture as it occurred to Strether he so well might have that kept him long abroad . 
Our friend asked once for him at the hotel in the Rue de Rivoli , but the only contribution offered there was the fact that every one was out . 
Chad's servant had by this time answered for his reappearance he HAD , the visitor learned , come quickly in to dress for dinner and vanish again . 
That voice , he had to note , failed audibly to sound which he took as the proof of all the change in himself . 
He had heard , of old , only what he COULD then hear what he could do now was to think of three months ago as a point in the far past . 
All voices had grown thicker and meant more things they crowded on him as he moved about it was the way they sounded together that wouldn't let him be still . 
He felt , strangely , as sad as if he had come for some wrong , and yet as excited as if he had come for some freedom . 
This image was before him when he at last became aware that Chad was behind . 
He had been pursuing Chad from an early hour and had overtaken him only now but now the delay was repaired by their being so exceptionally confronted . 
It was in truth essentially by bringing down his personal life to a function all subsidiary to the young man's own that he held together . 
Their talk had accordingly not lasted three minutes without Strether's feeling basis enough for the excitement in which he had waited . 
This overflow fairly deepened , wastefully abounded , as he observed the smallness of anything corresponding to it on the part of his friend . 
It was quite for Strether himself in short to feel a personal analogy with the laundress bringing home the triumphs of the mangle . 
When he had reported on Sarah's visit , which he did very fully , Chad answered his question with perfect candour . 
I positively referred her to you told her she must absolutely see you . 
This was last night , and it all took place in ten minutes . 
It was our first free talk really the first time she had tackled me . 
She knew I also knew what her line had been with yourself knew moreover how little you had been doing to make anything difficult for her . 
So I spoke for you frankly assured her you were all at her service . 
I assured her I was too , the young man continued and I pointed out how she could perfectly , at any time , have got at me . 
Her difficulty has been simply her not finding the moment she fancied . 
Her difficulty , Strether returned , has been simply that she finds she's afraid of you . 
I think she's at bottom as pleased to HAVE you put it on me as you yourself can possibly be to put it . 
Made her all the more effectually that she could see you didn't set about it on purpose I mean set about affecting her as with fear . 
Chad cast a pleasant backward glance over his possibilities of motive . 
I've only wanted to be kind and friendly , to be decent and attentive and I still only want to be . 
Strether smiled at his comfortable clearness . 
Well , there can certainly be no way for it better than by my taking the onus . 
It reduces your personal friction and your personal offence to almost nothing . 
The onus isn't REALLY yours after our agreeing so to wait together and judge together . 
That was all my answer to Sally , Chad pursued that we have been , that we are , just judging together . 
I'm not afraid of the burden , Strether explained I haven't come in the least that you should take it off me . 
I don't ask more than that I'm quite ready to take it as it has come . 
Chad turned up his face to the sky with a slow puff of his smoke . 
I've left you wholly alone haven't , I think I may say , since the first hour or two when I merely preached patience so much as breathed on you . 
Oh you've been awfully good ! We've both been good then we've played the game . 
We've given them the most liberal conditions . 
He might in quiet sport have been reading their horoscope . 
Strether wondered meanwhile what had been open to them , and he finally let him have it . 
Strether assented to this proposition with full lucidity , his companion's plural pronoun , which stood all for Mrs. Newsome and her daughter , having no ambiguity for him . 
There was nothing , apparently , to stand for Mamie and Jim and this added to our friend's sense of Chad's knowing what he thought . 
But they've made up their minds to the opposite that you CAN'T go on as you are . 
No , Chad continued in the same way they won't have it for a minute . 
Strether on his side also reflectively smoked . 
It was as if their high place really represented some moral elevation from which they could look down on their recent past . 
There never was the smallest chance , do you know , that they WOULD have it for a moment . 
Of course not no real chance . 
But if they were willing to think there was ! They weren't willing . 
Strether had worked it all out . 
It wasn't for you they came out , but for me . 
It wasn't to see for themselves what you're doing , but what I'm doing . 
When Sarah sailed it was me , in other words , they were after . 
Chad took it in both with intelligence and with indulgence . 
Chad was to treat it , at any rate , so far as they were again together , as having done so . 
I was 'in' when you found me . 
Ah but it was you , the young man laughed , who found ME . 
I only found you out . 
It was you who found me in . 
It was all in the day's work for them , at all events , that they should come . 
And they've greatly enjoyed it , Strether declared . 
Well , I've tried to make them , said Chad . 
His companion did himself presently the same justice . 
So have I. I tried even this very morning while Mrs. Pocock was with me . 
She enjoys for instance , almost as much as anything else , not being , as I've said , afraid of me and I think I gave her help in that . 
Chad took a deeper interest . 
Was she very very nasty ? Strether debated . 
Well , she was the most important thing she was definite . 
She was at last crystalline . 
And I felt no remorse . 
I saw that they must have come . 
Oh I wanted to see them for myself so that if it were only for THAT ! Chad's own remorse was as small . 
This appeared almost all Strether wanted . 
I want to see her again . 
Do you mean a Mother herself ? Oh your mother that will depend . 
It was as if Mrs. Newsome had somehow been placed by the words very far off . 
Chad however endeavoured in spite of this to reach the place . 
What do you mean it will depend on ? Strether , for all answer , gave him a longish look . 
I was speaking of Sarah . 
I must positively though she quite cast me off see HER again . 
I can't part with her that way . 
Then she was awfully unpleasant ? Again Strether exhaled . 
She was what she had to be . 
I mean that from the moment they're not delighted they can only be well what I admit she was . 
We gave them , he went on , their chance to be delighted , and they've walked up to it , and looked all round it , and not taken it . 
You can bring a horse to water ! Chad suggested . 
And the tune to which this morning Sarah wasn't delighted the tune to which , to adopt your metaphor , she refused to drink leaves us on that side nothing more to hope . 
Chad had a pause , and then as if consolingly It was never of course really the least on the cards that they would be 'delighted . 
Well , I don't know , after all , Strether mused . 
I've had to come as far round . 
However he shook it off it's doubtless MY performance that's absurd . 
There are certainly moments , said Chad , when you seem to me too good to be true . 
Yet if you are true , he added , that seems to be all that need concern me . 
I'm true , but I'm incredible . 
I'm fantastic and ridiculous I don't explain myself even TO myself . 
How can they then , Strether asked , understand me ? So I don't quarrel with them . 
They quarrel , said Chad rather comfortably , with US . 
Strether noted once more the comfort , but his young friend had already gone on . 
I should feel greatly ashamed , all the same , if I didn't put it before you again that you ought to think , after all , tremendously well . 
I mean before giving up beyond recall With which insistence , as from a certain delicacy , dropped . 
Ah but Strether wanted it . 
Say it all , say it all . 
Well , at your age , and with what when all's said and done Mother might do for you and be for you . 
Chad had said it all , from his natural scruple , only to that extent so that Strether after an instant himself took a hand . 
My absence of an assured future . 
The little I have to show toward the power to take care of myself . 
The way , the wonderful way , she would certainly take care of me . 
Her fortune , her kindness , and the constant miracle of her having been disposed to go even so far . 
Of course , of course he summed it up . 
There are those sharp facts . 
Chad had meanwhile thought of another still . 
And don't you really care ? His friend slowly turned round to him . 
Will you go ? I'll go if you'll say you now consider I should . 
You know , he went on , I was ready six weeks ago . 
Ah , said Strether , that was when you didn't know I wasn't ! You're ready at present because you do know it . 
That may be , Chad returned but all the same I'm sincere . 
What it literally comes to for you , if you'll pardon my putting it so , is that you give up money . 
Possibly a good deal of money . 
True enough but I've got a certain quantity , Chad returned after a moment . 
Whereas you , my dear man , you I can't be at all said Strether took him up to have a 'quantity' certain or uncertain ? Very true . 
Still , I shan't starve . 
This , however , he presumably thought best not to do , for at the end of another minute they had moved in quite a different direction . 
Strether had broken in by returning to the subject of Chad's passage with Sarah and enquiring if they had arrived , in the event , at anything in the nature of a scene . 
To this Chad replied that they had on the contrary kept tremendously polite adding moreover that Sally was after all not the woman to have made the mistake of not being . 
Her hands are a good deal tied , you see . 
I got so , from the first , he sagaciously observed , the start of her . 
And she began to take it before she knew it . 
And she began to like it , said Strether , as soon as she began to take it ! Yes , she has liked it also more than she expected . 
After which Chad observed But she doesn't like ME . 
In fact she hates me . 
Then why does she want you at home ? Because when you hate you want to triumph , and if she should get me neatly stuck there she WOULD triumph . 
Strether followed afresh , but looking as he went . 
Ah , said Chad , she can bear ME could bear me at least at home . 
It's my being there that would be her triumph . 
She hates me in Paris . 
The limitations of their distinctness didn't , however , prevent its fairly lingering in the air that it was this lady Mrs. Pocock hated . 
It added one more touch moreover to their established recognition of the rare intimacy of Chad's association with her . 
He had never yet more twitched away the last light veil from this phenomenon than in presenting himself as confounded and submerged in the feeling she had created at Woollett . 
And I'll tell you who hates me too , he immediately went on . 
Strether knew as immediately whom he meant , but with as prompt a protest . 
Ah no ! Mamie doesn't hate well , he caught himself in time anybody at all . 
That's just why I mind it . 
She certainly doesn't like me . 
How much do you mind it ? What would you do for her ? Well , I'd like her if she'd like me . 
Really , really , Chad declared . 
It gave his companion a moment's pause . 
You asked me just now if I don't , as you said , 'care' about a certain person . 
You rather tempt me therefore to put the question in my turn . 
Don't YOU care about a certain other person ? Chad looked at him hard in the lamplight of the window . 
The difference is that I don't want to . 
'Don't want' to ? I try not to that is I HAVE tried . 
You can't be surprised , the young man easily went on , when you yourself set me on it . 
I was indeed , he added , already on it a little but you set me harder . 
It was six weeks ago that I thought I had come out . 
Strether took it well in . 
But you haven't come out ! I don't know it's what I WANT to know , said Chad . 
And if I could have sufficiently wanted by myself to go back , I think I might have found out . 
But all you were able to achieve was to want to want to ! And even then , he pursued , only till our friends there came . 
Oh I don't ask you to abuse or describe or in any way pronounce on your relatives I simply put it to you once more whether you're NOW ready . 
Is what you've seen that you can't resist ? Chad gave him a strange smile the nearest approach he had ever shown to a troubled one . 
Oh an immense deal certainly Chad did it full justice . 
And you yourself are adding to it . 
It was without heeding this either that his visitor continued . 
And our friends there won't have it . 
No , they simply won't . 
Then as you haven't seen yours you naturally haven't seen mine . 
After which he proceeded , with a certain abruptness , to a sharp interrogation . 
NOW do you say she doesn't hate me ? Strether hesitated . 
We called it Sarah , but it comes to the same thing . 
Ah , Strether objected , not to the same thing as her hating YOU . 
On which though as if for an instant it had hung fire Chad remarkably replied Well , if they hate my good friend , THAT comes to the same thing . 
It had a note of inevitable truth that made Strether take it as enough , feel he wanted nothing more . 
And meanwhile he had gone on . 
Their hating you too moreover that also comes to a good deal . 
Ah , said Strether , your mother doesn't . 
Chad , however , loyally stuck to it loyally , that is , to Strether . 
She will if you don't look out . 
Well , I do look out . 
I am , after all , looking out . 
That's just why , our friend explained , I want to see her again . 
It drew from Chad again the same question . 
To see Mother ? To see for the present Sarah . 
Ah then there you are ! And what I don't for the life of me make out , Chad pursued with resigned perplexity , is what you GAIN by it . 
Oh it would have taken his companion too long to say ! That's because you have , I verily believe , no imagination . 
But no imagination , don't you see ? at all . 
It was an idea in which Chad showed interest . 
It continued inveterately to occur , for that matter , that whenever he had taken one of his greater turns he came back to where she so faithfully awaited him . 
He had seen Chad Newsome late the night before , and he had had that morning , as a sequel to this conversation , a second interview with Sarah . 
But they're all off , he said , at last . 
It puzzled her a moment . 
All ? Mr. Newsome with them ? Ah not yet ! Sarah and Jim and Mamie . 
But Waymarsh with them for Sarah . 
It's too beautiful , Strether continued I find I don't get over that it's always a fresh joy . 
But it's a fresh joy too , he added , that well , what do you think ? Little Bilham also goes . 
But he of course goes for Mamie . 
'For' her ? Do you mean they're already engaged ? Well , said Strether , say then for ME . 
He'll do anything for me just as I will , for that matter anything I can for him . 
SHE'LL do anything for me . 
Miss Gostrey gave a comprehensive sigh . 
The way you reduce people to subjection ! It's certainly , on one side , wonderful . 
But it's quite equalled , on another , by the way I don't . 
I haven't reduced Sarah , since yesterday though I've succeeded in seeing her again , as I'll presently tell you . 
The others however are really all right . 
Mamie , by that blessed law of ours , absolutely must have a young man . 
She saw as usual what he meant . 
And Mr. Jim ? who goes for him ? Oh , Strether had to admit , I couldn't manage THAT . 
He's thrown , as usual , on the world the world which , after all , by his account for he has prodigious adventures seems very good to him . 
He fortunately 'over here , as he says finds the world everywhere and his most prodigious adventure of all , he went on , has been of course of the last few days . 
Miss Gostrey , already knowing , instantly made the connexion . 
He has seen Marie de Vionnet again ? He went , all by himself , the day after Chad's party didn't I tell you ? to tea with her . 
By her invitation all alone . 
Quite like yourself ! Maria smiled . 
To Switzerland with the party ? For Jim and for symmetry . 
If it had been workable moreover for a fortnight she'd have gone . 
She's ready he followed up his renewed vision of her for anything . 
Miss Gostrey went with him a minute . 
She's too perfect ! She WILL , I think , he pursued , go to night to the station . 
To see him off ? With Chad marvellously as part of their general attention . 
And she does it it kept before him with a light , light grace , a free , free gaiety , that may well softly bewilder Mr. Pocock . 
It kept her so before him that his companion had after an instant a friendly comment . 
As in short it has softly bewildered a saner man . 
Are you really in love with her ? Maria threw off . 
It's of no importance I should know , he replied . 
It matters so little has nothing to do , practically , with either of us . 
All the same Maria continued to smile they go , the five , as I understand you , and you and Madame de Vionnet stay . 
To which Strether added And you . 
Ah 'me' ! she gave a small impatient wail again , in which something of the unreconciled seemed suddenly to break out . 
I don't stay , it somehow seems to me , much to my advantage . 
In the presence of all you cause to pass before me I've a tremendous sense of privation . 
But your privation , your keeping out of everything , has been hasn't it ? by your own choice . 
Oh yes it has been necessary that is it has been better for you . 
What I mean is only that I seem to have ceased to serve you . 
How can you tell that ? he asked . 
You don't know how you serve me . 
When you cease Well ? she said as he dropped . 
Well , I'll LET you know . 
Then you positively like me to stay ? Don't I treat you as if I did ? You're certainly very kind to me . 
But that , said Maria , is for myself . 
It's getting late , as you see , and Paris turning rather hot and dusty . 
People are scattering , and some of them , in other places want me . 
She took it as if the words were all she had wished as if they brought her , gave her something that was the compensation of her case . 
Thank you , she simply answered . 
And then as he looked at her a little harder , Thank you very much , she repeated . 
It had broken as with a slight arrest into the current of their talk , and it held him a moment longer . 
I never supposed you believed it was . 
Yet , she continued , if you didn't guess it that was just what helped you . 
He looked away from her on this he indulged , so far as space permitted , in one of his slow absences . 
I've often thought of it , but never to feel that I could guess it . 
And you see the consideration with which I've treated you in never asking till now . 
Now then why DO you ask ? To show you how I miss you when you're not here , and what it does for me . 
It doesn't seem to have done , she laughed , all it might ! However , she added , if you've really never guessed the truth I'll tell it you . 
I've never guessed it , Strether declared . 
Well then I dashed off , as you say , so as not to have the confusion of being there if Marie de Vionnet should tell you anything to my detriment . 
He looked as if he considerably doubted . 
You even then would have had to face it on your return . 
Oh if I had found reason to believe it something very bad I'd have left you altogether . 
So then , he continued , it was only on guessing she had been on the whole merciful that you ventured back ? Maria kept it together . 
Whatever her temptation she didn't separate us . 
That's one of my reasons , she went on for admiring her so . 
Let it pass then , said Strether , for one of mine as well . 
But what would have been her temptation ? What are ever the temptations of women ? He thought but hadn't , naturally , to think too long . 
Men ? She would have had you , with it , more for herself . 
But she saw she could have you without it . 
Oh 'have' me ! Strether a trifle ambiguously sighed . 
YOU , he handsomely declared , would have had me at any rate WITH it . 
Oh 'have' you ! she echoed it as he had done . 
I do have you , however , she less ironically said , from the moment you express a wish . 
He stopped before her , full of the disposition . 
Which indeed begot in her , with a certain inconsequence , a return of her small wail . 
Then he had explained to her how he had succeeded , late the night before , in keeping his promise of seeing Chad . 
I told her I'd take it all . 
You'd 'take' it ? Why if he doesn't go . 
And who takes it if he does ? she enquired with a certain grimness of gaiety . 
Well , said Strether , I think I take , in any event , everything . 
By which I suppose you mean , his companion brought out after a moment , that you definitely understand you now lose everything . 
He stood before her again . 
It does come perhaps to the same thing . 
But Chad , now that he has seen , doesn't really want it . 
She could believe that , but she made , as always , for clearness . 
Still , what , after all , HAS he seen ? What they want of him . 
It contrasts so unfavourably with what Madame de Vionnet wants ? It contrasts just so all round , and tremendously . 
Therefore , perhaps , most of all with what YOU want ? Oh , said Strether , what I want is a thing I've ceased to measure or even to understand . 
But his friend none the less went on . 
I dare say it has been , after all , the only way she could have imagined . 
And does that make you want her any more ? I've tremendously disappointed her , Strether thought it worth while to mention . 
That's rudimentary that was plain to us long ago . 
Ah then , he laughed , I should have to count with yours ! But this barely struck her now . 
What , in that case , should you call counting ? You haven't come out where you are , I think , to please ME . 
Oh , he insisted , that too , you know , has been part of it . 
I can't separate it's all one and that's perhaps why , as I say , I don't understand . 
But he was ready to declare again that this didn't in the least matter all the more that , as he affirmed , he HADn't really as yet come out . 
She gives me after all , on its coming to the pinch , a last mercy , another chance . 
They don't sail , you see , for five or six weeks more , and they haven't she admits that expected Chad would take part in their tour . 
It's still open to him to join them , at the last , at Liverpool . 
But if you say nothing ! Well , he as usual walked about on it . 
I did say something this morning . 
I gave her my answer the word I had promised her after hearing from himself what HE had promised . 
What she demanded of me yesterday , you'll remember , was the engagement then and there to make him take up this vow . 
Ah that's weak ! Precisely ! She had spoken with impatience , but , so far as that at least , he knew where he was . 
If I AM weak I want to find it out . 
If I don't find it out I shall have the comfort , the little glory , of thinking I'm strong . 
It's all the comfort , I judge , she returned , that you WILL have ! At any rate , he said , it will have been a month more . 
Paris may grow , from day to day , hot and dusty , as you say but there are other things that are hotter and dustier . 
I'm not afraid to stay on the summer here must be amusing in a wild if it isn't a tame way of its own the place at no time more picturesque . 
I think I shall like it . 
And then , he benevolently smiled for her , there will be always you . 
Oh , she objected , it won't be as a part of the picturesqueness that I shall stay , for I shall be the plainest thing about you . 
You may , you see , at any rate , she pursued , have nobody else . 
Madame de Vionnet may very well be going off , mayn't she ? and Mr. Newsome by the same stroke unless indeed you've had an assurance from them to the contrary . 
So that if your idea's to stay for them it was her duty to suggest it you may be left in the lurch . 
Of course if they do stay she kept it up they would be part of the picturesqueness . 
Or else indeed you might join them somewhere . 
Strether seemed to face it as if it were a happy thought but the next moment he spoke more critically . 
Do you mean that they'll probably go off together ? She just considered . 
Of course , Strether conceded , my attitude toward them is extraordinary . 
Just so so that one may ask one's self what style of proceeding on their own part can altogether match it . 
The attitude of their own that won't pale in its light they've doubtless still to work out . 
The really handsome thing perhaps , she presently threw off , WOULD be for them to withdraw into more secluded conditions , offering at the same time to share them with you . 
He looked at her , on this , as if some generous irritation all in his interest had suddenly again flickered in her and what she next said indeed half explained it . 
And she kept it up still more . 
The handsomest thing of ALL , when one makes it out , would , I dare say , be that Mr. Chad should for a while go off by himself . 
It's a pity , from that point of view , she wound up , that he doesn't pay his mother a visit . 
It would at least occupy your interval . 
The thought in fact held her a moment . 
Why doesn't he pay his mother a visit ? Even a week , at this good moment , would do . 
My dear lady , Strether replied and he had it even to himself surprisingly ready my dear lady , his mother has paid HIM a visit . 
Do you suggest he shall go back for more of them ? Well , she succeeded after a little in shaking it off . 
It's what you don't suggest what you haven't suggested . 
So would you , my dear , he kindly said , if you had so much as seen her . 
As seen Mrs. Newsome ? No , Sarah which , both for Chad and for myself , has served all the purpose . 
So it is that we know what she thinks of us . 
Maria had followed , but she had an arrest . 
What I've never made out , if you come to that , is what you think I mean you personally of HER . 
Don't you so much , when all's said , as care a little ? That , he answered with no loss of promptness , is what even Chad himself asked me last night . 
He asked me if I don't mind the loss well , the loss of an opulent future . 
Which moreover , he hastened to add , was a perfectly natural question . 
I call your attention , all the same , said Miss Gostrey , to the fact that I don't ask it . 
What I venture to ask is whether it's to Mrs. Newsome herself that you're indifferent . 
I haven't been so he spoke with all assurance . 
I've been the very opposite . 
I've been , from the first moment , preoccupied with the impression everything might be making on her quite oppressed , haunted , tormented by it . 
I've been interested ONLY in her seeing what I've seen . 
And I've been as disappointed in her refusal to see it as she has been in what has appeared to her the perversity of my insistence . 
Do you mean that she has shocked you as you've shocked her ? Strether weighed it . 
I'm probably not so shockable . 
But on the other hand I've gone much further to meet her . 
She , on her side , hasn't budged an inch . 
So that you're now at last Maria pointed the moral in the sad stage of recriminations . 
No it's only to you I speak . 
I've been like a lamb to Sarah . 
I've only put my back to the wall . 
It's to THAT one naturally staggers when one has been violently pushed there . 
She watched him a moment . 
Thrown over ? Well , as I feel I've landed somewhere I think I must have been thrown . 
She turned it over , but as hoping to clarify much rather than to harmonise . 
The thing is that I suppose you've been disappointing Quite from the very first of my arrival ? I dare say . 
I admit I was surprising even to myself . 
And then of course , Maria went on , I had much to do with it . 
Naturally ! he valued the reminder . 
But they were to have been all for you she continued to piece it out and none of them for HER . 
Once more he stopped before her as if she had touched the point . 
That's just her difficulty that she doesn't admit surprises . 
It's a fact that , I think , describes and represents her and it falls in with what I tell you that she's all , as I've called it , fine cold thought . 
She had , to her own mind , worked the whole thing out in advance , and worked it out for me as well as for herself . 
Whenever she has done that , you see , there's no room left no margin , as it were , for any alteration . 
Which would appear , Maria returned , to be practically what you've done . 
But her friend threw back his head . 
It turned Miss Gostrey to deeper thought . 
But somehow over there I didn't quite know it . 
One never does , I suppose , Miss Gostrey concurred , realise in advance , in such a case , the size , as you may say , of the block . 
Little by little it looms up . 
It has been looming for you more and more till at last you see it all . 
I see it all , he absently echoed , while his eyes might have been fixing some particularly large iceberg in a cool blue northern sea . 
It's magnificent ! he then rather oddly exclaimed . 
But his friend , who was used to this kind of inconsequence in him , kept the thread . 
There's nothing so magnificent for making others feel you as to have no imagination . 
It brought him straight round . 
Ah there you are ! It's what I said last night to Chad . 
That he himself , I mean , has none . 
Then it would appear , Maria suggested , that he has , after all , something in common with his mother . 
He has in common that he makes one , as you say , 'feel' him . 
And yet , he added , as if the question were interesting , one feels others too , even when they have plenty . 
Madame de Vionnet ? SHE has plenty . 
Certainly she had quantities of old . 
But there are different ways of making one's self felt . 
Yes , it comes , no doubt , to that . 
You now He was benevolently going on , but she wouldn't have it . 
Oh I DON'T make myself felt so my quantity needn't be settled . 
Yours , you know , she said , is monstrous . 
No one has ever had so much . 
It struck him for a moment . 
That's what Chad also thinks . 
There YOU are then though it isn't for him to complain of it ! Oh he doesn't complain of it , said Strether . 
That's all that would be wanting ! But apropos of what , Maria went on , did the question come up ? Well , of his asking me what it is I gain . 
Then as I've asked you too it settles my case . 
Oh you HAVE , she repeated , treasures of imagination . 
But he had been for an instant thinking away from this , and he came up in another place . 
And yet Mrs. Newsome it's a thing to remember HAS imagined , did , that is , imagine , and apparently still does , horrors about what I should have found . 
It was more than she could bear . 
You mean you were to have found Chad himself horrible ? I was to have found the woman . 
Horrible ? Found her as she imagined her . 
And Strether paused as if for his own expression of it he could add no touch to that picture . 
His companion had meanwhile thought . 
She imagined stupidly so it comes to the same thing . 
Stupidly ? Oh ! said Strether . 
He had it , however , better . 
It couldn't but be ignorantly . 
Well , intensity with ignorance what do you want worse ? This question might have held him , but he let it pass . 
Sarah isn't ignorant now she keeps up the theory of the horrible . 
Ah but she's intense and that by itself will do sometimes as well . 
If it doesn't do , in this case , at any rate , to deny that Marie's charming , it will do at least to deny that she's good . 
What I claim is that she's good for Chad . 
You don't claim she seemed to like it clear that she's good for YOU . 
But he continued without heeding . 
That's what I wanted them to come out for to see for themselves if she's bad for him . 
But they're consistent of course , inasmuch as they've their clear view of what's good for both of us . 
However , that's comparatively simple . 
You can easily , at the worst , after all , give me up . 
I can easily at the worst , after all , give you up . 
The irony was so obvious that it needed no care . 
I can easily at the worst , after all , even forget you . 
But Mr. Newsome has much more to forget . 
How can HE do it ? Ah there again we are ! That's just what I was to have made him do just where I was to have worked with him and helped . 
She took it in silence and without attenuation as if perhaps from very familiarity with the facts and her thought made a connexion without showing the links . 
It's just what you ARE doing . 
Ah but the worst since you've left such a margin may be still to come . 
You may yet break down . 
Yes , I may yet break down . 
But will you take me ? He had hesitated , and she waited . 
Take you ? For as long as I can bear it . 
She also debated Mr. Newsome and Madame de Vionnet may , as we were saying , leave town . 
How long do you think you can bear it without them ? Strether's reply to this was at first another question . 
Do you mean in order to get away from me ? Her answer had an abruptness . 
You mean after what they've done to me ? After what SHE has . 
At this , however , with a laugh , he was all right again . 
He had dreamed had turned and twisted possibilities for an hour it had been the only adventure of his life in connexion with the purchase of a work of art . 
The adventure , it will be perceived , was modest but the memory , beyond all reason and by some accident of association , was sweet . 
The little Lambinet abode with him as the picture he WOULD have bought the particular production that had made him for the moment overstep the modesty of nature . 
His theory of his excursion was that he could alight anywhere not nearer Paris than an hour's run on catching a suggestion of the particular note required . 
He hadn't gone far without the quick confidence that it would be quite sufficiently kept . 
Moreover he was freely walking about in it . 
There was a train back to Paris at . 
Strether heard his lips , for the first time in French air , as this vision assumed consistency , emit sounds of expressive intention without fear of his company . 
He usually paid for it by meeting immediately afterwards Waymarsh's eye . 
He had the sense of success , of a finer harmony in things nothing but what had turned out as yet according to his plan . 
That was it when once they were off he had dropped this moreover was what he had dropped to , and now he was touching bottom . 
He was kept luxuriously quiet , soothed and amused by the consciousness of what he had found at the end of his descent . 
In the light of the last few days the danger was fairly vivid so that it was proportionately fortunate that the right was likewise established . 
The frame had drawn itself out for him , as much as you please but that was just his luck . 
He had only had to be at last well out of it to feel it , oddly enough , still going on . 
Not a single one of his observations but somehow fell into a place in it not a breath of the cooler evening that wasn't somehow a syllable of the text . 
He felt in short a confidence , and it was general , and it was all he wanted to feel . 
Here she would also report to him on the possibility of a conveyance to his station , and here at any rate he would have the agrement of the river . 
Such a river set one afloat almost before one could take up the oars the idle play of which would be moreover the aid to the full impression . 
The air quite thickened , at their approach , with further intimations the intimation that they were expert , familiar , frequent that this wouldn't at all events be the first time . 
She had remarked on it sharply , yet her companion hadn't turned round it was in fact almost as if our friend had felt her bid him keep still . 
She had taken in something as a result of which their course had wavered , and it continued to waver while they just stood off . 
This little effect was sudden and rapid , so rapid that Strether's sense of it was separate only for an instant from a sharp start of his own . 
He saw they would show nothing if they could feel sure he hadn't made them out so that he had before him for a few seconds his own hesitation . 
They were thus , on either side , TRYING the other side , and all for some reason that broke the stillness like some unprovoked harsh note . 
It seemed to him again , within the limit , that he had but one thing to do to settle their common question by some sign of surprise and joy . 
He hereupon gave large play to these things , agitating his hat and his stick and loudly calling out a demonstration that brought him relief as soon as he had seen it answered . 
Chad dropped afresh to his paddles and the boat headed round , amazement and pleasantry filling the air meanwhile , and relief , as Strether continued to fancy , superseding mere violence . 
That at least was what darkened his vision for the moment . 
Afterwards , after they had bumped at the landing place and he had assisted their getting ashore , everything found itself sponged over by the mere miracle of the encounter . 
He was to reflect later on and in private that it was mainly HE who had explained as he had had moreover comparatively little difficulty in doing . 
He then knew more or less how he had been affected he but half knew at the time . 
He was , at that point of vantage , in full possession , to make of it all what he could . 
He kept making of it that there had been simply a LIE in the charming affair a lie on which one could now , detached and deliberate , perfectly put one's finger . 
He had had in the actual case to make believe more than he liked , but this was nothing , it struck him , to what the other event would have required . 
It was the quantity of make believe involved and so vividly exemplified that most disagreed with his spiritual stomach . 
There was the element of the awkward all round , but Chad and Madame de Vionnet had at least the comfort that they could talk it over together . 
Verily , verily , his labour had been lost . 
He found himself supposing innumerable and wonderful things . 
Book Twelfth I Strether couldn't have said he had during the previous hours definitely expected it yet when . 
He then knew he had been thinking of some early sign from Chad as more likely , after all , than not and this would be precisely the early sign . 
He might have been thinking that if he didn't go before he could think he wouldn't perhaps go at all . 
He at any rate kept , in the lower side pocket of his morning coat , a very deliberate hand on his blue missive , crumpling it up rather tenderly than harshly . 
This alternative was for a few minutes so sharp that if he at last did deposit his missive it was perhaps because the pressure of the place had an effect . 
After he had put in his paper he had ranged himself , he was really amused to think , on the side of the fierce , the sinister , the acute . 
The great settlement was , as he felt , in his preference for seeing his correspondent in her own best conditions . 
THAT was part of the typical tale , the part most significant in respect to himself . 
These things would have been a trifle stern , and sternness alone now wouldn't be sinister . 
What struck him now rather was the ease of it for nothing in truth appeared easier . 
The day had turned to heat and eventual thunder , and he now and again went back to his hotel to find that Chad hadn't been there . 
He hadn't yet struck himself , since leaving Woollett , so much as a loafer , though there had been times when he believed himself touching bottom . 
This was a deeper depth than any , and with no foresight , scarcely with a care , as to what he should bring up . 
They would have distinctly , on his appearance , every ground for scandal . 
But fate failed to administer even that sternness the Pococks never passed and Chad made no sign . 
of regarding his ordeal , the ordeal of the weeks of Sarah's stay and of their climax , as safely traversed and left behind him . 
The windows were all open , their redundant hangings swaying a little , and he heard once more , from the empty court , the small plash of the fountain . 
Thus and so , on the eve of the great recorded dates , the days and nights of revolution , the sounds had come in , the omens , the beginnings broken out . 
They were the smell of revolution , the smell of the public temper or perhaps simply the smell of blood . 
That conviction held him from the outset , and , seeming singularly to simplify , certified to him that the objects about would help him , would really help them both . 
No , he might never see them again this was only too probably the last time and he should certainly see nothing in the least degree like them . 
She had never , with him , been more so or if it was the perfection of art it would never and that came to the same thing be proved against her . 
What was truly wonderful was her way of differing so from time to time without detriment to her simplicity . 
If therefore her presence was now quite other than the one she had shown him the night before , there was nothing of violence in the change it was all harmony and reason . 
He shouldn't enjoy it at all but , once more and yet once more , he could trust her . 
That is he could trust her to make deception right . 
Chad was always letting people have their way when he felt that it would somehow turn his wheel for him it somehow always did turn his wheel . 
It was as if he had been hearing their very tone when she brought out a reference that was comparatively straight . 
The thing therefore she at present desired was ushered in by this recall of the two occasions on which , disinterested and merciful , she hadn't worried him . 
To night truly she WOULD worry him , and this was her appeal to him to let her risk it . 
He wasn't to mind if she bored him a little she had behaved , after all hadn't she ? so awfully , awfully well . 
II Oh , you're all right , you're all right , he almost impatiently declared his impatience being moreover not for her pressure , but for her scruple . 
That was it , unmistakeably she WAS seeing for herself . 
He wanted fully to appear to stand all he might and there was a certain command of the situation for him in this very wish not to look too much at sea . 
He had the advantage that his pronouncing her all right gave him for an enquiry . 
She looked at him , however , an instant as if to convey that if he wanted them ALL ! Selfish and vulgar that's what I must seem to you . 
You've done everything for me , and here I am as if I were asking for more . 
But it isn't , she went on , because I'm afraid though I AM of course afraid , as a woman in my position always is . 
It's in the name of what I DO care about that I've tried still to keep hold of you . 
How shall we not sometimes feel it ? I've wanted to see you often when I couldn't , she pursued , all these last weeks . 
It gives me a kind of detestation She pulled up short . 
Oh but he wanted to hear . 
Detestation of what ? Of everything of life . 
Ah that's too much , he laughed or too little ! Too little , precisely she was eager . 
One does it to cheat one's self and to stop one's mouth but that's only at the best for a little . 
The wretched self is always there , always making one somehow a fresh anxiety . 
What it comes to is that it's not , that it's never , a happiness , any happiness at all , to TAKE . 
The only safe thing is to give . 
It's what plays you least false . 
Interesting , touching , strikingly sincere as she let these things come from her , she yet puzzled and troubled him so fine was the quaver of her quietness . 
He felt what he had felt before with her , that there was always more behind what she showed , and more and more again behind that . 
But you ought , he wound up , to be easy . 
I don't pretend you feel yourself victimised , for this evidently is the way you live , and it's what we're agreed is the best way . 
Yes , as you say , she continued after a moment , I ought to be easy and rest on my work . 
Well then here am I doing so . 
You'll have it for your last impression . 
When is it you say you go ? she asked with a quick change . 
He took some time to reply his last impression was more and more so mixed a one . 
It produced in him a vague disappointment , a drop that was deeper even than the fall of his elation the previous night . 
Women were thus endlessly absorbent , and to deal with them was to walk on water . 
What was at bottom the matter with her , embroider as she might and disclaim as she might what was at bottom the matter with her was simply Chad himself . 
within the common experience should be so transcendently prized . 
This was not the discomposure of last night that had quite passed such discomposures were a detail the real coercion was to see a man ineffably adored . 
He presently found himself taking a long look from her , and the next thing he knew he had uttered all his thought . 
You're afraid for your life ! It drew out her long look , and he soon enough saw why . 
She sat and covered her face with her hands , giving up all attempt at a manner . 
The only thing was that she judged herself as the maidservant wouldn't the weakness of which wisdom too , the dishonour of which judgement , seemed but to sink her lower . 
Her collapse , however , no doubt , was briefer and she had in a manner recovered herself before he intervened . 
Of course I'm afraid for my life . 
He was silent a little longer , as if thinking what it might be . 
There's something I have in mind that I can still do . 
But she threw off at last , with a sharp sad headshake , drying her eyes , what he could still do . 
I don't care for that . 
It's only that you don't snub me , as you've had fifty chances to do it's only your beautiful patience that makes one forget one's manners . 
In spite of your patience , all the same , she went on , you'd do anything rather than be with us here , even if that were possible . 
You'd do everything for us but be mixed up with us which is a statement you can easily answer to the advantage of your own manners . 
You can say 'What's the use of talking of things that at the best are impossible ? What IS of course the use ? It's only my little madness . 
You'd talk if you were tormented . 
And I don't mean now about HIM . 
Oh for him ! Positively , strangely , bitterly , as it seemed to Strether , she gave him , for the moment , away . 
You don't care what I think of you but I happen to care what you think of me . 
And what you MIGHT , she added . 
What you perhaps even did . 
What I did ? Did think before . 
DIDn't you think ? But he had already stopped her . 
I never think a step further than I'm obliged to . 
At any rate , even so far as it's true , we've thrust on you appearances that you've had to take in and that have therefore made your obligation . 
Ugly or beautiful it doesn't matter what we call them you were getting on without them , and that's where we're detestable . 
We bore you that's where we are . 
And we may well for what we've cost you . 
All you can do NOW is not to think at all . 
And I who should have liked to seem to you well , sublime ! He could only after a moment re echo Miss Barrace . 
You're wonderful ! I'm old and abject and hideous she went on as without hearing him . 
It's when one's old that it's worst . 
I don't care what becomes of it let what WILL there it is . 
It's a doom I know it you can't see it more than I do myself . 
Things have to happen as they will . 
With which she came back again to what , face to face with him , had so quite broken down . 
Of course you wouldn't , even if possible , and no matter what may happen to you , be near us . 
But think of me , think of me ! She exhaled it into air . 
He took refuge in repeating something he had already said and that she had made nothing of . 
There's something I believe I can still do . 
And he put his hand out for good bye . 
She again made nothing of it she went on with her insistence . 
There's nothing to help you . 
Well , it may help YOU , he said . 
There's not a grain of certainty in my future for the only certainty is that I shall be the loser in the end . 
She hadn't taken his hand , but she moved with him to the door . 
That's cheerful , he laughed , for your benefactor ! What's cheerful for ME , she replied , is that we might , you and I , have been friends . 
You see how , as I say , I want everything . 
Ah but you've HAD me ! he declared , at the door , with an emphasis that made an end . 
It struck him that , in the inevitable course , Chad would be round , as Waymarsh used to say Waymarsh who already , somehow , seemed long ago . 
It was perhaps a premature judgement or it only meant perhaps how could he tell ? that the wonderful pair he protected had taken up again together the excursion he had accidentally checked . 
He proclaimed satiety at the outset , and she quickly took the hint as docile both in this and in everything else as the intelligent obedient niece . 
She left questions unasked she who for so long had been all questions she gave herself up to him with an understanding of which mere mute gentleness might have seemed the sufficient expression . 
He knew , that is , in a manner knew roughly and resignedly what he himself was hatching whereas he had to take the chance of what he called to himself Maria's calculations . 
It was as if at last however his care for such indications had dropped there came a fifth blank day and he ceased to enquire or to heed . 
They now took on to his fancy , Miss Gostrey and he , the image of the Babes in the Wood they could trust the merciful elements to let them continue at peace . 
He had been great already , as he knew , at postponements but he had only to get afresh into the rhythm of one to feel its fine attraction . 
It faced him , the reckoning , over the shoulder of much interposing experience which also faced him and one would float to it doubtless duly through these caverns of Kubla Khan . 
It was really behind everything it hadn't merged in what he had done his final appreciation of what he had done his appreciation on the spot would provide it with its main sharpness . 
The spot so focussed was of course Woollett , and he was to see , at the best , what Woollett would be with everything there changed for him . 
He was well in port , the outer sea behind him , and it was only a matter of getting ashore . 
It was a question about himself , but it could only be settled by seeing Chad again it was indeed his principal reason for wanting to see Chad . 
After that it wouldn't signify it was a ghost that certain words would easily lay to rest . 
Only the young man must be there to take the words . 
Once they were taken he wouldn't have a question left none , that is , in connexion with this particular affair . 
It wouldn't then matter even to himself that he might now have been guilty of speaking BECAUSE of what he had forfeited . 
That was the refinement of his supreme scruple he wished so to leave what he had forfeited out of account . 
These tints of feeling indeed were doubtless but the iridescence of his idleness , and they were presently lost in a new light from Maria . 
She had a fresh fact for him before the week was out , and she practically met him with it on his appearing one night . 
He was sure within a minute that something had happened it was so in the air of the rich little room that he had scarcely to name his thought . 
Softly lighted , the whole colour of the place , with its vague values , was in cool fusion an effect that made the visitor stand for a little agaze . 
It was as if in doing so now he had felt a recent presence his recognition of the passage of which his hostess in turn divined . 
She had scarcely to say it Yes , she has been here , and this time I received her . 
I've certainly so far done it , Strether said , as that you needn't fear the effect , or the appearance of coming between us . 
There's nothing between us now but what we ourselves have put there , and not an inch of room for anything else whatever . 
Therefore you're only beautifully WITH us as always though doubtless now , if she has talked to you , rather more with us than less . 
Of course if she came , he added , it was to talk to you . 
It was to talk to me , Maria returned on which he was further sure that she was practically in possession of what he himself hadn't yet told her . 
The difference for him might not inconceivably be an arrest of his independence and a change in his attitude in other words a revulsion in favour of the principles of Woollett . 
She had really prefigured the possibility of a shock that would send him swinging back to Mrs. Newsome . 
He hadn't , it was true , week after week , shown signs of receiving it , but the possibility had been none the less in the air . 
What Maria accordingly had had now to take in was that the shock had descended and that he hadn't , all the same , swung back . 
He had grown clear , in a flash , on a point long since settled for herself but no reapproximation to Mrs. Newsome had occurred in consequence . 
Madame de Vionnet had by her visit held up the torch to these truths , and what now lingered in poor Maria's face was the somewhat smoky light of the scene between them . 
She had held herself for months with a firm hand she hadn't interfered on any chance and chances were specious enough that she might interfere to her profit . 
Let us hasten to add , however , that what he at first made out on this occasion he also at first kept to himself . 
He only asked what in particular Madame de Vionnet had come for , and as to this his companion was ready . 
She wants tidings of Mr. Newsome , whom she appears not to have seen for some days . 
Then she hasn't been away with him again ? She seemed to think , Maria answered , that he might have gone away with YOU . 
And did you tell her I know nothing of him ? She had her indulgent headshake . 
I've known nothing of what you know . 
I could only tell her I'd ask you . 
Then I've not seen him for a week and of course I've wondered . 
His wonderment showed at this moment as sharper , but he presently went on . 
Still , I dare say I can put my hand on him . 
Did she strike you , he asked , as anxious ? She's always anxious . 
After all I've done for her ? And he had one of the last flickers of his occasional mild mirth . 
To think that was just what I came out to prevent ! She took it up but to reply . 
You don't regard him then as safe ? I was just going to ask you how in that respect you regard Madame de Vionnet . 
She looked at him a little . 
What woman was EVER safe ? She told me , she added and it was as if at the touch of the connexion of your extraordinary meeting in the country . 
After that a quoi se fier ? It was , as an accident , in all the possible or impossible chapter , Strether conceded , amazing enough . 
But still , but still ! But still she didn't mind ? She doesn't mind anything . 
Well , then , as you don't either , we may all sink to rest ! He appeared to agree with her , but he had his reservation . 
I do mind Chad's disappearance . 
Oh you'll get him back . 
But now you know , she said , why I went to Mentone . 
He had sufficiently let her see that he had by this time gathered things together , but there was nature in her wish to make them clearer still . 
I didn't want you to put it to me . 
To put it to you ? The question of what you were at last a week ago to see for yourself . 
I didn't want to have to lie for her . 
I felt that to be too much for me . 
I don't need protection , so that I was free to 'funk' you simply to dodge your test . 
The responsibility was too much for me . 
I gained time , and when I came back the need of a test had blown over . 
Strether thought of it serenely . 
Yes when you came back little Bilham had shown me what's expected of a gentleman . 
Little Bilham had lied like one . 
And like what you believed him ? Well , said Strether , it was but a technical lie he classed the attachment as virtuous . 
That was a view for which there was much to be said and the virtue came out for me hugely There was of course a great deal of it . 
I got it full in the face , and I haven't , you see , done with it yet . 
What I see , what I saw , Maria returned , is that you dressed up even the virtue . 
There were moments , she explained , when you struck me as grandly cynical there were others when you struck me as grandly vague . 
Yes , but things must have a basis . 
A basis seemed to me just what her beauty supplied . 
Her beauty of person ? Well , her beauty of everything . 
She has such variety and yet such harmony . 
She considered him with one of her deep returns of indulgence returns out of all proportion to the irritations they flooded over . 
You're always too personal , he good humouredly said but that's precisely how I wondered and wandered . 
If you mean , she went on , that she was from the first for you the most charming woman in the world , nothing's more simple . 
Only that was an odd foundation . 
For what I reared on it ? For what you didn't ! Well , it was all not a fixed quantity . 
And it had for me it has still such elements of strangeness . 
Her greater age than his , her different world , traditions , association her other opportunities , liabilities , standards . 
His friend listened with respect to his enumeration of these disparities then she disposed of them at a stroke . 
Those things are nothing when a woman's hit . 
Strether , on his side , did justice to that plea . 
Oh of course I saw she was hit . 
That she was hit was what we were busy with that she was hit was our great affair . 
But somehow I couldn't think of her as down in the dust . 
And as put there by OUR little Chad ! Yet wasn't 'your' little Chad just your miracle ? Strether admitted it . 
Of course I moved among miracles . 
But the great fact was that so much of it was none of my business as I saw my business . 
His companion turned away on this , and it might well have been yet again with the sharpness of a fear of how little his philosophy could bring her personally . 
I wish SHE could hear you ! Mrs. Newsome ? No not Mrs. Newsome since I understand you that it doesn't matter now what Mrs. Newsome hears . 
Hasn't she heard everything ? Practically yes . 
He had thought a moment , but he went on . 
You wish Madame de Vionnet could hear me ? Madame de Vionnet . 
She had come back to him . 
She thinks just the contrary of what you say . 
That you distinctly judge her . 
He turned over the scene as the two women thus placed together for him seemed to give it . 
She might have known ! Might have known you don't ? Miss Gostrey asked as he let it drop . 
She was sure of it at first , she pursued as he said nothing she took it for granted , at least , as any woman in her position would . 
But after that she changed her mind she believed you believed Well ? he was curious . 
And that belief had remained with her , I make out , till the accident of the other day opened your eyes . 
For that it did , said Maria , open them She can't help he had taken it up being aware ? No , he mused I suppose she thinks of that even yet . 
Then they WERE closed ? There you are ! However , if you see her as the most charming woman in the world it comes to the same thing . 
And if you'd like me to tell her that you do still so see her ! Miss Gostrey , in short , offered herself for service to the end . 
It was an offer he could temporarily entertain but he decided . 
She knows perfectly how I see her . 
Not favourably enough , she mentioned to me , to wish ever to see her again . 
She told me you had taken a final leave of her . 
She says you've done with her . 
Maria had a pause then she spoke as if for conscience . 
She wouldn't have done with YOU . 
She feels she has lost you yet that she might have been better for you . 
Oh she has been quite good enough ! Strether laughed . 
She thinks you and she might at any rate have been friends . 
That's just he continued to laugh why I'm going . 
It was as if Maria could feel with this then at last that she had done her best for each . 
But she had still an idea . 
Shall I tell her that ? No. Tell her nothing . 
To which in the next breath Miss Gostrey added Poor dear thing ! Her friend wondered then with raised eyebrows Me ? Oh no . 
He accepted the correction , but he wondered still . 
Are you so sorry for her as that ? It made her think a moment made her even speak with a smile . 
But she didn't really retract . 
If he was to get away because of some of the relations involved in staying , the cold attitude toward them might look pedantic in the light of lingering on . 
He must do both things he must see Chad , but he must go . 
The more he thought of the former of these duties the more he felt himself make a subject of insistence of the latter . 
They were alike intensely present to him as he sat in front of a quiet little cafe into which he had dropped on quitting Maria's entresol . 
The rain that had spoiled his evening with her was over for it was still to him as if his evening HAD been spoiled though it mightn't have been wholly the rain . 
He had since had occasion , a few times , to pass the house without going in but he had never passed it without again feeling how it had then spoken to him . 
He stopped short to night on coming to sight of it it was as if his last day were oddly copying his first . 
His life , his life ! Strether paused anew , on the last flight , at this final rather breathless sense of what Chad's life was doing with Chad's mother's emissary . 
There was literally a minute it was strange enough during which he grasped the idea that as he WAS acting , as he could only act , he was inconsistent . 
The sign that the inward forces he had obeyed really hung together would be that in default always of another career he should promote the good cause by mounting guard on it . 
These things , during his first minutes , came and went but they were after all practically disposed of as soon as he had mentioned his errand . 
He proceeded with the rest of his business . 
You'll be a brute , you know you'll be guilty of the last infamy if you ever forsake her . 
It placed his present call immediately on solid ground , and the effect of it was to enable him quite to play with what we have called the key . 
Chad showed no shade of embarrassment , but had none the less been troubled for him after their meeting in the country had had fears and doubts on the subject of his comfort . 
This was what was between them while the visitor remained so far from having to go over old ground he found his entertainer keen to agree to everything . 
It couldn't be put too strongly for him that he'd be a brute . 
Oh rather ! if I should do anything of THAT sort . 
I hope you believe I really feel it . 
I want it , said Strether , to be my last word of all to you . 
I can't say more , you know and I don't see how I can do more , in every way , than I've done . 
Chad took this , almost artlessly , as a direct allusion . 
You've seen her ? Oh yes to say good bye . 
And if I had doubted the truth of what I tell you She'd have cleared up your doubt ? Chad understood rather again ! It even kept him briefly silent . 
But he made that up . 
She must have been wonderful . 
She WAS , Strether candidly admitted all of which practically told as a reference to the conditions created by the accident of the previous week . 
They appeared for a little to be looking back at it and that came out still more in what Chad next said . 
I don't know what you've really thought , all along I never did know for anything , with you , seemed to be possible . 
But of course of course Without confusion , quite with nothing but indulgence , he broke down , he pulled up . 
After all , you understand . 
I spoke to you originally only as I HAD to speak . 
There's only one way isn't there ? about such things . 
However , he smiled with a final philosophy , I see it's all right . 
Strether met his eyes with a sense of multiplying thoughts . 
He himself said immediately none of the things that he was thinking he said something quite different . 
You HAVE really been to a distance ? I've been to England . 
Chad spoke cheerfully and promptly , but gave no further account of it than to say One must sometimes get off . 
Strether wanted no more facts he only wanted to justify , as it were , his question . 
Of course you do as you're free to do . 
But I hope , this time , that you didn't go for ME . 
Even at the risk of being in your way I've waited on , you know , for a definite reason . 
Oh yes for us to make if possible a still better impression . 
And he stood there happily exhaling his full general consciousness . 
I'm delighted to gather that you feel we've made it . 
There was a pleasant irony in the words , which his guest , preoccupied and keeping to the point , didn't take up . 
If I had my sense of wanting the rest of the time the time of their being still on this side , he continued to explain I know now why I wanted it . 
He was as grave , as distinct , as a demonstrator before a blackboard , and Chad continued to face him like an intelligent pupil . 
You wanted to have been put through the whole thing . 
Strether again , for a moment , said nothing he turned his eyes away , and they lost themselves , through the open window , in the dusky outer air . 
The light of his plural pronoun was sufficiently reflected in his companion's face as he again met it and he completed his demonstration . 
He pursued indeed as if for himself . 
Of course I've first to justify what I shall do . 
You're justifying it beautifully ! Chad declared . 
It's not a question of advising you not to go , Strether said , but of absolutely preventing you , if possible , from so much as thinking of it . 
Let me accordingly appeal to you by all you hold sacred . 
Chad gave a sharper look , as if to gauge a possible suspicion . 
I don't know what should make you think I'm tired of her . 
Strether didn't quite know either , and such impressions , for the imaginative mind , were always too fine , too floating , to produce on the spot their warrant . 
There was none the less for him , in the very manner of his host's allusion to satiety as a thinkable motive , a slight breath of the ominous . 
I feel how much more she can do for you . 
She hasn't done it all yet . 
Stay with her at least till she has . 
And leave her THEN ? Chad had kept smiling , but its effect in Strether was a shade of dryness . 
When you've got all that can be got I don't say , he added a trifle grimly . 
That will be the proper time . 
But as , for you , from such a woman , there will always be something to be got , my remark's not a wrong to her . 
Chad let him go on , showing every decent deference , showing perhaps also a candid curiosity for this sharper accent . 
I remember you , you know , as you were . 
You certainly then wouldn't have seemed worth all you've let me in for . 
Well then , wouldn't that be enough ? Chad had risked it jocosely , but Strether remained blank . 
Enough ? If one SHOULD wish to live on one's accumulations ? After which , however , as his friend appeared cold to the joke , the young man as easily dropped it . 
Of course I really never forget , night or day , what I owe her . 
I give you my word of honour , he frankly rang out , that I'm not a bit tired of her . 
Strether at this only gave him a stare the way youth could express itself was again and again a wonder . 
She has never for a moment yet bored me never been wanting , as the cleverest women sometimes are , in tact . 
She has never talked about her tact as even they too sometimes talk but she has always had it . 
She has never had it more he handsomely made the point than just lately . 
And he scrupulously went further . 
She has never been anything I could call a burden . 
Strether for a moment said nothing then he spoke gravely , with his shade of dryness deepened . 
If there was nothing for it but to repeat , however , repetition was no mistake . 
You owe her everything very much more than she can ever owe you . 
Chad looked at him with a smile . 
And you know of course about the others , eh ? since it's you yourself who have done the presenting . 
Much of it yes and to the best of my ability . 
But not all from the moment your sister took my place . 
She didn't , Chad returned . 
Sally took a place , certainly but it was never , I saw from the first moment , to be yours . 
No one with us will ever take yours . 
Ah of course , sighed Strether , I knew it . 
No one in the world , I imagine , was ever so portentously solemn . 
There I am , he added with another sigh , as if weary enough , on occasion , of this truth . 
Chad appeared for a little to consider the way he was made he might for this purpose have measured him up and down . 
His conclusion favoured the fact . 
YOU have never needed any one to make you better . 
There has never been any one good enough . 
They couldn't , the young man declared . 
Chad showed , not without amusement , his doubt . 
Who then ? Strether though a little dimly smiled at him . 
'Two' ? Chad stared and laughed . 
Oh I don't believe , for such work , in any more than one ! So you're proving too much . 
And what IS beastly , at all events , he added , is losing you . 
Strether had set himself in motion for departure , but at this he paused . 
Are you afraid ? Afraid ? Of doing wrong . 
I mean away from my eye . 
Before Chad could speak , however , he had taken himself up . 
I AM , certainly , he laughed , prodigious . 
You needn't tell me , you needn't tell me ! this again as they proceeded , he wished to make Strether feel . 
What he needn't tell him was now at last , in the geniality of separation , anything at all it concerned him to know . 
The latter took , at this hour , all he could get he had given all he had had to give he was as depleted as if he had spent his last sou . 
But there was just one thing for which , before they broke off , Chad seemed disposed slightly to bargain . 
His companion needn't , as he said , tell him , but he might himself mention that he had been getting some news of the art of advertisement . 
He came out quite suddenly with this announcement while Strether wondered if his revived interest were what had taken him , with strange inconsequence , over to London . 
He appeared at all events to have been looking into the question and had encountered a revelation . 
Advertising scientifically worked presented itself thus as the great new force . 
It really does the thing , you know . 
They were face to face under the street lamp as they had been the first night , and Strether , no doubt , looked blank . 
Affects , you mean , the sale of the object advertised ? Yes but affects it extraordinarily really beyond what one had supposed . 
I mean of course when it's done as one makes out that in our roaring age , it CAN be done . 
It's an art like another , and infinite like all the arts . 
He went on as if for the joke of it almost as if his friend's face amused him . 
In the hands , naturally , of a master . 
The right man must take hold . 
With the right man to work it c'est un monde . 
Strether had watched him quite as if , there on the pavement without a pretext , he had begun to dance a fancy step . 
Oh yes , and there's no doubt that , with your natural parts , you'd have much in common with him . 
Advertising is clearly at this time of day the secret of trade . 
It's quite possible it will be open to you giving the whole of your mind to it to make the whole place hum with you . 
Your mother's appeal is to the whole of your mind , and that's exactly the strength of her case . 
Chad's fingers continued to twiddle , but he had something of a drop . 
Ah we've been through my mother's case ! So I thought . 
Why then do you speak of the matter ? Only because it was part of our original discussion . 
To wind up where we began , my interest's purely platonic . 
There at any rate the fact is the fact of the possible . 
I mean the money in it . 
Oh damn the money in it ! said Strether . 
You're not altogether in your so great 'solemnity' kind . 
Don't be afraid for THAT . 
It's pleasant to a fellow's feelings , he developed , to 'size up' the bribe he applies his foot to . 
Oh then if all you want's a kickable surface the bribe's enormous . 
Then there it goes ! Chad administered his kick with fantastic force and sent an imaginary object flying . 
It was accordingly as if they were once more rid of the question and could come back to what really concerned him . 
Of course I shall see you tomorrow . 
But Strether scarce heeded the plan proposed for this he had still the impression not the slighter for the simulated kick of an irrelevant hornpipe or jig . 
Ah , returned Chad as they parted , you're exciting . 
V He had , however , within two days , another separation to face . 
The specimens of vivid Delf , in particular had the dignity of family portraits and it was in the midst of them that our friend resignedly expressed himself . 
He spoke even with a certain philosophic humour . 
There's nothing more to wait for I seem to have done a good day's work . 
I've let them have it all round . 
I've seen Chad , who has been to London and come back . 
He tells me I'm 'exciting , and I seem indeed pretty well to have upset every one . 
I've at any rate excited HIM . 
You've excited ME , Miss Gostrey smiled . 
Oh you were that when I found you . 
It seems to me I've rather got you out of it . 
On which they fronted each other , across the table , as if things unuttered were in the air . 
Strether seemed , in his way , when he next spoke , to take some of them up . 
It wouldn't give me that would be the trouble what it will , no doubt , still give you . 
I'm not , he explained , leaning back in his chair , but with his eyes on a small ripe round melon in real harmony with what surrounds me . 
I take it too hard . 
It makes that's what it comes to in the end a fool of me . 
Then at a tangent , What has he been doing in London ? he demanded . 
Ah one may go to London , Maria laughed . 
Yes he took the reminder . 
And you brought ME back . 
He brooded there opposite to her , but without gloom . 
Whom has Chad brought ? He's full of ideas . 
And I wrote to Sarah , he added , the first thing this morning . 
She neglected certain parts of this speech in the interest of others . 
Marie said to me the other day that she felt him to have the makings of an immense man of business . 
Then moreover it was but to remark that he'd answer her presently . 
Do you remember our talking of it in London that night at the play ? Before he could say yes , however , she had put it to him for other matters . 
They had so assumed it was to be in some wonderful place they had thought of it as so very MUCH out . 
Well , that was doubtless what it had been since he had come out just there . 
He was out , in truth , as far as it was possible to be , and must now rather bethink himself of getting in again . 
He found on the spot the image of his recent history he was like one of the figures of the old clock at Berne . 
THEY came out , on one side , at their hour , jigged along their little course in the public eye , and went in on the other side . 
He too had jigged his little course him too a modest retreat awaited . 
He offered now , should she really like to know , to name the great product of Woollett . 
It would be a great commentary on everything . 
At this she stopped him off she not only had no wish to know , but she wouldn't know for the world . 
She had done with the products of Woollett for all the good she had got from them . 
She desired no further news of them , and she mentioned that Madame de Vionnet herself had , to her knowledge , lived exempt from the information he was ready to supply . 
She had never consented to receive it , though she would have taken it , under stress , from Mrs. Pocock . 
But it was a matter about which Mrs. Pocock appeared to have had little to say never sounding the word and it didn't signify now . 
There was nothing clearly for Maria Gostrey that signified now save one sharp point , that is , to which she came in time . 
I don't know whether it's before you as a possibility that , left to himself , Mr. Chad may after all go back . 
I judge that it IS more or less so before you , from what you just now said of him . 
Her guest had his eyes on her , kindly but attentively , as if foreseeing what was to follow this . 
I don't think it will be for the money . 
And then as she seemed uncertain I mean I don't believe it will be for that he'll give her up . 
There's nothing any one can do . 
Over for both of us . 
Maria wondered , seemed a little to doubt . 
Are you so sure for her ? Oh yes sure now . 
She took it in then , drawing a deeper breath . 
So that as she's different for YOU Ah but , he interrupted , she's not . 
And as Miss Gostrey wondered again She's the same . 
She's more than ever the same . 
But I do what I didn't before I SEE her . 
He put her question by for the moment he told her more about Chad . 
It would have been impossible to meet me more than he did last night on the question of the infamy of not sticking to her . 
Is that what you called it for him 'infamy' ? Oh rather ! I described to him in detail the base creature he'd be , and he quite agrees with me about it . 
So that it's really as if you had nailed him ? Quite really as if ! I told him I should curse him . 
Oh , she smiled , you HAVE done it . 
And then having thought again You CAN'T after that propose ! Yet she scanned his face . 
Propose again to Mrs. Newsome ? She hesitated afresh , but she brought it out . 
I've never believed , you know , that you did propose . 
I always believed it was really she and , so far as that goes , I can understand it . 
What I mean is , she explained , that with such a spirit the spirit of curses ! your breach is past mending . 
She has only to know what you've done to him never again to raise a finger . 
I've done , said Strether , what I could one can't do more . 
He protests his devotion and his horror . 
But I'm not sure I've saved him . 
He asks how one can dream of his being tired . 
But he has all life before him . 
Maria saw what he meant . 
And it's our friend who has formed him . 
Strether felt in it the strange irony . 
So it's scarcely his fault ! It's at any rate his danger . 
I mean , said Strether , it's hers . 
Yes , she knows it . 
And is your idea , Miss Gostrey asked , that there was some other woman in London ? Yes . 
No. That is I HAVE no ideas . 
And he put out his hand to her . 
It brought her back to her unanswered question . 
To what do you go home ? I don't know . 
There will always be something . 
To a great difference , she said as she kept his hand . 
A great difference no doubt . 
Yet I shall see what I can make of it . 
Shall you make anything so good ? But , as if remembering what Mrs. Newsome had done , it was as far as she went . 
It built him softly round , it roofed him warmly over , it rested , all so firm , on selection . 
And what ruled selection was beauty and knowledge . 
She'd moreover understand she always understood . 
That indeed might be , but meanwhile she was going on . 
There's nothing , you know , I wouldn't do for you . 
There's nothing , she repeated , in all the world . 
But all the same I must go . 
He had got it at last . 
To be right ? She had echoed it in vague deprecation , but he felt it already clear for her . 
That , you see , is my only logic . 
Not , out of the whole affair , to have got anything for myself . 
But with your wonderful impressions you'll have got a great deal . 
A great deal he agreed . 
It's you who would make me wrong ! Honest and fine , she couldn't greatly pretend she didn't see it . 
Still she could pretend just a little . 
But why should you be so dreadfully right ? That's the way that if I must go you yourself would be the first to want me . 
And I can't do anything else . 
So then she had to take it , though still with her defeated protest . 
It isn't so much your BEING 'right' it's your horrible sharp eye for what makes you so . 
Oh but you're just as bad yourself . 
You can't resist me when I point that out . 
She sighed it at last all comically , all tragically , away . 
I can't indeed resist you . 
Then there we are ! said Strether . 
This is the end of the Project Gutenberg Edition of The Ambassadors , by Henry James . 
