American Notes for General Circulation by Charles Dickens Scanned and proofed by David Price email ccx coventry . 
uk American Notes for General Circulation PREFACE TO THE FIRST CHEAP EDITION OF AMERICAN NOTES IT is nearly eight years since this book was first published . 
I present it , unaltered , in the Cheap Edition and such of my opinions as it expresses , are quite unaltered too . 
My readers have opportunities of judging for themselves whether the influences and tendencies which I distrust in America , have any existence not in my imagination . 
As they find the fact , they will judge me . 
If they discern any evidences of wrong going in any direction that I have indicated , they will acknowledge that I had reason in what I wrote . 
If they discern no such thing , they will consider me altogether mistaken . 
Prejudiced , I never have been otherwise than in favour of the United States . 
No visitor can ever have set foot on those shores , with a stronger faith in the Republic than I had , when I landed in America . 
I purposely abstain from extending these observations to any length . 
I have nothing to defend , or to explain away . 
The truth is the truth and neither childish absurdities , nor unscrupulous contradictions , can make it otherwise . 
The earth would still move round the sun , though the whole Catholic Church said No. I have many friends in America , and feel a grateful interest in the country . 
As they find the fact , they will judge me . 
If they discern any evidences of wrong going , in any direction that I have indicated , they will acknowledge that I had reason in what I wrote . 
If they discern no such indications , they will consider me altogether mistaken but not wilfully . 
Prejudiced , I am not , and never have been , otherwise than in favour of the United States . 
To represent me as viewing AMERICA with ill nature , coldness , or animosity , is merely to do a very foolish thing which is always a very easy one . 
We had experienced a pretty smart shock before coming below , which , but that we were the most sanguine people living , might have prepared us for the worst . 
with groups of ladies and gentlemen , in the very highest state of enjoyment and vivacity . 
, smote his forehead involuntarily , and said below his breath , 'Impossible ! it cannot be ! or words to that effect . 
When the man in reply avowed the truth the blunt , remorseless , naked truth 'This is the saloon , sir' he actually reeled beneath the blow . 
Having settled this point to the perfect satisfaction of all parties , concerned and unconcerned , we sat down round the fire in the ladies' cabin just to try the effect . 
But we are made fast alongside the packet , whose huge red funnel is smoking bravely , giving rich promise of serious intentions . 
Packing cases , portmanteaus , carpet bags , and boxes , are already passed from hand to hand , and hauled on board with breathless rapidity . 
The officers , smartly dressed , are at the gangway handing the passengers up the side , and hurrying the men . 
What have we here ? The captain's boat ! and yonder the captain himself . 
'Ring the bell ! 'Ding , ding , ding ! the very bell is in a hurry . 
'Now for the shore who's for the shore ? 'These gentlemen , I am sorry to say . 
They are away , and never said , Good b'ye . 
Ah now they wave it from the little boat . 
'Good b'ye ! Good b'ye ! Three cheers from them three more from us three more from them and they are gone . 
To and fro , to and fro , to and fro again a hundred times ! This waiting for the latest mail bags is worse than all . 
A speck in the mist , at last ! That's something . 
It is the boat we wait for ! That's more to the purpose . 
The boat comes alongside the bags are dragged in anyhow , and flung down for the moment anywhere . 
CHAPTER II THE PASSAGE OUT WE all dined together that day and a rather formidable party we were no fewer than eighty six strong . 
The tea table , too , was by no means as well attended as the dinner table and there was less whist playing than might have been expected . 
, went on with unabated spirit , until eleven o'clock or thereabouts , when 'turning in' no sailor of seven hours' experience talks of going to bed became the order of the night . 
To one unaccustomed to such scenes , this is a very striking time on shipboard . 
Afterwards , and when its novelty had long worn off , it never ceased to have a peculiar interest and charm for me . 
They change with the wandering fancy assume the semblance of things left far away put on the well remembered aspect of favourite places dearly loved and even people them with shadows . 
My own two hands , and feet likewise , being very cold , however , on this particular occasion , I crept below at midnight . 
It was not exactly comfortable below . 
was a mere bundle on the floor , execrating her destiny , and pounding her curl papers among the stray boxes . 
Everything sloped the wrong way which in itself was an aggravation scarcely to be borne . 
Now every plank and timber creaked , as if the ship were made of wicker work and now crackled , like an enormous fire of the driest possible twigs . 
There was nothing for it but bed so I went to bed . 
It was pretty much the same for the next two days , with a tolerably fair wind and dry weather . 
a good deal and reeled on deck a little drank cold brandy and water with an unspeakable disgust , and ate hard biscuit perseveringly not ill , but going to be . 
It is the third morning . 
I am awakened out of my sleep by a dismal shriek from my wife , who demands to know whether there's any danger . 
I rouse myself , and look out of bed . 
Suddenly I see them spring into the air , and behold the looking glass , which is nailed to the wall , sticking fast upon the ceiling . 
At the same time the door entirely disappears , and a new one is opened in the floor . 
Then I begin to comprehend that the state room is standing on its head . 
Before it is possible to make any arrangement at all compatible with this novel state of things , the ship rights . 
Before one can say 'Thank Heaven ! she wrongs again . 
Before one can so much as wonder , she takes a high leap into the air . 
Before she has well done that , she takes a deep dive into the water . 
Before she has gained the surface , she throws a summerset . 
The instant she is on her legs , she rushes backward . 
'Steward ! 'Sir ? 'What IS the matter ? what DO you call this ? 'Rather a heavy sea on , sir , and a head wind . 
Imagine the ship herself , with every pulse and artery of her huge body swollen and bursting under this maltreatment , sworn to go on or die . 
Imagine the wind howling , the sea roaring , the rain beating all in furious array against her . 
Picture the sky both dark and wild , and the clouds , in fearful sympathy with the waves , making another ocean in the air . 
Nothing would have surprised me . 
If Neptune himself had walked in , with a toasted shark on his trident , I should have looked upon the event as one of the very commonest everyday occurrences . 
Once once I found myself on deck . 
I found myself standing , when a gleam of consciousness came upon me , holding on to something . 
I think it was the boatswain or it may have been the pump or possibly the cow . 
I can't say how long I had been there whether a day or a minute . 
I could not even make out which was the sea , and which the sky , for the horizon seemed drunk , and was flying wildly about in all directions . 
Even in that incapable state , however , I recognised the lazy gentleman standing before me nautically clad in a suit of shaggy blue , with an oilskin hat . 
But I was too imbecile , although I knew it to be he , to separate him from his dress and tried to call him , I remember , PILOT . 
After another interval of total unconsciousness , I found he had gone , and recognised another figure in its place . 
I tried to thank him , but couldn't . 
Finding that I was quite insensible , and for the time a maniac , he humanely conducted me below . 
One gentleman on board had a letter of introduction to me from a mutual friend in London . 
I date my recovery from the receipt of that intelligence . 
The labouring of the ship in the troubled sea on this night I shall never forget . 
But what the agitation of a steam vessel is , on a bad winter's night in the wild Atlantic , it is impossible for the most vivid imagination to conceive . 
To say that all is grand , and all appalling and horrible in the last degree , is nothing . 
Only a dream can call it up again , in all its fury , rage , and passion . 
were a pair of dreadnought trousers a blue jacket , formerly admired upon the Thames at Richmond no stockings and one slipper . 
But anything like the utter dreariness and desolation that met my eyes when I literally 'tumbled up' on deck at noon , I never saw . 
Ocean and sky were all of one dull , heavy , uniform , lead colour . 
There was no extent of prospect even over the dreary waste that lay around us , for the sea ran high , and the horizon encompassed us like a large black hoop . 
The planking of the paddle boxes had been torn sheer away . 
The wheels were exposed and bare and they whirled and dashed their spray about the decks at random . 
Chimney , white with crusted salt topmasts struck storm sails set rigging all knotted , tangled , wet , and drooping a gloomier picture it would be hard to look upon . 
I was now comfortably established by courtesy in the ladies' cabin , where , besides ourselves , there were only four other passengers . 
First , the little Scotch lady before mentioned , on her way to join her husband at New York , who had settled there three years before . 
I may add , for the information of the curious , that they decidedly failed . 
, the vessel's rate of sailing , and so forth . 
Observations there were none to tell us of , for there was no sun to take them by . 
But a description of one day will serve for all the rest . 
The captain being gone , we compose ourselves to read , if the place be light enough and if not , we doze and talk alternately . 
and are as long as possible about it . 
If the fire will burn we are pretty cheerful . 
prolong the meal with a rather mouldy dessert of apples , grapes , and oranges and drink our wine and brandy and water . 
turns up his coat collar for the deck again shakes hands all round and goes laughing out into the weather as merrily as to a birthday party . 
As to daily news , there is no dearth of that commodity . 
The head engineer has distinctly said that there never was such times meaning weather and four good hands are ill , and have given in , dead beat . 
Several berths are full of water , and all the cabins are leaky . 
The ship's cook , secretly swigging damaged whiskey , has been found drunk and has been played upon by the fire engine until quite sober . 
All the stewards have fallen down stairs at various dinner times , and go about with plasters in various places . 
The baker is ill , and so is the pastry cook . 
it is death to him to look at . 
News ! A dozen murders on shore would lack the interest of these slight incidents at sea . 
Nor was it less amusing to remark how desperately unpopular the poor pilot became in one short minute . 
He had had his passage out from Liverpool , and during the whole voyage had been quite a notorious character , as a teller of anecdotes and cracker of jokes . 
Our captain had foreseen from the first that we must be in a place called the Eastern passage and so we were . 
Eased by this report , and by the assurance that the tide was past the ebb , we turned in at three o'clock in the morning . 
I was dressing about half past nine next day , when the noise above hurried me on deck . 
When I had left it overnight , it was dark , foggy , and damp , and there were bleak hills all round us . 
But I carried away with me a most pleasant impression of the town and its inhabitants , and have preserved it to this hour . 
Nor was it without regret that I came home , without having found an opportunity of returning thither , and once more shaking hands with the friends I made that day . 
The governor , as her Majesty's representative , delivered what may be called the Speech from the Throne . 
He said what he had to say manfully and well . 
The town is built on the side of a hill , the highest point being commanded by a strong fortress , not yet quite finished . 
Several streets of good breadth and appearance extend from its summit to the water side , and are intersected by cross streets running parallel with the river . 
The houses are chiefly of wood . 
The market is abundantly supplied and provisions are exceedingly cheap . 
The day was uncommonly fine the air bracing and healthful the whole aspect of the town cheerful , thriving , and industrious . 
We lay there seven hours , to deliver and exchange the mails . 
, the engines were again put in motion , and we stood off for Boston . 
Encountering squally weather again in the Bay of Fundy , we tumbled and rolled about as usual all that night and all next day . 
A sharp keen wind blew dead against us a hard frost prevailed on shore and the cold was most severe . 
Yet the air was so intensely clear , and dry , and bright , that the temperature was not only endurable , but delicious . 
, 'because they liked the excitement of it . 
'Dinner , if you please , said I to the waiter . 
'When ? said the waiter . 
'As quick as possible , said I. 'Right away ? said the waiter . 
After a moment's hesitation , I answered 'No , at hazard . 
'NOT right away ? cried the waiter , with an amount of surprise that made me start . 
I looked at him doubtfully , and returned , 'No I would rather have it in this private room . 
I like it very much . 
'Well ! and that's a fact ! said the waiter , looking helplessly at me 'Right away . 
I saw now that 'Right away' and 'Directly' were one and the same thing . 
So I reversed my previous answer , and sat down to dinner in ten minutes afterwards and a capital dinner it was . 
The hotel is called the Tremont House . 
It has more galleries , colonnades , piazzas , and passages than I can remember , or the reader would believe . 
CHAPTER III BOSTON IN all the public establishments of America , the utmost courtesy prevails . 
The number of creeds and forms of religion to which the pleasure of our company was requested , was in very fair proportion . 
Channing , who happened to preach that morning for the first time in a very long interval . 
The suburbs are , if possible , even more unsubstantial looking than the city . 
The city is a beautiful one , and cannot fail , I should imagine , to impress all strangers very favourably . 
The private dwelling houses are , for the most part , large and elegant the shops extremely good and the public buildings handsome . 
The State House is built upon the summit of a hill , which rises gradually at first , and afterwards by a steep ascent , almost from the water's edge . 
In front is a green enclosure , called the Common . 
The site is beautiful and from the top there is a charming panoramic view of the whole town and neighbourhood . 
In addition to a variety of commodious offices , it contains two handsome chambers in one the House of Representatives of the State hold their meetings in the other , the Senate . 
Such proceedings as I saw here , were conducted with perfect gravity and decorum and were certainly calculated to inspire attention and respect . 
I never in my life was more affected by the contemplation of happiness , under circumstances of privation and bereavement , than in my visits to these establishments . 
that they act in concert with it , and are emphatically the people's . 
The maxim that out of evil cometh good , is strongly illustrated by these establishments at home as the records of the Prerogative Office in Doctors' Commons can abundantly prove . 
Some immensely rich old gentleman or lady , surrounded by needy relatives , makes , upon a low average , a will a week . 
The Perkins Institution and Massachusetts Asylum for the Blind , at Boston , is superintended by a body of trustees who make an annual report to the corporation . 
The indigent blind of that state are admitted gratuitously . 
It is built upon a height , commanding the harbour . 
It was but momentary , of course , and a mere fancy , but I felt it keenly for all that . 
The children were at their daily tasks in different rooms , except a few who were already dismissed , and were at play . 
Here , as in many institutions , no uniform is worn and I was very glad of it , for two reasons . 
Firstly , because I am sure that nothing but senseless custom and want of thought would reconcile us to the liveries and badges we are so fond of at home . 
Good order , cleanliness , and comfort , pervaded every corner of the building . 
Those who were at play , were gleesome and noisy as other children . 
More spiritual and affectionate friendships appeared to exist among them , than would be found among other young persons suffering under no deprivation but this I expected and was prepared to find . 
It is a part of the great scheme of Heaven's merciful consideration for the afflicted . 
sat close beside me with her face towards them , wept silently the while she listened . 
Long before I looked upon her , the help had come . 
Her face was radiant with intelligence and pleasure . 
From the mournful ruin of such bereavement , there had slowly risen up this gentle , tender , guileless , grateful hearted being . 
Like other inmates of that house , she had a green ribbon bound round her eyelids . 
A doll she had dressed lay near upon the ground . 
I took it up , and saw that she had made a green fillet such as she wore herself , and fastened it about its mimic eyes . 
She was seated in a little enclosure , made by school desks and forms , writing her daily journal . 
But soon finishing this pursuit , she engaged in an animated conversation with a teacher who sat beside her . 
This was a favourite mistress with the poor pupil . 
If she could see the face of her fair instructress , she would not love her less , I am sure . 
I have extracted a few disjointed fragments of her history , from an account , written by that one man who has made her what she is . 
It is a very beautiful and touching narrative and I wish I could present it entire . 
Her name is Laura Bridgman . 
'She was born in Hanover , New Hampshire , on the twenty first of December , . 
She is described as having been a very sprightly and pretty infant , with bright blue eyes . 
She was , however , so puny and feeble until she was a year and a half old , that her parents hardly hoped to rear her . 
to have displayed a considerable degree of intelligence . 
'But suddenly she sickened again her disease raged with great violence during five weeks , when her eyes and ears were inflamed , suppurated , and their contents were discharged . 
But though sight and hearing were gone for ever , the poor child's sufferings were not ended . 
It was now observed that her sense of smell was almost entirely destroyed and , consequently , that her taste was much blunted . 
'It was not until four years of age that the poor child's bodily health seemed restored , and she was able to enter upon her apprenticeship of life and the world . 
She followed her mother , and felt her hands and arms , as she was occupied about the house and her disposition to imitate , led her to repeat everything herself . 
She even learned to sew a little , and to knit . 
'At this time , I was so fortunate as to hear of the child , and immediately hastened to Hanover to see her . 
I found her with a well formed figure a strongly marked , nervous sanguine temperament a large and beautifully shaped head and the whole system in healthy action . 
The parents were easily induced to consent to her coming to Boston , and on the th of October , , they brought her to the Institution . 
The former would have been easy , but very ineffectual the latter seemed very difficult , but , if accomplished , very effectual . 
I determined therefore to try the latter . 
'The first experiments were made by taking articles in common use , such as knives , forks , spoons , keys , c . 
, and pasting upon them labels with their names printed in raised letters . 
'Then small detached labels , with the same words printed upon them , were put into her hands and she soon observed that they were similar to the ones pasted on the articles . 
She showed her perception of this similarity by laying the label KEY upon the key , and the label SPOON upon the spoon . 
She was encouraged here by the natural sign of approbation , patting on the head . 
'The same process was then repeated with all the articles which she could handle and she very easily learned to place the proper labels upon them . 
It was evident , however , that the only intellectual exercise was that of imitation and memory . 
then they were mixed up in a heap and a sign was made for her to arrange them herself so as to express the words BOOK , KEY , c . 
'Hitherto , the process had been mechanical , and the success about as great as teaching a very knowing dog a variety of tricks . 
'The result thus far , is quickly related , and easily conceived but not so was the process for many weeks of apparently unprofitable labour were passed before it was effected . 
She accomplished this speedily and easily , for her intellect had begun to work in aid of her teacher , and her progress was rapid . 
'At the end of the year a report of her case was made , from which the following is an extract . 
Thus her mind dwells in darkness and stillness , as profound as that of a closed tomb at midnight . 
She never seems to repine , but has all the buoyancy and gaiety of childhood . 
She is fond of fun and frolic , and when playing with the rest of the children , her shrill laugh sounds loudest of the group . 
There are questions and answers , exchanges of joy or sorrow , there are kissings and partings , just as between little children with all their senses . 
'During this year , and six months after she had left home , her mother came to visit her , and the scene of their meeting was an interesting one . 
'The mother stood some time , gazing with overflowing eyes upon her unfortunate child , who , all unconscious of her presence , was playing about the room . 
'The mother now sought to caress her , but poor Laura repelled her , preferring to be with her acquaintances . 
'The subsequent parting between them , showed alike the affection , the intelligence , and the resolution of the child . 
This unamiable part of her character has been more strongly developed during the past year . 
She takes advantage of them , and makes them wait upon her , in a manner that she knows she could not exact of others and in various ways shows her Saxon blood . 
'She is fond of having other children noticed and caressed by the teachers , and those whom she respects but this must not be carried too far , or she becomes jealous . 
She has been known to sit for half an hour , holding a book before her sightless eyes , and moving her lips , as she has observed seeing people do when reading . 
'In her intellectual character it is pleasing to observe an insatiable thirst for knowledge , and a quick perception of the relations of things . 
Such are a few fragments from the simple but most interesting and instructive history of Laura Bridgman . 
The name of her great benefactor and friend , who writes it , is Dr . 
There are not many persons , I hope and believe , who , after reading these passages , can ever hear that name with indifference . 
A further account has been published by Dr . 
Howe , since the report from which I have just quoted . 
It describes her rapid mental growth and improvement during twelve months more , and brings her little history down to the end of last year . 
I turned over the leaves of her Diary , and found it written in a fair legible square hand , and expressed in terms which were quite intelligible without any explanation . 
In doing so , I observed that she kept her left hand always touching , and following up , her right , in which , of course , she held the pen . 
No line was indicated by any contrivance , but she wrote straight and freely . 
Indeed her sense of touch is now so exquisite , that having been acquainted with a person once , she can recognise him or her after almost any interval . 
This gentleman had been in her company , I believe , but very seldom , and certainly had not seen her for many months . 
My hand she rejected at once , as she does that of any man who is a stranger to her . 
But she retained my wife's with evident pleasure , kissed her , and examed her dress with a girl's curiosity and interest . 
She was merry and cheerful , and showed much innocent playfulness in her intercourse with her teacher . 
It elicited from her at first , as other slight circumstances did twice or thrice during my visit , an uncouth noise which was rather painful to hear . 
But of her teacher touching her lips , she immediately desisted , and embraced her laughingly and affectionately . 
I had previously been into another chamber , where a number of blind boys were swinging , and climbing , and engaged in various sports . 
Like Laura Bridgman , this young child was deaf , and dumb , and blind . 
Howe's account of this pupil's first instruction is so very striking , and so intimately connected with Laura herself , that I cannot refrain from a short extract . 
He was then attacked by scarlet fever in four weeks became deaf in a few weeks more , blind in six months , dumb . 
'His thirst for knowledge , says Dr . 
Howe , 'proclaimed itself as soon as he entered the house , by his eager examination of everything he could feel or smell in his new location . 
'His signs were expressive and the strictly natural language , laughing , crying , sighing , kissing , embracing , c . 
he had contrived , were comprehensible such as the waving motion of his hand for the motion of a boat , the circular one for a wheel , c . 
'The first object was to break up the use of these signs and to substitute for them the use of purely arbitrary ones . 
'Profiting by the experience I had gained in the other cases , I omitted several steps of the process before employed , and commenced at once with the finger language . 
Taking , therefore , several articles having short names , such as key , cup , mug , c . 
He felt my hands eagerly with both of his , and on my repeating the process , he evidently tried to imitate the motions of my fingers . 
'He learned more than a half dozen letters in half an hour , and seemed delighted with his success , at least in gaining approbation . 
His attention then began to flag , and I commenced playing with him . 
It was evident that in all this he had merely been imitating the motions of my fingers , and placing his hand upon the key , cup , c . 
, as part of the process , without any perception of the relation between the sign and the object . 
'When he was tired with play I took him back to the table , and he was quite ready to begin again his process of imitation . 
This was evident , because , when I made the letters PIN , or PEN , or CUP , he would select the article . 
'The perception of this relation was not accompanied by that radiant flash of intelligence , and that glow of joy , which marked the delightful moment when Laura first perceived it . 
'It was now clear that he had the capacity and inclination to learn , that he was a proper subject for instruction , and needed only persevering attention . 
I therefore put him in the hands of an intelligent teacher , nothing doubting of his rapid progress . 
Well may this gentleman call that a delightful moment , in which some distant promise of her present state first gleamed upon the darkened mind of Laura Bridgman . 
For the moment , a child with eyes , among the sightless crowd , impressed me almost as painfully as the blind boy in the porch had done , two hours ago . 
Each ward in this institution is shaped like a long gallery or hall , with the dormitories of the patients opening from it on either hand . 
Here they work , read , play at skittles , and other games and when the weather does not admit of their taking exercise out of doors , pass the day together . 
I have been thus particular in describing her , because she will serve to exemplify the physician's manner of acquiring and retaining the confidence of his patients . 
Nobody else has anything whatever to do with it . 
It is a large establishment , as you see , and requires a great number of attendants . 
She lives , you observe , in the very first style . 
, and be highly amused by it . 
The nature of their several kinds of insanity was made known to me in the same way , and we left each of them in high good humour . 
In the labour department , every patient is as freely trusted with the tools of his trade as if he were a sane man . 
In the garden , and on the farm , they work with spades , rakes , and hoes . 
For amusement , they walk , run , fish , paint , read , and ride out to take the air in carriages provided for the purpose . 
The irritability , which would otherwise be expended on their own flesh , clothes , and furniture , is dissipated in these pursuits . 
They are cheerful , tranquil , and healthy . 
Once a week they have a ball , in which the Doctor and his family , with all the nurses and attendants , take an active part . 
At an early hour they all meet together for these festive purposes at eight o'clock refreshments are served and at nine they separate . 
Immense politeness and good breeding are observed throughout . 
They all take their tone from the Doctor and he moves a very Chesterfield among the company . 
It is obvious that one great feature of this system , is the inculcation and encouragement , even among such unhappy persons , of a decent self respect . 
Something of the same spirit pervades all the Institutions at South Boston . 
There is the House of Industry . 
In that branch of it , which is devoted to the reception of old or otherwise helpless paupers , these words are painted on the walls 'WORTHY OF NOTICE . 
SELF GOVERNMENT , QUIETUDE , AND PEACE , ARE BLESSINGS . 
It is not assumed and taken for granted that being there they must be evil disposed and wicked people , before whose vicious eyes it is necessary to flourish threats and harsh restraints . 
They are met at the very threshold with this mild appeal . 
All within doors is very plain and simple , as it ought to be , but arranged with a view to peace and comfort . 
In these , the better kind of paupers live . 
They have a motive for exertion and becoming pride , in the desire to make these little chambers comfortable and decent . 
The orphans and young children are in an adjoining building separate from this , but a part of the same Institution . 
Some are such little creatures , that the stairs are of Lilliputian measurement , fitted to their tiny strides . 
The same consideration for their years and weakness is expressed in their very seats , which are perfect curiosities , and look like articles of furniture for a pauper doll's house . 
The books and tasks of these smallest of scholars , were adapted , in the same judicious manner , to their childish powers . 
would have suited an English November better . 
That done , we went to see their sleeping rooms on the floor above , in which the arrangements were no less excellent and gentle than those we had seen below . 
Connected with the House of Industry , there is also an Hospital , which was in the best order , and had , I am glad to say , many beds unoccupied . 
There are two establishments for boys in this same neighbourhood . 
The other is a House of Reformation for Juvenile Offenders . 
They are both under the same roof , but the two classes of boys never come in contact . 
The Boylston boys , as may be readily supposed , have very much the advantage of the others in point of personal appearance . 
They appeared exceedingly well taught , and not better taught than fed for a more chubby looking full waistcoated set of boys , I never saw . 
The juvenile offenders had not such pleasant faces by a great deal , and in this establishment there were many boys of colour . 
, afterwards in their school , where they sang a chorus in praise of Liberty an odd , and , one would think , rather aggravating , theme for prisoners . 
These boys are divided into four classes , each denoted by a numeral , worn on a badge upon the arm . 
On the arrival of a new comer , he is put into the fourth or lowest class , and left , by good behaviour , to work his way up into the first . 
The importance of such an establishment , in every point of view , and with reference to every consideration of humanity and social policy , requires no comment . 
One other establishment closes the catalogue . 
This is the improved system of Prison Discipline which we have imported into England , and which has been in successful operation among us for some years past . 
For this very reason though , our best prisons would seem at the first glance to be better conducted than those of America . 
In an American state prison or house of correction , I found it difficult at first to persuade myself that I was really in a jail a place of ignominious punishment and endurance . 
And to this hour I very much question whether the humane boast that it is not like one , has its root in the true wisdom or philosophy of the matter . 
I hope I may not be misunderstood on this subject , for it is one in which I take a strong and deep interest . 
, and to their exposure , piecemeal , on any sign post , gate , or gibbet , that might be deemed a good elevation for the purpose . 
In contrasting her system with that which we have modelled upon it , I merely seek to show that with all its drawbacks , ours has some advantages of its own . 
The prisoners wear a parti coloured dress and those who are sentenced to hard labour , work at nail making , or stone cutting . 
When I was there , the latter class of labourers were employed upon the stone for a new custom house in course of erection at Boston . 
who had not acquired the art within the prison gates . 
The women , all in one large room , were employed in making light clothing , for New Orleans and the Southern States . 
They did their work in silence like the men and like them were over looked by the person contracting for their labour , or by some agent of his appointment . 
In addition to this , they are every moment liable to be visited by the prison officers appointed for that purpose . 
The arrangements for cooking , washing of clothes , and so forth , are much upon the plan of those I have seen at home . 
differs from ours , and is both simple and effective . 
, the moment he appears outside , and steps into that one of the five galleries on which it is situated , he must be plainly and fully visible to the officer below . 
Each of these cells holds a small truckle bed , in which one prisoner sleeps never more . 
The whole of this arrangement struck me as being admirable and I hope that the next new prison we erect in England may be built on this plan . 
, there is no such thing as a wig or gown connected with the administration of justice . 
are no more removed from their clients than attorneys in our Court for the Relief of Insolvent Debtors are , from theirs . 
The jury are quite at home , and make themselves as comfortable as circumstances will permit . 
I could not but notice these differences , when I visited the courts at Boston . 
I was much surprised at first , too , to observe that the counsel who interrogated the witness under examination at the time , did so SITTING . 
In every Court , ample and commodious provision is made for the accommodation of the citizens . 
This is the case all through America . 
In every Public Institution , the right of the people to attend , and to have an interest in the proceedings , is most fully and distinctly recognised . 
There are no grim door keepers to dole out their tardy civility by the sixpenny worth nor is there , I sincerely believe , any insolence of office of any kind . 
Nothing national is exhibited for money and no public officer is a showman . 
We have begun of late years to imitate this good example . 
I hope we shall continue to do so and that in the fulness of time , even deans and chapters may be converted . 
In the civil court an action was trying , for damages sustained in some accident upon a railway . 
The witnesses had been examined , and counsel was addressing the jury . 
was desperately long winded , and had a remarkable capacity of saying the same thing over and over again . 
His great theme was 'Warren the ENGINE driver , whom he pressed into the service of every sentence he uttered . 
In the prisoner's cell , waiting to be examined by the magistrate on a charge of theft , was a boy . 
I am by no means a wholesale admirer of our legal solemnities , many of which impress me as being exceedingly ludicrous . 
These institutions were established , no doubt , upon the principle that those who had so large a share in making the laws , would certainly respect them . 
The tone of society in Boston is one of perfect politeness , courtesy , and good breeding . 
The ladies are unquestionably very beautiful in face but there I am compelled to stop . 
Their education is much as with us neither better nor worse . 
I had heard some very marvellous stories in this respect but not believing them , was not disappointed . 
Blue ladies there are , in Boston but like philosophers of that colour and sex in most other latitudes , they rather desire to be thought superior than to be so . 
Evangelical ladies there are , likewise , whose attachment to the forms of religion , and horror of theatrical entertainments , are most exemplary . 
Ladies who have a passion for attending lectures are to be found among all classes and all conditions . 
In the kind of provincial life which prevails in cities such as this , the Pulpit has great influence . 
would appear to be the denouncement of all innocent and rational amusements . 
It is so at home , and it is so abroad . 
With regard to the other means of excitement , the Lecture , it has at least the merit of being always new . 
The fruits of the earth have their growth in corruption . 
Out of the rottenness of these things , there has sprung up in Boston a sect of philosophers known as Transcendentalists . 
On inquiring what this appellation might be supposed to signify , I was given to understand that whatever was unintelligible would be certainly transcendental . 
, there is much more that is true and manly , honest and bold . 
And therefore if I were a Bostonian , I think I would be a Transcendentalist . 
The only preacher I heard in Boston was Mr. Taylor , who addresses himself peculiarly to seamen , and who was once a mariner himself . 
I found his chapel down among the shipping , in one of the narrow , old , water side streets , with a gay blue flag waving freely from its roof . 
In the gallery opposite to the pulpit were a little choir of male and female singers , a violoncello , and a violin . 
The preacher already sat in the pulpit , which was raised on pillars , and ornamented behind him with painted drapery of a lively and somewhat theatrical appearance . 
Yet the general character of his countenance was pleasant and agreeable . 
The service commenced with a hymn , to which succeeded an extemporary prayer . 
Indeed if I be not mistaken , he studied their sympathies and understandings much more than the display of his own powers . 
His imagery was all drawn from the sea , and from the incidents of a seaman's life and was often remarkably good . 
From under the hatches of sin , battened down above you by the evil one . 
Another walk 'That's where you're going to , my friends . 
From the dreary , blighted wilderness of Iniquity , whose only crop is Death . 
But do they lean upon anything do they lean upon nothing , these poor seamen ? Three raps upon the Bible 'Oh yes . 
, by any preacher of that kind before . 
Such of its social customs as I have not mentioned , however , may be told in a very few words . 
The usual dinner hour is two o'clock . 
There are two theatres in Boston , of good size and construction , but sadly in want of patronage . 
The few ladies who resort to them , sit , as of right , in the front rows of the boxes . 
There too the stranger is initiated into the mysteries of Gin sling , Cock tail , Sangaree , Mint Julep , Sherry cobbler , Timber Doodle , and other rare drinks . 
A public table is laid in a very handsome hall for breakfast , and for dinner , and for supper . 
The party sitting down together to these meals will vary in number from one to two hundred sometimes more . 
There is an ordinary for ladies , and an ordinary for gentlemen . 
very bare of furniture , having no curtains to the French bedstead or to the window . 
CHAPTER IV AN AMERICAN RAILROAD . 
LOWELL AND ITS FACTORY SYSTEM BEFORE leaving Boston , I devoted one day to an excursion to Lowell . 
I made acquaintance with an American railroad , on this occasion , for the first time . 
As these works are pretty much alike all through the States , their general characteristics are easily described . 
The cars are like shabby omnibuses , but larger holding thirty , forty , fifty , people . 
The seats , instead of stretching from end to end , are placed crosswise . 
Each seat holds two persons . 
There is a long row of them on each side of the caravan , a narrow passage up the middle , and a door at both ends . 
In the centre of the carriage there is usually a stove , fed with charcoal or anthracite coal which is for the most part red hot . 
It is insufferably close and you see the hot air fluttering between yourself and any other object you may happen to look at , like the ghost of smoke . 
In the ladies' car , there are a great many gentlemen who have ladies with them . 
The conductor or check taker , or guard , or whatever he may be , wears no uniform . 
A great many newspapers are pulled out , and a few of them are read . 
Everybody talks to you , or to anybody else who hits his fancy . 
If you are an Englishman , he expects that that railroad is pretty much like an English railroad . 
If you say 'No , he says 'Yes ? , and asks in what respect they differ . 
You enumerate the heads of difference , one by one , and he says 'Yes ? to each . 
, and it is quite evident , don't believe it . 
and wherever you are going , you invariably learn that you can't get there without immense difficulty and danger , and that all the great sights are somewhere else . 
If a lady take a fancy to any male passenger's seat , the gentleman who accompanies her gives him notice of the fact , and he immediately vacates it with great politeness . 
Politics are much discussed , so are banks , so is cotton . 
When there is not , the character of the scenery is always the same . 
Although only just of age for if my recollection serve me , it has been a manufacturing town barely one and twenty years Lowell is a large , populous , thriving place . 
Those indications of its youth which first attract the eye , give it a quaintness and oddity of character which , to a visitor from the old country , is amusing enough . 
In one place , there was a new wooden church , which , having no steeple , and being yet unpainted , looked like an enormous packing case without any direction upon it . 
In another there was a large hotel , whose walls and colonnades were so crisp , and thin , and slight , that it had exactly the appearance of being built with cards . 
One would swear that every 'Bakery , 'Grocery , and 'Bookbindery , and other kind of store , took its shutters down for the first time , and started in business yesterday . 
There are several factories in Lowell , each of which belongs to what we should term a Company of Proprietors , but what they call in America a Corporation . 
I may add that I am well acquainted with our manufacturing towns in England , and have visited many mills in Manchester and elsewhere in the same manner . 
These girls , as I have said , were all well dressed and that phrase necessarily includes extreme cleanliness . 
They had serviceable bonnets , good warm cloaks , and shawls and were not above clogs and pattens . 
Moreover , there were places in the mill in which they could deposit these things without injury and there were conveniences for washing . 
They were healthy in appearance , many of them remarkably so , and had the manners and deportment of young women not of degraded brutes of burden . 
, and should have been still well pleased to look upon her . 
The rooms in which they worked , were as well ordered as themselves . 
They reside in various boarding houses near at hand . 
The owners of the mills are particularly careful to allow no persons to enter upon the possession of these houses , whose characters have not undergone the most searching and thorough inquiry . 
There are a few children employed in these factories , but not many . 
The laws of the State forbid their working more than nine months in the year , and require that they be educated during the other three . 
I am now going to state three facts , which will startle a large class of readers on this side of the Atlantic , very much . 
Firstly , there is a joint stock piano in a great many of the boarding houses . 
Secondly , nearly all these young ladies subscribe to circulating libraries . 
In reply to that objection , I would beg to ask what their station is . 
It is their station to work . 
They labour in these mills , upon an average , twelve hours a day , which is unquestionably work , and pretty tight work too . 
Perhaps it is above their station to indulge in such amusements , on any terms . 
I know no station which is rendered more endurable to the person in it , or more safe to the person out of it , by having ignorance for its associate . 
Some persons might object to the papers being signed occasionally with rather fine names , but this is an American fashion . 
One of the provinces of the state legislature of Massachusetts is to alter ugly names into pretty ones , as the children improve upon the tastes of their parents . 
These changes costing little or nothing , scores of Mary Annes are solemnly converted into Bevelinas every session . 
, he walked through three miles and a half of these young ladies all dressed out with parasols and silk stockings . 
come from other States , remain a few years in the mills , and then go home for good . 
The contrast would be a strong one , for it would be between the Good and Evil , the living light and deepest shadow . 
I abstain from it , because I deem it just to do so . 
I returned at night by the same railroad and in the same kind of car . 
the true principles on which books of travel in America should be written by Englishmen , I feigned to fall asleep . 
, are as favourable specimens of rural America , as their people are of rural Americans . 
A sharp dry wind and a slight frost had so hardened the roads when we alighted at Worcester , that their furrowed tracks were like ridges of granite . 
There was the usual aspect of newness on every object , of course . 
All the buildings looked as if they had been built and painted that morning , and could be taken down on Monday with very little trouble . 
In the keen evening air , every sharp outline looked a hundred times sharper than ever . 
The clean cardboard colonnades had no more perspective than a Chinese bridge on a tea cup , and appeared equally well calculated for use . 
So I thought , at least , that evening . 
We went on next morning , still by railroad , to Springfield . 
Fortunately , however , the winter having been unusually mild , the Connecticut River was 'open , or , in other words , not frozen . 
, and only waited for us to go on board . 
Accordingly , we went on board , with as little delay as might be . 
He was as good as his word , and started directly . 
It certainly was not called a small steamboat without reason . 
I omitted to ask the question , but I should think it must have been of about half a pony power . 
Mr. Paap , the celebrated Dwarf , might have lived and died happily in the cabin , which was fitted with common sash windows like an ordinary dwelling house . 
But even in this chamber there was a rocking chair . 
It would be impossible to get on anywhere , in America , without a rocking chair . 
It rained all day as I once thought it never did rain anywhere , but in the Highlands of Scotland . 
Nevertheless , we moved onward , dexterously and being well wrapped up , bade defiance to the weather , and enjoyed the journey . 
We tarried here , four days . 
The town is beautifully situated in a basin of green hills the soil is rich , well wooded , and carefully improved . 
As I never heard of its working that effect anywhere else , I infer that it never will , here . 
In Hartford stands the famous oak in which the charter of King Charles was hidden . 
It is now inclosed in a gentleman's garden . 
In the State House is the charter itself . 
I found the courts of law here , just the same as at Boston the public institutions almost as good . 
The Insane Asylum is admirably conducted , and so is the Institution for the Deaf and Dumb . 
Of course I limit this remark merely to their looks for the conversation of the mad people was mad enough . 
'When you last saw him , sir , he was 'Well , ma'am , said I , 'extremely well . 
He begged me to present his compliments . 
I never saw him looking better . 
At this , the old lady was very much delighted . 
and said 'I am an antediluvian , sir . 
I thought the best thing to say was , that I had suspected as much from the first . 
'It is an extremely proud and pleasant thing , sir , to be an antediluvian , said the old lady . 
'I should think it was , ma'am , I rejoined . 
The old lady kissed her hand , gave another skip , smirked and sidled down the gallery in a most extraordinary manner , and ambled gracefully into her own bed chamber . 
In another part of the building , there was a male patient in bed very much flushed and heated . 
'Well , said he , starting up , and pulling off his night cap 'It's all settled at last . 
I have arranged it with Queen Victoria . 
'Arranged what ? asked the Doctor . 
'Why , that business , passing his hand wearily across his forehead , 'about the siege of New York . 
'Oh ! said I , like a man suddenly enlightened . 
For he looked at me for an answer . 
Every house without a signal will be fired upon by the British troops . 
No harm will be done to the others . 
Those that want to be safe , must hoist flags . 
That's all they'll have to do . 
Even while he was speaking he seemed , I thought , to have some faint idea that his talk was incoherent . 
Directly he had said these words , he lay down again gave a kind of a groan and covered his hot head with the blankets . 
There was another a young man , whose madness was love and music . 
After playing on the accordion a march he had composed , he was very anxious that I should walk into his chamber , which I immediately did . 
'I come here just for a whim , he said coolly . 
'Oh ! That's all ! said I. 'Yes . 
The Doctor's a smart man . 
He quite enters into it . 
It's a joke of mine . 
I like it for a time . 
You needn't mention it , but I think I shall go out next Tuesday ! I assured him that I would consider our interview perfectly confidential and rejoined the Doctor . 
'I think I remember having had a few interviews like that , with ladies out of doors . 
I hope SHE is not mad ? 'Yes . 
'On what subject ? Autographs ? 'No . 
She hears voices in the air . 
In this place , there is the best jail for untried offenders in the world . 
It contained at that time about two hundred prisoners . 
A woman , too , was pointed out to me , who , for the murder of her husband , had been a close prisoner for sixteen years . 
'To be sure she has . 
'She has no chance of obtaining it , I suppose ? 'Well , I don't know which , by the bye , is a national answer . 
'What have THEY to do with it ? I naturally inquired . 
'Well , they won't petition . 
'Does that ever do it ? 'Why yes , that'll do it sometimes . 
Political friends'll do it sometimes . 
It's pretty often done , one way or another . 
I shall always entertain a very pleasant and grateful recollection of Hartford . 
It is a lovely place , and I had many friends there , whom I can never remember with indifference . 
We left it with no little regret on the evening of Friday the th , and travelled that night by railroad to New Haven . 
, and exchanged a variety of small talk . 
We reached New Haven at about eight o'clock , after a journey of three hours , and put up for the night at the best inn . 
New Haven , known also as the City of Elms , is a fine town . 
are planted with rows of grand old elm trees and the same natural ornaments surround Yale College , an establishment of considerable eminence and reputation . 
The various departments of this Institution are erected in a kind of park or common in the middle of the town , where they are dimly visible among the shadowing trees . 
The effect is very like that of an old cathedral yard in England and when their branches are in full leaf , must be extremely picturesque . 
After a night's rest , we rose early , and in good time went down to the wharf , and on board the packet New York FOR New York . 
This was the first American steamboat of any size that I had seen and certainly to an English eye it was infinitely less like a steamboat than a huge floating bath . 
Being in America , too , which our vagabonds do so particularly favour , it seemed the more probable . 
A part of the machinery is always above this deck where the connecting rod , in a strong and lofty frame , is seen working away like an iron top sawyer . 
There is seldom any mast or tackle nothing aloft but two tall black chimneys . 
and the passengers , unless the weather be very fine indeed , usually congregate below . 
Directly you have left the wharf , all the life , and stir , and bustle of a packet cease . 
, and has three or four tiers of berths on each side . 
When I first descended into the cabin of the New York , it looked , in my unaccustomed eyes , about as long as the Burlington Arcade . 
The Sound which has to be crossed on this passage , is not always a very safe or pleasant navigation , and has been the scene of some unfortunate accidents . 
It was a wet morning , and very misty , and we soon lost sight of land . 
The day was calm , however , and brightened towards noon . 
the larder , and the stock of bottled beer , I lay down to sleep being very much tired with the fatigues of yesterday . 
We were now in a narrow channel , with sloping banks on either side , besprinkled with pleasant villas , and made refreshing to the sight by turf and trees . 
a jail and other buildings and so emerged into a noble bay , whose waters sparkled in the now cloudless sunshine like Nature's eyes turned up to Heaven . 
Beyond , were shining heights , and islands in the glancing river , and a distance scarcely less blue and bright than the sky it seemed to meet . 
The city's hum and buzz , the clinking of capstans , the ringing of bells , the barking of dogs , the clattering of wheels , tingled in the listening ear . 
No stint of omnibuses here ! Half a dozen have gone by within as many minutes . 
Some southern republican that , who puts his blacks in uniform , and swells with Sultan pomp and power . 
Heaven save the ladies , how they dress ! We have seen more colours in these ten minutes , than we should have seen elsewhere , in as many days . 
It would be hard to keep your model republics going , without the countrymen and countrywomen of those two labourers . 
Their way lies yonder , but what business takes them there ? They carry savings to hoard up ? No. They are brothers , those men . 
One crossed the sea alone , and working very hard for one half year , and living harder , saved funds enough to bring the other out . 
This narrow thoroughfare , baking and blistering in the sun , is Wall Street the Stock Exchange and Lombard Street of New York . 
Many a rapid fortune has been made in this street , and many a no less rapid ruin . 
Fine streets of spacious houses here , you see ! Wall Street has furnished and dismantled many of them very often and here a deep green leafy square . 
Again across Broadway , and so passing from the many coloured crowd and glittering shops into another long main street , the Bowery . 
A railroad yonder , see , where two stout horses trot along , drawing a score or two of people and a great wooden ark , with ease . 
The stores are poorer here the passengers less gay . 
Clothes ready made , and meat ready cooked , are to be bought in these parts and the lively whirl of carriages is exchanged for the deep rumble of carts and waggons . 
They tempt the hungry most at night , for then dull candles glimmering inside , illuminate these dainty words , and make the mouths of idlers water , as they read and linger . 
What is this dismal fronted pile of bastard Egyptian , like an enchanter's palace in a melodrama ! a famous prison , called The Tombs . 
Shall we go in ? So . 
A long , narrow , lofty building , stove heated as usual , with four galleries , one above the other , going round it , and communicating by stairs . 
Between the two sides of each gallery , and in its centre , a bridge , for the greater convenience of crossing . 
On each of these bridges sits a man dozing or reading , or talking to an idle companion . 
On each tier , are two opposite rows of small iron doors . 
They look like furnace doors , but are cold and black , as though the fires within had all gone out . 
Some two or three are open , and women , with drooping heads bent down , are talking to the inmates . 
The whole is lighted by a skylight , but it is fast closed and from the roof there dangle , limp and drooping , two useless windsails . 
A man with keys appears , to show us round . 
A good looking fellow , and , in his way , civil and obliging . 
'Are those black doors the cells ? 'Yes . 
'Are they all full ? 'Well , they're pretty nigh full , and that's a fact , and no two ways about it . 
'Those at the bottom are unwholesome , surely ? 'Why , we DO only put coloured people in 'em . 
'When do the prisoners take exercise ? 'Well , they do without it pretty much . 
'Do they never walk in the yard ? 'Considerable seldom . 
'Sometimes , I suppose ? 'Well , it's rare they do . 
They keep pretty bright without it . 
'But suppose a man were here for a twelvemonth . 
'Do you mean to say that in all that time he would never come out at that little iron door , for exercise ? 'He might walk some , perhaps not much . 
'Will you open one of the doors ? 'All , if you like . 
The fastenings jar and rattle , and one of the doors turns slowly on its hinges . 
A small bare cell , into which the light enters through a high chink in the wall . 
There is a rude means of washing , a table , and a bedstead . 
Upon the latter , sits a man of sixty reading . 
He looks up for a moment gives an impatient dogged shake and fixes his eyes upon his book again . 
As we withdraw our heads , the door closes on him , and is fastened as before . 
This man has murdered his wife , and will probably be hanged . 
'How long has he been here ? 'A month . 
'When will he be tried ? 'Next term . 
'When is that ? 'Next month . 
'In England , if a man be under sentence of death , even he has air and exercise at certain periods of the day . 
Some of the women peep anxiously through it at the sound of footsteps others shrink away in shame . 
But it is a dreadful place for the child to pass the long days and nights in . 
I have a question to ask him as we go . 
'Pray , why do they call this place The Tombs ? 'Well , it's the cant name . 
Why ? 'Some suicides happened here , when it was first built . 
I expect it come about from that . 
'I saw just now , that that man's clothes were scattered about the floor of his cell . 
Don't you oblige the prisoners to be orderly , and put such things away ? 'Where should they put 'em ? 'Not on the ground surely . 
What do you say to hanging them up ? He stops and looks round to emphasise his answer 'Why , I say that's just it . 
Into this narrow , grave like place , men are brought out to die . 
The law requires that there be present at this dismal spectacle , the judge , the jury , and citizens to the amount of twenty five . 
From the community it is hidden . 
To the dissolute and bad , the thing remains a frightful mystery . 
Between the criminal and them , the prison wall is interposed as a thick gloomy veil . 
It is the curtain to his bed of death , his winding sheet , and grave . 
From him it shuts out life , and all the motives to unrepenting hardihood in that last hour , which its mere sight and presence is often all sufficient to sustain . 
There are no bold eyes to make him bold no ruffians to uphold a ruffian's name before . 
All beyond the pitiless stone wall , is unknown space . 
Let us go forth again into the cheerful streets . 
We are going to cross here . 
Take care of the pigs . 
Two portly sows are trotting up behind this carriage , and a select party of half a dozen gentlemen hogs have just now turned the corner . 
Here is a solitary swine lounging homeward by himself . 
He has only one ear having parted with the other to vagrant dogs in the course of his city rambles . 
But he gets on very well without it and leads a roving , gentlemanly , vagabond kind of life , somewhat answering to that of our club men at home . 
He is a great philosopher , and seldom moved , unless by the dogs before mentioned . 
They are the city scavengers , these pigs . 
Ugly brutes they are having , for the most part , scanty brown backs , like the lids of old horsehair trunks spotted with unwholesome black blotches . 
They are never attended upon , or fed , or driven , or caught , but are thrown upon their own resources in early life , and become preternaturally knowing in consequence . 
Every pig knows where he lives , much better than anybody could tell him . 
At this hour , just as evening is closing in , you will see them roaming towards bed by scores , eating their way to the last . 
The streets and shops are lighted now and as the eye travels down the long thoroughfare , dotted with bright jets of gas , it is reminded of Oxford Street , or Piccadilly . 
But how quiet the streets are ! Are there no itinerant bands no wind or stringed instruments ? No , not one . 
By day , are there no Punches , Fantoccini , Dancing dogs , Jugglers , Conjurers , Orchestrinas , or even Barrel organs ? No , not one . 
Yes , I remember one . 
One barrel organ and a dancing monkey sportive by nature , but fast fading into a dull , lumpish monkey , of the Utilitarian school . 
Beyond that , nothing lively no , not so much as a white mouse in a twirling cage . 
Are there no amusements ? Yes . 
There is a lecture room across the way , from which that glare of light proceeds , and there may be evening service for the ladies thrice a week , or oftener . 
For the young gentlemen , there is the counting house , the store , the bar room the latter , as you may see through these windows , pretty full . 
So true it is , that certain pursuits , wherever carried on , will stamp men with the same character . 
These two might have been begotten , born , and bred , in Bow Street . 
We have seen no beggars in the streets by night or day but of other kinds of strollers , plenty . 
Poverty , wretchedness , and vice , are rife enough where we are going now . 
This is the place these narrow ways , diverging to the right and left , and reeking everywhere with dirt and filth . 
Such lives as are led here , bear the same fruits here as elsewhere . 
The coarse and bloated faces at the doors , have counterparts at home , and all the wide world over . 
Debauchery has made the very houses prematurely old . 
See how the rotten beams are tumbling down , and how the patched and broken windows seem to scowl dimly , like eyes that have been hurt in drunken frays . 
Many of those pigs live here . 
Among the pigeon holes that hold the bottles , are pieces of plate glass and coloured paper , for there is , in some sort , a taste for decoration , even here . 
What place is this , to which the squalid street conducts us ? A kind of square of leprous houses , some of which are attainable only by crazy wooden stairs without . 
Beside it , sits a man his elbows on his knees his forehead hidden in his hands . 
'What ails that man ? asks the foremost officer . 
'Fever , he sullenly replies , without looking up . 
He stumbles down the stairs and presently comes back , shading a flaring taper with his hand . 
into the housetop where the bare beams and rafters meet overhead , and calm night looks down through the crevices in the roof . 
Open the door of one of these cramped hutches full of sleeping negroes . 
Where dogs would howl to lie , women , and men , and boys slink off to sleep , forcing the dislodged rats to move away in quest of better lodgings . 
Shall we go in ? It is but a moment . 
Heyday ! the landlady of Almack's thrives ! A buxom fat mulatto woman , with sparkling eyes , whose head is daintily ornamented with a handkerchief of many colours . 
How glad he is to see us ! What will we please to call for ? A dance ? It shall be done directly , sir 'a regular break down . 
The corpulent black fiddler , and his friend who plays the tambourine , stamp upon the boarding of the small raised orchestra in which they sit , and play a lively measure . 
Five or six couple come upon the floor , marshalled by a lively young negro , who is the wit of the assembly , and the greatest dancer known . 
He never leaves off making queer faces , and is the delight of all the rest , who grin from ear to ear incessantly . 
Here are The Tombs once more . 
The city watch house is a part of the building . 
It follows naturally on the sights we have just left . 
Let us see that , and then to bed . 
He has had five and twenty young women locked up in this very cell at one time , and you'd hardly realise what handsome faces there were among 'em . 
Are people really left all night , untried , in those black sties ? Every night . 
The watch is set at seven in the evening . 
The magistrate opens his court at five in the morning . 
That is the earliest hour at which the first prisoner can be released and if an officer appear against him , he is not taken out till nine o'clock or ten . 
What is this intolerable tolling of great bells , and crashing of wheels , and shouting in the distance ? A fire . 
And what that deep red light in the opposite direction ? Another fire . 
And what these charred and blackened walls we stand before ? A dwelling where a fire has been . 
So , carrying that with us for our comfort , let us say , Good night , and climb up stairs to bed . 
One day , during my stay in New York , I paid a visit to the different public institutions on Long Island , or Rhode Island I forget which . 
One of them is a Lunatic Asylum . 
The building is handsome and is remarkable for a spacious and elegant staircase . 
The whole structure is not yet finished , but it is already one of considerable size and extent , and is capable of accommodating a very large number of patients . 
I cannot say that I derived much comfort from the inspection of this charity . 
In the dining room , a bare , dull , dreary place , with nothing for the eye to rest on but the empty walls , a woman was locked up alone . 
She was bent , they told me , on committing suicide . 
If anything could have strengthened her in her resolution , it would certainly have been the insupportable monotony of such an existence . 
At a short distance from this building is another called the Alms House , that is to say , the workhouse of New York . 
This is a large Institution also lodging , I believe , when I was there , nearly a thousand poor . 
It was badly ventilated , and badly lighted was not too clean and impressed me , on the whole , very uncomfortably . 
Nor must it be forgotten that New York is a large town , and that in all large towns a vast amount of good and evil is intermixed and jumbled up together . 
In the same neighbourhood is the Farm , where young orphans are nursed and bred . 
They took me , by the same conveyance , to the jail itself . 
It is an old prison , and quite a pioneer establishment , on the plan I have already described . 
I was glad to hear this , for it is unquestionably a very indifferent one . 
The most is made , however , of the means it possesses , and it is as well regulated as such a place can be . 
The women work in covered sheds , erected for that purpose . 
If I remember right , there are no shops for the men , but be that as it may , the greater part of them labour in certain stone quarries near at hand . 
The day being very wet indeed , this labour was suspended , and the prisoners were in their cells . 
and this one flung down in a heap upon the ground , with his head against the bars , like a wild beast . 
Make the rain pour down , outside , in torrents . 
Put the everlasting stove in the midst hot , and suffocating , and vaporous , as a witch's cauldron . 
The prison for the State at Sing Sing is , on the other hand , a model jail . 
That , and Auburn , are , I believe , the largest and best examples of the silent system . 
Its design , it will be seen , is similar to that at Boston and it is a no less meritorious and admirable establishment . 
, and charities of every sort and kind . 
In the suburbs there is a spacious cemetery unfinished yet , but every day improving . 
The saddest tomb I saw there was 'The Strangers' Grave . 
Dedicated to the different hotels in this city . 
There are three principal theatres . 
Two of them , the Park and the Bowery , are large , elegant , and handsome buildings , and are , I grieve to write it , generally deserted . 
The third , the Olympic , is a tiny show box for vaudevilles and burlesques . 
It is singularly well conducted by Mr. Mitchell , a comic actor of great quiet humour and originality , who is well remembered and esteemed by London playgoers . 
I am happy to report of this deserving gentleman , that his benches are usually well filled , and that his theatre rings with merriment every night . 
The country round New York is surpassingly and exquisitely picturesque . 
The climate , as I have already intimated , is somewhat of the warmest . 
What it would be , without the sea breezes which come from its beautiful Bay in the evening time , I will not throw myself or my readers into a fever by inquiring . 
The ladies are singularly beautiful . 
CHAPTER VII PHILADELPHIA , AND ITS SOLITARY PRISON THE journey from New York to Philadelphia , is made by railroad , and two ferries and usually occupies between five and six hours . 
I mention the circumstance here , thinking it probable that this is the first occasion on which the valuable medicine in question was ever used as a conversational aperient . 
We reached the city , late that night . 
I hastened to inquire its name and purpose , and then my surprise vanished . 
It was the Tomb of many fortunes the Great Catacomb of investment the memorable United States Bank . 
a gloom on Philadelphia , under the depressing effect of which it yet laboured . 
It certainly did seem rather dull and out of spirits . 
It is a handsome city , but distractingly regular . 
After walking about it for an hour or two , I felt that I would have given the world for a crooked street . 
The collar of my coat appeared to stiffen , and the brim of my bat to expand , beneath its quakery influence . 
Philadelphia is most bountifully provided with fresh water , which is showered and jerked about , and turned on , and poured off , everywhere . 
There are various public institutions . 
In connection with the quaker Hospital , there is a picture by West , which is exhibited for the benefit of the funds of the institution . 
The subject is , our Saviour healing the sick , and it is , perhaps , as favourable a specimen of the master as can be seen anywhere . 
Whether this be high or low praise , depends upon the reader's taste . 
In the same room , there is a very characteristic and life like portrait by Mr. Sully , a distinguished American artist . 
My stay in Philadelphia was very short , but what I saw of its society , I greatly liked . 
In the outskirts , stands a great prison , called the Eastern Penitentiary conducted on a plan peculiar to the state of Pennsylvania . 
The system here , is rigid , strict , and hopeless solitary confinement . 
I believe it , in its effects , to be cruel and wrong . 
I was accompanied to this prison by two gentlemen officially connected with its management , and passed the day in going from cell to cell , and talking with the inmates . 
Every facility was afforded me , that the utmost courtesy could suggest . 
Nothing was concealed or hidden from my view , and every piece of information that I sought , was openly and frankly given . 
Between the body of the prison and the outer wall , there is a spacious garden . 
On either side of each , is a long , long row of low cell doors , with a certain number over every one . 
, and are somewhat smaller . 
Standing at the central point , and looking down these dreary passages , the dull repose and quiet that prevails , is awful . 
He never hears of wife and children home or friends the life or death of any single creature . 
He sees the prison officers , but with that exception he never looks upon a human countenance , or hears a human voice . 
He is a man buried alive to be dug out in the slow round of years and in the mean time dead to everything but torturing anxieties and horrible despair . 
His name , and crime , and term of suffering , are unknown , even to the officer who delivers him his daily food . 
Every cell has double doors the outer one of sturdy oak , the other of grated iron , wherein there is a trap through which his food is handed . 
He has a Bible , and a slate and pencil , and , under certain restrictions , has sometimes other books , provided for the purpose , and pen and ink and paper . 
His razor , plate , and can , and basin , hang upon the wall , or shine upon the little shelf . 
Fresh water is laid on in every cell , and he can draw it at his pleasure . 
During the day , his bedstead turns up against the wall , and leaves more space for him to work in . 
His loom , or bench , or wheel , is there and there he labours , sleeps and wakes , and counts the seasons as they change , and grows old . 
The first man I saw , was seated at his loom , at work . 
He had been there six years , and was to remain , I think , three more . 
He had been convicted as a receiver of stolen goods , but even after his long imprisonment , denied his guilt , and said he had been hardly dealt by . 
It was his second offence . 
He wore a paper hat of his own making , and was pleased to have it noticed and commanded . 
He had very ingeniously manufactured a sort of Dutch clock from some disregarded odds and ends and his vinegar bottle served for the pendulum . 
He had extracted some colours from the yarn with which he worked , and painted a few poor figures on the wall . 
One , of a female , over the door , he called 'The Lady of the Lake . 
I forget how it came about , but some allusion was made to his having a wife . 
He shook his head at the word , turned aside , and covered his face with his hands . 
'But you are resigned now ! said one of the gentlemen after a short pause , during which he had resumed his former manner . 
He answered with a sigh that seemed quite reckless in its hopelessness , 'Oh yes , oh yes ! I am resigned to it . 
'And are a better man , you think ? 'Well , I hope so I'm sure I hope I may be . 
A moment afterwards he sighed heavily , put on his spectacles , and went about his work again . 
In another cell , there was a German , sentenced to five years' imprisonment for larceny , two of which had just expired . 
With colours procured in the same manner , he had painted every inch of the walls and ceiling quite beautifully . 
The taste and ingenuity he had displayed in everything were most extraordinary and yet a more dejected , heart broken , wretched creature , it would be difficult to imagine . 
I never saw such a picture of forlorn affliction and distress of mind . 
I never saw or heard of any kind of misery that impressed me more than the wretchedness of this man . 
In a third cell , was a tall , strong black , a burglar , working at his proper trade of making screws and the like . 
His time was nearly out . 
He was not only a very dexterous thief , but was notorious for his boldness and hardihood , and for the number of his previous convictions . 
There was one man who was allowed , as an indulgence , to keep rabbits . 
His room having rather a close smell in consequence , they called to him at the door to come out into the passage . 
, and 'the maddening wine cup , and his friends at home . 
There were very many of them . 
Some reddened at the sight of visitors , and some turned very pale . 
Sitting upon the stairs , engaged in some slight work , was a pretty coloured boy . 
'Is there no refuge for young criminals in Philadelphia , then ? said I. 'Yes , but only for white children . 
Noble aristocracy in crime There was a sailor who had been there upwards of eleven years , and who in a few months' time would be free . 
Eleven years of solitary confinement ! 'I am very glad to hear your time is nearly out . 
What does he say ? Nothing . 
It is his humour to be a helpless , crushed , and broken man . 
In the silence and solitude of their lives they had grown to be quite beautiful . 
Their looks were very sad , and might have moved the sternest visitor to tears , but not to that kind of sorrow which the contemplation of the men awakens . 
and had a mind at peace . 
'In a word , you are happy here ? said one of my companions . 
But let me pass them by , for one , more pleasant , glance of a prison on the same plan which I afterwards saw at Pittsburg . 
When I had gone over that , in the same manner , I asked the governor if he had any person in his charge who was shortly going out . 
He had one , he said , whose time was up next day but he had only been a prisoner two years . 
I have the face of this man , who was going to be released next day , before me now . 
It is almost more memorable in its happiness than the other faces in their misery . 
'Well , it's not so much a trembling , was the answer 'though they do quiver as a complete derangement of the nervous system . 
This is when they're in the office , where they are taken with the hood on , as they were brought in . 
When they get outside the gate , they stop , and look first one way and then the other not knowing which to take . 
Sometimes they stagger as if they were drunk , and sometimes are forced to lean against the fence , they're so bad but they clear off in course of time . 
As I walked among these solitary cells , and looked at the faces of the men within them , I tried to picture to myself the thoughts and feelings natural to their condition . 
I imagined the hood just taken off , and the scene of their captivity disclosed to them in all its dismal monotony . 
At first , the man is stunned . 
His confinement is a hideous vision and his old life a reality . 
He throws himself upon his bed , and lies there abandoned to despair . 
Again he falls upon his bed , and lies there , moaning . 
Suddenly he starts up , wondering whether any other man is near whether there is another cell like that on either side of him and listens keenly . 
There is no sound , but other prisoners may be near for all that . 
He has no idea of the face , but he is certain of the dark form of a stooping man . 
In the cell upon the other side , he puts another figure , whose face is hidden from him also . 
Day after day , and often when he wakes up in the middle of the night , he thinks of these two men until he is almost distracted . 
Every morning when he wakes , he hides his head beneath the coverlet , and shudders to see the ghastly ceiling looking down upon him . 
The blessed light of day itself peeps in , an ugly phantom face , through the unchangeable crevice which is his prison window . 
By slow but sure degrees , the terrors of that hateful corner swell until they beset him at all times invade his rest , make his dreams hideous , and his nights dreadful . 
Then he began to fear it , then to dream of it , and of men whispering its name and pointing to it . 
Then he could not bear to look at it , nor yet to turn his back upon it . 
When he is in his cell by day , he fears the little yard without . 
When he is in the yard , he dreads to re enter the cell . 
When night comes , there stands the phantom in the corner . 
, it broods upon his bed . 
Again , by slow degrees , these horrible fancies depart from him one by one returning sometimes , unexpectedly , but at longer intervals , and in less alarming shapes . 
He dreams now , sometimes , of his children or his wife , but is sure that they are dead , or have deserted him . 
He is easily moved to tears is gentle , submissive , and broken spirited . 
If his period of confinement have been very long , the prospect of release bewilders and confuses him . 
The cell door has been closed too long on all its hopes and cares . 
Better to have hanged him in the beginning than bring him to this pass , and send him forth to mingle with his kind , who are his kind no more . 
On the haggard face of every man among these prisoners , the same expression sat . 
I know not what to liken it to . 
In every little chamber that I entered , and at every grate through which I looked , I seemed to see the same appalling countenance . 
It lives in my memory , with the fascination of a remarkable picture . 
Parade before my eyes , a hundred men , with one among them newly released from this solitary suffering , and I would point him out . 
The faces of the women , as I have said , it humanises and refines . 
That the punishment is nevertheless , to my thinking , fully as cruel and as wrong in their case , as in that of the men , I need scarcely add . 
It is my fixed opinion that those who have undergone this punishment , MUST pass into society again morally unhealthy and diseased . 
But no argument in favour of the system , can reasonably be deduced from this circumstance , although it is very often urged . 
This is a common case . 
That it makes the senses dull , and by degrees impairs the bodily faculties , I am quite sure . 
I remarked to those who were with me in this very establishment at Philadelphia , that the criminals who had been there long , were deaf . 
They , who were in the habit of seeing these men constantly , were perfectly amazed at the idea , which they regarded as groundless and fanciful . 
instantly , and said , with a genuine air it was impossible to doubt , that he couldn't think how it happened , but he WAS growing very dull of hearing . 
That it is a singularly unequal punishment , and affects the worst man least , there is no doubt . 
With regard to such men as the negro burglar and the English thief , even the most enthusiastic have scarcely any hope of their conversion . 
At one of the periodical meetings of the inspectors of this prison , a working man of Philadelphia presented himself before the Board , and earnestly requested to be placed in solitary confinement . 
Let us shut him up . 
He will soon be glad to go away , and then we shall get rid of him . 
These conditions agreed upon , and he still remaining in the same mind , he was conducted to the prison , and shut up in one of the cells . 
AND THE PRESIDENT'S HOUSE WE left Philadelphia by steamboat , at six o'clock one very cold morning , and turned our faces towards Washington . 
who were settled in America , and were travelling on their own affairs . 
Of all grades and kinds of men that jostle one in the public conveyances of the States , these are often the most intolerable and the most insufferable companions . 
In all the public places of America , this filthy custom is recognised . 
But in some parts , this custom is inseparably mixed up with every meal and morning call , and with all the transactions of social life . 
The stranger , who follows in the track I took myself , will find it in its full bloom and glory , luxuriant in all its alarming recklessness , at Washington . 
that previous tourists have exaggerated its extent . 
The thing itself is an exaggeration of nastiness , which cannot be outdone . 
At about nine o'clock we arrived at the railroad station , and went on by the cars . 
The water in both was blackened with flights of canvas backed ducks , which are most delicious eating , and abound hereabouts at that season of the year . 
They are startling contrivances , and are most agreeable when passed . 
We stopped to dine at Baltimore , and being now in Maryland , were waited on , for the first time , by slaves . 
After dinner , we went down to the railroad again , and took our seats in the cars for Washington . 
were seldom satisfied , even by that , but would return to the charge over and over again . 
Arrived at the hotel I saw no more of the place that night being very tired , and glad to get to bed . 
Here is Washington , fresh in my mind and under my eye . 
by furniture brokers , keepers of poor eating houses , and fanciers of birds . 
Burn the whole down build it up again in wood and plaster widen it a little throw in part of St . 
Under the window is a small stand of coaches , whose slave drivers are sunning themselves on the steps of our door , and talking idly together . 
The three most obtrusive houses near at hand are the three meanest . 
On one a shop , which never has anything in the window , and never has the door open is painted in large characters , 'THE CITY LUNCH . 
At another , which looks like a backway to somewhere else , but is an independent building in itself , oysters are procurable in every style . 
At the third , which is a very , very little tailor's shop , pants are fixed to order or in other words , pantaloons are made to measure . 
And that is our street in Washington . 
One might fancy the season over , and most of the houses gone out of town for ever with their masters . 
Such as it is , it is likely to remain . 
The principal features of the Capitol , are , of course , the two houses of Assembly . 
Four of these have for their subjects prominent events in the revolutionary struggle . 
They were painted by Colonel Trumbull , himself a member of Washington's staff at the time of their occurrence from which circumstance they derive a peculiar interest of their own . 
In this same hall Mr. Greenough's large statue of Washington has been lately placed . 
It has great merits of course , but it struck me as being rather strained and violent for its subject . 
I could wish , however , to have seen it in a better light than it can ever be viewed in , where it stands . 
Poor Justice ! she has been made to wear much stranger garments in America than those she pines in , in the Capitol . 
The House of Representatives is a beautiful and spacious hall , of semicircular shape , supported by handsome pillars . 
One part of the gallery is appropriated to the ladies , and there they sit in front rows , and come in , and go out , as at a play or concert . 
It is an elegant chamber to look at , but a singularly bad one for all purposes of hearing . 
The Senate , which is smaller , is free from this objection , and is exceedingly well adapted to the uses for which it is designed . 
The sittings , I need hardly add , take place in the day and the parliamentary forms are modelled on those of the old country . 
As I must , at whatever hazard , repeat the avowal here , I will follow it up by relating my impressions on this subject in as few words as possible . 
I have borne the House of Commons like a man , and have yielded to no weakness , but slumber , in the House of Lords . 
There he sat , among them not crushed by the general feeling of the assembly , but as good a man as any . 
to the music of clanking chains and bloody stripes . 
Where sat the many legislators of coarse threats of words and blows such as coalheavers deal upon each other , when they forget their breeding ? On every side . 
Every session had its anecdotes of that kind , and the actors were all there . 
That there are , among the representatives of the people in both Houses , and among all parties , some men of high character and great abilities , I need not say . 
I visited both houses nearly every day , during my stay in Washington . 
On my initiatory visit to the House of Representatives , they divided against a decision of the chair but the chair won . 
But interruptions are rare the speaker being usually heard in silence . 
The Senate is a dignified and decorous body , and its proceedings are conducted with much gravity and order . 
mistook the closed sash for the open window , at three . 
The elegant structure in which they are arranged is one of design rather than execution , for there is but one side erected out of four , though the works are stopped . 
The Post Office is a very compact and very beautiful building . 
I confess that I looked upon this as a very painful exhibition , and one by no means flattering to the national standard of honesty and honour . 
At George Town , in the suburbs , there is a Jesuit College delightfully situated , and , so far as I had an opportunity of seeing , well managed . 
The heights of this neighbourhood , above the Potomac River , are very picturesque and are free , I should conceive , from some of the insalubrities of Washington . 
The air , at that elevation , was quite cool and refreshing , when in the city it was burning hot . 
The President's mansion is more like an English club house , both within and without , than any other kind of establishment with which I can compare it . 
The greater portion of this assemblage were rather asserting their supremacy than doing anything else , as they had no particular business there , that anybody knew of . 
had not made away with any of the furniture , or sold the fixtures for his private benefit . 
We had previously looked into another chamber fitted all round with a great , bare , wooden desk or counter , whereon lay files of newspapers , to which sundry gentlemen were referring . 
There were some fifteen or twenty persons in the room . 
A fourth did nothing but whistle . 
A fifth did nothing but spit . 
I thought that in his whole carriage and demeanour , he became his station singularly well . 
I went , with my wife , at about ten . 
But there was no confusion or disorder . 
The suite of rooms on the ground floor were lighted up , and a military band was playing in the hall . 
One gentleman who stood among this group , appeared to take upon himself the functions of a master of the ceremonies . 
I saw no other officers or attendants , and none were needed . 
The great drawing room , which I have already mentioned , and the other chambers on the ground floor , were crowded to excess . 
I had at first intended going South to Charleston . 
CHAPTER IX A NIGHT STEAMER ON THE POTOMAC RIVER . 
VIRGINIA ROAD , AND A BLACK DRIVER . 
THE HARRISBURG MAIL , AND A GLIMPSE OF THE CITY . 
It is ten o'clock at night say half past ten moonlight , warm , and dull enough . 
is riding lazily up and down , and bumping clumsily against the wooden pier , as the ripple of the river trifles with its unwieldy carcase . 
The wharf is some distance from the city . 
There is nobody down here and one or two dull lamps upon the steamer's decks are the only signs of life remaining , when our coach has driven away . 
I valiantly resolve not to go to bed at all , but to walk up and down the pier till morning . 
I begin my promenade thinking of all kinds of distant things and persons , and of nothing near and pace up and down for half an hour . 
in honour of our departure , and may be two hours longer . 
I walk again , but it gets duller and duller the moon goes down next June seems farther off in the dark , and the echoes of my footsteps make me nervous . 
It has turned cold too and walking up and down without my companion in such lonely circumstances , is but poor amusement . 
So I break my staunch resolution , and think it may be , perhaps , as well to go to bed . 
I go on board again open the door of the gentlemen's cabin and walk in . 
Somehow or other from its being so quiet , I suppose I have taken it into my head that there is nobody there . 
I take another step forward , and slip on the shining face of a black steward , who lies rolled in a blanket on the floor . 
He jumps up , grins , half in pain and half in hospitality whispers my own name in my ear and groping among the sleepers , leads me to my berth . 
Standing beside it , I count these slumbering passengers , and get past forty . 
There is no use in going further , so I begin to undress . 
Having but partially undressed , I clamber on my shelf , and hold the curtain open for a few minutes while I look round on all my fellow travellers again . 
That done , I let it fall on them , and on the world turn round and go to sleep . 
I wake , of course , when we get under weigh , for there is a good deal of noise . 
The day is then just breaking . 
Everybody wakes at the same time . 
Some are self possessed directly , and some are much perplexed to make out where they are until they have rubbed their eyes , and leaning on one elbow , looked about them . 
Some yawn , some groan , nearly all spit , and a few get up . 
I am among the risers for it is easy to feel , without going into the fresh air , that the atmosphere of the cabin is vile in the last degree . 
I huddle on my clothes , go down into the fore cabin , get shaved by the barber , and wash myself . 
Everybody uses the comb and brush , except myself . 
Everybody stares to see me using my own and two or three gentlemen are strongly disposed to banter me on my prejudices , but don't . 
When I have made my toilet , I go upon the hurricane deck , and set in for two hours of hard walking up and down . 
The sun is rising brilliantly we are passing Mount Vernon , where Washington lies buried the river is wide and rapid and its banks are beautiful . 
All the glory and splendour of the day are coming on , and growing brighter every minute . 
At eight o'clock , we breakfast in the cabin where I passed the night , but the windows and doors are all thrown open , and now it is fresh enough . 
There is no hurry or greediness apparent in the despatch of the meal . 
It is longer than a travelling breakfast with us more orderly , and more polite . 
Soon after nine o'clock we come to Potomac Creek , where we are to land and then comes the oddest part of the journey . 
Seven stage coaches are preparing to carry us on . 
Some of them are ready , some of them are not ready . 
Some of the drivers are blacks , some whites . 
There are four horses to each coach , and all the horses , harnessed or unharnessed , are there . 
The coaches are something like the French coaches , but not nearly so good . 
In lieu of springs , they are hung on bands of the strongest leather . 
They are covered with mud from the roof to the wheel tire , and have never been cleaned since they were first built . 
The tickets we have received on board the steamboat are marked No. , so we belong to coach No. . 
I throw my coat on the box , and hoist my wife and her maid into the inside . 
It has only one step , and that being about a yard from the ground , is usually approached by a chair when there is no chair , ladies trust in Providence . 
There is only one outside passenger , and he sits upon the box . 
He is a negro very black indeed . 
, grey stockings , enormous unblacked high low shoes , and very short trousers . 
He has two odd gloves one of parti coloured worsted , and one of leather . 
He has a very short whip , broken in the middle and bandaged up with string . 
The mail takes the lead in a four horse waggon , and all the coaches follow in procession headed by No. . 
By the way , whenever an Englishman would cry 'All right ! an American cries 'Go ahead ! which is somewhat expressive of the national character of the two countries . 
The first half mile of the road is over bridges made of loose planks laid across two parallel poles , which tilt up as the wheels roll over them and IN the river . 
The river has a clayey bottom and is full of holes , so that half a horse is constantly disappearing unexpectedly , and can't be found again for some time . 
But we get past even this , and come to the road itself , which is a series of alternate swamps and gravel pits . 
like the late lamented Ducrow on two of his fiery coursers . 
We come to the spot , sink down in the mire nearly to the coach windows , tilt on one side at an angle of forty five degrees , and stick there . 
Then the following circumstances occur . 
'Ho ! Horses plunge , and splash the black driver . 
'Why , what on airth Gentleman receives a variety of splashes and draws his head in again , without finishing his question or waiting for an answer . 
, 'Pill ! No effect . 
'Pill ! Horses make another struggle to get up the bank , and again the coach rolls backward . 
'Pe e e ill ! Horses make a desperate struggle . 
'Hi , Jiddy , Jiddy , Pill ! Horses make another effort . 
Ally Loo ! Horses almost do it . 
Lee e e e e ! They run up the bank , and go down again on the other side at a fearful pace . 
It is impossible to stop them , and at the bottom there is a deep hollow , full of water . 
The mud and water fly about us . 
The black driver dances like a madman . 
Suddenly we are all right by some extraordinary means , and stop to breathe . 
A black friend of the black driver is sitting on a fence . 
The black driver recognises him by twirling his head round and round like a harlequin , rolling his eyes , shrugging his shoulders , and grinning from ear to ear . 
He stops short , turns to me , and says 'We shall get you through sa , like a fiddle , and hope a please you when we get you through sa . 
Old 'ooman at home sa chuckling very much . 
'Outside gentleman sa , he often remember old 'ooman at home sa , grinning again . 
'Ay ay , we'll take care of the old woman . 
The black driver grins again , but there is another hole , and beyond that , another bank , close before us . 
Loo , but never 'Lee ! until we are reduced to the very last extremity , and are in the midst of difficulties , extrication from which appears to be all but impossible . 
This singular kind of coaching terminates at Fredericksburgh , whence there is a railway to Richmond . 
there is an air of ruin and decay abroad , which is inseparable from the system . 
are squalid in the last degree . 
There is no look of decent comfort anywhere . 
The children cried the whole way , and the mother was misery's picture . 
The black in Sinbad's Travels with one eye in the middle of his forehead which shone like a burning coal , was nature's aristocrat compared with this white gentleman . 
We found it a very large and elegant establishment , and were as well entertained as travellers need desire to be . 
Although it was yet but the middle of March , the weather in this southern temperature was extremely warm the peech trees and magnolias were in full bloom and the trees were green . 
In a low ground among the hills , is a valley known as 'Bloody Run , from a terrible conflict with the Indians which once occurred there . 
The city is the seat of the local parliament of Virginia and in its shady legislative halls , some orators were drowsily holding forth to the hot noon day . 
I saw in this place the whole process of picking , rolling , pressing , drying , packing in casks , and branding . 
In this form , the weed looks like the oil cake on which we fatten cattle and even without reference to its consequences , is sufficiently uninviting . 
Many of the workmen appeared to be strong men , and it is hardly necessary to add that they were all labouring quietly , then . 
After two o'clock in the day , they are allowed to sing , a certain number at a time . 
The hour striking while I was there , some twenty sang a hymn in parts , and sang it by no means ill pursuing their work meanwhile . 
A bell rang as I was about to leave , and they all poured forth into a building on the opposite side of the street to dinner . 
Of their appearance I shall have something to say , presently . 
On the following day , I visited a plantation or farm , of about twelve hundred acres , on the opposite bank of the river . 
The planter's house was an airy , rustic dwelling , that brought Defoe's description of such places strongly to my recollection . 
Before the windows was an open piazza , where , in what they call the hot weather whatever that may be they sling hammocks , and drink and doze luxuriously . 
The same decay and gloom that overhang the way by which it is approached , hover above the town of Richmond . 
To those who are happily unaccustomed to them , the countenances in the streets and labouring places , too , are shocking . 
, and halting there again for one night , went on to Baltimore next afternoon . 
and where he will be likely to have enough water for washing himself , which is not at all a common case . 
This capital of the state of Maryland is a bustling , busy town , with a great deal of traffic of various kinds , and in particular of water commerce . 
There is a very good prison in this city , and the State Penitentiary is also among its institutions . 
In this latter establishment there were two curious cases . 
One was that of a young man , who had been tried for the murder of his father . 
The evidence was entirely circumstantial , and was very conflicting and doubtful nor was it possible to assign any motive which could have tempted him to the commission of so tremendous a crime . 
The remarkable feature in the case was , that if the unfortunate deceased were not really murdered by this own son of his , he must have been murdered by his own brother . 
The evidence lay in a most remarkable manner , between those two . 
went , by construction and inference , to inculcate him as plotting to fix the guilt upon his nephew . 
It must have been one of them and the jury had to decide between two sets of suspicions , almost equally unnatural , unaccountable , and strange . 
The other case , was that of a man who once went to a certain distiller's and stole a copper measure containing a quantity of liquor . 
He was pursued and taken with the property in his possession , and was sentenced to two years' imprisonment . 
There was not the slightest reason to suppose that the man wished to return to prison indeed everything , but the commission of the offence , made directly against that assumption . 
There are only two ways of accounting for this extraordinary proceeding . 
One is , that after undergoing so much for this copper measure he conceived he had established a sort of claim and right to it . 
This conveyance , the box of which I was fortunate enough to secure , had come down to meet us at the railroad station , and was as muddy and cumbersome as usual . 
being at length made fast upon the roof , we started off in great state . 
At the door of another hotel , there was another passenger to be taken up . 
'Any room , sir ? cries the new passenger to the coachman . 
'Well , there's room enough , replies the coachman , without getting down , or even looking at him . 
'There an't no room at all , sir , bawls a gentleman inside . 
confirms , by predicting that the attempt to introduce any more passengers 'won't fit nohow . 
This is no matter of relief or self congratulation to the driver , for his immovable philosophy is perfectly undisturbed by anything that happens in the coach . 
Of all things in the world , the coach would seem to be the very last upon his mind . 
'Go a head , cap'en , cries the colonel , who directs . 
'Go lang ! cries the cap'en to his company , the horses , and away we go . 
We also parted with more of our freight at different times , so that when we came to change horses , I was again alone outside . 
The coachmen always change with the horses , and are usually as dirty as the coach . 
It had by this time come on to rain very heavily , and there was a cold damp mist besides , which penetrated to the skin . 
When I mounted to my seat again , I observed a new parcel lying on the coach roof , which I took to be a rather large fiddle in a brown bag . 
We crossed this river by a wooden bridge , roofed and covered in on all sides , and nearly a mile in length . 
We had no lamps and as the horses stumbled and floundered through this place , towards the distant speck of dying light , it seemed interminable . 
At length , however , we emerged upon the streets of Harrisburg , whose feeble lights , reflected dismally from the wet ground , did not shine out upon a very cheerful city . 
and the other curiosities of the town . 
These signatures , traced of course by their own hands , are rough drawings of the creatures or weapons they were called after . 
So with the Arrow , the Fish , the Scalp , the Big Canoe , and all of them . 
Our host announced , before our early dinner , that some members of the legislative body proposed to do us the honour of calling . 
after dinner , the weather was as unpromising and obstinately wet as one would desire to see . 
CHAPTER X SOME FURTHER ACCOUNT OF THE CANAL BOAT , ITS DOMESTIC ECONOMY , AND ITS PASSENGERS . 
JOURNEY TO PITTSBURG ACROSS THE ALLEGHANY MOUNTAINS . 
It is the Caleb Quotem of the American vocabulary . 
But custom familiarises one to anything , and there were so many bridges that it took a very short time to get used to this . 
sounded as though a million of fairy teams with bells were travelling through the air , and keeping pace with us . 
I have mentioned my having been in some uncertainty and doubt , at first , relative to the sleeping arrangements on board this boat . 
As soon as any gentleman found his number , he took possession of it by immediately undressing himself and crawling into bed . 
The rapidity with which an agitated gambler subsided into a snoring slumberer , was one of the most singular effects I have ever witnessed . 
Luckily , I came upon my back at exactly the right moment . 
One of two remarkable circumstances is indisputably a fact , with reference to that class of society who travel in these boats . 
Either they carry their restlessness to such a pitch that they never sleep at all or they expectorate in dreams , which would be a remarkable mingling of the real and ideal . 
, I was fain the next morning to lay it on the deck , and rub it down with fair water before it was in a condition to be worn again . 
The washing accommodations were primitive . 
, fished the dirty water out of the canal , and poured it into a tin basin , secured in like manner . 
There was also a jack towel . 
And , hanging up before a little looking glass in the bar , in the immediate vicinity of the bread and cheese and biscuits , were a public comb and hair brush . 
Some were fond of compounding this variety , and having it all on their plates at once . 
Dinner was breakfast again , without the tea and coffee and supper and breakfast were identical . 
He never spoke otherwise than interrogatively . 
He was an embodied inquiry . 
There never was such a curious man . 
We had another odd specimen on board , of a different kind . 
This was a thin faced , spare figured man of middle age and stature , dressed in a dusty drabbish coloured suit , such as I never saw before . 
The conjunction of events which made him famous , happened , briefly , thus . 
There are two canal lines of passage boats one is called The Express , and one The Pioneer . 
The Pioneer gets first to the mountain , and waits for the Express people to come up both sets of passengers being conveyed across it at the same time . 
Our people grumbled at this , as people do in such cases but suffered the boat to be towed off with the whole freight aboard nevertheless and away we went down the canal . 
At home , I should have protested lustily , but being a foreigner here , I held my peace . 
, and without addressing anybody whomsoever , soliloquised as follows 'This may suit YOU , this may , but it don't suit ME . 
Now ! I'm from the brown forests of Mississippi , I am , and when the sun shines on me , it does shine a little . 
It don't glimmer where I live , the sun don't . 
No. I'm a brown forester , I am . 
I an't a Johnny Cake . 
There are no smooth skins where I live . 
If Down Easters and men of Boston raising like this , I'm glad of it , but I'm none of that raising nor of that breed . 
No. This company wants a little fixing , IT does . 
I'm the wrong sort of man for 'em , I am . 
They won't like me , THEY won't . 
This is piling of it up , a little too mountainous , this is . 
, replied , 'No you an't . 
You're none o' my raising . 
You may act for yourselves , YOU may . 
I have pinted out the way . 
Down Easters and Johnny Cakes can follow if they please . 
I an't a Johnny Cake , I an't . 
I am from the brown forests of the Mississippi , I am' and so on , as before . 
We had left Harrisburg on Friday . 
On Sunday morning we arrived at the foot of the mountain , which is crossed by railroad . 
The journey is very carefully made , however only two carriages travelling together and while proper precautions are taken , is not to be dreaded for its dangers . 
On the Monday evening , furnace fires and clanking hammers on the banks of the canal , warned us that we approached the termination of this part of our journey . 
Pittsburg is like Birmingham in England at least its townspeople say so . 
Setting aside the streets , the shops , the houses , waggons , factories , public buildings , and population , perhaps it may be . 
It certainly has a great quantity of smoke hanging about it , and is famous for its iron works . 
Besides the prison to which I have already referred , this town contains a pretty arsenal and other institutions . 
We lodged at a most excellent hotel , and were admirably served . 
As usual it was full of boarders , was very large , and had a broad colonnade to every story of the house . 
We tarried here three days . 
One called the Messenger was the best recommended . 
CHAPTER XI FROM PITTSBURG TO CINCINNATI IN A WESTERN STEAMBOAT . 
She had some forty passengers on board , exclusive of the poorer persons on the lower deck and in half an hour , or less , proceeded on her way . 
We had , for ourselves , a tiny state room with two berths in it , opening out of the ladies' cabin . 
Nor was this an unnecessary caution , as the occurrence and circumstances of more than one such fatality during our stay sufficiently testified . 
I hardly know what to liken them to , or how to describe them . 
Within , there is one long narrow cabin , the whole length of the boat from which the state rooms open , on both sides . 
A small portion of it at the stern is partitioned off for the ladies and the bar is at the opposite extreme . 
There is a long table down the centre , and at either end a stove . 
The washing apparatus is forward , on the deck . 
It is a little better than on board the canal boat , but not much . 
We are to be on board the Messenger three days arriving at Cincinnati on Monday morning . 
There are three meals a day . 
Breakfast at seven , dinner at half past twelve , supper about six . 
, by way of relish to their roast pig . 
, for breakfast , and for supper . 
At dinner , there is nothing to drink upon the table , but great jugs full of cold water . 
Nobody says anything , at any meal , to anybody . 
All the passengers are very dismal , and seem to have tremendous secrets weighing on their minds . 
There is no conversation , no laughter , no cheerfulness , no sociality , except in spitting and that is done in silent fellowship round the stove , when the meal is over . 
Undertakers on duty would be sprightly beside them and a collation of funeral baked meats , in comparison with these meals , would be a sparkling festivity . 
The people are all alike , too . 
There is no diversity of character . 
They travel about on the same errands , say and do the same things in exactly the same manner , and follow in the same dull cheerless round . 
All down the long table , there is scarcely a man who is in anything different from his neighbour . 
The beautiful girl , who sits a little beyond her farther down the table there married the young man with the dark whiskers , who sits beyond HER , only last month . 
They are going to settle in the very Far West , where he has lived four years , but where she has never been . 
, and his head , which bears the marks of a recent wound , is bound up still . 
She was hurt too , at the same time , and lay insensible for some days bright as her eyes are , now . 
Further down still , sits a man who is going some miles beyond their place of destination , to 'improve' a newly discovered copper mine . 
He carries the village that is to be with him a few frame cottages , and an apparatus for smelting the copper . 
He carries its people too . 
They , and the very few who have been left at table twenty minutes , rise , and go away . 
We do so too and passing through our little state room , resume our seats in the quiet gallery without . 
A fine broad river always , but in some parts much wider than in others and then there is usually a green island , covered with trees , dividing it into two streams . 
but the banks are for the most part deep solitudes , overgrown with trees , which , hereabouts , are already in leaf and very green . 
It stands in the corner of the poor field of wheat , which is full of great unsightly stumps , like earthy butchers' blocks . 
Sometimes the ground is only just now cleared the felled trees lying yet upon the soil and the log house only this morning begun . 
As we pass this clearing , the settler leans upon his axe or hammer , and looks wistfully at the people from the world . 
The children creep out of the temporary hut , which is like a gipsy tent upon the ground , and clap their hands and shout . 
And still there is the same , eternal foreground . 
The river has washed away its banks , and stately trees have fallen down into the stream . 
Some have been there so long , that they are mere dry , grizzly skeletons . 
Some have just toppled over , and having earth yet about their roots , are bathing their green heads in the river , and putting forth new shoots and branches . 
Some are almost sliding down , as you look at them . 
All this I see as I sit in the little stern gallery mentioned just now . 
Evening slowly steals upon the landscape and changes it before me , when we stop to set some emigrants ashore . 
Five men , as many women , and a little girl . 
All their worldly goods are a bag , a large chest and an old chair one , old , high backed , rush bottomed chair a solitary settler in itself . 
They are rowed ashore in the boat , while the vessel stands a little off awaiting its return , the water being shallow . 
They are landed at the foot of a high bank , on the summit of which are a few log cabins , attainable only by a long winding path . 
It is growing dusk but the sun is very red , and shines in the water and on some of the tree tops , like fire . 
None of the others sit down , though the chest is large enough for many seats . 
They all stand where they landed , as if stricken into stone and look after the boat . 
It comes alongside , is made fast , the men jump on board , the engine is put in motion , and we go hoarsely on again . 
There they stand yet , without the motion of a hand . 
And thus I slowly lose them . 
The night is dark , and we proceed within the shadow of the wooded bank , which makes it darker . 
After gliding past the sombre maze of boughs for a long time , we come upon an open space where the tall trees are burning . 
The shape of every branch and twig is expressed in a deep red glow , and as the light wind stirs and ruffles it , they seem to vegetate in fire . 
Cincinnati is a beautiful city cheerful , thriving , and animated . 
Nor does it become less prepossessing on a closer acquaintance . 
The streets are broad and airy , the shops extremely good , the private residences remarkable for their elegance and neatness . 
There were bands of music too , and banners out of number and it was a fresh , holiday looking concourse altogether . 
the hardest for their living and doing any kind of sturdy labour that came in their way , were the most independent fellows there , I thought . 
The banners were very well painted , and flaunted down the street famously . 
, aiming a deadly blow at a serpent which was apparently about to spring upon him from the top of a barrel of spirits . 
I was only present in one of these establishments during the hours of instruction . 
In the girls' school , reading was proposed and as I felt tolerably equal to that art , I expressed my willingness to hear a class . 
Books were distributed accordingly , and some half dozen girls relieved each other in reading paragraphs from English History . 
, I expressed myself quite satisfied . 
As in every other place I visited , the judges here were gentlemen of high character and attainments . 
I was in one of the courts for a few minutes , and found it like those to which I have already referred . 
A nuisance cause was trying there were not many spectators and the witnesses , counsel , and jury , formed a sort of family circle , sufficiently jocose and snug . 
The society with which I mingled , was intelligent , courteous , and agreeable . 
was a wild wood , and its citizens were but a handful of dwellers in scattered log huts upon the river's shore . 
CHAPTER XII FROM CINCINNATI TO LOUISVILLE IN ANOTHER WESTERN STEAMBOAT AND FROM LOUISVILLE TO ST . 
He spoke English perfectly well , though he had not begun to learn the language , he told me , until he was a young man grown . 
He appeared to understand correctly all he had read and whatever fiction had enlisted his sympathy in its belief , had done so keenly and earnestly . 
I might almost say fiercely . 
He was dressed in our ordinary everyday costume , which hung about his fine figure loosely , and with indifferent grace . 
He told me that he had been away from his home , west of the Mississippi , seventeen months and was now returning . 
I asked him what he thought of Congress ? He answered , with a smile , that it wanted dignity , in an Indian's eyes . 
He would very much like , he said , to see England before he died and spoke with much interest about the great things to be seen there . 
This led us to speak of Mr. Catlin's gallery , which he praised highly observing that his own portrait was among the collection , and that all the likenesses were 'elegant . 
When I told him that supposing I went , I should not be very likely to damage the buffaloes much , he took it as a great joke and laughed heartily . 
There were but twenty thousand of the Choctaws left , he said , and their number was decreasing every day . 
A few of his brother chiefs had been obliged to become civilised , and to make themselves acquainted with what the whites knew , for it was their only chance of existence . 
But they were not many and the rest were as they always had been . 
He dwelt on this and said several times that unless they tried to assimilate themselves to their conquerors , they must be swept away before the strides of civilised society . 
He took his leave as stately and complete a gentleman of Nature's making , as ever I beheld and moved among the people in the boat , another kind of being . 
He sent me a lithographed portrait of himself soon afterwards very like , though scarcely handsome enough which I have carefully preserved in memory of our brief acquaintance . 
There was nothing very interesting in the scenery of this day's journey , which brought us at midnight to Louisville . 
We slept at the Galt House a splendid hotel and were as handsomely lodged as though we had been in Paris , rather than hundreds of miles beyond the Alleghanies . 
The interval , after breakfast , we devoted to riding through the town , which is regular and cheerful the streets being laid out at right angles , and planted with young trees . 
The buildings are smoky and blackened , from the use of bituminous coal , but an Englishman is well used to that appearance , and indisposed to quarrel with it . 
were basking in the sunshine , the very effigies of languor and repose . 
It was a perfect picture of justice retired from business for want of customers her sword and scales sold off napping comfortably with her legs upon the table . 
Here , as elsewhere in these parts , the road was perfectly alive with pigs of all ages lying about in every direction , fast asleep . 
or grunting along in quest of hidden dainties . 
I had always a sneaking kindness for these odd animals , and found a constant source of amusement , when all others failed , in watching their proceedings . 
Never was pig's whole mass of blood so turned . 
There never was a race of people who so completely gave the lie to history as these giants , or whom all the chroniclers have so cruelly libelled . 
The Kentucky Giant was but another illustration of the truth of this position . 
He had a weakness in the region of the knees , and a trustfulness in his long face , which appealed even to five feet nine for encouragement and support . 
He was only twenty five years old , he said , and had grown recently , for it had been found necessary to make an addition to the legs of his inexpressibles . 
He added that his health had not been good , though it was better now but short people are not wanting who whisper that he drinks too hard . 
He brought his gun with him , as a curiosity . 
Christened 'The Little Rifle , and displayed outside a shop window , it would make the fortune of any retail business in Holborn . 
Within a few minutes afterwards , we were out of the canal , and in the Ohio river again . 
The arrangements of the boat were like those of the Messenger , and the passengers were of the same order of people . 
We fed at the same times , on the same kind of viands , in the same dull manner , and with the same observances . 
The company appeared to be oppressed by the same tremendous concealments , and had as little capacity of enjoyment or light heartedness . 
But nothing could have made head against the depressing influence of the general body . 
There was a magnetism of dulness in them which would have beaten down the most facetious companion that the earth ever knew . 
A jest would have been a crime , and a smile would have faded into a grinning horror . 
Nor was the scenery , as we approached the junction of the Ohio and Mississippi rivers , at all inspiriting in its influence . 
The trees were stunted in their growth the banks were low and flat the settlements and log cabins fewer in number their inhabitants more wan and wretched than any we had encountered yet . 
No songs of birds were in the air , no pleasant scents , no moving lights and shadows from swift passing clouds . 
Hour after hour , the changeless glare of the hot , unwinking sky , shone upon the same monotonous objects . 
Hour after hour , the river rolled along , as wearily and slowly as the time itself . 
The decline of day here was very gorgeous tingeing the firmament deeply with red and gold , up to the very keystone of the arch above us . 
We drank the muddy water of this river while we were upon it . 
It is considered wholesome by the natives , and is something more opaque than gruel . 
I have seen water like it at the Filter shops , but nowhere else . 
On the fourth night after leaving Louisville , we reached St . 
Louis , and here I witnessed the conclusion of an incident , trifling enough in itself , but very pleasant to see , which had interested me during the whole journey . 
There was a little woman on board , with a little baby and both little woman and little child were cheerful , good looking , bright eyed , and fair to see . 
The little woman had been passing a long time with her sick mother in New York , and had left her home in St . 
Louis , in that condition in which ladies who truly love their lords desire to be . 
, for twelve months having left him a month or two after their marriage . 
was wondrous sly , I promise you inquiring , every time we met at table , as in forgetfulness , whether she expected anybody to meet her at St . 
, and cutting many other dry jokes of that nature . 
It was something of a blow to the little woman , that when we were within twenty miles of our destination , it became clearly necessary to put this baby to bed . 
But she got over it with the same good humour tied a handkerchief round her head and came out into the little gallery with the rest . 
greeted every jest with ! At last , there were the lights of St . 
more than ever , ran into her own cabin , and shut herself up . 
It is an excellent house , and the proprietors have most bountiful notions of providing the creature comforts . 
Dining alone with my wife in our own room , one day , I counted fourteen dishes on the table at once . 
There are queer little barbers' shops and drinking houses too , in this quarter and abundance of crazy old tenements with blinking casements , such as may be seen in Flanders . 
It is hardly necessary to say , that these consist of wharfs and warehouses , and new buildings in all directions and of a great many vast plans which are still 'progressing . 
The Roman Catholic religion , introduced here by the early French settlers , prevails extensively . 
The architect of this building , is one of the reverend fathers of the school , and the works proceed under his sole direction . 
The organ will be sent from Belgium . 
It also sends missionaries from hence among the Indian tribes . 
The Unitarian church is represented , in this remote place , as in most other parts of America , by a gentleman of great worth and excellence . 
The poor have good reason to remember and bless it for it befriends them , and aids the cause of rational education , without any sectarian or selfish views . 
It is liberal in all its actions of kind construction and of wide benevolence . 
There are three free schools already erected , and in full operation in this city . 
A fourth is building , and will soon be opened . 
, and I shall therefore , I have no doubt , be at issue with the inhabitants of St . 
Louis , in questioning the perfect salubrity of its climate , and in hinting that I think it must rather dispose to fever , in the summer and autumnal seasons . 
CHAPTER XIII A JAUNT TO THE LOOKING GLASS PRAIRIE AND BACK I MAY premise that the word Prairie is variously pronounced PARAAER , PAREARER , PAROARER . 
The latter mode of pronunciation is perhaps the most in favour . 
There were no ladies the trip being a fatiguing one and we were to start at five o'clock in the morning punctually . 
The previous day had been not to say hot , for the term is weak and lukewarm in its power of conveying an idea of the temperature . 
The town had been on fire in a blaze . 
But at night it had come on to rain in torrents , and all night long it had rained without cessation . 
It had no variety but in depth . 
Now it was only half over the wheels , now it hid the axletree , and now the coach sank down in it almost to the windows . 
, had the whole scene to themselves . 
On either side of the track , if it deserve the name , was the thick 'bush and everywhere was stagnant , slimy , rotten , filthy water . 
It consisted of one room , bare roofed and bare walled of course , with a loft above . 
The ministering priest was a swarthy young savage , in a shirt of cotton print like bed furniture , and a pair of ragged trousers . 
, that he was from Delaware , and had lately bought a farm 'down there , pointing into one of the marshes where the stunted trees were thickest . 
He was 'going , he added , to St . 
Belleville was a small collection of wooden houses , huddled together in the very heart of the bush and swamp . 
There was an hotel in this place , which , like all hotels in America , had its large dining room for the public table . 
The horseman had gone forward to have coffee and some eatables prepared , and they were by this time nearly ready . 
He had ordered 'wheat bread and chicken fixings , in preference to 'corn bread and common doings . 
The latter kind of rejection includes only pork and bacon . 
Crocus would that evening deliver a lecture on Phrenology for the benefit of the Belleville public at a charge , for admission , of so much a head . 
The bed itself was covered with an old patch work counterpane . 
The room was destitute of carpet or of curtain . 
Now , it certainly looked about the last apartment on the whole earth out of which any man would be likely to get anything to do him good . 
Doctor Crocus is here , gentlemen , the celebrated Dr . 
Crocus has come all this way to cure you , gentlemen . 
If you haven't heard of Dr . 
Crocus , it's your fault , gentlemen , who live a little way out of the world here not Dr . 
Walk in , gentlemen , walk in ! In the passage below , when I went down stairs again , was Dr . 
A crowd had flocked in from the Court House , and a voice from among them called out to the landlord , 'Colonel ! introduce Doctor Crocus . 
Dickens , says the colonel , 'Doctor Crocus . 
'Long in these parts , sir ? says I. 'Three or four months , sir , says the Doctor . 
'Think of soon returning to the old country , sir ! repeats the Doctor . 
'To the old country , sir , I rejoin . 
You won't catch me at that just yet , sir . 
I am a little too fond of freedom for THAT , sir . 
Ha , ha ! It's not so easy for a man to tear himself from a free country such as this is , sir . 
Ha , ha ! No , no ! Ha , ha ! None of that till one's obliged to do it , sir . 
No , no ! As Doctor Crocus says these latter words , he shakes his head , knowingly , and laughs again . 
The public house was so very clean and good a one , that the managers of the jaunt resolved to return to it and put up there for the night , if possible . 
This course decided on , and the horses being well refreshed , we again pushed forward , and came upon the Prairie at sunset . 
It would be difficult to say why , or how though it was possibly from having heard and read so much about it but the effect on me was disappointment . 
But the grass was not yet high there were bare black patches on the ground and the few wild flowers that the eye could see , were poor and scanty . 
Great as the picture was , its very flatness and extent , which left nothing to the imagination , tamed it down and cramped its interest . 
I felt little of that sense of freedom and exhilaration which a Scottish heath inspires , or even our English downs awaken . 
It was lonely and wild , but oppressive in its barren monotony . 
, to remember with much pleasure , or to covet the looking on again , in after life . 
We encamped near a solitary log house , for the sake of its water , and dined upon the plain . 
, ham , bread , cheese , and butter biscuits , champagne , sherry lemons and sugar for punch and abundance of rough ice . 
The meal was delicious , and the entertainers were the soul of kindness and good humour . 
Returning to Lebanon that night , we lay at the little inn at which we had halted in the afternoon . 
In point of cleanliness and comfort it would have suffered by no comparison with any English alehouse , of a homely kind , in England . 
, who held up her gold neck chain for the admiration of the spectator , and informed all admiring comers that she was 'Just Seventeen although I should have thought her older . 
They were painted , I think , by the artist who had touched up the Belleville doors with red and gold for I seemed to recognise his style immediately . 
And very pleasant the fire was for , hot though it had been yesterday , it was quite cold to day , and the wind blew keenly . 
The track of to day had the same features as the track of yesterday . 
There was the swamp , the bush , and the perpetual chorus of frogs , the rank unseemly growth , the unwholesome steaming earth . 
Here and there , and frequently too , we encountered a solitary broken down waggon , full of some new settler's goods . 
Louis , and so designated in honour of the last fatal combat fought there , which was with pistols , breast to breast . 
CHAPTER XIV RETURN TO CINCINNATI . 
A STAGE COACH RIDE FROM THAT CITY TO COLUMBUS , AND THENCE TO SANDUSKY . 
Louis by the way we had come , and to retrace our former track as far as Cincinnati . 
The day on which we were to take leave of St . 
The fare was very good , and served with great cleanliness . 
, he would clean up his musket , and be off to Texas to morrow morning . 
Leaving it for the company of its sparkling neighbour , was like the transition from pain to ease , or the awakening from a horrible vision to cheerful realities . 
We arrived at Louisville on the fourth night , and gladly availed ourselves of its excellent hotel . 
Next day we went on in the Ben Franklin , a beautiful mail steamboat , and reached Cincinnati shortly after midnight . 
We rested but one day at Cincinnati , and then resumed our journey to Sandusky . 
Our place of destination in the first instance is Columbus . 
the whole way , and the rate of travelling upon it is six miles an hour . 
Dropsical it certainly is , for it will hold a dozen passengers inside . 
But , wonderful to add , it is very clean and bright , being nearly new and rattles through the streets of Cincinnati gaily . 
Our way lies through a beautiful country , richly cultivated , and luxuriant in its promise of an abundant harvest . 
We often stop to water at a roadside inn , which is always dull and silent . 
The coachman dismounts and fills his bucket , and holds it to the horses' heads . 
There is scarcely ever any one to help him there are seldom any loungers standing round and never any stable company with jokes to crack . 
The landlord of the inn is usually among them , and seems , of all the party , to be the least connected with the business of the house . 
The frequent change of coachmen works no change or variety in the coachman's character . 
He is always dirty , sullen , and taciturn . 
If he be capable of smartness of any kind , moral or physical , he has a faculty of concealing it which is truly marvellous . 
He never speaks to you as you sit beside him on the box , and if you speak to him , he answers in monosyllables . 
He points out nothing on the road , and seldom looks at anything being , to all appearance , thoroughly weary of it and of existence generally . 
As to doing the honours of his coach , his business , as I have said , is with the horses . 
The coach follows because it is attached to them and goes on wheels not because you are in it . 
He always chews and always spits , and never encumbers himself with a pocket handkerchief . 
The consequences to the box passenger , especially when the wind blows towards him , are not agreeable . 
Thus The time is one o'clock at noon . 
The scene , a place where we are to stay and dine , on this journey . 
The coach drives up to the door of an inn . 
The day is warm , and there are several idlers lingering about the tavern , and waiting for the public dinner . 
Among them , is a stout gentleman in a brown hat , swinging himself to and fro in a rocking chair on the pavement . 
As the coach stops , a gentleman in a straw hat looks out of the window STRAW HAT . 
I reckon that's Judge Jefferson , an't it ? BROWN HAT . 
There was a snap of cold , last week . 
They look at each other , very seriously . 
I calculate you'll have got through that case of the corporation , Judge , by this time , now ? BROWN HAT . 
How did the verdict go , sir ? BROWN HAT . 
For the defendant , sir . 
Yes , sir ? BROWN HAT . 
They look at each other again , still more seriously than before . 
This coach is rather behind its time to day , I guess . 
Yes , sir nigh upon two hours . 
Yes , sir ! BROWN HAT . 
ALL THE OTHER INSIDE PASSENGERS . 
Well , I don't know , sir . 
We were a pretty tall time coming that last fifteen mile . 
then sits , is not a new one ? To which the brown hat again makes answer , 'Yes , sir . 
Pretty loud smell of varnish , sir ? BROWN HAT . 
ALL THE OTHER INSIDE PASSENGERS . 
The conversational powers of the company having been by this time pretty heavily taxed , the straw hat opens the door and gets out and all the rest alight also . 
We dine soon afterwards with the boarders in the house , and have nothing to drink but tea and coffee . 
After all , perhaps , the plainest course for persons of such tender consciences , would be , a total abstinence from tavern keeping . 
, to the hotel where this meal is prepared . 
There being many boarders here , we sit down , a large party , and a very melancholy one as usual . 
On we go , all night , and by and by the day begins to break , and presently the first cheerful rays of the warm sun come slanting on us brightly . 
It sheds its light upon a miserable waste of sodden grass , and dull trees , and squalid huts , whose aspect is forlorn and grievous in the last degree . 
But it was purchased years ago , and as the owner cannot be discovered , the State has been unable to reclaim it . 
So there it remains , in the midst of cultivation and improvement , like ground accursed , and made obscene and rank by some great crime . 
The town is clean and pretty , and of course is 'going to be' much larger . 
It is the seat of the State legislature of Ohio , and lays claim , in consequence , to some consideration and importance . 
At one time we were all flung together in a heap at the bottom of the coach , and at another we were crushing our heads against the roof . 
Now , one side was down deep in the mire , and we were holding on to the other . 
A great portion of the way was over what is called a corduroy road , which is made by throwing trunks of trees into a marsh , and leaving them to settle there . 
The very slightest of the jolts with which the ponderous carriage fell from log to log , was enough , it seemed , to have dislocated all the bones in the human body . 
It would be impossible to experience a similar set of sensations , in any other circumstances , unless perhaps in attempting to go up to the top of St . 
Never , never once , that day , was the coach in any position , attitude , or kind of motion to which we are accustomed in coaches . 
Never did it make the smallest approach to one's experience of the proceedings of any sort of vehicle that goes on wheels . 
, we went forward again , gaily . 
As night came on , the track grew narrower and narrower , until at last it so lost itself among the trees , that the driver seemed to find his way by instinct . 
So we stumbled along , quite satisfied . 
These stumps of trees are a curious feature in American travelling . 
The varying illusions they present to the unaccustomed eye as it grows dark , are quite astonishing in their number and reality . 
My Boston friend climbed up to bed , somewhere in the roof , where another guest was already snoring hugely . 
But being bitten beyond his power of endurance , he turned out again , and fled for shelter to the coach , which was airing itself in front of the house . 
The precaution , however , is quite inefficacious , for the Indians never fail to procure liquor of a worse kind , at a dearer price , from travelling pedlars . 
It is a settlement of the Wyandot Indians who inhabit this place . 
He had witnessed many such removals , and always with pain , though he knew that they departed for their own good . 
When the speaking was done , the ayes and noes were ranged on opposite sides , and every male adult voted in his turn . 
cheerfully yielded to the rest , and withdrew all kind of opposition . 
We met some of these poor Indians afterwards , riding on shaggy ponies . 
The town , which was sluggish and uninteresting enough , was something like the back of an English watering place , out of the season . 
, until it was time to clear away . 
As she proved to be on her way to Buffalo , we hurried on board with all speed , and soon left Sandusky far behind us . 
She was laden with flour , some casks of which commodity were stored upon the deck . 
I don't know why or wherefore , but I appeared to run in his mind perpetually , and to dissatisfy him very much . 
We called at the town of Erie , at eight o'clock that night , and lay there an hour . 
It was a miserable day chilly and raw a damp mist falling and the trees in that northern region quite bare and wintry . 
Within a few minutes of our stopping , not before , I saw two great white clouds rising up slowly and majestically from the depths of the earth . 
At length we alighted and then for the first time , I heard the mighty rush of water , and felt the ground tremble underneath my feet . 
The bank is very steep , and was slippery with rain , and half melted ice . 
We were at the foot of the American Fall . 
I could see an immense torrent of water tearing headlong down from some great height , but had no idea of shape , or situation , or anything but vague immensity . 
Then , when I felt how near to my Creator I was standing , the first effect , and the enduring one instant and lasting of the tremendous spectacle , was Peace . 
Peace of Mind , tranquillity , calm recollections of the Dead , great thoughts of Eternal Rest and Happiness nothing of gloom or terror . 
Niagara was at once stamped upon my heart , an Image of Beauty to remain there , changeless and indelible , until its pulses cease to beat , for ever . 
I never crossed the river again for I knew there were people on the other shore , and in such a place it is natural to shun strange company . 
Still , when the sun is on them , do they shine and glow like molten gold . 
CHAPTER XV IN CANADA TORONTO KINGSTON MONTREAL QUEBEC ST . 
For this reason , I shall confine myself to a very brief account of our journeyings in the latter territory . 
But before I leave Niagara , I must advert to one disgusting circumstance which can hardly have escaped the observation of any decent traveller who has visited the Falls . 
, and a reproach to the English side , on which they are preserved . 
The quarters of our soldiers at Niagara , are finely and airily situated . 
, is situated in a delicious valley , through which the Niagara river , in colour a very deep green , pursues its course . 
It is approached by a road that takes its winding way among the heights by which the town is sheltered and seen from this point is extremely beautiful and picturesque . 
It is of much higher importance than it may seem , that this statue should be repaired at the public cost , as it ought to have been long ago . 
He carried a small bundle over his shoulder , slung at the end of a walking stick , and had a short pipe in his mouth . 
I never saw such a good thing as the change that came over these soldiers in an instant . 
Almost before the man was down , their professional manner , their stiffness and constraint , were gone , and they were filled with the most violent energy . 
But the moment they set him upright and found that he was none the worse , they were soldiers again , looking over their glazed stocks more composedly than ever . 
Thence we emerged on Lake Ontario , an inland sea and by half past six o'clock were at Toronto . 
The country round this town being very flat , is bare of scenic interest but the town itself is full of life and motion , bustle , business , and improvement . 
The streets are well paved , and lighted with gas the houses are large and good the shops excellent . 
It has pretty good endowments in the way of land , and is a valuable and useful institution . 
The first stone of a new college had been laid but a few days before , by the Governor General . 
It will be a handsome , spacious edifice , approached by a long avenue , which is already planted and made available as a public walk . 
It is a matter of deep regret that political differences should have run high in this place , and led to most discreditable and disgraceful results . 
, was displayed again on the occasion of the public ceremony performed by the Governor General , to which I have just adverted . 
Of all the colours in the rainbow , there is but one which could be so employed I need not say that flag was orange . 
The time of leaving Toronto for Kingston is noon . 
Vast quantities of flour form the chief item in the freight of these vessels . 
We had no fewer than one thousand and eighty barrels on board , between Coburg and Kingston . 
Indeed , it may be said of Kingston , that one half of it appears to be burnt down , and the other half not to be built up . 
The Government House is neither elegant nor commodious , yet it is almost the only house of any importance in the neighbourhood . 
There is an admirable jail here , well and wisely governed , and excellently regulated , in every respect . 
The men were employed as shoemakers , ropemakers , blacksmiths , tailors , carpenters , and stonecutters and in building a new prison , which was pretty far advanced towards completion . 
The female prisoners were occupied in needlework . 
Among them was a beautiful girl of twenty , who had been there nearly three years . 
Setting forth on one of her patriotic missions , she appropriated to herself the first horse she could lay her hands on and this offence had brought her where I saw her . 
There is also a small navy yard , where a couple of Government steamboats were building , and getting on vigorously . 
We left Kingston for Montreal on the tenth of May , at half past nine in the morning , and proceeded in a steamboat down the St . 
The beauty of this noble stream at almost any point , but especially in the commencement of this journey when it winds its way among the thousand Islands , can hardly be imagined . 
In the afternoon we shot down some rapids where the river boiled and bubbled strangely , and where the force and headlong violence of the current were tremendous . 
The number and length of those PORTAGES , over which the roads are bad , and the travelling slow , render the way between the towns of Montreal and Kingston , somewhat tedious . 
Our course lay over a wide , uninclosed tract of country at a little distance from the river side , whence the bright warning lights on the dangerous parts of the St . 
The night was dark and raw , and the way dreary enough . 
It was nearly ten o'clock when we reached the wharf where the next steamboat lay and went on board , and to bed . 
She lay there all night , and started as soon as it was day . 
The morning was ushered in by a violent thunderstorm , and was very wet , but gradually improved and brightened up . 
I saw many of these rafts afterwards , but never one so large . 
All the timber , or 'lumber , as it is called in America , which is brought down the St . 
Lawrence , is floated down in this manner . 
When the raft reaches its place of destination , it is broken up the materials are sold and the boatmen return for more . 
There were Catholic Priests and Sisters of Charity in the village streets and images of the Saviour at the corners of cross roads , and in other public places . 
At noon we went on board another steamboat , and reached the village of Lachine , nine miles from Montreal , by three o'clock . 
There , we left the river , and went on by land . 
Montreal is pleasantly situated on the margin of the St . 
Lawrence , and is backed by some bold heights , about which there are charming rides and drives . 
The streets are generally narrow and irregular , as in most French towns of any age but in the more modern parts of the city , they are wide and airy . 
They display a great variety of very good shops and both in the town and suburbs there are many excellent private dwellings . 
The granite quays are remarkable for their beauty , solidity , and extent . 
There is a very large Catholic cathedral here , recently erected with two tall spires , of which one is yet unfinished . 
The Government House is very superior to that at Kingston , and the town is full of life and bustle . 
In one of the suburbs is a plank road not footpath five or six miles long , and a famous road it is too . 
The steamboats to Quebec perform the journey in the night that is to say , they leave Montreal at six in the evening , and arrive at Quebec at six next morning . 
, and were charmed by its interest and beauty . 
It is a place not to be forgotten or mixed up in the mind with other places , or altered for a moment in the crowd of scenes a traveller can recall . 
Apart from the realities of this most picturesque city , there are associations clustering about it which would make a desert rich in interest . 
That is a noble Monument too , and worthy of two great nations , which perpetuates the memory of both brave generals , and on which their names are jointly written . 
, and slept so close and thick about our cabin door , that the passage to and fro was quite blocked up . 
In many a noble mansion lives a man , the best of husbands and of fathers , whose private worth in both capacities is justly lauded to the skies . 
But bring him here , upon this crowded deck . 
We left Montreal for New York again , on the thirtieth of May , crossing to La Prairie , on the opposite shore of the St . 
Lawrence , in a steamboat we then took the railroad to St . 
John's , which is on the brink of Lake Champlain . 
and with 'Rule Britannia' sounding in our ears , soon left it far behind . 
But Canada has held , and always will retain , a foremost place in my remembrance . 
Few Englishmen are prepared to find it what it is . 
There is one American boat the vessel which carried us on Lake Champlain , from St . 
This steamboat , which is called the Burlington , is a perfectly exquisite achievement of neatness , elegance , and order . 
when no other conveyance was open to them . 
By means of this floating palace we were soon in the United States again , and called that evening at Burlington a pretty town , where we lay an hour or so . 
Its width is so contracted at one point , indeed , that they are obliged to warp round by means of a rope . 
But we slept soundly , notwithstanding , and soon after five o'clock next morning reached New York . 
Tarrying here , only that day and night , to recruit after our late fatigues , we started off once more upon our last journey in America . 
At one point , as we ascended a steep hill , athwart whose base a railroad , yet constructing , took its course , we came upon an Irish colony . 
With means at hand of building decent cabins , it was wonderful to see how clumsy , rough , and wretched , its hovels were . 
The house is very pleasantly situated , however , and we had a good breakfast . 
As nothing was to be urged in opposition to this reasonable arrangement , we requested leave to make some trifling purchases of Shaker goods which was grimly conceded . 
On the opposite side of the road was their place of worship a cool , clean edifice of wood , with large windows and green blinds like a spacious summer house . 
They accompany themselves with a droning , humming noise , and dance until they are quite exhausted , alternately advancing and retiring in a preposterous sort of trot . 
They are governed by a woman , and her rule is understood to be absolute , though she has the assistance of a council of elders . 
She lives , it is said , in strict seclusion , in certain rooms above the chapel , and is never shown to profane eyes . 
All the possessions and revenues of the settlement are thrown into a common stock , which is managed by the elders . 
Nor is this at Lebanon the only Shaker settlement there are , I think , at least , three others . 
They are good farmers , and all their produce is eagerly purchased and highly esteemed . 
'Shaker seeds , 'Shaker herbs , and 'Shaker distilled waters , are commonly announced for sale in the shops of towns and cities . 
They are good breeders of cattle , and are kind and merciful to the brute creation . 
Consequently , Shaker beasts seldom fail to find a ready market . 
They eat and drink together , after the Spartan model , at a great public table . 
There is no union of the sexes , and every Shaker , male and female , is devoted to a life of celibacy . 
In all matters they hold their own course quietly , live in their gloomy , silent commonwealth , and show little desire to interfere with other people . 
This is well enough , but nevertheless I cannot , I confess , incline towards the Shakers view them with much favour , or extend towards them any very lenient construction . 
It could not stand on more appropriate ground , and any ground more beautiful can hardly be . 
The course of education is severe , but well devised , and manly . 
Through June , July , and August , the young men encamp upon the spacious plain whereon the college stands and all the year their military exercises are performed there , daily . 
The number of cadets being about equal to that of the members of Congress , one is sent here from every Congressional district its member influencing the selection . 
Commissions in the service are distributed on the same principle . 
, and of serving the public meals at rather uncomfortable hours to wit , breakfast at seven , dinner at one , and supper at sunset . 
The beauty and freshness of this calm retreat , in the very dawn and greenness of summer it was then the beginning of June were exquisite indeed . 
In the after cabin we were only fifteen passengers in all , and the greater part were from Canada , where some of us had known each other . 
We breakfasted at eight , lunched at twelve , dined at three , and took our tea at half past seven . 
Then , we had chess for those who played it , whist , cribbage , books , backgammon , and shovelboard . 
The first mate , who whistled for it zealously , was much respected for his perseverance , and was regarded even by the unbelievers as a first rate sailor . 
There are always on board ship , a Sanguine One , and a Despondent One . 
These were additions to the list of entertaining incidents , but there was still another source of interest . 
The information we got on these heads from the carpenter , who had charge of these people , was often of the strangest kind . 
The whole system of shipping and conveying these unfortunate persons , is one that stands in need of thorough revision . 
If any class deserve to be protected and assisted by the Government , it is that class who are banished from their native land in search of the bare means of subsistence . 
All that could be done for these poor people by the great compassion and humanity of the captain and officers was done , but they require much more . 
The history of every family we had on board was pretty much the same . 
Enterprise was dull labourers were not wanted jobs of work were to be got , but the payment was not . 
They were coming back , even poorer than they went . 
One of the officers brought it to me as a curiosity . 
'This is the country , Jem , said the writer . 
There is no despotism here that's the great thing . 
Employment of all sorts is going a begging , and wages are capital . 
You have only to choose a trade , Jem , and be it . 
I haven't made choice of one yet , but I shall soon . 
AT PRESENT I HAVEN'T QUITE MADE UP MY MIND WHETHER TO BE A CARPENTER OR A TAILOR . 
There was yet another kind of passenger , and but one more , who , in the calm and the light winds , was a constant theme of conversation and observation among us . 
Towards evening , the weather turned hazy , with a drizzling rain and soon became so thick , that we sailed , as it were , in a cloud . 
Still we swept onward like a phantom ship , and many an eager eye glanced up to where the Look out on the mast kept watch for Holyhead . 
before every scrap of news in the paper he brought with him had become the common property of all on board . 
We turned in pretty late that night , and turned out pretty early next morning . 
By six o'clock we clustered on the deck , prepared to go ashore and looked upon the spires , and roofs , and smoke , of Liverpool . 
By eight we all sat down in one of its Hotels , to eat and drink together for the last time . 
And by nine we had shaken hands all round , and broken up our social company for ever . 
The country , by the railroad , seemed , as we rattled through it , like a luxuriant garden . 
, sufficient regard has not been had to the existence of the first class of persons and it has been contended that they are hardly used , in being confounded with the second . 
Still , it is to be feared that this injustice is inseparable from the state of things with which humanity and truth are called upon to deal . 
But it is not so bad , as you in England take it to be . 
You are deceived by the representations of the emancipationists . 
The greater part of my slaves are much attached to me . 
And why , then , do men tread them ? Because such inclinations are among the vicious qualities of mankind . 
Public opinion has made the laws , and denied the slaves legislative protection . 
Public opinion has knotted the lash , heated the branding iron , loaded the rifle , and shielded the murderer . 
Public opinion has , within a few years , burned a slave alive at a slow fire in the city of St . 
Public opinion ! what class of men have an immense preponderance over the rest of the community , in their power of representing public opinion in the legislature ? the slave owners . 
They send from their twelve States one hundred members , while the fourteen free States , with a free population nearly double , return but a hundred and forty two . 
Public opinion ! hear the public opinion of the free South , as expressed by its own members in the House of Representatives at Washington . 
Public opinion has made this law . 
The justice says , 'I choose to think this man a runaway and locks him up . 
But supposing he is a free black , and has no owner , it may naturally be presumed that he is set at liberty . 
No HE IS SOLD TO RECOMPENSE HIS JAILER . 
This has been done again , and again , and again . 
He has no means of proving his freedom has no adviser , messenger , or assistance of any sort or kind no investigation into his case is made , or inquiry instituted . 
This seems incredible , even of America , but it is the law . 
Public opinion is deferred to , in such cases as the following which is headed in the newspapers 'INTERESTING LAW CASE . 
'An interesting case is now on trial in the Supreme Court , arising out of the following facts . 
A gentleman residing in Maryland had allowed an aged pair of his slaves , substantial though not legal freedom for several years . 
THE OWNER SEIZED THE WOMAN AND HER CHILDREN ITS THE NIGHT , AND CARRIED THEM TO MARYLAND . 
'Cash for negroes , 'cash for negroes , 'cash for negroes , is the heading of advertisements in great capitals down the long columns of the crowded journals . 
The leading article protests against 'that abominable and hellish doctrine of abolition , which is repugnant alike to every law of God and nature . 
But the negroes , little and big , are protected by public opinion . 
The following are a few specimens of the advertisements in the public papers . 
It is only four years since the oldest among them appeared and others of the same nature continue to be published every day , in shoals . 
'Ran away , Negress Caroline . 
Had on a collar with one prong turned down . 
'Ran away , a black woman , Betsy . 
Had an iron bar on her right leg . 
'Ran away , the negro Manuel . 
'Ran away , the negress Fanny . 
Had on an iron band about her neck . 
'Ran away , a negro boy about twelve years old . 
Had round his neck a chain dog collar with De Lampert engraved on it . 
'Ran away , the negro Hown . 
Has a ring of iron on his left foot . 
Also , Grise , HIS WIFE , having a ring and chain on the left leg . 
'Ran away , a negro boy named James . 
Said boy was ironed when he left me . 
'Committed to jail , a man who calls his name John . 
He has a clog of iron on his right foot which will weigh four or five pounds . 
'Detained at the police jail , the negro wench , Myra . 
Has several marks of LASHING , and has irons on her feet . 
'Ran away , a negro woman and two children . 
A few days before she went off , I burnt her with a hot iron , on the left side of her face . 
'One hundred dollars reward , for a negro fellow , Pompey , years old . 
He is branded on the left jaw . 
'Committed to jail , a negro man . 
Has no toes on the left foot . 
'Ran away , a negro woman named Rachel . 
Has lost all her toes except the large one . 
He was shot a short time since through the hand , and has several shots in his left arm and side . 
'Ran away , my negro man Dennis . 
Said negro has been shot in the left arm between the shoulder and elbow , which has paralysed the left hand . 
'Ran away , my negro man named Simon . 
He has been shot badly , in his back and right arm . 
'Ran away , a negro named Arthur . 
Has a considerable scar across his breast and each arm , made by a knife loves to talk much of the goodness of God . 
'Twenty five dollars reward for my man Isaac . 
He has a scar on his forehead , caused by a blow and one on his back , made by a shot from a pistol . 
'Ran away , a negro girl called Mary . 
Has a small scar over her eye , a good many teeth missing , the letter A is branded on her cheek and forehead . 
'Ran away , negro Ben . 
Has a scar on his right hand his thumb and forefinger being injured by being shot last fall . 
A part of the bone came out . 
He has also one or two large scars on his back and hips . 
'Detained at the jail , a mulatto , named Tom . 
Has a scar on the right cheek , and appears to have been burned with powder on the face . 
'Ran away , a negro man named Ned . 
Three of his fingers are drawn into the palm of his hand by a cut . 
Has a scar on the back of his neck , nearly half round , done by a knife . 
'Was committed to jail , a negro man . 
Says his name is Josiah . 
His back very much scarred by the whip and branded on the thigh and hips in three or four places , thus . 
The rim of his right ear has been bit or cut off . 
'Fifty dollars reward , for my fellow Edward . 
He has a scar on the corner of his mouth , two cuts on and under his arm , and the letter E on his arm . 
'Ran away , negro boy Ellie . 
Has a scar on one of his arms from the bite of a dog . 
'Ran away , from the plantation of James Surgette , the following negroes Randal , has one ear cropped Bob , has lost one eye Kentucky Tom , has one jaw broken . 
One of his ears cut off , and his left hand cut with an axe . 
'Fifty dollars reward for the negro Jim Blake . 
Has a piece cut out of each ear , and the middle finger of the left hand cut off to the second joint . 
'Ran away , a negro woman named Maria . 
Has a scar on one side of her cheek , by a cut . 
Some scars on her back . 
'Ran away , the Mulatto wench Mary . 
Has a cut on the left arm , a scar on the left shoulder , and two upper teeth missing . 
To make them wear iron collars by day and night , and to worry them with dogs , are practices almost too ordinary to deserve mention . 
'Ran away , my man Fountain . 
'Two hundred and fifty dollars reward for my negro man Jim . 
He is much marked with shot in his right thigh . 
The shot entered on the outside , halfway between the hip and knee joints . 
'Brought to jail , John . 
'Taken up , a negro man . 
Is very much scarred about the face and body , and has the left ear bit off . 
'Ran away , a black girl , named Mary . 
Has a scar on her cheek , and the end of one of her toes cut off . 
'Ran away , my Mulatto woman , Judy . 
She has had her right arm broke . 
'Ran away , my negro man , Levi . 
His left hand has been burnt , and I think the end of his forefinger is off . 
'Ran away , a negro man , NAMED WASHINGTON . 
Has lost a part of his middle finger , and the end of his little finger . 
'Twenty five dollars reward for my man John . 
The tip of his nose is bit off . 
'Twenty five dollars reward for the negro slave , Sally . 
Walks AS THOUGH crippled in the back . 
'Ran away , Joe Dennis . 
Has a small notch in one of his ears . 
'Ran away , negro boy , Jack . 
Has a small crop out of his left ear . 
'Ran away , a negro man , named Ivory . 
Has a small piece cut out of the top of each ear . 
It was forwarded by the free and independent gentleman who had caused it to be amputated , with a polite request that he would place the specimen in his 'collection . 
The italics in these extracts , as in the foregoing , are my own . 
'By a slip from THE SOUTHPORT TELEGRAPH , Wisconsin , we learn that the Hon . 
Charles C. P. Arndt , Member of the Council for Brown county , was shot dead ON THE FLOOR OF THE COUNCIL CHAMBER , by James R. Vinyard , Member from Grant county . 
THE AFFAIR grew out of a nomination for Sheriff of Grant county . 
Mr. E. S. Baker was nominated and supported by Mr. Arndt . 
This nomination was opposed by Vinyard , who wanted the appointment to vest in his own brother . 
After the adjournment , Mr. A. stepped up to Vinyard , and requested him to retract , which he refused to do , repeating the offensive words . 
Mr. Arndt then made a blow at Vinyard , who stepped back a pace , drew a pistol , and shot him dead . 
Public indignation runs high in the territory of Wisconsin , in relation to the murder of C. C. P. Arndt , in the Legislative Hall of the Territory . 
Meetings have been held in different counties of Wisconsin , denouncing THE PRACTICE OF SECRETLY BEARING ARMS IN THE LEGISLATIVE CHAMBERS OF THE COUNTRY . 
The Miners' Free Press speaks IN TERMS OF MERITED REBUKE at the outrage upon the feelings of the people of Wisconsin . 
Vinyard was within arm's length of Mr. Arndt , when he took such deadly aim at him , that he never spoke . 
Vinyard might at pleasure , being so near , have only wounded him , but he chose to kill him . 
By a letter in a St . 
Louis paper of the th , we notice a terrible outrage at Burlington , Iowa . 
Mr. B. , though horribly wounded , and dying , returned the fire , and killed Ross on the spot . 
'TERRIBLE DEATH OF ROBERT POTTER . 
'From the Caddo Gazette , of the th inst . 
, we learn the frightful death of Colonel Robert Potter . 
He was beset in his house by an enemy , named Rose . 
He sprang from his couch , seized his gun , and , in his night clothes , rushed from the house . 
For about two hundred yards his speed seemed to defy his pursuers but , getting entangled in a thicket , he was captured . 
Rose told him THAT HE INTENDED TO ACT A GENEROUS PART , and give him a chance for his life . 
He then told Potter he might run , and he should not be interrupted till he reached a certain distance . 
Potter started at the word of command , and before a gun was fired he had reached the lake . 
His first impulse was to jump in the water and dive for it , which he did . 
Rose was close behind him , and formed his men on the bank ready to shoot him as he rose . 
, of Maysville , Benton , County Ark , in which the latter was slain with a bowie knife . 
Some difficulty had for some time existed between the parties . 
It is said that Major Gillespie brought on the attack with a cane . 
A severe conflict ensued , during which two pistols were fired by Gillespie and one by Loose . 
Loose then stabbed Gillespie with one of those never failing weapons , a bowie knife . 
The death of Major G. is much regretted , as he was a liberal minded and energetic man . 
Since the above was in type , we have learned that Major Allison has stated to some of our citizens in town that Mr. Loose gave the first blow . 
We forbear to give any particulars , as THE MATTER WILL BE THE SUBJECT OF JUDICIAL INVESTIGATION . 
Governor Baggs , it is stated in a written memorandum , was not dead , but mortally wounded . 
'Since the above was written , we received a note from the clerk of the Thames , giving the following particulars . 
Baggs was shot by some villain on Friday , th inst . 
, in the evening , while sitting in a room in his own house in Independence . 
Foot tracks were found in the garden below the window , and a pistol picked up supposed to have been overloaded , and thrown from the hand of the scoundrel who fired it . 
The Governor was still alive on the morning of the th but no hopes for his recovery by his friends , and but slight hopes from his physicians . 
'A man was suspected , and the Sheriff most probably has possession of him by this time . 
'The pistol was one of a pair stolen some days previous from a baker in Independence , and the legal authorities have the description of the other . 
'An unfortunate AFFAIR took place on Friday evening in Chatres Street , in which one of our most respectable citizens received a dangerous wound , from a poignard , in the abdomen . 
From the Bee of yesterday , we learn the following particulars . 
Some angry words then passed with one of the proprietors , and a challenge followed the friends of both parties tried to arrange the affair , but failed to do so . 
On Friday evening , about seven o'clock , Major Gally met Mr. P. Arpin in Chatres Street , and accosted him . 
Are you Mr. Arpin ? Yes , sir . 
I shall remind you of your words , sir . 
But I have said I would break my cane on your shoulders . 
I know it , but I have not yet received the blow . 
'Fears are entertained that the wound will be mortal . 
ARPIN HAS GIVEN SECURITY FOR HIS APPEARANCE AT THE CRIMINAL COURT TO ANSWER THE CHARGE . 
On the nd instant , there was an affray at Carthage between A. C. Sharkey and George Goff , in which the latter was shot , and thought mortally wounded . 
Sharkey delivered himself up to the authorities , BUT CHANGED HIS MIND AND ESCAPED ! 'PERSONAL ENCOUNTER . 
'An encounter took place in Sparta , a few days since , between the barkeeper of an hotel , and a man named Bury . 
He was not dead at the last accounts , but slight hopes were entertained of his recovery . 
According to the arrangement , the parties had six pistols each , which , after the word Fire ! THEY WERE TO DISCHARGE AS FAST AS THEY PLEASED . 
Fall fired two pistols without effect . 
Mr. Robbins' first shot took effect in Fall's thigh , who fell , and was unable to continue the combat . 
, near Waterloo , on Tuesday the th ult . 
, which originated in settling the partnership concerns of Messrs . 
M'Kane immediately fled AND AT THE LATEST DATES HAD NOT BEEN TAKEN . 
'THIS UNFORTUNATE AFFRAY caused considerable excitement in the neighbourhood , as both the parties were men with large families depending upon them and stood well in the community . 
I will quote but one more paragraph , which , by reason of its monstrous absurdity , may be a relief to these atrocious deeds . 
They were attended by young gentlemen of the same age . 
The weapons used on the occasion , were a couple of Dickson's best rifles the distance , thirty yards . 
They took one fire , without any damage being sustained by either party , except the ball of Thurston's gun passing through the crown of Hine's hat . 
THROUGH THE INTERCESSION OF THE BOARD OF HONOUR , the challenge was withdrawn , and the difference amicably adjusted . 
When knives are drawn by Englishmen in conflict let it be said and known 'We owe this change to Republican Slavery . 
These are the weapons of Freedom . 
My only object in the outset , was , to carry them with me faithfully wheresoever I went and that task I have discharged . 
They are , by nature , frank , brave , cordial , hospitable , and affectionate . 
These qualities are natural , I implicitly believe , to the whole people . 
It is an essential part of every national character to pique itself mightily upon its faults , and to deduce tokens of its virtue or its wisdom from their very exaggeration . 
One great blemish in the popular mind of America , and the prolific parent of an innumerable brood of evils , is Universal Distrust . 
'You carry , says the stranger , 'this jealousy and distrust into every transaction of public life . 
Every man thinks for himself , and we are not to be easily overreached . 
That's how our people come to be suspicious . 
'A convicted liar ? 'Yes , sir . 
'He has been kicked , and cuffed , and caned ? 'Yes , sir . 
'And he is utterly dishonourable , debased , and profligate ? 'Yes , sir . 
'In the name of wonder , then , what is his merit ? 'Well , sir , he is a smart man . 
These three characteristics are strongly presented at every turn , full in the stranger's view . 
But , the foul growth of America has a more tangled root than this and it strikes its fibres , deep in its licentious Press . 
Among the herd of journals which are published in the States , there are some , the reader scarcely need be told , of character and credit . 
From personal intercourse with accomplished gentlemen connected with publications of this class , I have derived both pleasure and profit . 
But the name of these is Few , and of the others Legion and the influence of the good , is powerless to counteract the moral poison of the bad . 
It is sometimes contended I will not say strangely , for it is natural to seek excuses for such a disgrace that their influence is not so great as a visitor would suppose . 
I must be pardoned for saying that there is no warrant for this plea , and that every fact and circumstance tends directly to the opposite conclusion . 
It would be well , there can be no doubt , for the American people as a whole , if they loved the Real less , and the Ideal somewhat more . 
It would be well , if there were greater encouragement to lightness of heart and gaiety , and a wider cultivation of what is beautiful , without being eminently and directly useful . 
They certainly are not a humorous people , and their temperament always impressed me is being of a dull and gloomy character . 
Once or twice it was comically developed , as in the following case but this was an amusing incident , and not the rule , or near it . 
He very kindly returned for answer , that he would 'look round' at six o'clock that evening . 
I complied , but looked with some curiosity at his hat , which was still upon his head . 
It might have been that , or it might have been the heat but he took it off . 
'You an't partickler , about this scoop in the heel , I suppose then ? says he 'we don't foller that , here . 
I repeated my last observation . 
He looked at himself in the glass again went closer to it to dash a grain or two of dust out of the corner of his eye and settled his cravat . 
All this time , my leg and foot were in the air . 
'Nearly ready , sir ? I inquired . 
'Well , pretty nigh , he said 'keep steady . 
When he had finished , he fell into his old attitude , and taking up the boot again , mused for some time . 
When he had been gone about a minute , the door reopened , and his hat and his head reappeared . 
He looked round the room , and at the boot again , which was still lying on the floor appeared thoughtful for a minute and then said 'Well , good arternoon . 
'Good afternoon , sir , said I and that was the end of the interview . 
There is but one other head on which I wish to offer a remark and that has reference to the public health . 
There is no local Legislature in America which may not study Mr. Chadwick's excellent Report upon the Sanitary Condition of our Labouring Classes , with immense advantage . 
I HAVE now arrived at the close of this book . 
For the rest , I put my trust , implicitly , in the spirit in which they have been conceived and penned and I can bide my time . 
And this I will do and cause to be done , not in mere love and thankfulness , but because I regard it as an act of plain justice and honour . 
I said these words with the greatest earnestness that I could lay upon them , and I repeat them in print here with equal earnestness . 
So long as this book shall last , I hope that they will form a part of it , and will be fairly read as inseparable from my experiences and impressions of America . 
Footnotes NOTE TO THE ORIGINAL EDITION . 
He will find some specimens there , by no means remarkable to any man who has been in America , but sufficiently striking to one who has not . 
