This etext was created by Judith Boss , Omaha , Nebraska . 
Six months previous to this Mr. Kipling , then but twenty four years old , had arrived in England from India to find that fame had preceded him . 
Fortunately for everybody who reads , London interested and stimulated Mr. Kipling , and he settled down to writing . 
In Mr. Kipling met the young author Wolcott Balestier , at that time connected with a London publishing house . 
The following year Mr. Kipling married Mr. Balestier's sister in London and brought her to America . 
The ancestral home of the Balestiers was near Brattleboro' , Vt . 
, and here Mr. Kipling brought his bride . 
The next spring Mr. Kipling purchased from his brother in law , Beatty Balestier , a tract of land about three miles north of Brattleboro' , Vt . 
, and on this erected a house at a cost of nearly , , which he named The Naulahka . 
This was his home during his sojourn in America . 
Here he wrote when in the mood , and for recreation tramped abroad over the hills . 
His social duties at this period were not arduous , for to his home he refused admittance to all but tried friends . 
He returned to England in August , , and did not visit America again till , when he came with his wife and three children for a limited time . 
They seem super sarcastic , and would lead one to believe that Mr. Kipling is antagonistic to America in every respect . 
This , however , is not true . 
Their very caustic style is of interest to a student and lover of Kipling , and for this reason the publishers believe them worthy of a good binding . 
THIS is what Bret Harte has written of the great city of San Francisco , and for the past fortnight I have been wondering what made him do it . 
There is neither serenity nor indifference to be found in these parts and evil would it be for the continents whose wardship were intrusted to so reckless a guardian . 
Behold me pitched neck and crop from twenty days of the high seas into the whirl of California , deprived of any guidance , and left to draw my own conclusions . 
Also , there was not a single American vessel of war in the harbor . 
This may sound bloodthirsty but remember , I had come with a grievance upon me the grievance of the pirated English books . 
Then a reporter leaped aboard , and ere I could gasp held me in his toils . 
He pumped me exhaustively while I was getting ashore , demanding of all things in the world news about Indian journalism . 
It is an awful thing to enter a new land with a new lie on your lips . 
I am sorry now that I did not tell him more lies as I passed into a city of three hundred thousand white men . 
You want to go to the Palace Hotel ? said an affable youth on a dray . 
What in hell are you doing here , then ? This is about the lowest ward in the city . 
Go six blocks north to corner of Geary and Markey , then walk around till you strike corner of Gutter and Sixteenth , and that brings you there . 
I do not vouch for the literal accuracy of these directions , quoting but from a disordered memory . 
But who am I that I should strike the corners of such as you name ? Peradventure they be gentlemen of repute , and might hit back . 
Bring it down to dots , my son . 
I thought he would have smitten me , but he didn't . 
Here a tram car , without any visible means of support , slid stealthily behind me and nearly struck me in the back . 
This was the famous cable car of San Francisco , which runs by gripping an endless wire rope sunk in the ground , and of which I will tell you more anon . 
A hundred yards further there was a slight commotion in the street , a gathering together of three or four , something that glittered as it moved very swiftly . 
The by standers went their ways , and the Chinaman , assisted by the policeman , his own . 
Of course this was none of my business , but I rather wanted to know what had happened to the gentleman who had dealt the stab . 
It said a great deal for the excellence of the municipal arrangement of the town that a surging crowd did not at once block the street to see what was going for ward . 
I was the sixth man and the last who assisted at the performance , and my curiosity was six times the greatest . 
Indeed , I felt ashamed of showing it . 
There were no more incidents till I reached the Palace Hotel , a seven storied warren of humanity with a thousand rooms in it . 
All the travel books will tell you about hotel arrangements in this country . 
They should be seen to be appreciated . 
Understand clearly and this letter is written after a thousand miles of experiences that money will not buy you service in the West . 
These performances , I gather , are to impress upon you that he is a free man and your equal . 
From his general appearance and the size of his diamonds he ought to be your superior . 
There is no necessity for this swaggering self consciousness of freedom . 
Business is business , and the man who is paid to attend to a man might reasonably devote his whole attention to the job . 
Out of office hours he can take his coach and four and pervade society if he pleases . 
Most of the men wore frock coats and top hats the things that we in India put on at a wedding break fast , if we possess them but they all spat . 
The spittoons were on the staircases , in each bedroom yea , and in chambers even more sacred than these . 
They chased one into retirement , but they blossomed in chiefest splendor round the bar , and they were all used , every reeking one of them . 
Just before I began to feel deathly sick another reporter grappled me . 
What he wanted to know was the precise area of India in square miles . 
I referred him to Whittaker . 
He had never heard of Whittaker . 
He wanted it from my own mouth , and I would not tell him . 
Then he swerved off , just like the other man , to details of journalism in our own country . 
I ventured to suggest that the interior economy of a paper most concerned the people who worked it . 
That's the very thing that interests us , he said . 
Have you got reporters anything like our reporters on Indian newspapers ? We have not , I said , and suppressed the thank God rising to my lips . 
Why haven't you ? said he . 
Because they would die , I said . 
It was exactly like talking to a child a very rude little child . 
He would begin almost every sentence with , Now tell me something about India , and would turn aimlessly from one question to the other without the least continuity . 
I was not angry , but keenly interested . 
The man was a revelation to me . 
To his questions I re turned answers mendacious and evasive . 
After all , it really did not matter what I said . 
I can only hope and pray that none of the readers of the Pioneer will ever see that portentous interview . 
Then , thought I , the matter of American journalism shall be looked into later on . 
At present I will enjoy myself . 
No man rose to tell me what were the lions of the place . 
No one volunteered any sort of conveyance . 
I was absolutely alone in this big city of white folk . 
It was the institution of the free lunch I had struck . 
You paid for a drink and got as much as you wanted to eat . 
For something less than a rupee a day a man can feed himself sumptuously in San Francisco , even though he be a bankrupt . 
Remember this if ever you are stranded in these parts . 
Later I began a vast but unsystematic exploration of the streets . 
I asked for no names . 
It was enough that the pavements were full of white men and women , the streets clanging with traffic , and that the restful roar of a great city rang in my ears . 
The cable cars glided to all points of the compass at once . 
I took them one by one till I could go no further . 
San Francisco has been pitched down on the sand bunkers of the Bikaneer desert . 
About one fourth of it is ground reclaimed from the sea any old timers will tell you all about that . 
The remainder is just ragged , unthrifty sand hills , to day pegged down by houses . 
From an English point of view there has not been the least attempt at grading those hills , and indeed you might as well try to grade the hillocks of Sind . 
The cable cars have for all practical purposes made San Francisco a dead level . 
They take no count of rise or fall , but slide equably on their appointed courses from one end to the other of a six mile street . 
They turn corners almost at right angles , cross other lines , and for aught I know may run up the sides of houses . 
I gave up asking questions . 
, each house just big enough for a man and his family . 
Let me watch the people in the cars and try to find out in what manner they differ from us , their ancestors . 
, because I perceived that my curse is working and that their speech is be coming a horror already . 
They delude them selves into the belief that they talk English the English and I have already been pitied for speaking with an English accent . 
The man who pitied me spoke , so far as I was concerned , the language of thieves . 
They stole books from across the water without paying for 'em , and the snort of delight was fixed in their nostrils forever by a just Providence . 
That is why they talk a foreign tongue to day . 
Cats is dogs , and rabbits is dogs , and so's parrots . 
But this 'ere tortoise is an insect , so there ain't no charge , as the old porter said . 
A Hindoo is a Hindoo and a brother to the man who knows his vernacular . 
And a French man is French because he speaks his own language . 
But the American has no language . 
He is dialect , slang , provincialism , accent , and so forth . 
Get an American lady to read to you How Santa Claus Came to Simpson's Bar , and see how much is , under her tongue , left of the beauty of the original . 
But I am sorry for Bret Harte . 
A reporter asked me what I thought of the city , and I made answer suavely that it was hallowed ground to me , because of Bret Harte . 
Well , said the reporter , Bret Harte claims California , but California don't claim Bret Harte . 
He's been so long in England that he's quite English . 
I never intended to curse the people with a provincialism so vast as this . 
But let us return to our sheep which means the sea lions of the Cliff House . 
They are the great show of San Francisco . 
, and you pull up somewhere at the back of the city on the Pacific beach . 
Originally the cliffs and their approaches must have been pretty , but they have been so carefully defiled with advertisements that they are now one big blistered abomination . 
A hundred yards from the shore stood a big rock covered with the carcasses of the sleek sea beasts , who roared and rolled and walloped in the spouting surges . 
No bold man had painted the creatures sky blue or advertised news papers on their backs , wherefore they did not match the landscape , which was chiefly hoarding . 
Some day , perhaps , whatever sort of government may obtain in this country will make a restoration of the place and keep it clean and neat . 
At present the sovereign people , of whom I have heard so much already , are vending cherries and painting the virtues of Little Bile Beans all over it . 
Night fell over the Pacific , and the white sea fog whipped through the streets , dimming the splendors of the electric lights . 
Here the click of high heels on the pavement is loudest , here the lights are brightest , and here the thunder of the traffic is most overwhelming . 
I watched Young California , and saw that it was , at least , expensively dressed , cheerful in manner , and self asserting in conversation . 
Also the women were very fair . 
Perhaps eighteen days aboard ship had something to do with my unreserved admiration . 
The maidens were of generous build , large , well groomed , and attired in raiment that even to my inexperienced eyes must have cost much . 
Cairn Street at nine o'clock levels all distinctions of rank as impartially as the grave . 
This was depressing because , in spite of all that goes to the contrary , fine feathers ought to make fine birds . 
There was wealth unlimited wealth in the streets , but not an accent that would not have been dear at fifty cents . 
There appeared before me an affable stranger of prepossessing appearance , with a blue and an innocent eye . 
Addressing me by name , he claimed to have met me in New York , at the Windsor , and to this claim I gave a qualified assent . 
I did not remember the fact , but since he was so certain of it , why , then I waited developments . 
And what did you think of Indiana when you came through ? was the next question . 
It revealed the mystery of previous acquaintance and one or two other things . 
With reprehensible carelessness my friend of the light blue eye had looked up the name of his victim in the hotel register , and read Indiana for India . 
The provincialism with which I had cursed his people extended to himself . 
He could not imagine an Englishman coming through the States from west to east instead of by the regularly ordained route . 
My fear was that in his delight in finding me so responsive he would make remarks about New York and the Windsor which I could not understand . 
It is trying to talk unknown New York in almost unknown San Francisco . 
But my friend was merciful . 
He protested that I was one after his own heart , and pressed upon me rare and curious drinks at more than one bar . 
These drinks I accepted with gratitude , as also the cigars with which his pockets were stored . 
He would show me the life of the city . 
Having no desire to watch a weary old play again , I evaded the offer and received in lieu of the devil's instruction much coarse flattery . 
Curiously constituted is the soul of man . 
All this pleased me , and in a measure numbed the suspicion that was thoroughly aroused . 
Hereupon I laid my head upon one side and simulated unholy wisdom , quoting odds and ends of poker talk , all ludicrously misapplied . 
Would I play ? Nay , said I , for to me cards have neither meaning nor continuity but let us assume that I am going to play . 
My blue eyed friend erected himself into an obelisk of profanity . 
He cursed me by his gods the right and left bower he even cursed the very good cigars he had given me . 
But , the storm over , he quieted down and explained . 
I apologized for causing him to waste an evening , and we spent a very pleasant time together . 
I wouldn't have taken the trouble to make you drunk . 
You never knew anything of the game , but how I was mistaken in going to work on you , makes me sick . 
He glared at me as though I had done him an injury . 
He clavers them over with flattery as the snake clavers the rabbit . 
The incident depressed me because it showed I had left the innocent East far behind and was come to a country where a man must look out for himself . 
The very hotels bristled with notices about keeping my door locked and depositing my valuables in a safe . 
The white man in a lump is bad . 
I fell asleep in the clanging hotel . 
Next morning I had entered upon the deferred inheritance . 
There are no princes in America at least with crowns on their heads but a generous minded member of some royal family received my letter of introduction . 
Ere the day closed I was a member of the two clubs , and booked for many engagements to dinner and party . 
Do you know the Bohemian Club of San Francisco ? They say its fame extends over the world . 
It was created , somewhat on the lines of the Savage , by men who wrote or drew things , and has blossomed into most unrepublican luxury . 
He is an ancient and honorable bird . 
Mine were all the rights of social intercourse , craft by craft , that India , stony hearted step mother of collectors , has swindled us out of . 
There was a slick French audacity about the workmanship of these men of toil unbending that went straight to the heart of the beholder . 
And yet it was not altogether French . 
A dry grimness of treatment , almost Dutch , marked the difference . 
The men painted as they spoke with certainty . 
The club indulges in revelries which it calls jinks high and low , at intervals and each of these gatherings is faithfully portrayed in oils by hands that know their business . 
They extended a large hand of welcome , and were as brethren , and I did homage to the owl and listened to their talk . 
Tales of the Law , which in this country is an amazingly elastic affair , followed from the lips of a judge . 
Forgive me for recording one tale that struck me as new . 
It may interest the up country Bar in India . 
Once upon a time there was Samuelson , a young lawyer , who feared not God , neither regarded the Bench . 
They could , in fact , gambol round that murder . 
They met the court in its shirt sleeves and against the raw square of the Court House window a temptingly suggestive branch of a tree fretted the sky . 
No one appeared for the prisoner , and , partly in jest , the court advised young Samuelson to take up the case . 
The prisoner is undefended , Sam , said the court . 
The square thing to do would be for you to take him aside and do the best you can for him . 
Court , jury , and witness then adjourned to the veranda , while Samuelson led his client aside to the Court House cells . 
An hour passed ere the lawyer returned alone . 
May it p p please the c court , said Samuel son , my client's case is a b b b bad one a d d amn bad one . 
B by this time my client's 'bout fifteen mile out yonder somewheres . 
That was the b b best I could do for him , may it p p please the court . 
The young man , escaping punishment in lieu of the prisoner , made his fortune ere five years . 
, of deaths sudden and violent in Montana and Dakota , of the loves of half breed maidens in the South , and fantastic huntings for gold in mysterious Alaska . 
Very terrible were some of the tales , grimly humorous the others , and the men in broadcloth and fine linen who told them had played their parts in them . 
And now and again when things got too bad they would toll the city bell , and the Vigilance Committee turned out and hanged the suspicious characters . 
A man didn't begin to be suspected in those days till he had committed at least one unprovoked murder , said a calm eyed , portly old gentleman . 
I looked at the pictures around me , the noiseless , neat uniformed waiter behind me , the oak ribbed ceiling above , the velvet carpet beneath . 
It was hard to realize that even twenty years ago you could see a man hanged with great pomp . 
Later on I found reason to change my opinion . 
The tales gave me a headache and set me thinking . 
It is an omen , said I. He has done all things in all seriousness , and he may be purchased for half a guinea . 
Those who desire information of the most undoubted , must refer to his pages . 
For me is the daily round of vagabondage , the recording of the incidents of the hour and inter course with the travelling companion of the day . 
I will not 'do' this country at all . 
I was speaking to a newspaper man about seeing the proprietor of his journal , as in my innocence I supposed newspaper men occasionally did . 
This he called a statement or purview of American politics . 
I went almost directly afterward to a saloon where gentlemen interested in ward politics nightly congregate . 
They were not pretty persons . 
The magazine writer discussed theories of government these men the practice . 
They knew all about it . 
They banged their fists on the table and spoke of political pulls , the vending of votes , and so forth . 
I listened long and intently to speech I could not understand or but in spots . 
It was the speech of business , however . 
I had sense enough to know that , and to do my laughing outside the door . 
Read about politics as the cultured writer of the magazine regards 'em , and then , and not till then , pay your respects to the gentlemen who run the grimy reality . 
I prefer to believe that my informants are treating me as in the old sinful days in India I was used to treat the wandering globe trotter . 
They declare that they speak the truth , and the news of dog politics lately vouchsafed to me in groggeries inclines me to believe , but I won't . 
The people are much too nice to slangander as recklessly as I have been doing . 
Besides , I am hopelessly in love with about eight American maidens all perfectly delightful till the next one comes into the room . 
O Toyo was a darling , but she lacked several things conversation for one . 
You cannot live on giggles . 
And she is but one of many stars . 
Item , a maiden who believes in education and possesses it , with a few hundred thousand dollars to boot and a taste for slumming . 
Item , a very small maiden , absolutely without reverence , who can in one swift sentence trample upon and leave gasping half a dozen young men . 
Item , a girl in a dive , blessed with a Greek head and eyes , that seem to speak all that is best and sweetest in the world . 
, and protests that she sings the songs allotted to her nightly without more than the vaguest notion of their meaning . 
They are clever , they can talk yea , it is said that they think . 
Certainly they have an appearance of so doing which is delightfully deceptive . 
They are original , and regard you between the brows with unabashed eyes as a sister might look at her brother . 
They possess , moreover , a life among themselves , independent of any masculine associations . 
They have societies and clubs and unlimited tea fights where all the guests are girls . 
They are self possessed , without parting with any tenderness that is their sex right they understand they can take care of themselves they are superbly independent . 
When you ask them what makes them so charming , they say It is because we are better educated than your girls , and and we are more sensible in regard to men . 
We have good times all round , but we aren't taught to regard every man as a possible husband . 
Nor is he expected to marry the first girl he calls on regularly . 
Yes , they have good times , their freedom is large , and they do not abuse it . 
As certain , also , of their own poets have said Man is fire and woman is tow , And the devil he comes and begins to blow . 
But the freedom of the young girl has its draw backs . 
She is I say it with all reluctance irreverent , from her forty dollar bonnet to the buckles in her eighteen dollar shoes . 
She talks flippantly to her parents and men old enough to be her grandfather . 
She has a prescriptive right to the society of the man who arrives . 
In five minutes your host has vanished . 
In another five his wife has followed him , and you are left alone with a very charming maiden , doubtless , but certainly not the person you came to see . 
She chatters , and you grin , but you leave with the very strong impression of a wasted morning . 
This has been my experience once or twice . 
I have even said as pointedly as I dared to a man I came to see you . 
You'd better see me in my office , then . 
The house belongs to my women folk to my daughter , that is to say . 
The American of wealth is owned by his family . 
They exploit him for bullion . 
The women get the ha'pence , the kicks are all his own . 
Nothing is too good for an American's daughter . 
I have heard many tales of heroism from the lips of girls who counted the principals among their friends . 
And did I drop her from the list of my friends ? No , sir , said a scarlet lipped vision in white lace that might happen to us any day . 
It may be this sense of possible disaster in the air that makes San Francisco society go with so captivating a rush and whirl . 
Recklessness is in the air . 
I can't explain where it comes from , but there it is . 
The roaring winds of the Pacific make you drunk to begin with . 
as long as money lasts . 
They make greatly and they spend lavishly not only the rich , but the artisans , who pay nearly five pounds for a suit of clothes , and for other luxuries in proportion . 
The young men rejoice in the days of their youth . 
At twenty they are experienced in business , embark in vast enterprises , take partners as experienced as themselves , and go to pieces with as much splendor as their neighbors . 
Remember that the men who stocked California in the fifties were physically , and , as far as regards certain tough virtues , the pick of the earth . 
The inept and the weakly died en route , or went under in the days of construction . 
To this nucleus were added all the races of the Continent French , Italian , German , and , of course , the Jew . 
The result you can see in the large boned , deep chested , delicate handed women , and long , elastic , well built boys . 
It needs no little golden badge swinging from the watch chain to mark the native son of the golden West , the country bred of California . 
Him I love because he is devoid of fear , carries himself like a man , and has a heart as big as his books . 
I fancy , too , he knows how to enjoy the blessings of life that his province so abundantly bestows upon him . 
At least , I heard a little rat of a creature with hock bottle shoulders explaining that a man from Chicago could pull the eye teeth of a Californian in business . 
The tale of the resources of California vegetable and mineral is a fairy tale . 
You can read it in books . 
You would never believe me . 
All manner of nourishing food , from sea fish to beef , may be bought at the lowest prices , and the people are consequently well developed and of a high stomach . 
When they disagree they do so fatally , with fire arms in their hands , and on the public streets . 
I was just clear of Mission Street when the trouble began between two gentlemen , one of whom perforated the other . 
When a policeman , whose name I do not recollect , fatally shot Ed Hearney for attempting to escape arrest , I was in the next street . 
For these things I am thankful . 
It is enough to travel with a policeman in a tram car , and , while he arranges his coat tails as he sits down , to catch sight of a loaded revolver . 
It is enough to know that fifty per cent of the men in the public saloons carry pistols about them . 
The Chinaman waylays his adversary , and methodically chops him to pieces with his hatchet . 
Then the press roars about the brutal ferocity of the pagan . 
The Italian reconstructs his friend with a long knife . 
The press complains of the waywardness of the alien . 
The Irishman and the native Californian in their hours of discontent use the revolver , not once , but six times . 
The press records the fact , and asks in the next column whether the world can parallel the progress of San Francisco . 
The American who loves his country will tell you that this sort of thing is confined to the lower classes . 
is breathing red hot vengeance against his enemy . 
The papers have interviewed both parties , and confidently expect a fatal issue . 
Now , let me draw breath and curse the negro waiter , and through him the negro in service generally . 
He has been made a citizen with a vote , consequently both political parties play with him . 
But that is neither here nor there . 
He will commit in one meal every betise that a senllion fresh from the plow tail is capable of , and he will continue to repeat those faults . 
He is as complete a heavy footed , uncomprehending , bungle fisted fool as any mem sahib in the East ever took into her establishment . 
But he is according to law a free and independent citizen consequently above reproof or criticism . 
He is untrained , inept , but he will fill the place and draw the pay . 
Now , God and his father's fate made him intellectually inferior to the Oriental . 
He insists on pretending that he serves tables by accident as a sort of amusement . 
He wishes you to understand this little fact . 
You wish to eat your meals , and , if possible , to have them properly served . 
He is a big , black , vain baby and a man rolled into one . 
A colored gentleman who insisted on getting me pie when I wanted something else , demanded information about India . 
I gave him some facts about wages . 
Oh , hell ! said he , cheerfully , that wouldn't keep me in cigars for a month . 
Then he fawned on me for a ten cent piece . 
Later he took it upon himself to pity the natives of India . 
Heathens , he called them this woolly one , whose race has been the butt of every comedy on the native stage since the beginning . 
And I turned and saw by the head upon his shoulders that he was a Yoruba man , if there be any truth in ethnological castes . 
He did his thinking in English , but he was a Yoruba negro , and the race type had remained the same through out his generations . 
, some duplicates of Cameroon heads , and some Kroomen , if ever Kroomen wore evening dress . 
The American does not consider little matters of descent , though by this time he ought to know all about damnable heredity . 
As a general rule he keeps himself very far from the negro , and says things about him that are not pretty . 
There are six million negroes , more or less , in the States , and they are increasing . 
The American , once having made them citizens , cannot unmake them . 
He says , in his newspapers , they ought to be elevated by education . 
He is trying this , but it is likely to be a long job , because black blood is much more adhesive than white , and throws back with annoying persistence . 
When the negro gets religion he returns directly as a hiving bee to the first instincts of his people . 
Just now a wave of religion is sweeping over some of the Southern States . 
Up to the present two Messiahs and a Daniel have appeared , and several human sacrifices have been offered up to these incarnations . 
The Daniel managed to get three young men , who he insisted were Shadrach , Meshach , and Abednego , to walk into a blast furnace , guaranteeing non combustion . 
I have seen nothing of this kind , but I have attended a negro church . 
They pray , or are caused to pray by themselves in this country . 
The congregation were moved by the spirit to groans and tears , and one of them danced up the aisle to the mourners' bench . 
The motive may have been genuine . 
praying to a God he did not understand . 
Those neatly dressed folk on the benches , and the gray headed elder by the window , were savages , neither more nor less . 
What will the American do with the negro ? The South will not consort with him . 
In some States miscegenation is a penal offence . 
The North is every year less and less in need of his services . 
And he will not disappear . 
He will continue as a problem . 
His friends will urge that he is as good as the white man . 
His enemies well , you can guess what his enemies will do from a little incident that followed on a recent appointment by the President . 
The Southern chivalry howled , and hanged or burned some one in effigy . 
Perhaps it was the President , and perhaps it was the negro but the principle remains the same . 
They said it was an insult . 
It is not good to be a negro in the land of the free and the home of the brave . 
But this is nothing to do with San Francisco and her merry maidens , her strong , swaggering men , and her wealth of gold and pride . 
On that occasion 'twas at the Bohemian Club I heard oratory with the roundest of o's , and devoured a dinner the memory of which will descend with me into the hungry grave . 
There were about forty speeches delivered , and not one of them was average or ordinary . 
It was my first introduction to the American eagle screaming for all it was worth . 
The lieutenant's heroism served as a peg from which the silver tongued ones turned themselves loose and kicked . 
Never since the morning stars sung together for joy , I learned , had an amazed creation witnessed such superhuman bravery as that displayed by the American navy in the Samoa cyclone . 
Till earth rotted in the phosphorescent star and stripe slime of a decayed universe , that god like gallantry would not be forgotten . 
I grieve that I cannot give the exact words . 
My attempt at reproducing their spirit is pale and inadequate . 
I sat bewildered on a coruscating Niagara of blatherum skite . 
It was magnificent it was stupendous and I was conscious of a wicked desire to hide my face in a napkin and grin . 
, with her chain of fortresses across the world . 
Thereafter they glorified their nation afresh from the beginning , in case any detail should have been overlooked , and that made me uncomfortable for their sakes . 
My hosts talked for rather more than three hours , and at the end seemed ready for three hours more . 
But when the lieutenant such a big , brave , gentle giant rose to his feet , he delivered what seemed to me as the speech of the evening . 
Wallah ! He was a man . 
The prince among merchants bid me take no heed to the warlike sentiments of some of the old generals . 
The sky rockets are thrown in for effect , quoth he , and whenever we get on our hind legs we always express a desire to chaw up England . 
It's a sort of family affair . 
And , indeed , when you come to think of it , there is no other country for the American public speaker to trample upon . 
France has Germany we have Russia for Italy Austria is provided and the humblest Pathan possesses an ancestral enemy . 
Only America stands out of the racket , and there fore to be in fashion makes a sand bag of the mother country , and hangs her when occasion requires . 
The chain of fortresses man , a fascinating talker , explained to me after the affair that he was compelled to blow off steam . 
When we had chanted The Star Spangled Banner not more than eight times , we adjourned . 
America is a very great country , but it is not yet heaven , with electric lights and plush fittings , as the speakers professed to believe . 
My listening mind went back to the politicians in the saloon , who wasted no time in talking about freedom , but quietly made arrangements to impose their will on the citizens . 
The judge is a great man , but give thy presents to the clerk , as the proverb saith . 
And what more remains to tell ? I cannot write connectedly , because I am in love with all those girls aforesaid , and some others who do not appear in the invoice . 
The typewriter is an in stitution of which the comic papers make much capital , but she is vastly convenient . 
She and a companion rent a room in a business quarter , and , aided by a typewriting machine , copy MSS . 
at the rate of six annas a page . 
Only a woman can operate a typewriting machine , because she has served apprenticeship to the sewing machine . 
She can earn as much as one hundred dollars a month , and professes to regard this form of bread winning as her natural destiny . 
They liked it indeed they did . 
'Twas the natural fate of almost all girls the recognized custom in America and I was a barbarian not to see it in that light . 
Well , and after ? said I. What happens ? We work for our bread . 
And then what do you expect ? Then we shall work for our bread . 
Till you die ? Ye es unless Unless what ? This is your business , you know . 
A man works until he dies . 
So shall we this without enthusiasm I suppose . 
Said the partner in the firm , audaciously Sometimes we marry our employees at least , that's what the newspapers say . 
The hand banged on half a dozen of the keys of the machine at once . 
I hate it I hate it I hate it and you needn't look so ! The senior partner was regarding the rebel with grave eyed reproach . 
I thought you did , said I. I don't suppose American girls are much different from English ones in instinct . 
A mission should be established . 
III American Salmon The race is neither to the swift nor the battle to the strong but time and chance cometh to all . 
When the proprietor of the wheel announced that his take was two thousand two hundred and thirty pounds weight of fish , and not a heavy catch neither , I thought he lied . 
They were all Chenook salmon , as distinguished from the steel head and the silver side . 
The steamer halted at a rude wooden warehouse built on piles in a lonely reach of the river , and sent in the fish . 
I followed them up a scale strewn , fishy incline that led to the cannery . 
Only Chinamen were employed on the work , and they looked like blood besmeared yellow devils as they crossed the rifts of sunlight that lay upon the floor . 
When our consignment arrived , the rough wooden boxes broke of themselves as they were dumped down under a jet of water , and the salmon burst out in a stream of quicksilver . 
The headless fish leaped from under his hands as though they were facing a rapid . 
Other Chinamen pulled them from the vat and thrust them under a thing like a chaff cutter , which , descending , hewed them into unseemly red gobbets fit for the can . 
More Chinamen , with yellow , crooked fingers , jammed the stuff into the cans , which slid down some marvellous machine forthwith , soldering their own tops as they passed . 
Each can was hastily tested for flaws , and then sunk with a hundred companions into a vat of boiling water , there to be half cooked for a few minutes . 
The cans bulged slightly after the operation , and were therefore slidden along by the trolleyful to men with needles and soldering irons who vented them and soldered the aperture . 
Except for the label , the Finest Columbia Salmon was ready for the market . 
I was impressed not so much with the speed of the manufacture as the character of the factory . 
Inside , on a floor ninety by forty , the most civilized and murderous of machinery . 
Outside , three footsteps , the thick growing pines and the immense solitude of the hills . 
And California , his coat tails flying in the wind , ran to a livery stable and chartered a wagon and team forthwith . 
I could push the wagon about with one hand , so light was its structure . 
The team was purely American that is to say , almost human in its intelligence and docility . 
Some one said that the roads were not good on the way to Clackamas , and warned us against smashing the springs . 
a plank road that would have been a disgrace to an Irish village . 
Then six miles of macadamized road showed us that the team could move . 
A railway ran between us and the banks of the Willamette , and another above us through the mountains . 
The men generally looked like loafers , but their women were all well dressed . 
Brown braiding on a tailor made jacket does not , however , consort with hay wagons . 
Then we struck into the woods along what California called a camina reale a good road and Portland a fair track . 
But nowhere throughout its length did I see any evidence of road making . 
There was a track you couldn't well get off it , and it was all you could do to stay on it . 
The dust lay a foot thick in the blind ruts , and under the dust we found bits of planking and bundles of brushwood that sent the wagon bounding into the air . 
The journey in itself was a delight . 
Then , with oaths and the sound of rent underwood , a yoke of mighty bulls would swing down a skid road , hauling a forty foot log along a rudely made slide . 
They had been fishing , and were our brethren , therefore . 
The weir had been erected to pen the Chenook salmon from going further up stream . 
We could see them , twenty or thirty pounds , by the score in the deep pools , or flying madly against the weir and foolishly skinning their noses . 
They were not our prey , for they would not rise at a fly , and we knew it . 
He held the gaff and the whiskey . 
California sniffed up stream and down stream , across the racing water , chose his ground , and let the gaudy fly drop in the tail of a riffle . 
The salmon tore up stream , the tense line cutting the water like a tide rip behind him , and the light bamboo bowed to breaking . 
What happened thereafter I cannot tell . 
We landed him in a little bay , and the spring weight in his gorgeous gills checked at eleven and one half pounds . 
The next cast ah , the pride of it , the regal splendor of it ! the thrill that ran down from finger tip to toe ! Then the water boiled . 
He broke for the fly and got it . 
My thumb was burned deep when I strove to stopper the line . 
I did not feel it till later , for my soul was out in the dancing weir , praying for him to turn ere he took my tackle away . 
And the prayer was heard . 
Like California's fish , he ran at me head on , and leaped against the line , but the Lord gave me two hundred and fifty pairs of fingers in that hour . 
California was further up the reach , and with the corner of my eye I could see him casting with long casts and much skill . 
The first wild enthusiasm of capture had died away . 
Portland bid us both be of good heart , and volunteered to take the rod from my hands . 
I would rather have died among the pebbles than surrender my right to play and land a salmon , weight unknown , with an eight ounce rod . 
I heard California , at my ear , it seemed , gasping He's a fighter from Fightersville , sure ! as his fish made a fresh break across the stream . 
As I drew breath the weary hands slackened their hold , and I forgot to give him the butt . 
Worst of all , I was blocking California's path to the little landing bay aforesaid , and he had to halt and tire his prize where he was . 
The father of all the salmon ! he shouted . 
For the love of Heaven , get your trout to bank , Johnny Bull ! But I could do no more . 
Even the insult failed to move me . 
The rest of the game was with the salmon . 
He suffered himself to be drawn , skip ping with pretended delight at getting to the haven where I would fain bring him . 
A dozen times , at least , this happened ere the line hinted he had given up the battle and would be towed in . 
The landing net was useless for one of his size , and I would not have him gaffed . 
California had taken my place in the shallows , his fish hard held . 
I was up the bank lying full length on the sweet scented grass and gasping in company with my first salmon caught , played and landed on an eight ounce rod . 
That hour I sat among princes and crowned heads greater than them all . 
Below the bank we heard California scuffling with his salmon and swearing Spanish oaths . 
Portland and I assisted at the capture , and the fish dragged the spring balance out by the roots . 
It was only constructed to weigh up to fifteen pounds . 
Then Portland took my rod and caught some ten pounders , and my spoon was carried away by an unknown leviathan . 
Each fish , for the merits of the three that had died so gamely , was hastily hooked on the balance and flung back . 
Portland recorded the weight in a pocket book , for he was a real estate man . 
Each fish fought for all he was worth , and none more savagely than the smallest , a game little six pounder . 
At the end of six hours we added up the list . 
Total Sixteen fish aggregate weight , one hundred and forty pounds . 
The old farmer recollected days and nights of fierce warfare with the Indians way back in the fifties , when every ripple of the Columbia River and her tributaries hid covert danger . 
His wife was an austere woman , who had once been kindly , and perhaps handsome . 
Very many years of toil had taken the elasticity out of step and voice . 
She looked for nothing better than everlasting work the chafing detail of housework and then a grave somewhere up the hill among the blackberries and the pines . 
We stumbled into the household at a crisis , and there was a deal of downright humanity in that same . 
It was a genuine little tragedy . 
The mother , in a heavy , passionless voice , rebuked her impatience , yet sat up far into the night , bowed over a heap of sewing for the daughter's benefit . 
You can try to piece out for yourselves what sort of stories they were . 
IV The Yellowstone ONCE upon a time there was a carter who brought his team and a friend into the Yellowstone Park without due thought . 
Presently they came upon a few of the natural beauties of the place , and that carter turned his team into his friend's team , howling Get out o' this , Jim . 
All hell's alight under our noses ! And they called the place Hell's Half Acre to this day to witness if the carter lied . 
The places smelled of the refuse of the pit , and that odor mixed with the clean , wholesome aroma of the pines in our nostrils throughout the day . 
This Yellowstone Park is laid out like Ollendorf , in exercises of progressive difficulty . 
Hell's Half Acre was a prelude to ten or twelve miles of geyser formation . 
Imagine mighty green fields splattered with lime beds , all the flowers of the summer growing up to the very edge of the lime . 
That was our first glimpse of the geyser basins . 
The buggy had pulled up close to a rough , broken , blistered cone of spelter stuff between ten and twenty feet high . 
There was trouble in that place moaning , splashing , gurgling , and the clank of machinery . 
A spurt of boiling water jumped into the air , and a wash of water followed . 
The old lady from Chicago shrieked . 
What a wicked waste ! said her husband . 
I think they call it the Riverside Geyser . 
Its spout was torn and ragged like the mouth of a gun when a shell has burst there . 
It grumbled madly for a moment or two , and then was still . 
I crept over the steaming lime it was the burning marl on which Satan lay and looked fearfully down its mouth . 
You should never look a gift geyser in the mouth . 
I beheld a horrible , slippery , slimy funnel with water rising and falling ten feet at a time . 
Mark the nature of the human soul ! I had begun with awe , not to say terror , for this was my first experience of such things . 
We drifted on , up that miraculous valley . 
On either side of us were hills from a thousand or fifteen hundred feet high , wooded from crest to heel . 
America is a free country , but the citizens look down on the soldier . 
I had to entertain that trooper . 
And why did you enlist ? said I. The moon faced one's face began to work . 
She was a simple village wife , but a wicked family novelette countess couldn't have accomplished her ends better . 
She drove one man nearly wild with the pretty little treachery , and the other man abandoned her and came West to forget the trickery . 
Moon face was that man . 
The first mound that I encountered belonged to a goblin who was splashing in his tub . 
, and at many , many other geysers , hot holes , and springs . 
Some of them rumbled , some hissed , some went off spasmodically , and others lay dead still in sheets of sapphire and beryl . 
When they told me the tale I was filled with sympathy . 
Now I wish that I had soft soap and tried the experiment on some lonely little beast far away in the woods . 
It sounds so probable and so human . 
Yet he would be a bold man who would administer emetics to the Giantess . 
She is flat lipped , having no mouth she looks like a pool , fifty feet long and thirty wide , and there is no ornamentation about her . 
The congregation returned to the hotel to put down their impressions in diaries and note books , which they wrote up ostentatiously in the verandas . 
A batch of United States troopers came down the road and flung themselves across the country into their rough lines . 
The Melican cavalryman can ride , though he keeps his accoutrements pig fashion and his horse cow fashion . 
I was free of that camp in five minutes free to play with the heavy , lumpy carbines , have the saddles stripped , and punch the horses knowingly in the ribs . 
But he was slain , and a few of his tribe with him . 
There's no use in an Indian , anyway , concluded my friend . 
A couple of cow boys real cow boys jingled through the camp amid a shower of mild chaff . 
They were on their way to Cook City , I fancy , and I know that they never washed . 
But they were picturesque ruffians exceedingly , with long spurs , hooded stirrups , slouch hats , fur weather cloth over their knees , and pistol butts just easy to hand . 
The cow boy's goin' under before long , said my friend . 
Soon as the country's settled up he'll have to go . 
But he's mighty useful now . 
What would we do without the cow boy ? As how ? said I , and the camp laughed . 
He comes in winter to play poker at the military posts . 
We play poker a few . 
When he's lost his money we make him drunk and let him go . 
Sometimes we get the wrong man . 
And he told me a tale of an innocent cow boy who turned up , cleaned out , at an army post , and played poker for thirty six hours . 
But it was the post that was cleaned out when that long haired Caucasian removed himself , heavy with everybody's pay and declining the proffered liquor . 
Noaw , said the historian , I don't play with no cow boy unless he's a little bit drunk first . 
Ere I departed I gathered from more than one man the significant fact that up to one hundred yards he felt absolutely secure behind his revolver . 
In England , I understand , quoth the limber youth from the South , in England a man isn't allowed to play with no fire arms . 
He's got to be taught all that when he enlists . 
I didn't want much teaching how to shoot straight 'fore I served Uncle Sam . 
And that's just where it is . 
But you was talking about your Horse Guards now ? I explained briefly some peculiarities of equipment connected with our crackest crack cavalry . 
I grieve to say the camp roared . 
Take 'em over swampy ground . 
Let 'em run around a bit an' work the starch out of 'em , an' then , Almighty , if we wouldn't plug 'em at ease I'd eat their horses . 
There was a maiden a very little maiden who had just stepped out of one of James's novels . 
She owned a delightful mother and an equally delightful father a heavy eyed , slow voiced man of finance . 
The parents thought that their daughter wanted change . 
She lived in New Hampshire . 
We had met once or twice before in the park , and I had been amazed and amused at her critical commendation of the wonders that she saw . 
Not so those delightful people from New Hampshire . 
They were good enough to treat him it sounds almost incredible as a human being , possibly respectable , probably not in immediate need of financial assistance . 
Papa talked pleasantly and to the point . 
The little maiden strove valiantly with the accent of her birth and that of her rearing , and mamma smiled benignly in the background . 
Balance this with a story of a young English idiot I met mooning about inside his high collar , attended by a valet . 
He condescended to tell me that you can't be too careful who you talk to in these parts . 
And stalked on , fearing , I suppose , every minute for his social chastity . 
, for he comported himself after the manner of the head hunters and hunted of Assam who are at perpetual feud one with another . 
You will understand that these foolish stories are introduced in order to cover the fact that this pen cannot describe the glories of the Upper Geyser Basin . 
The evening I spent under the lee of the Castle Geyser , sitting on a log with some troopers and watching a baronial keep forty feet high spouting hot water . 
Then came soft , turfy forest that deadened the wheels , and two troopers on detachment duty stole noiselessly behind us . 
One was the Wrap up his Tail man , and they talked merrily while the half broken horses bucked about among the trees . 
But how intoxicating it was ! The old lady from Chicago ducked like an emancipated hen as she scuttled about the road , cramming pieces of rock into her reticule . 
She sent me fifty yards down to the hill side to pick up a piece of broken bottle which she insisted was moss agate . 
I've some o' that at home , an' they shine . 
Yes , you go get it , young man . 
Then we lay on the grass and laughed with sheer bliss of being alive . 
, one clear water , one red water . 
My newly washed handkerchief covered them all , and we two marvelled as children marvel . 
This evening we shall do the Grand Canyon of the Yellowstone , said the maiden . 
Together ? said I and she said , Yes . 
The sun was beginning to sink when we heard the roar of falling waters and came to a broad river along whose banks we ran . 
And then I might at a pinch describe the infernal regions , but not the other place . 
The Yellowstone River has occasion to run through a gorge about eight miles long . 
To get to the bottom of the gorge it makes two leaps , one of about one hundred and twenty and the other of three hundred feet . 
I investigated the upper or lesser fall , which is close to the hotel . 
Up to that time nothing particular happens to the Yellowstone its banks being only rocky , rather steep , and plentifully adorned with pines . 
At the falls it comes round a corner , green , solid , ribbed with a little foam , and not more than thirty yards wide . 
Then it goes over , still green , and rather more solid than before . 
And the river yells aloud but the cliffs do not allow the yells to escape . 
That inspection began with curiosity and finished in terror , for it seemed that the whole world was sliding in chrysolite from under my feet . 
I followed with the others round the corner to arrive at the brink of the canyon . 
We had to climb up a nearly perpendicular ascent to begin with , for the ground rises more than the river drops . 
Stately pine woods fringe either lip of the gorge , which is the gorge of the Yellowstone . 
You'll find all about it in the guide books . 
All that I can say is that without warning or preparation I looked into a gulf seventeen hundred feet deep , with eagles and fish hawks circling far below . 
The sides did not fall sheer , but were graven by time , and water , and air into monstrous heads of kings , dead chiefs men and women of the old time . 
So far below that no sound of its strife could reach us , the Yellowstone River ran a finger wide strip of jade green . 
The sunlight took those wondrous walls and gave fresh hues to those that nature had already laid there . 
Now I know what it is to sit enthroned amid the clouds of sunset as the spirits sit in Blake's pictures . 
Giddiness took away all sensation of touch or form , but the sense of blinding color remained . 
When I reached the mainland again I had sworn that I had been floating . 
The maid from New Hampshire said no word for a very long time . 
Then she quoted poetry , which was perhaps the best thing she could have done . 
No , only the Injians , said he , unmoved and the maiden and I laughed . 
Inspiration is fleeting , beauty is vain , and the power of the mind for wonder limited . 
I've been down there , said Tom , that evening . 
It's easy to get down if you're careful just sit an' slide but getting up is worse . 
An' I found down below there two stones just marked with a picture of the canyon . 
I wouldn't sell these rocks not for fifteen dollars . 
And papa and I crawled down to the Yellowstone just above the first little fall to wet a line for good luck . 
Then out and away to Livingstone once more . 
The maiden from New Hampshire disappeared , papa and mamma with her . 
Disappeared , too , the old lady from Chicago , and the others . 
V Chicago I know thy cunning and thy greed , Thy hard high lust and wilful deed , And all thy glory loves to tell Of specious gifts material . 
I HAVE struck a city a real city and they call it Chicago . 
The other places do not count . 
San Francisco was a pleasure resort as well as a city , and Salt Lake was a phenomenon . 
This place is the first American city I have encountered . 
It holds rather more than a million of people with bodies , and stands on the same sort of soil as Calcutta . 
Having seen it , I urgently desire never to see it again . 
It is inhabited by savages . 
Its water is the water of the Hooghly , and its air is dirt . 
Also it says that it is the boss town of America . 
I do not believe that it has anything to do with this country . 
Other barbarians charged in and out of this inferno with letters and telegrams in their hands , and yet others shouted at each other . 
A man who had drunk quite as much as was good for him told me that this was the finest hotel in the finest city on God Almighty's earth . 
By the way , when an American wishes to indicate the next country or state , he says , God A'mighty's earth . 
This prevents discussion and flatters his vanity . 
Then I went out into the streets , which are long and flat and without end . 
And verily it is not a good thing to live in the East for any length of time . 
Your ideas grow to clash with those held by every right thinking man . 
I looked down interminable vistas flanked with nine , ten , and fifteen storied houses , and crowded with men and women , and the show impressed me with a great horror . 
Except in London and I have forgotten what London was like I had never seen so many white people together , and never such a collection of miserables . 
There was no color in the street and no beauty only a maze of wire ropes overhead and dirty stone flagging under foot . 
A cab driver volunteered to show me the glory of the town for so much an hour , and with him I wandered far . 
He said that Chicago was a live town , and that all the creatures hurrying by me were engaged in business . 
That is to say they were trying to make some money that they might not die through lack of food to put into their bellies . 
He took me to canals as black as ink , and filled with un told abominations , and bid me watch the stream of traffic across the bridges . 
He then took me into a saloon , and while I drank made me note that the floor was covered with coins sunk in cement . 
A Hottentot would not have been guilty of this sort of barbarism . 
The coins made an effect pretty enough , but the man who put them there had no thought of beauty , and , therefore , he was a savage . 
I had sooner watch famine relief than the white man engaged in what he calls legitimate competition . 
The other makes me ill . 
And the cabman said that these things were the proof of progress , and by that I knew he had been reading his newspaper , as every intelligent American should . 
The papers tell their clientele in language fitted to their comprehension that the snarling together of telegraph wires , the heaving up of houses , and the making of money is progress . 
It was like listening to a child babbling of its hoard of shells . 
It was like watching a fool playing with buttons . 
But I was expected to do more than listen or watch . 
He demanded that I should admire and the utmost that I could say was Are these things so ? Then I am very sorry for you . 
That made him angry , and he said that insular envy made me unresponsive . 
So , you see , I could not make him understand . 
Had I met Adam then , I should have been sorry for him . 
Consequently , I am sorry in rather more than a million different ways . 
In the East bread comes naturally , even to the poorest , by a little scratching or the gift of a friend not quite so poor . 
In less favored countries one is apt to forget . 
Then I went to bed . 
And that was on a Saturday night . 
Sunday brought me the queerest experiences of all a revelation of barbarism complete . 
I found a place that was officially described as a church . 
It was a circus really , but that the worshippers did not know . 
There were flowers all about the building , which was fitted up with plush and stained oak and much luxury , including twisted brass candlesticks of severest Gothic design . 
But , unlike the newspaper reporter , he never allowed his listeners to forget that he , and not He , was the centre of attraction . 
, and set in the centre of it a loud voiced , argumentative , very shrewd creation that he called God . 
One sentence at this point caught my delighted ear . 
It was apropos of some question of the Judgment , and ran No ! I tell you God doesn't do business that way . 
He was giving them a deity whom they could comprehend , and a gold and jewelled heaven in which they could take a natural interest . 
He interlarded his performance with the slang of the streets , the counter , and the exchange , and he said that religion ought to enter into daily life . 
Consequently , I presume he introduced it as daily life his own and the life of his friends . 
Then I escaped before the blessing , desiring no benediction at such hands . 
But the persons who listened seemed to enjoy themselves , and I understood that I had met with a popular preacher . 
Later on , when I had perused the sermons of a gentleman called Talmage and some others , I perceived that I had been listening to a very mild specimen . 
They repeated their statements again and again . 
One of them took me to their City Hall and Board of Trade works , and pointed it out with pride . 
It was very ugly , but very big , and the streets in front of it were narrow and unclean . 
When I saw the faces of the men who did business in that building , I felt that there had been a mistake in their billeting . 
By the way , 'tis a consolation to feel that I am not writing to an English audience . 
They called it humor , but it sounded like something quite different . 
That was only the first trouble . 
The second lay in the tone of the productions . 
I am sternly forbidden to believe that the paper educates the public . 
Then I am compelled to believe that the public educate the paper yet suicides on the press are rare . 
I had chanced to pay about six shillings for a travelling cap worth eighteen pence , and he made of the fact a text for a sermon . 
He said that this was a rich country , and that the people liked to pay two hundred per cent , on the value of a thing . 
Thus an imported hat would , with duty , cost two guineas . 
The American manufacturer would make a hat for seventeen shillings , and sell it for one pound fifteen . 
In these things , he said , lay the greatness of America and the effeteness of England . 
To my weak intellect this seemed rather like juggling with counters . 
Everything that I have yet purchased costs about twice as much as it would in England , and when native made is of inferior quality . 
Moreover , since these lines were first thought of , I have visited a gentleman who owned a factory which used to produce things . 
He owned the factory still . 
Not a man was in it , but he was drawing a handsome income from a syndicate of firms for keeping it closed , in order that it might not produce things . 
When the country fills up to a decently populated level a few million people who are not aliens will be smitten with the same sort of blindness . 
But my friend's assertion somehow thoroughly suited the grotesque ferocity of Chicago . 
See now and judge ! In the village of Isser Jang , on the road to Montgomery , there be four Changar women who winnow corn some seventy bushels a year . 
Beyond their hut lives Purun Dass , the money lender , who on good security lends as much as five thousand rupees in a year . 
Scores of daily papers do work which Hukm Chund and the barber and the midwife perform , with due regard for public opinion , in the village of Isser Jang . 
So far as manufactories go , the difference between Chicago on the lake , and Isser Jang on the Montgomery road , is one of degree only , and not of kind . 
As far as the understanding of the uses of life goes , Isser Jang , for all its seasonal cholers , has the advantage over Chicago . 
The East is not the West , and these men must continue to deal with the machinery of life , and to call it progress . 
Their very preachers dare not rebuke them . 
They gloss over the hunting for money and the thrice sharpened bitterness of Adam's curse , by saying that such things dower a man with a larger range of thoughts and higher aspirations . 
They say every Englishman goes to the Chicago stock yards . 
You shall find them about six miles from the city and once having seen them , you will never forget the sight . 
These viaducts are two storied . 
On the upper story tramp the doomed cattle , stolidly for the most part . 
On the lower , with a scuffling of sharp hoofs and multitudinous yells , run the pigs , the same end being appointed for each . 
All they know is that a man on horseback causes their next door neighbors to move by means of a whip . 
Certain bars and fences are unshipped , and behold ! that crowd have gone up the mouth of a sloping tunnel and return no more . 
It is different with the pigs . 
They shriek back the news of the exodus to their friends , and a hundred pens skirl responsive . 
It was to the pigs I first addressed myself . 
A pleasant smell of brine warned me of what was coming . 
That room was the mortuary chamber where the pigs lay for a little while in state ere they began their progress through such passages as kings may sometimes travel . 
When I leaped aside , the floor was slippery under me . 
Also there was a flavor of farm yard in my nostrils and the shouting of a multitude in my ears . 
But there was no joy in that shouting . 
Twelve men stood in two lines six a side . 
Between them and overhead ran the railway of death that had nearly shunted me through the window . 
Each man carried a knife , the sleeves of his shirt were cut off at the elbows , and from bosom to heel he was blood red . 
Beyond this perspective was a column of steam , and beyond that was where I worked my awe struck way , unwilling to touch beam or wall . 
The atmosphere was stifling as a night in the rains by reason of the steam and the crowd . 
I climbed to the beginning of things and , perched upon a narrow beam , overlooked very nearly all the pigs ever bred in Wisconsin . 
They had just been shot out of the mouth of the viaduct and huddled together in a large pen . 
Preponderance of individuality was ever a bar to foreign travel . 
That pig could have been in case to visit you in India had he not parted with some of his most cherished notions . 
The dissecting part impressed me not so much as the slaying . 
They were so excessively alive , these pigs . 
But a pig is only the unclean animal the forbidden of the prophet . 
VI The American Army I SHOULD very much like to deliver a dissertation on the American army and the possibilities of its extension . 
You see , it is such a beautiful little army , and the dear people don't quite understand what to do with it . 
The theory is that it is an instructional nucleus round which the militia of the country will rally , and from which they will get a stiffening in time of danger . 
This is real wisdom , be cause the American army , as at present constituted , is made up of Twenty five regiments infantry , ten companies each . 
Ten regiments cavalry , twelve companies each . 
Five regiments artillery , twelve companies each . 
Now there is a notion in the air to reorganize the service on these lines Eighteen regiments infantry at four battalions , four companies each third battalion , skeleton fourth on paper . 
Eight regiments cavalry at four battalions , four troops each third battalion , skeleton fourth on paper . 
Five regiments artillery at four battalions , four companies each third battalion , skeleton fourth on paper . 
Observe the beauty of this business . 
The third battalion will have its officers , but no men the fourth will probably have a rendezvous and some equipment . 
It is not contemplated to give it anything more definite at present . 
Yet the authorities persist in regarding an external war as a thing to be seriously considered . 
The Power that would disembark troops on American soil would be capable of heaving a shovelful of mud into the Atlantic in the hope of filling it up . 
Consequently , the authorities are fascinated with the idea of the sliding scale or concertina army . 
The American army is a beautiful little army . 
The mischief of it is that West Point seems to be created for the purpose of spreading a general knowledge of military matters among the people . 
The bond between the States is of an amazing tenuity . 
They do not need knowledge of their own military strength to back their genial lawlessness . 
It is too tiny to be a political power . 
The immortal wreck of the Grand Army of the Republic is a political power of the largest and most unblushing description . 
It ought not to help to lay the foundations of an amateur military power that is blind and irresponsible . 
Twelve hours previously I had entered into a new world where , in conversation , every one was either a Mormon or a Gentile . 
All the beauty of the valley could not make me forget it . 
And the valley is very fair . 
There are the makings of a very fine creed about Mormonism . 
To begin with , the Church is rather more absolute than that of Rome . 
The tawdry mysticism and the borrowing from Freemasonry serve the low caste Swede and Dane , the Welshman and the Cornish cotter , just as well as a highly organized heaven . 
Then I went about the streets and peeped into people's front windows , and the decorations upon the tables were after the manner of the year . 
Main Street was full of country folk from the desert , come in to trade with the Zion Mercantile Co operative Institute . 
The Church , I fancy , looks after the finances of this thing , and it consequently pays good dividends . 
The faces of the women were not lovely . 
The women wore hideous garments , and the men appeared to be tied up with strings . 
They would market all that afternoon , and on Sunday go to the praying place . 
I tried to talk to a few of them , but they spoke strange tongues , and stared and behaved like cows . 
If we 'have our own institutions , that ain't no reason why people should come 'ere and stare at us , his it ? The dropped h betrayed her . 
And when did you leave England ? I said . 
I am Dorset , she said . 
The Mormon agent was very good to us , and we was very poor . 
Now we're better off my father , an' mother , an' me . 
Then you like the State ? She misunderstood at first . 
Oh , I ain't livin' in the state of polygamy . 
I like where I am . 
I've got things o' my own and some land . 
But I suppose you will Not me . 
I ain't like them Swedes an' Danes . 
I ain't got nothin' to say for or against polygamy . 
It's the elders' business , an' between you an' me , I don't think it's going on much longer . 
You'll 'ear them in the 'ouse to morrer talkin' as if it was spreadin' all over America . 
The Swedes , they think it his . 
But you've got your land all right ? Oh , yes we've got our land , an' we never say aught against polygamy , o' course father , an' mother , an' me . 
On a table land overlooking all the city stands the United States garrison of infantry and artillery . 
But to day , so far from killing openly or secretly , or burning Gentile farms , it is all the Mormon dare do to feebly try to boycott the interloper . 
His journals preach defiance to the United States Government , and in the Tabernacle on a Sunday the preachers follow suit . 
When I went there , the place was full of people who would have been much better for a washing . 
I fancy that they had heard all this before so many times it produced no impression whatever , even as the sublimest mysteries of another faith lose salt through constant iteration . 
They breathed heavily through their noses , and stared straight in front of them impassive as flat fish . 
VII America's Defenceless Coasts JUST suppose that America were twenty days distant from England . 
I can lay my hand upon my sacred heart and affirm that up to to day I have never taken three consecutive trips by rail without being delayed by an accident . 
That it was an accident to another train makes no difference . 
My own turn may come next . 
I was scarcely even interested . 
When an American train starts on time I begin to anticipate disaster a visitation for such good luck , you understand . 
Buffalo is a large village of a quarter of a million inhabitants , situated on the seashore , which is falsely called Lake Erie . 
It is a peaceful place , and more like an English county town than most of its friends . 
Once clear of the main business streets , you launch upon miles and miles of asphalted roads running between cottages and cut stone residences of those who have money and peace . 
All the Eastern cities own this fringe of elegance , but except in Chicago nowhere is the fringe deeper or more heavily widened than in Buffalo . 
His shops sell him delightful household fitments at very moderate rates , and he is encompassed with all manner of labor saving appliances . 
This does not prevent his wife and his daughter working themselves to death over household drudgery but the intention is good . 
does not take a deep interest in what they call politics , and why he is so vaguely and generally proud of the country that enables him to be so comfortable . 
It was when my gigantic intellect was grappling with this question that I confirmed a discovery half made in the West . 
The natives of most classes marry young absurdly young . 
One of my informants not the twenty two year old husband I met on Lake Chautauqua said that from twenty to twenty four was about the usual time for this folly . 
And when I asked whether the practice was confined to the constitutionally improvident classes , he said No very quickly . 
He said it was a general custom , and nobody saw anything wrong with it . 
I guess , perhaps , very early marriage may account for a good deal of the divorce , said he , reflectively . 
Their marriages and their divorces only concern these people and neither I travelling , nor you , who may come after , have any right to make rude remarks about them . 
Out in the West , though , they marry , boys and girls , from sixteen upward , and I have met more than one bride of fifteen husband aged twenty . 
In the old days , before the railway ran into the city , all the business quarters fringed the lake shore where the traffic was largest . 
To the lake front comes wheat from Chicago , lumber , coal , and ore , and a large trade in cheap excursionists . 
It was my felicity to catch a grain steamer and an elevator emptying that same steamer . 
The steamer might have been two thousand tons burden . 
She was laden with wheat in bulk from stem to stern , thirteen feet deep , lay the clean , red wheat . 
There was no twenty five per cent dirt admixture about it at all . 
It was wheat , fit for the grindstones as it lay . 
They manoeuvred the fore hatch of that steamer directly under an elevator a house of red tin a hundred and fifty feet high . 
Then they let down into that fore hatch a trunk as if it had been the trunk of an elephant , but stiff , because it was a pipe of iron champed wood . 
And the trunk had a steel shod nose to it , and contained an endless chain of steel buckets . 
In this manner do they handle wheat at Buffalo . 
On one side of the elevator is the steamer , on the other the railway track and the wheat is loaded into the cars in bulk . 
Wah ! wah ! God is great , and I do not think He ever intended Gar Sahai or Luckman Narain to supply England with her wheat . 
A man in the train said to me We kin feed all the earth , jest as easily as we kin whip all the earth . 
Now the second statement is as false as the first is true . 
One of these days the respectable Republic will find this out . 
It is perfectly impossible to go to war with these people , whatever they may do . 
Everybody knows that , and no one better than the American . 
The big , fat Republic that is afraid of nothing , because nothing up to the present date has happened to make her afraid , is as unprotected as a jelly fish . 
Not internally , of course it would be madness for any Power to throw men into America they would die but as far as regards coast defence . 
would wipe out any or every town from San Francisco to Long Branch and three first class ironclads would account for New York , Bartholdi's Statue and all . 
'Twould be Pay up or go up round the entire coast of the United States . 
To this furiously answers the patriotic American We should not pay . 
We should invent a Columbiad in Pittsburg or or anywhere else , and blow any outsider into h l . 
They might lay waste their cities and retire inland , for they can subsist entirely on their own produce . 
Meantime , in a war waged the only way it could be waged by an unscrupulous Power , their coast cities and their dock yards would be ashes . 
They could construct their navy inland if they liked , but you could never bring a ship down to the water ways , as they stand now . 
They could not , with an ordinary water patrol , despatch one regiment of men six miles across the seas . 
There would be about five million excessively angry , armed men pent up within American limits . 
These men would require ships to get themselves afloat . 
The country has no such ships , and until the ships were built New York need not be allowed a single wheeled carriage within her limits . 
Behold now the glorious condition of this Republic which has no fear . 
No man catches a snake by the tail , because the creature will sting but you can build a fire around a snake that will make it squirm . 
The country is supposed to be building a navy now . 
When the ships are completed her alliance will be worth having if the alliance of any republic can be relied upon . 
For the next three years she can be hurt , and badly hurt . 
Pity it is that she is of our own blood , looking at the matter from a Pindarris point of view . 
These sinful reflections were prompted by the sight of the beautifully unprotected condition of Buffalo a city that could be made to pay up five million dollars without feeling it . 
There are her companies of infantry in a sort of port there . 
When one hears so much of the nation that can whip the earth , it is , to say the least of it , surprising to find her so temptingly spankable . 
In his own simple phraseology Not by a darned sight . 
Ransom at long range will be about the size of it cash or crash . 
Let us revisit calmer scenes . 
In the heart of Buffalo there stands a magnificent building which the population do innocently style a music hall . 
Everybody comes here of evenings to sit around little tables and listen to a first class orchestra . 
The place is something like the Gaiety Theatre at Simla , enlarged twenty times . 
The Light Brigade of Buffalo occupy the boxes and the stage , as it was at Simla in the days of old , and the others sit in the parquet . 
I grieve to say I laughed , because when an American wishes to be correct he sets himself to imitate the Englishman . 
This he does vilely , and earns not only the contempt of his brethren , but the amused scorn of the Briton . 
I saw one man who was pointed out to me as being the glass of fashion hereabouts . 
He was aggressively English in his get up . 
Certain young men of the more idiotic sort launch into dog carts and raiment of English cut , and here in Buffalo they play polo at four in the afternoon . 
I saw three youths come down to the polo ground faultlessly attired for the game and mounted on their best ponies . 
Expecting a game , I lingered but I was mistaken . 
These three shining ones with the very new yellow hide boots and the red silk sashes had assembled themselves for the purpose of knocking the ball about . 
They smote with great solemnity up and down the grounds , while the little boys looked on . 
When they trotted , which was not seldom , they rose and sunk in their stirrups with a conscientiousness that cried out Riding school ! from afar . 
Other young men in the park were riding after the English manner , in neatly cut riding trousers and light saddles . 
The other sight of the evening was a horror . 
The little tragedy played itself out at a neighboring table where two very young men and two very young women were sitting . 
It did not strike me till far into the evening that the pimply young reprobates were making the girls drunk . 
They gave them red wine and then white , and the voices rose slightly with the maidens' cheek flushes . 
I watched , wishing to stay , and the youths drank till their speech thickened and their eye balls grew watery . 
It was sickening to see , because I knew what was going to happen . 
My friend eyed the group , and said Maybe they're children of respectable people . 
I hardly think , though , they'd be allowed out without any better escort than these boys . 
And yet the place is a place where every one comes , as you see . 
They may be Little Immoralities in which case they wouldn't be so hopelessly overcome with two glasses of wine . 
They may be Whatever they were they got indubitably drunk there in that lovely hall , surrounded by the best of Buffalo society . 
One could do nothing except invoke the judgment of Heaven on the two boys , themselves half sick with liquor . 
At the close of the performance the quieter maiden laughed vacantly and protested she couldn't keep her feet . 
And they were all four children of sixteen and seventeen . 
Then , recanting previous opinions , I became a prohibitionist . 
I understand now why the preachers rage against drink . 
If liquor is worth drinking , it is worth taking a little trouble to come at such trouble as a man will undergo to compass his own desires . 
It is not good that we should let it lie before the eyes of children , and I have been a fool in writing to the contrary . 
Very sorry for myself , I sought a hotel , and found in the hall a reporter who wished to know what I thought of the country . 
Thus I But you talk about interviewing people whether they like it or not . 
Have you no bounds beyond which even your indecent curiosity must not go ? HE I haven't struck 'em yet . 
What do you think of interviewing a widow two hours after her husband's death , to get her version of his life ? I I think that is the work of a ghoul . 
Must the people have no privacy ? HE There is no domestic privacy in America . 
If there was , what the deuce would the papers do ? See here . 
Some time ago I had an assignment to write up the floral tributes when a prominent citizen had died . 
I Translate , please I do not understand your pagan rites and ceremonies . 
HE I was ordered by the office to describe the flowers , and wreaths , and so on , that had been sent to a dead man's funeral . 
Well , I went to the house . 
There was no one there to stop me , so I yanked the tinkler pulled the bell and drifted into the room where the corpse lay all among the roses and smilax . 
I whipped out my note book and pawed around among the floral tributes , turn ing up the tickets on the wreaths and seeing who had sent them . 
I'm very sorry , miss , I said , to intrude on the privacy of your grief . 
Trust me , I shall make it as little painful as possible . 
I But by what conceivable right did you outrage HE Hold your horses . 
Well , she didn't want me in the house at all , and between her sobs fairly waved me away . 
I had half the tributes described , though , and the balance I did partly on the steps when the stiff 'un came out , and partly in the church . 
The preacher gave the sermon . 
I skipped about among the floral tributes while he was talking . 
I could have made no excuse if I had gone back to the office and said that a pretty girl's sobs had stopped me obeying orders . 
I had to do it . 
Do you want to know ? HE Of course . 
